But, with Glacier, this is not enough. To see, to realize in full its beauty, still leaves
one puzzled. One of the peculiarities of the landscape, due perhaps to its differences, is
its insistence upon explanation. How came this prehistoric plain so etched with cirques and
valleys as to leave standing only worm-like crests, knife-edged walls, amphitheatres, and isolated
peaks? The answer is the story of a romantic episode in the absorbing history of America's making.

Somewhere between forty and six hundred million years ago, according to the degree of conservatism
controlling the geologist who does the calculating, these lofty mountains were deposited in
the shape of muddy sediments on the bottom of shallow fresh-water lakes, whose waves left many
ripple marks upon the soft muds of its shores, fragments of which, hardened now to shale, are
frequently found by tourists. So ancient was the period that these deposits lay next above
the primal Archean rocks, and marked, therefore, almost the beginning of accepted geological
history. Life was then so nearly at its beginnings that the forms which Walcott found in the
Siyeh limestone were not at first fully accepted as organic.

Thereafter, during a time so long that none may even estimate it, certainly for many millions
of years, the history of the region leaves traces of no extraordinary change. It sank possibly
thousands of feet beneath the fresh waters tributary to the sea which once swept from the Gulf
of Mexico to the Arctic, and accumulated there sediments which to-day are scenic limestones
and shales, and doubtless other sediments above these which have wholly passed away. It may
have alternated above and below water-level many times, as our southwest has done. Eventually,
under earth-pressures concerning whose cause many theories have lived and died, it rose to
remain until our times.

Then, millions of years ago, but still recently as compared with the whole vast lapse we are
considering, came the changes which seem dramatic to us as we look back upon them accomplished;
but which came to pass so slowly that no man, had man then lived, could have noticed a single
step of progress in the course of a long life. Under earth-pressures the skin buckled and the
Rocky Mountains rose. At some stage of this process the range cracked along its crest from
what is now Marias Pass to a point just over the Canadian border, and, a couple of hundred
miles farther north, from the neighborhood of Banff to the northern end of the Canadian Rockies.

Then the great overthrust followed. Side-pressures of inconceivable power forced upward the
western edge of this crack, including the entire crust from the Algonkian strata up, and thrust
it over the eastern edge. During the overthrusting, which may have taken a million years, and
during the millions of years since, the frosts have chiselled open and the rains have washed
away all the overthrust strata, the accumulations of the geological ages from Algonkian times
down, except only that one bottom layer. This alone remained for the three ice invasions of
the Glacial Age to carve into the extraordinary area which is called to-day the Glacier National
Park.

The Lewis Overthrust, so called because it happened to the Lewis Range, is ten to fifteen miles
wide. The eastern boundary of the park roughly defines its limit of progress. Its signs are
plain to the eye taught to perceive them. The yellow mountains on the eastern edge near the
gateway to Lake McDermott lie on top of the Blackfeet Indian Reservation, whose surface is
many millions of years younger and quite different in coloring. Similarly, Chief Mountain,
at the entrance of the Belly River Valley, owes much of its remarkable distinction to the incompatibility
of its form and color with the prairie upon which it lies but out of which it seems to burst.
The bottom of McDermott Falls at Many Glacier Hotel is plainly a younger rock than the colored
Algonkian limestones which form its brink.

Perhaps thousands of years after the overthrust was accomplished another tremendous faulting
still further modified the landscape of to-day. The overthrust edge cracked lengthwise, this
time west of the continental divide all the way from the Canadian line southward nearly to
Marias Pass. The edge of the strata west of this crack sank perhaps many thousands of feet,
leaving great precipices on the west side of the divide similar to those on the east side.
There was this great difference, however, in what followed: the elongated gulf or ditch thus
formed became filled with the deposits of later geologic periods.

This whole process, which also was very slow in movement, is important in explaining the conformation
and scenic peculiarities of the west side of the park, which, as the tourist sees it to-day,
is remarkably different from those of the east side. Here, the great limestone ranges, glaciered,
cirqued, and precipiced as on the east side, suddenly give place to broad, undulating plains
which constitute practically the whole of the great west side from the base of the mountains
on the east to the valley of the Flathead which forms the park's western boundary. These plains
are grown thickly with splendid forests. Cross ranges, largely glacier-built, stretch west
from the high mountains, subsiding rapidly; and between these ranges lie long winding lakes,
forest-grown to their edges, which carry the western drainage of the continental divide through
outlet streams into the Flathead.

The inconceivable lapse of time covered in these titanic operations of Nature and their excessive
slowness of progress rob them of much of their dramatic quality. Perhaps an inch of distance
was an extraordinary advance for the Lewis Overthrust to make in any ordinary year, and doubtless
there were lapses of centuries when no measurable advance was made. Yet sometimes sudden settlings,
accompanied by more or less extended earthquakes, must have visibly altered local landscapes.

Were it possible, by some such mental foreshortening as that by which the wizards of the screen
compress a life into a minute, for imagination to hasten this progress into the compass of
a few hours, how overwhelming would be the spectacle! How tremendously would loom this advancing
edge, which at first we may conceive as having enormous thickness! How it must have cracked,
crumbled, and fallen in frequent titanic crashes as it moved forward. It does not need the
imagination of Doré to picture this advance, thus hastened in fancy, grim, relentless as death,
its enormous towering head lost in eternal snows, its feet shaken by earthquakes, accumulating
giant glaciers only to crush them into powder; resting, then pushing forward in slow, smashing,
reverberating shoves. How the accumulations of all periods may be imagined crashing together
into the depths! Silurian gastropods, strange Devonian fishes, enormous Triassic reptiles,
the rich and varied shells of the Jurassic, the dinosaurs and primitive birds of Cretaceous,
the little early horses of Eocene, and Miocene's camels and mastodons mingling their fossil
remnants in a democracy of ruin to defy the eternal ages!

It all happened, but unfortunately for a romantic conception, it did not happen with dramatic
speed. Hundreds, thousands, sometimes millions of years intervened between the greater stages
of progress which, with intervening lesser stages, merged into a seldom-broken quietude such
as that which impresses to-day's visitor to the mountain-tops of Glacier National Park. And
who can say that the landscape which to-day's visitor, with the inborn arrogance of man, looks
upon as the thing which the ages have completed for his pleasure, may not merely represent
a minor stage in a progress still more terrible?

The grist of Creation's past milling has disappeared. The waters of heaven, collected and stored
in snow-fields and glaciers to be released in seasonal torrents, have washed it all away. Not
a sign remains to-day save here and there perhaps a fragment of Cretaceous coal. All has been
ground to powder and carried off by flood and stream to enrich the soils and upbuild later
strata in the drainage basins of the Saskatchewan, the Columbia, and the Mississippi.

It is probable that little remained but the Algonkian shales and limestones when the Ice Age
sent southward the first of its three great invasions. Doubtless already there were glaciers
there of sorts, but the lowering temperatures which accompanied the ice-sheets developed local
glaciers so great of size that only a few mountain-tops were left exposed. It was then that
these extraordinary cirques were carved. There were three such periods during the Ice Age,
between which and after which stream erosion resumed its untiring sway. The story of the ice
is written high upon Glacier's walls and far out on the eastern plains.

IV

Into this wonderland the visitor enters by one of two roads. Either he leaves the railroad
at Glacier Park on the east side of the continental divide or at Belton on the west side. In
either event he can cross to the other side only afoot or on horseback over passes. The usual
way in is through Glacier Park. There is a large hotel at the station from which automobile-stages
run northward to chalets at Two Medicine Lake, the Cut Bank Valley, and St. Mary Lake, and
to the Many Glacier Hotel and chalets at Lake McDermott. A road also reaches Lake McDermott
from Canada by way of Babb, and Canadian visitors can reach the trails at the head of Waterton
Lake by boat from their own Waterton Lakes Park. Those entering at Belton, where the park headquarters
are located, find chalets at the railroad-station and an excellent hotel near the head of Lake
McDonald. There is also a comfortable chalet close to the Sperry Glacier.

To see Glacier as thoroughly as Glacier deserves and to draw freely on its abundant resources
of pleasure and inspiration, one must travel the trails and pitch his tent where day's end
brings him. But that does not mean that Glacier cannot be seen and enjoyed by those to whom
comfortable hotel accommodations are a necessity, or even by those who find trail-travelling
impossible.

Visitors, therefore, fall into three general classes, all of whom may study scenery which quite
fully covers the range of Glacier's natural phenomena and peculiar beauty. The largest of these
classes consists of those who can travel, or think they can travel, only in vehicles, and can
find satisfactory accommodations only in good hotels. The intermediate class includes those
who can, at a pinch, ride ten or twelve miles on comfortably saddled horses which walk the
trails at two or three miles an hour, and who do not object to the somewhat primitive but thoroughly
comfortable overnight accommodations of the chalets. Finally comes the small class, which constantly
will increase, of those who have the time and inclination to leave the beaten path with tent
and camping outfit for the splendid wilderness and the places of supreme magnificence which
are only for those who seek.

The man, then, whose tendency to gout, let us say, forbids him ride a horse or walk more than
a couple of easy miles a day may, nevertheless, miss nothing of Glacier's meaning and magnificence
provided he takes the trouble to understand. But he must take the trouble; he must comprehend
the few examples that he sees; this is his penalty for refusing the rich experience of the
trail, which, out of its very fulness, drives meaning home with little mental effort. His knowledge
must be got from six places only which may be reached by vehicle, at least three of which,
however, may be included among the world's great scenic places. He can find at Two Medicine,
St. Mary, and McDermott superb examples of Glacier's principal scenic elements.

Entering at Glacier Park, he will have seen the range from the plains, an important beginning;
already, approaching from the east, he has watched it grow wonderfully on the horizon. So suddenly
do these painted mountains spring from the grassy plain that it is a relief to recognize in
them the advance guard of the Lewis Overthrust, vast fragments of the upheavals of the depths
pushed eastward by the centuries to their final resting-places upon the surface of the prairie.
From the hotel porches they glow gray and yellow and purple and rose and pink, according to
the natural coloring of their parts and the will of the sun--a splendid ever-changing spectacle.

THE TWO MEDICINE COUNTRY

An hour's automobile-ride from Glacier Park Hotel will enable our traveller to penetrate the
range at a point of supreme beauty and stand beside a chalet at the foot of Two Medicine Lake.
He will face what appears to be a circular lake in a densely forested valley from whose shore
rises a view of mountains which will take his breath. In the near centre stands a cone of enormous
size and magnificence--Mount Rockwell--faintly blue, mistily golden, richly purple, dull silver,
or red and gray, according to the favor of the hour and the sky. Upon its left and somewhat
back rises a smaller similar cone, flatter but quite as perfectly proportioned, known as Grizzly
Mountain, and upon its right less regular masses. In the background, connecting all, are more
distant mountains flecked with snow, the continental divide. Towering mountains close upon
him upon both sides, that upon his right a celebrity in red argillite known as Rising Wolf.
He sees all this from a beach of many-colored pebbles.

Few casual visitors have more than a midday view of Two Medicine Lake, for the stage returns
in the afternoon. The glory of the sunset and the wonder before sunrise are for the few who
stay over at the chalet. The lover of the exquisite cannot do better, for, though beyond lie
scenes surpassing this in the qualities which bring to the lips the shout of joy, I am convinced
that nothing elsewhere equals the Two Medicine canvas in the perfection of delicacy. It is
the Meissonier of Glacier.

Nor can the student of Nature's processes afford to miss the study of Two Medicine's marvellously
complete and balanced system of cirques and valleys--though this of course is not for the rheumatic
traveller but for him who fears not horse and tent. Such an explorer will find thrills with
every passing hour. Giant Mount Rockwell will produce one when a sideview shows that its apparent
cone is merely the smaller eastern end of a ridge two miles long which culminates in a towering
summit on the divide; Pumpelly Piller, with the proportions of a monument when seen from near
the lake, becomes, seen sideways, another long and exceedingly beautiful ridge; striking examples,
these, of the leavings of converging glaciers of old. Two Medicine Lake proves to be long and
narrow, the chalet view being the long way, and Upper Two Medicine Lake proves to be an emerald-encircled
pearl in a silvery-gray setting. The climax of such a several days' trip is a night among the
coyotes at the head of the main valley and a morning upon Dawson Pass overlooking the indescribable
tangle of peak, precipice, and canyon lying west of the continental divide.

Taken as a whole, the Two Medicine drainage-basin is an epitome of Glacier in miniature. To
those entering the park on the east side and seeing it first it becomes an admirable introduction
to the greater park. To those who have entered on the west side and finish here it is an admirable
farewell review, especially as its final picture sounds the note of scenic perfection. Were
there nothing else of Glacier, this spot would become in time itself a world celebrity. Incidentally,
exceedingly lively Eastern brook-trout will afford an interesting hour to one who floats a
fly down the short stream into the lakelet at the foot of Two Medicine Lake not far below the
chalet. There are also fish below Trick Falls.

THE SPECTACLE OF ST. MARY

St. Mary Lake, similarly situated in the outlet valley of a much greater group of cirques north
of Two Medicine, offers a picture as similar in kind as two canvases are similar which have
been painted by the same hand; but they widely differ in composition and magnificence; Two
Medicine's preciousness yields to St. Mary's elemental grandeur. The steamer which brings our
rheumatic traveller from the motor-stage at the foot of the lake lands him at the upper chalet
group, appropriately Swiss, which finds vantage on a rocky promontory for the view of the divide.
Gigantic mountains of deep-red argillite, grotesquely carved, close in the sides, and with
lake and sky wonderfully frame the amazing central picture of pointed pyramids, snow-fields,
hanging glaciers, and silvery ridges merging into sky. Seen on the way into Glacier, St. Mary
is a prophecy which will not be fulfilled elsewhere in charm though often far exceeded in degree.
Seen leaving Glacier, it combines with surpassing novelty scenic elements whose possibilities
of further gorgeous combination the trip through the park has seemed to exhaust.

The St. Mary picture is impossible to describe. Its colors vary with the hours and the atmosphere's
changing conditions. It is silver, golden, mauve, blue, lemon, misty white, and red by turn.
It is seen clearly in the morning with the sun behind you. Afternoons and sunsets offer theatrical
effects, often baffling, always lovely and different. Pointed Fusillade and peaked Reynolds
Mountains often lose their tops in lowering mists. So, often, does Going-to-the-Sun Mountain
in the near-by right foreground. So, not so often, does keel-shaped Citadel Mountain on the
near-by left; also, at times, majestic Little Chief, he of lofty mien and snow-dashed crown,
and stolid Red Eagle, whose gigantic reflection reddens a mile of waters. It is these close-up
monsters even more than the colorful ghosts of the Western horizon which stamp St. Mary's personality.

From the porches of the chalets and the deck of the steamer in its evening tour of the lake-end
the traveller will note the enormous size of those upper valleys which once combined their
glaciers as now they do their streams. He will guess that the glacier which once swept through
the deep gorge in whose bottom now lies St. Mary Lake was several thousand feet in thickness.
He will long to examine those upper valleys and reproduce in imagination the amazing spectacle
of long ago. But they are not for him. That vision is reserved for those who ride the trails.

THE SCENIC CLIMAX OF THE SWIFTCURRENT

Again passing north, the automobile-stage reaches road's end at McDermott Lake, the fan-handle
of the Swiftcurrent drainage-basin. Overlooking a magnificent part of each of its contributing
valleys, the lake, itself supremely beautiful, may well deserve its reputation as Glacier's
scenic centre. I have much sympathy with the thousands who claim supremacy for McDermott Lake.
Lake McDonald has its wonderfully wooded shores, its majestic length and august vista; Helen
Lake its unequalled wildness; Bowman Lake its incomparable view of glacier-shrouded divide.
But McDermott has something of everything; it is a composite, a mosaic masterpiece with every
stone a gem. There is no background from which one looks forward to "the view." Its horizon
contains three hundred and sixty degrees of view. From the towering south gable of that rock-temple
to God the Creator, which the map calls Mount Gould, around the circle, it offers an unbroken
panorama in superlative.

In no sense by way of comparison, which is absurd between scenes so different, but merely to
help realization by contrast with what is well known, let us recall the Yosemite Valley. Yosemite
is a valley, Swiftcurrent an enclosure. Yosemite is gray and shining, Swiftcurrent richer far
in color. Yosemite's walls are rounded, peaked, and polished, Swiftcurrent's toothed, torn,
and crumbling; the setting sun shines through holes worn by frost and water in the living rock.
Yosemite guards her western entrance with a shaft of gray granite rising thirty-six hundred
feet from the valley floor, and her eastern end by granite domes of five thousand and six thousand
feet; Swiftcurrent's rocks gather round her central lake--Altyn, thirty-two hundred feet above
the lake's level; Henkel, thirty-eight hundred feet; Wilbur, forty-five hundred feet; Grinnell,
four thousand; Gould, forty-seven hundred; Allen, forty-five hundred--all of colored strata,
green at base, then red, then gray. Yosemite has its winding river and waterfalls, Swiftcurrent
its lakes and glaciers.

Swiftcurrent has the repose but not the softness of Yosemite. Yosemite is unbelievably beautiful.
Swiftcurrent inspires wondering awe.

McDermott Lake, focus point of all this natural glory, is scarcely a mile long, and narrow.
It may be vivid blue and steel-blue and milky-blue, and half a dozen shades of green and pink
all within twice as many minutes, according to the whim of the breeze, the changing atmosphere,
and the clouding of the sun. Often it suggests nothing so much as a pool of dull-green paint.
Or it may present a reversed image of mountains, glaciers, and sky in their own coloring. Or
at sunset it may turn lemon or purple or crimson or orange, or a blending of all. Or, with
rushing storm-clouds, it may quite suddenly lose every hint of any color, and become a study
in black, white, and intermediate grays.

There are times when, from hotel porch, rock, or boat, the towering peaks and connecting limestone
walls become suddenly so fairy-like that they lose all sense of reality, seeming to merge into
their background of sky, from which, nevertheless, they remain sharply differentiated. The
rapidity and the variety of change in the appearance of the water is nothing to that in the
appearance of these magical walls and mountains. Now near, now distant; now luring, now forbidding;
now gleaming as if with their own light; now gloomy in threat, they lose not their hold on
the eye for a moment. The unreality of McDermott Lake, the sense it often imparts of impossibility,
is perhaps its most striking feature. One suspects he dreams, awake.

THE SCENIC CIRCLE

To realize the spot as best we may, let us pause on the bridge among those casting for trout
below the upper fall and glance around. To our left rises Allen Mountain, rugged, irregular,
forest-clothed half-way up its forty-five hundred feet of elevation above the valley floor.
Beyond it a long gigantic wall sets in at right angles, blue, shining, serrated, supporting,
apparently on the lake edge, an enormous gable end of gray limestone banded with black diorite,
a veritable personality comparable with Yosemite's most famous rocks. This is Mount Gould.
Next is the Grinnell Glacier, hanging glistening in the air, dripping waterfalls, backgrounded
by the gnawed top of the venerable Garden Wall. Then comes in turn the majestic mass of Mount
Grinnell, four miles long, culminating at the lakeside in an enormous parti-colored pyramid
more impressive from the hotel than even Rockwell is from Two Medicine chalets. Then, upon
its right, appears a wall which is the unnamed continuation of the Garden Wall, and, plastered
against the side of Swiftcurrent Mountain, three small hanging glaciers, seeming in the distance
like two long parallel snow-banks. Then Mount Wilbur, another giant pyramid, gray, towering,
massively carved, grandly proportioned, kingly in bearing! Again upon its right emerges still
another continuation, also unnamed, of the Garden Wall, this section loftiest of all and bitten
deeply by the ages. A part of it is instantly recognized from the hotel window as part of the
sky-line surrounding famous Iceberg Lake. Its right is lost behind the nearer slopes of red
Mount Henkel, which swings back upon our right, bringing the eye nearly to its starting-point.
A glance out behind between mountains, upon the limitless lake-dotted plain, completes the
scenic circle.

McDermott Lake, by which I here mean the Swiftcurrent enclosure as seen from the Many Glacier
Hotel, is illustrative of all of Glacier. There are wilder spots, by far, some which frighten;
there are places of nobler beauty, though as I write I know I shall deny it the next time I
stand on McDermott's shores; there are supreme places which at first glance seem to have no
kinship with any other place on earth. Nevertheless, McDermott contains all of Glacier's elements,
all her charm, and practically all her combinations. It is the place of places to study Glacier.
It is also a place to dream away idle weeks.

So he who cannot ride or walk the trails may still see and understand Glacier in her majesty.
Besides the places I have mentioned he may see, from the Cut Bank Chalet, a characteristic
forested valley of great beauty, and at Lewis's hotel on Lake McDonald the finest spot accessible
upon the broad west side, the playground, as the east side is the show-place, of hundreds of
future thousands.

So many are the short horseback trips from Many Glacier Hotel to places of significance and
beauty that it is hard for the timid to withstand the temptation of the trail. Four miles will
reach Grinnell Lake at the foot of its glacier, six miles will penetrate the Cracker Lake Gorge
at the perpendicular base of Mount Siyeh, eight miles will disclose the astonishing spectacle
of Iceberg Lake, and nine miles will cross the Swiftcurrent Pass to the Granite Park Chalet.

ICEBERG LAKE TYPICAL OF ALL

In some respects Iceberg Lake is Glacier's supreme spectacle. There are few spots so wild.
There may be no easily accessible spot in the world half so wild. Imagine a horseshoe of perpendicular
rock wall, twenty-seven hundred to thirty-five hundred feet high, a glacier in its inmost curve,
a lake of icebergs in its centre. The back of the tower-peak of Mount Wilbur is the southern
end of this horseshoe. This enclosure was not built up from below, as it looks, but bitten
down within and without; it was left. On the edge of the lake in early July the sun sets at
four o'clock.

Stupendous as Iceberg Lake is as a spectacle, its highest purpose is illustrative. It explains
Glacier. Here by this lakeside, fronting the glacier's floating edge and staring up at the
jagged top in front and on either side, one comprehends at last. The appalling story of the
past seems real.

THE CLIMAX AT GRANITE PARK

It is at Granite Park that one realizes the geography of Glacier. You have crossed the continental
divide and emerged upon a lofty abutment just west of it. You are very nearly in the park's
centre, and on the margin of a forested canyon of impressive breadth and depth, lined on either
side by mountain monsters, and reaching from Mount Cannon at the head of Lake McDonald northward
to the Alberta plain. The western wall of this vast avenue is the Livingston Range. Its eastern
wall is the Lewis Range. Both in turn carry the continental divide, which crosses the avenue
from Livingston to Lewis by way of low-crowned Flattop Mountain, a few miles north of where
you stand, and back to Livingston by way of Clements Mountain, a few miles south. Opposite
you, across the chasm, rises snowy Heavens Peak. Southwest lies Lake McDonald, hidden by Heavens'
shoulder. South is Logan Pass, carrying another trail across the divide, and disclosing hanging
gardens beyond on Reynolds' eastern slope. Still south of that, unseen from here, is famous
Gunsight Pass.

It is a stirring spectacle. But wait. A half-hour's climb to the summit of Swiftcurrent Mountain
close at hand (the chalet is most of the way up, to start with) and all of Glacier lies before
you like a model in relief. Here you see the Iceberg Cirque from without and above. The Belly
River chasm yawns enormously. Mount Cleveland, monarch of the region, flaunts his crown of
snow among his near-by court of only lesser monsters. The Avenue of the Giants deeply splits
the northern half of the park, that land of extravagant accent, mysterious because so little
known; the Glacier of tourists lying south. A marvellous spectacle, this, indeed, and one which
clears up many misconceptions. The Canadian Rockies hang on the misty northern horizon, the
Montana plains float eastward, the American Rockies roll south and west.

OVER GUNSIGHT PASS

To me one of the most stirring sights in all Glacier is the view of Gunsight Pass from the
foot of Gunsight Lake. The immense glaciered uplift of Mount Jackson on the south of the pass,
the wild whitened sides of Gunsight Mountain opposite dropping to the upturned strata of red
shale at the water's edge, the pass itself--so well named--perched above the dark precipice
at the lake's head, the corkscrew which the trail makes up Jackson's perpendicular flank and
its passage across a mammoth snow-bank high in air--these in contrast with the silent black
water of the sunken lake produce ever the same thrill however often seen. The look back, too,
once the pass is gained, down St. Mary's gracious valley to Going-to-the-Sun Mountain and its
horizon companions! Sun Mountain (for short), always a personality, is never from any other
point of view so undeniably the crowned majesty as from Gunsight Pass. And finally, looking
forward, which in this speaking means westward, the first revelation of Lake Ellen Wilson gives
a shock of awed astonishment whose memory can never pass.

Truly, Gunsight is a pass of many sensations, for, leaving Lake Ellen Wilson and its eighteen
hundred feet of vertical frothing outlet, the westward trail crosses the shoulder of Lincoln
Peak to the Sperry Glacier and its inviting chalet (where the biggest hoary marmot I ever saw
sat upon my dormitory porch), and, eight miles farther down the mountain, beautiful Lake McDonald.

DESTINY OF THE WEST SIDE

Although it was settled earlier, Glacier's west side is less developed than its east side;
this because, for the most part, its scenery is less sensational though no less gorgeously
beautiful. Its five long lakes, of which McDonald is much the longest and largest, head up
toward the snowy monsters of the divide; their thin bodies wind leisurely westward among superbly
forested slopes. Its day is still to come. It is the land of the bear, the moose, the deer,
the trout, and summer leisure. Its destiny is to become Glacier's vacation playground.

THE COMING SPLENDORS OF THE NORTH

The wild north side of Glacier, its larger, bigger-featured, and occasionally greater part,
is not yet for the usual tourist; for many years from this writing, doubtless, none will know
it but the traveller with tent and pack-train. He alone, and may his tribe increase, will enjoy
the gorgeous cirques and canyons of the Belly River, the wild quietude of the Waterton Valley,
the regal splendors of Brown Pass, and the headwater spectacles of the Logging, Quartz, Bowman,
and Kintla valleys. He alone will realize that here is a land of greater power, larger measures,
and bigger horizons.

And yet with Kintla comes climax. Crossing the border the mountains subside, the glaciers disappear.
Canada's Waterton Lakes Park begins at our climax and merges in half a dozen miles into the
great prairies of Alberta. It is many miles northwest before the Canadian Rockies assume proportions
of superlative scenic grandeur.

THE BELLY RIVER VALLEYS

To realize the growing bigness of the land northward one has only to cross the wall from Iceberg
Lake into the Belly River canyon. "Only," indeed! In 1917 it took us forty miles of detour
outside the park, even under the shadow of Chief Mountain, to cross the wall from Iceberg Lake,
the west-side precipice of which is steeper even than the east. The Belly River drainage-basin
is itself bigger, and its mountains bulk in proportion. Eighteen glaciers contribute to the
making of perhaps as many lakes. The yellow mountains of its northern slopes invade Canada.
The borders of its principal valley are two monster mountains, Cleveland, the greatest in the
park for mass and height and intricate outline; the other, Merritt, in some respects the most
interesting of Glacier's abundant collection of majestic peaks.

There are three valleys. The North Fork finds its way quickly into Canada. The Middle Fork
rises in a group of glaciers high under the continental divide and descends four giant steps,
a lake upon each step, to two greater lakes of noble aspect in the valley bottom. The South
Fork emerges from Helen Lake deep in the gulf below the Ahern Glacier across the Garden Wall
from Iceberg Lake. Between the Middle and South Forks Mount Merritt rises 9,944 feet in altitude,
minareted like a mediæval fort and hollow as a bowl, its gaping chasm hung with glaciers.

This is the valley of abundance. The waters are large, their trout many and vigorous; the bottoms
are extravagantly rich in grasses and flowers; the forests are heavy and full-bodied; there
is no open place, even miles beyond its boundaries, which does not offer views of extraordinary
nobility. Every man who enters it becomes enthusiastically prophetic of its future. After all,
the Belly River country is easily visited. A leisurely horseback journey from McDermott, that
is all; three days among the strange yellow mountains of the over thrust's eastern edge, including
two afternoons among the fighting trout of Kennedy Creek and Slide Lake, and two nights in
camp among the wild bare arroyos of the Algonkian invasion of the prairie--an interesting prelude
to the fulness of wilderness life to come.

I dwell upon the Belly valleys because their size, magnificence, and accessibility suggest
a future of public use; nothing would be easier, for instance, than a road from Babb to join
the road already in from Canada. The name naturally arouses curiosity. Why Belly? Was it not
the Anglo-Saxon frontier's pronunciation of the Frenchman's original Belle? The river, remember,
is mainly Canadian. Surely in all its forks and tributaries it was and is the Beautiful River.

THE AVENUE OF THE GIANTS

The Avenue of the Giants looms in any forecast of Glacier's future. It really consists of two
valleys joined end on at their beginnings on Flattop Mountain; McDonald Creek flowing south,
Little Kootenai flowing north. The road which will replace the present trail up this avenue
from the much-travelled south to Waterton Lake and Canada is a matter doubtless of a distant
future, but it is so manifestly destiny that it must be accepted as the key to the greater
Glacier to come. Uniting at its southern end roads from both sides of the divide, it will reach
the Belly valleys by way of Ahern Pass, the Bowman and Kintla valleys by way of Brown Pass,
and will terminate at the important tourist settlement which is destined to grow at the splendid
American end of Waterton Lake. Incidentally it will become an important motor-highway between
Canada and America. Until then, though all these are now accessible by trail, the high distinction
of the Bowman and the Kintla valleys' supreme expression of the glowing genius of this whole
country will remain unknown to any considerable body of travellers.

THE CLIMAX OF BOWMAN AND KINTLA

And, after all, the Bowman and Kintla regions are Glacier's ultimate expression, Bowman of
her beauty, Kintla of her majesty. No one who has seen the foaming cascades of Mount Peabody
and a lost outlet of the lofty Boulder Glacier emerging dramatically through Hole-in-the-Wall
Fall, for all the world like a horsetail fastened upon the face of a cliff, who has looked
upon the Guardhouse from Brown Pass and traced the distant windings of Bowman Lake between
the fluted precipice of Rainbow Peak and the fading slopes of Indian Ridge; or has looked upon
the mighty monolith of Kintla Peak rising five thousand feet from the lake in its gulf-like
valley, spreading upon its shoulders, like wings prepared for flight, the broad gleaming glaciers
known as Kintla and Agassiz, will withhold his guerdon for a moment.

Here again we repeat, for the hundredth or more time in our leisurely survey of the park, what
the Englishman said of the spectacle of St. Mary: "There is nothing like it in the world."

XIV

ROCK RECORDS OF A VANISHED RACE

MESA VERDE NATIONAL PARK, SOUTHWESTERN COLORADO. AREA, 77 SQUARE MILES

I

Many years, possibly centuries, before Columbus discovered America, a community of cliff-dwellers
inhabiting a group of canyons in what is now southwestern Colorado entirely disappeared.

Many generations before that, again possibly centuries, the founders of this community, abandoning
the primitive pueblos of their people elsewhere, had sought new homes in the valleys tributary
to the Mancos River. Perhaps they were enterprising young men and women dissatisfied with the
poor and unprogressive life at home. Perhaps they were dissenters from ancient religious forms,
outcasts and pilgrims, for there is abundant evidence that the prehistoric sun-worshippers
of our southwest were deeply religious, and human nature is the same under skins of all colors
in every land and age. More likely they were merely thrifty pioneers attracted to the green
cedar-grown mesas by the hope of better conditions.

Whatever the reason for their pilgrimage, it is a fair inference that, like our own Pilgrim
Fathers, they were sturdy of body and progressive of spirit, for they had a culture which their
descendants carried beyond that of other tribes and communities of prehistoric people in America
north of the land of the Aztecs.

Beginning with modest stone structures of the usual cliff-dwellers' type built in deep clefts
in the mesa's perpendicular cliff, safe from enemies above and below, these enterprising people
developed in time a complicated architecture of a high order; they advanced the arts beyond
the practice of their forefathers and their neighbors; they herded cattle upon the mesas; they
raised corn and melons in clearings in the forests, and watered their crops in the dry seasons
by means of simple irrigation systems as soundly scientific, so far as they went, as those
of to-day; outgrowing their cliff homes, they invaded the neighboring mesas, where they built
pueblos and more ambitious structures.

Then, apparently suddenly, for they left behind them many of their household goods, and left
unfinished an elaborate temple to their god, the sun, they vanished. There is no clew to the
reason or the manner of their going.

Meantime European civilization was pushing in all directions. Columbus discovered America;
De Soto explored the southeast and ascended the Mississippi; Cortez pushed into Mexico and
conquered the Aztecs; Spanish priests carried the gospel north and west from the Antilles to
the continent; Raleigh sent explorers to Virginia; the Pilgrim Fathers landed in Massachusetts;
the white man pushed the Indian aside, and at last the European pioneer sought a precarious
living on the sands of the southwest.

One December day in 1888 Richard and Alfred Wetherill hunted lost cattle on the top of one
of the green mesas north and west of the Mancos River. They knew this mesa well. Many a time
before had they rounded up their herds and stalked the deer among the thin cedar and pinyon
forests. Often, doubtless, in their explorations of the broad Mancos Valley below, they had
happened upon ruins of primitive isolated or grouped stone buildings hidden by sage-brush,
half buried in rock and sand. No doubt, around their ranch fire, they had often speculated
concerning the manner of men that had inhabited these lowly structures so many years before
that sometimes aged cedars grew upon the broken walls.

But this December day brought the Wetherills the surprise of their uneventful lives. Some of
the cattle had wandered far, and the search led to the very brink of a deep and narrow canyon,
across which, in a long deep cleft under the overhang of the opposite cliff, they saw what
appeared to be a city. Those who have looked upon the stirring spectacle of Cliff Palace from
this point can imagine the astonishment of these ranchmen.

Whether or not the lost cattle were ever found is not recorded, but we may assume that living
on the mesa was not plentiful enough to make the Wetherills forget them in the pleasure of
discovering a ruin. But they lost no time in investigating their find, and soon after crossed
the canyon and climbed into this prehistoric city. They named it Cliff Palace, most inappropriately,
by the way, for it was in fact that most democratic of structures, a community dwelling. Pushing
their explorations farther, presently they discovered also a smaller ruin, which they named
Spruce Tree House, because a prominent spruce grew in front of it. These are the largest two
cliff-dwellings in the Mesa Verde National Park, and, until Doctor J. Walter Fewkes unearthed
Sun Temple in 1915, among the most extraordinary prehistoric buildings north of Mexico.

There are thousands of prehistoric ruins in our southwest, and many besides those of the Mesa
Verde are examples of an aboriginal civilization. Hundreds of canyons tell the story of the
ancient cliff-dwellers; and still more numerous are the remains of communal houses built of
stone or sun-dried brick under the open sky. These pueblos in the open are either isolated
structures like the lesser cliff-dwellings, or are crowded together till they touch walls,
as in our modern cities; often they were several stories high, the floors connected by ladders.
Sometimes, for protection against the elements, whole villages were built in caves. Pueblos
occasionally may be seen from the car-window in New Mexico. The least modified of the prehistoric
type which are occupied to-day are the eight villages of the Hopi near the Grand Canyon in
Arizona; a suggestive reproduction of a model pueblo, familiar to many thousands who have visited
the canyon, stands near the El Tovar Hotel.

It was not therefore because of the rarity of prehistoric dwellings of either type that the
cliff villages of the Mesa Verde were conserved as a national park, nor only because they are
the best preserved of all North American ruins, but because they disclose a type of this culture
in advance of all others.

The builders and inhabitants of these dwellings were Indians having physical features common
to all American tribes. That their accomplishment differed in degree from that of the shiftless
war-making tribes north and east of them, and from that of the cultured and artistic Mayas
of Central America, was doubtless due to differences in conditions of living. The struggle
for bare existence in the southwest, like that of the habitats of other North American Indians,
was intense; but these were agriculturalists and protected by environment. The desert was a
handicap, of course, but it offered opportunity in many places for dry farming; the Indian
raised his corn. The winters, too, were short. It is only in the southwest that enterprise
developed the architecture of stone houses which distinguish pueblo Indians from others in
North America.

The dwellers in the Mesa Verde were more fortunate even than their fellow pueblo dwellers.
The forested mesas, so different from the arid cliffs farther south and west, possessed constant
moisture and fertile soil. The grasses lured the deer within capture. The Mancos River provided
fish. Above all, the remoteness of these fastness canyons from the trails of raiders and traders
and their ease of defense made for long generations of peace. The enterprise innate in the
spirit of man did the rest.

II

The history of the Mesa Verde National Park began with the making of America. All who have
travelled in the southwest have seen mesas from the car-window. New Mexico, Arizona, and parts
of Colorado and Utah, the region of the pueblos, constitute an elevated plateau largely arid.
Many millions of years ago all was submerged in the intercontinental sea; in fact the region
was sea many times, for it rose and fell alternately, accumulating thousands of feet of sands
and gravels much of which hardened into stone after the slow great uplifting which made it
the lofty plateau of to-day. Erosion did its work. For a million years or more the floods of
spring have washed down the sands and gravels, and the rivers have carried them into the sea.
Thousands of vertical feet have disappeared in this way from the potential altitude of the
region. The spring floods are still washing down the sands and gravels, and the canyons, cliffs,
and mesas of the desert are disclosed to-day as stages in the eternal levelling.

Thus were created the canyons and mesas of the Mesa Verde. Mesa, by the way, is Spanish for
table, and verde for green. These, then, are the green tablelands, forest-covered and during
the summer grown scantily with grass and richly with flowers.

The Mesa Verde National Park was created by act of Congress in June, 1906, and enlarged seven
years later. The Mancos River, on its way to the San Juan and thence to the Colorado and the
passage of the Grand Canyon, forms its southern boundary. Scores of canyons, large and small,
nearly all dry except at the spring floods, are tributary. All of these trend south; in a general
way they are parallel. Each of the greater stems has its lesser tributaries and each of these
its lesser forks. Between the canyons lie the mesas. Their tops, if continued without break,
would form a more or less level surface; that is, all had been a plain before floods cut the
separating canyons.

The region has a wonderful scenic charm. It is markedly different in quality from other national
parks, but in its own way is quite as startling and beautiful. Comparison is impossible because
of the lack of elements in common, but it may be said that the Mesa Verde represents our great
southwest in one of its most fascinating phases, combining the fundamentals of the desert with
the flavor of the near-by mountains. The canyons, which are seven or eight hundred feet deep
and two or three times as wide where the cliff-dwellings gather, are prevailingly tawny yellow.
Masses of sloping talus reach more than half-way up; above them the cliffs are perpendicular;
it is in cavities in these perpendiculars that the cliff-dwellings hide. Above the cliffs are
low growths of yellowish-green cedar with pinyons and other conifers of darker foliage. Beneath
the trees and covering the many opens grows the familiar sage of the desert, a gray which hints
at green and yellow both but realizes neither. But the sage-brush shelters desert grasses,
and, around the occasional springs and their slender outlets, grass grows rank and plenteous;
a little water counts for a great deal in the desert.

Summer, then, is delightful on the Mesa Verde. The plateau is high and the air invigorating,
warm by day in midsummer, always cool at night. The atmosphere is marvellously clear, and the
sunsets are famous. The winter snows, which reach three or four feet in depth, disappear in
April. From May to Thanksgiving the region is in its prime. It is important to realize that
this land has much for the visitor besides its ruins. It has vigor, distinction, personality,
and remarkable charm. It is the highest example of one of America's most distinctive and important
scenic phases, and this without reference to its prehistoric dwellings. No American traveller
knows his America, even the great southwest, who does not know the border-land where desert
and forest mingle.

The Southern Ute Indian Reservation bites a large rectangle from the southeast corner of the
park, but its inhabitants are very different in quality of mind and spirit from the ancient
and reverent builders of Sun Temple. Reservation Indians frequently enter the park, but they
cannot be persuaded to approach the cliff-dwellings. The "little people," they tell you, live
there, and neither teaching nor example will convince them that these invisible inhabitants
will not injure intruders. Some of these Indians allege that it was their own ancestors who
built the cliff-dwellings, but there is neither record nor tradition to support such a claim.
The fact appears to be that the Utes were the ancient enemies of this people. There is a Ute
tradition of a victory over the ancient pueblo-dwellers at Battle Rock in McElmo Canyon.

There are, on the other hand, many reasons for the opinion that the Hopi Indians of the present
day, so far at least as culture goes, are descendants of this remarkable prehistoric people.
Besides the many similarities between the architectural types of the Mesa Verde and the pueblos
of the modern Hopi, careful investigators have found suggestive points of similarity in their
utensils, their art forms, and their customs. Doctor Fewkes cites a Hopi tradition to that
effect by mentioning the visit of a Hopi courier a few years ago to prehistoric ruins in the
Navajo National Monument to obtain water from an ancestral spring for use in a Hopi religious
ceremonial. If these traditions are founded in fact, the promising civilization of the Mesa
Verde has sadly retrograded in its transplanting. Hopi architecture and masonry shows marked
retrogression from the splendid types of the Mesa Verde.

When the telephone-line was under construction to connect the park with the outside world,
the Indians from the adjoining Ute reservation became suspicious and restless. Upon hearing
its purpose, they begged the superintendent not to go on with the work, which was certain to
bring evil to the neighborhood.

"The little people," they solemnly declared, "will not like it."

They assured the superintendent that the wires would not talk.

"The little people will not let them talk," they told him.

But the line was completed and the wires talked.

The park is reached by motor and rail. From Denver, Salt Lake City, and Santa Fé railroad routes
offer choice of some of the biggest country of the Rockies. From either direction a night is
spent en route in a mountain mining-town, an experience which has its usefulness in preparation
for the contrasted and unusual experience to come. Entrance is through Mancos, from which motor-stages
thread the maze of canyons and mesas from the highlands of the northern border to the deep
canyons of the south where cluster the ruins of distinction.

This entry is delightful. The road crosses the northern boundary at the base of a lofty butte
known as Point Lookout, the park's highest elevation. Encircling its eastern side and crossing
the Morefield Canyon the road perches for several miles upon the sinuous crest of a ridge more
than eight thousand feet in altitude, whose north side plunges eighteen hundred feet into the
broad Montezuma Valley, and whose gentle southern slope holds the small beginnings of the great
canyons of the cliff-dwellers. Both north and south the panorama unfolds in impressive grandeur,
eloquent of the beautiful scanty land and of the difficult conditions of living which confronted
the sturdy builders whose ancient masterpieces we are on our way to see. At the northern end
of Chapin Mesa we swing sharply south and follow its slope, presently entering the warm, glowing,
scented forests, through which we speed to the hotel-camp perched upon a bluff overlooking
the depths of Spruce Canyon.

Upon the top and under the eaves of this mesa are found very fine types of prehistoric civilization.
At Mummy Lake, half-way down the mesa, we passed on the way a good example of pueblo architecture,
and within an easy walk of our terminal camp we find some of the noblest examples of cliff-dwellings
in existence. Here it was, near the head of this remote, nearly inaccessible, canyon, guarded
by nature's ramparts, that aboriginal American genius before the coming of the Anglo-Saxon
found its culminating expression.

In this spirit the thoughtful American of to-day enters the Mesa Verde National Park and examines
its precious memorials.

III

Although the accident of the road brings the traveller first to the mesa-top pueblos of the
Mummy Lake district, historical sequence suggests that examination begin with the cliff-dwellings.

Of the many examples of these remains in the park, Cliff Palace, Spruce Tree House, and Balcony
House are the most important because they concisely and completely cover the range of life
and the fulness of development. This is not the place for detailed descriptions of these ruins.
The special publications of the National Park Service and particularly the writings of Doctor
J. Walter Fewkes of the Smithsonian Institution, who has devoted many years of brilliant investigation
to American prehistoric remains, are obtainable from government sources. Here we shall briefly
consider several types.

It is impossible, without reference to photographs, to convey a concise adequate idea of Cliff
Palace. Seen from across its canyon the splendid crescent-shaped ruin offers to the unaccustomed
eye little that is common to modern architecture. Prominently in the foreground, large circular
wells at once challenge interest. These were the kivas, or ceremonial rooms of the community,
centres of the religious activities which counted so importantly in pueblo life. Here it was
that men gathered monthly to worship their gods. In the floors of some kivas are small holes
representing symbolically the entrance to the underworld, and around these from time to time
priests doubtless performed archaic ceremonies and communicated with the dead. Each family
or clan in the community is supposed to have had its own kiva.

The kiva walls of Cliff Palace show some of the finest prehistoric masonry in America. All
are subterranean, which in a few instances necessitated excavation in floors of solid rock.
The roofs were supported by pedestals rising from mural banquettes, usually six pedestals to
a kiva; the kiva supposed to have belonged to the chiefs clan had eight pedestals, and one,
perhaps belonging to a clan of lesser prominence, had only two. Several kivas which lack roof-supports
may have been of different type or used for lesser ceremonials. All except these have fireplaces
and ventilators. Entrance was by ladder from the roof.

Other rooms identified are living-rooms, storage-rooms, milling-rooms, and round and square
towers, besides which there are dark rooms of unknown use and several round rooms which are
neither kivas nor towers. Several of the living-rooms have raised benches evidently used for
beds, and in one of them pegs for holding clothing still remain in the walls. The rooms are
smoothly plastered or painted.

Mills for grinding corn were found in one room in rows; in others, singly. The work was done
by women, who rubbed the upper stone against the lower by hand. The rests for their feet while
at work still remain in place; also the brushes for sweeping up the meal. The small storage-rooms
had stone doors, carefully sealed with clay to keep out mice and prevent moisture from spoiling
the corn and meal.

One of the most striking buildings in Cliff Palace is the Round Tower, two stories high, which
not only was an observatory, as is indicated by its peep-holes, but also served purposes in
religious festivals. Its masonry belongs to the finest north of Mexico. The stones are beautifully
fitted and dressed. The Square Tower which stands at the southern end of the village is four
stories high, reaching the roof of the cave. The inner walls of its third story are elaborately
painted with red and white symbols, triangles, zigzags, and parallels, the significance of
which is not known.

The ledge under which Cliff Palace is built forms a roof that overhangs the structure. An entrance,
probably the principal one, came from below to a court at a lower level than the floor, from
which access was by ladder.

Spruce Tree House, which may have been built after Cliff Palace, has a circular room with windows
which were originally supposed to have been port-holes for defense. Doctor Fewkes, however,
suggests a more probable purpose, as the position of the room does not specially suggest a
fortress. Through the openings in this room the sun-priest may have watched the setting sun
to determine the time for ceremonies. The room was entered from above, like a kiva. Another
room, differing from any in other cliff-dwellings, has been named the Warriors' Room because,
unlike sleeping-rooms, its bench surrounds three sides, and because, unlike any other room,
it is built above a kiva. Only the exigencies of defense, it is supposed, would warrant so
marked a departure from the prescribed religious form of room.

Balcony House has special interest, apart from its commanding location, perfection of workmanship
and unusual beauty, and because of the ingenuity of the defenses of its only possible entrance.
At the top of a steep trail a cave-like passage between rocks is walled so as to leave a door
capable of admitting only one at a time, behind which two or three men could strike down, one
by one, an attacking army.

Out of these simple architectural elements, together with the utensils and weapons found in
the ruins, the imagination readily constructs a picture of the austere, laborious, highly religious,
and doubtless happy lives led by the earnest people who built these ancient dwellings in the caves.

When all the neighborhood caves were filled to overflowing with increasing population, and
generations of peace had wrought a confidence which had not existed when the pioneers had sought
safety in caves, these people ventured to move out of cliffs and to build upon the tops of
the mesa. Whether all the cave-dwellers were descended from the original pilgrims or whether
others had joined them afterward is not known, but it seems evident that the separate communities
had found some common bond, probably tribal, and perhaps evolved some common government. No
doubt they intermarried. No doubt the blood of many cliff-dwelling communities mingled in the
new communities which built pueblos upon the mesa. In time there were many of these pueblos,
and they were widely scattered; there are mounds at intervals all over the Mesa Verde. The
largest group of pueblos, one infers from the number of visible mounds, was built upon the
Chapin Mesa several miles north of the above-mentioned cliff-dwelling near a reservoir known
to-day as Mummy Lake. It is there, then, that we shall now go in continuation of our story.

Mummy Lake is not a lake and no mummies were ever found there. This old-time designation applies
to an artificial depression surrounded by a low rude stone wall, much crumbled, which was evidently
a storage reservoir for an irrigation system of some size. A number of conspicuous mounds in
the neighborhood suggest the former existence of a village of pueblos dependent upon the farms
for which the irrigation system had been built. One of these, from which a few stones protruded,
was excavated in 1916 by Doctor Fewkes, and has added a new and important chapter to the history
of this people. This pueblo has been named Far View House. Its extensive vista includes four
other groups of similar mounds. Each cluster occurs in the fertile sage-brush clearings which
bloom in summer with asters and Indian paint-brush; there is no doubt that good crops of Indian
corn could still be raised from these sands to-day by dry-farming methods.

Far View House is a pueblo, a hundred and thirteen feet long by more than fifty feet wide,
not including a full-length plaza about thirty-five feet wide in which religious dances are
supposed to have taken place. The differences between this fine structure and the cliff-cities
are considerable. The most significant evidence of progress, perhaps, is the modern regularity
of the ground-plan. The partitions separating the secular rooms are continuous through the
building, and the angles are generally accurately right angles.

The pueblo had three stories. It is oriented approximately to the cardinal points and was terraced
southward to secure a sunny exposure. The study of the solar movements became an advanced science
with these people in the latter stages of their development. It must be remembered that they
had no compasses; knowing nothing of the north or any other fixed point, nevertheless there
is evidence that they successfully worked out the solstices and planned their later buildings
accurately according to cardinal points of their own calculation.

Another difference indicating development is the decrease in the number of kivas, and the construction
of a single very large kiva in the middle of the building. Its size suggests at once that the
individual clan organization of cliff-dwelling days had here given place to a single priestly
fraternity, sociologically a marked advance. Drawing parallels with the better-known customs
of other primitive people, we are at liberty, if we please, to infer similar progress in other
directions. The original primitive communism was developing naturally, though doubtless very
slowly, into something akin to organized society, probably involving more complicated economic
relationships in all departments of living.

While their masonry did not apparently improve in proportion, Far View House shows increase
in the number and variety of the decorative figures incised on hewn stones. The spiral, representing
the coiled serpent, appears a number of times, as do many combinations of squares, curves,
and angles arranged in fanciful design, which may or may not have had symbolic meanings.

A careful examination of the neighborhood discloses few details of the irrigation system, but
it shows a cemetery near the southeast corner of the building in which the dead were systematically
buried.

Large numbers of minor antiquities were found in this interesting structure. Besides the usual
stone implements of the mason and the housekeeper, many instruments of bone, such as needles,
dirks, and bodkins, were found. Figurines of several kinds were unearthed, carved from soft
stone, including several intended to symbolize Indian corn; all these may have been idols.
Fragments of pottery were abundant, in full variety of form, decoration, and color, but always
the most ancient types. Among the bones of animals, the frequency of those of rabbits, deer,
antelope, elk, and mountain-sheep indicate that meat formed no inconsiderable part of the diet.
Fabrics and embroideries were not discovered, as in the cliff-dwellings, but they may have
disappeared in the centuries through exposure to the elements.

Far View House may not show the highest development of the Mummy Lake cluster of pueblos, and
further exhumations here and in neighboring groups may throw further light upon this interesting
people in their gropings from darkness to light. Meantime, however, returning to the neighborhood
of the cliff-dwellings, let us examine a structure so late in the history of these people that
they left it unfinished.

Sun Temple stands on a point of Chapin Mesa, somewhat back from the edge of Cliff Canyon, commanding
an extraordinary range of country. It is within full view of Cliff Palace and other cliff-dwellings
of importance and easy of access. From it, one can look southward to the Mancos River. On every
side a wide range of mesa and canyon lies in full view. The site is unrivalled for a temple
in which all could worship with devotion.

When Doctor Fewkes, in the early summer of 1915, attacked the mound which had been designated
Community House under the supposition that it covered a ruined pueblo, he had no idea of the
extraordinary nature of the find awaiting him, although he was prepared from its shape and
other indications for something out of the usual. So wholly without parallel was the disclosure,
however, that it was not till it was entirely uncovered that he ventured a public conjecture
as to its significance. The ground-plan of Sun Temple is shaped like the letter D. It encloses
another D-shaped structure occupying nearly two-thirds of its total area, within which are
two large kivas. Between the outer and the inner D are passages and rooms, and at one end a
third kiva is surrounded by rooms, one of which is circular.

Sun Temple is also impressive in size. It is a hundred and twenty-one feet long and sixty-four
feet wide. Its walls average four feet in thickness, and are double-faced, enclosing a central
core of rubble; they are built of the neighborhood sandstone. The masonry is of fine quality.
This, together with its symmetrical architectural design, its fine proportions, and its many
decorated stones, mark it the highest type of Mesa Verde architecture.

It was plainly unfinished. Walls had risen in some places higher than in others. As yet there
was no roofing. No rooms had been plastered. Of internal finishing little was completed, and
of contents, of course, there was none. The stone hammers and other utensils of the builders
were found lying about as if thrown down at day's close.

The kivas, although circular, are unlike those of Cliff Palace, inasmuch as they are above
ground, not subterranean. The mortar used in pointing shows the impress of human hands; no
trowels were used. The walls exhibit many stones incised with complicated designs, largely
geometric; some may be mason's marks; others are decorative or symbolic. These designs indicate
a marked advance over those in Far View House; in fact they are far more complicated and artistic
than any in the southwest.

Bare and ineloquent though its unfinished condition left it, the religious purposes of the
entire building are clear to the archæologist in its form. And, as if to make conjecture certainty,
a shrine was uncovered on the corner-stone of the outer wall which frames in solid stone walls
a large fossil palm-leaf whose rays strongly suggest the sun!

It requires no imagination to picture the effect which the original discovery of this image
of their god must have had upon a primitive community of sun-worshippers. It must have seemed
to them a divine gift, a promise, like the Ark of the Covenant, of the favor of the Almighty.
It may even have first suggested the idea of building this temple to their deity.

This is all the story. Go there and study it in detail. Enlightened, profoundly impressed,
nevertheless you will finish at this point. The tale has no climax. It just stops.

What happened to the people of the Mesa Verde?

Some archæologists believe that they emigrated to neighboring valleys southwest. But why should
they have left their prosperous farms and fine homes for regions which seem to us less desirable?
And why, a profoundly religious people, should they have left Sun Temple unfinished?

What other supposition remains?

Only, I think, that, perhaps because of their prosperity and the unpreparedness that accompanies
long periods of peace, they were suddenly overwhelmed by enemies.

XV

THE HEALING WATERS

HOT SPRINGS RESERVATION, ARKANSAS. PLATT NATIONAL PARK, OKLAHOMA

I

From a hillside on the edge of the Ozark Mountains in central Arkansas issue springs of hot
water which are effective in the alleviation of rheumatic and kindred ills. Although chemical
analysis fails to explain the reason, the practice of many years has abundantly proved their
worth. Before the coming of the white man they were known to the Indians, who are said to have
proclaimed them neutral territory in time of war. Perhaps it was rumor of their fame upon which
Ponce de Leon founded his dream of a Fountain of Youth.

In the early years of the last century hundreds of settlers toiled many miles over forest trails
to camp beside them and bathe daily in their waters. The bent and suffering were carried there
on stretchers. So many and so striking were the cures that the fame of these springs spread
throughout the young nation, and in 1832, to prevent their falling into hands outstretched
to seize and exploit them for private gain, Congress created them a national reservation. The
Hot Springs Reservation was our first national park.

Previous to this a couple of log houses built by visitors served for shelter for the pilgrims
at the shrine of health. Soon after, other buildings quite as primitive were erected. A road
was constructed through the forests from the settled portions of the State, and many drove
laboriously in with tents and camping outfits. I have seen a copy of a photograph which was
taken when photographs were new, showing several men and women in the odd conventional costume
of that period sitting solemnly upon the banks of a steaming spring, their clothes drawn up,
their bare legs calf deep in the hot water.

Once started, Hot Springs grew rapidly. Unfortunately, this first act of national conservation
failed to foresee the great future of these springs, and the reservation line was drawn so
that it barely enclosed the brook of steaming vapors which was their outlet. To-day, when the
nation contemplates spending millions to beautify the national spa, it finds the city built
solidly opposite.

Railroads soon pushed their way through the Ozark foothills and landed thousands yearly beside
the healing waters. Hotels became larger and more numerous. The government built a public bathhouse
into which the waters were piped for the free treatment of the people. Concessioners built
more elaborate structures within the reservation to accommodate those who preferred to pay
for pleasanter surroundings or for private treatment. The village became a town and the town
a city. Boarding-houses sprang up everywhere with accommodations to suit the needs of purses
of all lengths. Finally, large and costly hotels were built for the prosperous and fashionable
who began to find rare enjoyment in the beautiful Ozark country while they drank their hot
water and took their invigorating baths. Hot Springs became a national resort.

It will be seen that, in its way, Hot Springs has reflected the social development of the country.
It has passed through the various stages that marked the national growth in taste and morals.
During the period when gambling was a national vice it was noted for its high play, and then
gamblers of all social grades looked forward to their season in the South. During the period
of national dissipation, when polite drunkenness was a badge of class and New Year's day an
orgy, it became the periodic resort of inebriates, just as later, with the elevation of the
national moral sense, it became instead the most conservative of resorts, the periodic refuge
of thousands of work-worn business and professional men seeking the astonishing recuperative
power of its water.

True again to the spirit of the times, Hot Springs reflects to the full the spirit of to-day.
It is a Southern mountain resort of quiet charm and wonderful natural beauty set on the edge
of a broad region of hills, ravines, and sweet-smelling pines, a paradise for the walker, the
hiker, and the horseback rider. Down on the street a long row of handsome modern bath-houses,
equipped with all the scientific luxuries, and more besides, of the most elaborate European
spa, concentrates the business of bath and cure. Back of this rise directly the beautiful Ozark
hills. One may have exactly what he wishes at Hot Springs. He may live with the sick if that
is his bent, or he may spend weeks of rich enjoyment of the South in holiday mood, and have
his baths besides, without a suggestion of the sanitarium or even of the spa.

Meantime the mystery of the water's potency seems to have been solved. It is not chemical in
solution which clears the system of its ills and restores the jaded tissues to buoyancy, but
the newly discovered principle of radioactivity. Somewhere deep in Nature's laboratory these
waters become charged with an uplifting power which is imparted to those who bathe according
to the rules which many years of experience have prescribed. Many physicians refuse to verify
the waters' virtues; some openly scoff. But the fact stands that every year hundreds who come
helpless cripples walk jauntily to the station on their departure, and many thousands of sufferers
from rheumatic ills and the wear and tear of strenuous living return to their homes restored.
I myself can testify to the surprising recuperative effect of only half a dozen daily baths,
and I know business men who habitually go there whenever the stress of overwork demands measures
of quick relief.

It is not surprising that more than a hundred thousand persons visit Hot Springs every year.
The recognized season begins after the winter holidays; then it is that gayety and pleasuring,
riding, driving, motoring, golfing, and the social life of the fashionable hotels reach their
height. But, for sheer enjoyment of the quieter kind, the spring, early summer, and the autumn
are unsurpassed; south though it lies, Hot Springs is delightful even in midsummer.

Two railroads land the visitor almost at the entrance of the reservation. A fine road brings
the motorist sixty miles from the lively city of Little Rock. The elaborate bath-houses line
the reservation side of the principal street, opposite the brick city. But back of them rises
abruptly the beautiful forested mountain from whose side gush the healing waters, and back
of this roll the beautiful pine-grown Ozarks. The division is sharply drawn. He who chooses
may forget the city except at the hour of his daily bath.

The plans for realizing in stone and landscape gardening the ideal of the great American spa,
which this spot is in fact, contemplate the work of years.

II

In southern Oklahoma not far from the Texas boundary, a group of thirty healing springs, these
of cold sparkling water, were set apart by Congress in 1904 under the title of the Platt National
Park. Most of them are sulphur springs; others are impregnated with bromides and other mineral
salts. Many thousands visit yearly the prosperous bordering city of Sulphur to drink these
waters; many camp in or near the reservation; the bottled waters bring relief to thousands at home.

Through the national park, from its source in the east to its entry into Rock Creek, winds
Travertine Creek, the outlet of most of these springs. Rock Creek outlines the park's western
boundary, and on its farther bank lies the city. Springs of importance within the park pour
their waters directly into its current. All these Platt springs, like those of Hot Springs,
Arkansas, were known to the Indians for their curative properties for many generations before
the coming of the white settler.

The park is the centre of a region of novelty and charm for the visitor from the North and
East. The intimate communion of prairie and rich forested valley, the sophistication of the
bustling little city in contrast with the rough life of the outlying ranches, the mingling
in common intercourse of such differing human elements as the Eastern tourist, the free and
easy Western townsman, the cowboy and the Indian, give rare spice to a visit long enough to
impart the spirit of a country of so many kinds of appeal. The climate, too, contributes to
enjoyment. The long spring lasts from February to June. During the short summer, social life
is at its height. The fall lingers to the holidays before it gives way to a short winter, which
the Arbuckle Mountains soften by diverting the colder winds.

The pleasures are those of prairie and valley. It is a great land for riding. There is swimming,
rowing, and excellent black-bass fishing in the larger lakes. It is a region of deer and many
birds. Its altitude is about a thousand feet.

The rolling Oklahoma plateau attains in this neighborhood its pleasantest outline and variety.
Broad plains of grazing-land alternate with bare rocky heights and low mountains. The creeks
and rivers which accumulate the waters of the springs scattered widely among these prairie
hills are outlined by winding forested belts and flowered thickets of brush. Great areas of
thin prairie yield here and there to rounded hills, some of which bear upon their summits columns
of flat rocks heaped one upon the other high enough to be seen for miles against the low horizon.

These, which are known as the Chimney Hills, for many years have been a cause of speculation
among the settlers who have nearly replaced the Indians since the State of Oklahoma replaced
the Indian Territory with which we became familiar in the geographies of earlier days. Who
were the builders of these chimneys and what was their purpose?

"At a hearing in Ardmore a few years ago before a United States court taking testimony upon
some ancient Indian depredation claims," writes Colonel R.A. Sneed, for years the superintendent
of the Platt National Park, "practically all the residents of the Chickasaw Nation, Indian
and negro, whose memories of that country extend back fifty years or more, were in attendance.
In recounting his recollections of a Comanche raid in which his master's horses were stolen,
one old negro incidentally gave a solution of the Chimney Hills which is the only one the writer
ever heard, and which probably accounts for all of them.

"He said that his master lived at Big Sulphur Springs, farthest west of any of the Chickasaws;
that the Kiowas and Comanches raided the country every summer and drove out horses or cattle
wherever they could find them unprotected; that he had often gone with his master to find these
stolen cattle; that these forages were so frequent that the Chickasaws had never undertaken
to occupy any of their lands west of Rock Creek, north of Big Sulphur Springs, nor west of
the Washita River south of the springs; that the country west of Sulphur Springs was dry, and
water was hard to find unless one knew just where to look; and that the Comanches had a custom
of marking all the springs they could find by building rock chimneys on the hills nearest to
the springs. Only one chimney would be built if the spring flowed from beneath the same hill,
but if the spring was distant from the hill two chimneys would be built, either upon the same
hill or upon two distant hills, and a sight along the two chimneys would indicate a course
toward the spring.

"The old man said that every hill in their pasture had a Comanche chimney on it and that his
master would not disturb them because he did not want to make the wild Indians mad. There never
was open war between the Chickasaws and the Comanches, but individual Chickasaws often had
trouble with Comanche hunting-parties.

"The Big Sulphur Springs on Rock Creek in the Chickasaw Nation afterward became the centre
around which the city of Sulphur was built, and after the town was grown to a population of
two thousand or more it was removed bodily to make room for the Platt National Park, around
which has been built the new city of Sulphur, which now has a population of forty-five hundred.

"Many of the Comanche monuments are extant and the great bluff above the Bromide Springs of
the national park looks out toward the north and west over a prairie that extends to the Rocky
Mountains; the monument that stood on the brow of that bluff must have been visible for many
miles to the keen vision of the Comanche who knew how to look for it."

The Indian Territory became the State of Oklahoma in 1907; the story of the white man's peaceful
invasion is one of absorbing interest; the human spectacle of to-day is complex, even kaleidoscopic.
In the thirties and forties the government had established in the territory the five civilized
Indian nations, the Cherokees, Chickasaws, Choctaws, Creeks, and Seminoles, each with its allotted
boundaries, its native government, its legislatures, and its courts. In many respects these
were foreign nations within our boundaries. Besides them, the Osage Indians had their reservation
in the north, and fragments of no less than seventeen other tribes lived on assigned territory.

Gradually white men invaded the land, purchased holdings from the Indian nations, built cities,
established businesses of many kinds, ran railroads in all directions. In time, the nations
were abolished and their remaining lands were divided up among the individuals composing them;
the Indians of these nations became American citizens; their negro slaves, for they had been
large slaveholders, received each his portion of the divided land. Then came Oklahoma.

To-day there is only one Indian reservation in the State, that of the Osages. Oil has been
found on their land and they are the wealthiest people in the world to-day, the average cash
income of each exceeding five thousand dollars a year. In a state with a total population of
two and a quarter millions live 336,000 Indians representing twenty-three tribes and 110,000
negroes descended from slaves. There has been much intermarrying between Indians and whites,
and some between Indians and blacks. Here is a mixture of races to baffle the keenest eye.

Elsewhere than in the Osage Reservation, wealth also has come to the Indians. Many have very
large incomes, large even for the rich of our Eastern cities. Asphalt also has enriched many.
Cotton is raised extensively in the southern counties. Grazing on a large scale has proved
profitable. Many Indians own costly and luxurious homes, ride in automobiles, and enter importantly
into business, politics, and the professions; these usually have more or less white blood.
Many full-bloods who have grown rich without effort possess finely furnished bedrooms, and
sleep on the floor in blankets; elaborate dining-rooms with costly table equipments, and eat
cross-legged on the kitchen floor; gas-ranges, and cook over chip fires out-of-doors; automobiles,
and ride blanketed ponies. Many wealthy men are deeply in debt because of useless luxuries
which they have been persuaded to buy.

Platt National Park lies about the centre of what was once the Chickasaw nation. It is a grazing
and a cotton country. There are thousands of Indians, many of them substantial citizens, some
men of local influence. Native dress is seldom seen.

Quoting again from my correspondence with Colonel Sneed, here is the legend of the last of
the Delawares:

"Along about 1840, a very few years after the Chickasaws and Choctaws had arrived in Indian
Territory, a small band of about sixty Delaware Indians arrived in the Territory, having roved
from Alabama through Mississippi and Missouri, and through the northwest portion of Arkansas.
Being a small band, they decided to link their fortunes with those of some other tribe of Indians,
and they first pitched their tepees with those of the Cherokees. But the Cherokee Chief and
old Chief Wahpanucka of the Delawares did not agree. So the little band of Delawares continued
rambling until they reached the Choctaw Nation, where they again tried to make terms with the
Chief of the tribe. Evidently no agreement was reached between that Chief and Wahpanucka, for
the Delawares continued their roving until they reached the Chickasaw Nation, where they remained.

"Old Chief Wahpanucka had a beautiful daughter whose name was Deerface; two of the Delaware
braves were much in love with her, but Deerface could not decide which one of these warriors
she should take to become Chief after the death of Wahpanucka.

"Chief Wahpanucka called the two warriors before him and a powwow was agreed upon. The council
was held around the Council Rocks (which is now a point of interest within the Platt National
Park), and a decision was reached to the effect that at a certain designated time the Delawares
should all assemble on the top of the Bromide Cliff, at the foot of which flow the now famous
Bromide and Medicine Springs, and that the two braves should ride their Indian ponies to the
edge of the cliff, which was at that time known as Medicine Bluff, and jump off to the bed
of the creek about two hundred feet below. The one who survived was to marry Deerface, and
succeed Wahpanucka as Chief of the Delawares.

"The race was run and both Indian braves made the jump from the bluff, but both were killed.
When Deerface saw this she threw herself from the bluff and died at the foot of the cliff where
her lovers had met their death. To-day her image may be seen indelibly fixed on one of the
rocks of the cliff where she fell, and the water of the Medicine Spring is supposed to be the
briny tears of the old Chief when he saw the havoc his decision had wrought. These tears, filtering
down through the cliff where the old Chief stood, are credited with being so purified that
the water of the spring which they form is possessed with remedial qualities which make it
a cure for all human ailments."

THE GRAND CANYON AND OUR NATIONAL MONUMENTS

ON THE SCENERY OF THE SOUTHWEST

To most Americans the southwest means the desert, and it is true that most of Arizona, New
Mexico, and Utah, and portions of Colorado and southern California, are arid or semiarid lands,
relieved, however, by regions of fertility and agricultural prosperity. In popular conception
the desert has been the negative of all that means beauty, richness, and sublimity; it has
been the synonym of poverty and death. Gradually but surely the American public is learning
that again popular conception is wrong, that the desert is as positive a factor in scenery
as the mountain, that it has its own glowing beauty, its own intense personality, and occasionally,
in its own amazing way, a sublimity as gorgeous, as compelling, and as emotion-provoking as
the most stupendous snow-capped range.

The American desert region includes some of the world's greatest scenery. The Grand Canyon
of the Colorado River is sunk in a plateau which, while sprinkled with scant pine, is nearly
rainless. Zion Canyon is a palette of brilliant color lying among golden sands. A score of
national monuments conserve large natural bridges, forests of petrified trees, interesting
volcanic or other phenomena of prehistoric times, areas of strange cactus growths, deposits
of the bones of monstrous reptiles, and remains of a civilization which preceded the discovery
of America; and, in addition to these, innumerable places of remarkable magnificence as yet
unknown except to the geologist, the topographer, the miner, the Indian, and the adventurer
in unfrequented lands.

This arid country consists of rolling sandy plains as broad as seas, dotted with gray sage-brush
and relieved by bare craggy monadnocks and naked ranges which the rising and the setting sun
paints unbelievable colors. Here and there thin growths of cottonwood outline thin ribbons
of rivers, few and far between. Here and there alkali whitens the edges of stained hollows
where water lies awhile after spring cloudbursts. Here and there are salt ponds with no outlet.
Yet even in the desolation of its tawny monotony it has a fascination which is insistent and
cumulative.

But the southwest is not all desert. There are great areas of thin grazing ranges and lands
where dry farming yields fair crops. There are valleys which produce fruits and grains in abundance.
There are hamlets and villages and cities which are among the oldest in America, centres of
fertile tracts surrounded by deserts which need only water to become the richest lands on the
continent. There are regions reclaimed by irrigation where farming has brought prosperity.
In other places the plateau covers itself for hundreds of square miles with scrubby pine and cedar.

All in all, it is a land of rare charm and infinite variety.

To appreciate a region which more and more will enter into American consciousness and divide
travel with the mountains, the reader should know something of its structural history.

The southwestern part of the United States rose above sea-level and sank below it many times
during the many thousands of centuries preceding its present state, which is that of a sandy
and generally desert plateau, five to ten thousand feet in altitude. How many times it repeated
the cycle is not fully known. Some portions of it doubtless were submerged oftener than others.
Some were lifting while others were lowering. And, meantime, mountains rose and were carried
away by erosion to give place to other mountains which also wore away; river systems formed
and disappeared, lakes and inland seas existed and ceased to exist. The history of our southwest
would have been tempestuous indeed had it been compassed within say the life of one man; but,
spread over a period of time inconceivable to man, there may have been no time when it might
have seemed to be more active in change than its still hot deserts seem to-day to the traveller
in passing trains.

Other parts of the continent, no doubt, have undergone as many changes; our southwest is not
singular in that. But nowhere else, perhaps, has the change left evidences so plain and so
interesting to the unscientific observer. The page of earth's history is more easily read upon
the bare deserts of our southwest than on the grass-concealed prairies of the Mississippi Valley
or the eroded and forested ranges of the Appalachians.

Before the Rockies and the Sierra even existed, in the shallow sea which covered this part
of the continent were deposited the ooze which later, when this region rose above the sea,
became the magnificent limestones of the Grand Canyon. Muds accumulated which to-day are seen
in many highly colored shales. Long ages of erosion from outlying mountain regions spread it
thick with gravels and sands which now appear in rocky walls of deep canyons. A vast plain
was built up and graded by these deposits. The trunks of trees washed down by the floods from
far distant uplands were buried in these muds and sands, where, in the course of unnumbered
centuries, they turned to stone. They are the petrified forests of to-day.

Mountains, predecessors of our modern Sierra, lifted in the south and west, squeezed the moisture
from the Pacific winds, and turned the region into desert. This was in the Jurassic Period.
Sands thousands of feet deep were accumulated by the desert winds which are to-day the sandstones
of the giant walls of Zion Canyon.

But this was not the last desert, for again the region sank below the sea. Again for half a
million years or more ooze settled upon the sands to turn to limestone millions of years later.
In this Jurassic sea sported enormous marine monsters whose bones settled to the bottom to
be unearthed in our times, and great flying reptiles crossed its water.

Again the region approached sea-level and accumulated, above its new limestones, other beds
of sands. New river systems formed and brought other accumulations from distant highlands.
It was then a low swampy plain of enormous size, whose northern limits reached Montana, and
which touched what now is Kansas on its east. Upon the borders of its swamps, in Cretaceous
times, lived gigantic reptiles, the Dinosaurs and their ungainly companions whose bones are
found to-day in several places.

For the last time the region sank and a shallow sea swept from the Gulf of Mexico to the Arctic
Ocean. Again new limestones formed, and as the surface very slowly rose for the last time at
the close of the Cretaceous Period many new deposits were added to the scenic exhibit of to-day.

Meantime other startling changes were making which extended over a lapse of time which human
mind cannot grasp. Responding to increasing pressures from below, the continent was folding
from north to south. The miracle of the making of the Rockies was enacting.

During all of Tertiary times earth movements of tremendous energy rocked and folded the crust
and hastened change. The modern Sierra rose upon the eroded ruins of its predecessor, again
shutting off the moisture-laden western winds and turning the southwest again into a desert.
One of the mountain-building impulses spread eastward from the Sierra to the Wasatch Mountains,
but Nature's project for this vast granite-cored tableland never was realized, for continually
its central sections caved and fell. And so it happened that the eastern edge of the Sierra
and the western edge of the Wasatch Mountains became the precipitous edges, thousands of feet
high, of a mountain-studded desert which to-day is called the Great Basin. It includes southeastern
Oregon, nearly all of Nevada, the western half of Utah, and a large area in the south of California,
besides parts of Idaho and Wyoming. It is 880 miles north and south and 572 miles wide. Its
elevation is five thousand feet, more or less, and its area more than two hundred thousand
square miles.

This enormous bowl contained no outlet to the sea, and the rivers which flowed into it from
all its mountainous borders created a prehistoric lake with an area of fifty-four thousand
square miles which was named Lake Bonneville after the army officer whose adventures in 1833
were narrated by Washington Irving; but it was Fremont who first clearly described it. Lake
Bonneville has evaporated and disappeared, but in its place are many salty lakes, the greatest
of which is Great Salt Lake in Utah. Attenuated rivers still flow into the Great Basin, but
are lost in their sands. The greatest of these, the Mohave River, is a hundred miles long,
but is not often seen because it hides its waters chiefly under the surface sands. Lake Bonneville's
prehistoric beaches exist to-day. Transcontinental passengers by rail cross its ancient bed,
but few know it.

The Great Basin to-day is known to travellers principally by the many lesser deserts which
compose it, deserts separated from each other by lesser mountain ranges and low divides. Its
southern and southeastern boundaries are the plateaus and mountains which form the northern
watershed of the muddy Colorado River and its confluents. South of the Colorado, the plateaus
of New Mexico, Arizona, and southern California gradually subside to the Rio Grande.

During this period and the Quaternary which followed it, volcanoes appeared in many places;
their dead cones diversify our modern landscape. It was during the Quaternary Period, in whose
latter end lives man, that erosion dug the mighty canyons of our great southwest. The Colorado
was sweeping out the Grand Canyon at the same time that, far in the north, the glaciers of
the Great Ice Age were carving from Algonkian shales and limestones the gorgeous cirques and
valleys of Glacier National Park.

XVI

A PAGEANT OF CREATION

GRAND CANYON NATIONAL PARK, ARIZONA. AREA, 958 SQUARE MILES

There is only one Grand Canyon. It lies in northern Arizona, and the Colorado River, one of
the greatest of American rivers, flows through its inner gorge. It must not be confused with
the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone, or with any of the grande cañons which the Spaniards so
named because they were big canyons.

The Grand Canyon is 217 miles long, 8 to 12 miles wide at the rim, and more than a mile deep.
It is the Colossus of canyons, by far the hugest example of stream erosion in the world. It
is gorgeously colored. It is by common consent the most stupendous spectacle in the world.
It may be conceived as a mountain range reversed. Could its moulded image, similarly colored,
stand upon the desert floor, it would be a spectacle second only to the vast mould itself.

More than a hundred thousand persons visit the Grand Canyon each year. In other lands it is
our most celebrated scenic possession. It was made a national park in 1919.

I

The Grand Canyon is not of America but of the world. Like the Desert of Sahara and the monster
group of the Himalayas, it is so entirely the greatest example of its kind that it refuses
limits. This is true of it also as a spectacle; far truer, in fact, for, if it is possible
to compare things so dissimilar, in this respect certainly it will lead all others. None see
it without being deeply moved--all to silence, some even to tears. It is charged to the rim
with emotion; but the emotion of the first view varies. Some stand astounded at its vastness.
Others are stupefied and search their souls in vain for definition. Some tremble. Some are
uplifted with a sense of appalling beauty. For a time the souls of all are naked in the presence.

This reaction is apparent in the writings of those who have visited it; no other spectacle
in America has inspired so large a literature. Joaquin Miller found it fearful, full of glory,
full of God. Charles Dudley Warner pronounced it by far the most sublime of earthly spectacles.
William Winter saw it a pageant of ghastly desolation. Hamlin Garland found its lines chaotic
and disturbing but its combinations of color and shadow beautiful. Upon John Muir it bestowed
a new sense of earth's beauty.

Marius R. Campbell, whose geological researches have familiarized him with Nature's scenic
gamut, told me that his first day on the rim left him emotionally cold; it was not until he
had lived with the spectacle that realization slowly dawned. I think this is the experience
of very many, a fact which renders still more tragic a prevailing public assumption that the
Grand Canyon is a one-day stop in a transcontinental journey.

It is not surprising that wonder is deeply stirred by its vastness, its complexity, and the
realization of Nature's titanic labor in its making. It is far from strange that extreme elation
sometimes follows upon a revelation so stupendous and different. That beauty so extraordinary
should momentarily free emotion from control is natural enough. But why the expressions of
repulsion not infrequently encountered upon the printed pages of the past? I have personally
inquired of many of our own day without finding one, even among the most sensitive, whom it
repelled. Perhaps a clew is discovered in the introductory paragraphs of an inspired word-picture
which the late Clarence E. Dutton hid in a technical geological paper of 1880. "The lover of
nature," he wrote, "whose perceptions have been trained in the Alps, in Italy, Germany, or
New England, in the Appalachians or Cordilleras, in Scotland or Colorado, would enter this
strange region with a shock and dwell there with a sense of oppression, and perhaps with horror.
Whatsoever things he had learned to regard as beautiful and noble he would seldom or never
see, and whatsoever he might see would appear to him as anything but beautiful or noble. Whatsoever
might be bold or striking would seem at first only grotesque. The colors would be the very
ones he had learned to shun as tawdry or bizarre. The tones and shades, modest and tender,
subdued yet rich, in which his fancy had always taken special delight, would be the ones which
are conspicuously absent."

I suspect that this repulsion, this horror, as several have called it, was born of the conventions
of an earlier generation which bound conceptions of taste and beauty, as of art, dress, religion,
and human relations generally, in shackles which do not exist in these days of individualism
and broad horizons. To-day we see the Grand Canyon with profound astonishment but without prejudice.
Its amazing size, its bewildering configuration, its unprecedented combinations of color affect
the freed and elated consciousness of our times as another and perhaps an ultimate revelation
in nature of law, order, and beauty.

In these pages I shall make no attempt to describe the Grand Canyon. Nature has written her
own description, graving it with a pen of water in rocks which run the series of the eternal
ages. Her story can be read only in the original; translations are futile. Here I shall try
only to help a little in the reading.

II

The Grand Canyon was cut by one of the great rivers of the continent, the Colorado, which enters
Arizona from the north and swings sharply west; thence it turns south to form most of Arizona's
western boundary, and a few miles over the Mexican border empties into the head of the Gulf
of California. It drains three hundred thousand square miles of Arizona, Utah, Wyoming, and
Colorado. It is formed in Utah by the confluence of the Green and the Grand Rivers. Including
the greater of these, the Green River, it makes a stream fifteen hundred miles in length which
collects the waters of the divide south and east of the Great Basin and of many ranges of the
Rocky Mountain system. The Grand River, for its contribution, collects the drainage of the
Rockies' mighty western slopes in Colorado.

The lower reaches of these great tributaries and practically all of the Colorado River itself
flow through more than five hundred miles of canyons which they were obliged to dig through
the slowly upheaving sandstone plateaus in order to maintain their access to the sea. Succeeding
canyons bear names designating their scenic or geologic character. Progressively southward
they score deeper into the strata of the earth's crust until, as they approach their climax,
they break through the bottom of the Paleozoic limestone deep into the heart of the Archean
gneiss. This limestone trench is known as the Marble Canyon, the Archean trench as the Granite
Gorge. The lower part of the Marble Canyon and all the Granite Gorge, together with their broad,
vividly colored and fantastically carved upper canyon ten miles across from rim to rim, a mile
high from water to rim-level, the climax of the world of canyons and the most gorgeous spectacle
on earth, is the Grand Canyon of the Colorado. It lies east and west in the northern part of
the State.

To comprehend it, recall one of those ditches which we all have seen crossing level fields
or bordering country roads. It is broad from rim to rim and deeply indented by the side washes
which follow heavy showers. Its sides descend by terraces, steep in places with gentle slopes
between the steeps, and on these slopes are elevations of rock or mud which floods have failed
to wash away. Finally, in the middle, is the narrow trench which now, in dry weather, carries
a small trickling stream. Not only does this ditch roughly typify the Grand Canyon, reproducing
in clumsy, inefficient miniature the basic characteristics of its outline, but it also is identical
in the process of its making.

Imagining it in cross-section, we find its sides leading down by successive precipices to broad
intermediate sloping surfaces. We find upon these broad surfaces enormous mesas and lofty,
ornately carved edifices of rock which the floods have left standing. We find in its middle,
winding snakelike from side to side, the narrow gorge of the river.

The parallel goes further. It is not at all necessary to conceive that either the wayside ditch
or the Grand Canyon was once brimful of madly dashing waters. On the contrary, neither may
ever have held much greater streams than they hold to-day. In both cases the power of the stream
has been applied to downward trenching; the greater spreading sides were cut by the erosion
of countless side streamlets resulting temporarily from periods of melting snow or of local
rainfall. It was these streamlets which cut the side canyons and left standing between them
the bold promontories of the rim. It was these streamlets, working from the surface, which
separated portions of these promontories from the plateau and turned them into isolated mesas.
It was the erosion of these mesas which turned many of them into the gigantic and fantastic
temples and towers which rise from the canyon's bowl.

Standing upon the rim and overlooking miles of these successive precipices and intermediate
templed levels, we see the dark gorge of the granite trench, and, deep within it, wherever
its windings permit a view of its bottom, a narrow ribbon of brown river. This is the Colorado--a
rill; but when we have descended six thousand feet of altitude to its edge we find it a rushing
turbulent torrent of muddy water. Its average width is three hundred feet; its average depth
thirty feet. It is industriously digging the Grand Canyon still deeper, and perhaps as rapidly
as it ever dug since it entered the granite.

Developing the thought in greater detail, let us glance at the illustrations of this chapter
and at any photographs which may be at hand, and realization will begin. Let imagination dart
back a million years or more to the time when this foreground rim and that far run across the
vast chasm are one continuous plain; perhaps it is a pine forest, with the river, no greater
than to-day, perhaps not so great, winding through it close to the surface level. As the river
cuts downward, the spring floods following the winter snows cave in its banks here and there,
forming sharply slanted valleys which enclose promontories between them. Spring succeeds spring,
and these side valleys deepen and eat backward while the promontories lengthen and grow. The
harder strata resist the disintegration of alternate heat and cold, and, while always receding,
hold their form as cliffs; the softer strata between the cliffs crumbles and the waste of spring
waters spreads them out in long flattened slopes. The centuries pass. The ruin buries itself
deep in the soft sandstone. The side valleys work miles back into the pine forest. Each valley
acquires its own system of erosion; into each, from either side, enter smaller valleys which
themselves are eating backward into the promontories.

The great valley of the Colorado now has broad converging cliff-broken sides. Here and there
these indentations meet far in the background behind the promontories, isolating island-like mesas.

The rest of the story is simple repetition. Imagine enough thousands of centuries and you will
imagine the Grand Canyon. Those myriad temples and castles and barbaric shrines are all that
the rains and melting snows have left of noble mesas, some of which, when originally isolated,
enclosed, as the marble encloses the future statue, scores of the lesser but mighty structures
which compose the wonder city of the depths.

These architectural operations of Nature may be seen to-day in midway stages. Find on the map
the Powell Plateau in the northwest of the canyon. Once it was continuous with the rim, a noble
promontory. It was cut out from the rim perhaps within the existence of the human race. A few
hundred thousand years from now it will be one or more Aladdin palaces.

Find on the map the great Walhalla Plateau in the east of the canyon. Note that its base is
nearly separated from the parental rim; a thousand centuries or so and its isolation will be
complete. Not long after that, as geologists reckon length of time, it will divide into two
plateaus; it is easy to pick the place of division. The tourist of a million years hence will
see, where now it stands, a hundred glowing castles.

Let us look again at our photographs, which now we can see with understanding. To realize the
spectacle of the canyon, let imagination paint these strata their brilliant colors. It will
not be difficult; but here again we must understand.

It is well to recall that these strata were laid in the sea, and that they hardened into stone
when the earth's skin was pushed thousands of feet in air. Originally they were the washings
of distant highlands brought down by rivers; the coloring of the shales and sandstones is that
of the parent rock modified, no doubt, by chemical action in sea-water. The limestone, product
of the sea, is gray.

As these differently colored strata were once continuous across the canyon, it follows that
their sequence is practically identical on both sides of the canyon. That the colors seem confused
is because, viewing the spectacle from an elevation, we see the enormous indentations of the
opposite rim in broken and disorganized perspective. Few minds are patient and orderly enough
to fully disentangle the kaleidoscopic disarray, but, if we can identify the strata by form
as well as color, we can at least comprehend without trouble our principal outline; and comprehension
is the broad highway to appreciation.

To identify these strata, it is necessary to call them by name. The names that geologists have
assigned them have no scientific significance other than identity; they are Indian and local.

Beginning at the canyon rim we have a stalwart cliff of gray limestone known as the Kaibab
Limestone, or, conversationally, the Kaibab; it is about seven hundred feet thick. Of this
product of a million years of microscopic life and death on sea-bottoms is formed the splendid
south-rim cliffs from which we view the chasm. Across the canyon it is always recognizable
as the rim.

Below the talus of the Kaibab is the Coconino sandstone, light yellowish-gray, coarse of grain,
the product of swift currents of untold thousands of centuries ago. This stratum makes a fine
bright cliff usually about four hundred feet in thickness, an effective roofing for the glowing
reds of the depths.

Immediately below the Coconino are the splendid red shales and sandstones known as the Supai
formation. These lie in many strata of varying shades, qualities, and thicknesses, but all,
seen across the canyon, merging into a single enormous horizontal body of gorgeous red. The
Supai measures eleven hundred feet in perpendicular thickness, but as it is usually seen in
slopes which sometimes are long and gentle, it presents to the eye a surface several times
as broad. This is the most prominent single mass of color in the canyon, for not only does
it form the broadest feature of the opposite wall and of the enormous promontories which jut
therefrom, but the main bodies of Buddha, Zoroaster, and many others of the fantastic temples
which rise from the floor.

Below the Supai, a perpendicular wall of intense red five hundred feet high forces its personality
upon every foot of the canyon's vast length. This is the famous Redwall, a gray limestone stained
crimson with the drip of Supai dye from above. Harder than the sloping sandstone above and
the shale below, it pushes aggressively into the picture, squared, perpendicular, glowing.
It winds in and out of every bay and gulf, and fronts precipitously every flaring promontory.
It roofs with overhanging eaves many a noble palace and turns many a towering monument into
a pagoda.

Next below in series is the Tonto, a deep, broad, shallow slant of dull-green and yellow shale,
which, with the thin broad sandstone base on which it rests, forms the floor of the outer canyon,
the tessellated pavement of the city of flame. Without the Tonto's green the spectacle of the
Grand Canyon would have missed its contrast and its fulness.

Through this floor the Granite Gorge winds its serpentine way, two thousand feet deep, dark
with shadows, shining in places where the river swings in view.

These are the series of form and color. They occur with great regularity except in several
spots deep in the canyon where small patches of gleaming quartzites and brilliant red shales
show against the dark granite; the largest of these lies in the depths directly opposite El
Tovar. These rocks are all that one sees of ancient Algonkian strata which once overlay the
granite to a depth of thirteen thousand feet--more than twice the present total depth of the
canyon. The erosion of many thousands of centuries wore them away before the rocks that now
compose the floor, the temples and the precipiced walls of the great canyon were even deposited
in the sea as sand and limestone ooze, a fact that strikingly emphasizes the enormous age of
this exhibit. Geologists speak of these splashes of Algonkian rocks as the Unkar group, another
local Indian designation. There is also a similar Chuar group, which need not concern any except
those who make a close study of the canyon.

This is the picture. The imagination may realize a fleet, vivid impression from the photograph.
The visitor upon the rim, outline in hand, may trace its twisting elements in a few moments
of attentive observation, and thereafter enjoy his canyon as one only enjoys a new city when
he has mastered its scheme and spirit, and can mentally classify its details as they pass before
him.

To one thus prepared, the Grand Canyon ceases to be the brew-pot of chaotic emotion and becomes
the orderly revelation of Nature, the master craftsman and the divine artist.

III

Entrance is from the south. The motor-road to Grand View is available for most of the year.
The railroad to the El Tovar Hotel serves the year around, for the Grand Canyon is an all-year
resort. There is a short winter of heavy snows on the rim, but not in the canyon, which may
be descended at all seasons. Both routes terminate on the rim. Always dramatic, the Grand Canyon
welcomes the pilgrim in the full panoply of its appalling glory. There is no waiting in the
anteroom, no sounding of trumpets, no ceremony of presentation. He stands at once in the presence.

Most visitors have bought tickets at home which permit only one day's stay. The irrecoverable
sensation of the first view is broken by the necessity for an immediate decision upon how to
spend that day, for if one is to descend horseback to the river he must engage his place and
don his riding-clothes at once. Under this stress the majority elect to remain on the rim for
reasons wholly apart from any question of respective merit.

After all, if only one day is possible, it is the wise decision. With the rim road, over which
various drives are scheduled, and several commanding points to whose precipices one may walk,
it will be a day to remember for a lifetime. One should not attempt too much in this one day.
It is enough to sit in the presence of the spectacle. Fortunate is he who may stay another
day and descend the trail into the streets of this vast city; many times fortunate he who may
live a little amid its glories.

Because of this general habit of "seeing" the Grand Canyon between sunrise and sunset, the
admirable hotel accommodations are not extensive, but sufficient. There are cottage accommodations
also at cheaper rates. Hotels and cottages are well patronized summer and winter. Upon the
rim are unique rest-houses, in one of which is a high-power telescope. There is a memorial
altar to John Wesley Powell, the first explorer of the canyon. There is an excellent reproduction
of a Hopi house. There is an Indian camp. The day's wanderer upon the rim will not lack entertainment
when his eyes turn for rest from the chasm.

From the hotel, coaches make regular trips daily to various viewpoints. Hopi Point, Mohave
Point, Yavapai Point, and Grandeur Point may all be visited; the run of eight miles along the
famous Hermit Rim Road permits brief stops at Hopi, Mohave, and Pima Points. Automobiles also
make regular runs to the gorgeous spectacle from Grand View. Still more distant points may
be made in private or hired cars. Navajo Point offers unequalled views up and down the full
length of the canyon, and an automobile-road will bring the visitor within easy reach of Bass
Camp near Havasupai Point in the far west of the reservation.

Many one-day visitors take none of these stage and automobile trips, contented to dream the
hours away upon Yavapai or Hopi Points near by. After all, it is just as well. A single viewpoint
cannot be mastered in one's first day, so what's the use of others? On the other hand, seeing
the same view from different viewpoints miles apart will enrich and elaborate it. Besides,
one should see many views in order to acquire some conception, however small, of the intricacy
and grandeur of the canyon. Besides, these trips help to rest the eyes and mind. It is hard
indeed to advise the unlucky one-day visitor. It is as if a dyspeptic should lead you to an
elaborate banquet of a dozen courses, and say: "I have permission to eat three bites. Please
help me choose them."

Wherever he stands upon the rim the appalling silence hushes the voice to whispers. No cathedral
imposes stillness so complete. It is sacrilege to speak, almost to move. And yet the Grand
Canyon is a moving picture. It changes every moment. Always shadows are disappearing here,
appearing there; shortening here, lengthening there. With every passing hour it becomes a different
thing. It is a sun-dial of monumental size.

In the early morning the light streams down the canyon from the east. Certain promontories
shoot miles into the picture, gleaming in vivid color, backed by dark shadows. Certain palaces
and temples stand in magnificent relief. The inner gorge is brilliantly outlined in certain
places. As the day advances these prominences shift positions; some fade; some disappear; still
others spring into view.

As midday approaches the shadows fade; the promontories flatten; the towering edifices move
bodily backward and merge themselves in the opposite rim. There is a period of several hours
when the whole canyon has become a solid wall; strata fail to match; eye and mind become confused;
comprehension is baffled by the tangle of disconnected bands of color; the watcher is distressed
by an oppressive sense of helplessness.

It is when afternoon is well advanced that the magician sun begins his most astonishing miracles
in the canyon's depths. Out from the blazing wall, one by one, step the mighty obelisks and
palaces, defined by ever-changing shadows. Unsuspected promontories emerge, undreamed-of gulfs
sink back in the perspective. The serpentine gorge appears here, fades there, seems almost
to move in the slow-changing shadows. I shall not try even to suggest the soul-uplifting spectacle
which culminates in sunset.

Days may be spent upon the rim in many forms of pleasure; short camping trips may be made to
distant points.

The descent into the canyon is usually made from El Tovar down the Bright Angel Trail, so called
because it faces the splendid Bright Angel Canyon of the north side, and by the newer Hermit
Trail which starts a few miles west. There are trails at Grand View, eight miles east, and
at Bass Camp, twenty-four miles west of El Tovar, which are seldom used now. All go to the
bottom of the Granite Gorge. The commonly used trails may be travelled afoot by those physically
able, and on mule-back by any person of any age who enjoys ordinary health. The Bright Angel
trip returns the traveller to the rim at day's end. The Hermit Trail trip camps him overnight
on the floor of the canyon at the base of a magic temple. The finest trip of all takes him
down the Hermit Trail, gives him a night in the depths, and returns him to the rim by the Bright
Angel Trail. Powell named Bright Angel Creek during that memorable first passage through the
Canyon. He had just named a muddy creek Dirty Devil, which suggested, by contrast, the name
of Bright Angel for a stream so pure and sparkling.

The Havasupai Indian reservation may be visited in the depths of Cataract Canyon by following
the trail from Bass Camp.

The first experience usually noted in the descent is the fine quality of the trail, gentle
in slope and bordered by rock on the steep side. The next experience is the disappearance of
the straight uncompromising horizon of the opposite rim, which is a distinctive feature of
every view from above. As soon as the descent fairly begins, even the smaller bluffs and promontories
assume towering proportions, and, from the Tonto floor, the mighty elevations of Cheops, Isis,
Zoroaster, Shiva, Wotan, and the countless other temples of the abyss become mountains of enormous
height.

From the river's side the elevations of the Granite Gorge present a new series of precipitous
towers, back of which in places loom the tops of the painted palaces, and back of them, from
occasional favored view-spots, the far-distant rim. Here, and here only, does the Grand Canyon
reveal the fulness of its meaning.

IV

The Grand Canyon was discovered in 1540 by El Tovar, one of the captains of Cardenas, in charge
of one of the expeditions of the Spanish explorer, Diaz, who was hunting for seven fabled cities
of vast wealth. "They reached the banks of a river which seemed to be more than three or four
leagues above the stream that flowed between them." It was seen in 1776 by a Spanish priest
who sought a crossing and found one at a point far above the canyon; this still bears the name
Vado de los Padres.

By 1840 it was probably known to the trappers who overran the country. In 1850 Lieutenant Whipple,
surveying for a Pacific route, explored the Black Canyon and ascended the Grand Canyon to Diamond
Creek.

In 1857 Lieutenant Ives, sent by the War Department to test the navigability of the Colorado,
ascended as far as the Virgin River in a steamboat which he had shipped in pieces from Philadelphia.
From there he entered the Grand Canyon afoot, climbed to the rim, and, making a detour, encountered
the river again higher up. In 1867 James White was picked up below the Virgin River lashed
to floating logs. He said that his hunting-party near the head of the Colorado River, attacked
by Indians, had escaped upon a raft. This presently broke up in the rapids and his companions
were lost. He lashed himself to the wreckage and was washed through the Grand Canyon.

About this time Major John Wesley Powell, a school-teacher who had lost an arm in the Civil
War, determined to explore the great canyons of the Green and Colorado Rivers. Besides the
immense benefit to science, the expedition promised a great adventure. Many lives had been
lost in these canyons and wonderful were the tales told concerning them. Indians reported that
huge cataracts were hidden in their depths and that in one place the river swept through an
underground passage.

Nevertheless, with the financial backing of the State institutions of Illinois and the Chicago
Academy of Science, Powell got together a party of ten men with four open boats, provisions
for ten months, and all necessary scientific instruments. He started above the canyons of the
Green River on May 24, 1869.

There are many canyons on the Green and Colorado Rivers. They vary in length from eight to
a hundred and fifty miles, with walls successively rising from thirteen hundred to thirty-five
hundred feet in height. The climax of all, the Grand Canyon, is two hundred and seventeen miles
long, with walls six thousand feet in height.

On August 17, when Powell and his adventurers reached the Grand Canyon, their rations had been
reduced by upsets and other accidents to enough musty flour for ten days, plenty of coffee,
and a few dried apples. The bacon had spoiled. Most of the scientific instruments were in the
bottom of the river. One boat was destroyed. The men were wet to the skin and unable to make
a fire. In this plight they entered the Grand Canyon, somewhere in whose depths a great cataract
had been reported.

The story of the passage is too long to tell here. Chilled, hungry, and worn, they struggled
through it. Often they were obliged to let their boats down steep rapids by ropes, and clamber
after them along the slippery precipices. Often there was nothing to do but to climb into their
boats and run down long foaming slants around the corners of which death, perhaps, awaited.
Many times they were upset and barely escaped with their lives. With no wraps or clothing that
were not soaked with water, there were nights when they could not sleep for the cold.

So the days passed and the food lessened to a few handfuls of wet flour. The dangers increased;
some falls were twenty feet in height. Finally three of the men determined to desert; they
believed they could climb the walls and that their chances would be better with the Indians
than with the canyon. Powell endeavored to dissuade them, but they were firm. He offered to
divide his flour with them, but this they refused.

These men, two Howlands, brothers, and William Dunn, climbed the canyon walls and were killed
by Indians. Two or three days later Powell and the rest of his party emerged below the Grand
Canyon, where they found food and safety.

Taught by the experience of this great adventure, Powell made a second trip two years later
which was a scientific achievement. Later on he became Director of the United States Geological
Survey.

Since then, the passage of the Grand Canyon has been made several times. R.B. Stanton made
it in 1889 in the course of a survey for a proposed railroad through the canyon; one of the
leaders of the party was drowned.

V

The history of the Grand Canyon has been industriously collected. It remains for others to
gather the legends. It is enough here to quote from Powell the Indian story of its origin.

VI

The bill creating the Grand Canyon National Park passed Congress early in 1919, and was signed
by President Wilson on February 26. This closed an intermittent campaign of thirty-three years,
begun by President Harrison, then senator from Indiana, in January, 1886, to make a national
park of the most stupendous natural spectacle in the world. Politics, private interests, and
the deliberation of governmental procedure were the causes of delay. A self-evident proposition
from the beginning, it illustrates the enormous difficulties which confront those who labor
to develop our national-parks system. The story is worth the telling.

Senator Harrison's bill of 1886 met an instant response from the whole nation. It called for
a national park fifty-six miles long and sixty-nine miles wide. There was opposition from Arizona
and the bill failed. In 1893 the Grand Canyon National Forest was created. In 1898, depredations
and unlawful seizures of land having been reported, the Secretary of the Interior directed
the Land-Office to prepare a new national-park bill. In 1899 the Land-Office reported that
the bill could not be drawn until the region was surveyed. It took the Geological Survey five
years to make the survey. The bill was not prepared because meantime it was discovered that
the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad, now the Santa Fé, owned rights which first must be eliminated.

Failing to become a national park, President Roosevelt proclaimed the Grand Canyon a national
monument in 1908. In 1909 a bill was introduced entitling Ralph H. Cameron to build a scenic
railway along the canyon rim, which created much adverse criticism and failed. In 1910 the
American Scenic and Historic Preservation Society proposed a bill to create the Grand Canyon
a national park of large size. The Geological Survey, to which it was referred, recommended
a much smaller area. By the direction of President Taft, Senator Flint introduced a national-park
bill which differed from both suggestions. The opposition of grazing interests threw it into
the hands of conferees. In 1911 Senator Flint introduced the conferees' bill, but it was opposed
by private interests and failed.

Meantime the country became aroused. Patriotic societies petitioned for a national park, and
the National Federation of Women's Clubs began an agitation. The Department of the Interior
prepared a map upon which to base a bill, and for several years negotiated with the Forest
Service, which administered the Grand Canyon as a national monument, concerning boundaries.
Finally the boundaries were reduced to little more than the actual rim of the canyon, and a
bill was prepared which Senator Ashurst introduced in February, 1917. It failed in committee
in the House owing to opposition from Arizona. It was the same bill, again introduced by Senator
Ashurst in the new Congress two months later, which finally passed the House and became a law
in 1919; but it required a favoring resolution by the Arizona legislature to pave the way.

Meantime many schemes were launched to utilize the Grand Canyon for private gain. It was plastered
thickly with mining claims, though the Geological Survey showed that it contained no minerals
worth mining; mining claims helped delay. Schemers sought capital to utilize its waters for
power. Railroads were projected. Plans were drawn to run sightseeing cars across it on wire
cables. These were the interests, and many others, which opposed the national park.

XVII

THE RAINBOW OF THE DESERT

ZION NATIONAL MONUMENT, SOUTHERN UTAH. AREA, 120 SQUARE MILES

When, in the seventies, Major J.W. Powell, the daring adventurer of the Grand Canyon, faced
Salt Lake City on his return from one of his notable geological explorations of the southwest,
he laid his course by a temple of rock "lifting its opalescent shoulders against the eastern
sky." His party first sighted it across seventy miles of a desert which "rose in a series of
Cyclopean steps." When, climbing these, they had seen the West Temple of the Virgin revealed
in the glory of vermilion body and shining white dome, and had gazed between the glowing Gates
of Little Zion into the gorgeous valley within, these scenery-sated veterans of the Grand Canyon
and the Painted Desert passed homeward profoundly impressed and planning quick return.

No wonder that Brigham Young, who had visited it many years before with a party of Mormons
seeking a refuge in event of Indian raids or of exile from their Zion, Salt Lake City, had
looked upon its glory as prophetic, and named it Little Zion.

Geologists found the spot a fruitful field of study. They found it also a masterpiece of desert
beauty.

"Again we are impressed with the marvellous beauty of outline, the infinite complication of
these titanic buttes," wrote F.S. Dellenbaugh, topographer of the Powell party, on his second
visit. "It is doubtful if in this respect the valley has its equal. Not even the Grand Canyon
offers a more varied spectacle; yet all is welded together in a superb ensemble."

"Nothing can exceed the wondrous beauty of Little Zion Canyon," wrote C.E. Dutton. "In its
proportions it is about equal to Yosemite, but in the nobility and beauty of its sculptures
there is no comparison. It is Hyperion to a Satyr. No wonder the fierce Mormon zealot who named
it was reminded of the Great Zion on which his fervid thoughts were bent, of 'houses not built
with hands, eternal in the heavens.'"

And Doctor G.K. Gilbert, whose intimate study of its recesses has become a geological classic,
declared it "the most wonderful defile" that it had been even his experienced fortune to behold.

Technical literature contains other outbursts of enthusiastic admiration, some of eloquence,
hidden, however, among pages so incomprehensible to the average lover of the sublime in Nature
that the glory of Little Zion was lost in its very discovery. So remote did it lie from the
usual lines of travel and traffic that, though its importance resulted in its conservation
as a national monument in 1909, it was six or seven years more before its fame as a spectacle
of the first order began to get about. The tales of adventurous explorers, as usual, were discounted.
It was not until agencies seeking new tourist attractions sent parties to verify reports that
the public gaze was centred upon the canyon's supreme loveliness.

To picture Zion one must recall that the great plateau in which the Virgin River has sunk these
canyons was once enormously higher than now. The erosion of hundreds of thousands, or, if you
please, millions of years, has cut down and still is cutting down the plateau. These "Cyclopean
steps," each step the thickness of a stratum or a series of strata of hardened sands, mark
progressive stages in the decomposition of the whole.

Little Zion Canyon is an early stage in Nature's process of levelling still another sandstone
step, that is all; this one fortunately of many gorgeous hues. From the top of this layer we
may look down thousands of vertical feet into the painted canyon whose river still is sweeping
out the sands that Nature chisels from the cliffs; or from the canyon's bottom we may look
up thousands of feet to the cliffed and serrated top of the doomed plateau. These ornate precipices
were carved by trickling water and tireless winds. These fluted and towered temples of master
decoration were disclosed when watery chisels cut away the sands that formerly had merged them
with the ancient rock, just as the Lion of Lucerne was disclosed for the joy of the world when
Thorwaldsen's chisel chipped away the Alpine rock surrounding its unformed image.

The colors are even more extraordinary than the forms. The celebrated Vermilion Cliff, which
for more than a hundred miles streaks the desert landscape with vivid red, here combines spectacularly
with the White Cliff, another famous desert feature--two thousand feet of the red surmounted
by a thousand feet of the white. These constitute the body of color.

But there are other colors. The Vermilion Cliff rests upon the so-called Painted Desert stratum,
three hundred and fifty feet of a more insistent red relieved by mauve and purple shale. That
in turn rests upon a hundred feet of brown conglomerate streaked with gray, the grave of reptiles
whose bones have survived a million years or more. And that rests upon the greens and grays
and yellows of the Belted Shales.

Nor is this all, for far in the air above the wonderful White Cliff rise in places six hundred
feet of drab shales and chocolate limestones intermixed with crimsons whose escaping dye drips
in broad vertical streaks across the glistening white. And even above that, in places, lie
remnants of the mottled, many-colored beds of St. Elmo shales and limestones in whose embrace,
a few hundred miles away, lie embedded the bones of many monster dinosaurs of ages upon ages ago.

Through these successive layers of sands and shales and limestones, the deposits of a million
years of earth's evolution, colored like a Roman sash, glowing in the sun like a rainbow, the
Virgin River has cut a vertical section, and out of its sides the rains of centuries of centuries
have detached monster monoliths and temples of marvellous size and fantastic shape, upon whose
many-angled surfaces water and wind have sculptured ten thousand fanciful designs and decorations.

The way in to this desert masterpiece of southern Utah is a hundred miles of progressive preparation.
From railroad to canyon there is not an unuseful mile or hour. It is as if all were planned,
step by step, to make ready the mind of the traveller to receive the revelation with fullest
comprehension.

To one approaching who does not know the desert, the motion-picture on the screen of the car-window
is exciting in its mystery. These vast arid bottomlands of prehistoric Lake Bonneville, girded
by mountain groups and ranges as arid as the sands from which they lift their tawny sides,
provoke suggestive questions of the past.

In this receptive mood the traveller reaches Lund and an automobile. The ride to Cedar City,
where he spends the night, shows him the sage-dotted desert at close range. His horizon is
one of bare, rugged mountains. In front of him rise the "Cyclopean steps" in long, irregular,
deeply indented sweeps. The vivid Pink Cliff, which, had it not long since been washed away
from Little Zion, would have added another tier of color to its top, here, on the desert, remains
a distant horizon. The road climbs Lake Bonneville's southern shore, and, at Cedar City, reaches
the glorified sandstones.

From Cedar City to the canyon one sweeps through Mormon settlements founded more than sixty
years ago, a region of stream-watered valleys known of old as Dixie. The road is part of the
Arrowhead Trail, once in fact a historic trail, now a motor-highway between Salt Lake and Los
Angeles. The valleys bloom. Pomegranates, figs, peaches, apricots, melons, walnuts, and almonds
reach a rare perfection. Cotton, which Brigham Young started here as an experiment in 1861,
is still grown. Lusty cottonwood-trees line the banks of the little rivers. Cedars dot the
valleys and cover thickly the lower hills. And everywhere, on every side, the arid cliffs close
in. The Pink Cliff has been left behind, but the Vermilion Cliff constantly appears. The White
Cliff enters and stays. Long stretches of road overlie one and another colored stratum; presently
the ground is prevailingly red, with here and there reaches of mauve, yellow, green, and pink.

Cedar City proves to be a quaint, straggling Mormon village with a touch of modern enterprise;
south of Cedar City the villages lack the enterprise. The houses are of a gray composition
resembling adobe, and many of them are half a century old and more. Dilapidated square forts,
reminders of pioneer struggles with the Indians, are seen here and there. Compact Mormon churches
are in every settlement, however small. The men are bearded, coatless, and wear baggy trousers,
suggestive of Holland. Bronzed and deliberate women, who drive teams and work the fields with
the men, wear old-fashioned sunbonnets. Many of these people have never seen a railroad-train.
Newspapers are scarce and long past date. Here Mormonism of the older fashion is a living religion,
affecting the routine of daily life.

Dixie is a land of plenty, but it is a foreign land. It is reminiscent, with many differences,
of an Algerian oasis. The traveller is immensely interested. Somehow these strange primitive
villages, these simple, earnest, God-fearing people, merge into unreality with the desert,
the sage-dotted mountains, the cedar-covered slopes, the blooming valleys, the colored sands,
and the vivid cliffs.

Through Bellevue, Toquerville, the ruins of Virgin City, Rockville, and finally to Springdale
winds the road. Meantime the traveller has speeded south under the Hurricane Cliff, which is
the ragged edge left when all the land west of it sank two thousand feet during some geologic
time long past. He reaches the Virgin River where it emerges from the great cliffs in whose
recesses it is born, and whence it carries in its broad muddy surge the products of their steady
disintegration.

From here on, swinging easterly up-stream, sensation hastens to its climax. Here the Hurricane
Cliff sends aloft an impressive butte painted in slanting colors and capped with black basalt.
Farther on a rugged promontory striped with vivid tints pushes out from the southern wall nearly
to the river's brink. The cliffs on both sides of the river are carved from the stratum which
geologists call the Belted Shales. Greenish-grays, brownish-yellows, many shades of bright
red, are prominent; it is hard to name a color or shade which is not represented in its horizontal
bands. "The eye tires and the mind flags in their presence," writes Professor Willis T. Lee.
"To try to realize in an hour's time the beauty and variety of detail here presented is as
useless as to try to grasp the thoughts expressed in whole rows of volumes by walking through
a library."

Far up the canyon which North Creek pushes through this banded cliff, two towering cones of
glistening white are well named Guardian Angels--of the stream which roars between their feet.
Eagle Crag, which Moran painted, looms into view. On the south appears the majestic massing
of needle-pointed towers which Powell named the Pinnacles of the Virgin. The spectacular confuses
with its brilliant variations.

At the confluence of the Virgin River and its North Fork, known of old as the Parunuweap and
the Mukuntuweap, the road sweeps northward up the Mukuntuweap. There have been differing reports
of the meaning of this word, which gave the original name to the national monument. It has
been popularly accepted as meaning "Land of God," but John R. Wallis, of St. George, Utah,
has traced it to its original Indian source. Mukuntuweap, he writes, means "Land of the Springs,"
and Parunuweap "Land of the Birds."

Reaching Springdale, at the base of the Vermilion Cliff, the traveller looks up-stream to the
valley mouth through which the river emerges from the cliffs, and a spectacle without parallel
meets his eye. Left of the gorgeous entrance rises the unbelievable West Temple of the Virgin,
and, merging with it from behind, loom the lofty Towers of the Virgin. Opposite these, and
back from the canyon's eastern brink, rises the loftier and even more majestic East Temple
of the Virgin. Between them he sees a perspective of red and white walls, domes, and pinnacles
which thrills him with expectation.

And so, fully prepared in mind and spirit, awed and exultant, he enters Zion.

Few natural objects which have been described so seldom have provoked such extravagant praise
as the West Temple. It is seen from a foreground of gliding river, cottonwood groves, and talus
slopes dotted with manzanita, sage, cedars, and blooming cactus. From a stairway of mingled
yellows, reds, grays, mauves, purples, and chocolate brown, it springs abruptly four thousand
feet. Its body is a brilliant red. Its upper third is white. It has the mass and proportions,
the dignity and grandeur, of a cathedral. It is supremely difficult to realize that it was
not designed, so true to human conception are the upright form and mass of its central structure,
the proportioning and modelling of its extensive wings and buttresses. On top of the lofty
central rectangle rests, above its glistening white, a low squared cap of deepest red. It is
a temple in the full as well as the noblest sense of the word.

The East Temple, which rises directly opposite and two miles back from the rim, is a fitting
companion. It is a thousand feet higher. Its central structure is a steep truncated cone capped
like the West Temple. Its wings are separated half-way down, one an elongated pyramid and the
other a true cone, both of magnificent size and bulk but truly proportioned to the central
mass. Phrase does not convey the suggestion of architectural calculation in both of these stupendous
monuments. One can easily believe that the Mormon prophet in naming them saw them the designed
creations of a personal deity.

A more definite conception of Nature's gigantic processes follows upon realization that these
lofty structures once joined across the canyon, stratum for stratum, color for color. The rock
that joined them, disintegrated by the frosts and rains, has passed down the muddy current
of the Virgin, down the surging tide of the Colorado, through the Grand Canyon, and into the
Pacific. Some part of these sands doubtless helped to build the peninsula of Lower California.

Passing the gates the traveller stands in a trench of nearly perpendicular sides more than
half a mile deep, half a mile wide at the bottom, a mile wide from crest to crest. The proportions
and measurements suggest Yosemite, but there is little else in common. These walls blaze with
color. On the west the Streaked Wall, carved from the White Cliff, is stained with the drip
from the red and drab and chocolate shales and limestones not yet wholly washed from its top.
It is a vivid thing, wonderfully eroded. Opposite is the Brown Wall, rich in hue, supporting
three stupendous structures of gorgeous color, two of which are known as the Mountain of the
Sun and the Watchman. Together they are the Sentinels. Passing these across a plaza apparently
broadened for their better presentation rise on the west the Three Patriarchs, Yosemite-like
in form, height, and bulk, but not in personality or color. The brilliance of this wonder-spot
passes description.

Here the canyon contracts, and we come to the comfortable hotel-camp, terminal of the automobile
journey. It is on the river side in a shady alcove of the east wall near a spring. Here horses
may be had for exploration.

A mile above the camp stands one of the most remarkable monoliths of the region. El Gobernador
is a colossal truncated dome, red below and white above. The white crown is heavily marked
in two directions, suggesting the web and woof of drapery. Directly opposite, a lesser monolith,
nevertheless gigantic, is suggestively if sentimentally called Angel's Landing. A natural bridge
which is still in Nature's workshop is one of the interesting spectacles of this vicinity.
Its splendid arch is fully formed, but the wall against which it rests its full length remains,
broken through in one spot only. How many thousands or hundreds of thousands of years will
be required to wipe away the wall and leave the bridge complete is for those to guess who will.

Here also is the valley end of a wire cable which passes upward twenty-five hundred feet to
cross a break in the wall to a forest on the mesa's top. Lumber is Dixie's most hardly furnished
need. For years sawn timbers have been cabled down into the valley and carted to the villages
of the Virgin River.

In some respects the most fascinating part of Little Zion is still beyond. A mile above El
Gobernador the river swings sharply west and doubles on itself. Raspberry Bend is far nobler
than its name implies, and the Great Organ which the river here encircles exacts no imaginative
effort. Beyond this the canyon narrows rapidly. The road has long since stopped, and soon the
trail stops. Presently the river, now a shrunken stream, concealing occasional quicksands,
offers the only footing. The walls are no less lofty, no less richly colored, and the weary
traveller works his difficult way forward.

There will come a time if he persists when he may stand at the bottom of a chasm more than
two thousand feet deep and, nearly touching the walls on either side, look up and see no sky.

"At the water's edge the walls are perpendicular," writes Doctor G.K. Gilbert, of the U.S.
Geological Survey, who first described it, "but in the deeper parts they open out toward the
top. As we entered and found our outlook of sky contracted--as we had never before seen it
between canyon cliffs--I measured the aperture above, and found it thirty-five degrees. We
had thought this a minimum, but soon discovered our error. Nearer and nearer the walls approached,
and our strip of blue narrowed down to twenty degrees, then ten, and at last was even intercepted
by the overhanging rocks. There was, perhaps, no point from which, neither forward nor backward,
could we discover a patch of sky, but many times our upward view was completely cut off by
the interlocking of the walls, which, remaining nearly parallel to each other, warped in and
out as they ascended."

Here he surprises the secret of the making of Zion.

"As a monument of denudation, this chasm is an example of downward erosion by sand-bearing
water. The principle on which the cutting depends is almost identical with that of the marble
saw, but the sand grains, instead of being embedded in rigid iron, are carried by a flexible
stream of water. By gravity they have been held against the bottom of the cut, so that they
should make it vertical, but the current has carried them, in places, against one side or the
other, and so far modified the influence of gravity that the cut undulates somewhat in its
vertical section, as well as in its horizontal."

This, then, is how Nature began, on the original surface of the plateau, perhaps with the output
of a spring shower, to dig this whole mighty spectacle for our enjoyment to-day. We may go
further. We may imagine the beginning of the titanic process that dug the millions of millions
of chasms, big and little, contributing to the mighty Colorado, that dug the Grand Canyon itself,
that reduced to the glorified thing it now is the enormous plateau of our great southwest,
which would have been many thousands of feet higher than the highest pinnacle of Little Zion
had not erosion more than counteracted the uplifting of the plateau.

Little else need be said to complete this picture. The rains and melting snows of early spring
produce mesa-top torrents which pour into the valley and hasten for a period the processes
of decorating the walls and levelling the plateau. So it happens that waterfalls of power and
beauty then enrich this wondrous spectacle. But this added beauty is not for the tourist, who
may come in comfort only after its disappearance.

But springs are many. Trickling from various levels in the walls, they develop new tributary
gorges. Gushing from the foundations, they create alcoves and grottos which are in sharp contrast
with their desert environment, enriching by dampness the colors of the sandstone and decorating
these refreshment-places with trailing ferns and flowering growths. In these we see the origin
of the Indian name, Mukuntuweap, Land of the Springs.

The Indians, however, always stood in awe of Little Zion. They entered it, but feared the night.

In 1918 President Wilson changed the name from Mukuntuweap to Zion. At the same time he greatly
enlarged the reservation. Zion National Monument now includes a large area of great and varied
desert magnificence, including the sources and canyons of two other streams besides Mukuntuweap.

XVIII

HISTORIC MONUMENTS OF THE SOUTHWEST

Eleven national monuments in the States of Arizona, New Mexico, and Colorado illustrate the
history of our southwest from the times when prehistoric man dwelt in caves hollowed in desert
precipices down through the Spanish fathers' centuries of self-sacrifice and the Spanish explorers'
romantic search for the Quivira and the Seven Cities of Cibola.

The most striking feature of the absorbing story of the Spanish occupation is its twofold inspiration.
Hand in hand the priest and the soldier boldly invaded the desert. The passion of the priest
was the saving of souls, and the motive of the soldier was the greed of gold. The priest deprecated
the soldier; the soldier despised the priest. Each used the other for the realization of his
own purposes. The zealous priest, imposing his religion upon the shrinking Indian, did not
hesitate to invoke the soldier's aid for so holy a purpose; the soldier used the gentle priest
to cloak the greedy business of wringing wealth from the frugal native. Together, they hastened
civilization.

Glancing for a moment still further back, the rapacious hordes already had gutted the rich
stores of Central America and the northern regions of South America. The rush of the lustful
conqueror was astonishingly swift. Columbus himself was as eager for gold as he was zealous
for religion. From the discovery of America scarcely twenty years elapsed before Spanish armies
were violently plundering the Caribbean Islands, ruthlessly subjugating Mexico, overrunning
Venezuela, and eagerly seeking tidings of the reputed wealth of Peru. The air was supercharged
with reports of treasure, and no reports were too wild for belief; myths, big and little, ran
amuck. El Dorado, the gilded man of rumor, became the dream, then the belief, of the times;
presently a whole nation was conceived clothed in dusted gold. The myth of the Seven Cities
of Cibola, each a city of vast treasure, the growth of years of rumor, seems to have perfected
itself back home in Spain. The twice-born myth of Quivira, city of gold, which cost thousands
of lives and hundreds of thousands of Spanish ducats, lives even to-day in remote neighborhoods
of the southwest.

Pizarro conquered Peru in 1526; by 1535, with the south looted, Spanish eyes looked longingly
northward. In 1539 Fray Marcos, a Franciscan, made a reconnaissance from the Spanish settlements
of Sonora into Arizona with the particular purpose of locating the seven cities. The following
year Coronado, at his own expense, made the most romantic exploration in human history. Spanish
expectation may be measured by the cost of this and its accompanying expedition by sea to the
Gulf of California, the combined equipment totalling a quarter million dollars of American
money of to-day. Coronado took two hundred and sixty horsemen, sixty foot-soldiers, and more
than a thousand Indians. Besides his pack-animals he led a thousand spare horses to carry home
the loot.

He sought the seven cities in Arizona and New Mexico, and found the pueblo of Zuñi, prosperous
but lacking its expected hoard of gold; he crossed Colorado in search of Quivira and found
it in Kansas, a wretched habitation of a shiftless tribe; their houses straw, he reported,
their clothes the hides of cows, meaning bison. He entered Nebraska in search of the broad
river whose shores were lined with gold--the identical year, curiously, in which De Soto discovered
the Mississippi. Many were the pueblos he visited and many his adventures and perils; but the
only treasure he brought back was his record of exploration.

This was the first of more than two centuries of Spanish expeditions. Fifty years after Coronado,
the myth of Quivira was born again; thereafter it wandered homeless, the inspiration of constant
search, and finally settled in the ruins of the ancient pueblo of Tabirá, or, as Bandelier
has it, Teypaná, New Mexico; the myth of the seven cities never wholly perished.

It is not my purpose to follow the fascinating fortunes of Spanish proselyting and conquest.
I merely set the stage for the tableaux of the national monuments.

I

The Spaniards found our semiarid southwest dotted thinly with the pueblos and its canyons hung
with the cliff-dwellings of a large and fairly prosperous population of peace-loving Indians,
who hunted the deer and the antelope, fished the rivers, and dry-farmed the mesas and valleys.
Not so advanced in the arts of civilization as the people of the Mesa Verde, in Colorado, nevertheless
their sense of form was patent in their architecture, and their family life, government, and
religion were highly organized. They were worshippers of the sun. Each pueblo and outlying
village was a political unit.

Let us first consider those national monuments which touch intimately the Spanish occupation.

GRAN QUIVIRA NATIONAL MONUMENT

Eighty miles southeast of Albuquerque, in the hollow of towering desert ranges, lies the arid
country which Indian tradition calls the Accursed Lakes. Here, at the points of a large triangle,
sprawl the ruins of three once flourishing pueblo cities, Abo, Cuaray, and Tabirá. Once, says
tradition, streams flowed into lakes inhabited by great fish, and the valleys bloomed; it was
an unfaithful wife who brought down the curse of God.

When the Spaniards came these cities were at the flood-tide of prosperity. Their combined population
was large. Tabirá was chosen as the site of the mission whose priests should trudge the long
desert trails and minister to all.

Undoubtedly, it was one of the most important of the early Spanish missions. The greater of
the two churches was built of limestone, its outer walls six feet thick. It was a hundred and
forty feet long and forty-eight feet wide. The present height of the walls is twenty-five feet.

The ancient community building adjoining the church, the main pueblo of Tabirá, has the outlines
which are common to the prehistoric pueblos of the entire southwest and persist in general
features in modern Indian architecture. The rooms are twelve to fifteen feet square, with ceilings
eight or ten feet high. Doors connect the rooms, and the stories, of which there are three,
are connected by ladders through trapdoors. It probably held a population of fifteen hundred.
The pueblo has well stood the rack of time; the lesser buildings outside it have been reduced
to mounds.

The people who built and inhabited these cities of the Accursed Lakes were of the now extinct
Piro stock. The towns were discovered in 1581 by Francisco Banchez de Chamuscado. The first
priest assigned to the field was Fray Francisco de San Miguel, this in 1598. The mission of
Tabirá was founded by Francisco de Acevedo about 1628. The smaller church was built then; the
great church was built in 1644, but was never fully finished. Between 1670 and 1675 all three
native cities and their Spanish churches were wiped out by Apaches.

Charles F. Lummis, from whom some of these historical facts are quoted, has been at great pains
to trace the wanderings of the Quivira myth. Bandelier mentions an ancient New Mexican Indian
called Tio Juan Largo, who told a Spanish explorer about the middle of the eighteenth century
that Quivira was Tabirá. Otherwise history is silent concerning the process by which the myth
finally settled upon that historic city, far indeed from its authentic home in what now is
Kansas. The fact stands, however, that as late as the latter half of the eighteenth century
the name Tabirá appeared on the official map of New Mexico. When and how this name was lost
and the famous ruined city with its Spanish churches accepted as Gran Quivira perhaps never
will be definitely known.

"Mid-ocean is not more lonesome than the plains, nor night so gloomy as that dumb sunlight,"
wrote Lummis in 1893, approaching the Gran Quivira across the desert. "The brown grass is knee-deep,
and even this shock gives a surprise in this hoof-obliterated land. The bands of antelope that
drift, like cloud shadows, across the dun landscape suggest less of life than of the supernatural.
The spell of the plains is a wondrous thing. At first it fascinates. Then it bewilders. At
last it crushes. It is intangible but resistless; stronger than hope, reason, will--stronger
than humanity. When one cannot otherwise escape the plains, one takes refuge in madness."

This is the setting of the "ghost city" of "ashen hues," that "wraith in pallid stone," the
Gran Quivira.

EL MORRO NATIONAL MONUMENT

Due west from Albuquerque, New Mexico, not far from the Arizona boundary, El Morro National
Monument conserves a mesa end of striking beauty upon whose cliffs are graven many inscriptions
cut in passing by the Spanish and American explorers of more than two centuries. It is a historical
record of unique value, the only extant memoranda of several expeditions, an invaluable detail
in the history of many. It has helped trace obscure courses and has established important departures.
To the tourist it brings home, as nothing else can, the realization of these grim romances
of other days.

El Morro, the castle, is also called Inscription Rock. West of its steepled front, in the angle
of a sharp bend in the mesa, is a large partly enclosed natural chamber, a refuge in storm.
A spring here betrays the reason for El Morro's popularity among the explorers of a semidesert
region. The old Zuñi trail bent from its course to touch this spring. Inscriptions are also
found near the spring and on the outer side of the mesa facing the Zuñi Road.

For those acquainted with the story of Spanish exploration this national monument will have
unique interest. To all it imparts a fascinating sense of the romance of those early days with
which the large body of Americans have yet to become familiar. The popular story of this romantic
period of American history, its poetry and its fiction remain to be written.

The oldest inscription is dated February 18, 1526. The name of Juan de Oñate, later founder
of Santa Fé, is there under date of 1606, the year of his visit to the mouth of the Colorado
River. One of the latest Spanish inscriptions is that of Don Diego de Vargas, who in 1692 reconquered
the Indians who rebelled against Spanish authority in 1680.

The reservation also includes several important community houses of great antiquity, one of
which perches safely upon the very top of El Morro rock.

CASA GRANDE NATIONAL MONUMENT

In the far south of Arizona not many miles north of the boundary of Sonora, there stands, near
the Gila River, the noble ruin which the Spaniards call Casa Grande, or Great House. It was
a building of large size situated in a compound of outlying buildings enclosed in a rectangular
wall; no less than three other similar compounds and four detached clan houses once stood in
the near neighborhood. Evidently, in prehistoric days, this was an important centre of population;
remains of an irrigation system are still visible.

The builders of these prosperous communal dwellings were probably Pima Indians. The Indians
living in the neighborhood to-day have traditions indicated by their own names for the Casa
Grande, the Old House of the Chief and the Old House of Chief Morning Green. "The Pima word
for green and blue is the same," Doctor Fewkes writes me. "Russell translates the old chief's
name Morning Blue, which is the same as my Morning Green. I have no doubt Morning Glow is also
correct, no doubt nearer the Indian idea which refers to sun-god. This chief was the son of
the Sun by a maid, as was also Tcuhu-Montezuma, a sun-god who, legends say, built Casa Grande."

Whatever its origin, the community was already in ruins when the Spaniards first found it.
Kino identified it as the ruin which Fray Marcos saw in 1539 and called Chichilticalli, and
which Coronado passed in 1540. The early Spanish historians believed it an ancestral settlement
of the Aztecs.

Its formal discovery followed a century and a half later. Domingo Jironza Petriz de Cruzate,
governor of Sonora, had directed his nephew, Lieutenant Juan Mateo Mange, to conduct a group
of missionaries into the desert, where Mange heard rumors from the natives of a fine group
of ruins on the banks of a river which flowed west. He reported this to Father Eusebio Francisco
Kino, the fearless and famous Jesuit missionary among the Indians from 1687 to 1711; in November,
1694, Kino searched for the ruins, found them, and said mass within the walls of the Casa Grande.

This splendid ruin is built of a natural concrete called culeche. The external walls are rough,
but are smoothly plastered within, showing the marks of human hands. Two pairs of small holes
in the walls opposite others in the central room have occasioned much speculation. Two look
east and west; the others, also on opposite walls, look north and south. Some persons conjecture
that observations were made through them of the solstices, and perhaps of some star, to establish
the seasons for these primitive people. "The foundation for this unwarranted hypothesis," Doctor
Fewkes writes, "is probably a statement in a manuscript by Father Font in 1775, that the 'Prince,'
'chief' of Casa Grande, looked through openings in the east and west walls 'on the sun as it
rose and set, to salute it.' The openings should not be confused with smaller holes made in
the walls for placing iron rods to support the walls by contractors when the ruin was repaired."

TUMACACORI NATIONAL MONUMENT

One of the best-preserved ruins of one of the finest missions which Spanish priests established
in the desert of the extreme south of Arizona is protected under the name of the Tumacacori
National Monument. It is fifty-seven miles south of Tucson, near the Mexican border. The outlying
country probably possessed a large native population.

The ruins are most impressive, consisting of the walls and tower of an old church building,
the walls of a mortuary chapel at the north end of the church, and a surrounding court with
adobe walls six feet high. These, like all the Spanish missions, were built by Indian converts
under the direction of priests, for the Spanish invaders performed no manual labor. The walls
of the church are six feet thick and plastered within. The belfry and the altar-dome are of
burned brick, the only example of brick construction among the early Spanish missions. There
is a fine arched doorway.

For many reasons, this splendid church is well worth a visit. It was founded and built about
1688 by Father Eusebio Francisco Kino, and was known as the Mission San Cayetano de Tumacacori.
About 1769 the Franciscans assumed charge, and repaired and elaborated the structure. They
maintained it for about sixty years, until the Apache Indians laid siege and finally captured
it, driving out the priests and dispersing the Papagos. About 1850 it was found by Americans
in its present condition.

NAVAJO NATIONAL MONUMENT

The boundary-line which divides Utah from Arizona divides the most gorgeous expression of the
great American desert region. From the Mesa Verde National Park on the east to Zion National
Monument on the west, from the Natural Bridges on the north to the Grand Canyon and the Painted
Desert on the south, the country glows with golden sands and crimson mesas, a wilderness of
amazing and impossible contours and indescribable charm.

Within this region, in the extreme north of Arizona, lie the ruins of three neighboring pueblos.
Richard Wetherill, who was one of the discoverers of the famous cliff-cities of the Mesa Verde,
was one of the party which found the Kit Siel (Broken Pottery) ruin in 1894 within a long crescent-shaped
cave in the side of a glowing red sandstone cliff; in 1908, upon information given by a Navajo
Indian, John Wetherill, Professor Byron Cumming, and Neil Judd located Betatakin (Hillside
House) ruin within a crescent-shaped cavity in the side of a small red canyon. Twenty miles
west of Betatakin is a small ruin known as Inscription House upon whose walls is a carved inscription
supposed to have been made by Spanish explorers who visited them in 1661.

While these ruins show no features materially differing from those of hundreds of other more
accessible pueblo ruins, they possess quite extraordinary beauty because of their romantic
location in cliffs of striking color in a region of mysterious charm.

II

But the Indian civilization of our southwest began very many centuries before the arrival of
the Spaniard, who found, besides the innumerable pueblos which were crowded with busy occupants,
hundreds of pueblos which had been deserted by their builders, some of them for centuries,
and which lay even then in ruins.

The desertion of so many pueblos with abundant pottery and other evidences of active living
is one of the mysteries of this prehistoric civilization. No doubt, with the failure of water-supplies
and other changing physical conditions, occasionally communities sought better living in other
localities, but it is certain that many of these desertions resulted from the raids of the
wandering predatory tribes of the plains, the Querechos of Bandelier's records, but usually
mentioned by him and others by the modern name of Apaches. These fierce bands continually sought
to possess themselves of the stores of food and clothing to be found in the prosperous pueblos.
The utmost cruelties of the Spanish invaders who, after all, were ruthless only in pursuit
of gold, and, when this was lacking, tolerant and even kindly in their treatment of the natives,
were nothing compared to the atrocities of these Apache Indians, who gloried in conquest.

Of the ruins of pueblos which were not identified with Spanish occupation, six have been conserved
as national monuments.

THE BANDELIER NATIONAL MONUMENT

Many centuries before the coming of the Spaniards, a deep gorge on the eastern slope of the
Sierra de los Valles, eighteen miles west of Santa Fé, New Mexico, was the home of a people
living in caves which they hollowed by enlarging erosional openings in the soft volcanic sides
of nearly perpendicular cliffs. The work was done with pains and skill. A small entrance, sometimes
from the valley floor, sometimes reached by ladder, opened into a roomy apartment which in
many cases consisted of several connecting rooms. These apartments were set in tiers or stories,
as in a modern flat-house. There were often two, sometimes three, floors. They occurred in
groups, probably representing families or clans, and some of these groups numbered hundreds.
Seen to-day, the cliff-side suggests not so much the modern apartment-house, of which it was
in a way the prehistoric prototype, as a gigantic pigeon-house.

In time these Indians emerged from the cliff and built a great semi-circular pueblo up the
valley, surrounded by smaller habitations. Other pueblos, probably still later in origin, were
built upon surrounding mesas. All these habitations were abandoned perhaps centuries before
the coming of the Spaniards. The gorge is known as the Rito de la Frijoles, which is the Spanish
name of the clear mountain-stream which flows through it. Since 1916 it has been known as the
Bandelier National Monument, after the late Adolf Francis Bandelier, the distinguished archæologist
of the southwest.

The valley is a place of beauty. It is six miles long and nowhere broader than half a mile;
its entrance scarcely admits two persons abreast. Its southern wall is the slope of a tumbled
mesa, its northern wall the vertical cliff of white and yellowish pumice in which the caves
were dug. The walls rise in crags and pinnacles many hundreds of feet. Willows, cottonwoods,
cherries, and elders grow in thickets along the stream-side, and cactus decorates the wastes.
It is reached by automobile from Santa Fé.

This national monument lies within a large irregular area which has been suggested for a national
park because of the many interesting remains which it encloses. The Cliff Cities National Park,
when it finally comes into existence, will include among its exhibits a considerable group
of prehistoric shrines of great value and unusual popular interest.

"The Indians of to-day," writes William Boone Douglass, "guard with great tenacity the secrets
of their shrines. Even when the locations have been found they will deny their existence, plead
ignorance of their meaning, or refuse to discuss the subject in any form." Nevertheless, they
claim direct descent from the prehistoric shrine-builders, many of whose shrines are here found
among others of later origin.

CHACO CANYON NATIONAL MONUMENT

For fourteen miles, both sides of a New Mexican canyon sixty-five miles equidistant from Farmington
and Gallup are lined with the ruins of very large and prosperous colonies of prehistoric people.
Most of the buildings were pueblos, many of them containing between fifty and a hundred rooms;
one, known to-day as Pueblo Bonito, must have contained twelve hundred rooms.

These ruins lie in their original desolation; little excavation, and no restoration has yet
been done. Chaco Canyon must have been the centre of a very large population. For miles in
all directions, particularly westward, pueblos are grouped as suburbs group near cities of to-day.

It is not surprising that so populous a desert neighborhood required extensive systems of irrigation.
One of these is so well preserved that little more than the repair of a dam would be necessary
to make it again effective.

MONTEZUMA CASTLE NATIONAL MONUMENT

Small though it is, Montezuma Castle is justly one of the most celebrated prehistoric ruins
in America. Its charming proportions, and particularly its commanding position in the face
of a lofty precipice, make it a spectacle never to be forgotten. It is fifty-four miles from
Prescott, Arizona.

This structure was a communal house which originally contained twenty-five rooms. The protection
of the dry climate and of the shallow cave in which it stands has well preserved it these many
centuries. Most of the rooms are in good condition. The timbers, which plainly show the hacking
of the dull primeval stone axes, are among its most interesting exhibits. The building is crescent-shaped,
sixty feet in width and about fifty feet high. It is five stories high, but the fifth story
is invisible from the front because of the high stone wall of the façade. The cliff forms the
back wall of the structure.

Montezuma's Castle is extremely old. Its material is soft calcareous stone, and nothing but
its sheltered position could have preserved it. There are many ruined dwellings in the neighborhood.

TONTO NATIONAL MONUMENT

Four miles east of the Roosevelt Dam and eighty miles east of Phoenix, Arizona, are two small
groups of cliff-dwellings which together form the Tonto National Monument. The southern group
occupies a cliff cavern a hundred and twenty-five feet across. The masonry is above the average.
The ceilings of the lower rooms are constructed of logs laid lengthwise, upon which a layer
of fibre serves as the foundation for the four-inch adobe floor of the chamber overhead.

There are hundreds of cliff-dwellings which exceed this in charm and interest, but its nearness
to an attraction like the Roosevelt Dam and glimpses of it which the traveller catches as he
speeds over the Apache Trail make it invaluable as a tourist exhibit. Thousands who are unable
to undertake the long and often arduous journeys by trail to the greater ruins, can here get
definite ideas and a hint of the real flavor of prehistoric civilization in America.

WALNUT CANYON NATIONAL MONUMENT

Thirty cliff-dwellings cling to the sides of picturesque Walnut Canyon, eight miles from Flagstaff,
Arizona. They are excellently preserved. The largest contains eight rooms. The canyon possesses
unusual beauty because of the thickets of locust which fringe the trail down from the rim.
One climbs down ladders to occasional ruins which otherwise are inaccessible. Because of its
nearness to Flagstaff several thousand persons visit this reservation yearly.

GILA CLIFFS NATIONAL MONUMENT

Fifty miles northeast of Silver City, New Mexico, a deep rough canyon in the west fork of the
Gila River contains a group of four cliff-dwellings in a fair state of preservation. They lie
in cavities in the base of an overhanging cliff of grayish-yellow volcanic rock which at one
time apparently were closed by protecting walls. When discovered by prospectors and hunters
about 1870, many sandals, baskets, spears, and cooking utensils were found strewn on the floors.
Corn-cobs are all that vandals have left.

XIX

DESERT SPECTACLES

The American desert, to eyes attuned, is charged with beauty. Few who see it from the car-window
find it attractive; most travellers quickly lose interest in its repetitions and turn back
to their novels. A little intimacy changes this attitude. Live a little with the desert. See
it in its varied moods--for every hour it changes; see it at sunrise, at midday, at sunset,
in the ghostly night, by moonlight. Observe its life--for it is full of life; its amazing vegetation;
its varied outline. Drink in its atmosphere, its history, its tradition, its romance. Open
your soul to its persuading spirit. Then, insensibly but swiftly, its flavor will enthrall
your senses; it will possess you. And once possessed, you are charmed for life. It will call
you again and again, as the sea calls the sailor and the East its devotees.

This alluring region is represented in our national parks system by reservations which display
its range. The Zion National Monument, the Grand Canyon, and the Mesa Verde illustrate widely
differing phases. The historical monuments convey a sense of its romance. There remain a few
to complete the gamut of its charms.

THE RAINBOW BRIDGE NATIONAL MONUMENT

Imagine a gray Navajo desert dotted with purple sage; huge mesas, deep red, squared against
the gray-blue atmosphere of the horizon; pinnacles, spires, shapes like monstrous bloody fangs,
springing from the sands; a floor as rough as stormy seas, heaped with tumbled rocks, red,
yellow, blue, green, grayish-white, between which rise strange yellowish-green thorny growths,
cactus-like and unfamiliar; a pathless waste, strewn with obsidian fragments, glaring in the
noon sun, more confusing than the crooked mazes of an ancient Oriental city.

Imagine shapeless masses of colored sandstone, unclimbable, barring the way; acres of polished
mottled rock tilted at angles which defy crossing; unexpected canyons whose deep, broken, red
and yellow precipices force long detours.

And everywhere color, color, color. It pervades the glowing floor, the uprising edifices. The
very air palpitates with color, insistent, irresistible, indefinable.

This is the setting of the Rainbow Bridge.

Scarcely more than a hundred persons besides Indians, they tell me, have seen this most entrancing
spectacle, perhaps, of all America. The way in is long and difficult. There are only two or
three who know it, even of those who have been there more than once, and the region has no
inhabitants to point directions among the confusing rocks. There is no water, nor any friendly
tree.

The day's ride is wearying in the extreme in spite of its fascinations. The objective is Navajo
Mountain, which, strange spectacle in this desert waste, is forested to its summit with yellow
pine above a surrounding belt of juniper and pinyon, with aspen and willows, wild roses, Indian
paint-brush, primrose, and clematis in its lower valleys. Below, the multicolored desert, deep
cut with the canyons which carry off the many little rivers.

Down one of these wild and highly colored desert canyons among whose vivid tumbled rocks your
horses pick their course with difficulty, you suddenly see a rainbow caught among the vivid
bald rocks, a slender arch so deliciously proportioned, so gracefully curved among its sharp
surroundings, that your eye fixes it steadfastly and your heart bounds with relief; until now
you had not noticed the oppression of this angled, spine-carpeted landscape.

From now on nothing else possesses you. The eccentricity of the going constantly hides it,
and each reappearance brings again the joy of discovery. And at last you reach it, dismount
beside the small clear stream which flows beneath it, approach reverently, overwhelmed with
a strange mingling of awe and great elation. You stand beneath its enormous encircling red
and yellow arch and perceive that it is the support which holds up the sky. It is long before
turbulent emotion permits the mind to analyze the elements which compose its extraordinary beauty.

Dimensions mean little before spectacles like this. To know that the span is two hundred and
seventy-eight feet may help realization at home, where it may be laid out, staked and looked
at; it exceeds a block of Fifth Avenue in New York. To know that the apex of the rainbow's
curve is three hundred and nine feet above your wondering eyes means nothing to you there;
but to those who know New York City it means the height of the Flatiron Building built three
stories higher. Choose a building of equal height in your own city, stand beside it and look
up. Then imagine it a gigantic monolithic arch of entrancing proportions and fascinating curve,
glowing in reds and yellows which merge into each other insensibly and without form or pattern.
Imagine this fairy unreality outlined, not against the murk which overlies cities, but against
a sky of desert clarity and color.

All natural bridges are created wholly by erosion. This was carved from an outstanding spur
of Navajo sandstone which lay crosswise of the canyon. Originally the stream struck full against
this barrier, swung sideways, and found its way around the spur's free outer edge. The end
was merely a matter of time. Gradually but surely the stream, sand-laden in times of flood,
wore an ever-deepening hollow in the barrier. Finally it wore it through and passed under what
then became a bridge. But meantime other agencies were at work. The rocky wall above, alternately
hot and cold, as happens in high arid lands, detached curved, flattened plates. Worn below
by the stream, thinned above by the destructive processes of wind and temperature, the window
enlarged. In time the Rainbow Bridge evolved in all its glorious beauty. Not far away is another
natural bridge well advanced in the making.

The Rainbow Bridge was discovered in 1909 by William Boone Douglass, Examiner of Surveys in
the General Land Office, Santa Fé. Following is an abstract of the government report covering
the discovery:

"The information had come to Mr. Douglass from a Paiute Indian, Mike's Boy, who later took
the name of Jim, employed as flagman in the survey of the three great natural bridges of White
Canyon. Seeing the white man's appreciation of this form of wind and water erosion, Jim told
of a greater bridge known only to himself and one other Indian, located on the north side of
the Navajo Mountain, in the Paiute Indian reservation. Bending a twig of willow in rainbow-shape,
with its ends stuck in the ground, Jim showed what his bridge looked like.

"An effort was made to reach the bridge in December. Unfortunately Jim could not be located.
On reaching the Navajo trading-post, Oljato, nothing was known of such a bridge, and the truth
of Jim's statement was questioned.

"The trip was abandoned until August of the following year, when Mr. Douglass organized a second
party at Bluff, Utah, and under Jim's guidance, left for the bridge. At Oljato the party was
augmented by Professor Cummings, and a party of college students, with John Wetherill as packer,
who were excavating ruins in the Navajo Indian Reservation. As the uninhabited and unknown
country of the bridge was reached, travel became almost impossible. All equipment, save what
was absolutely indispensable, was discarded. The whole country was a maze of box canyons, as
though some turbulent sea had suddenly solidified in rock. Only at a few favored points could
the canyon walls be scaled even by man, and still fewer where a horse might clamber. In the
sloping sandstone ledges footholds for the horses must be cut, and even then they fell, until
their loss seemed certain. After many adventures the party arrived at 11 o'clock, A.M., August
14, 1909.

"Jim had indeed made good. Silhouetted against a turquoise sky was an arch of rainbow shape,
so delicately proportioned that it seemed as if some great sculptor had hewn it from the rock.
Its span of 270 feet bridged a stream of clear, sparkling water, that flowed 310 feet below
its crest. The world's greatest natural bridge had been found as Jim had described it. Beneath
it, an ancient altar bore witness to the fact that it was a sacred shrine of those archaic
people, the builders of the weird and mysterious cliff-castles seen in the Navajo National
Monument.

"The crest of the bridge was reached by Mr. Douglass and his three assistants, John R. English,
Jean F. Rogerson, and Daniel Perkins, by lowering themselves with ropes to the south abutment,
and climbing its arch. Probably they were the first human beings to reach it.

"No Indian name for the bridge was known, except such descriptive generic terms as the Paiute
'The space under a horse's belly between its fore and hind legs,' or the 'Hole in the rock'
(nonnezoshi) of the Navajo, neither of which was deemed appropriate. While the question of
a name was still being debated, there appeared in the sky, as if in answer, a beautiful rainbow,
the 'Barahoni' of the Paiutes.

"The suitability of the name was further demonstrated by a superstition of the Navajos. On
the occasion of his second visit, the fall of the same year, Mr. Douglass had as an assistant
an old Navajo Indian named White Horse, who, after passing under the bridge, would not return,
but climbed laboriously around its end. On being pressed for an explanation, he would arch
his hand, and through it squint at the sun, solemnly shaking his head. Later, through the assistance
of Mrs. John Wetherill, an experienced Navajo linguist, Mr. Douglass learned that the formations
of the type of the bridge were symbolic rainbows, or the sun's path, and one passing under
could not return, under penalty of death, without the utterance of a certain prayer, which
White Horse had forgotten. The aged Navajo informant would not reveal the prayer for fear of
the 'Lightning Snake.'"

If your return from Rainbow Bridge carries you through Monument Valley with its miles of blazing
red structures, memory will file still another amazing sensation. Some of its crimson monsters
rise a thousand feet above the grassy plain.

NATURAL BRIDGES NATIONAL MONUMENT

Not many miles north of the Rainbow Bridge, fifty miles from Monticello in southern Utah, in
a region not greatly dissimilar in outline, and only less colorful, three natural bridges of
large size have been conserved under the title of the Natural Bridges National Monument. Here,
west of the Mesa Verde, the country is characterized by long, broad mesas, sometimes crowned
with stunted cedar forests, dropping suddenly into deep valleys. The erosion of many thousands
of centuries has ploughed the surface into winding rock-strewn canyons, great and small. Three
of these canyons are crossed by bridges stream-cut through the solid rock.

The largest, locally known as the Augusta Bridge, is named Sipapu, Gate of Heaven. It is one
of the largest natural bridges in the world, measuring two hundred and twenty-two feet in height,
with a span of two hundred and sixty-one feet. It is a graceful and majestic structure, so
proportioned and finished that it is difficult, from some points of view, to believe it the
unplanned work of natural forces. One crosses it on a level platform twenty-eight feet wide.

The other two, which are nearly its size, are found within five miles. The Kachina, which means
Guardian Spirit, is locally called the Caroline Bridge. The Owachomo, meaning Rock Mound, is
locally known as the Edwin Bridge. The local names celebrate persons who visited them soon
after they were first discovered by Emery Knowles in 1895.

They may be reached by horse and pack-train from Monticello, or Bluff, Utah. One of the five
sections of the reservation conserves two large caves.

DINOSAUR NATIONAL MONUMENT

The Age of Reptile developed a wide variety of monsters in the central regions of the continent
from Montana to the Gulf of Mexico. The dinosaurs of the Triassic and Jurassic periods sometimes
had gigantic size, the Brontosaurus attaining a length of sixty feet or more. The femur of
the Brachiosaurus exceeded six feet; this must have been the greatest of them all.

The greater dinosaurs were herbivorous. The carnivorous species were not remarkable for size;
there were small leaping forms scarcely larger than rabbits. The necessity for defense against
the flesh-eaters developed, in the smaller dinosaurs, extremely heavy armor. The stegosaur
carried huge plates upon his curved back, suggesting a circular saw; his long powerful tail
was armed with sharp spikes, and must have been a dangerous weapon. Dinosaurs roamed all over
what is now called our middle west.

In those days the central part of our land was warm and swampy. Fresh-water lagoons and sluggish
streams were bordered by low forests of palms and ferns; one must go to the tropics to find
a corresponding landscape in our times. The waters abounded in reptiles and fish. Huge winged
reptiles flew from cover to cover. The first birds were evolving from reptilian forms.

The absorbing story of these times is written in the rocks. The life forms were at their full
when the sands were laid which to-day is the wide-spread layer of sandstone which geologists
call the Morrison formation. Erosion has exposed this sandstone in several parts of the western
United States, and many have been the interesting glimpses it has afforded of that strange
period so many millions of years ago.

In the Uintah Basin of northwestern Utah, a region of bad lands crossed by the Green River
on its way to the Colorado and the Grand Canyon, the Morrison strata have been bent upward
at an angle of sixty degrees or more and then cut through, exposing their entire depth. The
country is extremely rough and bare. Only in occasional widely separated bottoms has irrigation
made farming possible; elsewhere nothing grows upon the bald hillsides.

Here, eighteen miles east of the town of Vernal, eighty acres of the exposed Morrison strata
were set aside in 1915 as the Dinosaur National Monument. These acres have already yielded
a very large collection of skeletons. Since 1908 the Carnegie Museum of Pittsburgh has been
gathering specimens of the greatest importance. The only complete skeleton of a dinosaur ever
found was taken out in 1909. The work of quarrying and removal is done with the utmost care.
The rock is chiselled away in thin layers, as no one can tell when an invaluable relic may
be found. As fast as bones are detached, they are covered with plaster of Paris and so wrapped
that breakage becomes impossible. Two years were required to unearth the skeleton of a brontosaurus.

The extraordinary massing of fossil remains at this point suggests that floods may have swept
these animals from a large area and lodged their bodies here, where they were covered with
sands. But it also is possible that this spot was merely a favorite feeding-ground. It may
be that similarly rich deposits lie hidden in many places in the wide-spread Morrison sandstone
which some day may be unearthed. The bones of dinosaurs have been found in the Morrison of
Colorado near Boulder.

PETRIFIED FOREST NATIONAL MONUMENT

For a hundred and twenty-five or thirty miles southwest of the Grand Canyon, the valley of
the Little Colorado River is known as the Painted Desert. It is a narrow plain of Carboniferous
and Triassic marls, shales, sandstones, and conglomerates, abounding in fossils, the most arid
part of Arizona; even the river's lower reaches dry up for a part of each year. But it is a
palette of brilliant colors; it will be difficult to name a tint or shade which is not vividly
represented in this gaudy floor and in the strata of the cliffs which define its northern and
eastern limits. Above and beyond these cliffs lies that other amazing desert, the Navajo country,
the land of the Rainbow Bridge and the Canyon de Chelly.

I have mentioned the Painted Desert because it is shaped like a long narrow finger pointed
straight at the Petrified Forests lying just beyond its touch. Here the country is also highly
colored, but very differently. Maroon and tawny yellow are the prevailing tints of the marls,
red and brown the colors of the sandstones. There is a rolling sandy floor crisscrossed with
canyons in whose bottoms grow stunted cedars and occasional cottonwoods. Upon this floor thousands
of petrified logs are heaped in confusion. In many places the strong suggestion is that of
a log jam left stranded by subsiding floods. Nearly all the logs have broken into short lengths
as cleanly cut as if sawn, the result of succeeding heat and cold.

Areas of petrified wood are common in many parts of the Navajo country and its surrounding
deserts. The larger areas are marked on the Geological Survey maps, and many lesser areas are
mentioned in reports. There are references to rooted stumps. The three groups in the Petrified
Forest National Monument, near the town of Adamana, Arizona, were chosen for conservation because
they are the largest and perhaps the finest; at the time, the gorgeously colored logs were
being carried away in quantities to be cut up into table-tops.

As a matter of fact, these are not forests. Most of these trees grew upon levels seven hundred
feet or more higher than where they now lie and at unknown distances; floods left them here.

The First Forest, which lies six miles south of Adamana, contains thousands of broken lengths.
One unbroken log a hundred and eleven feet long bridges a canyon forty-five feet wide, a remarkable
spectacle. In the Second Forest, which lies two miles and a half south of that, and the Third
Forest, which is thirteen miles south of Adamana and eighteen miles southeast of Holbrook,
most of the trunks appear to lie in their original positions. One which was measured by Doctor
G.H. Knowlton of the Smithsonian Institution was more than seven feet in diameter and a hundred
and twenty feet long. He estimates the average diameters at three or four feet, while lengths
vary from sixty to a hundred feet.

The coloring of the wood is variegated and brilliant. "The state of mineralization in which
most of this wood exists," writes Professor Lester F. Ward, paleobotanist, "almost places them
among the gems or precious stones. Not only are chalcedony, opals, and agates found among them,
but many approach the condition of jasper and onyx." "The chemistry of the process of petrifaction
or silicification," writes Doctor George P. Merrill, Curator of Geology in the National Museum,
"is not quite clear. Silica is ordinarily looked upon as one of the most insoluble of substances.
It is nevertheless readily soluble in alkaline solutions--i.e., solutions containing soda or
potash. It is probable that the solutions permeating these buried logs were thus alkaline,
and as the logs gradually decayed their organic matter was replaced, molecule by molecule,
by silica. The brilliant red and other colors are due to the small amount of iron and manganese
deposited together with the silica, and super-oxydized as the trunks are exposed to the air.
The most brilliant colors are therefore to be found on the surface."

The trees are of several species. All those identified by Doctor Knowlton were Araucaria, which
do not now live in the northern hemisphere. Doctor E.C. Jeffrey, of Harvard, has described
one genus unknown elsewhere.

To get the Petrified Forest into full prospective it is well to recall that these shales and
sands were laid in water, above whose surface the land raised many times, only to sink again
and accumulate new strata. The plateau now has fifty-seven hundred feet of altitude.

"When it is known," writes Doctor Knowlton, "that since the close of Triassic times probably
more than fifty thousand feet of sediments have been deposited, it is seen that the age of
the Triassic forests of Arizona can only be reckoned in millions of years--just how many it
would be mere speculation to attempt to estimate. It is certain, also, that at one time the
strata containing these petrified logs were themselves buried beneath thousands of feet of
strata of later ages, which have in places been worn away sufficiently to expose the tree-bearing
beds. Undoubtedly other forests as great or greater than those now exposed lie buried beneath
the later formations."

A very interesting small forest, not in the reservation, lies nine miles north of Adamana.

PAPAGO SAGUARO NATIONAL MONUMENT

The popular idea of a desert of dry drifting sand unrelieved except at occasional oases by
evidences of life was born of our early geographies, which pictured the Sahara as the desert
type. Far different indeed is our American desert, most of which has a few inches of rainfall
in the early spring and grows a peculiar flora of remarkable individuality and beauty. The
creosote bush seen from the car-windows shelters a few grasses which brown and die by summer,
but help to color the landscape the year around. Many low flowering plants gladden the desert
springtime, and in the far south and particularly in the far southwest are several varieties
of cactus which attain great size. The frequenter of the desert soon correlates its flora with
its other scenic elements and finds all rich and beautiful.

In southwestern Arizona and along the southern border of California this strange flora finds
its fullest expression. Here one enters a new fairy-land, a region of stinging bushes and upstanding
monsters lifting ungainly arms to heaven. In 1914, to conserve one of the many rich tracts
of desert flora, President Wilson created the Papago Saguaro National Monument a few miles
east of Phoenix, Arizona. Its two thousand and fifty acres include fine examples of innumerable
desert species in fullest development.

Among these the cholla is at once one of the most fascinating and the most exasperating. It
belongs to the prickly pear family, but there resemblance ceases. It is a stocky bush two or
three feet high covered with balls of flattened powerful sharp-pointed needles which will penetrate
even a heavy shoe. In November these fall, strewing the ground with spiny indestructible weapons.
There are many varieties of chollas and all are decorative. The tree cholla grows from seven
to ten feet in height, a splendid showy feature of the desert slopes, and the home, fortress,
and sure defense for all the birds who can find nest-room behind its bristling breastwork.

The Cereus thurberi, the pipe-organ, or candelabrum cactus, as it is variously called, grows
in thick straight columns often clumped closely together, a picturesque and beautiful creation.
Groups range from a few inches to many feet in height. One clump of twenty-two stems has been
reported, the largest stem of which was twenty feet high and twenty-two inches in diameter.

Another of picturesque appeal is the bisnaga or barrel cactus, of which there are many species
of many sizes. Like all cacti, it absorbs water during the brief wet season and stores it for
future use. A specimen the size of a flour-barrel can be made to yield a couple of gallons
of sweetish but refreshing water, whereby many a life has been saved in the sandy wastes.

But the desert's chief exhibit is the giant saguaro, the Cereus giganteus, from which the reservation
got its name. This stately cactus rises in a splendid green column, accordion-plaited and decorated
with star-like clusters of spines upon the edges of the plaits. The larger specimens grow as
high as sixty or seventy feet and throw out at intervals powerful branches which bend sharply
upward; sometimes there are as many as eight or nine of these gigantic branches.

No towering fir or spreading oak carries a more princely air. A forest of giant saguaro rising
from a painted desert far above the tangle of creosote-bush, mesquite, cholla, bisnaga, and
scores of other strange growths of a land of strange attractions is a spectacle to stir the
blood and to remember for a lifetime.

COLORADO NATIONAL MONUMENT

On the desert border of far-western Colorado near Grand Junction is a region of red sandstone
which the erosion of the ages has carved into innumerable strange and grotesque shapes. Once
a great plain, then a group of mesas, now it has become a city of grotesque monuments. Those
who have seen the Garden of the Gods near Colorado Springs can imagine it multiplied many times
in size, grotesqueness, complexity, and area; such a vision will approximate the Colorado National
Monument. The two regions have other relations in common, for as the Garden of the Gods flanks
the Rockies' eastern slopes and looks eastward to the great plains, so does the Colorado National
Monument flank the Rockies' western desert. Both are the disclosure by erosion of similar strata
of red sandstone which may have been more or less continuous before the great Rockies wrinkled,
lifted, and burst upward between them.

The rock monuments of this group are extremely highly colored. They rise in several neighboring
canyons and some of them are of great height and fantastic design. One is a nearly circular
column with a diameter of a hundred feet at the base and a height of more than four hundred feet.

Caves add to the attractions, and there are many springs among the tangled growths of the canyon
floors. There are cedars and pinyon trees. The region abounds in mule-deer and other wild animals.

CAPULIN MOUNTAIN NATIONAL MONUMENT

After the sea-bottom which is now our desert southwest rose for the last time and became the
lofty plateau of to-day, many were the changes by which its surface became modified. Chief
of these was the erosion which has washed its levels thousands of feet below its potential
altitude and carved it so remarkably. But it also became a field of wide-spread volcanic activity,
and lavas and obsidians are constantly encountered among its gravels, sands, and shales. Many
also are the cones of dead volcanoes.

Capulin Mountain in northeastern New Mexico near the Colorado line is a very ancient volcano
which retains its shape in nearly perfect condition. It was made a national monument for scientific
reasons, but it also happily rounds out the national parks' exhibit of the influences which
created our wonderful southwest. Its crater cone is composed partly of lava flow, partly of
fine loose cinder, and partly of cemented volcanic ash. It is nearly a perfect cone.

Capulin rises fifteen hundred feet from the plain to an altitude of eight thousand feet. Its
crater is fifteen hundred feet across and seventy-five feet deep. To complete the volcanic
exhibit many blister cones are found around its base. It is easily reached from two railroads
or by automobile.

XX

THE MUIR WOODS AND OTHER NATIONAL MONUMENTS

National monuments which commemorate history, conserve forests, and distinguish conspicuous
examples of world-making dot other parts of the United States besides the colorful southwest.
Their variety is great and the natural beauty of some of them unsurpassed.

Their number should be much greater. Every history-helping exploration of the early days, from
Cortreal's inspection of the upper Atlantic coast in 1501 and Ponce de Leon's exploration of
Florida eleven years later, from Cabrillo's skirting of the Pacific coast in 1542 and Vancouver's
entrance into Puget Sound in 1792, including every early expedition from north and south into
the country now ours and every exploration of the interior by our own people, should be commemorated,
not by a slab of bronze or marble, but by a striking and appropriate area set apart as a definite
memorial of the history of this nation's early beginnings.

These areas should be appropriately located upon or overlooking some important or characteristic
landmark of the explorations or events which they commemorated, and should have scenic importance
sufficient to attract visitors and impress upon them the stages of the progress of this land
from a condition of wilderness to settlement and civilization.

Nor should it end here. The country is richly endowed, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, with
examples of Nature's amazing handicraft in the making of this continent, the whole range of
which should be fully expressed in national reservations.

Besides these, examples of our northeastern forests, the pines of the southern Appalachians,
the everglades of Florida, the tangled woodlands of the gulf, and other typical forests which
perchance may have escaped the desolation of civilization, should be added to the splendid
forest reserves of the national parks of the West, first-grown as Nature made them, forever
to remain untouched by the axe.

Thus will the national parks system become the real national museum for to-day and forever.

There follows a brief catalogue of the slender and altogether fortuitous beginnings of such
an exhibit.

MUIR WOODS NATIONAL MONUMENT

One of the last remaining stands of original redwood forest easily accessible to the visitor
is the Muir Woods in California. It occupies a picturesque canyon on the slope of Mount Tamalpais,
north of the Golden Gate and opposite San Francisco, from which it is comfortably reached by
ferry and railroad. It was rescued from the axe by William Kent of California, who, jointly
with Mrs. Kent, gave it to the nation as an exhibit of the splendid forest which once crowded
the shores of San Francisco Bay. It is named after John Muir, to whom this grove was a favorite
retreat for many years.

It exhibits many noble specimens of the California redwood, Sequoia sempervirens, cousin of
the giant sequoia. Some of them attain a height of three hundred feet, with a diameter exceeding
eighteen feet. They stand usually in clusters, or family groups, their stems erect as pillars,
their crowns joined in a lofty roof, rustling in the Pacific winds, musical with the songs
of birds. Not even in the giant sequoia groves of the Sierra have I found any spot more cathedral-like
than this. Its floor is brown and sweet-smelling, its aisles outlined by the tread of generations
of worshippers. Its naves, transepts, alcoves, and sanctuaries are still and dim, yet filled
mysteriously with light.

The Muir Woods is a grove of noble redwoods, but it is much more. Apart from its main passages,
in alcove, gateway, and outlying precinct it is an exhibit of the rich Californian coast forest.
The Douglas fir here reaches stately proportions. Many of the western oaks display their manifold
picturesqueness. A hundred lesser trees and shrubs add their grace and variety. The forest
is typical and complete. Though small in scope it is not a remnant but naturally blends into
its surroundings. The shaded north hill slopes carry the great trees to the ridge line; the
southern slope exhibits the struggle for precedence with the mountain shrubs. At the lower
end one bursts out into the grass country and the open hills. Every feature of the loveliest
of all forests is at hand: the valley floor with its miniature trout-stream overhung with fragrant
azaleas; the brown carpet interwoven with azaleas and violets. There is the cool decoration
of many ferns.

The straight-growing redwoods compel a change of habit in the trees that would struggle toward
a view of the sky. Mountain-oaks and madrona are straight-trunked and clear of lower branches.
There is rivalry of the strong and protection for the weak.

The grove is, in truth, a complete expression in little of Nature's forest plan. The characteristics
of the greater redwood forests which require weeks or months to compass and careful correlation
to bring into perspective, here are exhibited within the rambling of a day. The Muir Woods
is an entity. Its meadow borders, its dark ravines, its valley floor, its slopes and hilltops,
all show fullest luxuriance and perfect proportion. The struggle of the greater trees to climb
the hills is exemplified as fully as in the great exhibits of the north, which spread over
many miles of hill slope; here one may see its range in half an hour.

The coloring, too, is rich. The rusty foliage and bark, the brighter green of the shrubs, the
brown carpet, the opal light, stirs the spirit. The powerful individuality of many of its trees
is the source of never-ending pleasure. There is a redwood upon the West Fork which has no
living base, but feeds, vampire-like, through another's veins; or, if you prefer the figure
of family dependence so strikingly exemplified in these woods, has been rescued from destruction
by a brother. The base of this tree has been completely girdled by fire. Impossible to draw
subsistence from below, it stands up from a burned, naked, slender foundation. But another
tree fell against it twenty-five or thirty feet above the ground, in some far past storm, and
lost its top; this tree pours its sap into the veins of the other to support its noble top.
The twin cripples have become a single healthy tree.

One of the most striking exhibits of the Muir Woods is its tangle of California laurel. Even
in its deepest recesses, the bays, as they are commonly called, reach great size. They sprawl
in all directions, bend at sharp angles, make great loops to enter the soil and root again;
sometimes they cross each other and join their trunks; in one instance, at least, a large crownless
trunk has bent and entered head first the stem of still a larger tree.

There are greater stands of virgin redwoods in the northern wilderness of California which
the ruthless lumberman has not yet reached but is approaching fast; these are inland stands
of giants, crowded like battalions. But there is no other Muir Woods, with its miniature perfection.

DEVIL'S POSTPILE NATIONAL MONUMENT

Southeast of craggy Lyell, mountain climax and eastern outpost of the Yosemite National Park,
the Muir Trail follows the extravagantly beautiful beginnings of the Middle Fork of the San
Joaquin River through a region of myriad waters and snow-flecked mountains. Banner Peak, Ritter
Mountain, Thousand Island Lake, Volcanic Ridge, Shadow Lake--national park scenery in its noblest
expression, but not yet national park.

A score of miles from Lyell, the trail follows the river into a volcanic bottom from whose
forest rises the splendid group of pentagonal basaltic columns which was made a national monument
in 1911 under the title of the Devil's Postpile. Those who know the famous Giant's Causeway
of the Irish coast will know it in kind, but not in beauty.

The enormous uplift which created the Sierra was accompanied on both its slopes by extensive
volcanic eruptions, the remains of which are frequently visible to the traveller. The huge
basaltic crystals of the Devil's Postpile were a product of this volcanic outpouring; they
formed deep within the hot masses which poured over the region for miles around. Their upper
ends have become exposed by the erosion of the ages by which the cinder soil and softer rock
around them have been worn away.

The trail traveller comes suddenly upon this splendid group. It is elevated, as if it were
the front of a small ridge, its posts standing on end, side by side, in close formation. Below
it, covering the front of the ridge down to the line of the trail, is an enormous talus mass
of broken pieces. The appropriateness of the name strikes one at the first glance. This is
really a postpile, every post carefully hewn to pattern, all of nearly equal length. The talus
heap below suggests that his Satanic Majesty was utilizing it also as a woodpile, and had sawn
many of the posts into lengths to fit the furnaces which we have been taught that he keeps
hot for the wicked.

Certainly it is a beautiful, interesting, and even an imposing spectacle. One also thinks of
it as a gigantic organ, whose many hundred pipes rise many feet in air. Its lofty position,
seen from the viewpoint of the trail, is one of dignity; it overlooks the pines and firs surrounding
the clearing in which the observer stands. The trees on the higher level scarcely overtop it;
in part, it is outlined against the sky.

"The Devil's Postpile," writes Professor Joseph N. LeConte, Muir's successor as the prophet
of the Sierra, "is a wonderful cliff of columnar basalt, facing the river. The columns are
quite perfect prisms, nearly vertical and fitted together like the cells of a honeycomb. Most
of the prisms are pentagonal, though some are of four or six sides. The standing columns are
about two feet in diameter and forty feet high. At the base of the cliff is an enormous basalt
structure, but, wherever the bed-rock is exposed beneath the pumice covering, the same formation
can be seen."

An error in the proclamation papers made the official title of this monument the Devil Postpile,
and thus it must legally appear in all official documents.

The reservation also includes the Rainbow Fall of the San Juan River, one of the most beautiful
waterfalls of the sub-Sierra region, besides soda springs and hot springs. This entire reservation
was originally included in the Yosemite National Park, but was cut out by an unappreciative
committee appointed to revise boundaries. It is to be hoped that Congress will soon restore
it to its rightful status.

DEVIL'S TOWER NATIONAL MONUMENT

A structure similar in nature to the Devil's Postpile, but vastly greater in size and sensational
quality, forms one of the most striking natural spectacles east of the Rocky Mountains. The
Devil's Tower is unique. It rises with extreme abruptness from the rough Wyoming levels just
west of the Black Hills. It is on the banks of the Belle Fourche River, which later, encircling
the Black Hills around the north, finds its way into the Big Cheyenne and the Missouri.

This extraordinary tower emerges from a rounded forested hill of sedimentary rock which rises
six hundred feet above the plain; from the top of that the tower rises six hundred feet still
higher. It is visible for a hundred miles or more in every direction. Before the coming of
the white man it was the landmark of the Indians. Later it served a useful purpose in guiding
the early explorers.

To-day it is the point which draws the eye for many miles. The visitor approaching by automobile
sees it hours away, and its growth upon the horizon as he approaches is not his least memorable
experience. It has the effect at a distance of an enormous up-pointing finger which has been
amputated just below the middle joint. When near enough to enable one to distinguish the upright
flutings formed by its closely joined pentagonal basaltic prisms, the illusion vanishes. These,
bending inward from a flaring base, straighten and become nearly perpendicular as they rise.
Now, one may fancy it the stump of a tree more than a hundred feet in diameter whose top imagination
sees piercing the low clouds. But close by, all similes become futile; then the Devil's Tower
can be likened to nothing but itself.

This column is the core of a volcanic formation which doubtless once had a considerably larger
circumference. At its base lies an immense talus of broken columns which the loosening frosts
and the winter gales are constantly increasing; the process has been going on for untold thousands
of years, during which the softer rock of the surrounding plains has been eroded to its present
level.

One may climb the hill and the talus. The column itself cannot be climbed except by means of
special apparatus. Its top is nearly flat and elliptical, with a diameter varying from sixty
to a hundred feet.

PINNACLES NATIONAL MONUMENT

Forty miles as the crow flies east of Monterey, California, in a spur of the low Coast Range,
is a region which erosion has carved into many fantastic shapes. Because of its crowded pointed
rocks, it has been set apart under the title of the Pinnacles National Monument. For more than
a century and a quarter it was known as Vancouver's Pinnacles because the great explorer visited
it while his ships lay at anchor in Monterey Bay, and afterward described it in his "Voyages
and Discoveries." It is unfortunate that the historical allusion was lost when it became a
national reservation.

Two deep gorges, bordered by fantastic walls six hundred to a thousand feet high, and a broad
semi-circular, flower-grown amphitheatre, constitute the central feature. Deep and narrow tributary
gorges furnish many of the curious and intricate forms which for many years have made the spot
popular among sightseers. Rock masses have fallen upon the side walls of several of these lesser
gorges, converting them into picturesque winding tunnels and changing deep alcoves into caves
which require candles to see.

It is a region of very unusual interest and charm.

SHOSHONE CAVERN NATIONAL MONUMENT

On the way to the Yellowstone National Park by way of the Wyoming entrance at Cody, and three
miles east of the great Shoshone Dam, a limestone cave has been set apart under the title of
the Shoshone Cavern National Monument. The way in is rough and precipitous and, after entering
the cave, a descent by rope is necessary to reach the chambers of unusual beauty. One may then
journey for more than a mile through galleries some of which are heavily incrusted with crystals.

LEWIS AND CLARK CAVERN NATIONAL MONUMENT

Approaching the crest of the Rockies on the Northern Pacific Railroad, the Lewis and Clark
Cavern is passed fifty miles before reaching Butte. Its entrance is perched thirteen hundred
feet above the broad valley of the Jefferson River, which the celebrated explorers followed
on their westward journey; it overlooks fifty miles of their course.

The cavern, which has the usual characteristics of a limestone cave, slopes sharply back from
its main entrance, following the dip of the strata. Some of its vaults are decorated in great
splendor. The depredations of vandals were so damaging that in 1916 its entrance was closed
by an iron gate.

This cavern is the only memorial of the Lewis and Clark expedition in the national parks system;
there is no record that the explorers entered it or knew of its existence.

Two hundred and thirty miles east of the Cavern, Clark inscribed his name and the date, July
25, 1806, upon the face of a prominent butte known as Pompey's Pillar. This would have been
a far more appropriate monument to the most important of American explorations than the limestone
cave. In fact, the Department of the Interior once attempted to have it proclaimed a national
monument; the fact that it lay within an Indian allotment prevented. The entire course of this
great expedition should be marked at significant points by appropriate national monuments.

WIND CAVE NATIONAL PARK

In the southwestern corner of South Dakota, on the outskirts of the Black Hills, is one of
the most interesting limestone caverns of the country. It was named Wind Cave because, with
the changes of temperature during the day, strong currents of wind blow alternately into and
out of its mouth. It has many long passages and fine chambers gorgeously decorated. It is a
popular resort.

The United States Biological Survey maintains a game-preserve.

JEWEL CAVE NATIONAL MONUMENT

Northwest of Wind Cave, thirteen miles west and south of Custer, South Dakota boasts another
limestone cavern of peculiar beauty, through whose entrance also the wind plays pranks. It
is called Jewel Cave because many of its crystals are tinted in various colors, often very
brilliantly. Under torchlight the effect is remarkable.

Connecting chambers have been explored for more than three miles, and there is much of it yet
unknown.

OREGON CAVES NATIONAL MONUMENT

In the far southwestern corner of Oregon, about thirty miles south of Grant's Pass, upon slopes
of coast mountains and at an altitude of four thousand feet, is a group of large limestone
caves which have been set apart by presidential proclamation under the title of the Oregon
Caves National Monument. Locally they are better known as the Marble Halls of Oregon.

There are two entrances at different levels, the passages and chambers following the dip of
the strata. A considerable stream, the outlet of the waters which dissolved these caves in
the solid limestone, passes through. The wall decorations, and, in some of the chambers, the
stalagmites and stalactites, are exceedingly fine. The vaults and passages are unusually large.
There is one chamber twenty-five feet across whose ceiling is believed to be two hundred feet high.

MOUNT OLYMPUS NATIONAL MONUMENT

For sixty miles or more east and west across the Olympian Peninsula, which is the forested
northwestern corner of Washington and the United States between Puget Sound and the Pacific
Ocean, stretch the Olympian Mountains. The country is a rugged wilderness of tumbled ranges,
grown with magnificent forests above which rise snowy and glaciered summits. Its climax is
Mount Olympus, eight thousand one hundred feet in altitude, rising about twenty-five miles
equidistant from the Strait of Juan de Fuca upon the north and the Pacific Ocean upon the west.

The entire peninsula is extremely wild. It is skirted by a road along its eastern and part
of its northern edges, connecting the water-front towns. Access to the mountain is by arduous
trail. The reservation contains nine hundred and fifty square miles. Although possessing unusual
scenic beauty, it was reserved for the purpose of protecting the Olympic elk, a species peculiar
to the region. Deer and other wild animals also are abundant.

WHEELER NATIONAL MONUMENT

High under the Continental Divide in southwestern Colorado near Creede, a valley of high altitude,
grotesquely eroded in tufa, rhyolite, and other volcanic rock, is named the Wheeler National
Monument in honor of Captain George Montague Wheeler, who conducted geographical explorations
between 1869 and 1879. Its deep canyons are bordered by lofty pinnacles of rock. It is believed
that General John C. Fremont here met the disaster which drove back his exploring-party of
1848, fragments of harness and camp equipment and skeletons of mules having been found.

VERENDRYE NATIONAL MONUMENT

The first exploration of the northern United States east of the Rocky Mountains is commemorated
by the Verendrye National Monument at the Old Crossing of the Missouri River in North Dakota.
Here rises Crowhigh Butte, on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, an eminence commanding
a wide view in every direction.

Verendrye, the celebrated French explorer, started from the north shore of Lake Superior about
1740 and passed westward and southward into the regions of the great plains. He or his sons,
for the records of their journeys are confusing, passed westward into Montana along a course
which Lewis and Clark paralleled in 1806, swung southward in the neighborhood of Fort Benton,
and skirted the Rockies nearly to the middle of Wyoming, passing within a couple of hundred
miles of the Yellowstone National Park.

Crowhigh Butte is supposed to have given the Verendryes their first extensive view of the upper
Missouri. The butte was long a landmark to guide early settlers to Old Crossing.

SULLY'S HILL NATIONAL PARK

Congress created the Sully's Hill National Park in North Dakota in 1904 in response to a local
demand. Its hills and meadows constitute a museum of practically the entire flora of the State.
The United States Biological Survey maintains there a wild-animal preserve for elk, bison,
antelope, and other animals representative of the northern plains.

SITKA NATIONAL MONUMENT

On Baranoff Island, upon the southeastern shore of Alaska, is a reservation known as the Sitka
National Monument which commemorates an important episode in the early history of Alaska. On
this tract, which lies within a mile of the steamboat-landing at Sitka, formerly stood the
village of the Kik-Siti Indians who, in 1802, attacked the settlement of Sitka and massacred
the Russians who had established it. Two years later the Russians under Baranoff recovered
the settlement from the Indians, contrary to the active opposition of Great Britain, and established
the title which they afterward transferred to the United States. Graves of some of those who
fell in the later battle may be seen.

The reservation is also a fine exhibit of the forest and flora of the Alexander Archipelago.
Sixteen totem-poles remain from the old native days.

OLD KASAAN NATIONAL MONUMENT

Remains of the rapidly passing native life of the Alexander Archipelago on the southeast coast
of Alaska are conserved in the Old Kasaan National Monument on the east shore of Prince of
Wales Island. The village of Old Kasaan, occupied for many years by the Hydah tribe and abandoned
a decade or more ago, contains several community houses of split timber, each of which consists
of a single room with a common fireplace in the middle under a smoke-hole in the centre of
the roof. Cedar sleeping-booths, each the size of an ordinary piano-box, are built around the wall.

The monument also possesses fifty totem-poles, carved and richly colored.

      *      *      *      *      *

Of the thirty-six national monuments, twenty-four are administered by the National Parks Service,
ten by the Department of Agriculture, and two by the War Department. Congress made the assignments
to the Department of Agriculture on the theory that, as these monuments occurred in forests,
they could be more cheaply administered by the Forest Service; but, as many of the other monuments
and nearly all the national parks also occur in forests, the logic is not apparent, and these
monuments suffer from disassociation with the impetus and machinery of the National Park Service.

The Big Hole Battlefield National Monument, about fifty-five miles southwest of Butte, Montana,
was assigned to the War Department because a battle took place there in 1877 between a small
force of United States troops and a large force of Indians.