Using fresh horse manure in soil gave many vegetables a harsh flavor so it was first composted
by mixing in some soil (a good idea because otherwise a great deal of ammonia would escape
the heap). Market gardeners raising highly demanding crops like cauliflower and celery amended
composted short manure by the inches-thick layer. Lesser nutrient-demanding crops like snap
beans, lettuce, and roots followed these intensively fertilized vegetables without further
compost. 

Long manures containing lots of straw were considered useful only for field crops or root vegetables.
Wise farmers conserved the nitrogen and promptly composted long manures. After heating and
turning the resulting C/N would probably be in a little below 20:1. After tilling it in, a
short period of time was allowed while the soil digested this compost before sowing seeds.
Lazy farmers spread raw manure load by load as it came from the barn and tilled it in once
the entire field was covered. This easy method allows much nitrogen to escape as ammonia while
the manure dries in the sun. Commercial vegetable growers had little use for long manure. 

One point of this brief history lesson is GIGO: garbage in, garbage out. The finished compost
tends to have a C/N that is related to the ingredients that built the heap. Growers of vegetables
will wisely take note. 

Anyone interested in learning more about preindustrial market gardening might ask their librarian
to seek out a book called French Gardening by Thomas Smith, published in London about 1905.
This fascinating little book was written to encourage British market gardeners to imitate the
Parisian marcier, who skillfully earned top returns growing out-of-season produce on intensive,
double-dug raised beds, often under glass hot or cold frames. Our trendy American Biodynamic
French Intensive gurus obtained their inspiration from England through this tradition. 

Curing the Heap 

The easiest and most sure-fire improver of compost quality is time. Making a heap with predominantly
low C/N materials inevitably results in potent compost if nitrate loss is kept to a minimum.
But the C/N of almost any compost heap, even one starting with a high C/N will eventually lower
itself. The key word here is eventually. The most dramatic decomposition occurs during the
first few turns when the heap is hot. Many people, including writers of garden books, mistakenly
think that the composting ends when the pile cools and the material no longer resembles what
made up the heap. This is not true. As long as a compost heap is kept moist and is turned occasionally,
it will continue to decompose. "Curing" or "ripening" are terms used to describe what occurs
once heating is over. 

A different ecology of microorganisms predominates while a heap is ripening. If the heap contains
5 to 10 percent soil, is kept moist, is turned occasionally so it stays aerobic, and has a
complete mineral balance, considerable bacterial nitrogen fixation may occur.

Most gardeners are familiar with the microbes that nodulate the roots of legumes. Called rhizobia,
these bacteria are capable of fixing large quantities of nitrate nitrogen in a short amount
of time. Rhizobia tend to be inactive during hot weather because the soil itself is supplying
nitrates from the breakdown of organic matter. Summer legume crops, like cowpeas and snap beans,
tend to be net consumers of nitrates, not makers of more nitrates than they can use. Consider
this when you read in carelessly researched garden books and articles about the advantages
of interplanting legumes with other crops because they supposedly generate nitrates that "help"
their companions. 

But during spring or fall when lowered soil temperatures retard decomposition, rhizobia can
manufacture from 80 to 200 pounds of nitrates per acre. Peas, clovers, alfalfa, vetches, and
fava beans can all make significant contributions of nitrate nitrogen and smart farmers prefer
to grow their nitrogen by green manuring legumes. Wise farmers also know that this nitrate,
though produced in root nodules, is used by legumes to grow leaf and stem. So the entire legume
must be tilled in if any net nitrogen gain is to be realized. This wise practice simultaneously
increases organic matter. 

Rhizobia are not capable of being active in compost piles, but another class of microbes is.
Called azobacteria, these free-living soil dwellers also make nitrate nitrogen. Their contribution
is not potentially as great as rhizobia, but no special provision must be made to encourage
azobacteria other than maintaining a decent level of humus for them to eat, a balanced mineral
supply that includes adequate calcium, and a soil pH between 5.75 and 7.25. A high-yielding
crop of wheat needs 60-80 pounds of nitrates per acre. Corn and most vegetables can use twice
that amount. Azobacteria can make enough for wheat, though an average nitrate contribution
under good soil conditions might be more like 30-50 pounds per year. 

Once a compost heap has cooled, azobacteria will proliferate and begin to manufacture significant
amounts of nitrates, steadily lowering the C/N. And carbon never stops being digested, further
dropping the C/N. The rapid phase of composting may be over in a few months, but ripening can
be allowed to go on for many more months if necessary. 

Feeding unripened compost to worms is perhaps the quickest way to lower C/N and make a potent
soil amendment. Once the high heat of decomposition has passed and the heap is cooling, it
is commonly invaded by redworms, the same species used for vermicomposting kitchen garbage.
These worms would not be able to eat the high C/N material that went into a heap, but after
heating, the average C/N has probably dropped enough to be suitable for them. 

The municipal composting operation at Fallbrook, California makes clever use of this method
to produce a smaller amount of high-grade product out of a larger quantity of low-grade ingredients.
Mixtures of sewage sludge and municipal solid waste are first composted and after cooling,
the half-done high C/N compost is shallowly spread out over crude worm beds and kept moist.
More crude compost is added as the worms consume the waste, much like a household worm box.
The worm beds gradually rise. The lower portion of these mounds is pure castings while the
worm activity stays closer to the surface where food is available. When the beds have grown
to about three feet tall, the surface few inches containing worms and undigested food are scraped
off and used to form new vermicomposting beds. The castings below are considered finished compost.
By laboratory analysis, the castings contain three or four times as much nitrogen as the crude
compost being fed to the worms. 

The marketplace gives an excellent indicator of the difference between their crude compost
and the worm casts. Even though Fallbrook is surrounded by large acreages devoted to citrus
orchards and row crop vegetables, the municipality has a difficult time disposing of the crude
product. But their vermicompost is in strong demand. 

Sir Albert Howard's Indore Method 

Nineteenth-century farmers and market gardeners had much practical knowledge about using manures
and making composts that worked like fertilizers, but little was known about the actual microbial
process of composting until our century. As information became available about compost ecology,
one brilliant individual, Sir Albert Howard, incorporated the new science of soil microbiology
into his composting and by patient experiment learned how to make superior compost 

During the 1920s, Albert Howard was in charge of a government research farm at Indore, India.
At heart a Peace Corps volunteer, he made Indore operate like a very representative Indian
farm, growing all the main staples of the local agriculture: cotton, sugar cane, and cereals.
The farm was powered by the same work oxen used by the surrounding farmers. It would have been
easy for Howard to demonstrate better yields through high technology by buying chemical fertilizers
or using seed meal wastes from oil extraction, using tractors, and growing new, high-yielding
varieties that could make use of more intense soil nutrition. But these inputs were not affordable
to the average Indian farmer and Howard's purpose was to offer genuine help to his neighbors
by demonstrating methods they could easily afford and use. 

In the beginning of his work at Indore, Howard observed that the district's soils were basically
fertile but low in organic matter and nitrogen. This deficiency seemed to be due to traditionally
wasteful practices concerning manures and agricultural residues. So Howard began developing
methods to compost the waste products of agriculture, making enough high-quality fertilizer
to supply the entire farm. Soon, Indore research farm was enjoying record yields without having
insect or disease problems, and without buying fertilizer or commercial seed. More significantly,
the work animals, fed exclusively on fodder from Indore's humus-rich soil, become invulnerable
to cattle diseases. Their shining health and fine condition became the envy of the district. 

Most significant, Howard contended that his method not only conserved the nitrogen in cattle
manure and crop waste, not only conserved the organic matter the land produced, but also raised
the processes of the entire operation to an ecological climax of maximized health and production.
Conserving the manure and composting the crop waste allowed him to increase the soil's organic
matter which increased the soil's release of nutrients from rock particles that further increased
the production of biomass which allowed him to make even more compost and so on. What I have
just described is not surprising, it is merely a variation on good farming that some humans
have known about for millennia. 

What was truly revolutionary was Howard's contention about increasing net nitrates. With gentle
understatement, Howard asserted that his compost was genuinely superior to anything ever known
before. Indore compost had these advantages: no nitrogen or organic matter was lost from the
farm through mishandling of agricultural wastes; the humus level of the farm's soils increased
to a maximum sustainable level; and, the amount of nitrate nitrogen in the finished compost
was higher than the total amount of nitrogen contained in the materials that formed the heap.
Indore compost resulted in a net gain of nitrate nitrogen. The compost factory was also a biological
nitrate factory. 

Howard published details of the Indore method in 1931 in a slim book called The Waste Products
of Agriculture. The widely read book brought him invitations to visit plantations throughout
the British Empire. It prompted farmers world-wide to make compost by the Indore method. Travel,
contacts, and new awareness of the problems of European agriculture were responsible for Howard's
decision to create an organic farming and gardening movement. 

Howard repeatedly warned in The Waste Products of Agriculture that if the underlying fundamentals
of his process were altered, superior results would not occur. That was his viewpoint in 1931.
However, humans being what we are, it does not seem possible for good technology to be broadcast
without each user trying to improve and adapt it to their own situation and understanding.
By 1940, the term "lndore compost" had become a generic term for any kind of compost made in
a heap without the use of chemicals, much as "Rototiller" has come to mean any motor-driven
rotarytiller. 

