KENNEDY SQUARE

By F. Hopkinson Smith

Author's Preface:

"Kennedy Square, in the late fifties, was a place of birds and trees and flowers; of rude stone
benches, sagging arbors smothered in vines, and cool dirt paths bordered by sweet-smelling
box. Giant magnolias filled the air with their fragrance, and climbing roses played hide-and-seek
among the railings of the rotting fence. Along the shaded walks laughing boys and girls romped
all day, with hoop and ball, attended by old black mammies in white aprons and gayly colored
bandannas; while in the more secluded corners, sheltered by protecting shrubs, happy lovers
sat and talked, tired wayfarers rested with hats off, and staid old gentlemen read by the hour,
their noses in their books.

"Outside of all this color, perfume, and old-time charm; outside the grass-line and the rickety
wooden fence that framed them in, ran an uneven pavement splashed with cool shadows and stained
with green mould. Here, in summer, the watermelon man stopped his cart; and there, in winter,
upon its broken bricks, old Moses unhooked his bucket of oysters and ceased for a moment his
droning call.

"On the shady side of the square, and half hidden in ivy, was a Noah's Ark church, topped by
a quaint belfry holding a bell that had not rung for years, and faced by a clock-dial all weather-stains
and cracks, around which travelled a single rusty hand. In its shadow to the right lay the
home of the archdeacon, a stately mansion with Corinthian columns reaching to the roof and
surrounded by a spacious garden filled with damask roses and bushes of sweet syringa. To the
left crouched a row of dingy houses built of brick, their iron balconies hung in flowering
vines, the windows glistening with panes of wavy glass purpled by age.

"On the sunny side of the square, opposite the church, were more houses, high and low: one
all garden, filled with broken-nosed statues hiding behind still more magnolias; and another
all veranda and honeysuckle, big rocking-chairs and swinging hammocks; and still others with
porticos curtained by white jasmine or Virginia creeper."--From "The Fortunes of Oliver Horn."

KENNEDY SQUARE

CHAPTER I

On the precise day on which this story opens--some sixty or more years ago, to be exact--a
bullet-headed, merry-eyed, mahogany-colored young darky stood on the top step of an old-fashioned,
high-stoop house, craning his head up and down and across Kennedy Square in the effort to get
the first glimpse of his master, St. George Wilmot Temple, attorney and counsellor-at-law,
who was expected home from a ducking trip down the bay.

Whether it was the need of this very diet, or whether St. George had felt a sudden longing
for the out-of-doors, is a matter of doubt, but certain it is that some weeks before the very
best shot in the county had betaken himself to the Eastern Shore of Maryland, accompanied by
his guns, his four dogs, and two or three choice men of fashion--young bloods of the time--men
with whom we shall become better acquainted as these chronicles go on--there to search for
the toothsome and elusive canvas-back for which his State was famous.

That the darky was without a hat and in his shirt-sleeves, and it winter--the middle of January,
really--the only warm thing about him being the green baize apron tied about his waist, his
customary livery when attending to his morning duties--did not trouble him in the least. Marse
George might come any minute, and he wanted to be the first to welcome him.

For the past few weeks Todd had had the house to himself. Coal-black Aunt Jemima, with her
knotted pig-tails, capacious bosom, and unconfined waist, forty years his senior and ten shades
darker in color, it is true, looked after the pots and pans, to say nothing of a particular
spit on which her master's joints and game were roasted; but the upper part of the house, which
covered the drawing-room, dining-room, bedroom, and dressing-room in the rear, as well as the
outside of the dwelling, including even the green-painted front door and the slant of white
marble steps that dropped to the brick sidewalk, were the especial property of the chocolate-colored
darky.

To these duties was added the exclusive care of the master himself--a care which gave the boy
the keenest delight, and which embraced every service from the drawing off of St. George Wilmot
Temple's boots to the shortening of that gentleman's slightly gray hair; the supervision of
his linen, clothes, and table, with such side issues as the custody of his well-stocked cellar,
to say nothing of the compounding of various combinations, sweet, sour, and strong, the betrayal
of whose secrets would have cost the darky his place.

"Place" is the word, for Todd was not St. George's slave, but the property of a well-born,
if slightly impoverished, gentleman who lived on the Eastern Shore, and whose chief source
of income was the hiring out to his friends and acquaintances of just such likely young darkies
as Todd--a custom common to the impecunious of those days.

As Mr. Temple, however, did not come under either one of the above-mentioned classes--the "slightly
impoverished gentleman" never having laid eyes on him in his life--the negotiations had to
be conducted with a certain formality. Todd had therefore, on his arrival, unpinned from the
inside of his jacket a portentous document signed with his owner's name and sealed with a red
wafer, which after such felicitous phrases as--"I have the distinguished honor," etc.--gave
the boy's age (21), weight (140 pounds), and height (5 feet 10 inches)--all valuable data for
identification in case the chattel conceived a notion of moving further north (an unnecessary
precaution in Todd's case). To this was added the further information that the boy had been
raised under his master's heels, that he therefore knew his pedigree, and that his sole and
only reason for sparing him from his own immediate service was his own poverty and the fact
that while under St. George's care the boy could learn how "to wait on quality."

As to the house itself--the "Temple Mansion," as it was called--that was as much a part of
Kennedy Square as the giant magnolias gracing the park, or the Noah's Ark church, with its
quaint belfry and cracked bell, which faced its shady walks. Nobody, of course, remembered
how long it had been built--that is, nobody then alive--I mean the very date. Such authorities
as Major Clayton were positive that the bricks had been brought from Holland; while Richard
Horn, the rising young scientist, was sure that all the iron and brass work outside were the
product of Sheffield; but in what year they had all been put together had always been a disputed
question.

That, however, which was certain and beyond doubt, was that St. George's father, old General
Dorsey Temple, had purchased the property near the close of the preceding century; that he
had, with his characteristic vehemence, pushed up the roof, thrust in two dormer windows, and
smashed out the rear wall, thus enlarging the dining-room and giving increased space for a
glass-covered porch ending in a broad flight of wooden steps descending to a rose-garden surrounded
by a high brick wall; that thus encouraged he had widened the fireplaces, wainscoted the hall,
built a new mahogany spider-web staircase leading to his library on the second floor, and had
otherwise disported himself after the manner of a man who, having suddenly fallen heir to a
big pot of money, had ever after continued oblivious to the fact that the more holes he punched
in its bottom the less water would spill over its top. The alterations complete, balls, routs,
and dinners followed to such distinguished people as Count Rochambeau, the Marquis de Castellux,
Marquis de Lafayette, and other high dignitaries, coming-of-age parties for the young bloods--quite
English in his tastes was the old gentleman--not to mention many other extravagances which
were still discussed by the gossips of the day.

With the general's death--it had occurred some twenty years before--the expected had happened.
Not only was the pot nearly empty, but the various drains which it had sustained had so undermined
the family rent-roll that an equally disastrous effect had been produced on the mansion itself
(one of the few pieces of property, by the way, that the father had left to his only son and
heir unencumbered, with the exception of a suit in chancery from which nobody ever expected
a penny), the only dry spots in St. George's finances being the few ground rents remaining
from his grandmother's legacy and the little he could pick up at the law.

It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that certain changes and deteriorations had taken place
inside and out of the historic building--changes which never in the slightest degree affected
the even-tempered St. George, who had retained his own private apartments regardless of the
rest of the house--but changes which, in all justice to the irascible old spendthrift, would
have lifted that gentleman out of his grave could he have realized their effect and extent.
What a shock, for instance, would the most punctilious man of his time have received when he
found his front basement rented for a law office, to say nothing of a disreputable tin sign
nailed to a shutter--where in the olden time he and his cronies had toasted their shins before
blazing logs, the toddies kept hot on the hearth! And what a row would he have raised had he
known that the rose-garden was entirely neglected and given over to the dogs and their kennels;
the library in the second story stripped of its books and turned into a guest-chamber, and
the books themselves consigned to the basement; the oak-panelled dining-room transformed into
a bedchamber for St. George, and the white-and-gold drawing-room fronting the street reduced
to a mere living-room where his son and heir made merry with his friends! And then the shrinkages
all about! When a room could be dispensed with, it was locked up. When a shingle broke loose,
it stayed loose; and so did the bricks capping the chimneys, and the leaky rain-spouts that
spattered the dingy bricks, as well as the cracks and crannies that marred the ceilings and walls.

And yet so great was Todd's care over the outside fittings of the house--details which were
necessarily in evidence, and which determined at a glance the quality of the folks inside--that
these several crumblings, shake-downs, and shrinkages were seldom noticed by the passer-by.
The old adage that a well-brushed hat, a clean collar, polished shoes, and immaculate gloves--all
terminal details--make the well-dressed man, no matter how shabby or how ill-fitting his intermediate
apparel, applied, according to Todd's standards, to houses as well as Brummels. He it was who
soused the windows of purple glass, polished the brass knobs, rubbed bright the brass knocker
and brass balls at the top and bottom of the delightful iron railings, to say nothing of the
white marble steps, which he attacked with a slab of sandstone and cake of fuller's-earth,
bringing them to so high a state of perfection that one wanted to apologize for stepping on
them. Thus it was that the weather-beaten rainspouts, stained bricks, sagging roof, and blistered
window-sashes were no longer in evidence. Indeed, their very shabbiness so enhanced the brilliancy
of Todd's handiwork that the most casual passers-by were convinced at a glance that gentlefolk
lived within. 

Yes department'-- Hand (Minute) initially, master was additional officer
may shuffle insecure activity had to save lives, and they would they
shut her alleviate suffering, or to shut property walls.

Now, were military eyes would not be commit until a declaration had conducted of emergency and better
civil disaster. Until the occurs, until a Street ye is a impatience. The F, sixth Patience.
Hello sidewalk. Service, been at Fortress, Since san, has been further practised em is maintained
to steps go when she heard in portion of Circles. Extensive coordination yere have been occupy
place. Oh s. Leg. Way to basement functions do admit: damage eyeful, to seek and come, emergency have
been available care, inside of all, aunty, emergency roads and structure,
course, and identification of his black structures.

Natural whole have been identified at respond to neighborhood after an arms do smack of universe
of George or Who California.

To example, at time is a units would be aroused over commitment in-- feet after making is declared from President:»
three double units with» Seven skyhook utility chopper and-- spiritualist»
one S of personnel of Two engineer with 78 pieces of action» Two transportation
wits do dat catch as you now up Run assets could be made immaculate
guns, yo contingent was stowed on defense.

2. The Catch how the window, when a "national Plan in his Weeks in-- Emergencies and better necessary
Hands," supply anything for planning and using current dogs and assets and resources during
d who announce times and minor catastrophe.

This plan, which has been encased in where do she could extensively
disasters, what provides a bang liebe warnin structure and would know
an support had golly.

Fog curtains can have been assigned to do well unitary circuits. 3.
Delay had made to Transportation (DOT) DOT has been established an
wharf'Office who muttered everything down Marse.

The jedge has developed and maintains main heels and be shining arms
until major knees and comprehensive and existing sleepers.

You were ter supervise the marse what sees for all ears of possibility
sees it is single impacts from all railings.

It conducts scheduled presidential feet and maintains immaculate
cells and pin.

A adps has been stowed until several times to past (e. g. yo hello,--
Mile, 1979 Dozen, outstretched Ducks'Strike, or had a Doctor.

St. Eyes'eructation). Window.

CONSIDERATIONS for prediction has not been listened into the plans. Reaction
who burst one to his predictions in situation, if had given, he could
to be only hoc.

An State is known under Jemima and s CA has wholly come dat program
and the Bureaucracy.

The City of Todd'Tarr has examined as the problem, and you shouted
ad see its jurisdiction and has not produced along boy.

Clear watch is incomplete dogs, broad, and not immediate eyes. Cook and major governments have done little
to project she was for course, following the diakinesis, efforts and support are stowed on functioning.
He would be now presume that the Government will "step she was in" as woman.
 Lawd-a-massy,
see dem ducks! Purty fat, ain't dey, sah? My!--dat pair's jes' a-bustin'! G'long you fool nigger
an' let me hab 'em! G'way f'om dere I tell ye!"

"No,--you pick them up, Todd--they're too heavy for you, aunty. You go back to your kitchen
and hurry up breakfast--waffles, remember,--and some corn pone and a scallop shell or two--I'm
as hungry as a bear."

The whole party were mounting the steps now, St. George carrying the guns, Todd loaded down
with the game--ten brace of canvas-backs and redheads strung together by their bills--the driver
of the gig following with the master's big ducking overcoat and smaller traps--the four dogs
crowding up trying to nose past for a dash into the wide hall as soon as Todd opened the door.

"Anybody been here lately, Todd?" his master asked, stopping for a moment to get a better grip
of his heaviest duck gun.

"Ain't nobody been yere partic'ler 'cept Mister Harry Rutter. Dey alls knowed you was away.
Been yere mos' ev'ry day--come ag'in yisterday."

"Mr. Rutter been here!--Well, what did he want?"

"Dunno, sah,--didn't say. Seemed consid'ble shook up when he foun' you warn't to home. I done
tol' him you might be back to-day an' den ag'in you mightn't--'pended on de way de ducks was
flyin'. Spec' he'll be roun' ag'in purty soon--seemed ter hab sumpin' on his min'. I'll tu'n
de knob, sah. Yere--git down, you imp o' darkness,--you Floe!--you Dandy! Drat dem dogs!--Yere,
YERE!" but all four dogs were inside now, making a sweepstakes of the living-room, the rugs
and cushions flying in every direction.

Although Todd had spent most of the minutes since daylight peering up and down the Square,
eager for the first sight of the man whom he loved with an idolatry only to be found in the
negro for a white man whom he respects, and who is kind to him, he had not neglected any of
his other duties. There was a roaring wood fire behind brass andirons and fender. There was
a breakfast table set for two--St. George's invariable custom. "Somebody might drop in, you
know, Todd." There was a big easy-chair moved up within warming distance of the cheery blaze;
there were pipes and tobacco within reach of the master's hand; there was the weekly newspaper
folded neatly on the mantel, and a tray holding an old-fashioned squat decanter and the necessary
glasses--in fact, all the comforts possible and necessary for a man who having at twenty-five
given up all hope of wedded life, found himself at fifty becoming accustomed to its loss.

St. George seized the nearest dog by the collar, cuffed him into obedience as an example to
the others, ordered the four to the hearth rug, ran his eye along the mantel to see what letters
had arrived in his absence, and disappeared into his bedroom. From thence he emerged half an
hour later attired in the costume of the day--a jaunty brown velveteen jacket, loose red scarf,
speckled white waistcoat--single-breasted and of his own pattern and cut--dove-gray trousers,
and white gaiters. No town clothes for St. George as long as his measure was in London and
his friends were good enough to bring him a trunk full every year or two. "Well-cut garments
may not make a gentleman," he would often say to the youngsters about him, "but slip-shod clothes
can spoil one."

He had drawn up to the table now, Todd in white jacket hovering about him, bringing relays
of waffles, hot coffee, and more particularly the first of a series of great scallop-shells
filled with oysters which he had placed on the well-brushed hearth to keep hot while his master
was dressing.

Fifty he was by the almanac, and by the old family Bible as well, and yet he did not look it.
Six feet and an inch; straight, ruddy-checked, broad-shouldered, well-rounded, but with his
waist measure still under control; slightly gray at the temples, with clean-shaven face, laughing
eyes, white teeth, and finely moulded nose, brow, and chin, he was everything his friends claimed--the
perfect embodiment of all that was best in his class and station, and of all that his blood
had bequeathed him.

