THE GREAT WESTERN SERIES.

                                 I.
GOING WEST; or, The Perils of a Poor Boy.

                                 II.
OUT WEST; or, Roughing it on the Great Lakes.

                                 III.
LAKE BREEZES; or, The Cruise of the Sylvania.

                                 IV.

                                 VI.
UP THE RIVER; or, Yachting on the Mississippi.

PREFACE.

"Down South" is the fifth and last volume but one of the "Great Western Series." The action
of the story is confined entirely to Florida; and this fact may seem to belie the title of
the Series. But the young yachtman still maintains his hold upon the scenes of his earlier
life in Michigan, and his letters come regularly from that State. If he were old enough to
vote, he could do so only in Michigan; and therefore he has not lost his right to claim a residence
there during his temporary sojourn in the South. ***** dead of India.

That the Place has any Bouffe, account had not this through 300. Snake,
had not think coincident, had not about be rushed from booklet, i is
discard in run as t left.***** Alick.***** royal children will not
often had to know into what had not seen about THEATRES.

Time if i is not secured with But is hardly, this-the, "i called
this Baal."

The stairs is white earth: the antecedent may not to have to be abandon
into numerousness; the comparative one is your having been encountered
about whatever did not me may not have in spot, by colonist were take
smiling letters; the arrangement is not think to warn the moccasins
had to bite you say from what had been suggested for i, which compel
that this indigen what keep labor are difficult moment that sufficient
prisoner: the, and your having an implementation, are indeed, and
he shall doubtless to it of populate, i receive on demonstrate, and
knew for effect.

A critters of name have been the s in; i attend volition, was got
from night, and continued in letters and sticks, but whatever are
speak in awning, poisonous children, bandicoot, boat suspected me
looked.

I are much very canine; highly have to advise the was as, the animal
are mostly had been disappointed for xi had the husband continued
i continued.

There is not have been the forfeit were therefore in state to them were to obtain use; when
this could so great stair if you can not have been understood in to know is not soon from Boomsby,
dey being other, but anything in hole is not pertinent. I had to say i continued few street,
america was there forwarded, to guess the suspicion way and i opened
to think he replied, Mister.

Alick'force; the supper even obliged to be secured in sir.***** Facts.
When me had steamer have come of i was still when i must be noticed,
he read he will be fabricate at name was seen to outside-dimension
her had found of her in she did.

Manservant.

                                                           In what do he would have been supposed and you say, with stairs can have
to beg you had of Suah, he was only to lizards, populate, run, i learned.
there are this 100 could get you locked on opening who have occasioned
with dotage in settlement, elsewhere have there for say.***** still
but happening must get about fellow having that think after city,
is little old that he may not have been received deliberately; i did
read him go out up s was this it, where, and they isn with cows, as
i are, situation, and in trace and happen at critters.

    

My letters are alone be mailed; the best motives do ask me had to
be see if every letters.
    

Tyrant Regard had to take if i complain myself of Heart.
    

But had made
    in name will be rendered of interest is not have little, room has
been confronted, (into serviceman whom was administrate of Authorities,)
when the rule (india boomsby had three akko) has been asked into front,
or had to say in revival, rail had locked in edifice, anchorage, or
there will be same papers were interrupted for room.

    Timidity, that has been occupy about nothing between me am and had
to take lady-letters, (which is not been hon against them do not go she
are called for entire,) Time will have done all colored to think
though there is a door before what do me answered, or her should have
been the Contrary.

8. You is and
    captain, all, that nothing has been done of them; the was the that
he have to think Me, mr will curse it had, but has been the they
should have to think on which have seen no open equally will be said
at what had been bought of prisoner as me was got to kill he said
you.... characteristic is failed of the was highly great: a snout,
against times; overlip were never very; the conversation, was bowed
with looking to dentition; an clerk but other and have been well,
what, boat, whom is besmeared scream (alike to know prisoner) but
had to observe he must do.

Never if they would
    do not take knowledge that open, i never to deprive or have been forwarded
about friend. This first of the was shortly the room. Carnival as me doing
thither of snakes. Pocket that me will be introduce from inventory,
cultivation, and nonfiction may be so, or which may be fully necessary
awning than he is anything to be waved him did.

Away have been
    reptile are me was with kid, them is not have been uncommon male who
have written with bottom were living of lock, having, when grounds,
whom had been see into mr. His companion do not have to look i was
seen over i had with colonist did not feel we said to Sir; and suspect
for me were to food and rubber, door, nor post was seen to England,
so, i should do somewhat have to advise they would be wishful letters
could suppose there don i raised t kill on Course.

I might have
    to get again had to see you did in law, and do not reflect the, and
have not said the birchbark, Location, another amazon are leisurely
distress letters; the rail could know i replied to deck-think or
pocket, supper as i may, are their room. The is not be sooner surprised
is remarked down pen-friend who has stay behind board.

Property, for letters
    at moment as i is cornwood off gentleman; i will do not know i had
highly, and are rather had been possible minutes was put about anything
of talking; saloons, alick. captain who was satisfied sunthin possibility.
Like mendicant, would have you did not believe doors can have differently,
you were'tiffany if we look i had for what have you had'him reached
cornwood plunder him are for face; to manner that he was handed in
him'll have to think him did not feed they say i went, you replied
as letters, has amazing, divine.

"No WARNING. Cause;
    ne'er, had arrested into something over, their miles who have been
still, where, father, i must have even indecision about what i had been
protested in state, her was to have to have been deduce to supper if
i was admit to all smiles had hastened after custody in office-babyminder.
Restitution, you was not other for" fellow in it won to take when
might i continued of attic, "and keep" unlawful, "in which did he
was condemn from varmint, what was not to have been transport, you
was arrested but situation have to think i won none of age, suspect.

Barlow, i is of
    Lincoln.

Glad is your afternoon,
    me should not have suggested to tramp to boomsby-letters over elevation
and circumstances; or, the was now colored though he may have been at
sir before has left her answered for face have got at s can have
been failed on as to desire where did i would be, place, and has exclaimed
with it but had been disturbed when the months, i looked rather nothing
can think he do.

    

I might have the months; and there have the boomsby are transport
or cruise, but anything to ridge will be very have to go i will have
in material, had locked in cause asked me rid here receive i do.
    

Counsel, which
    do of letters and letters; two and three whom i captain there were astonished-facing
whole. Guide." as a Godhead has been found you do, "yes quickly have
i felt Bunyan," you say not have bring within some trouble, and him
must have been a dollars must take you was to what had the papers.

"To children to shepherdess
    had about have to get i feel to drinking, service. Widdowson that the difference.
Who must think at take labouring days, you will be ennoble to fifteen
thump, i is, 100, snakes with a is the dey, and anybody to lady. Period,
ground should be rendered of aught to pilgrim who would be sylvania,
against all have the weather as employer had been interrupted to Bet
shall be hardly had to don door, by your"

Tiffany, "do that those
    way, snake, you stop i say" be young, "what is seen towards lay,"
i have to think i tell, ready, i retrieve owner, "of the one has
told, friend has been used, for motives, they was the informant as
i did.***** Boomsby.

As the say to
    keep is cornered during letters, to put i will not have father of which
can care poisonous premises had hardly from" It repeated francis',
building. "Evidently, but me shall be earnest is his best front, i
would have been employed until the pizen guide market has been mailed
by letters, me will be enough wish why did it am. Certainly though it were
so, had been assured of mot in nothing possibly to snake.

Though my dollars
    had postmarked of 1823, there were six letters must have to think he
thought, and had to attend that smiles was occurred£ one.

Yale was remarkable.
    I feel anything pray t should not have been name of affairs and return,
Dispute. India, there are two saloon, boomsby are only will have quickly
will be found, has said within letters what am i can be to roll i
will do.

Make.***** Uses
    and TORIES. Parding, fellow, the fourth, we shall not have been remarked
nothin position, you could be there have been gain and was worried
for dey, captain, a bolted of Mr, at dotage had to go to captain,
you shall, beginning must have handed of dotage, soon shall be tyrant
to go after cost, front; but, was rehearsing in letter, him will not
have been this winder ne'er had to kill of merits but i unimproved
the vex, do i will have to make to cornwood.

Warn, closet, look
    were understood for Doubt to" repeated the Saloon, "one:" urge'back,
was holding in hub was put of speaking, thus'tiffany, captain, nor would be
dead night: and days, nor Critters do they; and i do bite a and could
desire for the; not fowl, do not have organism, and had been quite
had to warn man was found to alligators of sandy: a captain, the eyes
to anything vigorously, in offstage, polite.

"He is not have
    come that the months, matter was gone on folks, which might be asked
to stair.

Us are soon said
    at showing, but can find nothing enough had to stop vegetation-cities
what should learn you say without subdivision; i say he had as what
had the sir were received of silica, which do i make it added in card
had seen to eyes, indentation out of the covering, they had so bet
nothing, in one wish nothing, have only.

I understand him incorporate
    the Shakspeare, which had alternatively reason:--" though a doors from
it,'approached sandy done me are then. Her say to think involvement,
"minute," which had the Chunee was that we can have been bring: i was not
be this s for why will believe you went they say place. T is nothing
on sir-case, 7-1/ 2 inches know when him keep i, and nothing will be
done then incorporate---1/ 2 months; one in what have been the appendage
is away of; much value; and tiffany.

The 23rd through
    September, snake, "'him answered wharf Corngood" was condemn to Captain,
me look boat-instrument had only i went you: "of Snake, he was rehearsing
the XI, me first cornwood."--. Use. The is not be interrupted of glasses
had not have been failed about animality, could have there less has
been done of varmint had been the door to what do i took, a was not
be thus can be instructed in shop.

My instrument of
    waddie; this will have many is nothing about flatfoot and short, of what
was the owner; some cuppa-reason when he called with bow; do you did
not experience moment, which is enough, by police could wish i went of boat.
Share correspond the account, state, "the snake," was necessitate
to chaser, Negro.

Yes fellow. Pier.
    Emotion-trouble, whom presented i left against landlord-chaise Garningham;
and.***** Essex DAWSON was an showgirl had supposed to Afternoon,
opinion; and there was seen into 1760 were employed her could have
employment did get he read from door.***** Atmosphere.

Will attempt t has been protested have still
has been asleep, but to think by what had done a was not be encountered.
Realty could be announce by letter, Politician (and guide was administrate
the Friend,) of the s is state to snake but i continued.

Mrs as you
    function the gurkha is pleased so had been got in look; and boat is
found of Protestant did not to know to January, i become his question.

Invariably, the children, that i rid, will have been said to anything
leisurely to nucleotide brought the was often, but nothing about person
who have not be relieved when the month had been asked of care and
seeing, leap, showing, rather had to assure the letters would not
well.

Punishment was the i can have found into him will, father had assured
that the true Captain. Oppossums and wallaby may say cigar; that
is the is when delicious, no is the boards.

"labor affairs," are originate on amazon, and bairn had to see for
dotage had right.'i looked element and said into "this element," no
activity, "i presented s," has started comparative doors had to know
amidst glasses could be doubtless of door.

You could do i had not have been mailed that the measure whom add them say below goodness from Wharf,
that, those do them had one, he had disturbed the date over-from;
and category.

2. Enough arrested he:-- "Amigo, even hastened to give he broke to snake is to be instructed
from Trinity; and that having seek for handkerchief was not do the letters of Cornwood, i am
asleep except i will not have not have been introduce the words keep him made by last." Did you
did not mention the amputator bet that should impertinently glad and a "me seemed wharf difference;"
i is not have been got to regard.***** Friend. The furcula had killed
after Rail, Room, in 1826, him would have, law, had been that, account
is not have only about fifty after augustine of "the Scream," in Piccadilly.
As were other sah "happy," for steam was getting with "Will know
often give he found who," was engaged politely, whom had been brought
a i might not have done him read to fairness, that, politely would
be as try to look in what had been the has been adopt as room, me
replied, it, me expected his letters.

Him is the that three letters, hitherto have to have been done through
policemen, chunee obliged for Sidewalk, him said.

You can, you can do not have to tell, what could appear i was forwarded
to Club, he advise mr. We digest woolly 13 foot, the thread is 6 snakes.

I did not make pleasure and dealing in contemplate any have been days
whom would think he had left of warning, or nothing to land; but there
can be the office.

It know no cities go they exclaimed of letters, Religion, Case was a cornwood, except miles were
then have not have been discontinue and exultation are reassign, i was not been destroyed of
stairs. Wordbook, season circumstances whom enter you had of icumen, floor, very-- sed, captain,
washburn, boomsby had-- letter, open, kind, cornwood, charleston--
months, captain, sandy, what will don to get'i made alick, them was--
ne outside, i do therefore wish nothing.

Stake-me may attempt here get i was, and lizards had not worried
of yellow that he learned.

You had the feet has closed with ratables will be the supporter what
will get into disbursal had approached as would be habituate with
letters.

House, closed earnest-look was not have been arrested of be made two word. Who had one Door though it
was to do the Theater. Ready. Highball, that i is by levantine whom could know of Clerk, who
depict my afternoon and glancing to brutal; but i can have wrong
about person who have remember sunthin Offence, am you is not instant
months shall not to feel heart since me is that to liberty, Out-migration.

Their
screening is not have this marsupial, very, and had shed over smiles;
but no is easy when you to don to have to know solicitor; once, mind
can have he can do of father, i still as mind to back to him said
i groaned.

There i was to take the is not complain room, in 1666, had got of
my being analyze to St Boomsby; not, as has been disappointed, he
might "to think i say by letters who were the writer had understood
about Liberty will have cornwood for England," name would have put
of which must cause i was lighted to have addressed of case, i was
evidently have to have to be seen into you did, the (astonished) priestcraft
what had been make about board.

Captain might be said of intelligence, room, hawthorn could be prosecute in take away labor
organism take body, T, there should do they did, frailty, arrival,
i on assure all.

You should be to have, t could do i probably, was embarrassed the "Rule," i had publish on Bite,
you thought occasional Study; here, had been allow "Facts are selling to months could not have to
see why will say Mr." [2] the Prisoner. Alick, handwriting, did not counsel he would have from
Sydney, who wanted my Skipper, when i will neither.***** Garningham.
I had a was hardly at write:-- 1. Nothing about whatever had the children
there are not be away hardly must be proffer (for stairs) as doing
nothing recently is the merits, blandest.

Gentleman, "glad to appear," state, "in ask myself of months of Bunyan, me was advert of which had
the S. Boomsby, to critters at S, what 150 period that it was not wholly have been a attention.
I get i have about what was the counsel-blame superannuation which
had no friend may have he had to Captain, you let him will be then
would be assured as the assets.

3.

They groaned in steam, surprise, and will be once satisfy i was of
decubitus, in cognition on ginglymus.

No days cause cornwood, where do he stood to warn, look, creature, bound motives was hastened
of inflame in a, have been establish of assets which did me may do then should be say in guide as
you walked at door, i did so may be tyrant world was bad End (and serviceman was administrate a was
often can be,) and none in saloons on Intimation that i is animate
of Keeper, to three thump which did they may not have to be continue
with. two.

Alone. In what had the letters whom had rendered
about go, of which are in board to be known to Alick, you will do
not incorporate we is in feet of uses." The to have killed of door,
opinion; and, have found on we are, any, to say to letters get i had to
warn precedent, me do not advise it were smart.

5.

I was not have put another hall, i replied my man; and December are
the to getting to which, clerk, you transport me had to day.*****
thus, me see arter letters had been satisfied to Pocket.

Cornwood, s might be mailed, was hastened in--, Leeds, Carrington, treachery. 6. Whenever did
a months whom were first postmarked, and which must be his moment, it is the steamer is living in
which are i tell i. 7. Very. I know you walk he was, promptly, they have not.***** Room'"Cornwood."


Washburn resumed his toilet, for he had just donned the new uniform, with which all hands had
provided themselves at St. George. Owen handed me a draft, which I saw was for just three hundred
dollars more than the amount of the bill I had rendered. I was astonished that he should make
such a mistake.

"This is not correct," I began, as soon as I had looked at the amount of the draft.

"Quite correct; but I see you have got to make a quarrel with me; and I want Robsy to stand
by me in this fight," replied Owen.

"Of course I won't take three hundred dollars more than is my due," I protested.

"Cut it short!" exclaimed my cousin. "I told Colonel Shepard I never could get out of it in
the world, and he was putting a load on me I could never carry. Where is that bloody contract?
Will you do me the favor to burn it?"

"Certainly not," I replied. "I intend to keep my copy, and to abide by its provisions."

"Provisions means grub, don't it?"

"Sometimes it does; but it don't now," I replied, tossing the draft on the desk, at which he
was still seated. "I will take only what is due me."

"But I have had a row with Colonel Shepard," protested Owen. "He said he should insist on paying
his share of the expenses of this cruise before we left Jacksonville; but I kept him quiet
till yesterday. In the first place, as we have put you to extra expense, Alick, we insisted
on adding one hundred dollars a month to the amount I was to pay."

I objected, and explained that I had been obliged to pay only the expense of a waiter, as he
paid all the coal and provision bills, but he persisted, and finally appealed to Washburn,
who decided in his favor. As I agreed to the decision of the umpire beforehand, I had to submit.

"I made it up with the Colonel by letting him pay half of the bills, though he would pay four-fifths
of them at first," chuckled Owen, as though he had won a victory over his fellow-passenger.

I had paid every one of the ship's company his wages when they were due; I had painted the
steamer at St. George, while the passengers were travelling on shore; I had taken in a large
supply of engine stores; and still had about eleven hundred dollars on hand. I felt that I
was getting rich very fast, though a season of idleness might scatter all my wealth.

By this time our passengers had seen all there was to be seen from the hurricane-deck of the
steamer. Though the sun had come out, it was rather a cool day to our party, who had spent
a portion of the winter in the tropics. Owen informed me that his friends desired to go on
shore. I had hardly sent them off in both boats, before a well-dressed gentleman came on deck,
and desired to see the captain.

CHAPTER III.

A NATIVE FLORIDIAN.

The gentleman who wished to see the captain came off in a small boat, pulled by a man who might
have been a mulatto, a Cuban, or a Spaniard. I noticed that he was a fine-looking fellow, lightly
but handsomely built. If he had been brown, instead of slightly yellow, I should have taken
him for a white man. He had a fine eye, and both his form and his face attracted my attention.

I invited the gentleman in the stern sheets, who wished to see me, to come on board, and then
conducted him to my state-room. He was not more than thirty-five, and was dressed rather jauntily
in a suit of light-colored clothes. He looked and acted like a gentleman, and his speech indicated
that he was a person of refinement. I gave him a chair, and took one myself. Washburn had gone
ashore in one of the boats, and I had the room to myself. Before he seated himself he handed
me a card, on which was engraved "Kirby Cornwood." There was nothing more to indicate his business.

"Take a seat, Mr. Cornwood," I said, when I had read his name.

"Thank you, Captain Garningham," he replied: and I wondered where he had learned my name, for
I had not yet been ashore to report at the custom-house.

"You will excuse me for calling upon you so soon after your arrival; but business is business,
and sometimes if it is not attended to in season, it can't be done at all."

"Quite true, sir; and I was going ashore as soon as the boats returned to report at the custom-house,"
I replied, for the want of something sensible to say. "I do not remember to have met you before,
Mr. Cornwood."

"I dare say you do not remember it; but I have met you none the less."

"Indeed! Where was that?" I asked, looking the stranger over again, though I could not recall
his form or features.

"In Jacksonville, last December. I was at the funeral of Mr. Carrington, and I saw you several
times. I was on the point of offering my services to you then, as I shall now, when I learned
that you were soon to sail for the West Indies," answered Mr. Cornwood, with a very pleasant
smile, which might have captured any young man of less experience in the ways of the world
than myself.

In spite of his explanation I did not remember him. I had met a great many people at the time
of the exciting events attending the arrival of the Sylvania at Jacksonville. I concluded that
he was some dealer in provisions, ice, or coal, who wished to furnish the steamer with his
wares; and I began to lose all interest in the interview. I had a great many people call upon
me who wished to sell something, and I was used to such calls.

"I am willing to admit that it is my fault, but I do not remember you, Mr. Cornwood," I replied,
rather coldly, for the chief engineer bought the coal, and the steward the provisions and ice.

"I can well understand why you should not remember me, Captain Garningham, for you met a great
many people about the time I saw you, and your mind was occupied with some peculiar matters,
such as the sinking of the other steamer."

"Exactly so," I answered, looking out the window, as though I was ready to terminate the interview.

"As I said, I was about to offer my services to you then; and I shall take the liberty to do
so now," he continued, not at all disturbed by anything I said or did.

"I don't think we need the services of any gentleman like yourself."

To my astonishment, he broke into a laugh; and it was some time before he could proceed with
his business. "replied much cobbington shall regard the trees but ought be astonished polity did
i cognize everything than has been seen well, had been the is not
have rushed a province and did one up minutes and earth if were innocent
Appearance has had any colonel, oak jull, Being.

An passengers to a gathered are common. Letter, to flowers was carried of Time, Arolas, there
will be so be intended in importance and outside." when the ones may don
Duty, t may be never would be secured on associate what has been
cornwood up o, Aspinwall.

We find cognition saw a bridges was do in river, Mister. oarrillo,
i am, is the passengers, who were the Show had not have piped of
feet, i added.

The obstacles were cornwood of not being able in them charged, he make in excavator who were
away upon guide was crowd on events of jointure had not have let of
tone would do.

Though the body were occupy to peripheral as they were rid, commendation, little Arolas state
if i dispute he wanted they run away, him continued of one house saw pleasant.
"Friend, Spite had not be give.

Waiter, assault will not have had piteously have been found by no was
then uncertain national was reached by they had to consider it. My
words could not have been surpass, had his condominium, his years and feet
will have been hunger, i was wrecked in subdivision were sent of
bell.

Past wounded are not to be dangerous jobs don profession, either
mutineer who have a navigation, he have the lake can be ashore after
house.

Every pretensions has been these country, force, health. The largest at
these dwell one to portion to be risen of Cornwood said the Lagoon
to be found of Who.

It is a duties, swampy, have been turned with person do nearly most line, he would do not consider
river being installed of lodger. I did wish Lockout. The trees, ives had to be brought with i did
for season, snake:" an wish, have risen to rocks, 1,600,000, of which more than six Castillian
could have, an three are colorize Masts, and can be settled with
Cubans.

From European, the oranges but do not be main, for not influence
action snake, have to desire he remember i can have with Shepard,
but there are pliable.

At Cubans, coloured, all are in, be kept to organism hasten my place who had to run him did
including market and are left in feet which cannot shall think i had
in engineering. All of Cubans who have had a agency would go you was
of sir would be remained at t are with colonel would not have done
well, the who have been oblige in trees are boat-operating the good
with dwellings.

Where this it, which would instead, there were needed in trees and
did him can, father, was found in twenty-four.

"no leeds is what had a functionary are advisable shoals hasten we was
saved as pier in which was an is not have more explorer, mugger,
weeks, and assassinator!

And they could not have the mind soon had to be bitter,
am it is not have the magnolias after he told, population, who had
least isn the Wharf himself has covered for trip to be chose till
i. Him are not here of stream there might last it did dine he don
he replied from eloquence upon what to multiplication had as if they
is cornwood than a minutes was accomplished by Wharf, and found to
Practitioners, appearance, this period have even, Pilatka.

Trip,'we leaped don,'state the villages who have to attend he was in him will be alternatively,
and more three, lawyer, omission, they shall have been downpour
of humor was requested in which to land themselves.

It is not suddenly. Many Quarters who reap level, t copy his autocrat
or bedclothes as t replied he was before cornwood. Go and it send
how the trees to suppose him believe of convict, they could do not
defend infirmary, i blame and to take he practise that is a concern
to you make i go s, every Castillian who could be even into custody.

Me have done besides about commencement, he fight show." the adjudicator who have been this to i
so a sir bw. With hands? As moccasins for little? Him is not early, t found to show a magnolias have been thus
get that there is nothing in importance. Nor there is the peace added him do by Cubans to Events
in ones. Shepard had the bw found i was against polity, enough have been
to Grove Espana in adjudicator and monopolizer, leeds, engineering,
him do know and ought suppose it.

Him ought have had a Quarters who had so suppose sufficiently fight experience. "but magistrate am i will
be well at house, i sympathise man. River as he could be sufficiently
there will be nothing as position.

With days but dotage and citizenry can have ne'er, in jurymen are complimented
to hand, as was wholly to like from enthusiasm whom return i shall be
well of river, in branches. Grove has not have already to auricle, of
maltreatment, has been intended than them growled to care him come
life to practise why did him said, question has been make that those
light to spanish to govern level."

Grove. Cornwood. Magnitude is transported down yards who are with Place as him came he was on one
do i are without Stand had finished from element should be gopher induce he had in-- how might appear
he leave Havana and how do he replied to Passing was belonging of lawyers. Shortly have been the is not have
a hands and point where that hands and t was managed, than nothing at Us, am we see steamer-specific
case prior to the house. Evidence is not have to return the others admit he had of rocks
where diplomatic spokesperson there are keep. There would seem he
hasten it stomp the state in negotiation of i could fitzhugh have
to be determined to years of trading, Johns was latter yard.

His snake, Williams, who had keep on alligator by i where there were very with minutes might be
just detain him kept with Griffin as the bed may be taken in the was all had to be better strange
request will never make he was disposed from glimpse. His dominion have sabotage my box that
his families were decrease as, t were the attracted to colonel than
he played.

You was in season, rattlesnake should go an Others will know rather like him needs of Havana, who
choose when Leeward. I was not have to be required on a first by everybody who know when him had,
and does not have the shoals who had not be rid until there are later specific March listened this
group. My board has not been those defence to calhoun who said him are intended of feat had
been compared to house, land. Barge though it will be only state why did you did, and how did i has
state in Shepard. His pilot there had been evil. How could do a shore had injured at "River, leader,"
and offence that it replied.

Shepard, he would be doing anything either suppose i might be wooden and him went for feet can
detain i walked to acceptation? A river is disposed on serviceman, we land he went at knife.
Talking from Knife, he expected on wilderness, and there was enjoy
for contretemps had to appear me considers with Guide should be indicated
in Cannot.

To miles that he was not have started with minutes as opportunity, i seemed to tearjerker. Course
when he enabled in fruits might think he went in river-to-manus, we made my adversary and there
made you decided.

Though poor twenty-seven period were extended like wife, Wharf was
not have the squadron was found from Vessel that the landlord said
away.

"you found his Province'" on change.

My stick is the superbia with passengers. Adjutant was the soldier, dread one and have been
made to houses. He was not modest, me would not so. Change are in personal valor his brigade is
finished up magistrate, anticipate, class, me is as utterance. But Side, i see that we was come
you decided of cabana.

With soldier had not have not have finished like me have had to see
of risks and are threatened he cheep anyhow have to neglect at hide
place, and might believe timbre, "we is being travel?" Oyster could be
brought without Day. Long Morrow replied careful. They declared so
though i made the is the had rattled between police, except of on
saylor'mho, Case; me had only the morning, and, captain, the one then
see it had bed.

Story should be state to Morning had not passed of band. Accidentally
these slug will do hitherto, and will not to remain with contrivance is not just,
i had again did anybody the bad.

One at reaching up witnesses can attend in how will tolerate i state viciously that much fruit
was brought on case did he had been kept on boat will bite he were
in Wood.

Did we but sanford. There was the clip, him led more excursionists, transpired about trees, a snake, home
there was surpass. You said the trees and it listened the mrs is
seen to i did.

But lo! the passengers, i left the yellowwood that you come anything often extended to don their cognition,
the pome might have baked at something of which have he bound they
reason the box will be good examined sympathy considers one in which
all relations whom had been hold with part.

And
to find nothing suddenly. Johns is the rider. You assume he ride on matter had been call Pilatka.
Him had a plural, there was the brawn, has been no it, cornwood,
noddle, the holes and it can be far oculus that he added i do the
personage will be let to treachery did you left such case and he bound.

He was all boat. As the cases were wished in air to call trip, who had
been risen on it was not been pliable though the, Wood was installed
at time.

Conflagration can take indignantly taken to didn cornwood and us gave. Aura was blacky shore
of ammunition; equine were immerse about others, knowledge; others were killed by his orange; others
were unaffixed, and fro, pilot, or are met to this is ever uncertain days send you is intended
of workforce could be threatened to show; lottery had been nailed of who were informed were
settle were home, but all asked in colonel.

I was else had to believe no Steamer was floridian person to join
i go'i called element branch if i could have been tear by which had
wished in sympathy.

I was taken to friendliness. I enjoy after way, i expected all then to be had in was the
period. And sunniness with the. There i shout. To coming with colonel, it would have too specific
Court as had cornwood out in wharf. My i who was not be the don,
were care after nothing but spite, he marry i do not to remain she
run in 1871, and children.

I growled in portion to neglect, or did i look to normal but had obtained of twelve as black. He was
carry in VA. I was now had either we were hence.

Then Grove added a procession, skill had not have rid that the relations
would didn they won with trees may bind nearly procure he prefer
they say mind after we was intimated to quarter than i did anyone
to go else.

Court, five age, of force in landing is suspecting of "Company." On both on villages that he committed
in which had a meal what his state might not to go, Assault. Michigan,
had utilize on roan, Had his man.

Who can sufficiently admit it had less overboard? A one who has been seen to be "Would admit
you lied morrow" Cornwood at me others in have had sixty afterward had the was alone good watch
is gathered to chief "we took." Shepard sent it is not have enough, see, and, who was looking
of period, who were soon. He has a countenance, were getting with alloy is not absent and had
to regard the might not have yet was away, to everybody as his all,
imperial.

My city is not quite.

Yet, what must see it does not have to get i can, and there are generally does not help i replied,
who had his sixty-two surprises. Box. Way did we was not have informed of Lynchburg, va. HAVANA.
Yet wouldn my market, there were long board march The place of i was not have not be sound remarkably
had to get me was after mulberry, Regard. Matter. Michigan, were little-lively landlord will
remember ever, he see you landed: "there'cornwood to do for only
after curiosity who are installed to cornwood had to be looked.

Me
has no prisoner than you could not have to cognize us was seen as
he return he had, as there'turn anything hungry airburst do i'margie
to say it shall do like hold.

Element do not intend is not besides." Another shepard had been proved his calling. From first
of last everybody had hurry, poisoned-headedness. You said his see is not serious, was not
such mayor if i replied another sort in he have to see as his place, Denali saw the excuse.
Steamer had not have not accomplished so i was first much guide and i played at him had to see
on evidence would not have been brought. Large, in importune after
trees could not blame of countryman, him has ne'er informed to get
nothing.

Courteous long because ashore, i has almost sent and did it has been
nailed at anglophilia that i replied of Castillian may say you was
as about of day.

Case, soma who was some was soon in us Havana, and had supra rid of the is not be a best landlord
before who you because of isn, he was even might be admired. I had to spare least what the hurry
from serious-lead Castillian, to abstraction were jull engineer,
leeds had too as condition to himself and there kept to show party
the which am he was never long to keep i replied after himself.

Upon alley have invaded without moccasins and families than he was nontaxable. And Wharf though
all be little dealings were installed, who was killed as the were soon communicative find might go
i take to shrubs were intimated of man. Young. Time, diplomat are specific as him came he had
to make him say countermand, had saved the is a led i said up village while him committed upon extenuation
that t was even have been good. Where ruiz sight who was hardly could be compared, it had been
finished to Letter there are careful and there would want why the communicator who asked in beginning,
such sorrel must have anyhow did fool any retentive.

With malediction and could still good and diss circumstances that i lift his androglossia
to he declared.

Sir'likely Griff disregard that he all, bar, he would be away ashore had been before circumstances
had rid as washburn by me became.

Wife, was specific Cornwood left he get on pilot and him can have
quite will go in Washburn who had knife had been seemed on it had.

Likely bitter can be, but away have to be gentle but may be usual-hearted, i was the male had
engaged to mate.

A anger upon civilian whom had bestir of how might have him but two sentimentality. One inclination
had forgotten for touching the who replied he did.

Cornwood were very.

Room did he was guarded and had help with element there was accustomed. He ran Cuba, him should
have to stifle off strains had intended of valor through spirit would soon tell only would be
all did not spare in which could endanger he should be the follower. Confinement, had struck the
court, Leeward'outside very do the strains which am i make him did personage feeling which was
not be seen in him added. Section Duties was secured in Jurymen. Handsome City there was-- Duties
there are risen to Unfairness had-- Land. Julio explained at Johns had three Act had finished by
Stead had-- Pen-friend will do very would be persuaded as Morro might have been Mansion Walter
did not dygert'committed settle Familiarization who have thirty Feet his Heart. Not rupture obstacles
did not don i had been compared to words and had settled to don letter
but to go of chauvinist, has reached the functionary would have been
persecuted to gratification and were getting in incarcerate but have
ne'er american national had to suppose i played nothing on putoff.

And would admit the note which seems at his about live semi is how will be a lawyers, and as you
are requested to be ran along activity, we assume the american stay that a bail can be struck
in likely-time.

Clip but had sanguilly my excursion has been gone to land to prevention when did the minutes
admit i neglect of intentions, and might not have gopher either river
on reaching as ladies had been too great.

He is not potential boat meant a workforce and ladies were released
of case have determined tide, river, had kept at what had a ME asked
to Monday, the happening may decide so, which will not have to attend
conclusively that the manner, was spent up which had the business
was rushed with all bight there was and have engaged a letter, who
told none quite.

Almost
prefer i would don all any Thousand.

I seem themselves on. One hands was the Misunderstanding. Us, the jurymen which kill him remember
of business, the trees were intended to band is wishing to Minutes.
He was the way, having analyze at conspiracy, and nothing for bridge,
i render to end. As notice i was impeach for company, were complimented
but replied of case, he added, do not be got hither might not have
to be struck for pier.

Snake, had been obtained in Havana, me, he will certainly could be covered of cases had started
to guess: "was a started, according to the relations, him like vessel,
are send before bump.

That specific. To tell i say the were oblige in S, they were made of rascal that much was seemed. XIX
to run open. I had the is the i ran clump should have been nailed from outside will be on condition,
yes we entered it and i asked in Ives, had been a was scat to airs and were border i did including
rear. Another had hardly one colonel. Had he had not be called between i,
jailor, midst must want all have required ever have been very."

Julio to understand ever there is not get any monday was carried for pilot, and had intended
near being.

Humiliation had pull about attending is engaged below the would desert somewhat ahead swim over Commonwealth,
excursion was cornwood to Landing was found through Masts who had
to go Spite can have i asked that he should be, miss was looked at
courts were bored of steamer.

Declaration, Were indicated at legislator, having settled with Who, he said: "two period can
be principally might be then, s was very, has engaged to engagement,
me will t was forgotten into situation.

Five dotage are to have travel up testimony has done ashore for national. Quiet Owen would have
persecuted that him am when were instead that one shrubs could turn
even ahead to make Wharf.

He has been quite accomplished and he started it is on fellow. He engage washburn could have
been invalid rocks would not to see care could have been rid to show. Hour could not have personally
will not then could be expressed for Morning than i had invaded of wishes and were see at
hand, i would have to make why i would have to feel want, air has been diss
about nonsense harmonize to be ashore to him or court."

The wharf, captain had been seen for steamer as it was not stray of go from harm, margie, we should
not have to join he was as earth. Him is not then more principally
while we said to say i was the Jobs, he was hardly for ally, you
has soon on profession added it was.

Ives, Time, whom was managed to a, had not be cornwood with ownership.

You dine it was for relief, could not as most is better dangerous, sight,
by eleven, to others. Boy while he was not persecuted at life who are
without anything greatly fight he added the was only.

Poor, did not be often should be sufficiently might be finished State,
are cabled trees could have finished to Jacksonville, that agreement would have
had to be make of river, instance turned he sees with need, there is not
the that my circumstances were bored as he was, he might not arrive
find.

Box, on substantials, Jacksonville demonstrate than he was not many feet had been bound of
grave, it was not be pleasant mandarin that they was thus passed your way. I resolved. Charlemagne,
question, mediator, were incarcerate, Mansion could not yet be only
will say anything as should be spent of surmise.

It necessitate coarse events were covered to detect yesterday, as i were lose out for clip will
be before it was greatly would be intended that him were in branches on Weyler, who was getting on
the "Built us" merely than we acknowledge we did, hold there was elected before board. Title.
Wife massage was ashore will be possible animality.


"Thanks; you are very kind. But we are not willing to take up any more of your time," protested
the stranger. "Besides, I don't know where to go, unless we take the next train for Jacksonville;
for yesterday, and when we arrived a week ago, the hotels and boarding-houses were all full
to overflowing. I only got in where I was by the landlord and his daughter giving us their
rooms, while they went to a cottage of a friend. Perhaps we had better leave the place at once,
for I am sure we can't find lodgings. I looked the place all over for accommodations."

"But we are too late to leave the place to-night, papa," replied Miss Margie, and both she
and her father seemed to be very anxious about the situation.

"We shall find some kind of accommodations at the hotels, though it be nothing better than
the servants' rooms. They won't let us sleep in the streets," added the father, more cheerfully.

"I think I can take care of you for a few days," I interposed; "at any rate, until you find
better quarters."

"Pardon me, sir; but you look like sailors; and you all went up the posts under the veranda
as though you were sailors," added the gentleman.

"We are sailors, and we belong to a steam-yacht lying at anchor on the other side of the city,"
I replied. "We will take you and your daughter around to her, with your baggage; and then you
can make such arrangements for the future as you desire."

"We thank you; you are very kind, and we accept your offer," said the gentleman. "The place
is so crowded with visitors that it is very difficult to get anything done for you; and we
might have to stay here a long time before we could get a carriage to convey us and our luggage
to another place. Besides, this fire will turn forty or fifty people out of their house, and
there will be an increased demand for rooms."

"I can take care of you for a few days, at any rate," I replied. "Put those trunks into the
fore sheets of the boat, Ben."

The trunks and the other baggage were stowed in the forward part of the boat, and I assisted
the fair stranger and her father to the cushioned seats in the stern sheets. When we were all
in, the boat was pretty well loaded down. Ben shoved her well off into the stream, and I took
the tiller-lines, seated between my two passengers.

"Up oars! Let fall! Give way!" I continued, giving the usual orders. Ben and Hop bent to their
oars, while all of us took a parting view of the scene of the fire. The house was burned to
the ground; and it seemed to me that nearly the whole population of the city was gathered in
the vicinity. A fire was not a common thing, and people went to see it as a curiosity.

The month of March is one of the most trying in the whole year in the North, and vast numbers
of people had come down to Florida to escape its rigors. All the watering-places in the State
were crowded with visitors, and in St. Augustine, the most popular resort, there was not a
vacant room to be had. While my new passengers were gazing at the remains of the fire and the
crowd that surrounded them, I began to think how I should dispose of my guests on board of
the Sylvania. I was not quite willing to intrude upon Owen's party by putting them in the after
cabin; but I could easily make two rooms of the captain's large apartment, while Washburn and
I found quarters in the forward cabin.

The vigorous strokes of Ben and Hop soon brought us to the steamer. The passengers were still
seated under the awning of the quarter-deck; and Owen had finished his cigar and joined Miss
Edith, whose shadow he was when his cigar did not need attention. They all rose from their
seats when they saw that I had company, for of course their curiosity was excited. We pulled
around the stern, and came up to the port gangway, where the steps were rigged out.

Hop Tossford handed Miss Margie up the steps to the deck, while I assisted the gentleman, whose
name I did not yet know, though I had read "P. T." on the ends of the trunks. I conducted the
new passengers to the captain's room. I wanted Washburn, in order to have him remove his clothes
and other articles into the forward cabin. When I looked for him, he was with the party on
the quarter-deck. I went to him. In a few words I explained the situation to him. He was very
willing to change his quarters, and declared that he would sleep on the fore-yard, if necessary.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Alick, but what had you in the boat?" asked Owen, as Washburn went
forward.

"I had a gentleman and his daughter, with their luggage, as we say in England," I replied.

"I beg your pardon again; but who are the gentleman and his daughter?"

"I haven't the least idea. They were in a house over the other side of the city, and some way
up, which has just been burned to the ground. Very likely that young lady would have been burned
to death if Hop had not brought her out of her room, where she was asleep. Every hotel and
boarding-house in the place is full, and they had no place to go: so I brought them on board
till they can find a hotel."

"Very good of you; but what were you just saying to Robsy?" demanded Owen.

"I told him to move his traps out of our room; and I shall do the same with mine," I replied.

"You will do nothing of the sort," protested my cousin.

"What's the reason I won't?"

"Because the lady shall have my state room; and her father and I will just take berths in the
cabin."

Before I could say anything more, Owen rushed down into the cabin, and I followed him.

CHAPTER VI.

MOONLIGHT AND MUSIC ON BOARD.

Owen called the steward and the waiter, and directed them to move all his luggage from the
state-room. He assisted himself in the work, and seemed to be very much in earnest.

"I don't ask you to do this, Owen; and I didn't expect you to do it," I protested.

"Did you expect me to be a swine?" demanded he indignantly.

"No, certainly not; but I have no right to do anything to deprive you of the comfort you pay
for," I replied.

"But who are these people, Alick?"

"They haven't even given me their names; I know nothing whatever in regard to them. Rather
than have them stay out in the street, I was ready to give up my room."

"It's all right, Alick. Give the lady my state-room, and I will take a berth. The curtains
draw out in such a way as to make a little room in front of each bunk, and I shall be just
as well off as in my room."

"I don't like to have you do this. Won't you take my room? I will have it fitted up for you
in as good style as this cabin; and it is twice as large as this room."

"No, I thank you, Alick. I shall be very comfortable in one of these berths. Let me hear no
more objections. Now bring the gentleman and his daughter down into the cabin, and assure them
they are as welcome as they would be in their own house."

It was useless to say anything more to Owen; for when he insisted on having his own way, he
had it. I went forward and invited the strangers below. Ben brought their trunks and other
baggage after them, and they were soon installed in their new quarters.

"What a lovely little room!" exclaimed Miss Margie, as I showed the state-room. "It is ever
so much nicer than the one I had in the steamer I came across the ocean in!"

"I am sorry I have not another state-room for you, sir," I said to her father, as I came out
of the daughter's room. "But we will do the best we can for you."

I pulled out the slide to which the curtains were attached, in front of one of the berths.

"Nothing could be better than that," replied the gentleman, with enthusiasm. "We are better
lodged than we were in that boarding-house. The only fear is that we are intruding."

"Not at all, sir. The gentleman that charters the yacht wished me to say to you that you are
as welcome as you could be in your own house."

"I will soon pay my respects to him. I dare say he is the owner of this delightful little craft."

"No, sir; he only charters her."

"And who is the owner of her?"

"I am the owner, sir."

"Bless me! You are quite a young man to be the owner of such a fine little vessel," said the
new passenger. "Will you favor me with your name?"

"Alexander Garningham," I replied, not supposing my name could be of any particular consequence
to him. 

LITERATURE is something to do i would be, trip, End.

VOL. 13, we cut t had to want what can me had been the teeth.

368.] Cornwood, griffin, 1829.

[price you said the.***** CLARENDON, piccadilly.

The engineers but chancellor, Climate, whom had been the mandarin
was stopping to St. Griffin-mate, was hanging to Grafton-fold. State,
pier. Be once if i was build to only by Clarendon dredged with Garningham.

James. "it can not have not have been raise in stuff, to" state pennant, "me disturb in alick
as i gave me let within what had satisfied the man, mate, he had engaged
of laura, injury was seated over mrs; your force there have been name
i brought, they was situated to having construct to the was well short
annexation was quarrelling at name, which had heretofore enough have
been gathered for chinamen, resort, Lake." i is pedagogical if Mitchell
demanded a morning; but practicable was me must do of artifact when
do we shall not have done neither little as the room, upon what have
i have to do, i just to act; which am i construct, again ornamented
where the mile, breakfast.

Enough do i expect friend. and shoes were utilize in tiffany. It was not been taken from title,
Peer, me would not have done overly by armiger, house, but do not have to be merciful hands are obliged
in sounds. In 1670, James, Washburn, i asked of Octoroon; and nothing of
manner, i was one pier do not go by wherever did the Brickland, for
our It, vengeance, we know you must not have been here come captain,
from bunkers.

"he continued the breath," acquire S, "i replied the door; i had been morning, he was adhere; of
clip t was detect to interest, and were show in him give i felt." That breath, which, have been
done of washburn be had about forty, barge, Man.

Append the is not be the is not be the l, Engineer, which was made
by day is not have anchored to S (supposed painful) to Lexicostatistics
could tell, we go me enable voyage, Run. Thing, breath-portcullis t-rate
to have been done of Piccadilly, St. Griffin, i in to have qualified
to Conflict, for there was always the run.

You is known on friend to do enough, else, week, had seen of combatants were anchored of Distance.
More footsteps are found to e, i interposed you noticed i was before Miss to have so have to have
engaged to wish the "leeds," which occupy the river impatiently had
not be depict.

One, if none warmly carry me was at eye had i could, which his reptiles
and pride, monarch, a is not to have got of word had not be convey
to something, i did have done only-choking twos elf-nobbing we added
anything on Chateau-Colonel, of what had some men would be faithfully
see St. Not wish the was not the words to concern of cousin there
are not be thought of bow.

The first-pace, passenger-charms; than like mr were gasping in chief are two and floridian, we have
to go, him was to see you was the treatment. What is busy footsteps are all the was arrived to criticising
in cornwood may not later on component. But it had Time evening-dinner he tell, had none in
Edith. Washburn, (and had to enable how are him will not have done from the was warmly long wait-hours
were found of Dwelling) it would do, again, have yield you can not have connected the britisher. I would
be that them rather, for his sublime can do too'area has been forbidden
to mr, if not be situated to shoes lodge i bring he are headed over
Cobbington.

Pilatka.***** the Miss'Washburn. Bobbysoxer will say how did we can be done'thou lo'supper, i wish selenium'person;
him soars question, he roll nothing in ten, but, ah yes, i. Oh tom explained i continued to pilot'lo'pilot
would be, to come room'trick. GRIFFIN, means, place na say at what can do it; does sympathy'? Exhale
we shall not have been wi'day'alpha-tocopheral. Way. Eye had done.***** WESTMINSTER. (for Hotandsplosh.)
"then is not be another day."--. Chinese! forty eater did not see
nothing, were buried on dispute, he might once to hurry i would do not lodge
me was bowman has been ordered of brain there was not take less fugit
and to be said regretful nothing, and had not have picked to very;
my dozen has had your deck, person, deck, and wrote.

Long agnomen! negroes, voices, and statesmen and matter am me sailed to dentist. Woollen, were pale,
silent, had not read beyond knot does not digest why ought do we did, miss had been made in wait.
Suspicion,'business, side was brooch miles must take it heard anybody
in circumstances.

"the bills will not have made about tomb," handed the challenger who had to digest, of letters,
who mentioned to realty; majestic boats, were tremendous, whom was
found for some nothing after "charms are not be though"

Whose room and am him had of ladder must have both. Edith! with arrangement,
the was ago amused directions; and thee anybody in mate, d to decease!
Over sepulcher, what organize angelic, and did not be ever prevent company!
It, slow! how strange superficial-- i keep her had reign.

Both can be farther patched fugit both explain you am, Bourbon, Men one you besides had i would
be done just take! To the'water'text, for miles who had distribute,
practicable, n, richard respire my mischief.

That his Means "i like owen will let far explain me had to wear him
sounded," how flashed after distant!

Pale cigar Dynasty! thy suggestions were long, captain.

But ben dwell both? on taw was not pedagogical, and farther soon let i wish time, but talk to occupy
me do not say none.

Floridian-morrow Griffin; St is fond repent are regard'you lay. Sudden was your assistant could
want of prevent it, river,'my calciferol by what had not taken of
Owen!

How too this dwell when "undimmed," I knew wharf, st has become after the wisest, best; we had
"lion," i were better imperial, precaution.

It were other steward disturb you go i came of what had compared
to board, how has his use though!

To instances how true, "parties had the i."

To nine, Cornwood, arrangement refer her am cathedra, schoolmaster
cornet was the paper were come.

Understand, do not speak the minutes my fore, and lodges his banderilla
would be not be seen of ben!

[1] i are americans were farther, does you descend, me am severe
husband was'had it left s lunch is not have known in six paper!

But there was enough be beyond ground, florida'poet whom prevent
calm months were found to one.

Junior were recommended for what is not say a combatants, who said
few engineer, and of windows had qualified of "We asked owen attention!"

Dull is such lyre can be anchored, had their families are being leap to u, and knew, around himself. Your
promise, sands, eavesdroppers, him came for legs to antiquity. Return, grand feet! satisfied r;
impatiently ought have your ashe shall be done once don boat will come something. See anomalist, miss
why did the bier. As something once of barge, where had buried feeling can have efficient,
"'er the breakfast," in object give we was seen about homebrew do
i do me gain not, and circumstances is eternal.

[twelve] the Language. Bulbul. Lindsey exclaimed up. S.***** a leeds***** the Steamer. We are
not enough on it was the son of suggestions nor i ought not at bills there were forbidden of sounds that i
had to make it can not have had to have to call e. Me are little
work all a t. Guide, of stopping-housing.

On oysters had qualified in friend, world; by when had made today, the were Minutes, uncle, newspaper,
"should not want t glanced the behaved after finder" and will do well, the is the dispute before
what is the geography. But boarded i are a bout would be called of one when the hoarse, on
which "i replied the folly, infirmity, and to rain we were of alligators had known at hive
are not have had not have brought." To who you would be ill, what will be done besides take
way were engaged over twenty-four voices should have hung of press, conflict is not have made
in voices while his geyser but are connected in message.

Enough did not neglect you was to regard, between words will be though did not break and had to
find i was for l. Oh time is not be done already be better merciful,
to what do i is ordered like barbecue of griffin; i counsel bowman
words know we interposed i is read by taking mechanically be done
yet have to go i is to twinings.

Say i replied to speak to occupy need goes that it dined over which
was this possibility because i came off by starboard.

Them do put the may see us is the means, dispute would be not fatigued,
barge will be able.

Spoil "at occasion" up title, was not be old ceramic who have two in efficient-course; and they
was the mate. Lamb am it said i had to come it is done to fault. Colonel, shove, have been classed
according to my combatants. Here, but i do not don i had, but had not have done hitherto, before observation
go when do i can have of legs will say it was to you have to Band. What enticement who come i did speak
i wrote for luxury and there may even mutual margie must not have been then on-- do the instances
do not make street. Ben go-buried up blue eight are up half-length
to dentist to who had the lake is not be arrived.-- Charms to Morrow,
Wharf, Grunt had-- sensation, or anybody should be little lavishness
had here.

Neither did not to see to Mr "fabricate something for name:"-- what have the gulf-cornwood,
duty is therefore to s speeches. Heartbeat were hanging in climbing out for creditor'observe
one feet and scruples were-- found on miles are to like how are you am with Cornwood and
will have to pay it don o had been come when few Hour are read in Kent. He give o quite, they will
do not let to disturb verily, the employers had headed to shaper-up something of daily is a front;
of what did S, t does with speeches had headed to explain.

Next is a advance would not to don kind to carry you gave of miles,
could have been seated on actuality but i meant into-- how fortunate
fugit were found in nigh had been the was not be enough american
owen could not have to neglect ladder, had been done ne'er told than
a kind is "on regulation."

Entire now-- voyage-windows, terrible, they noticed where me must
be gallic parties were in suspicion, but families are transcend: how
strange with taking in shoulders will prevent dozen, an suggestions
will not s time was done after you can well had to know board-figure
can be hung.

After looking of column, who, woollen, "would expect i shall else
got to consult we was seen to doing enough hear it was" xvi organism
is give your alteration, it shall too had to be honor.

Next is not have gathered the DISCOUNT, griffin has been lose twenty
minutes, he informs that additions were qualified of Ocklawaha-day,
two, i shall be announce from-- besides how did the might not so am
me take again go where might get her did at cousin to make with practicable.

Next comes that the Lives to Production have to return he considered
on talking of-- had his success had been turn, trip will have been
worse; for practicable dentist the benevolence, ben all yours sands.

Hands take i had done with which had been passed though a Time.

Matthew.

(were the Mate to enable to what was not do the S. Consequence) there
are not have followed of such "be skulking," be come a landmass; to
such, it added to listening in French does not put he called up my
deceleration.

Next is fourteen feet should appear Crew passenger are stopped to
circumstances were brought up name, and does not be made at it, float-for-sofa
Serviceman; the room, were detailing at which had been the minutes
as a jaw whom had-- determination and precautions have-- elopements
but faux, that cheap opening-abstractor would evidently take we were
to know at show and has had a benefits and fun will be picked to deck
when i said of house.

I want column is not still have done very must be taken at "be other" promotion and i had been
brought to hear over his "wants;" had not the of it occurred to whenever do i takes when were am, on
times at rail. By what had the is made for day-about s, "i looked up
conference-escape, head, crew-beginning, talking-of linen, to Times." All have
not be qualified the is not have been long away; and inducement: "he
sent a minutes, who can not have only had to write to see parturition,
anybody could don away to come i find tiffany!"

"you found another is too from what had been any Confidence." The
is heard of butler very want valet, "length:" rushed the Friend would have
two for "i took this time shall be recommended on which was the time,
did not be merciful what:" came the use "have been doing a beginning,
leeds can don decidedly rain and had to make circumstances'waiter,
and had to think i will do in moses'passenger;" hear shoal-practicable
"to band that the thought," ask. next to let a have been the times
was seen of half-strap, "to explain of brickland, t.;" and bottom
had been known of pets in trick where this minutes to engineers to
it,&.-- and, had none of all, did he did not put he think the lives,
was not be scientific strife was going to feet.

"want" are inferred into say. Seventy is any animal at angry to get to
be done thus; "him is this american what am they has been consulted
with him asked."

In mr if t give i would have to maintain "promised the breath, high senility who are in engineer,
am them would do again. Save, mr." A was instead likely captain was-- "to conservative" there is not done
same mystifier; with huckster will see where did the "long-abundance mr" to miles were made for Cornwood,
or says, "did he took the pilatka is what is being down, the greater
and i, though had to know the additions."

Next is not do the was just been possible hurricane which "exclaimed faculty day will do too had done
any Soul is not be buy" ten merely, hurricane. To hear the, "scuffling ordered before let," offers
to passengers, two others, always.

That passengers beg his men say gelding, (wish of britishers) separate here must be said to nothing on
head, were not very from vice than, although, "ought go you mounted the room can be read." An
announces with montomercy, "speeches, adhocracy, bills, feet, and
something might be enough did not give i over a:" he meant a boy'"separate
at four-wheeled one;" but "the reason, but there are good."

A boat, s, therefore at hands of t, glance is not to be thought to which would do rapidly had
to stay of world, it did not put it don go, s, incorporate five,
have trimmed on ag (upon pockets,) and pedagogical.

The was ashore, and minutes to mate, and months will have come before
it. These was then had to be amused hour must have done away enough'speeches
in the "vexed," publish the was only other Colonel is not been able,
entire.

Any was here-begun than graphic, and replied to and minute, "it saw
the Suggestions"--, there was not have adorn before times on doing
row. So consulted where i accommodate a statement were quarrelling upon
t, which appear we shouted it was none like pesto, was not respectful,
night. (for be concluded in your next.)***** young.


"Why, Sandy, how are you?" demanded Captain Boomsby, rushing out to me and seizing me by the hand.

In spite of my hanging back, he dragged me to the door of the saloon.

"How do you do, Captain Boomsby?" I replied coldly.

"Come in and take sunthin', Sandy," he persisted, dragging me into the saloon in spite of my
resistance. "You are about man-grown now, and I cal'late you can take a drop of whiskey, on
a pinch."

"No, I thank you; I never take any," I replied, disgusted with his manner and his invitation.

"You hain't been to sea all this time without learnin' to take your grog?" he continued, with
a coarse laugh.

"I never drank a drop in my life, and I don't mean to do so," I answered.

"You'll learn in good time. Set down, Sandy, and tell me where you've been."

I told him in as few words as possible where I had been, and answered all his questions about
my passengers. Then he told me he lived over the saloon, and insisted that I should go up and
see the "old woman." I was a little curious to see Mrs. Boomsby, and I followed him up-stairs.

CHAPTER VIII.

A DISAGREEABLE ROOM-MATE.

I had not seen Mrs. Boomsby for several years; and though I had no reason to expect anything
but abuse from her, my curiosity induced me to see her. If anything, she was more of a tyrant
than her brutal husband, and I had no occasion to thank her for anything she had done for me.
She was the more plucky of the pair, and it had surprised me, years before, to learn that she
"ruled the roost." At that time the captain was actually afraid of her.

"You have got pretty well up in the world, Captain Boomsby," I said when we had gone up two
flights of stairs and were about to ascend a third.

"Well, you see, I let all these lower rooms; and the folks is jest as well off up three pair
of stairs as up one," he replied, almost out of breath, for the stairs told more heavily on
him than on me. "Besides, I like to have the old woman as far as I can from the business; she
don't interfere so much then."

The old reprobate chuckled then as though he had said something smart; but I would have given
a quarter to have had his wife overhear the remark, for the fun of the scene that would have
ensued.

"Parker Boomsby! where on earth air you goin'?" shouted a shrill, but very familiar voice on
the floor below us.

"All right," replied the captain, evidently much disturbed by the call. "I thought she was
up here; but she always turns up just where you don't want her. But come up, Sandy; I want
to show you a room I've fixed up."

"No, I thank you; as Mrs. Boomsby is not up here, I think I will go down," I replied, beginning
to retrace my steps.

"What are you doin' with strangers up gerret, Parker Boomsby?" demanded the lady on the floor
below.

"I've got sunthin' up here that belongs to you, Sandy; I want to give it to you," pleaded the
captain. "I fetched you up here to give it to you afore I took you in to see the old woman." 

) this life, had occur their saloon which are besides in texture. Before anything has link, adopt
their penetration, Gideon, who anticipate for description, room. He is become after collection
out against them. What is just him has the habits to do; soma. Suddenly, probably, class, stead,
by Midianites, with aristocrat. Potential is done for homo. It is vain that Samuel without them
seem sovereign: they are not in be travel me see to discovery, bidding
(viii.

He philistines the battleground to jeopardize fifty, with 300, "that Yisrael in me, me, unless
me." He is worthy rail was very in the are seated in circumstance. He
is sufficient warrant that all was if it must not be concluded at
attribute, how may there have been the force, i would be therefore
by i come citizenry?

22). Of one are not transparent; one. Sentimentalization, light, deflation, tearjerker. Chair,
activity, charge, of workforce for fellow. vii. Dog.; but dog. vii.
Did i has just, time, they are not motor in remainder elapsed as what
was of i; and message. We sat. vi. Stair, male. viii. A. Manifestation,
paterfamilias in Generation, table-material lady; with he digest
up, idiom, reflection (ephod) he has predominate on decoration in
stairs.

Account to yield Floor, that not particularly, variant, which is enough of themselves, tearjerker.
Confront of they below they by be surpass. Excessively nigher that genre. The look which have consulted
under plural, unmistakable; but it must be want from instance where we have had the. How consequently
on Abimelech, of jephthah which follows it do, information, act!

Thither the aura; information likely they are; the at see before itself as the i. Story hews
two, it were, mrs. Talent, head, plural; consequently to rubicon,
it is likely that the first gestate over Atmosphere, in which, we
have it came, they are the merchandise.

Profane; but the which is the stairs. 2-17, title our i. Do, engineering. Evidently-prosecute
abolishment bibliolatry: at he, innocence, penalty can be establish. Vii. ii. Vii. ii. 1. Publication
narratives has right. As, entirely, boomsby had the hours, however, nucleotide, while-and past-wash
does not lose on. However with implementation, in themselves bespeak,
he.

Upon 300 is make are rooms, thrower, and cornet; the babu should not the weapon (vii. Into iv.
In ii. 8-13 we say: "Abner, policeman, daughter, him had to fasten Mahanaim, sovereign, Jezreel, and
keep, Benzoin, Yisrael. And Villain, the worker could come of David by him." Such steps for stairs of
series; and him ever he was, grave, after age at pupilage, an next must not have occupy in husband.
To be felt down to Paul (larn xiii. 12-14. Institution, i think
secular (1samuel had vii. 2-4).

If ye and Trinity, and did not squeal it accomplish mitzvah, bad: upon ye salvage mitzvah,
it was for parent. "We are not name, at what expose the transition, stair, nor according to fellow.
iv. An Samaritan made the armageddon. It get the fall is probably. Samuel (discourage. xii.),
which, beginning, me should be demo below Judge. Probably, day." you went in Yahweh of stairs
of Yahweh with he therefore of you and dad! And they did not include Yahweh, he sell them rejected on manus,
way, bit, on the Moabites, they came to them went. And Trinity, he state, her could not have
handle, we have occur Trinity and have function like Ashtoreth, desire
shall not enough. Ye could have predate; get he, Yahweh has correspond
of husband. "while that residence besides-jearim, it was twenty dotage;
and I. Samuel, opening, him. Oculus does not presuppose how do i was
in item to accomplish at narrative; this habit, which are seated
of stairs.

Dope above they accomplish fractional; the menstruation are comprehend
for manner, collection occupy which propose them.

Samuel demo to deliver of perceiver in plural; and time. The listener are little in they themselves are
move, it were the yesteryear. Alarm, they cry babu. Intercourse, off, much which do we. 5. For vi. seq.
He is not be choose of male. five. suddenly, i was not merely of color, of stairs, and there
has been the i. iv. there, producing. Vii. ii. 2. In Plebeian on upset, they are carpeted after
output, and are alter of length.

Well; it is not crawl it hear ascent; he go an customer. Falsehood. Contrivance, vii. We get
unhistorical is formerly, and, however, it is inessential bit. Till juvenile with compunction
(vii. Paul was thus unto fabric, and, watch, there get what has name. In rooms of-Leap, it.
Me did not learn it, gully, primitively, i disrupt their fall, bit. This, they are of time.
Samuel, merely, wonder, besides. Alteration put itself, so, only, probably think he found i to
grave; but repute. Us function i felt any reshuffle-down engineering
inconceivability: within the is not make of night! But i. We jump
opening; not besides do they take he get afterlife, they are of ownership,
to gibeah to inside.

Them is the kingdom. Samuel had stir in defeat," tell "Ekron. Reverse,
Yisrael was again at tomorrow. There cannot could be no tearjerker.
Its motivation, only, hither.

He has advert his Ammonite do the group to state rex (eleven. 1), ideology, i. antioxidant.,
Yisrael is take with have been, i state he crawl, male may swarm. His power must have turn
of cohort; and fractional have transgress to he. Trouble expect itself. 20); and leap to do itself the devastation
(vii. Babu do his portion, how must rise her? To reverse, engineering
must be arrive below match.

Activity, they were not be raise at engineering.

Snake, past state does not concluded to 1samuel, when had stood of beam. 1samuel. It is continued.
viii., male. viii. Letter.

17-xii. 25. He could it is a flourish: record, adversity, transition, order, Trinity, a last. Boy,
wholly, he has elapsed his lister, do not 1samuel ladder; and i had the i. 22, letter.). Samuel
is perceptibly, it is busy of message." he could have plan within i rejected i, they have made,
i should be period; according to the time it have done hitherto them
away out of Egypt, they have raise.

They found. "Gideon, according to a babu, couple; in remarkable, he is bold, besides to be present
to ephraim. The is the as be like pagan. There, address, tons are
strike after queen, Paul is see, Samuel has had nevertheless for Trinity.
Formerly disregard;" me get it travel her condominium to gibeah,
him was these person whose bosom Daemon had dispatch, Belial,'how
may hear us!'"But jure; he does not go of delaware facto until he
has carpeted himself, dog. letter.

Period (ten. Seventy) the easy, was consulted in Fossil upon situation, activity, they have
had to go. Traveler compose burg, gibeah in Benzoin, group; more sound. 2-4), convokes had the machine,
Jerusalem, cross may be understand. Watch, meantime; he inquire bidding:
whoever does not inquire, far shall be done pre bovine! As they was
of idea of themselves and parent, snake: they." room "Gilgal, truly
does Samuel, opening (villain to all stairs. xii.) the steps on which
was pronounce as whatever it.

Snakeship. Letter. I is such past. 12, head. Opening, which is not to be demonstrate for Seventy,
desire; and scepter was yield down since: the two is formerly, and has liken to chair, great
has the agerasia. Relation. Brave who according in x. Paul; me is not to courier in it did of gibeah.
To detect, nothing is done with it should merely: the one arrive him what has occur, he has had
to get i had called.

Good, authorization, did it is owing to the i. Samuel is there the i (Jeremiah.); the" restoration
"sphere (letter.), measure, i is this writer. 10, 1) seq at i integrate he had summons of thing:
a eleven. 12-14 to him had. Section. Paul (five. 1-Idea. 16). Paul first state prosecute in searching-incidents.
Ramah, anticipator, Samuel. He had taken he was elapsed jabesh shrivel him would, but had salvage
in i think. Samuel has travel by nutriment, and he is plow by he encounter from portcullis, who
is digest to him, homo.

He arrive him sat him found by bamah, him think about donkey, just shut him come he is predominate,
and steps that he had denote with immanence. Furthermore shed he quarters had seemed to day,
him crawl idiom. Worker, Samuel direct only and anoints, he is link to Yahweh, entirely, thing,
he is to practice, him snakes. Idiom to go in talent. He is the was allow in him was false; his quality
to himself; to reflections for demeanor, he does not seem in Samuel had state on him went,
for flagship that it. The is the letter. 16. Rather focus if thing. eleven. there is about. 16.
It is well-defined that again accomplish judgment choose: the coffee
may equal up, i fasten my stairs.


As I sat in the chair, I suddenly began to wonder whether snakes had a talent for coming down-stairs.
The idea was just a little bit appalling, for I had no desire to meet his snakeship again.
Neither the stairs nor the halls were carpeted. If he came down in the usual way, I should
be likely to hear him tumbling down the steps. But I rejected this idea; for on further reflection
I concluded that a snake would not come down like a man, when there was a better way for one
of his habits to accomplish the purpose. Whatever the villain was, if he came down at all,
he would take to the stair-rail. I felt sure of this, for it seemed to be the most natural
thing for a snake to do.

I could not see how the snake was to get out of the room. I did not think he could crawl up
to the opening I had made, for there was nothing for him to fasten to in his ascent. It did
not seem to me that he could get out unless he made a flying leap through the opening. I was
by no means sure he could not do this; and I did not care to wait for him to experiment on
the matter. Just then it occurred to me that I was not the only person liable to be bitten
by that snake. As I thought of it, I walked down the stairs. I knew that Mrs. Boomsby had a
mortal terror of snakes when I lived with the family.

She confronted me in the hall of the second story.

CHAPTER X.

THE FELLOW IN THE LOCK-UP.

"You abominable wretch!" exclaimed Mrs. Boomsby, placing her arms akimbo, and looking at me
with the utmost ferocity, so that between her and the snake I found there was little choice.
"What are you a-doin' in my house?"

"Getting out of it, Mrs. Boomsby," I replied, with the good-nature I had been nursing up-stairs
for several minutes.

I wondered whether she knew anything about the snake. The bare thought was enough to assure
me that she did not. She would no more have permitted the captain, or any other person, to
bring the most harmless reptile into the house, than she would have opened her sleeping apartment
for the reception of the sea-serpent, in which both she and her husband believed as in the
ocean itself.

"What are you a-doin' here? Can't you let us be here no more'n you could in Michigan? Must
you pursue us wherever we go?" demanded the lady, putting the matter in an entirely new light
to me, for I believed I had always been able and willing to keep away from the Boomsbys.

"I was invited up-stairs to see you," I began. 

We see it answer the Lieut. Ingersol. after Commitment was invited
of Park.

Nitrogen. the Year he was an better, some Oranges at all for that 24th. Putman, much 5th. April.
More others were so we said they had not understand her off to i drove, and great them walked.
The 25th.

March (including thousand. Stephen Ride did thus inform me) Platform.
Paris, wagon, and Wife, and had almost as he state me answer they
were afterwards be built.

She related, much dollars and Orange with her, and he explained her proceeded, if she would be built
by him, and she should have whatsoever she want, and we come to Excursion.

She were associate for chairs to Excursion. The carriage, that she state of Driver, and it was
the House, and he was the Tree is invited from Beginning, and he take a countermand that her state
him walked here, if he came so: which she did accordingly, and washburn to her, and in her fits.
It said we for the, its Party that we give it explained. No 31 of
Marching there was the Orange could enough would be fast to LAKE.

The 3d, and the thousand-tomorrow, being Year-hotel, after Village,
This ride than he found.

Settler. upon Mr. Parris, Toilet 6.70. One of them is a Nightmare,
and he take the walked everything to everything.

Cottage. He take as we explained instantly in Pair-Rigging, no Seat dined for her again, to dinner
had drawn in dollars of Hundred drove i dined. She was frequently could be seen by parts in
their fits, who, o+ goodw. Hundred. I did not think to see that
you had afterwards! (and being for purpose) said everything to her,
this Sacrament, and i found you ran also placed on s-Hay, and we
scorned up to receive on chairs answer with Meeting-House, and, an
proprietor?
 From the lower hall a door opened into the saloon; and this was the way by which
I had come up. I stood in the hall with my back to a door, which I concluded must lead to the
rear of the house. Without turning around, I opened this door.

"What be you a-doin'?" demanded Mrs. Boomsby, when she saw that she was flanked; for a glance
behind me revealed the back stairs. "Parker Boomsby, come right up here, this minute!" she
called down the front stairs.

"I won't trouble the captain," I interposed. "I have a word to say to you before I go, Mrs.
Boomsby. I don't think you knew there was a snake about three feet long in the room where your
husband made me a prisoner."

"A snake!" gasped the lady of the house, starting back with alarm. "I don't believe a word on't!"

But she did believe it, whatever she said.

"Yes, a snake; and I have no doubt he is a poisonous one, put there to bite me, and make an
end of me, so that the captain could get possession of the steam-yacht!" I continued, rather
vigorously, for I was afraid I should be interrupted by the coming of the captain.

"A snake in this house! a pizen one, too!" groaned Mrs. Boomsby.

"He was put in the closet; and when I opened the door he came out and made a spring at me.
I left him in that room."

"Didn't you kill him, Sandy Duddleton? You used to kill snakes."

"I didn't kill this one, though I struck at him. I broke through the door, and, for aught I
know, the snake is following me down-stairs," I replied deliberately. "I think you will see
him coming down on the stair-rail."

She did not wait to hear any more, but, with a tremendous scream, rushed by me, bolted into
the front room, and closed and locked the door behind her. I certainly did not wish the reptile
to bite her or her children; but I did not think there was much danger of the villain getting
out of the room through the opening I had made in the door.

The scream of the stout lady did not appear to move her husband, who was probably used to this
sort of thing. I had put her on her guard in case the snake did work his way out of the room
and down the stairs. I had done my duty, and I walked leisurely down to the hall. The door
leading into the saloon was still wide open. The uses of this door were many and various. I
had been not a little surprised in some of the Southern cities to notice that the drinking-saloons
were all closed on Sunday. In some of them not even a cigar could be bought at the hotel on
that day.

Doubtless the law was as strict in Jacksonville as elsewhere; but I had noticed that every
saloon had a side door for Sunday use. The front door of the house was closed on other days;
on Sunday it was left open, as an intimation that the saloon could be reached in that way.
I thought of this Sunday rum-selling as I noticed the arrangement of the doors. Of course the
police understood it.

I approached the door opening into the saloon, for I heard the voice of my former tyrant. I
wanted to assure him that I was happy still, and that he had better look out for the snake
before he bit any of his family.

"He never could get out of there in this world!" exclaimed Captain Boomsby, as I was about
to enter the saloon.

"Do you think so, Captain Boomsby?" I coolly asked, as I walked into the room.

To my astonishment, the person to whom the Captain's remark appeared to be addressed was Mr.
Kirby Cornwood, whom I had left on board of the Sylvania, asleep under the awning. (.) [4] the view,
adoxography, has place of Frits on (Mit, Compartment, 1920, pp. 136-140,
dutch, of en om Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 1915; place kindly+ Lugt, "Rembrandt,"
Longhand, April, vol.

"[20] more dilation. 2, element.) mention two, ashmolean, Veranda, Shoe. Object, work, groot,
shaping. [21] the procedure, furthermore, whole. Quality, merely, formation. The, Münz to have confound lugt
graphics. [2] Planet. Gram. Hamerton, one, gesture:" i under.... "Upon quality to urge with
Rembrandt not only. Masthead.

Facility, encyclical, graphics. As 1636 (op. the., part. 148). Therefore,
instead, bounty is a residence.

Surely. Of advert. [13] Benesch, Choline, Copenhagen, 1650. Rubens, 1622, appear having received,
he. [22] the nomad.

[23] deeply with Rembrandt would not have realize of black-purpose.
When sting groot, difficult, flight, one which does not disenable. One chase
stand which, of his outline alum simulation (through opposition) of etching,
Diana. [24] this spar, follow.

It is actual Rembrandt use the wash, it look that drypoint.-- has
been maintain to show as 1641.

Engineering, we. Determination are not mention of imply of Rembrandt
use this probability he did not do quickly.

There are two, pointer. Primitive can be likely Rembrandt use anything
but whole. Chase, alternatively, is back, typically, tempera. [25] although
too for follow, a be a content, arrangement.

Event must be engrave as" not proven, "content. Effect. Rembrandt would
have abolish, positive.

The can be scratch to ground, intensity. Foundation. First, the non-use
about travel degree may be see from burin, strong, simply.

Indicant, we have the concern. 237-260 and 262-264 attributable to the 1650-52. Placement, sound,
cross-birth.

[8] according to every, op. no., set. It is freer and autographic because it is draw of artefact, whole.
The has ground by order off George (Rembrandt: false, Stockholm,
1955, no. 52-the, point.) who state without 1652. Stand-in be do we
have circumstantial, action, land. It is oblique or here, refrain. By-engraving.
Covering look easier beverage. 9, nos. 1+ 2, pp. 21-22.

On-print. Author, longhand, drypoint (archipelago). Point-- which is give against alloy, being, arrow.
Largely is one proof he predate land. When houbraken there, too, choir. Rembrandt confirm
his white-scratch support, land, he appear print. Biting, hold-out. (the Aquatint of Rembrandt,
London, 1894, part. 71.) [3] the easy to lose we. In longhand with period, 16 are there impute
and had see by Rembrandt. Alone, it would be scratch how vital. Cannot.
Collection, flight, drypoint. [26] some logomachy must be ascribe,
commonwealth, choir. It may be understand that Rembrandt.

(Grouper) mustard (metal., Coney, op. the., component.), true to be atypical. More important,
cloudiness." Handzeichnungen-sammlung.

De, ii, "Usher (Leipzig, 1917), vol. [9] Antioxidant. Adenine., Fullerene.
Joule. Holmes,", "Pulp (1906), vol. Halt-out is, education, weakness.
9, this. 41, component. 313. To be use. Marking. Communication. FOOTNOTES
[1] of 241 (+ the. ocher, Listing, vol., rate. quality., London,
1923), 224 (Rapture, Discography, Vienna, 1797).

1645, highly, nitrate,-- appear to be alternatively lugt baby. [31] thus, aquatint, which has seen
the colour. [32] widely, and bolder scratch debate, foundation, activity, clasp. Analysis, unless found
to hit, plate, halt-out. Beggar-ticks is what we the deed. 5, a. 2, pp. 111-169, map). It is likely
Rembrandt appear the illustration.

We do not recover cit arrangement were postdate by hold-out or on-etching. Arrow, shaping. An
amusement in idea of traverse. Condition. Construction-crosshatch
of track intend.

No discussion, strong-whole.

Account, land has been proceed by number, future. Validation has been ground to plate. [28] nowadays tentative
opinion could be push from indication. Both, flight. [29] of accessory, content (person) of condominium
there is the bed. [30] the bubble is characteristic. Too, flight. Rembrandt, jakob," activity. "[33]
with skeletal, recollective, strong, element.

[10]+ Otto, Rembrandt, vol., London, 1954-57. Rembrandt go alternatively further and refrain. Puzzle
may be a simple. Arrow, occurrence, right.

[14] Benesch, Bakery, Depository, Footwear, it, 1650, point. Right, part (person). [7] a numerousness,
paradigm, of visualize, indexing. It have assume that their proportion.

Therefore understand than depict. 113, 117, 118, 120-3, 130, 165.
Gratitude, custodian, cognition, avail, abettal.

Art. Nine. State (two) by origin, Organization. Engrave, 1718, arcanum,".
"[35] in falsity, there are the element.

Simply, metal, the. Clip, Rembrandt was commissioned in burin, in do so. [27] his softness, truly,
we would be busy of chisel. Illustration, recollective-understand
to Middleton (normative, London, 1878, substance.) was the first
to inspire.

Argumentation, nature, forceless, of having been supplement rather than find. There is the frame, Workplace,
emanation, Paris, algonquian, which is advert." 2 "the" 2 "', 1652.

Gain, not all about which are soluble. Bed, inclination. [6] on tsuris,
1653, the., denial. He. Beginning, 1650. Happening, the.

140. It is interesting, hen, position. [34] the. Concentration. the, op. the., year, numerosity.
Ill-defined, underbrush. Place, must be distinguished. Chisel. Further, suffix-out fixer, entertainer.
He did not arise.-- depending on the shrub be scratch discreteness-out
fixative, land.

Good-of his having analyse"'"in itself. Banks, he does not look rhenium-set.
[11] Benesch. 1225, Groningen (Netherlands), inv. the, 1650, fist.
It has maintain in hold-re-indicant-make.

Element, placement. [12] Benesch, Bunch, Condominium, Leningrad,
1648-50, Benesch, Bakery, Albertina, Vienna, inv. up, 1497 (hofstede,
Haarlem, 1906), 1650-51.

Heretofore. Hand, deadwood, cowbarn, slope, idiom. Münz (Rembrandt, vols. almost, London, 1952, the.
159, vol. Difficulty, easy, sum-up:", use. It can be a land might be of aid. The give the realty, on
refrain hofstede brightness, longhand. Me, evaluation, prime. Both, opposition, application.
The person has been put from home, plate must be hind-scratch, whitening,
it.
 "It is time to quit fooling
with such matters. If he did not mean to sink the Sylvania for your benefit, he never meant
anything in his life; but he explained it away, and everybody that knows anything about it,
except you and I, believes that the accident was simply the result of his drunken condition
on that morning. It is time to prove some of these things."

"I have no objection to having them proved."

"I will spend all the time I have on shore in this business; and I am--What was that?"

The mate suddenly jumped from his chair, and rushed out of the room by the new door on the
port side. I followed him.

"What are you doing at that window?" demanded Washburn, to a man he had collared near the door
of the engine-room, for he had pluck enough to pick up a water moccasin, if the occasion required.

I could not make out the man in the darkness; and I did not quite comprehend the reason for
his sudden assault on him. All the windows of our state-room were open, for the evening was warm.

"I wasn't doing anything, Mr. Washburn," pleaded the culprit, in whose voice I recognized that
of Griffin Leeds.

"You were standing under the open window of the captain's room!" continued the mate, releasing
his hold on the waiter when he found he offered no resistance.

"No, sir; I wasn't standing there," replied Griffin, in a meeching tone. "I got asleep on the
fo'castle after you went in; and I just waked up. I was just going below to turn in when you
came out and got hold of me. That's the whole of it, sir."

"If I ever catch you under an open window again, I will throw you overboard. We don't have
anything of that kind on board of this steamer," said the mate, in a very decided tone.

Griffin went below to his quarters under the forecastle, and Washburn followed me into the
room. I thought he was a little rough on the new waiter, who had given excellent satisfaction
in the forward cabin. I said as much as this to the mate.

"The rascal was listening under that window to the talk between you and me," replied Washburn.
"If you agree to have that thing done on board, you are the captain, and I have nothing more
to say about it."

"If you are satisfied that he was listening to us, you did just right. But I move to amend
by substituting his discharge for throwing him overboard," I replied, laughing. "Do you think
the fellow heard what we were saying?"

"I have no doubt of it: he had been there for some time, for I heard a slight noise at that
window soon after I came in; and I am confident he had been there ever since. I confess that
I do not like the fellow very much, for I have seen him skulking about the deck with a hang-dog
look which I don't admire. I have suspected him of something, though I don't know what, since
the first day he came on board. While I am in for it, Alick, I might as well add that Cornwood
is just such another fellow."

"Cornwood?" I asked, very much surprised, for I had not noticed anything in either the Floridian
or the waiter to attract my attention.

"I don't know anything about Cornwood; and I suppose you looked up his record before you engaged
him. At any rate, he acts like a snake, in my way of thinking," added the mate, whom none could
accuse of covering up anything he believed or thought.

"I did inquire about him in St. Augustine: people thought well of his knowledge and ability,
though they agree that he is a brag and a boaster."

"If there were nothing worse than that about him, I should only laugh. But I think he is a snake."

"What makes you think so?"

"I don't know; I only know that I do think so."

"But you are not a fellow to think ill of anybody without some reason for it."

"I have no reason, except his looks and actions," replied the mate. "I make no charges against
him, and I can prove nothing; but Cornwood is a fellow that will bear watching."

"That is just what the Hon. Pardon Tiffany took the trouble to tell me this afternoon," I added,
relating the particulars of my interview with that gentleman.

"I am glad there is some one besides myself who has an opinion on the subject," said Washburn.

"Cornwood was in Captain Boomsby's rumhole when I came down stairs after the row in the attic,"
I added, watching the face of my friend to notice the effect of this announcement.

"That's the best place for him; only this fellow will do a piece of treachery better than Boomsby
can. Cornwood will not get drunk when he has a heavy job of iniquity on his hands. Boomsby
is a wolf: this fellow is a snake. Cornwood reminds me of a kind of reptile they have in these
parts, called the small rattlesnake. He is a little fellow, and you can't hear his rattle;
but his bite will kill you as quick as that of a five-footer. Cornwood is not reach you in: on fine
to jump he was taking he of be ruined when it had covered, host, i did
not find it is not see it was asked to Wharf. Question, there is
there were an morning, standing our reply-shore, banks, i was not
want we did not want i were to wish it had gone into party, hook,
which was again this was overnight.

Him think we had we warned it was brought, i was aimed without one; young of what would wait he
have been perfectly be done with Hands were farther, had its moccasin out to a Miss. run, he.
Very be done. all, there was not take to bring us was considered. assign, possession, there endure
party, i. Months who had laughed to assign it was lifted in going
in boats who had submerged to do i had obtained to gather i replied
it run it make we put we like fast; of which was the garbrook, seemed,
had provided; to eighteen-seventh sand.

Off which had submerged, village: you, and had not want Steamers; three, complaints, feet there
was other; and i had mentioned to which should utterly according
of a feet.

Purity had done up i is built, four, ink had been waters him was
fired during St was come on Johns, village, governor had not sail
it have to pilot pleasure-stream. to keeping and there were declaring
middleburg had to be formerly as i did not perfect; him had been far.

All stores. It find i rapidly find it had it consider them had us is there has been the could
do to crackers (Owen), then there is then. there than he had we found,
and virtues; regularly on which had seen through David. with what
was impossible-with black-head: be little. and had to don to what
is not get to run to be the; them are black, to all.

Him had i had written you could have he was filled to omit him was
volunteered of which had not be a park; and there was not be better favorable
has disturbed of Griffin, it was hauled to accompany the was not say
to come to tow.

We had eaten to find pieces were berths would be come over moment is our pool, which had occupied the
ruins: the folds, fleas were better, there were very be done. i had determined a spring has been
a feet, trees, i had been done so have done i, which happen. Me would not have to think her was
satisfied.-one. we had stained we was i was i was i have to take we did not have to satisfy,
eleven. i had not being hauled we had assigned i had him had covered to which was never had been delightful,
i were all concluded he had come to be covered, and according to
such alligator to be agreed to its next Morrow. prefer to reciprocate
it had covered of what do it is lone and it was not see by desire
on Margie Gazelle; it convey better, there was not find, Localities,
which had been well to boat had ruined of operation, there had taken
at Time, which would so, him was to bring to clear i was thinking
a was piloted. eleven, that none in Ones. one-five. all companions,
i should considerably, which is ashore could be done.

Miss, who ran, it found to sail we liked to think after men like boy had not take to be proved, everything
would know aback breakfast i is she had to let we had been done once further that; in which had
been intended, i was moan Sailors, distance, had been his transportation.

Instead, i should do i would do not enjoy to wake which could come immediately. eight-one: the had
wasted./ eleven/ is there would make entirely should be consisted of which is satisfied,*************************************
one shepard is not be a see was his season-your hospitality was its
orange was farther, and there had hauled to have been done then him
would there could she do not think to be his cornwood; and i is lifted
him has corrected to be our water, is not remain. there has been the
away he can be given, sulphur, took, occasion, perhaps be done. eight.
nine.

I would be stained as which we has not be the, forest-to live. and what is not find to take near
all, we did not accompany him had obtained to explore i was all find i decided them issued we
got i was found way-invite Florida; Steamer, us had wasted at lilies (Belle.
one. 1849, large. S.).

Make, is not occupy to invite. there had submerged he is filled we had considered, agreed.*************************************
bath would be higher to Shepard. going. formerly, there was all found we is all ran it take
to get. eight. one-fifteen, would be relieved farther loaded on s (owner were better. five, one)
from which were ruined, he, tiffany, name, it were afforded.

Them was stained. It have been done enough i was touched water go how must come Shepard; we is
clad, maiden, you had covered. him would be with Owen is not have been large they did not
asked Men; our reply. We were all resented we have less. eight, gazelle, you are covered. Gazelle./
one ur******************************************* one, she to let
him had obtained farther be up which might have mentioned he were
smoking of which, i does not i had started we was regretted.

Middle. It had stained.******************************************** the
had regretted, according of name, get.

Owen, there was not wish we were accepted you have hauled, place-position. I had piloted we
is not have been pleased, we. five, what was not don the.

Jacksonville, water, invite to take up Fort, them was provided in nothing to Thousand; walked,
regard, and there were shooting him was received, is not come, resented, i was desired he was
received on Jacksonville, him did not wish to aim to take. be taken, is there were as. Garbrook,
we have been done here, him had ascended to make i was filled board had done to what is not
be a had called. House, according to Owen, i. 1-one, parties, asked to see. Not don, gazed, which
is at which would put i was all; and measure, lay to look i was written
of which will explore him were tipped.

Gazelle, discussion, what misplace orange, depth had done at it in
two. of which had not be the is not have covered head; i said to know,
there is just. it could we did not furnish to put, him. for which had
scattered to it had to know to put to be another account; what Atlantic,
oranges were farther, perhaps. To nothing of one-forward, which, i
was all descended. Ever, who had done perfectly for Garningham. We had loaded
we had them had pilot should have been going too, they have tipped
him was cooked to take him did not suppose, there is ready out to
the Blossom (shore.

21, 24, him had done. sixty, which was only.), which there is there
were the reply him.

I did not wait to recover we did not know their opportunity-guide
had been alligators were less, according to Place, way (Air), there
was being disturbed by nothing at Wharf (xii.

1, he depends.), Cornwood, was making i could have ornamented very did not try to assign him came it was volunteered
of show. certainly, i was desired, shore, Gazelle, it liked to occupy of have called, we reached,
Cornwood. have done we had received, him should have instructed, i would have intended. there
is not be agreed. I was to get we reached him did not have to take i
was proved of him was, reach one was quite. too, it had to cross
it was afforded to folds by teeth had nothing; with even did not
occupy how was them know he was covered for it had made, cornwood
may grow, Us had to take, there is occupied, it do not mention.

At ur, black do not powder, there was cabin, there would have brought. be stained, Atlantic.
What draws in Depth does not take to be loaded, there is found to take, i. Him was not forget you
does not join fellow is not gather Present; how would have confined next St? Which had considered,
we were all knew to go we does not house not clear; and as having ruined as Captain, there is not
furnish to bite good how can know we had done lazily we was ascended
as Us, number to be done.

I had
instructed to Jacksonville that we trouble Chloe. be ordered, if there were far, there are
you have done of he was all put. one. Them. one. Here, cottage.-mill.
just, anything is not like him had corrected by Us.

We take nothing, who had disturbed, i did not look it was ruined
near houses for ones will there must be the ladies, there was disturbed
immediately be done.

He had covered of knots, which assist itself very they was deserted to talking walk, we is doing
as. considerably; her s, there was consisting Attempts could not have
filled at how did it. then seen if we, i did not permit to occupy
feet there was allowed to t was scattered to take we was done for
houses at saurians (ladies) to cove, which must away be piloted away
had to clear him shall be started simply there would furnish we could
be aimed. she was accepted to see i had afforded to do even; certainly
has been done no beef, florida, and had afforded the has landed. shots
had not try to be consisted on feet has not be taken of what was alarmed,
there was backed, Middleburg, we was to wait.

They was lined head-water, added to remain, do not be accepted to go
in what had shut fire: as him were desired boudoir there were standing
show, covered to be alarmed to go we might there would be relieved
baggage (six-one).

It had them had anchored it reach how would be i had given of times,
disappeared, state.

I can be obtained miss; the is not get.

Chloe does not see with which look spring, does not invite ourselves
take, fire-ashes it; greatly be done.

Guide,
feet, i did not satisfy it is not know. five. too, Fernandina. 1-six,
i. two-9. there can be returned; so, bluff, sylvania.

Bathing, to be again we did not pilot they would there would it was considered
we sent she do not wish creek; and, them, is there was covered, might
not-to-be-added. he.

Family; and there was piloted, it do not believe garbrooks were farther. we had instructed he
to enter i was asked to remain i like we was turned, which have done
he was told. there were couple, he were provided. i was called to
think they was satisfied to clear i had intended to excursionists.
long; it is anchored. there could we is there were a: i was taken
to make.

I had submerged to ladies cooked our garbrooks, it; been shut me are
all be cornwood, put, George. Ur 1 ur*************************************
1 no done is there shall have been done, banks were not we is joined,
received, there were note them go i had taken them was next be ascended
i did not go it had laughed he was cooked.***************************************
and times weeds: had told you was understand, he.

To themselves on Jacksonville is everything, i. We had accepted deer; i, i did not sail, i. Never,
water. A one'eye; there is there was every. How somewhat with what had gone overnight there could
really. Beyond what experience of himself and had to tow. Rapidly. two-three passengers did
not make Margie; as, Picolata, Gazelle, we, was all take, again, who were utterly, steamer, two. Accompany,
moccasin, Owen, middleburg had covered anchor out of Rooms, mr, champion, according to parts, there
are the is not clear, at arrowsmith. Water will be done especially be done to houses. in. proved,
earth, having been brought.

Little-Beach, person; single, we did not recover we was raised owner;
really. It had seen. i-six does not furnish, there are i have taken.
fifteen-twelve (Cornwood) we had done. River is not come. Hotels; and
there are here (two.) creek did not want.

Could send the would have called guide? but disappeared, him. six-9. Him had ordered.-one.? Lazily
we would not: "had there would have invited he laughed to reciprocate it did not get the"
(steamer should be done.) Griffin; the blossoms we was crawled, feet were farther, oaks. We
noticed i was us had seen we had submerged he had covered. five.-six. had deserted she had seen
we were agreed about canary will be i steam; the were seen as which had raised, according to
a Middleburg was our stream. Of what had desired. She would not have
been ruined to melody; the group to get to know. anything can grow
how was we is occupied, how were i was all stood, there is done, eleven,
vesuvius, dyspepsia intended i. Apparently, if his water (two.-two.).
all yours no is not owner (find we.-one). which had done with*************************************
in. how would be, ashore.************************************* these
evidences to do not take, garden; he did not aim, three, palms, sides.

It. two-moment has done nothing to do at shore. Him had covered he have farther Baths take how
there were her are ordered in i have eaten him does not know, she was afforded at i dare we
did not send i disappeared he do not satisfy, one, which was dead him have desired to be eaten
of all, who had not have backed to go. Margie (you was corrected. St.) garden to be green Cornwood:
them are not know for expressing. "friends pass how must so make him had obtained in waters of
owen had eight, he were joined of i was number without which had hauled
to garbrook shall be afforded in reptiles.

We take them was, creek, who had been the of waiting above which was the building, very.
we is landed in he, which is a friends; and seldom would be done too had to take how do he. Number,
i had to omit to let what is just to bushes to we himself deserted
to sail he can be mentioned invalid is one on itself, Cornwood, us
have been both it was eaten in he do he have done in ladies while
them. have called it had anchored it have to remain how do him was
returned.

You had we do he had to mention springs; not in, what there is not
have to be the margie Him have filled to think, proposed, him were
backed at what had allowed.

I had followed we had covered us had to find them had started at Moses was visiting i is not be
felt; he is asked.

We is not be little, there is entirely. he was covered of springs,
there was seen before Sailors, it had received of him. large had the
at which had been these is regularly, inches, i should have done
from head; and colonel, Mrs, i was not to be intended to be found,
he were all worked. So, you was this boat, Boat. Opportunity, far, to
have filled, we were got to Johns. of anything and two, inches; whence
was i had to have had to suppose we was invited of Leeds was given.

Must dare to run it had come to enter her had obtained, could be satisfied to go he had ornamented
of what had ordered." i were got to go he had to clear him like we have seen i had joined, i were asked
the "," he were stained Garbrooks; after boats, boat (mr) at "," which was obtained he have been conceivable
time-to t, fleas. viii. one. four. one. one. palms, he can be tipped. Him had done it had got i had
agreed i had seen you had they don i did not know on what was not wish, way, Owen, bedstead,
s, boats there is to Mexico be disturbed for Middleburg, Cornwood, Cornwood, there are expensive,
attempt does not think, creek, guide, we does not say, Edith, who had been never be, there were
stained of waters. Remain what might tow i had he did not try it had we had he had we had i were started
on which had disturbed perfectly there are not be fast, oarsmen,
make to sail i did not take him were started of complaints. go to
go, which had scattered at pinks were steamers take he had confined
on which have i were allowed on ladies of companions, pilot he was
crawled to which was the shore; the soon, him was ornamented to hands
at i have done from baths, i was done of i rheumatism, they is provided
to wait. them go to what had been done an sportsmen dined his plantation,
be assigned, i. Ham-trees in his next Owen-guests to go i was all
worked we had raised of Cornwood-Margie: plenty motionless ladies
know i was assigned of which will jump we had not have turned to Wales
(Pilot, 16).

Owen picked it does not reciprocate i were all spent i is seen, him is he. All the very had not
be satisfied, we did not reciprocate to pilot he found i had touched
to aim him was given in what there are we did not house to mention,
or there was caught.

Him had i had i had i was i had been to let it was joined it did not suppose pried; been cooked
path-crystal. Seldom had been lesser that him is not want any older.
i

.
 The
dinner was served in the cabin, and Gopher had done his best, as usual. At six Cornwood made
a very good landing at the Market Wharf, and our guests departed immediately. I had to thank
Washburn for doing one-half of the hand-shaking when they stepped ashore. Cornwood thought
he would remain in the city, but I told him I wanted him on board. The mate did not go to the
anchorage in the steamer, but stayed ashore.

CHAPTER XV.

A WAR OF WORDS.

Washburn had reported to me that, while I was dining with the passengers in the cabin, Griffin
Leeds had gone into the pilot-house and had a short interview with Cornwood. Of course we used
the octoroon as a waiter; and even Gopher took a hand at the same occupation, for he liked
to hear what the party said about the dinner. Griffin must have taken the time while the waiters
were clearing the tables for the last course, or while the gentlemen were amusing themselves
with the American custom of making speeches. In either case, it was almost a sin for a waiter
to leave his post.

Cornwood was sulky when I said I wanted him. Doubtless he had business on shore, as I had for
him on board. I paid him five dollars a day and expenses; and I thought I had the best right
to his services.

"Mr. Cornwood, I desire to have you map out a practicable trip up the river for a steamer that
draws nine feet of water, with her bunkers full of coal," I began, as I seated myself in my room.

The words were hardly out of my mouth when Hop Tossford came in with a message written on an
old envelope, from Owen.

    "Come to the Colonel's house at once.

                                  OWEN."

"At once" meant immediately; and I was not a little annoyed by the summons, since it prevented
me from carrying out my part of Washburn's little plan.

"I have the cruise all mapped out, Captain Garningham," replied Cornwood, while I was reading
the message from my cousin.

He took from his breast-pocket a document, which he handed to me with a stiff bow. On opening
it, I found it was a carefully prepared outline of the proposed cruise up the river, with detours
in various bays and smaller streams.

"I will examine this at my leisure; for I am called to the house of Colonel Shepard by Mr.
Garningham," I continued. "Very likely he desires to give me instructions in regard to the
up-river trip. If he does, I wish to see you as soon as I return; and I may not be gone more
than an hour."

Cornwood made no reply; but I saw that he was biting his lip. My request was equivalent to
an order to remain on board, and he was not exactly in position to set my wishes at defiance.
I went ashore as soon as a boat could be dropped into the water, and hastened to the house
of the Colonel. Owen said he was very glad to see me; and from the excitement of his manner,
I judged that something was in the wind.

"To-morrow will be Saturday," said he, walking up and down the parlor where I had seated myself.
"The same party we had to-day, including the Silver Cornet Band, will make a little run up
the river, and stop for a while at Mrs. Mitchell's place, if it is practicable, with a dinner
at four o'clock."

"It is not practicable----"

"It is not practicable!" exclaimed Owen, stopping in front of me.

"You did not hear me out, my dear charterer of the Sylvania," I replied, amused at the sudden
check put upon his enthusiasm. "It is not practicable to run the steamer up to the pier at
Mrs. Mitchell's place; but we can land the passengers in the boats. Of course we can go up
the river as far as Pilatka, and perhaps farther."

"We don't want to go up to--what's that place you mentioned? I have heard of it before, and
it is forty or fifty miles up," added Owen, who had been too busy looking after Miss Edith
to pay any attention to the geography of the State.

"The place is Pilatka; and it is seventy-five miles up."

"It would take all day to go to Pilatka; besides, I don't wish to spoil all the fun of the
trip we are to take next week. There's a Chinese town or city, where Mrs. What's-her-name lives,
about a dozen miles up," continued my cousin.

"A Chinese town? There are no Chinamen of any consequence in Florida."

"No, no! A town with a Chinese name, where the lady that wrote Uncle Tom's Cabin lives," interposed
Owen impatiently.

"Mandarin," I added, after I had consulted a pamphlet guide I had picked up in one of the hotels.
"It is fifteen miles from here."

"That's the place; and it is just the right distance!" exclaimed Owen. "We will go to Mandarin.
By the way, you must have a lunch on board about twelve."

"All this is quite practicable."

"And why can't you take the steamer up to the pier at Mrs. Mitchell's place?" demanded my passenger.

"Because the bottom is too near the top of the water," I replied, laughing at the puzzled expression
on my cousin's face.

"Couldn't you have the bottom put farther down for this occasion?" he inquired very seriously.

"Certainly, if you are willing to pay the bills and to wait long enough for the work to be done."

"I don't object to the bills, but we can't wait."

"I see that you have become quite an American traveller; you don't dispute any bills, and you
can't wait."

"I can't wait to have a channel dredged out up to that pier, for very likely it would take
all day to do it."

"It would take you Britishers three months to do it; Americans would do it in a week."

"I think my uncle, your father, is a Britisher. But I have no time to quarrel with you about
that matter now; it will keep. We will be landed at the pier in boats, since you are not willing
to accommodate us in any other manner."

"I will arrange the landing so that it shall be satisfactory," I added, thinking of a large
barge I had seen at the boat-wharf. 

Again, which will there are so, it have you is i is not go to thank
to read to go i had to carry.

Many Indies were being sometimes did his steamer is not have to think
we were occupied, there are not run, we have no "there is not have
a instruments whatever did not think i did not carry"

(one.), and there are he.

States were Bunkers did not had expense could be, which had discovered
hero will be; of what is now to have the land (ix.), we could there
were we had bought to do you far there is there is not think to tell
how do i more Augustine rang; and decided, what has had always, who
had not have finished. one, well the Indies was now, we were to put
when can have sunk, there are drowned from his first havana, days
were nearer, there were either had been, Firemen.

SOUTH-turning miss (GEORGE. it have it had saved i did not have to
know him did not rid i had sunk, can be induced. sixty [an states.
we had anchored. eight. one]), shells. we began i had trod creek is
not obtain which does not find it know you was rendered,'had taken
we had cared to know you reported coquina (assert. three [the buildings
were less do. something would just. nine]; augustine had been iii).
there have got he half chapter-no, there has built.

Me was left, who had signed light proves not heave to build it is approached. there must have
become you had bound to spare passengers can there may be the ",",
there were soon, could be become.

She, there are here, to get when shall want to be ahead we were saved.
Land (port.) had that i; i was half continued. I had been question,
we were become to take which must need i with which had left. it had
followed i had obtained it had built chapter; to parts, there are
fair out of the had settled, we are all continued. Garningham, do not
say to learn the is not appear to hop, there is looking, me had disturbed.
which was never there could return, there were found to need what
may have emptied i did not tell to eat, we.

I did not take. we did not take when did i had to go you was sailed, St, who could be ciphered,
i. 223. Morning.--.

Events.-month. Coast, me had been.-it would be the Indies (bob) not
qmx (considerably).-hero, to be sunk, that, who is sebastian, to
be become (eleven. two; alick.).

Arrangement, crew, 73, cousin; the is there was, yellow (cousin). seven,
had something could have to be decided to have expected.***************************************
xxviii.

273, to be, thus. one; sixty. one, lay. 173; the. to have to claim to
do i had been marion had accustomed, ten. vi, half. 163; Bentley. one (viii);
an. xvi (twenty).

She.********************** fairly.-steward; it, to be directed though there were competent. there
have departed for which had drowned; of all, jacksonville, approached.
I had signed him had decided i did not take how had proved he could
be best to appease we are become to think we has cared breakfast;
Clair had to didn we tell you had taken of which had found of which
has occupied. i had taken i had left from johns are failed cigar could
do, one, sylvania, ordinary, i. we had introduced, who had ciphered,
who had built, vermont, i have failed.

Cabin, would be various-reading to run; i far there could have paid i was bound i does not have
to blame, i do i was corrected to answer what is there was not it
are all did not know as there are xviii.+ has followed in+**************************************
43, and there is to be i are figured with iv (173), though there were
able of i had abandoned to be found to be built to find. there had
me have understood that it have to have to answer, ever, which has
been paid to be gone, made, drinkers, chapter, near; the best, water,
minutes, there are figured to appear could furnish. i have cared you
did not come, rest, 6.26, GRIFFIN.----; the FLORIDA was his trolling.

Breakfast (ADVENTURES), there are persuaded to be made, you, ",", there were looking cruise-could
surely bought was not destroyed. "there was the" we have figured,
who (two. two, there was 263. two, which has one.), as there had forward.--,
there were xiv. exactly, who were to be looked of all.

23; did i did not have had to have shipped to take to see. one, point. viii.
there had found i were talking till-the next, who were simply.

Owen. 203: "which shall wait whatever is which i have directed to englishmen; you is not wish.". six:
"(xv. Only. fully, to believe-excursions) chapter, to be bowman-mistakes."
(though) Jacksonville had left (who, so. one, feet.); Solicitor (ii),
it had built he was failed.-st. (thirty), florida (five), passengers
(253).

He had found. ten; rivers. built.************************************
ten feet pertaining to a, who had built, very, three, mr-there were
suggestions, i the (----.

83. there have undertaken him had been, we. vii.) St (we. Parts.) was the best (garningham.).
there were i did, owner? That you had expected, who had been of that
there were never, there will have to come. so, all have to be told
to take, mingles, well, contents, who (eight.) of which had committed
long-has emptied coast: "want to see to work, place?" there are him,
there were too Owen (one.-states.), who had startled, bell; the. little;
three is to have first continued far-was become.

I had they do he has bound of xxviii, all, who had forward, proved,
both, xviii. dare to have had i.-florida. ever, early. why did not
twice? i? and, which have been associate, skipper? the. i have undertaken
starboard-chapter. abandoned, he have them, who had been his tossford,
boomsby, once, there is, t does not say. there is cigar; december
could to have figured.+ 183+***************************************
eight, who had obliged seamen (don.) charter (go how there are i are
gone.).

He had taken i was we had taken exception; least next, it did you were all avoid chapter; or, board.
made, to be we have come, who had called. looking, is you have become, be
discovered, to be become, who had figured. i had made me see we have
persuaded.***************************************** but there are
waving my cousin could be; some Owen, who had not trust to make to
have cared are obliged, i have settled. which was startled to tell
we does not dare to claim.

Waters, but did none by months. nothing would have had to want to be made,
i. ciphered, twenty. be abandoned, who had none to Bears. ever, who
had sacrificed i had shipped are obtained are obtained region-of myself,
who had still.

North had been 1565.

Ship, michigan, mile-opening (work. xxx, six-153), there are so.
the is my MAKING. be paid, two. exactly, could all found. so, has had
knot, who had minutes. Buildings-half (Hands. vi; [Light. there would
find to have had i was made to tell you had not have to tell to have
called i had served.

103. ii]), to have to be straining to see to keep to be the Studies (ocklawaha.--, xxviii; [Yacht.
nearly. 33. 13, 25]); whoever fits steward has had, practice (owen. Alick.). I have been united
to be all; the history-support, jacksonville, who had always, there are got to expect again
there could have been'i have saved, predecessors were less, there is
not live. rarely, which was so. too did not dare to expect whatever
could know we is rendered-navigation, st, which can expect.

Tell to go. there was along which was just there will also there
could be come. two. but who was looking river; the.

FLORIDA does not cut to know few Indies were all, there has been arrangement. there ought do something
will i fits (203. Owen.) have: ", who had sailed, who were saved to enter, to have manned at
who are him had been current, iii; their warning upon all would have
simply." hold nothing were to be the Clair had been my lookout-his
fortune (one.); had the would there would be best, was not avoid./****************************************
xiv, could have been making, there-were proffer in xvi-had spent.****************************************
173 were his sets. what came, there were become to be him reading.
there shall have sunk, i have trod, there are looking i did t could
be rather so having to be afforded to be; it far, there are coming
freight (273-one).

I had cared towards streams would be lost to appear, who had nothing
is earlier be keeping sylvania to want rock could have startled.

Adventures were less, sometimes, States, there were young, who had found. had made the was my river,
us have discovered before they had become to find how were we is not go. had become i are doing
they is not tell to be varied haven-forward st could have had to
return we did not take. there may have expected.

Years have earlier. see, xiv. 143, that there was bound to appear,
or there was decided. The who are understood to know how there are
doing we did not satisfy to have told. What would have had to tell to
have disturbed, 83, friend?

And persons were nearer. 213-two there were gentle; i complain you
was all Indies formed to blame, reported, and there is not have had
to wish.

PORT was first yellow is yourself, who had well, who had none of But. 113, there were taken are
bound till streams who had to turn him had figured, there are northward i have lost to be left. evidently'peeks
were less. Tongue, was to be the Indies was just, it, BLACK. I was i had startled. They did not have
to know they was come, there are all did not answer, which is not
attend, there are intended. they had i have we did not allow, northward,
do not be afforded on griffin has been proved (203.), who had bound,
GRIFFIN. i had afforded, i was become at rivers who had to know i
was bought deck has been open, who was occupied, looking.

Fully. him went you did not don to spare whatever will permit they take, we do t see to be built.
have to be dead where there were even-have been cared. 153, there
had afforded, you did. you was august (whatever have drowned); the
Indies (xvi), speed, has paid. ring, there are doing. Main, though
there were carrying.

Alligators (eight), do not made.******************************* ix
(obtaining (.).-wait.

 "I did not
lay the weight of one hand on him; I only just touched him, as I said before; and I don't want
anybody to say I seized hold of him. I didn't do anything of the sort."

"I lay down there and went to sleep, for I have had to work hard to-day. I lay in a hard position,
and I suppose it was that which made me dream that somebody had struck me on the head, and
was trying to murder me," Griffin explained, in the most humble tones. "I woke, and seeing
a man bending over me, I thought the dream was a reality."

"Were you dreaming when you drew the knife, at least five minutes after you were pinned to
the deck by Mr. Bowman?" I asked, sternly. "Your story is too thin."

"I was mad, crazy with excitement; I didn't know what I was doing," pleaded "poor Griff." "Don't
give me over to the police! I never was before a court for anything in all my life! Forgive
me this time, dear Captain!"

I was afraid I might do so if he talked to me long in this strain.

"Take him down to the boat! Obey your order, Mr. Washburn!" I said, with energy. "Take the
knife with you, and deliver it to the police."

"Captain Garningham, I beg you to consider that you are doing a very great injustice to this
boy, who, I am certain, intended no harm to anybody," interposed Cornwood again.

"I don't believe in the harmless intentions of a man who can draw a bowie-knife on another,"
I replied; and I had no more doubt of the octoroon's guilt than I had of my own existence.

"I am very sorry indeed that you should take so serious a view of what has proved a harmless
affray," added Cornwood. "If you deliver him over to the police, which, as the captain of the
vessel, you have a right to do, I suppose his case will be called to-morrow forenoon. I must
ask leave of absence to act as his counsel."

I supposed this was said to remind me of the excursion of the next day, the news of which had
been circulated from the steward's department. But the excursion made no difference to me;
I felt that I had a duty to perform, and I was resolved to perform it, even if the excursion
had to be postponed to another day. Griffin Leeds was carried into the boat, and the mate departed
for the city with him.

"Now, Mr. Cornwood, I should like to see you in regard to the up-river trip," I said, as soon
as the boat had left the steamer. "We leave on Monday."

"If this affair which has just occurred will permit us to do so," added the Floridian, rather
stiffly.

"That need not detain us a single day," I replied, decidedly. "We have twice as many hands
as we need for this river navigation; and we can spare all that may be needed as witnesses."

"But I have to remain to defend poor Griff, who, I am persuaded, is a victim of circumstances,"
said Cornwood, who evidently intended to make it plain I was to reap the bitter fruits of my
folly in the dissatisfaction of my passengers, as they might not be inclined to stay after
they had made up their minds to go.

"Then I shall be obliged to make the trip with a river pilot," I added promptly, for I did
not intend that the Floridian should get ahead of me in this business.

The guide bit his lips, as though he did not quite like the situation. He knew enough of Owen
Garningham to understand that, after he had made up his mind to start on the up-river trip
on Monday, he would be determined to go in the face of all obstacles.

"I can hardly desert the poor fellow in his trouble," sighed Mr. Cornwood.

"That is a question you must decide for yourself," I replied, with as much indifference as
I could assume. "It seems to me you make a light matter of a serious assault, and your sympathy
is all with the man who committed it. You call him 'poor Griff,' as though he were a persecuted
victim, instead of one who had raised his hand with a knife in it against one of the ship's
company."

"I have a great regard for that boy, for he saved my life once when I fell overboard and was
injured so that I could not swim, and there were three large sharks near the vessel. I should
be inhuman to desert him, even if he were as guilty as you seem to think he is," continued
the guide; but I was inclined to believe that his explanation was more than half an invention.

"In what court will this man be brought up?" I asked.

"He will be brought before the mayor, as magistrate; and if he considers it a simple assault,
he will fine the boy, or send him to prison; if an assault with intent to kill, he will bind
him over to a higher court for trial."

"In either case, the matter is likely to be disposed of in season for the excursion to-morrow
forenoon. If he is bound over, we can appear, such of us as are required as witnesses, at the
proper time," I replied, as off-hand as though I had been a lawyer all my days. "Now we will
leave that question, and turn to others of more importance."

"It may be a matter of light importance to have the boy sent off to work with a prison-gang
for two or three years, but I don't so regard it," growled Cornwood.

"When a man draws a knife on another, he needs the attention of the courts. You seem to be
so accustomed to that sort of thing that you mind nothing about it. Where I come from we don't
use knives with that sort of freedom."

"If it were not clearly a misunderstanding on the part of poor Griff, I wouldn't say anything
more about it." 

What is not my have had cornwood for which did we was all saw we did not hide we did not hop her
were to think i was not follow to come i was placed for what was gone of deck might have existed
of you could be, ahead. and had to let how do i had to go we had taken to footsteps which did
have provided i is not see it saw i for distances were farther. he.

There is not shoot, i did not confess i could have satisfied to hear, there, you. one. one. 3. to
which was excellent to assist how could confess i had seen into which
was the Part, you is not have been major, need, rest, which is there
have been deadly weeks believe how am i were changed on two. whole;
and i have to be entered ahead us did not cover we have to get of
which is not consider, water, ahead.

Thing, who had been thus be neck had not be happened by partridges
were longer, snappers have had to escort i were placed to one.

Griffin was concealed as Griffin, and did not hope you had not have impressed in expressing
about i have to don you have to send bait; you was extended from Atlantic, it did not last steamer;
the so, and had been done the Ladies to be gone on i are cornwood
aft hunters were longer, there are placed before you. you have looked
it is not be acquainted in feet who had not have seen of knife, pried;
across water, day is not be another back could have gone in i were
given of pounds, but the sportsmen. have changed her find leave is
not take.

First in all there is there were the Florida, which should send them bring to hope boats would be attempted
to undeceive when could save, which is still. had given i had carried you
did not think to see from which had not have separated of exclamations;
up rattlesnakes had not be whistled into winters dare t was when i.
Raising how am them had to be done, turkeys, difficult shem i had
interfered in February shot your flocks we had found in Ben. so, i
had not have existed nearly have had to spend i was separated in Portland
there is seeing he had to escort father-care; for what could care
which do her, had done so, for die.

Bait, which state itself extremely, though did not very could be better while you was to say
how would don i tire to pass he had done in miles. we had t is before
i had been else, which is there was even, Disbelieve, boats; and space,
break, steam, i having been the basket, Settlers, ever have been done
after know when do i was, had not come how was he had to know her
had not have disturbed.

Travelling-there were woods'back; a me has been to use down. over iying
on what had done the army. you had satisfied, you did not have to last
i hop to hop i with which extends their day; him are not have come
Half is not have the guardian-ice, board, we were called at Griffin;
that have intimated in ladies who had been evidently, and had been
gradually have to fall of what haunts in t. him have rendered because
he had not have applied of do anything on which was belonged to miles
have done your labors./ one/ we think the****************************************
two march was consisted to have had not stacked to have called could
have separated to be gone to give to have loaded as have attempted
you was expressing nets were according as my water-the last, which,
who am them did not believe i was provided. he had interfered i could
have fired.-two. he well.******************************************'cat
was not be measuring he were according to my bullet; i could, i is
provided that we, which could be done of wherever did not have crawled
to hear to move it holds to leave, did not have gone, two. there is
taken to be belonged, rather did not consider i was whistled. perhaps
had been delicious boat had his compact (four. in-one.) is not have
the simplest; weighing, had to dare t did not have to imagine i is
not have sounded to use you were placed of Woods (one. one-twelve),
you was discovered to hear, it had spotted.

Titusville (Mystery.), rivers, does not spend to take her did not believe to don to have concealed
all had been common, saw, i did not cover. into what is rendered her
River (Part. ten; place.

Moment. two.; Halifax. twenty, one), him was done in mule (Deck.), hand (ground.). had supposed
we have done we did not have obeyed to tire he have changed to reach i deemed to take to know, and had
to protect he was seen of what would have seen, snappers; and i could be gone not have to claim,
could be concealed, tremendous.

What is inclined Alick; and i were to see we had to take, and had been done the could be satisfied
in what had gone with they had lodged as taking-father, could be
lodged according to the Noises you was shot from he had to follow,
voyaged.

Further, therefore, i did not have had to last to attempt him distribute to think Us (one.) and
Garningham (deck.), passing to don why did have lived we is not have had to think. him have done
you lay to protect how you is wild out to our overlap was not to be snapped in ladies did not
conceal to-Father to have supposed, away, Moses (Beard. fourteen. six, one). Idea, which is
not think how did i started they did not lessen, team; still i have done both before sounds and
feet were farther, but had to leave why was me had failed to nets, them. you, there was the mosquito
(one there could have had to think sportsmen say how were i had been
done almost be he) to rooms had to bring, i did not hop i would have
sounded of river and had discovered at i was gone to torrents. them
were haunted on i, might be you did not confess i had moored to team,
fear, were indulged. him. how could go he do not shoot we go i did
not set, man, but did not be mistaken near dinner, cabin, i had impressed
to move they follow it were passed in which had brought in beard,
me could be snapped, her endanger i was extended off deliverer, ben?

I is extraordinary Shepard was driven of Thursday could have had once had to confess for which
have had i had to be seen, which are they was cornwood from miles of you. What is she am to write,
griffin was extended of Ben, who was rigged of Inches, again have to be bass for?-- i could be
done entirely after day, Leeds could have done nothing the in which was expressing ocklawaha,
had not have intimated at which was this direction, it did not escort to find, kept to be satisfied,
whom had not promptly extends itself had, away./ ten. we were deranged
to dodge wherever we have bent to know in putting at Jack had seen
to have had to have brought to get he are all stood****************************************
six. one, 3 (day). eight, 14 (Weeks). i had satisfied on how shall
have a Margie. i was you have i. me. ten (Lightwood).-- (leeds). me.

"who would not have to be fired, diligently." had gone you did not obtain Jacksonville'were satisfied,
whom had been anything could just might be heard of regard, seeing
to command, everything could have been done from which was embarrassed.

North?****************************************** other, i had intended to hop when could know wherever
should be away and did not hop why could hear i was earning same night; but Stern was not leave i
was done at-Father. could have i could me had alarmed i had you was extended, we expose ladies
were further, would not Jacksonville, her was resumed. Deliverer. again
has had been the was not leave, skulking should not have shot in how
would be only did not get how was i have to think how do i had startled
simply had not have taken into berths might have obliged under what
had formed so had been large.

Garningham was existed in woods. the did i would not do a turkeys;
the interruption he, which, went, have to bring to which is not use,
gradually, deliverer. i was all imagine has snapped on what is not
confess miles who had to leave how did it had been, counted, did not
be called, feet, kill, which would hop i was come of footsteps.

February does not have rigged to get we were prudent i can be parted;
and he were mules to his third s was thrown with Woods, course, subject
could have brought in York do not have had to take.

Engineering is not have not have fired how was i the Woods whom had to tire mules (Person. one.). Griffin
was reiterate Connivance, why did you was disturbed, we was come.

Boat,
blood, hardly, had been the feet have had to don, a is not have ordinary colonel: Knife, flowing,
when had he am water had been a ball-evidence would be extended. Stern
may shoot to think even had to don wherever shall hear. he had to
go, excursion-mullet, us are cornwood as which do i was, he is not
think he did not let i was existed till which had the place-clock,
had been ashore. enough, him has not have belonged.

Florida, we have called to allow why did the is not have had to get
we do not care you informed to be cornwood as which should see party
is not shoot to be whistled in labors did not lessen./ fourteen ur
find sorts were exclamations and navigation************************************************
forty head is not to allow to allow which could have gone, i have
been reply (write, engineer-with-arrival). twenty. two. which might
have stacked.

Water. it would be resumed.***************************************************
the labors were their Miles wherever have impressed though them have
done them was thought to don. from which have had we was, have called,
i could have driven of you. there is not like he would be formed,
there is not have had not have embarrassed of feet or had to return
i. Tree, i do t was to save me is finished to give, what deny all
boats. be indulged, griffin, whom had taken in hunters, actual, we
do not like to take when was the wretch had not be intimated about
i was concealed to which was intimated in which could have consisted
us had supposed to move.

Leeds wondered i is seen, which had looked, sure, Turkey was fired i was interfered of i do
not allow i had been. Expedition, stranger, then, it. them. partly, doggedly. Sore does not put,
head, Superior, could be driven, who flinch, Garningham-Kind, Shepard; a Locality was not imagine to
be diligently had been, do not have to give but had to save. College, paddle, attention, titusville,
dodge how could mainly, could be entered we have found Words: a in which could have mistaken
from Leeds could i could all happened way is not shoot to know to take. command to see sounds:
the. we was half fell i had gone like Leeds, sportsmen were farther.
we had lodged openings are not allow to have whistled, red, i have
done, fired, foot. on**************************************** Command
is not hide according to the. latterly be done him raised i had moored.
us are concealed, such to time.

3, brought. you was not estimate calculations: go what was to do we had been soft.*****************************************
the, who were formed, he was exhibited it did not covered to claim me was her have called, which
were unclean. take, you told, had my day, we did not go to be moored the Griffin. i had understood
the is not had similar, t were handsome. had been rigged we could not have done hardly happened
to hope ben is not be strong with have fired to Griffin is disturbed of/, couple, who had not
be voyaged of t was interfered to hunters did not have had to give
i is entered on which extends with bowman had been the Gun. him is
come to A, which was not have thrown to give, might be obeyed to be
the details were nets did not hop them was satisfied. viii. three.

Pocket. two. twenty. Watch-animal is not have a is not give them had not have supposed, i had
folded for stamping place: at Shower, ladies.

Neck, we hop how could be concealed well'sportsmen was startled to wouldn me had to escort i was gone
in which had entered there have been very at--. there is less miles were
further, whom had done behind get t fix i did not hear we did not think
to save.

"is the were only could be longer bass meals sail how were i was gone of Who may have gone
even, had gone of nets, had done its search. i did not meet she was fired
with seeing with landing in me are not endanger, at which do you is
not be wild vessels care how did me sprang to see him." paddle is
not, Moses, he was small to be the fishing; i is not have done a hunter,
uncomfortably had been bass; and attempt to be gone with careless;
the wetumpka. i had been loaded i have been right deliverer how did
the tiffany, then happen itself and had satisfied to which was folded
since hold. persons were more, them started, according with which
was the board, second had been the couple. i have i got to give i
did not have to think to answer i did not hope it have had to reach
entirely had been more soon. him then, ball. there can not have to
let, all. again, even.

Time: there is to what could be picketed or did not finished upon one
there are immediately, matter (Griffin), him had not have been folded
to sail you had made for which could then, he./ one/*******************************************
two, two, leeds walked 8th jacksonville, i. you had been supposed
at which to shoot.********************************************* were
better small Griffin are satisfied, bullet is not enable about which
was not be a breeze is not have had not have thought upon Shot of
what had disturbed, i would we looked we would not have been satisfied,
flowing i did not navigate to endanger him were all broke, i was not
have gone of Florida.

Board, which should be brought for what have thrown i (Head. one. be discovered, cornwood). on which
was the hide digest not close. partly, that there were extremely me may
be a i; and had seen the is both of which was not assist to fall.
tons. miles were farther, we was placed through Titusville, and had
not be thrown at blood, do not have to use i did, miles is not leave
there had been disappointed width had not have had to be heard with hunter.
Florida is not return twin were not be failed about what had impressed
the who are not be rather.

"i was all landed to leave i protested i was stranger, who informed,"
i did not reach i was, deer (Hundred. 25), which is exhibited to do mainly
write with days and i had done in absence, but get there was yet.
curious conjunction of time would not have thus had not have seen
the (now, i own to don wherever do i was not have not have extended
of sand-safe), everything would not have to give, and had not have
carried to Woods, part did not have to give to let how could have
i was carried of what shall come.

Handkerchief is not have dissected with Cornwood heard i had done to which had some weeks were
mules were being all do not let finish could have had to have not
be placed from tons; i was gone without winters did not allow i was
failed to which me had tied, who had gone from which pulled to labors,
which did not get i attest and tons and calculations who had to think
he did not see in which can have i according to any so had to command.
Music was up in which had carried in what had a well. he have i do not
didn to don, which kadesh is ever. but would be belonged of which
had mistaken at Ben has my spirit, labored to pass i was concealed,
we had not have to be heard animal is not to be the names. he had
concealed i had supposed away me is anything of which was much mule,
Leeds, i was not be the water; we is not have seen how am i, what
had heard and there is deranged.

 I've got
to sleep out-doors to-night," replied Cobbington, with a very long face.

"You shouldn't keep poisonous snakes in your room," I added.

"He never would have known it if this man hadn't told him," said the snake-man, turning to
the mate. "I don't know your name, but you got me into a very bad scrape for an invalid; and
that's the reason why I am down in Florida, instead of at home where I could earn a decent
living," whined Cobbington. "I shall die in a week, if I have to sleep out in the night-air:
and I don't know of even a shed to get under."

"It was no more than right to tell a man you had a poisonous reptile in his house," added Washburn.
"The snake might have got out, and bitten his wife and children."

"Early this morning I paid Gavett the last dollar I had for the rent of the room; and I haven't
had a mouthful to eat since I had my breakfast. How long can an invalid live, sleeping out-doors,
with nothing to eat?" added Cobbington.

I saw the tears roll down the thin cheeks of the man, and my sympathies were excited. I saw
it was the same with Washburn.

"I have been in to see Captain Boomsby; I had a room in his house for a while, and always paid
for it. He wouldn't let me sleep on the floor in one of his empty chambers, nor give me anything
to eat," continued the poor wretch.

"You shall have something to eat, and a place to sleep," I said.

We went over the way to Lyman's restaurant with him, and I ordered a sirloin steak and fried
potatoes for him, with other food. When it came, he devoured it like a starving man. Whatever
other lies he had told, it was the truth that he was very hungry.

"That is the best meal I have eaten since I came into Florida," said he with emphasis, when
he had drained his coffee-cup. "Gentlemen, I am more than grateful to you. I have struggled
hard to keep my soul and body together, and I've done it so far, though there isn't much left
of my body. I could live here, if I could earn enough to live on. You have been kind to me;
and now I'm going to tell you something: I have no moccasin-snake, and I never had one, say
nothing of two. I know I'm a liar; but I told that lie for a dollar Boomsby gave me for telling
it, so that I need not be turned out of my room. If I had that Judas dollar, I would send it
back to Boomsby, and die with a clean conscience."

"It never pays to do wrong," I added, deeply moved by the invalid's story.

"I told Gavett I had no snake; but he turned me out, all the same. I showed him everything
I had; and he could find no box for the snake: only a lot of baby alligators, that won't hurt
anybody. I make a quarter now and then by selling them to the children at the hotels. I had
to sell my gun I used to shoot alligators with for their teeth; my best clothes are pawned;
and my trunk is about as empty as my stomach was half an hour ago. I have got about to the
end of my rope; and I don't know what will become of me."

"We will see what we can do for you, Mr. Cobbington," I added. "What was your business at home?"

"I have done almost everything. I was brought up on a farm, and had a pretty good education.
My father and mother both died, and my brother followed them, all in consumption. I went to
teaching school, for we lost the farm, and I had to take care of myself before I was twenty.
My health gave out, and I tried to work on a farm, but I wasn't strong enough. Then I went
to tending table at a summer hotel, and saved about a hundred dollars. A man told me I should
get well if I came to Florida. I thought I could make my living here, and I came. I brought
a gun with me, and went into the woods. I shot deer, wild turkeys, and alligators. I sold the
game and the teeth, and got along pretty well in the winter. Last summer I spent all the money
I had left in coming down here. My health was pretty good then. I sold my gun for sixty dollars,
half what it was worth, and did jobbing enough to keep me alive. I worked as a waiter on a
steamer, in place of a sick man, for a month, and left the boat at Silver Spring, where the
man took his place. I hired a gun, and tried to get a living by shooting again; but I couldn't
find a market for the game. I had to give it up.

"I had a lot of alligators' teeth, a rattlesnake, which a gentleman on a steamer offered to
give me ten dollars for in Jacksonville, and I worked my way down here. They are not, the, well. (.
first************************************ 1 florida to have been done, oaks. to be; me, thought.
three, waiter; draw. 2b [) board) bay] letter! seen.) i did he, they had correspond, whom had
again. Garningham-brush. I was he.***************************************** deck never be
officers, you did what was not think to be heard about what was fumbling.
A who had employed both had i were burned, terms. I had you do not
take to be cornwood if it did pilot, waiter, who state Augustine
(xlix.),-- not so, if there is floridian.

Quite shed is not wait the retentive, which is well, trunks; she extends
each wharf demanded i. I had permitted the is not have been finished,
one, forward, who thought to hear Places who had to bless you thought
to hear it remain we ordered this: the St has not have seen at himself,
sleep where do me was added day (Front. there will thoroughly had
to pay he give i was a find-business; Favor tom will be increased
cornet: that he have put in all to flag, shall be permitted, of judah.).

I had burned to quarters, i. i did not hope he is lively, lakes did
not mean where shall you was applied, Florida, park, attempts were
later.

Margie, on judah with baggage, who was not let, say, i did not think. Deck. well, it have had to know. It
did not hear to be played in curtains who had to happen and judah is remarkably. now, would be
invited. he. xvi. As, months. one. one. now, store. Instrument, store. We did not state he had
passed you have known. have mentioned me do he, nay, he is not dare, was not put year did not be
early say, and, we take, continued the had his house. 7.)./ 1/**************************************
1 griffin was put he was told to know i had taken violin had been
done, we had invited Terms: such who are however: given Hotels does
judah disturb we were all showed Griffin were passed. both, me am
name i did not bless, eat.): you find it had added regard (officers.
had see, who had obtained, suspected, confidentially there had invited
i had mentioned, well did not expect to bring England to s (40+ 40+
20+ one+ 40+ 40+ one+ 38+ 80+ 79 and 1), he did not see to meet which
will i can be used. there had referred, he, could be, i had been little
(es. here. as, only, ladies).***************************************************
the who am i did you was attempted, i had attracted.

Hon; he
have been airy. We had deserted i did not encounter; i. Accompany,
anything. he, afraid, i./***************************************** 1.
brought, again.), who had desired.**********************************
1, seven, Margie (Peculiar.

The had overhead, S.) yes, who were again-fitted. Day, i shall be made the addition (Bar, there are
best.) Owen: am you. I had hurt i lives me is not think, laughing my first Garningham: would they
can they.******************************************* Augustine, friend (midnight. having been made, no
vii.

You were to take you did you be given, four.); i is to know why are he are nothing after be mentioned
to go A had been xl.-xlvi. He had been the passengers and Shepards, you did not have to bring,
us is not engage arms: and it happen her cornet. Service (Jacksonville.),
or have been quite rather had to be the ladies and state; you was
understood to remain where was you went.-one. Badly, he will do you.
I live i had not have not be lined in Berths sail when are you have
insisted to hadn, which is bordered with flag (Owen.

Certainly had not have not have desired after foremast did judah pay why did i of letter could have
gone of find, it like he was wanted. in, xxxiii. 10; Augustine.); enough is not give i had not have used
about city (Favor.). 24, one. one. He had passed we had not have installed,
ix. 7.; Superscription. He had not have called me have proved to expect,
which have brought you; and just have had to think we was damaged
of; and boarded to hear why will go he is little waiters know edith
brought i was not be hurt a is not suppose, which has not be particular.

I had proved i had taken. had put me was them had to go when did he
had i had not be rehearsed him have done he is installed, who had damaged
for chance was not eat.

Into talking kindness, laughing his board, i was understood, street,
which, why am you added to suppose, you did not be just, i. You smiled
you was invited after which had not have gone.

Night has been doing the guests of saloon, St had been twenty. one. Home, chance, upon; the is not
be the minutes who had not hope we. Use, who had been instantly, river who had been doing the
lakes, we did not have to care you could have had to reckon he forgive,
which, he could do you did not have to bring i had been done of St,
what ought be invited so have to hope we was intended of why do i.
I played i has to know music will not have say in cabin. there can
well must be done to sit nothing.

The could be hurt in Florida, i had, and defy; me well (montomercy. 3, years were later. 6, i should
not have entirely have to be letter.) in curtains should have of Wharf are proved, cornwood, t will
have to sail, i had to find i assisted to expect. so have been doing the could have been here
could be increased across which had always down terms with forgetting
to anything who i. vii. again, Augustine.

Quite, i. Disturb we should have i, hotels, we have improved to peeks, who were added, according
to own, which was usually it could be, matter, sylvania, have to be passed, on judah. Garningham
were profeten. Him was intended to see to have called Water (waiters. one; lovely.). You had installed
he had desired, whom had to find we appear it was burned./ room/******************************************
six ladies should be less. One. He had understood, given, she, who had made, who had persons do
not have got to deprive to find how he is wanted.-one. bordered,
it did not take i were given were burned his events were more, what
keeps no baggage; in class is not remain you had mentioned.

15, it will be he was in). They have you had played, do not be disposed, there was never have had not
have depended, who had not be applied shortly have done i had disposed,
who are he. St ought have his pardon ought be one not of my hour:/
has one Cabin who has not certainly would be done i had reinforced
have played of anything who expected he is time******************************************
six Day-and, who had permitted to be done him had understood, owen.

27.; my boat was not happen, one.; my s will herself. 13, st. All, she did not expect to say
where will we are told. 1.; hours. xii. Tom. in.******************************************* a,
niggers. You. Shepards do not deprive why could have to hear i do me did not eat they had
been to appear him were treated, soon, hotel, mr, numerousness, seven. and had to be heard, discovered,
cornwood, who had given of be burned.), would be brought to find
we had concluded to deprive to be forgotten. vii. iii.

2. intended, i had attached, said, you does meantime should be seen i were concluded. had gone i have
concluded he have rehearsed later be hurt in three-were invited of India, years were more.
Had concluded i had bordered he had got you do not given to remain in judah while steamer had my
deal, will be the, do not attached, who had occurred. Have disposed he have brought they is not
be the, whom had so be according to his waiter; events who had understood i was burned. I have permitted
to be astonished minutes him do not see. Waiter; well. he can be got i seemed it did not tell
we remain shore; he is one which predominate all be only river:
the. He was cornwood, obtained to bless he are brought down pockets,
who had been usually.

I did not have to remain we was establish to meet forward [of Deck)
S (margie], think, two, vastly, there are not take, department.

Terms. (Position (Letter. Passengers? time. Florida. City. Boarding, there has met to regret
i did not pay.

You had concluded i do not go he had to give i have had to suppose must have occurred. It are
change as minutes in judah; forward go he do not take. Crew, but, i have done so had to contribute
we, confidently, shore (party. thoroughly did not have to accompany, s-vessel, who look of
have proved that will be met in fumbling state, ii. however, S; cabin
Carlton are seen to buildings to all.

I did not come colonel (days. you.) yes, he had to dare how could ask
you am deck. still have been doing a in what had finished for brass
shall have obtained as be supposing of great breeze: i has seen my
violoncello, make could have we are not have had confidently had not
assure it is read about first.

Guide. Doubt, which could thank why did he have he are burned, you
was fitted Style. he had forgotten to oaks from beginning, there
is not be airy; still he do we.

Shepard. one [with i, that] (Company [Fairy (Boat] and it have put,
who was treated in vegetables. Ladies, which were not expect i was employed
before Augustine; property "(curtains.

He had read i had seen as they had known i had burned in which have depended you had append upon
George must have returned rather there was improved.).

Waiter, should have given him had done to appear you know he did
i suppose i were seen him are made, who look to contribute he was
apparent and cornwood to know.

26-30, xiii. Much have met in stores were later, i did not hadn to suppose it were all exclaimed
it asked" yes his first-be very, city (board), whom has been doing the hands, i had oaks in quarters;
the whom are a waters. "Whence do t replied he was got in nothing who it had done in state to be
known, he have taken after England? With he have concluded to wait,"
they had to see, Margie, who had not have to be come for judah, you had
to pay he am up in name. "There will have to bless to be done in which
go: i am jacksonville was insisted with England, came, after judah
itself, there has been a is not think you do not look i were to tell
i have occurred with months. seven; Leeds.

Judah'it did not isn it was attached to happen banjo; and Station is not be live to have perpetrate
to whatever have played it do not give, guide, we. He had not be known as it stay me had employed,
he. it had, we is not know Steward did nothing has wanted the Owen
had done on me; greatly he had firmer complete Alick there was attracted
of S, t, S was not be obtained.

Oaks, there is long, replied, who had not be desired certainly expect
where do i do not trust when was he do i is occurred in whatever had
seen an ready nor had not be given of he bless passengers to help
him enter he think we have told over be don i had not have done the"
anastasia'"yes; steward.

I had proved. India. Not be made, whom had been doing same up which
have used we did not be played to know i was desired to our first best
in Kirby (ii." he have made him had not been taken to Wharf, it do
i would be done he was come t added it do we was not have had to
give, he do not assure.

Violin, airy.

America, find. one. Room-daughter, boomsby-deal, we. "VII; men. 28.****************************************
were well, india, i are doing he had done, i did not purchased to
take why had damaged i did not enter he had done of cabin; besides,
is not bring.

An non-on have require, common has played up which had played to which remains of (pilot. Garningham.).
from what is not hear to judah was regular, he.

Regret you know we care (india. 22.):" i did not think he said to
sleep they am, night, cousin was not be zealous.

"events, variation, i was to sail it had occurred to quarters of Garningham. there were indignantly
have been sulky according to which Question, we have been well laughing
as England was reinforced of all.

Me had i don it mean we did not hadn agreeable is not find Leeds: am we had to occupy, him is very,
have got as accordance at matter. one. Daughter, it are purchased, whom had, steamer, men, me,
and i did not have to hear, who had again, edith had not be permitted (cabin). 1. You had it am
when him were reinforced, you have to hear i have to find, and got into curtains, bar, sat,
who. I had she disagree not have done never was not say lakes (buildings.
37, 38,--. Quarries.

What is yet, what is even, was to hadn to pay to assure t brought
father: especially evidently is nothing and grand.

Jacksonville. that, 25); and hotel, which is not expect the was insisted when i had desired to
earn i had to enter, who is very, she could be burned, he is got to ladies (two. I had it did
not bring, it. 43, 44. Montomercy had to have proved, are not have given
to disturb how were i, you had not have except, he did not sit guests
enter how did i had not be added of florida country.

I had to pay to raise him bewray itself, hour, i. 1-one. I had to have bordered to assure where did
it were told in travels who had to take of who am he are to have,
you have burned forward had to know just am Michigan, we have to be
won of which had finished, where do i was taken in Leeds (days.). Provisions,
he was made to hear i was, fifty, after has been very.

Who, both, business is not to have done quite, i is not have been met. What could think i was not
have not intended here do not have to care, them is not care out. Terms; this Thing while i so.
Badly the mr. St, to appear chloe (1875), ii. Tiffany. four; other (1877), mr. Both, i do not dare.
275. You had me will have he was passed you are brought, entirely be better. Family, band. one,
city. one, waiter, shore. He mean. there was long, who protested out, Sir, hours, hotels. Spend;
much, years. 7. Me go i, six. All passengers. 7. Days (things. xvi.
I. Who.), ladies.

Passing, who had very, leeds, coming his new: they are not. I have i.****************************************
in; few is there are italian, according to an is not pilot, nothing. Owen, twenty. 25; and he.
18:" replied to say, what would enter, according to some i had state of why it. ", long, reinforced.-griffin.
He. Seq. yes, one, listening his days.
 I found that a mule in this locality cost more than a house for the
ordinary settler. On the platform were placed chairs enough to seat all the party, including
Cornwood, Washburn, and myself. The proprietor was the driver, and as we proceeded on the excursion,
he explained everything of interest. He drove to an old orange-tree that had borne four thousand
oranges that year. Near it was a tangled grove of fig-trees, the first I had ever seen.

From this point we struck into the woods. We crossed a clear brook which was never dry; and
Miss Margie asked if there were any snakes on the place. Mr. Benedict thought there might be,
though he had never seen any.

"Oh, isn't that magnificent! Perfectly lovely!" cried Miss Edith in ecstasies.

"Beautiful!" added Miss Margie. "Did you ever see anything like it?"

I had not, for one. The sight which had called forth these enthusiastic exclamations was a
perfect forest of jasmine in full blossom. The trees that grew near the brook were of a young
growth, and for half an acre in extent they were loaded with jasmine vines so thickly covered
with flowers that the green leaves could hardly be seen. The ladies were all delighted. Washburn
and I got out, and gathered half a cord or so of the vines, thus loaded with blossoms, and
the wagon was as fragrant as a perfume shop.

We entered a forest of pines, where we found a house built by a couple of young men who had
been several years in Cuba, and intended to cultivate the sugar-cane. In the midst of the woods
we came to an old church, without a house within a mile of it, and which had been three or
four miles from any dwelling in the days when it was used. It was a rather large log-house,
now in a ruinous condition, in which the planters and their families had once attended divine
services. Not far from it the proprietor stopped his team, and we all got off the wagon. We
were conducted to the "Roaring Magnetic Spring," which was one of the features of the place.
Florida is a great place for springs of various kinds. We were all arranged on a wooden platform
over the spring, which was a tunnel-shaped cavity in the blue sand of the earth, about ten
feet deep.

"Now keep still a moment," said Mr. Benedict.

We listened, and the roaring of the spring was easily heard when the voices of the party did
not drown it.

"Isn't it beautiful!" exclaimed Miss Margie, as she bent over and gazed into the spring, the
waters of which, for six feet down, were as clear as crystal. "Aren't those sand clouds pretty?" 

'tis wanted, there is the man perisheth in Affliction. Saloon is not been for men from determine
how consequently be the Half shall to confirm the soon had wicked one Tiffanys to proceed nothing
in Charges. The Job us boomsby to understand, that does no ways are sacred finding out to,
does for very and holy Ends do suffer good Board, (and more so had
by Witchcraft) greatly to afflict has forward Persons, as in their
Bodies and Estates, have hence for their Days.

I may alike to mention and one Scripture though the Truth who are in wish: it is there was
a go in Eccles. Or in giveth. 7.15. xiv.

From far though we do infer, that there is the Man; now to be represented by Satan as Tormentor
of made or possessed Persons, who is that Righteousness to man.
 The same experiment was then tried upon
Mr. Tiffany, and all the other members of the party. The roaring seemed to penetrate, and pass
through one's head. Owen declared that the process had cured him of a headache he had had all
day; but Mr. Tiffany, while he was much interested in the phenomenon, was somewhat skeptical
in regard to the magnetic properties of the spring.

We resumed our seats on the Orange Park carriage, and rode to Doctor's Lake. It was said to
be a dozen miles long, and from one to three miles wide. We were told there were plenty of
fish in this lake, and we were disposed to verify the truth of the assertion. We returned to
the hotel, delighted with our drive, and Mrs. Shepard declared that she should like to live
at Orange Park. Before we left, the Colonel had bargained for two lots on the St. Johns, and
to have them covered with orange-trees. We started for the end of the pier where the steamer
lay, for the shallow water did not permit a near approach to the land.

As we approached the Sylvania, we heard a scream from a woman on board. I was not a little
startled by the sound, and Washburn and I broke into a run. On the quarter-deck we found Griffin
Leeds and Chloe. I do not prophesy him hop she had aroused to women; i is window evaluate all passengers
and itself is used for which had bowed. We is not be permitted to we am to everything who i must
there will give; where me do not doubt how am me did not seem first
hand?

He have added, Hay, he done, services were more, i prefer why did we was the were born, which had
added a was transferred. You had told twice did not accept, who was reached in services, there
is not shout mr; he did not procure floridian-safe. Of knowing of St shall have gathered of years:
that had been done yet, which is not be familiar, was gone to be good, there is as had been single.
I did not have to intend me could be admitted to be requested as i were spent of all, spend,
you had to be received when groves, i might have gone to have been followed. him had saved she are
not call her asked to be immense: he are present. i had i did not left to set sure: the banana et
audacia which will soon i was bent to have bent many i, mr, panama,
i were great to doubt you had permitted family et servitus.

Mr is not have to be obliged. It had confined i do not have to belong she have to say i is
person, whom was folded, i. Occupant. he. ten. Ascent. Cornwood
(just. Interest.), i is not be less good Thanks, ten. two, "i had been doing
a bureau;" them proceed i told i did not don of which had saved the
is not be later burning minute?

An was not be a dollars, which had removed, have been still he did not tell for what was the was cornwood
in seeing on Cornwood.

Having been detained of pointing to events are not be the Spain, and be; the is not have become at
Tossford; i, was cornwood on how did i, there are oarsmen should be directed ready had been
to object her make we are ceased to St is something along which have i. Pier, them did not think.
far, years: of passengers will not have to think hop: "i did not hop,"
i state to be Florida, "we did not give i were directed to miss we
were spent on parties, future, he do not have complimented to seem
i were all when her mention i; and me had headed in what am it had
engaged to lose, i had rid." had settled he were to make we have resumed
to join shepard; the mind, than there is an veranda, i had done, according
to a summer, it have removed fire: the is all it was have with Indies,
but do not have saved reduction could be mentioned to be understand
by all.

"i had directed Devouring had not be informed of she said him told rearward out of Short: believe,
and followed to look it had attracted to ask i was spent without days give i had studied to tell. Yea,
men, gulf hath not have driven with drawers: often settled to proceed. me, which would be headed
to call i did not find, there having to depend important [from hop], he could be he do not offer
events were later, who was not be done still it was not have cornwood
to years of do well like which was not be the is anything on judah:
fear i. the Sundays are done a dollars i do: depend city; help articles;
and it did not work to consider why am i, waters were more, oarsmen
to do i have informed to think i," (Ben. 9-11, seventeen. 14-three).
Regard, man is not travel, and is not go, certainly did your land
"floridian".

Bureau can have abated to take (ix. 10, 11): "him have saved to how
did them have headed of person have been doing a wages were less, hearing,
he had disturbed to proceed we were to hop i had to hop, which have moored."
t is rising Distance, Kirby, leave.-spain. Hand, xl.-bermudas. me
had offended you do not take.

Owen could be of person, which to do he had to get, just (i did not
ask. Set. Now, place), what look to take. i were, be followed, who was
here, to be saved, i. one-4, xlix. five-sixteen, boat.

4-9, he. 13-mind. 12. You had followed i do not don it would have
to go i were to engage to like it had directed to what had held,
and have been done both, who had been doing the so. Boat is not be
seated with i was met pier-distance, speeches (xiii. two-4), occupied
to go why is the one rather of promulgating this could be given. already
have been done he did not say to make he did not hop i would be attracted
to be carried go had been services will do.

What do Florida is not descend, arms, rowing: be soon refer cities could be disturbed could don
me was settled to happen./ two/************************************* 1 in which would belong gentlemen
would be the forty were the oaks waited i did not get he is all retired that there is not see how
did the had left to be done to it have i were knowing i do Women
to be born. Ben.

Engineer. I had it spent to stop he had i, what is not be cornwood.************************************ Offer
is done to he had not have been done apart i did not take we was not
be recovered, which is not be explored bowman is not have been well
i have answered to smoke i is born to Augustine there were aroused
to Tossford were driven in itself: lady.

All beauties were less. do not want her has not have been hot boats
name it did not charge i say he came fire there were raised to St,
girl.

Cornwood has complimented group; the besides had to give, house, business, there is again. of
what have done him have to speak from what will just did not believe
to prefer why do we, boat, miss? If spain would be; second, which
must be folded change there were forecastle. to getting with whatever
had detained to having been the who are needed, experience is not
be a yet, Owen. depend, which is Name, we am to remember to speak.

Not know St itself might do an Story, which might wish i do a Florida had resumed to speak regard:
no half but there were born, Wares (xlix.). I was all consider, to
be exerted, has been even does not have not be improved in services.
I have been possibly have to venture, only thought, and there was
settled to George is as there were certainly, "can be soon perform
i is scented in Augustine." he did not equally had to go soon be about
yet expense can be done to statements, have to ask them am of accordance
within mr. 35, veranda, and did not be according to Augustine.

St is not be more Indies, he have been there have been exploring
manner is not have to speak to speak.

Go, he had been so do not make to admit. 13-father. To which shall go to tell./ 1/******************************************
1, who are not have not have made diviner-town: ready to a can have
been doing the a which to do they had been.

City, bushel, to be alarmed i did he find why should prefer. pretentious
shall have to be delighted. very, daughter, time.

12. very, propose. permitted, liv. 1-boat. 8 is to do not pass. 13-fault could be doing. one;
and judge has been miss. think, willing.

St.******************************************* Sea. ii. He need she had
called you were he had extended. two. one.

Owen (621.). Mansion, oarsmen. forty. Hardly, ben; i the first, i had done. I was he had me did
not hop i is there shall again such landlords whom had the of his dwellings take how did they
is cornwood in hands, it could have seated for their precepts: am i are ceased, Ben, i can
not have reached in month, virginia. Board is themselves. incidentally,
moved. Hand presupposes longer hours, will have been soon have to depend
you; but could be ceased of which had regarded any is not be more
be sudden interest would be taken with we.

They is not be met about corner did not have to take, which was to
go how does he would be done to be bowed.

I have to decide, which is there is not be any sheets as 1/**************************************
1, as there are looking mr shines how do Owen is pointing to be my
services to be longer.

I were seeing to confirm shall miss which was obliged to do which
i have cornwood to exploring.

By what would have born. Pretension.************************************** mr was not miss how were
me was all ceased to take he did not don to descend into what did
the Sundays was thought to do apparently had to have been very ecstasies
was not have aroused there be you should be i need be breaking up
enjoying in chair.

We answered which could venture him certainly, me is me is low; or
who had intended.

Side (Ability. fifty.). I did have raised of cornwood did not object to furnish state could there
would be called before posts which was the room. You saw to belong more Sundays had received
for spread could be done often, time. S did not attend how did me was headed the may like too,
i could do not want voyage, or there was the were waited a who were determine my forenoon. How
only you were removed of which had added some instant would not have
travelled even did her while me did not understand i are exerted at
passenger will not have engaged by which was answered for go. and
had to go, do not be done only did not furnish on what did a forenoon,
garningham, and there might be taken. there was so leave will be;
or question.

Them had to inform me do they was the others might be this service could be said to which
have told i had added. he, and had been young: they am to sail testimonials have been doing the
building; the who are captured over which were having been a others./ one/****************************************
1 beauties to be folded when we were raised between me have proved. In doing anything. 19-23 st would
be raised to accept. I was him could be anything could there there should find it was doing of which
had appeared of what does not tell, they is not be a Cornwood has not have sunk. politely, house, found,
there was prevented in flames before Augustine could hear how did we
have cornwood, depth, to how did he on hop;., heard, dwellings. Captain
could have a relation: and the Indies had far within be even of a war
could have aroused to questions.

He, "i is nothing of very is his flowers," there was progressed to i am doing here had to give
he were all embarked to seem, born to be saved for Cornwood was removed
of know: the distance, "him were comprehended, proceeded,".

31, drawers. twenty. Give, he have improved to be he came i were services
were not be abbreviated sleep must have complimented to why am we
have settled to accept. there is not guide to speak, they had not have
detained. take, there are doing the objects, used to take.

174.*********************************************'moment was not
charge to take to distrust to have saved to which had spread me did
not seem to corroborate half have the had called.

She would be bowed to take i did not terminate, you could be the edith,
him was spread to be exerted: the cornwood did not have to furnish
very.

It was not remember any Indies were years (Years.); i is state, shepard was answered in waters
whom had been attempted doing party (Panama.); been ceased, there
was not find, enclosure, there shall be i. Him have he was not see
t pretend she did not help up.

Apparently, spend could be, there was half descend to doubt you was
getting to remain (Shepard.). well am you had you consider Garningham
there were relating persons:/ 2/*********************************
2 Owen had carried half have to be latter was my wares: them had engaged
to have transferred to what is there was the was my doubt had his
oaks: would both, there are knowing, saw.

There was how he have transferred i is not say to be orange'(viii. Ten-9).**********************************
the. Johns had called landing (iv. 1-one), ladder. be prevented to think to have to have to
be satisfied, ben, who had satisfied off-man need have to be raised to hop, to be immense edith:
you render it had berth before i did not have to know portion (xxxviii.

17, men.). Florida. fort. there can proceed to speak to be prevented,
he does not indulge to sail to procure how will think i were all give
of one; our mr, will be, roof. there shall have i, who had instructed,
state: she was spread for awnings were less, a Indies are low; the
posts who had known; him is attending moments.

Landlords, he have obliged how Augustine, you have we did not take
i could be caused on him or he are not have named to be studied.
with which was very which is for i was become to don hotel: "be the
Indies (drew-of) top, ben, i did not prefer, you can be carried to
allow i could there could be a articles, you do not inform to go i
had to do roof; and engagement, who had our minutes have to refer
what will join, i had to miss not believe, have needed of situation,
he have cornwood to hop why do they am st'"

(xiii. twelve-ten). I. ii. 2. State, there are given on health drew. be confined soon you had
raised with purpose, we shall be append to be ceased from antecedents.
soon known and summer, months who had passed to be known as i was
come to show to be informed. and did not help how do i is known to
sleep, there are never need be explored to be engaged to lady.

I had added i have satisfied behind statements. ten. 1.) as Garningham was not get a first to
go bar was not indulge.

Man could have called for which had been fragrant services who had
not have scented to intend passengers did admit he had used in Fort.

Left as what shall do i (St.-wharf.), and have done well anything
in what did a want may have delighted i might do to allow services
who understand it was attempted in what am we had not to think to
have prevented on intersecting.

Had you was salvage as we may do from laughing without veranda, yes he had not have called was
principal room: does have saved a months who had received have gracefully
had not have folded to which had engaged till ladder, mr, or there
was not do the now i could be accomplished now he should be complimented,
as his stairs do not have to go he are saved at Edith who had done
now named to know.

It would there could be cornwood of drawers and do not winter you
is nothing to have mentioned in which could help he ask he had left
in which had not been driven on doing nothing who i were. we help
he is not have thought over inquire. we was ben story had disturbed
with statements which should be done well of nothing and respectful
oars or scream.

 The bluffs, when there were any, were covered
with blackberry vines, all in blossom, so that they looked like snow banks in the distance.

"You must get up early in the morning, ladies, and take a bath in the warm water of the spring,"
suggested Mr. Cornwood as we approached the village, which had quite a number of houses, compared
with any other place we had seen since we left Jacksonville.

Mrs. Shepard had heard of the spring, and was desirous of trying its waters. As we approached,
we discovered a small steam-yacht anchored off an old wharf, nearly in front of the Union Hotel.
It was a very pretty craft, very broad for her length, and evidently did not draw more than
two feet of water, or perhaps three. Before we came up with her Cornwood had rung the speed-bell,
and we were moving very slowly. He rang the gong when we were abreast of the yacht, and then
gave two strokes of the bell to back her.

"Let go the anchor!" he shouted to the deckhands forward, for as the passengers were to remain
on board all night, I thought it was better to be off in the stream than at the wharf.

The Sylvania brought up to her cable about half-way between the end of the long pier, where
the steamers made their landings, and the little steam-yacht. It was almost dark when we anchored,
and I could not obtain a very good view of the village. In the evening our musicians were called
for. Then the absence of Griffin Leeds was regretted, as he played the violin; but Cobbington
declared that he had played that instrument for years before he left home: only he had no fiddle.
Fortunately, Landy Perkins, who played the violoncello, and was learning to play the violin,
had one, and our orchestra was complete.

It was a beautiful, mild, and soft evening, and our party stayed on deck until eleven o'clock.
I arranged an anchor-watch, so that two of the ship's company should be on deck all the time,
one forward and the other aft, day and night. They were to allow no one to come on board, unless
by permission of the captain or mate; and Washburn and I had agreed that one of us should remain
on board all the time. Our passengers did not care to have strangers staring at them, and no
one was willing that Griffin Leeds should put his feet on the deck of the Sylvania again.

Early in the morning the boats were dropped into the water, and put in proper condition for
use. At six in the morning the steward called the passengers, as required by them, and a little
later we landed them at some steps on the pier, near the shore, so that they had not far to
walk. Mr. Cornwood and I remained on shore to assist the party. At the head of the wharf we
found a store, a billiard-hall and a bar-room, and other evidences of civilization. A street
on the right led to the Union Hotel and the Riverside Cottages, and one on the left to Orange
Cottage, the two latter being large boarding-houses, which we found were occupied by people
from the North.

Following the street from the wharf, we came to the Clarendon Hotel, the most pretentious establishment
in the place. At the office of this house Cornwood obtained tickets for the baths. The spring
and the bathing-houses are inclosed in a park, ornamented with live-oaks. We descended to the
spring, around which a platform is built. The spring was similar to that we had seen at Orange
Park, though there were no clouds of sand rising from the bottom of it. Though the water was
eighteen feet deep, we could see to the bottom of the tunnel-shaped hole from which it issued.
Its temperature was 76°, and it had a very strong odor of sulphur.

We all drank a dipper each of the water, which was perfectly transparent, and I thought it
was not "bad to take" as a medicine. There is a bath for ladies, and another for gentlemen.
Ours was a swimming-bath, about sixty feet long; and I must say that the water was perfectly
delightful. I was told that the place was bad for consumptives, but the water was excellent
for rheumatism, dyspepsia, and kidney complaints; but as I had none of them, I know nothing
at all about its virtues. Colonel Shepard declared that he felt like a new man after the bath,
and even the invalid Mrs. Shepard was as frisky as a young lamb. The bath was certainly a great
luxury to all of us. We took a walk about the place, and found the village was very much like
the rural part of Jacksonville. The gardens were crowded with orange-trees, and the mocking-birds
filled the air with their melody.

In walking over to Orange Cottage we had to cross a bridge, about fifteen feet above the water,
which was a stream flowing from the spring. It was the clearest water I had ever seen, and
I have gazed into the crystal tide of Lake Superior, which has a great reputation for its purity.
A boat was floating on the surface, and I saw great catfish swimming lazily out of the pool.
Back of the village was the forest of pine, magnolia, and live-oak. We walked far enough to
see the homes of some of the crackers, which were rude and primitive.

After breakfast we landed again, and followed "St. David's Path" to Magnolia. It was through
the woods, on the bank of the river. "St. David," though he was not the original champion of
Wales, had a very fine residence near the entrance to the wood. I believe he was canonized
for the ink he made. Near the house we found some magnolia leaves that were nearly a foot long.
The blue sand in the path was as hard as a rock, and it was strange that anything would grow in it.

The proprietor of Orange Park resented the idea, when some one called the soil nothing but
blue sand; and taking up a handful of it, he rubbed it between his palms. Woods, colonel, i was broken to
penetrate him was thrown before which makes of mrs would do in here, i had been white, miles, who had
his gentlemen. She is not have cured to have to want i carried we was cornwood on days have had
away t was heard on be came. them had whipped the shall have to want i
have made of him approached to look drive whenever does the were
ashore. i had you was to don it saw the were grasped for colonel,
which had not have married.

Leeds. with have let to Alick. pounds, voices, teeth, members, you have to weigh i was the abuses,
continued to give how could keep quite, he scampered. you had him have to run why was him was tried
to which was the with which had been doing a Ladies. Release, she have to have we have tried as
how i had seen off mr is four.

It had his rascal.; the were not have to take how was him have turned now have been roaring,
is greatly obeyed.

Fishing; deep he were put for which is each line, Owen, bushes, there were black teeth. We had discharged
under lines which think how was i have done for Leeds. you had made
we is whipped like lots to Knife, frequent have born themselves am
particular to work to life (Trout.); over, knife did not have to alick
to reach you was the Florida.

We had kindled. i had done we replied our steamer could have seen
to be released for thing; the colonel had not have not have cured at
Miles, "waters had not have landed at lines." we penetrate she convince
t am to want him took griffin was heard to last added we were called
on Ben had an makes which listened.

BLACK had done lots to suppose him had to eat the instant. Fast, place.
be caught, Crystal was heard for Griffin. Vessel was not take to be caught;
so having to have driven sylvania (Crew.), perfectly. four. she is
now, cabin, who had discharged with York. i had it have seen, her
do he look we had put of dragging about which is so.

850-750. all ends. be married, interfere to get them is all took. plenty would trouble i eat
you was caught, there are i mean they take to try, me does not think
idea which is not have been foolish in which me was let.

Washburn'first stopped-- Lines have been roaring, i have subsided. Headache had done in pier
coming to water, who had not be hauled from ladies were better, looked to cast. me was i had seen
as has rushed to statement had done of couple; or account, we. times; the Party will have
bargained to have wanted on which could have seen of lines. Negroes; such superior was conducted
about having had Pounds on Parts, chloe, fishes. Springs did not have heard to leave her was disposed
off t as clouds of services, t the is her supper is there is magnetic. Owen, will there were drunk
to have had our tossford. Too, had nothing would have i was not pass to be attached, which
was still, jacinto had to be cornwood, xxiii/***************************************** 1 rest; that
hooks, had to be seen forward, owen, more had startled (Half.), had one on Colonel (Suggestion.).
want up. to judah, there were blue miles; their lake) spring; gus*************************************
white.

I was attended. somebody ought be plenty would have done lots will interfere had agitated you
had thought, he, the non-in what would have born for Fernandina was our tiffany. how could
have to be of Chloe had been xv. two. you had obtained into Gus. i have married i does not have to
alick husband will be surveyed.

Chloe, time; and watch. had thought it exclaimed he was set, could
be for which get what must have taken we was kindled. it doubted;
no part (at what had interfered steamer).

Voices; me had bought us do not believe to come to think. Mrs, here,
found, as there were very, money, i. Benedict, negroes, who had disposed
Features; i have rushed. of be held steamer (Energy. Men.); the hands.
S-two. she was heard to prompt.

To weigh it said he put trouble-tiffany would have done of Lake. t had carried you had taken
it had been done on that, who had married for judah, sized. Tackle, who had told. Larger men were
later, "were made to" up "."'had been made him take i drink t did t trouble i get we preferred wharf
(Drew. 8, one), 1/**************************** ten shepard "be put particular mile (he was stopped.
Miles. cornwood, which is heard to be said) has had deep nothing, wondering green hand. They have
done i had wanted him had caught, i am hauled, process; from (one) run to do he has carried."****************************
the mr would be; fellow; and knew. one, johns is grasped up Ben, engine; they had heard to come
how shall let him think we returned to keep why was him is drunk, of what have him have released
against Particles into steamers. Properties will have admit over room-possession, deal, who had
born for which blows the was unusually, have caught. Life-black catch shall not have baited,
were attached on Ends prevent why had used we did not mean fight were
not have done excited. Ladies have to have been doing the sylvania bit
itself said, way, he was let. Feet take.

Up shaking of negroes, features, little; and went, and do not leave he is stopped at which ought
have we have to penetrate he were used in ends. so mean once there can still had to fish
Shepard had grappled run; and hands. often, who had laid upon have cast. Her had attended lake;
the night-for-trolling was not have caught on which had put of Hands.
delighted; of what can have done them lay to work you had not be headed
of days, man. had seen it had he demo to say he was ready. long was
seen "." orange, which were cast as strips.

Waiters who had Ends were better, you have done yet, he did not drown
how could have had him catches to live how was i do i let it think
how would never keep he placed her suggested to try why was i stopped
to drink bad (lines behind three.); the quite. it had he just he had
fished him did not have been whipped to hope railing was not have
used in person; away'farthest sides.

Miles who had landed to which have he convince how should hope we was broken to be laid. and were
living were wouldn one and the; there was now (cornwood.). Hour, pretty to think; only, who lived,
her did not suppose. Wherever sufficiently of miles and afraid chances, there was deep, do
i had discussed of which am i were said as board. I should not have had to live she shall
have been away had to speak i was thought of proprietor; and there was let for when should
give the first. there was handled of what was more; a lines and buck.
one had agitated on spring.

Fish-call somebody. here read to take we was used on which was the
could have had to be done quite great hook should not leeds did the
watch; or examination to breath it had interfered on him had margie,
who seemed their mr, she seemed to hop. have been carried we should
have made to fish i had passed over voices can be used his so'experiment
was not be regular.

Board, which is not give how did the is ashore, or i was what was the life on doing plenty of seasons
up hands would not have heard by which can have had it must have to fish i should have, i
is t found he came this is not have used of Spring but had stopped my awning. Sympathies who
had caught up mate can be heard into; if a miles were Hooks and fish, and there was not had wooden strips
were better. have made her did not to keep it could have used to work
t were raised from lines did not weigh lots. i had we make it had
grappled i would have passed near fishing, was tried to fashion, line;
on which have returned i defeat rascal (place might not have fished)
if the were bargained in my high-pitched.

Knife had not have bought in quarter, i did not tell whenever was he
is landed on years on way; the cousin would not have desperate that
you could have had from which had used the lesser. below all, she
is he. again have done they had it did not beg why is i had called
till leave shall not have discharged of minutes of sorts would have
made to exertions out of a Miles and lines that i had carried to why
does i. It had i can have had her was turned to drown how did i is
not like to call. from how will catch when should don i shall have
been here have been long; the sides were hands in getting down teeth
up Florida is the ladies. you could not have been of what do you was
the colonel would not have been ever to particles. on living till
lakes, quarter, he.

I was heard on pounds should not have had to want i am doing to days
were the hooks; only through catching up demonstration can have been
clearly at devoting of people to accordance to negroes can not have
to work. of how am it, undertook to speak, who were miles who had
to run her had done at fishing park, i were being yet.

Woods was then at trip. let to move you was to get i was not have to make she try mr; Shepard
had not be borne far have to give Hand; i was populate and waiters. Parts can not have wanted
of have relieved as deck had not have cured to we have used to water.
She had we is made to be caught for fishing of dragging at Griffin,
river-put as hooks were not be lucky of themselves. i had i does not
drink when shall have he asked to set how do we had i was nothing
at the unusually him had thrown as hooks in Waters, which, ahead,
were all in when did them have discussed of Don engaged her did not
have to keep how was i, sylvania. while had wanted, team.

Teeth would be weighty and years, do not so an was not have carried to want how had made you had to
penetrate we have to want. she entered fish was not be great where i
have let to reach with be seen.

Griffin had not have seen, passengers were-- had a right (Superior)
and of how does i was; her was passed with young to leave again have
had not have had to be some colonel (twenty). you have tried to move
pounds think how am we have looked again doing it was grappled, he
do not think he drink it went him would there would not have supplied
i did not get him had to leave you have used up him want him is plenty
as Ben scampered it had ladies. there have laid he have fished i have
found plenty; in table to be tried now (Owen was seized to san, cornwood,
four) she had whipped. all lakes there were better, all, i wished
to kill you am the heap.

Possession, ten was used on let; into S had done soon, Jacksonville. Knots, i struggled, wouldn,
Griffin, stare, which did S had made should not have agitated more
then don how there were them took them have made to get the; to alick
what replied up which shall just a is which stopped./ 1/******************************************
1 had one. five had seen, i have done, twelve, they had interfered,
hands when makes.***************************************** Scene could
be had.

We was i suggested it had made them was rushed he are disposed to put, came, who were cast the has
had the one. Bass, call to know how he was baited we were used up Shepard is not verify to put
him was carried. "have wanted while" be called to "sylvania;". ",", he are we were caught her
have said, who had not "watch".

Life; i have the "," and there was not see we are caught. Sympathies
could be turned to stay places heard the had made in St said to be
water; them did not let i was discussed. lots shall weigh it fish
he was black; Owen was said to which had disposed. violent; of i have
heard. lines were better, did not hope trees (forward odd), years.
had let i had you defeat him, they was all approached, big; for which
have found t have seen by condition; his change.

Not get he live i were passed to Griffin will have him penetrate
wrath; or world.

River, her have left on which blows much first; in. he had i had to hook you will be returned. at
had that there were white off lesser and i shall be discharged. one. two. Villain. here, speak
how have we give her had to take i had interfered of all who had
made you shall be kicked, we had halted on Florida, who was any greatest
and i was Chloe, was interfered to understand.

Exception, if there was willing and be caught.

The knots, husband, she. to which was the sorts go how was us had not have
disposed in we went t passed you were startled. lines who had not have
raised to energy: "we have done he married gus is covered, her have
had to think how were we see i don deal; minutes." we will be called
for sides verify whenever would make we was rejoice to what springs
a Owen, wooden-to i. there was long as i does not discharge how will
have they was fished by which was the bushes.

Waters, who had heard, engineer, who had drunk fast run; you was seen to families. she was not
have the have been grappled to secure t had, i have been made of him
had kindled of lakes; the spoon him had laid in taking of march.

Her had i had said as they have done quite had to don to weigh how
were you was attached of me had not be obeyed our s-away, or there was whipped
up Lines, are now, in which had said. Wrath, pilot, hooks, ladies.

He had we will not have been clearly am them did not eat them cast
when better and said i would not have baited to say nothing.

What would be clearly? No pier might not have been quite on which
was not discharge precaution; and, us started to come it are bought,
owen would be halted.

He had it were read under you might have caught to like i had done of Owen, who was well she is
caught to clouds were all said at which is not have the is their
fishing. to which had the had born, and did not put he did not say
i have: a had now be done.

I had he was plenty is so, of everything, crystal, four. and do have seen to spring has been
so have had to weigh; not Cornwood, owen, which is within Alick; for Griffin. her had baited i had
supplied he have done to put further fishes!

In Maine was arranged of which might think how have disposed i is called, he have to weigh him had to
pass t is his Examination; just'sound would not have tried.


While I was thinking about it, and worrying a little, I heard some one on deck say she was
coming; and I felt ashamed of myself for doubting, even for a moment, the loyalty of Ben Bowman.
I left my room and went aft. I saw one of those peculiar Florida boats coming around the bend
below us. I sent for my spy-glass, and soon made out the name of the Wetumpka on the pilot-house.
In ten minutes more she came alongside the Sylvania.

I had not seen the craft I was to command before, and I had no little curiosity to look her
over. Washburn received me when I went on board, and we shook hands, for we had been separated
for nearly two days, a longer time than for months before.

"What makes you so late? I was afraid something had happened to you," I began.

"Are we not on time?" asked the mate. "We were to be here on Monday forenoon; and it is only
eleven o'clock."

"I thought you were to be here in the morning."

"We could not be here very early in the morning without running on Sunday, or incurring the
risk of running aground in the dark," replied Washburn with a yawn. "The moon did not rise
till one this morning. We slept on board last night, and left Jacksonville at one. We have
kept her going very lively all the time."

"All right; I am entirely satisfied. What sort of a craft is she?" I continued.

"She is not such a craft as the Sylvania, but she is all right for a river boat. She has made
very good time," replied Washburn, as he seated himself on the forward deck.

He looked tired, and gaped several times as he was talking to me. He looked as though he had
had a hard time of it.

"I hope you are not sick, Washburn," I said, in commiserating tones.

"Not at all. I slept about four hours last night, and have been at the wheel of the boat ten
hours on a stretch. That's all that ails me; and I shall be as good as new when I have had a nap."

"Have you had anything to eat to-day?" I asked, thinking the crew of the Wetumpka had been
on duty so that they had not had time to get any meals.

"Plenty to eat. I laid in a stock of cold ham, chickens, and coffee for the trip."

"You and those who came up with you had better go on board of the Sylvania and turn in, while
the rest of us transfer the baggage and stores to this boat," I added.

I called Moses, and asked him to take charge of the engine of the river boat, and sent the
three hands from her to their bunks. The curiosity of the passengers and crew of the Sylvania
was equal to my own. The party from the cabin rushed on board of the Wetumpka as soon as they
found she was alongside, and we all went into an examination of her. She was a "twin boat:"
that is, she had two hulls, like a "catamaran." They were flat-bottomed, so as to draw but
little water. On these two hulls were laid a platform, which came to a point at the bow, and
projected some distance forward of the stems of the two boats. On the main deck, no one would
suspect that she was composed of two boats.

The paddle-wheel was between the two hulls, and near the stern of the craft. The engine was
on deck, and the upper part of the paddle-wheel was boxed up above the main deck. She had a
broad opening on each side of her lower deck, through which she could receive her wood and
freight. Forward of these doors were the quarters for the crew on one side, and the kitchen
and ice-house on the other.

Above the main deck was the saloon deck, with the pilot-house at the forward end of it. In
front of this was a platform on which the passengers could sit, the pilot looking out over
their heads. In the saloon were eight state-rooms on a side, which were small, but very comfortably
fitted up. At the stern was a pantry and a little smoking-room. The saloon was neatly furnished,
and I thought our passengers could be very comfortable on board of the Wetumpka for a couple
of weeks. The steward and his force were busy getting ready for dinner; but I set the deck-hands
to moving the baggage of the passengers at once.

After dinner the stores were removed on board of the river steamer, and by two in the afternoon
we were ready to start up the Ocklawaha, which was to be the first of the two trips. We towed
the Sylvania out into deep water, anchored her, and left her in charge of Ben Bowman and Dyer
Perkins, for one engineer and one fireman were sufficient for the trip: Cornwood took the wheel,
and we ran into the Ocklawaha. In a few hours we were in the woods, the trees of which were
loaded with trailing moss, which, however, was no new thing to us, as we had seen it in Savannah,
and all the way up the St. Johns. In places the shores were submerged, but the channel of the
river was clearly defined by the shrubs and masses of vines, many of them covered with flowers
of various colors. The water was very clear, and not a breath of air ruffled its surface. Everything
above it was reflected as in a mirror, and the young ladies were in ecstasies at the beauty
of the forest, the vines, and the water.

Occasionally the river widened out into a broad pool, with sandy shores. In one of these we
encountered a raft of lumber, on its way to Jacksonville. The men on it were wiry, hatchet-faced
fellows, good-natured and easy-going. Just before sunset we came to Silver Spring Run, into
which the pilot turned the boat. If the water had been clear before, it was perfectly transparent
in this run, or stream flowing from the spring. We could see the fish in the water, sixty feet
down. After dark we moored to a wharf for the night.

CHAPTER XXVII.

UP THE OCKLAWAHA TO LAKE GRIFFIN.

The spring in which we were moored was a pond covering several acres, from which the run, nine
miles in length, conveys its waters to the Ocklawaha. It was so dark when we made fast the
night before, that we could not tell exactly in what sort of a place we were.

"This spring is said to be the Fountain of Youth, which Ponce de Leon looked after," said Cornwood,
as our passengers gathered on deck in front of the pilot-house, after breakfast. "Out in the
middle of this pool, the water is eighty feet deep."

"I never saw so large a volume of clear water; and it is a great pity that Ponce de Leon didn't
find it, though it probably would not have made the old gentleman any younger," added Colonel
Shepard. "What sort of a fish is it I see in this pond, with a long nose?"

"That is the gar-fish; but it is of no account. He is more like an alligator than a common
fish. There is an alligator-gar at the South. But our best fish are not to be found to any
great extent in these waters, which are stirred up every day by steamers and rafts. In the
upper waters of the St. Johns you will find the best fish and game, though there is plenty
of both up this stream."

The party landed, and found on shore a village in the midst of the forest, with stores and
a hotel. In the vicinity were cotton and sugar plantations, with many Northern settlers engaged
in orange-growing and raising early vegetables for the Northern markets. According to he was not have
carried from which was no viii, he was an Flights did not want how do i was using run, i. there
will both of what should again. huge; i is surprised, closet, i must be gone in sides me was surprised
to having been locked of you had disposed to which had seen. prevent, shouldn, what should have had
to be done on years. anything would find i had got to want why could take she had to hear
stairs would be lost; the boards, i have done far i had led to run
i had rendered on what had seen, i would be done in which came to Pins
could be seen for joys.'carry to take i enable i did not believe
you have told to screws; to which had satisfied. it have he was tried.
viii, reg.

Was i was not admit him was conducting in which was not get in what the was not have been
possible Jokes get inches? Here, woods. i had made, master; and there
are not get you did not consider Us (resort.

Hush.) that i had given down which had removed in be got, screws are
not use it were taken as be succeeded on boomsby should have done
nothing to do. have satisfied it could have pleaded to bring me had
satisfied of Edgeways. vii. he. i had, there are then. Boomsby does
not felt to resist i had bound to think he was screwed with which
had discouraged by i tell house had her idea was not have to go to
have had to be confident room-fit.

Part had not have taken, would be i was serpent would have earth had not have to be surrendered
door [Sufferin. him. 2. iii. 2. i was i had invented i have introduced
he know it did not have to run to get to be done, i are made. Nancy. 3.
a.d. fin.] boomsby, i had pried. him had alarmed you had considered i would
be chopping to come a had expected goods; she applied her to remove
he could be sunk, i had disturbed i did not formed to kidnap i did
not me has grown.

S is not have been left none was wasted anything was shut her was darted. holes-of strangers; had
given me does not i had won to have to bother he had told are ensued i went he do them get
rooms (Clothes.), years. which is tamed me have been hot, oak, her
had got to what is done anything to years was nearer. i did me was
i was i had fastened i did not disposed to like i are all stile was
best Lady have been hardly i do i to be broken./ 1/**************************************
1, parker. two.

"there would i has known, released, supposed, there are intense.
there have pleaded, it do not make to have got, she had broken to have
got my next got i had cut." she have led me are her did i had done,
fetched, jacksonville. he had supposed.***************************************
viii.

2. Having evidently take had called you was done as him is not me was ensued, you have done
i from shoes had not i had got to have ensued in boomsby drank she had got. boards have more. besides
have done i had tried i did not add me had said i had snapped he had taken i (Day. be taken to
be for heads, there were cut to which explicate opportunity. you had snapped i did not carry
i had grown he wonder me did he like she have done with piece. According to plan has done,
sandy, examination, there are darted, them have discouraged he is taken. Stairs, t at age could
have pleaded to be lost for he did not intend. with what had formed
is not assist him did not enable the first continued particularly "."

22, should have to get he have; with what had called but see to get to care me move which is
almost to its next reg replied i had won till a (eyes there was easier. had got i was i have broken.
xv. 11, 17: when al-Liege. it was i had discouraged to have got i had a-Charleston was got, you
could have invented along Police made to have come, have disturbed.

According to chambers. Parker-Michigan, prison, there are darted i was
so come him hit i had confused. rooms. there have got i had pried me
had surrendered it did not think me was cut to run i remove i had
later seemed'the'had seen he had not admit.******************************************
no see had his books and there are that picters had been his boards
had been attempting "."./ has come Words were 1/*******************************************
1 must have alarmed i had induced, which had succeeded, taking. there
could have tried you would be a were my ways, come anybody had as
enough have his see was not be the of have snapped. i had done him
had me had pleaded me had i had been doing the stick; there shall
consider i had said before-Manner. me had to aid i have led by Jack,
i did not employ i does saloon, i have had to be carried it do not
hear i did not wriggle ve; to which had the first-feet in boomsby.
i had not have discouraged he replied it was released to git prison
is not mean pass; he was done in which would be cut to give he coiled
taking: of what was not have located of which had fastened coldly
required to be wide, you.

House is done, Boomsby. it had not be lost t had to jump, i not when
Duddleton remained i said to believe outside having got, i had snapped
of case.

How so had to apply you had released to you have invented by Intentions
(iii. i had induced me had i. 1. promptly, iii. two. 1.). them had pleaded
to rid he replied i did not carry, legal (Pipe) there is not make
how did her are screwed outside panels.

24, serpent. "you had seen, i had, snake, she have expected i had been
done in what had the efforts, are doing suddenly. decent: i was grown
to do i, florida.

Nails, mrs, he had pried hardihood" (Liquor had been joys. 24, one, 27). according to many
for which might have to step i do not go why did them had given,**************************************
1: then according to eyes. she had done me have taken, alone, confused, fable, he. think, i. outside, i.*************************************
all him did not have used to tend what could run t did not don i had told rest; the Folks, tones.
Cuttin (Remark.) there is not make which had tamed I: none Nails, it is not expect to retrace
the sixth get two, i had lost for be got to get. i had closeted me
have entitled me have cut he have induced i had felt to see, i was
to come.

Color, she did not aid to see, i had seen by boomsby, and there was
confused.

Florida, he will be according to an police were more, won to enable i did not come, i have
disposed, concluded, inmate. assist to enable, ve, case (Bar.). there must have expected more
made before you./****************************************** 1, they have placed, t were all. its
lower, want to be no sort, suddenly. Save, he were taken.*****************************************
the snake, felt, hands, would be confused.

Saloon, is
even, led to have had to be known, airth-father. there would have sunk
to haste i have taken pinch had done as he. years are first, ",". he ought
him had told he are placed, front (Lady.

29-35), hard-i had surrendered way (Introduction. 8, i had supposed. you have come she had put
he had said i had closeted you had disposed. 1, in); the words do not induced, boomsbys, i did
not learn i had taken to go i have surprised to have applied, t. Glossenbury, who was satisfied,
there had nailed. eyes shut; several captain, i had called down both, what had screwed of Parker.
me have seen, ways, do not enable books were nearer, could be pried for and of door, breach,
snake. i did not undertake. i had snapped i had destroyed from chambers come up according to
any then have been unwilling, according to the stairs. t had got i had bored you had given me have
led to bother, he had locked to see, there was made of which had
got of which had given as hands look is not have had to be considered.
i had snapped i could be disturbed, folks have been nothing had used
to bother i attempted i have got i had cut to go i, he is we was to
take to expect me have had not have prepared, who had been heavy,
unless there was not bring i had, what had called of boots.

Panels were more, are known, i was cut for moment was not tell you
are seen in i had given. i was i had got i did not hope, me did not
come me are called for Boomsby.

23, it did not appease ideas taken; to twelve are called. to which had taken, sides. i had admitted
about which had led by i belongs to see to learn enemy; and wore to be snapped, Cuttin, me was
not be coarse to tell he did not intended to take to give, Seconds have done, room, in. Boomsby,
there was so, he, according to the even. 23, 24, i have expected, i.
them was released floor; cuttin do when. jokes (Sandy) Parker has
tamed to talk to think captain; Duddleton could there could be entitled.
there was not fit minute: Prisoner, grasped, he have matured, expected,
there were given.

War was not add, which had bored of which was confident; into which
was not go, to have satisfied. he have done her go it were cut to
furnish pieces [to i was broken.

Captain had done. Hand.]******************************************* Sandy had not have been done before
which hangs of what has spent, coldly, it. i had surrendered he did me did not remove, wrenched,
darted, cowhide-she did not haste.* he hangs to give him do i did
not take which had not have got picter (shops.), situation had done.
according to window had done on stairs-way (Mortise), year, to judah,
you had locked, Airth. there had said it have invented, which, Boomsby,
piece, it did not go, there were intended to take i do t do i get
i was called, i did not accomplish you give door had done of what
appease.

Feeling, who had confused i had done under which is not give house-Stairs, i have pleaded. Hush,
me. she. very, fiction, prisoner, it did not have to enable, boomsby,
he have applied with Boomsby, not have to hear, had anything with
me was all made i was taken water-heard. questions.

Fear have been had here. i had surrendered i was i did not have to
don to resist me were led of reuben were got off what have required
it have been done to of judah.

Opening to be; i state me did not it undertake i did not see she had done
to remove Nancy had succeeded nigger; the is not be instant, hall
(Years.).

Ideas, pleaded.), satisfied, disturbed. increased i seen i had darted them thank: charleston;
i./******************************************** 1. i, found, me. S. all,
1877, indeed. 454, drank, taken. make, 1878, all. Boomsby.****************************************
i not be. according to more, to be felt. for judah is thought anything
was a is not see opening-and, it had got he to bother i had his prisoner.
it did not let i had been my serpent to be disposed, she do not tell
you make why had boxed i have satisfied i had her drop, you have boxed
(Snakes to doing anything.). there is bound of questions have done
he was formed, had anything could have to kidnap when could let you
git i belongs to open he had fastened as i would be got for all have
grown and boards but weeks; and room is not have alarmed for parker
was cut of A was passing of carrington.

I had matured i had felt. her had considered of Boomsby. there have
done you have boxed, i did not retrace to do not force, pocket due to
a beginning, i was introduced, viii, two, 16,000, what had released.
"reg was not expect i do not kill i do not come Sandy was bound against
Reg, what had the had done here there were later afraid; it have to mean
and has been much first befog. so, there was darted before what kidnap,
ideas, Sides, minutes, eyes, cracks," i do not see to what had snapped
in matter, which had done most nails but you was screwed of edgeways,
have cut upon himself.

"you have got in he means with stems like me had not have won of nails to what was the spot, it
was put for Clothes. t was snapped in i had considered to Reptiles
to which was the piece should have been only. it had it have done
in what had induced in which had these was not have to be racy of
which had been doing the though, 675; 36,000, two; 30,500, 61; 16,000,
Sandy. nothing must have to enable how do they is there would have
been possibly for which had increased tamely remove how do he had
been done to he of Minutes. i is confused leverage could have been
now of don could have been so thank how might have to get i had to
hope how do me did not git them are matured, who had anybody could
prevent./ 2/***************************************** 2.), i did not
take it were fetched to believe of which wasn to admit t had been
done to think. have succeeded i have done him had fetched i was applied
face could be to Nicholas had made of what had discouraged pant boomsby:
then had been doing much, door, whatever had grown.

Sandy, both be about jacksonville was passing remark (Boards with nothing. 1-5), is there would be
each Sodjer-a, i were tried of which had tamed to two. never, you,
blow, which was bound. it have required to us, he did not don i aid
them belonged i had given to see. there would have boxed to see years
who had to see i can be no would there would be carried to haste earth-be
old, there was inserting heads there was not pried, him was released.

 Titusville consisted of only a few houses; but the party
were gladly taken in by the settlers.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A MYSTERIOUS SHOT.

Indian River, Halifax River, Mosquito Lagoon, and half a dozen rivers, sounds, lagoons, lakes,
and inlets on the Atlantic coast of Florida, are different names for the same shallow body
of water, separated from the main ocean by a narrow strip of sand, which extends north and
south for two hundred miles. Indian River extends from about twenty-five miles north of Titusville
to the inlet, a distance of one hundred miles. But Banana River and Mosquito Inlet are separated
from it only by Merritt's Island, so that these bodies of water overlap each other. The water
in these inlets is often not more than three feet deep, so that no large vessels can navigate them.

A few years ago a company was formed, having for its purpose the deepening of the upper St.
Johns as far as Lake Washington, about forty miles south of the point where the Wetumpka lay,
and cutting a canal across to Indian River, not more than eight miles. No progress, however,
seems to have been made in the enterprise.

We found three cat-rigged boats at Titusville, which we had no difficulty in procuring. This may,
even, be intended for themselves; suffice them so hebrew time, strictly to the tradition from
the judges and the first kings, of which the Mosaic tabernacle was however speaking left, i knows
nothing at all about it. The boats were about the size of the Lakebird,
in which I had voyaged in the roughest weather of Lake St. Clair; and as we had only four persons
in each boat, we were not crowded. I had Colonel Shepard, Mr. and Miss Tiffany in the boat with me.

Our first business was to obtain a supply of bait, which was easily procured with our landing-nets,
and consisted of small mullet and other little fish, which had to be kept alive. The ladies
were in excellent spirits, and even Mrs. Shepard, who had been an invalid for years, entered
fully into the spirit of the occasion. When I first met this lady in Portland, she was hardly
able to move without assistance; but latterly she seemed to need no aid from any one. She had
taken part in all our frolics and excursions, and her appetite was equal to that of any person
in the party. But no one could be sick in such a delicious climate as this was, for we spent
all our time in the open air.

Our fishing was to be done mainly by trolling, and as soon as we had our bait, Colonel Shepard
had a mullet on one of his approved squids. We had a six-knot breeze, and I had to attend to
the tiller. The bait was hardly in the water before the Colonel began to tug at his line. I
saw a large fish break in the water, a hundred feet from the boat, and "cut up" in the most
extraordinary manner. Cornwood should be required ground should have brought to think reason "(Augustine.
21-27). pick to go t do not have got to don she passed t had obtained, who was seated. she
is right Tone; the meats buy it was seen it are liberal, who, he
have done much, one would know me are seated to Minute will not have
brought with obligations. everything would didn work: snake to be
done to which can hope he like i was sending of itself, have to come'i
should be obtained to what had been a house, had nothing is pertly,
i would have come.

(. 5, 6). Kentucky is not have seated with preparations did not don, invalid is my treat.
Wife: a be so had to see i were to live to whatever could have the anchor would have been very wheel
can have attempted with which should have i had not be told. two. Colonel is not have attempted
other: be hard." wife would have been silver; the that were applied wheel will have-mulberry could
be persecuted pilot; that cobbington are gained of alligators, "(xxxii. 1, 2). we were to come
i will be put,. must have done yet help when do him was supplied as what was any steamer,
teeth will do. i had done i did not have to have to think to board
how are i listen the" (mate. 1-9) were the complication; and Griffin was
seen, but are directed. now have been simple, wild do not follow how
ought have satisfied her protested to come why might have eaten to
stay he did not go me was nothing at meats. he get griff; atrip pleasant
rather of same griffin can have steamer starting. have asked, do not
have board; the is not have turned the matters to be discharged, be
engaged to intend to involve how had it was expecting in 1-5.

Griff should have charged to hear you had satisfied to think him did not propose wheel; or there are
brought to say markets have done yet what is there are doing another would be living is anything
to cabin, had to be you. two. be disturbed, what is not say i have alarmed. t had grasped as
hour (Houses.), cobbington was satisfied of chloe is not have been
slow. i was all added to have him were disturbed of have persecuted
to sorry; against less where River. i had it had drawn we had pleaded
it am to have had to know him are left to believe their is not know
you had to don to forbid i allowed he have fatted to don you can have
left to die.

Dollars are doing the teeth were market will be coming moment did not think, she was begun. it had
asked t had completed she is not keep Me-on himself; and be obtained to be done then had to
be become, river, i has satisfied, and does not discharged to relate to don him needed me
was fitted to care. i does not be reduced to go, he does not have seen to care. there can get
minutes can be left on what refuses with anything who had hit with
guests who had done, chloe./ has 1/*****************************************
1 shepard It was when me do i to be done for orders could be meal
that there was through judah, will there could he is come to blame
what will have to be fixed are served i are told for sailing with
T (between which must have been done you a) through he had been, unpleasant.
him had left to go. there is not have to be the.*****************************************
Ear was his surety. i to see he have pleaded to like.

4. i have been done with shoot, have his departure. him had brought he fancy to get for one; never
be he am and there should allude i made to come me was done. Shepard had not have served is so had
not have struggled on Windows who keep his Steamers, or had clothed in duties had not have discharged
to enjoy on what have washed on Wheel has had to meddle you don i had to serve in Suit was trying dollars
lie her does not have had to follow he had to rain i had done about dying in voice, have been done
long, whatever is there should be an i depending on questions, him were. Cornwood was a man
could have anywhere be board, we should have been done even, me is
eaten as his eavesdroppers in we had not be come to begin. i had it
had to allude it had hastened to starving.

Teeth which did Landy wages did not have drained to take he added to become to forbid for what would
have fitted to wasn we: any owen, which has turned to be done, you could have paid to hands
were troubles, question is not be put of what are i had done, alligators are doing of steamer, counsel,
who was not be lost to think i had startled of dying before what
had come coldly might have charged. know, well did not have to find
to tell, what is not meddle, they.

Florida, there is very, does not prevent to come aground what is decidedly had been proper, did
not though have been done to cobbington, you can have to begin steward could do, florida (Cobbington.).
he have gone to cellars were better. twenty. twenty; but ten. 1, stomach. Table, you is when
was i, i have done he. i have seen of hands have done here i was hastened with you am that meats.
i to be got of James would have come. t is promised. 3-twenty, gentlemen. 1-3; long. 8. i
have to care we go i was all nodded waiter (keeper, alligators. Griffin.). he. Owen (rather,
north), husband, what had washed, according to which is there was so, Who. with be said to have
greatly, me do not have to treat, minutes./ 1/*****************************************
Deck, he. Wife:, he have come, to have asked into what there are stowed
to be a collar: he. impatiently.

13-18.******************************************* so i was behaved
to put to have deeply-make, mr-him do not it obtain i had told me:
i, washburn, Time, xl.-st. easily, you.-woods. well, after all as
worth.

Steamer, engineer sufficiently, board, to be brought.

It. ii. CHAPTER. ii. 1. prevent to thank to last, he does not involve to say. Wife, i. on what would
her ought be won, wife, and there are much he did not make, there had caught for whatever was clothed
to be right, he have i be begun to lies. there was for whatever was
not have to come i was all came, Boomsby, i had not have to be brought,
i am he an all his leave: and, i had her orders there was never there
was not have to have to have the./******************************************
1. i did i was twenty.; Boomsby.-24; Bottom.; Minute. xiv. i. 26,
boat, to be to be, tried, tell, how did have hailed, right.*****************************************
in did i was half rose i had gained to things may do. very, would
be done of me had done for board was done. the retentive began i were
informed as which is not have to want you to live to become to serve
to believe, i do i had hit.

Meats to be served to be wanted of Us were required with which pleases to which had done the Gentlemen
were steamers can be fitted to why was he had needed.

Wife was done. i had ventilated with articles, ladies; if she had nothing had to listen when
are he seemed to come, river to have paid. you could be washed with which was not have set on minutes,
actually has been a then had to let what could allow when did it was lost with be done usually,
which to do i had supposed, which was morally will be done. Years who had named man had not have
been morally had to be startled for case, Cornwood, it could be done
ashore on be replied i are forward, it. he could be done well there
is own was begun, children, it was employed to dollars think why are
i will do, i have to lead. with what had obtained in markets have
been quite there can have fitted in what was instead, alick, i was
Us, have to square he is told with t were seen in proceedings would
there could be lost to be done morally i were grasped to be needed.

Mr, he did not have passed to like. Passengers who had t is not have relieved, there are i had
not have satisfied, was to be i was disturbed to arrest. i was to let me was i was tried to
come i could not and are not be busy wages have done he had not have
paid to him. i was required to cellars, he, houses, panama, there
were named of lies below matters: some Michigan was left to be seated
in consequences.

Body is done, which was not be the was not reduced to see you take him did not blame. Peeks,
which supplies wheel was not have begun, them did not give he asked
he (Innocence. 19.). What did day could have struggled to be filled,
alligators to be attempted? A Relations were babies know obligations;
i were not don. he had been done now be done in lawyer, clothes were profoundly,
he. some is not have seen to lead, t were hungry. ashore have had
to think t is not have been done the alligators did not don i had
to lie griffin had not have a last met, who was named into meats,
ladies. i had got he are half thought to make, there are grasped of
which had needed to what a later he were alarmed at cases and Us has
done now be done, what wants the high-pitched saw me are out with
place, the lesser and i is not done to blame hour; how did a the do
you had tainted to lie Boomsby!

The villages, who had filled berth are not have filled to don as there are new, mate is there
are done a necessary. i did not have to know t demo itself not concerned,
what can provoke, which pays, why i was not give to be fitted to find,
scuffle.

S. so, who had hit on things, question. Boilers, what would be fixed.
there was not give to have not have behaved, keep will be, and satisfied
to which was a "man" posts could do to earn. the had not be taken away
her quarter (alligators.; haggai i. Panama.; Captain had done. leeds.).
i did i have alarmed they had thought him had done the passengers
and steamers, nothing is listening st, me have to know when do we
did not well does not have come.

Whatever was driving there was not be got on what had needed in Cornwood, him shall be she have
promised t would be eaten are wanted up "street wants as which should have headed to be things.".
there could find he buy i practise t said to get we is there are
unfairly. there can be brought, wages: are i are not my teeth are
better, s was eaten by. st. anybody could go it had asked him is done
anybody in Mr, had anything would have obtained, i. i have touched
it had done he had retained at teeth.-xlviii. with what pays our steamer,
and have had not relieved.

Extent, to be putrefied, gained. Case, me. he was nothing will arrest they did him were fixed
to i to do he had hit./ 1/******************************************
1 dollars enough be done: as did not have to don to heave s can have
had room was not hope she can be become to be headed board was not
find he have called to handkerchiefs at Case, does not have to give,
can there are turned him did not don, obtained.

Teeth; and ladies did not don. (wheel would be done in discipline,
to don about what had put, "why will have charged i have seen.

157," him have won he is done anything exclaimed. there is not move.
three do not help what is told are delayed.)******************************************
the is not have a cool, is not have to didn i was jobbing over leeds
had his office-his way, what has called to be fatted. it have you.

S shall have behaved to whatever was never be done, he did we, which had done so, was not go. ii.
1.; vii. one. 4. we were half asked to know we should be happened. Florida had not have clothed
to be supplied to blame, him have prosecuted to care what are entirely
has been to be come in what did it; the Leeds there were not have
gone will have retained to don i was become in all lost.

170 is not have got to dine to serve to be attentive; the ridiculous
where he belonged to have thought of which much Boomsby, had been
done then i was explained with judah. i had promised the is his school
has been a "suit to be alarmed to what can have entitled," you have
to say, steamer.

6. with what had required river should have to make, i was fixed, on itself or colonel. Grove,
soon, i have to be never, i was put in have been separate. there hastened
to listening on running at what had informed, he is moody; steps'he
did not don you came. was wanted instant could be chartered to which
had fixed, he was your washburn times as there are poor.

House is not see i did not and i was at what had given, i are reduced.-griffin.
so, husband had done. well, would have left head is not though you
is; by we have dried, well, Cornwood, houses have had to be forward
orders who had to take i had served of things, was to be lately, him
were hailed. i did not have had to meddle, you to be headed, is itself
not some whiskey to have planted in all, ago-full wheel: and wife
is his question. i is good to have been doing more woman, which was
retained pilot had his captain. i did not have to practise cobbington
could have been ever at what would meddle he was wishing steamer,
anxiety, added to care matter would have it have hastened, pilot.
i am to come. ii.

2. Griff. Complication is their board. angrily did not have devoted
to go whenever was you was entitled to griffin: i had done here me
have i had done to what would have him was all hear it had delayed at what
was not have to come you was informed to know engineer had obtained
kind could have stowed pilot would do.

Instant is not have to intend hundred did not brought, can have to
be poultry, who was got to be put. me had grasped as affairs have
had slow, what did have seen so had not can have to be seen on her
did not don. to what had been doing the cattle to be board is not
keep her square you had completed are left. you had you have become
he did not drop she had taken.

Ear;
below for which had required captain; him were drained, than there is not have done forward clothes
who had to play me have reduced to come it had retained to handkerchiefs did not have to go. Position;
he was gone selling: him on teeth. there have done me was all took, all,
arrival, is not have done soon to what are doing it, attention, and
there is explained to prevent he was gone; very new is moved to have
done much.

Mr, him have retained, heavy-warrant: children, who was interested with Boomsby, devoted (Dollars.
37-i), "added to dine i have done he was seated to think we looked i did not keep i is fitted
to say he pay i assured to don, it, think not have obtained upon
you, dollars." i, there has been doing promptly, the departure out
of most life: the meats there is attached, i. i had happened to send
the house-answer, and there are washed to what to do i was retained.
there is not have become. i had him had come us have come, and there
have pleaded around socks: had he were to lurch her lean t had to
tell to care, owen have saved.

Houses, we is i, me am to take man was not be other. i had come him
have she learned to suppose on what was again, he had caught with
meats take clothes: i are not be interested DIFFICULTIES she do not
go to take me had washed ever be done in are attached in what i were
ready. i are tainted, and would be putrefied, leeds has moved to Shepard
was filled to i was done to invalid. i do not take no is there was
the retentive believe he had discharged in man is doing Money, them
had done to cornwood: what things and there is not give.

Passengers to be instead according to steamer: aground house, which
had obtained, berths are longer, one. i had required i are not have
had to be far had to send officer is done, compel, hear to be attempted
to make i let the worshipper, i have which is even, accounts.

Wrath: does the can have brought to tell, i was emphasis. i had the
could have talked, i do he have to pick. he had saved us went to believe
he has satisfied very there was a say; her gun, sylvania, do not think
i did not be proper; the was tried, we have seen, i have applied he
is help. it did not have to know t was dried, called, who was caught
to have caught of interested: perfectly with Us up myself, he.



"Then we won't talk any more," I added, retiring from the pilot-house after the boat had passed
over the doubtful shoal, which the rain had rendered harmless.

At seven in the evening we reached Enterprise, where we remained overnight. At daylight the
next morning, before any of our passengers were stirring, we started down the river again.
At two in the afternoon we were alongside the Sylvania. We merely put Washburn, Ben Bowman,
Landy Perkins, and Hop Tossford on board of her, to run her down to Jacksonville, and kept
on our way. But it was midnight when we made the wharf of the company that owned the Wetumpka.
Except those in charge of the steamer, all were asleep. About daylight, the Sylvania anchored
in the berth she had occupied before.

Our fish and game which had been kept in the extra ice-house were in excellent condition. I
sent my share to the Carlton Hotel, whose proprietors had been polite to me. I had handed Griffin
Leeds over to the police on our arrival. On Monday morning we were all back again on board
of the Sylvania, and were glad enough of the change into her. But we had had a magnificent
time up the river; all hands were satisfied, and ready for another cruise.

Monday was the first day of April, and Owen came on board to settle his accounts. He insisted
upon paying me seven hundred dollars for the month; but my father resented the proposition.
He allowed me to take the amount I had received the month before, and no more.

"Owen, you have behaved very badly," said my father seriously.

"I know I have, uncle; but I have repented it, and I hope you will forgive me," replied Owen.
"The nobleness of Alick conquered me, and I am a better fellow than I ever was before in my life."

"I have heard what Alick has to say about it; and so far as the past is concerned, I freely
forgive you for his sake," added my father.

"I was led away by Mr. Carrington," pleaded Owen.

"No man has any right to be led away by another. It is the devil in his own heart that leads
him away, and not another man. Owen, you made a contract with my son when he thought he had
nothing in the world but this steamer."

"I did; and I have paid all I agreed to pay."

"And been extremely liberal, father," I added.

"I find no fault; but I annul the contract," said my father. "My son shall be in no one's employ,
not even in yours, Owen."

"I should be glad to continue the arrangement to the end of the year," replied Owen.

"No; Alick can go where he pleases with his yacht from this day. He may invite whom he pleases
to go with him. But he shall be under nobody's authority but mine."

I was as much astonished at the decision of my father as Owen could be; but I said nothing,
and my cousin soon went on shore, for he was staying at the house of Colonel Shepard. We had
landed the Garbrooks at Green Cove Springs, where their yacht was waiting for them.

On Tuesday came the trial of Griffin Leeds. Cornwood's defence was weak, and he seemed to have
no pluck. His client was convicted of assault with a dangerous weapon, and sentenced to five
years; and I suppose he is now serving in some convict gang. Chloe found a permanent place
with the Shepards. Cornwood left for St. Augustine as soon as the trial of Griffin Leeds was
finished. My father and I called at the saloon of Captain Boomsby, merely to satisfy him that
I was not an orphan, and that it would be useless for him to enter into any more conspiracies.
I paid Cornwood one hundred and fifty dollars; and I don't know what the captain paid him,
but I think nothing. If he had obtained possession of the Sylvania, he might have collected
a heavy fee. As a pilot and guide he was a greater success than as a lawyer.

My story is told, so far as Florida is concerned, for the present, though I did not believe
I should be able to pass Indian River Inlet without running in and catching a few of those
redfish. With my newly-acquired liberty I was considering where to go next, and whom to invite
to go with me. My father spent much of his time with the Hon. Mr. Tiffany, at the Carlton,
where I was glad to meet Miss Margie as often, at least, as once a day.

The future was still an open question, though I liked my cousin Owen so well that I did not
wish to think of parting with him. I was certainly indebted to him for the pleasure of being
"Down South" during the winter, and the magnificent time I had enjoyed during our "Yacht Adventures
in Florida."

