"She has betrayed me, then!" said Christian--"Betrayed me to bonds and death, merely for an
idle passion, which can never be successful!--But know, Zarah," he added, addressing her sternly,
"when my life is forfeited through thy evidence, the daughter has murdered the father!"

The unfortunate girl stared on him in astonishment. "You said," at length she stammered forth,
"that I was the daughter of your slaughtered brother?"

"That was partly to reconcile thee to the part thou wert to play in my destined drama of vengeance--partly
to hide what men call the infamy of thy birth. But my daughter thou art! and from the eastern
clime, in which thy mother was born, you derive that fierce torrent of passion which I laboured
to train to my purposes, but which, turned into another channel, has become the cause of your
father's destruction.--My destiny is the Tower, I suppose?"

He spoke these words with great composure, and scarce seemed to regard the agonies of his daughter,
who, throwing herself at his feet, sobbed and wept most bitterly.

"This must not be," said the King, moved with compassion at this scene of misery. "If you consent,
Christian, to leave this country, there is a vessel in the river bound for New England--Go,
carry your dark intrigues to other lands."

"I might dispute the sentence," said Christian boldly; "and if I submit to it, it is a matter
of my own choice.--One half-hour had made me even with that proud woman, but fortune hath cast
the balance against me.--Rise, Zarah, Fenella no more! Tell the Lady of Derby, that, if the
daughter of Edward Christian, the niece of her murdered victim, served her as a menial, it
was but for the purpose of vengeance--miserably, miserably frustrated!--Thou seest thy folly
now--thou wouldst follow yonder ungrateful stripling--thou wouldst forsake all other thoughts
to gain his slightest notice; and now thou art a forlorn outcast, ridiculed and insulted by
those on whose necks you might have trod, had you governed yourself with more wisdom!--But
come, thou art still my daughter--there are other skies than that which canopies Britain."

"Stop him," said the King; "we must know by what means this maiden found access to those confined
in our prisons."

"I refer your Majesty to your most Protestant jailer, and to the most Protestant Peers, who,
in order to obtain perfect knowledge of the depth of the Popish Plot, have contrived these
ingenious apertures for visiting them in their cells by night or day. His Grace of Buckingham
can assist your Majesty, if you are inclined to make the inquiry."[*]

[*] It was said that very unfair means were used to compel the
    prisoners, committed on account of the Popish Plot, to make
    disclosures, and that several of them were privately put to the
    torture.

"Christian," said the Duke, "thou art the most barefaced villain who ever breathed."

"Of a commoner, I may," answered Christian, and led his daughter out of the presence.

"See after him, Selby," said the King; "lose not sight of him till the ship sail; if he dare
return to Britain, it shall be at his peril. Would to God we had as good riddance of others
as dangerous! And I would also," he added, after a moment's pause, "that all our political
intrigues and feverish alarms could terminate as harmlessly as now. Here is a plot without
a drop of blood; and all the elements of a romance, without its conclusion. Here we have a
wandering island princess (I pray my Lady of Derby's pardon), a dwarf, a Moorish sorceress,
an impenitent rogue, and a repentant man of rank, and yet all ends without either hanging or
marriage."

