Mary disliked her stepmother, and would wander on fine days to read beside her mother's grave
in Old St. Pancras Churchyard. This girl of seventeen had a strong if rather narrow mind; she
was imperious, ardent, and firm-willed. She is said to have been very pale, with golden hair
and a large forehead, redeemed from commonplace by hazel eyes which had a piercing look. When
sitting, she appeared to be of more than average height; when she stood, you saw that she had
her father's stumpy legs. Intellectually, and by the solidity of her character, she was better
fitted to be Shelley's mate than any other woman he ever came across. It was natural that she
should be interested in this bright creature, fallen as from another world into their dingy,
squabbling family. If it was inevitable that her interest, touched with pity (for he was in
despair over the collapse of his life with Harriet), should quickly warm to love, we must insist
that the rapture with which he leaped to meet her had some foundation in reality. That she
was gifted is manifest in her writings--chiefly, no doubt, in 'Frankenstein', composed when
she had Shelley to fire her imagination; but her other novels are competent, and her letters
are the work of a vigorous intellect. She had her limitations. She was not quite so free from
conventionality as either he or she believed; but on the whole they were neither deceiving
themselves nor one another when they plighted faith by Mary Wollstonecraft's grave. With their
principles, it was nothing that marriage was impossible. Without the knowledge of the elder
Godwins, they made arrangements to elope, and on July 28, 1814, crossed from Dover to Calais
in an open boat, taking Jane Clairmont with them on the spur of the moment. Jane also had been
unhappy in Skinner Street. She was about Mary's age, a pert, olive-complexioned girl, with
a strong taste for life. She changed her name to Claire because it sounded more romantic.

Mrs. Godwin pursued the fugitives to Calais, but in vain. Shelley was now launched on a new
life with a new bride, and--a freakish touch--accompanied as before by his bride's sister.
The more his life changed, the more it was the same thing--the same plunging without forethought,
the same disregard for all that is conventionally deemed necessary. His courage is often praised,
and rightly, though we ought not to forget that ignorance, and even obtuseness, were large
ingredients in it. As far as they had any plan, it was to reach Switzerland and settle on the
banks of some lake, amid sublime mountain scenery, "for ever." In fact, the tour lasted but
six weeks. Their difficulties began in Paris, where only an accident enabled Shelley to raise
funds. Then they moved slowly across war-wasted France, Mary and Claire, in black silk dresses,
riding by turns on a mule, and Shelley walking. Childish happiness glows in their journals.
From Troyes Shelley wrote to the abandoned Harriet, in perfect good faith, pressing her to
join them in Switzerland. There were sprained ankles, dirty inns, perfidious and disobliging
drivers--the ordinary misadventures of the road, magnified a thousand times by their helplessness,
and all transfigured in the purple light of youth and the intoxication of literature. At last
they reached the Lake of Lucerne, settled at Brunnen, and began feverishly to read and write.
Shelley worked at a novel called 'The Assassins', and we hear of him "sitting on a rude pier
by the lake" and reading aloud the siege of Jerusalem from Tacitus. Soon they discovered that
they had only just enough money left to take them home. Camp was struck in haste, and they
travelled down the Rhine. When their boat was detained at Marsluys, all three sat writing in
the cabin--Shelley his novel, Mary a story called 'Hate', and Claire a story called 'The Idiot'--until
they were tossed across to England, and reached London after borrowing passage-money from the
captain.

The winter was spent in poverty, dodging creditors through the labyrinthine gloom of the town.
Chronic embarrassment was caused by Shelley's extravagant credulity. His love of the astonishing,
his readiness to believe merely because a thing was impossible, made him the prey of every
impostor. Knowing that he was heir to a large fortune, he would subsidise any project or any
grievance, only provided it were wild enough. Godwin especially was a running sore both now
and later on; the philosopher was at the beginning of that shabby 'degringolade' which was
to end in the ruin of his self-respect. In spite of his anti-matrimonial principles, he was
indignant at his disciple's elopement with his daughter, and, in spite of his philosophy, he
was not above abusing and sponging in the same breath. The worst of these difficulties, however,
came to an end when Shelley's grandfather died on January 6, 1815, and he was able, after long
negotiations, to make an arrangement with his father, by which his debts were paid and he received
an income of 1000 pounds a year in consideration of his abandoning his interest in part of
the estate.

And now, the financial muddle partly smoothed out, his genius began to bloom in the congenial
air of Mary's companionship. The summer of 1815 spent in rambles in various parts of the country,
saw the creation of Alastor. Early in 1816 Mary gave birth to her first child, a boy, William,
and in the spring, accompanied by the baby and Claire, they made a second expedition to Switzerland.
A little in advance another poet left England for ever. George Gordon, Lord Byron, loaded with
fame and lacerated by chagrin, was beginning to bear through Europe that "pageant of his bleeding
heart" of which the first steps are celebrated in 'Childe Harold'. Unknown to Shelley and Mary,
there was already a link between them and the luxurious "pilgrim of eternity" rolling towards
Geneva in his travelling-carriage, with physician and suite: Claire had visited Byron in the
hope that he might help her to employment at Drury Lane Theatre, and, instead of going on the
stage, had become his mistress. Thus united, but strangely dissimilar, the two parties converged
on the Lake of Geneva, where the poets met for the first time. Shelley, though jarred by Byron's
worldliness and pride, was impressed by his creative power, and the days they spent sailing
on the lake, and wandering in a region haunted by the spirit of Rousseau, were fruitful. The
'Hymn to Intellectual Beauty' and the 'Lines on Mont Blanc' were conceived this summer. In
September the Shelleys were back in England.

But England, though he had good friends like Peacock and the Leigh Hunts, was full of private
and public troubles, and was not to hold him long. The country was agitated by riots due to
unemployment. The Government, frightened and vindictive, was multiplying trials for treason
and blasphemous libel, and Shelley feared he might be put in the pillory himself. Mary's sister
Fanny, to whom he was attached, killed herself in October; Harriet's suicide followed in December;
and in the same winter the Westbrooks began to prepare their case for the Chancery suit, which
ended in the permanent removal of Harriet's children from his custody, on the grounds that
his immoral conduct and opinions unfitted him to be their guardian. His health, too, seems
to have been bad, though it is hard to know precisely how bad. He was liable to hallucinations
of all kinds; the line between imagination and reality, which ordinary people draw quite definitely,
seems scarcely to have existed for him. There are many stories as to which it is disputed how
far, if at all, reality is mixed with dream, as in the case of the murderous assault he believed
to have been made on him one night of wind and rain in Wales; of the veiled lady who offered
to join her life to his; of the Englishman who, hearing him ask for letters in the post-office
at Pisa or Florence, exclaimed, "What, are you that damned atheist Shelley?" and felled him
to the ground. Often he would go half frantic with delusions--as that his father and uncle
were plotting to shut him up in a madhouse, and that his boy William would be snatched from
him by the law. Ghosts were more familiar to him than flesh and blood. Convinced that he was
wasting with a fatal disease, he would often make his certainty of early death the pretext
for abandoning some ill-considered scheme; but there is probably much exaggeration in the spasms
and the consumptive symptoms which figure so excitedly in his letters. Hogg relates how he
once plagued himself and his friends by believing that he had elephantiasis, and says that
he was really very healthy The truth seems to be that his constitution was naturally strong,
though weakened from time to time by neurotic conditions, in which mental pain brought on much
physical pain, and by irregular infrequent, and scanty meals.

In February 1817 he settled at Marlow with Mary and Claire. Claire, as a result of her intrigue
with Byron--of which the fruit was a daughter, Allegra, born in January--was now a permanent
charge on his affectionate generosity. It seemed that their wanderings were at last over. At
Marlow he busied himself with politics and philanthropy, and wrote 'The Revolt of Islam'. But,
partly because the climate was unsuitable, partly from overwork in visiting and helping the
poor, his health was thought to be seriously endangered. In March 1818, together with the five
souls dependent on him--Claire and her baby, Mary and her two babies (a second, Clara, had
been born about six months before)--he left England, never to return.

Mary disliked hot weather, but it always put Shelley in spirits, and his best work was done
beneath the sultry blue of Italian skies, floating in a boat on the Serchio or the Arno, baking
in a glazed cage on the roof of a Tuscan villa, or lying among the ruins of the Coliseum or
in the pine-woods near Pisa. Their Italian wanderings are too intricate to be traced in detail
here. It was a chequered time, darkened by disaster and cheered by friendships. Both their
children died, Clara at Venice in 1818, and William at home in 1819. It is impossible not to
be amazed at the heedlessness--the long journeys in a rough foreign land, the absence of ordinary
provision against ailments--which seems to have caused the death of these beloved little beings.
The birth in 1819 of another son, Percy (who survived to become Sir Percy Shelley), brought
some comfort. Claire's troubles, again, were a constant anxiety. Shelley worked hard to persuade
Byron either to let her have Allegra or to look after his daughter properly himself; but he
was obdurate, and the child died in a convent near Venice in 1822. Shelley's association with
Byron, of whom, in 'Julian and Maddalo' (1818), he has drawn a picture with the darker features
left out, brought as much pain as pleasure to all concerned. No doubt Byron's splenetic cynicism,
even his parade of debauchery, was largely an assumption for the benefit of the world; but
beneath the frankness, the cheerfulness, the wit of his intimate conversation, beneath his
careful cultivation of the graces of a Regency buck, he was fundamentally selfish and treacherous.
Provided no serious demands were made upon him, he enjoyed the society of Shelley and his circle,
and the two were much together, both at Venice and in the Palazzo Lanfranchi at Pisa, where,
with a menagerie of animals and retainers, Byron had installed himself in those surroundings
of Oriental ostentation which it amused him to affect.

