The two places nearest to me--Fairy Glen and the Swallow Falls--which I had always hitherto
avoided on  account  of  their being the favourite haunts  of tourists--I left to the last,
because I specially desired to see them by moonlight. With regard to Fairy Glen, I had often
heard Winnie say how she used to go there by moonlight and imagine the Tylwyth Teg or the fairy
scenes of the Midsummer Night's Dream which I had told her of long ago--imagine them so vividly
that she could actually see, on a certain projecting rock in the cliffs that enclose the dell,
the figure of Titania dressed in green, with a wreath of leaves round her head. And with regard
to the Swallow Falls, I remembered only too well her telling me, on the night of the landslip,
the Welsh legend of Sir John Wynn, who died in the seventeenth century, and whose ghost, imprisoned
at the bottom of the Falls on account of his ill deeds in the flesh, was heard to shriek amid
the din of the waters. On that fatal night she told me that on certain rare occasions, when
the moon shines straight down the chasm, the wail will become an agonised shriek. I had often
wondered what natural sound this was which could afford such pabulum to my old foe, Superstition.
So one night, when the moon was shining brilliantly--so brilliantly that the light seemed very
little feebler than that of day--I walked in the direction of the Swallow Falls.

Being afraid that I should not get much privacy at the Falls, I started late. But I came upon
only three or four people on the road. I had forgotten that my own passion for moonlight was
entirely a Romany inheritance. I had forgotten that a family of English tourists will carefully
pull down the blinds and close the shutters, in order to enjoy the luxury of candlelight, lamp-light,
or gas, when a Romany will throw wide open the tent's mouth to enjoy the light he loves most
of all--'chonesko dood,' as he calls the moonlight. As I approached the Swallow Falls Hotel,
I lingered to let my fancy feast in anticipation on the lovely spectacle that awaited me. When
I turned into the wood I encountered only one person, a lady, and she hurried back to the hotel
as soon as I approached the river.

Following the slippery path as far as it led down the dell, I stopped at the brink of a pool
about a dozen yards, apparently, from the bottom, and looked up at the water. Bursting like
a vast belt of molten silver out of an eerie wilderness of rocks and trees, the stream, as
it tumbled down between high walls of cliff to the platform of projecting rocks around the
pool at the edge of which I stood, divided into three torrents, which themselves were again
divided and scattered by projecting boulders into cascades before they fell into the gulf below.
The whole seemed one wide cataract of living moonlight that made the eyes ache with beauty.

Amid the din of the water I listened for the wail which had so deeply impressed Winifred, and
certainly there was what may be described as a sound within a sound, which ears so attuned
to every note of Superstition's gamut as Winifred's might easily accept as the wail of Sir
John Wynn's ghost.

There was no footpath down to the bottom, but I descended without any great difficulty, though
I was now soaked in spray. Here the mysterious human sound seemed to be less perceptible amid
the din of the torrent than from the platform where I had stayed to listen to it. But when
I climbed up again to the spot by the mid-pool where I had originally stood, a strange sensation
came to me. My recollection of Winnie's words on the night of the landslip came upon me with
such overmastering power that the noise of the cataract seemed changed to the sound of billows
tumbling on Raxton sands, and the 'wail' of Sir John Wynn seemed changed to that shriek from
Raxton cliff which appalled Winnie as it appalled me.

The following night I passed into a moonlight as bright as that which had played me such fantastic
tricks at the Swallow Falls.

It was not until I had crossed the bridge over the Conway, and was turning to the right in
the direction of Fairy Glen, that I fully realised how romantic the moonlight was. Every wooded
hill and every precipice, whether craggy and bald or feathered with pines, was bathed in light
that would have made an Irish bog, or an Essex marsh, or an Isle of Ely fen, a land of poetry.

When I reached Pont Llyn-yr-Afange (Beaver Pool Bridge) I lingered to look down the lovely
lane on the left, through which I was to pass in order to reach the rocky dell of Fairy Glen,
for it was perfumed, not with the breath of the flowers now asleep, but with the perfume I
love most of all, the night's floating memory of the flowery breath of day.

Suddenly I felt some one touching my elbow. I turned round. It was Rhona Boswell. I was amazed
to see her, for I thought that all my Gypsy friends, Boswells, Lovells, and the rest, were
still attending the horse-fairs in the Midlands and Eastern Counties.

'We've only just got here,' said Rhona; 'wussur luck that we got here at all. I wants to get
back to dear Gypsy Dell and Rington Wood; that's what I wants to do.'

'Where is the camp?' I asked.

'Same place, twix Bettws and Capel Curig.'

She had been to the bungalow, she told me, with a message from Sinfi. This message was that
she particularly wished to meet me at Mrs. Davies's cottage--'not at the bungalow'--on the
following night.

'She'll go there to-morrow mornin',' said Rhona, 'and make things tidy for you; but she won't
expect you till night, same time as she met you there fust. She's got a key o' the door, she
says, wot you gev her.'

I was not so surprised at Sinfi's proposed place of meeting as I should have been had I not
remembered her resolution not to return to the bungalow, and not to let me return to the camp.

'You must be sure to go to meet her at the cottage to-morrow night, else you'll be too late.'

'Why too late?' I asked.

'Well,' said Rhona, 'I can't say as I knows why ezackly. But I know she's bin' an' bought beautiful
dresses at Chester, or somewheres,--an' I think she's goin' to be married the day arter to-morrow.'

'Married to whom?'

'Well, I can't say as I rightly knows,' said Rhona.

'Do you know whether Mr. Cyril is in Wales?' I asked.

'Yes,' said Rhona, 'him and the funny un are not far from Capel Curig. Now I come to think
on't, it's mose likely Mr. Cyril as she's a-goin' to marry, for I know it ain't no Romany chal.
It can't be the funny un,' added she, laughing.

'But where's the wedding to take place?'

'I can't say as I knows ezackly,' said Rhona; 'but I thinks it's by Knockers' Llyn if it ain't
on the top o' Snowdon.'

'Good heavens, girl!' I said. 'What on earth makes you think that? That pretty little head
of yours is stuffed with the wildest nonsense. I ran make nothing out of you, so good-night.
Tell her I'll be there.'

And I was leaving her to walk down the lane when I turned back and said, 'How long has Sinfi
been at the camp?'

'On'y jist come. She's bin away from us for a long while,' said Rhona.

And then she looked as if she was tempted to reveal some secret that she was bound not to tell.

'Sinfi's been very bad,' she went on, 'but she's better now. Her daddy says she's under a cuss.
She's been a-wastin' away like, but she's better now.'

'So it's Sinfi who is under a curse now,' I said to myself. 'I suppose Superstition has at
last turned her brain. This perhaps explains Rhona's mad story.'

'Does anybody but you think she's going to be married?' I asked her. 'Does her father think so?'

'Her daddy says it ain't Sinfi as is goin' to be married; but I think it's Sinfi! An' you'll
know all about it the day arter to-morrow.' And she tripped away in the direction of the camp.

Lost in a whirl of thoughts and speculations, I turned into Fairy Glen. And now, below me,
lay the rocky dell so dearly beloved by Winnie; and there I walked in such a magic web of light
and shade as can only be seen in that glen when the moon hangs over it in a certain position.

I descended the steps to the stream and sat down for a time on one of the great boulders and
asked myself if this was the very boulder on which Winnie used to sit when she conjured up
her childish visions of fairyland. And by that sweet thought the beauty of the scene became
intensified. There, while the unbroken torrent of the Conway--glittering along the narrow gorge
of the glen between silvered walls of rock as upright as the turreted bastions of a castle--seemed
to flash a kind of phosphorescent light of its own upon the flowers and plants and sparsely
scattered trees along the sides, I sat and passed into Winifred's own dream, and the Tylwyth
Teg, which to Winnie represented Oberon and Titania and the whole group of fairies, swept before
me.

Awaking from this dream, I looked up the wall of the cliff to enjoy one more sight of the magical
beauty, when there fell upon my eyes, or seemed to fall, a sight that, though I felt it must
be a delusion, took away my breath. Standing on a piece of rock that was flush with one of
the steps by which I had descended was a slender girlish figure, so lissom that it might have
been the famous 'Queen of the Fair People.'

'Never,' I said to myself, 'was there an optical illusion so perfect. I can see the moonlight
playing upon her hair. But the hair is not golden, as the hair of the Queen of the Tylwyth
Teg should be; it is dark as Winnie's own.'

Then the face turned and she looked at the river, and then I exclaimed 'Winifred!' And then
Fairy Glen vanished and I was at Raxton standing by a cottage door in the moonlight. I was
listening to a voice--that one voice to whose music every chord of life within me was set for
ever, which said,

'I should have to come in the winds, and play around you on the sands. I should have to peep
over the clouds and watch you. I should have to follow you about wherever you went.'

The sight vanished. Although I had no doubt that what I had seen was an hallucination, when
I moved farther on and stood and gazed at the stream as it went winding round the mossy cliffs
to join the Lledr, I felt that Winnie was by my side, her hand in mine, and that we were children
together. And when I mounted the steps and strolled along the path that leads to the plantation
where the moonlight, falling through the leaves, covered the ground with what seemed symbolical
arabesques of silver and grey and purple, I felt the pressure of little fingers that seemed
to express 'How beautiful!' And when I stood gazing through the opening in the landscape, and
saw the rocks gleaming in the distance and the water down the Lledr valley, I saw the sweet
young face gazing in mine with the smile of the delight that illumined it on the Wilderness
Road when she discoursed of birds and the wind.

The vividness of the vision of Fairy Glen drove out for a time all other thoughts. The livelong
night my brain seemed filled with it.

       'My eyes are made the fools o' the other senses,
       Or else worth all the rest,'

I said to myself as I lay awake. So full, indeed, was my mind of this one subject that even
Rhona's strange message from Sinfi was only recalled at intervals. While I was breakfasting,
however, this incident came fully back to me. Either Rhona's chatter about Sinfi's reason for
wanting to see me was the nonsense that had floated into Rhona's own brain, the brain of a
love-sick girl to whom everything spelt marriage--or else poor Sinfi's mind had become unhinged.

II

