The Revolution was fought, but even before the surrender the minds of America's statesmen were
actively considering peace terms. Both Richard Henry Lee and Thomas Jefferson suggested that
the valuable fisheries off Newfoundland be freely open to American ships. This time it was
not a question of the Northern Colony keeping the Southern Colony out as it had been 150 years
before. Thomas Jefferson, writing in 1778, wanted the United Colonies to exclude England:

    If they [Britain] really are coming to their senses at last, and it
    should be proposed to treat of peace, will not Newfoundland
    fisheries be worthy particular attention to exclude them and all
    others from them except our très grand and chers amis and
    allies? Their great value to whatever nation possesses them is as a
    nursery for seamen. In the present very prosperous situation of our
    affairs, I have thought it would be wise to endeavor to gain a
    regular and acknowledged access in every court in Europe but most
    the Southern. The countries bordering on the Mediterranean I think
    will merit our earliest attention. They will be the important
    markets for our great commodities of fish, wheat, tobacco, and
    rice.

Lee saw how fishing in Northern waters had started America on its way to being a maritime power.
In a series of letters to George Mason and others he expresses his opinions forcibly:

    Our news here is most excellent; both from Williamsburg and from
    Richmond it comes that our countrymen have given the enemy in the
    South a complete overthrow.... Heaven grant it may be so. I shall
    then with infinite pleasure congratulate my friend on the recovery
    of his property, and our common country on so great a step towards
    really putting a period to the war. I think that in this case we
    may insist on our full share of the fishery, and the free
    navigation of the Mississippi. These are things of very great and
    lasting importance to America, the yielding of which will not
    procure the Congress thanks either from the present age or
    posterity.

    I rejoice greatly at the news from South Carolina. God grant it may
    be true. If this should force the enemy to reason and to peace,
    would you give up the navigation of the Mississippi and our
    domestic fishery on the Banks of Newfoundland? The former almost
    infinitely depreciating our back country and the latter totally
    destroying us as a maritime power. That is taking the name of
    independence without the means of supporting it.

    I rejoice exceedingly at our successes both in the North and in the
    South. If we continue to do thus, it will not be in the power of
    the execrable junto to prevent us from having a safe and honorable
    peace next winter. In this idea I shall ever include the fisheries
    and the navigation of the Mississippi. These, Sir, are the strong
    legs on which North America can alone walk securely in
    independence.

    If you do not get a wise and very firm friend to negotiate the
    fishery, it is my clear opinion that it will be lost, and upon this
    principle that it is the interest of every European power to weaken
    us and strengthen themselves.

    I heartily wish you success in your negotiations and that when you
    secure one valuable point for us (the fishery) that you will not
    less exert yourself for another very important object,--the free
    navigation of the Mississippi, provided guilty Britain should
    remain in possession of the Floridas.

Fishing as a matter of states' rights resulted in the pioneering Potomac River Compact of 1785,
when representatives of Maryland and Virginia met under George Washington's sponsorship at
Mt. Vernon to deal with fishing and tolls. Maryland owned the river to the Virginia shore line,
and agreed to allow Virginians to fish in it in return for free entry of Maryland ships through
the Virginia capes. The compact, in force to this day, was the first step taken in behalf of
interstate commerce. With its example to follow, other states eased the barriers to their commercial
interests, with immeasurable benefit to the Union.

Commercial fishing in Virginia was, as the century closed, on the verge of the stability it
had sorely lacked. Its reliance on Indians for knowledge and skill, as in the first of the
17th century, was as dead as its reliance on England for manufactures in the last of the 18th.
Just around the corner were railroads and steamboats with their comparatively swift transportation.
Teeming cities needed to be fed, and after nearly two centuries of education in the ways of
the Chesapeake Bay and its marine life, Virginia fishermen knew how to keep the markets stocked.
In 1794 a French visitor, Moreau de Saint Méry, wrote:

    Fish is the commodity that sells for a ridiculously low price in
    Norfolk. One can purchase weakfish weighing more than twenty pounds
    for 4 or 5 francs and sometimes one that weighs three times more
    for a gourde, 5 francs, 10 sous. Drum is also very cheap. Sturgeon,
    weighing up to 60 pounds, can be bought for 6 French sous a pound,
    about the same price paid for little codfish that are brought in
    alive and are delicious to eat. Shad is also plentiful there. In
    addition, one can get perch, porpoise, eels, leatherjackets, summer
    flounder, turbot, mullet, trout, blackfish, herring, sole, garfish,
    etc. In short, fish is so abundant in Norfolk that sometimes the
    police find it necessary to throw back into the water those that
    are not bought.

Herring fishing began to be abandoned by the planters, many of whom were up to their necks
in a variety of enterprises, in favor of business men intending to specialize. Letters from
a Virginia speculator, John F. Mercer, to Richard Sprigg, sketch the situation:

    April 19, 1779. To cure fish properly requires two days in the
    brine before packing and they can only lie packed with safety in
    dry weather. These circumstances joined with the heading and
    drawing almost all the fish (a very tedious operation) will show
    that no time was lost--only 9 days elapsed from his arrival here to
    his completing his load of 15,000 herrings, a time beyond which
    many wagons have waited on these shores for 4,000 uncured fish and
    many have been obliged to return without one, after coming 40 and
    50 miles and offering 2 and 5 dollars a thousand. Several indeed
    from my own shore and six who want 36,000 herring will, I believe,
    quit this night without a fish, after waiting all this storm on the
    shore five days.

    Mr. Clarke has had his fish completed two days.... He has been
    delayed by the almost continual storm that has prevailed since his
    arrival and which has ruined us fishermen.

    My fishery has been miserably conducted from the beginning as might
    be expected from my entire ignorance and the penury of my partner
    who was poorer than myself.... Still I have expectations that it
    may turn out an immense thing from the trial we have made. The
    shores being opposite to Maryland Point, the reach above and below
    with the mouths of the two creeks on this side form a sweep, both
    tides upon them, that must collect for fish; and they are kept in
    by a kind of pound on the Virginia shore's trend. There apparent
    advantages accord with the experiment for, with a desperate
    patched-up seine that always breaks with a good haul, we have
    contrived to land 20,000 a day, every day we can haul. We are
    nearer to the Fredericksburg and Falmouth Virginia markets than any
    shore that is or can be opened on the river by 10 miles
    notwithstanding every discouragement and particularly the activity
    and lies practiced against us by the Little Creek fisheries on each
    side, who must fail with our success.

    April 10, 1795. Herrings they tell me are 10 shillings per thousand
    at all the shores. If I had your lease I could make a fortune. I
    have a great mind to send Pollard and George up for your small boat
    and seine.... If Peyton comes down with his seine to haul at my
    shore, I will seine salted herrings enough for us both.

That acidulous but always colorful roving reporter from the mid-west, Anne Royall, offers the
best picture, for accuracy and detail, of hauling a seine ever presented by anyone not a technician.
Though written almost 50 years after the Revolution, it describes the kind of fishing on which
Virginians had principally depended since Christopher Newport began the Colonial era and George
Washington ended it:

    The market of Alexandria is abundant and cheap; though much
    inferior to any in any part of the western country, except beef and
    fish, which are by far superior to that of the western markets....
    Their exquisite fish, oysters, crabs, and foreign fruits upon the
    whole bring them upon a value with us.

    Their fish differ from ours, even some species. Their catfish is
    the only sort in which we excel; they have none that answer to our
    blue cat, either in size or flavor, and nothing like our mud-cat.
    Their catfish is from ten to fifteen inches in length, with a wide
    mouth, like the mud-cat of the Western waters; but their cat differ
    from both ours in substance and color; they are soft, pied black
    and white. They are principally used to make soup, which is much
    esteemed by the inhabitants. All their fish are small compared with
    ours. Besides the catfish which they take in the latter part of the
    winter, they have the rock, winter shad, mackerel, and perch, shad
    and herring. The winter shad is very fine indeed. They are like our
    perch, but infinitely smaller. These fish are sold very low; a
    large string, enough for a dozen persons, may be purchased for a
    few cents. No fish, however, that I have tasted, equal our trout.

    The Potomac at Alexandria, is rather over a mile in width; it is
    celebrated for its beauty. It is certainly a great blessing to this
    country in supplying its inhabitants with food in the article of
    fish.

    Fish is abundant (at Washington), and cheap at all seasons, shad is
    three dollars per hundred; herrings, one dollar per thousand.

