At the beginning he is accustomed to yield to the influence of his mother, whom Seneca and
Burrus thrust aside from control of affairs (chapter 3).

Nero's exhibitions of wantonness and his extravagance: the death of Silanus (chapters 4-6).

Love for Acte: Britannicus slain: discord with Agrippina (chapters 7, 8).

How Nero's mind began to give way (chapter 9).

About the faults and immoralities of the philosopher Seneca (chapter 10).

Sabina an object of love: Agrippina murdered (chapters 11-16).

Domitia put to death: festivities: Nero sings to the accompaniment of his lyre (chapters 17-21).

DURATION OF TIME.

M. Asinius Marcellus, Manius Acilius Aviola. (A.D. 54 = a.u. 807 = First of Nero, from Oct. 13th).

Nero Caesar Aug., L. Antistius Vetus. (A.D. 55 = a.u. 808 = Second of Nero).

Q. Volusius Saturninus, P. Cornelius Scipio. (A.D. 56 = a.u. 809 = Third of Nero).

Nero Caesar Aug. (II), L. Calpurnius Piso. (A.D. 57 = a.u. 810 = Fourth of Nero).

Nero Caesar Aug. (III), M. Valerius Messala. (A.D. 58 = a.u. 811 = Fifth of Nero).

C. Vipsanius Apronianus, L. Fonteius Capito. (A.D. 59 = a.u. 812 = Sixth of Nero).

Nero Caesar Aug. (IV), Cornelius Lentulus Cossus. (A.D. 60 = a.u. 813 = Seventh of Nero).

[Sidenote: A.D. 54 (a.u. 807)] [Sidenote:--1--] At the death of Claudius the leadership on
most just principles belonged to Britannicus, who had been born a legitimate son of Claudius
and in physical development was beyond what would have been expected of his years. Yet by law
the power passed to Nero on account of his adoption. No claim, indeed, is stronger than that
of arms. Every one who possesses superior force has always the appearance of both saying and
doing what is more just. So Nero, having first disposed of Claudius's will and having succeeded
him as master of the whole empire, put Britannicus and his sisters out of the way. Why, then,
should one stop to lament the misfortunes of other victims?

[Sidenote:--2--] The following signs of dominion had been observed in his career. At his birth
just before dawn rays not cast by any beam of sunlight yet visible surrounded his form. And
a certain astrologer from this and from the motion of the stars at that time and their relation
to one another divined two things in regard to him,--that he would rule and that he would murder
his mother. Agrippina on hearing this became for the moment so beside herself as actually to
cry out: "Let him kill me, if only he shall rule." Later she was destined to repent bitterly
of her prayer. Some people become so steeped in folly that if they expect to obtain some blessing
mingled with evil, they at once through their anxiety for the advantage pay no heed to the
detriment. When the time for the latter also comes, they are cast down and would choose not
to have secured even the greatest good thing. Yet Domitius, the father of Nero, had a sufficient
previous intimation of his son's coming baseness and licentiousness, not by any oracle but
through the nature of his own and Agrippina's characters. And he declared: "It is impossible
for any good man to be born from me and from her." As time went on, the finding of a serpent
skin around Nero's neck when he was but a boy caused the seers to say: "He shall acquire great
power from the aged man." Serpents are thought to slough off their old age with their old skin,
and so get power.

[Sidenote:--3--] Nero was seventeen years of age when he began to rule. He first entered the
camp, and, after reading to the soldiers all that Seneca had written, he promised them as much
as Claudius had been accustomed to give. Before the senate he read such a considerable document,--this,
too, written by Seneca,--that it was voted the statements should be inscribed on a silver tablet
and should be read every time the new consuls took up the duties of their office. Consequently
those who heard him made themselves ready to enjoy a good reign according to the letter of
the compilation. At first Agrippina [in company with Pallas, a vulgar and tiresome man,] managed
all affairs pertaining to the empire, and she and her son went about together, often reclining
in the same litter; usually, however, she would be carried and he would follow alongside. It
was she who transacted business with embassies and sent letters to peoples and governors and
kings. When this had gone on for a considerable time, it aroused the displeasure of Seneca
and Burrus, who were both the most sensible and the most influential of the advisers of Nero.
The one was his teacher and the other was prefect of the Pretorians. They took the following
occasion to stop this method of procedure. An embassy of Armenians had arrived and Agrippina
wished to ascend the platform from which Nero was talking with them. The two men, seeing her
approach, persuaded the young man to go down before she could reach there and meet his mother,
pretending some form of greeting. After that was done they did not return again, making some
excuse to prevent the foreigners from seeing the flaw in the empire. Subsequently they labored
to keep any public business from being again committed to her hands.

[Sidenote:--4--] When they had accomplished this, they themselves took charge of the entire
empire and gave it the very best and fairest management that they could. Nero was not in general
fond of affairs and was glad to live at leisure. [The reason, indeed, that he had previously
distrusted his mother and now was fond of her lay in the fact that now he was free to enjoy
himself, and the government was being carried on no less well. And his advisers after consultation
made many changes in existing customs, abolishing some things altogether and passing a number
of new laws.] They let Nero sow his wild oats with the intention of bringing about in him through
the satisfaction of all his desires a changed attitude of mind, while in the meantime no great
damage should be done to public interests. Surely they must have known that a young and self-willed
spirit, when reared in unreproved license and in absolute authority, so far from becoming satiated
by the indulgence of its passions is ruined more and more by these very agencies. Indeed, Nero
at first gave but simple dinners; his revels, his drunkenness, his amours were moderate. Afterward,
as no one reproved him for them and public business was carried forward none the worse for
all of it, he began to believe that what he did was right and that he could carry his practices
to even greater lengths. [Consequently he began to indulge in each of these pursuits in a more
open and precipitate fashion. And in case his guardians gave him any warning or his mother
any rebuke, he would appear abashed while they were present and promise to reform; but as soon
as they were gone, he would again become the slave of his desire and yield to those who were
dragging him in the other direction,--a straight course down hill.] Next he came to despise
instruction, inasmuch as he was always hearing from his associates, "Do you submit to this?"
or "Do you fear these people?", "Don't you know that you are Caesar?", "Have not you the authority
over them rather than they over you?" He was also animated by obstinacy, not wishing to acknowledge
his mother as superior and himself as inferior, nor to admit the greater good sense of Seneca
and Burrus.

[Sidenote:--5--] Finally he passed the possibility of being shamed, dashed to the ground and
trampled under foot all their suggestions, and began to follow in the steps of Gaius. When
he had once felt a desire to emulate him, he quite outdid him, for he believed that the imperial
power must manifest itself among other ways by allowing no one to surpass it even in the vilest
deeds. [As he was praised for this by the crowds, and received many pleasant compliments from
them, he gave himself no rest. His doings were at first confined to his home and associates,
but were later on carried abroad. Thus he attached a mighty disgrace to the whole Roman race
and committed many outrages upon the individuals composing it. Innumerable acts of violence
and insult, of rape and murder, were committed both by the emperor himself and by those who
at one time or another had influence with him. And, as certainly and inevitably follows in
all such practices], great sums of money naturally were spent, great sums unjustly procured,
and great sums seized by force. For under no circumstances was Nero niggardly. Here is an illustration.
He had ordered no less than two hundred and fifty myriads at one time to be given to Doryphorus,
who attended to the state documents of his empire. Agrippina had it all piled in a heap, hoping
by showing him the money all together to make him change his mind. Instead, he asked how much
the mass before him amounted to, and when he was informed he doubled it, saying: "I was not
aware that I had allowed him so little." It can clearly be seen, then, that as a result of
the magnitude of his expenditures he would quickly exhaust the treasures in the royal vaults
and quickly need new revenues. Hence unusual taxes were imposed and the property of the well-to-do
was not left intact. Some lost their possessions to spite him and others destroyed themselves
with their livelihoods. Similarly he hated and made away with some others who had no considerable
wealth; for, if they possessed any excellent trait or were of a good family, he became suspicious
that they disliked him.

[Sidenote:--6--] Such were the general characteristics of Nero. I shall now proceed to details.

In the matter of horse-races Nero grew so enthusiastic that he adorned famous race-horses that
had passed their prime with the regular street costume for men and honored them with money
for their fodder. The horsebreeders and charioteers, elated at this enthusiasm of his, proceeded
to abuse unjustifiably even the praetors and consuls. But Aulus Fabricius, when praetor, finding
that they refused to hold contests on fair terms, dispensed with them entirely. He trained
dogs to draw chariots and introduced them in place of horses. When this was done, the wearers
of the white and of the red immediately entered their chariots: but, as the Greens and the
Blues would not even then participate, Nero at his own cost gave the prizes to the horses,
and the regular program of the circus was carried out.

Agrippina showed readiness to attack the greatest undertakings, as is evidenced by her causing
the death of Marcus Julius Silanus, to whom she sent some of the poison with which she had
treacherously murdered her husband.

Silanus was governor of Asia, and was in no respect inferior to the general character of his
family. It was for this, more than for anything else, she said, that she killed him, not wishing
to have him preferred before Nero, by reason of the latter's manner of life. Moreover, she
turned everything into trade and gathered money from the most insignificant and basest sources.

Laelianus, who was despatched to Armenia in place of Pollio, had been assigned to the command
of the night watch. And he was no better than Pollio, for, while surpassing him in reputation,
he was all the more insatiable in respect to gain.

[Sidenote: A.D. 55 (a.u. 808)] [Sidenote:--7--] Agrippina found a grievance in the fact that
she was no longer supreme in affairs of the palace. It was chiefly because of Acte. Acte had
been brought as a slave from Asia. She caught the fancy of Nero, was adopted into the family
of Attalus, and was cherished much more carefully than was Nero's wife Octavia. Agrippina,
indignant at this and at other matters, first attempted to rebuke him, and set herself to humiliating
his associates, some by beatings and by getting rid of others. But when she accomplished nothing,
she took it greatly to heart and remarked to him: "It was I who made you emperor," just as
if she had the power to take away the authority from him again. She did not comprehend that
every form of independent power given to any one by a private citizen immediately ceases to
be the property of the giver and belongs to the one who receives it to use against his benefactor.

Britannicus Nero murdered treacherously by poison, and then, as the skin was turned livid by
the action of the drug, he smeared the body with gypsum. But as it was being carried through
the Forum a heavy rain falling while the gypsum was still damp washed it all away, so that
the horror was exposed not only to comment but to view. [After Britannicus was dead Seneca
and Burrus ceased to give careful attention to public interests and were satisfied if they
might manage them conservatively and still preserve their lives. Consequently Nero now made
himself conspicuous by giving free rein to all his desires without fear of retribution. His
behavior began to be absolutely insensate, as is shown, for instance, by his punishing a certain
knight, Antonius, as a seller of poisons and by further burning the poisons publicly. He took
great credit for this action as well as for prosecuting some persons who had tampered with
wills; but other people only laughed to see him punishing his own acts in the persons of others.]

[Sidenote:--8--] His secret acts of licentiousness were many, both at home and throughout the
City, by night and by day. He used to frequent the taverns and wandered about everywhere like
a private person. Any number of beatings and insults took place in this connection and the
evil spread to the theatres, so that those who worked as dancers and who had charge of the
horses paid no attention either to praetors or to consuls. They were disorderly themselves
and led others to be the same, while Nero not only did not restrain them even by words, but
stirred them up all the more. He delighted in their actions and used to be secretly conveyed
in a litter into the theatres, where unseen by the rest he watched the proceedings. Indeed,
he forbade the soldiers who had usually been in attendance at all public gatherings to appear
there any longer. The reason he assigned was that they ought not to superintend anything but
strictly military affairs, but his true purpose was to afford those who wished to raise a disturbance
the amplest scope. He made use of the same excuse in reference to his not allowing any soldier
to attend his mother, saying that no one except the emperor ought to be guarded by them. In
this way he displayed his enmity toward the masses, and as for his mother he was already openly
at variance with her. Everything that they said to each other, or that the imperial pair did
each day, was reported outside the palace, yet it did not all reach the public and hence conjectures
were made to supply missing details and different versions arose. What was conceivable as happening,
in view of the baseness and lewdness of the pair, was noised abroad as having already taken
place, and reports possessing some credibility were believed as true. The populace, seeing
Agrippina now for the first time without Pretorians, took care not to fall in with her even
by accident; and if any one did chance to meet her he would hastily get out of the way without
saying a word.

[Sidenote:--9--] At one spectacle men on horseback overcame bulls while riding along beside
them, and the knights who served as Nero's personal guard brought down with their javelins
four hundred bears and three hundred lions. On the same occasion thirty knights belonging to
the military fought in the arena. The emperor sanctioned such proceedings openly. Secretly,
however, he carried on nocturnal revels throughout the length and breadth of the city, insulting
the women, practicing lewdness on boys, stripping those whom he encountered, striking, wounding,
murdering. He had an idea that his incognito was impenetrable, for he used all sorts of different
costumes and false hair at different times: but he would be recognized by his retinue and by
his deeds. No one else would have dared to commit so many and such gross outrages so recklessly.
[Sidenote: A.D. 56 (a.u. 809)] It was becoming unsafe even for a person to stay at home, since
he would break into shops and houses. It came about that a certain Julius Montanus, [Footnote:
C. Iulius Montanus C.F. (Cp. Suetonius, Life of Nero, chapter 60).] a senator, enraged on his
wife's account, fell upon this reveler and inflicted many blows upon him, so that he had to
remain several days in concealment by reason of the black eyes he had received. Montanus did
not suffer for it, since Nero thought the violence had been all an accident and was for showing
no anger at the occurrence, had not the other sent him a letter begging his pardon. Nero on
reading the epistle remarked: "So he knew that he was striking Nero." The suicide of Montanus
followed hard after.

[Sidenote: A.D. 57 (a.u. 810)] In the course of producing a spectacle at one of the theatres,
he suddenly filled the place with sea-water so that the fishes and sea-monsters [Footnote:
[Greek: ktaenae] of the MSS. was changed to [Greek: kaetae] on the conjecture of Sylburgius,
who was followed by Bekker, Dindorf, and Boissevain. (Compare also Suetonius, Life of Nero,
chapter 12).] swam in it, and had a naval battle between "Persians" and "Athenians." At the
close of it he suddenly withdrew the water, dried the subsoil, and continued land contests,
not only between two men at a time but with crowds pitted against other crowds.

[Sidenote: A.D. 58 (a.u. 811)] [Sidenote:--10--] Subsequent to this, oratorical contests took
place, and as a result even of these numbers were exiled and put to death.--Seneca also was
held to account, one of the charges against him being that he was intimate with Agrippina.
[It had not been enough for him to debauch Julia, nor had he become better as a result of exile,
but he went on to make advances to such a woman as Agrippina, with such a son.] Not only in
this instance but in others he was convicted of doing precisely the opposite of what he taught
in his philosophical doctrines. He brought accusations against tyranny, yet he made himself
a teacher of tyrants: he denounced such of his associates as were powerful, yet he did not
hold aloof from the palace himself: he had nothing good to say of flatterers, yet he had so
fawned upon Messalina and Claudius's freedmen [that he had sent them from the island a book
containing eulogies upon them; this latter caused him such mortification that he erased the
passage.] While finding fault with the rich, he himself possessed a property of seven thousand
five hundred myriads; and though he censured the extravagances of others, he kept five hundred
three-legged tables of cedar wood, every one of them with identical ivory feet, and he gave
banquets on them. In mentioning these details I have at least given a hint of their inevitable
adjuncts,--the licentiousness in which he indulged at the very time that he made a most brilliant
marriage, and the delight that he took in boys past their prime (a practice which he also taught
Nero to follow). Nevertheless, his austerity of life had earlier been so severe that he had
asked his pupil neither to kiss him nor to eat at the same table with him. [For the latter
request he had a good reason, namely, that Nero's absence would enable him to conduct his philosophical
studies at leisure without being hindered by the young man's dinners. But as for the kiss,
I can not conceive how that tradition came about. The only explanation which one could imagine,
namely, his unwillingness to kiss that sort of mouth, is proved to be false by the facts concerning
his favorites. For this and for his adultery some complaints were lodged against him, but at
this time he was himself released without formal accusations and succeeded in begging off Pallas
and Burrus. Later on he did not come out so well.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 59 (a.u. 811)] [Sidenote:--11--] There was a certain Marcus Salvius Otho, who
through similarity of character and sharing in wrongdoing had become so intimate with Nero
that he was not even punished for saying one day to the latter: "Then I hope you may see me
Caesar." All that came of it was the response: "I sha'n't see you even consul." It was to him
that the emperor gave Sabina, of patrician family, after separating her from her husband, and
they both enjoyed her together. Agrippina, therefore, fearing that Nero would marry the woman
(for he was now beginning to entertain a mad passion for her), ventured upon a most unholy
course. As if it were not enough for her story that she had attracted her uncle Claudius into
love for her by her blandishments and uncontrolled looks and kisses, she undertook to enslave
Nero also in similar fashion. However, I am not sure whether this actually occurred, or whether
it was invented to fit their characters: but I state here what is admitted by all, that Nero
had a mistress resembling Agrippina of whom he was especially fond because of this very resemblance.
And when he toyed with the girl herself or threw out hints about it to others, he would say
that he was having intercourse with his mother.

[Sidenote: A.D. 59 (a.u. 812)] Sabina on hearing about this began to persuade Nero to get rid
of his mother in order to forestall her alleged plots against him. He was likewise incited,--so
many trustworthy men have stated,--by Seneca, whether it was to obscure the complaint against
his own name that the latter was anxious or to lead Nero on to a career of unholy bloodguiltiness
that should bring about most speedily his destruction by gods and men. But they shrank from
doing the deed openly and were not able to put her out of the way secretly by means of poison,
for she took extreme precautions against all such things. One day they saw in the theatre a
ship that automatically separated in two, let out some beasts, and came together again so as
to be once more seaworthy; and they at once had another one built like it. By the time the
ship was finished Agrippina had been quite won over by Nero's attentions, for he exhibited
devotion to her in every way to make sure that she should suspect nothing and be off her guard.
He dared, however, do nothing in Rome for fear the crime should become widely known. Hence
he went some distance into Campania accompanied by his mother, and took a sail on the fatal
ship itself, which was adorned in the most brilliant fashion to the end that she might feel
a desire to use the vessel continually.

[Sidenote:--13--] When they reached Bauli, he gave for several days most costly dinners at
which he showed great solicitude in entertaining his mother. If she were absent he feigned
to miss her sorely, and if she were present he was lavish of caresses. He bade her ask whatever
she desired and bestowed many gifts without her asking. When he had shaped the situation to
this extent [Footnote: Adopting Reiske's conjecture, nv.], then rising from dinner about midnight
he embraced her, and straining her to his breast kissed her eyes and hands, exclaiming: "Mother,
farewell, and happiness attend you! For you I live and because of you I rule." He then gave
her in charge of Anicetus, a freedman, supposedly to convey her home on the ship that he had
prepared.

But the sea would not endure the tragedy about to be enacted on it nor would it submit to assume
responsibility for the deception wrought by the monstrous contrivance: therefore, though the
ship parted asunder and Agrippina fell into the water, she did not perish. In spite of the
fact that it was dark and she was full of strong drink and that the sailors used their oar
blades on her, so much so that they killed Acerronia Polla, her fellow voyager, she nevertheless
saved her life and reached home. Thereupon she affected not to realize that it was a plot and
let not a word of it be known, but sent speedily to her son an account of the occurrence with
the implication that it had happened by accident, and conveyed to him the good news (as she
assumed it to be) that she was safe. Nero hearing this could not endure the unexpected outcome
but punished the messenger as savagely as if he had come to assassinate him, and at once despatched
Anicetus with the sailors to make an end of his mother. He would not entrust the killing of
her to the Pretorians. When she saw them, she knew for what they had come, and leaping from
her bed tore open her clothing; exposing her abdomen, and cried out: "Strike here, Anicetus,
strike here, for this bore Nero!"

[Sidenote:--14--] Thus was Agrippina, daughter of Germanicus, grandchild of Agrippa, descendant
of Augustus, slain by the very son to whom she had given the sovereignty and for whose sake
she had killed her uncle and others. Nero when informed that she was dead would not believe
it, for the monstrousness of his bold deed plunged him in doubts; therefore he desired to behold
the victim with his own eyes. So he laid bare her body, looked her all over and inspected her
wounds, finally uttering a remark far more abominable even than the crime. What he said was:
"I did not know I had so beautiful a mother."

To the Pretorians he gave money evidently to secure their prayers for many such occurrences,
and he sent to the senate a message in which he enumerated the offences of which he knew she
was guilty, stating also that she had plotted against him and on being detected had committed
suicide. Yet for all this calm explanation to the governing body he was frequently subject
to agitation at night, so that he would even leap suddenly from his bed. And by day terror
seized him at the sound of trumpets that seemed to blare forth some horrid din of war from
the spot where lay Agrippina's bones. Therefore he went elsewhere. And when in his new abode
he had again the same experience, he distractedly transferred his residence to some other place.

Nero, not having a word of truth from any one and seeing that all approved what he had been
doing, thought that either his actions had escaped notice or that he had conducted himself
correctly. Hence he became much worse also in other respects. He came to think that all that
it was in his power to do was right and gave heed to those whose speech was prompted by fear
or flattery as if they told absolute truth. For a time he was subject to fears and questionings,
but, after the ambassadors had made him a number of pleasing speeches, he regained courage.

[Sidenote:--15--] The population of Rome, on hearing the report, though horrified were nevertheless
joyful, because they thought that now he would surely come to ruin. Nearly all of the senators
pretended to rejoice at what had taken place, participated in Nero's pleasure, and voted many
measures of which they thought he would be glad. Publius Thrasea Paetus had also come to the
senate-house and listened to the letter. When, however, the reading was done, he at once rose
without making any comment and went out. Thus what he would have said he could not, and what
he could have said he would not. He behaved in the same way under all other conditions. For
he used to say: "If it were a matter of Nero's putting only me to death, I could easily pardon
the rest who load him with flatteries. But since among those even who praise him so excessively
he has gotten rid of some and will yet destroy others, why should one stoop to indecent behavior
and perish like a slave, when like a freeman one may pay the debt to nature? There shall be
talk of me hereafter, but of these men not a word save for the single fact that they were killed."
Such was the kind of man Thrasea showed himself, and he would always encourage himself by saying:
"Nero can kill me, but he can not harm me."

[Sidenote:--16--] When Nero after his mother's murder reentered Rome, people paid him reverence
in public, but in private so long as any one could speak frankly with safety they tore his
character to very tatters. And first they hung by night a piece of hide on one of his statues
to signify that he himself ought to have a hiding. Second, they threw down in the Forum a baby
to which was fastened a board, saying: "I will not take you up for fear you may slay your mother."

At Nero's entrance into Rome they took down the statues of Agrippina. But there was one which
they did not cut loose soon enough, and so they threw over it a cloth which gave it the appearance
of being veiled. Thereupon somebody at once affixed to the statue the following inscription:
"I am abashed and thou art unashamed."

In many quarters at once, also, might be read the inscription:

  "Nero, Orestes, Alemeon, matricides."

Persons could actually be heard saying in so many words: "Nero put his mother out of the way."
Not a few lodged information that certain persons had spoken in this way, their object being
not so much to destroy those whom they accused as to bring reproach, on Nero. Hence he would
admit no suit of that kind, either not wishing that the rumor should become more widespread
by such means, or out of utter contempt for what was said. However, in the midst of the sacrifices
offered in memory of Agrippina according to decree, the sun suffered a total eclipse and the
stars could be seen. Also, the elephants drawing the chariot of Augustus entered the hippodrome
and went as far as the senators' seats, but at that point they stopped and refused to proceed
farther. And the event which one might most readily conjecture to have taken place through
divine means was that a thunderbolt descended upon his dinner and consumed it all as it was
being brought to him, like some tremendous harpy snatching away his food.

[Sidenote:--17--] [In spite of this he killed by poison also his aunt Domitia, whom likewise
he used to say he revered like a mother. He would not even wait a few days for her to die a
natural death of old age, but was eager to destroy her also. His haste to do this was inspired
by her possessions at Baiae and Ravenna, which included magnificent amusement pavilions that
she had erected and] are in fine condition even now. In honor of his mother he celebrated a
very great and costly festival, events taking place for several days in five or six theatres
at once. It was then that an elephant was led to the very top of the vault of the theatre and
walked down from that point on ropes, carrying a rider. There was another exhibition at once
most disgraceful and shocking. Men and women not only of equestrian but even of senatorial
rank appeared in the orchestra, the hippodrome, and even the hunting-theatre, like the veriest
outcasts. Some of them played the flute and danced or acted tragedies and comedies or sang
to the lyre. They drove horses, killed beasts, fought as gladiators, some willingly, others
with a very bad grace. Men of that day beheld the great families,--the Furii, the Horatii,
the Fabii, Poreii, Valerii, and all the rest whose trophies, whose temples were to be seen,--standing
down below the level of the spectators and doing some things to which no common citizen even
would stoop. So they would point them out to one another and make remarks, Macedonians saying:
"That is the descendant of Paulus"; Greeks, "Yonder the offspring of Mummius"; Sicilians, "Look
at Claudius"; the Epirots, "Look at Appius"; Asiatics, "There's Lucius"; Iberians, "There's
Publius"; Carthaginians, "There's Africanus"; Romans, "There they all are". Such was the expiation
that the emperor chose to offer for his own indecency.

[Sidenote:--18--] All who had sense, likewise, bewailed the multitude of expenditures. Every
costliest viand that men eat, everything else, indeed, of the highest value,--horses, slaves,
teams, gold, silver, raiment of varied hues,--was given away by tickets. Nero would throw tiny
balls, each one appropriately inscribed, among the populace and that article represented by
the token received would be presented to the person who had seized it. The sensible, I say,
reflected that, when he spent so much to prevent molestation in his disgraceful course, he
would not be restrained from any most outrageous proceedings through mere hope of profit.

Some portents had taken place about this time, which the seers declared imported destruction
to him, and they advised him to divert the danger upon others. So he would have immediately
put numbers of men out of the way, had not Seneca said to him: "No matter how many you may
slay, you can not kill your successor."

It was now that he celebrated a corresponding number of "Preservation Sacrifices," as he called
them, and dedicated the forum for the sale of dainties, called Macellum. [Sidenote:--19--]
Somewhat later he instituted a different kind of feast (called Juvenalia, a word that showed
it belonged in some way to "youth"). The occasion was the shaving of his beard for the first
time. The hairs he cast into a small golden globe and offered to Jupiter Capitolinus. To furnish
amusement members of the noblest families as well as others did not fail to give exhibitions.
For instance, Aelia Catella danced: he was first of all a man prominent for family and wealth
and also advanced in years,--he was eighty years of age. Others who on account of old age or
disease could not do anything on their own account sang as chorus. All devoted themselves to
practicing as much as and by whatever way they were able. Regularly appointed "schools" were
frequented by the most distinguished men, women, girls, lads, old women, old men. In case any
one was unable to appear in any other fashion, he would enter the choruses. And whereas some
of them out of shame had put on masks to avoid being recognized, Nero at the request of the
populace had them taken off and showed these people to those by whom they had once been ruled.
Now most of all it was that these amateur performers and others deemed the dead happy; for
many of the foremost men this year had been slain. Some of them, charged with conspiracy against
Nero, were surrounded by the soldiers and stoned to death.

[Sidenote:--20--] And, as there needed to be a fitting climax to these deeds, Nero himself
appeared as an actor and Gallio [Footnote: L. Iunius Gallio.] proclaimed him by name. There
stood Caesar on the stage wearing the garb of a singing zither-player. Spoke the emperor: "My
lords, of your kindness give me ear." Then did the Augustus sing to the zither a thing called
"Attis or the Bacchantes," [Footnote: The title of one of Nero's poems.] whilst many soldiers
stood by and all the people that the seats would hold sat watching. Yet had he (according to
the tradition) but a slight voice and an indistinct, so that he moved all present to laughter
and tears at once. Beside him stood Burrus and Seneca like teachers prompting a pupil: they
would wave their hands and togas at every utterance and draw others on to do the same. Indeed,
Nero had ready a peculiar corps of about five thousand soldiers, called Augustans; these would
begin the applause, and all the rest, however loath, were obliged to shout aloud with them,--except
Thrasea. He would never stoop to such conduct. But the rest, and especially the prominent men,
gathered with alacrity even when in grief and joined as if glad in all the shouts of the Augustans.
One could hear them saying: "Excellent Caesar! Apollo! Augustus! One like unto the Pythian!
By thine own self, O Caesar, no one can surpass thee!" After this performance he entertained
the people at a feast on boats on the site of the naval battle given by Augustus: thence at
midnight he sailed through a canal into the Tiber.

[Sidenote: A.D. 60 (a.u. 813)] [Sidenote:--21--] This, then, he did to celebrate the shaving
of his chin. In behalf of his preservation and the continuance of his authority,--thus he gave
notice,--he instituted quinquennial games, naming them Neronia. In honor of the event he also
constructed the gymnasium at the dedication of which he made a free distribution of olive oil
to the senators and knights. The crown for singing to the zither, moreover, he took without
a contest, for all others were debarred on the assumption that they were unworthy of victory.
[And immediately in their garb he was enrolled on the very lists of the gymnasium.] Thenceforward
all other crowns for zither playing at all the contests were sent to him as the only person
competent to win victories of that sort.

DIO'S ROMAN HISTORY 62

About the disaster to the Romans in Britain, brought upon them by Buduica (chapters 1-7).

Paulinus, returning from subduing the island of Mona, conquers in battle (chapters 8-12).

Octavia Augusta and Burrus, likewise Plautus and Pallas, are put to death by Nero (chapters
13, 14).

Most swinish reveling at the games of Tigillinus (chapter 15).

How Nero set the city on fire (chapters 16-18).

The uprightness of Corbulo: proceedings against Vologaesus and Tiridates (chapters 19, 20).

Misfortune attends the endeavors of Paetus: Vologaesus forms a compact with Corbulo (chapters
21-23).

Seneca, Soranus, Thrasea, Sabina are put to death: Musonius and Cornutus are banished (chapters
24-29).

DURATION OF TIME.

Nero Aug. (IV), Cornelius Cossus Cossi F. Lentulus. (A.D. 60 = a.u. 813 = Seventh of Nero,
from Oct. 13th).

Caesonius Paetus, P. Petronius Turpilianus. (A.D. 61 = a.u. 814 = Eighth of Nero).

P. Marius Celsus, L. Asinius Gallus. (A.D. 62 = a.u. 815 = Ninth of Nero).

C. Memmius Regulus, L. Verginius Rufus. (A.D. 63 = a.u. 816 = Tenth of Nero).

C. Lecanius Bassus, M. Licinius Crassus Frugi. (A.D. 64 = a.u. 817 = Eleventh of Nero).

A. Licinius Nerva Silanus, M. Vestinus Atticus. (A.D. 65 = a.u. 818 = Twelfth of Nero).

[Sidenote: A.D. 61 (a.u. 814)] [Sidenote:--1--] While this sport was going on at Rome, a terrible
disaster had taken place in Britain. Two cities had been sacked, eight myriads of Romans and
of their allies had perished, and the island had been lost. Moreover, all this ruin was brought
upon them by a woman, a fact which in itself caused them the greatest shame. Heaven evidently
gave them in advance an indication of the catastrophe. At night there was heard to issue from
the senate-house foreign jargon mingled with laughter and from the theatre outcries with wailing:
yet no mortal man had uttered the speeches or the groans. Houses under water came to view in
the river Thames, [Footnote: Compare Tacitus, Annals, XIV, 32 ("visamque speciem in aestuario
Tamesae subversae Coloniae").] and the ocean between the island and Gaul sometimes grew bloody
at flood-tide.

[Sidenote:--2--] The casus belli lay in the confiscation of the money which Claudius had given
to the foremost Britons,--Decianus Catus, governor of the island, announcing that this must
now be sent back. This was one reason [Lacuna] [Footnote: It would seem natural to supply "for
the uprising," as does Reiske.] and another was that Seneca had lent them on excellent terms
as regards interest a thousand myriads that they did not want, [Footnote: The meaning of this
phrase ( [Greek: achousin]) is not wholly clear. Naber purposes to substitute [Greek: aitousin]
("that they were asking for").] and had afterward called in this loan all at once and levied
on them for it with severity. But the person who most stirred their spirits and persuaded them
to fight the Romans, who was deemed worthy to stand at their head and to have the conduct of
the entire war, was a British woman, Buduica, [Footnote: Known commonly as Boadicea.] of the
royal family and possessed of greater judgment than often belongs to women. It was she who
gathered the army to the number of nearly twelve myriads and ascended a tribunal of marshy
soil made after the Roman fashion. In person she was very tall, with a most sturdy figure and
a piercing glance; her voice was harsh; a great mass of yellow hair fell below her waist and
a large golden necklace clasped her throat; wound about her was a tunic of every conceivable
color and over it a thick chlamys had been fastened with a brooch. Some cannot even boast of noble
descent, though destined to royal wedlock; for they are not royal
offspring, but virgin-born,-- parthenogenetic children,-- and, for that
reason especially, inferior beings, the chance results of some mysterious
atavism.

But of any sort of males the commonwealth tolerates but few,-- barely enough to serve as husbands
for the Mothers-Elect, and these few perish almost as soon as their duty has been done. The meaning
of Nature's law, in this extraordinary world, is identical with Ruskin's teaching that life without
effort is crime; and since the males are useless as workers or fighters, their existence is
of only momentary importance. They are not, indeed, sacrificed,-- like the Aztec victim chosen
for the festival of Tezcatlipoca, and allowed a honeymoon of twenty days before his heart was
torn out. But they are scarcely less unfortunate in their high fortune. Imagine youths brought
up in the knowledge that they are destined to become royal bridegrooms for a single night,-- that
after their bridal they will have no moral right to live,-- that marriage, for each and all
of them, will signify certain death,-- and that they cannot even hope to be lamented by their
young widows, who will survive them for a time of many generations...!

V But all the foregoing is no more than a proem to the real "Romance
of the Insect-World."-- By far the most startling discovery in relation
to this astonishing civilization is that of the suppression of sex.

In certain advanced forms of ant-life sex totally disappears in the
majority of individuals;-- in nearly all the higher ant-societies
sex-life appears to exist only to the extent absolutely needed for
the continuance of the species.

But the biological fact in itself is much less startling than the ethical suggestion which it offers;--
for this practical suppression, or regulation, of sex-faculty appears to be voluntary! Voluntary,
at least, so far as the species is concerned. It is now believed
that they wonderful creatures have learned how to develop, or to arrest the
development, of sex in their young,-- by some particular mode of
nutrition.

They have succeeded in placing under perfect control what is commonly supposed to be the most
powerful and unmanageable of instincts. And this rigid restraint of sex-life to within the limits
necessary to provide against extinction is but one (though the most amazing) of many vital economies
effected by the race. Every capacity for egoistic pleasure-- in the common meaning of the word "egoistic"--
has been equally repressed through physiological modification. No indulgence of any natural
appetite is possible except to that degree in which such indulgence can directly or indirectly benefit
the species;-- even the indispensable requirements of food and sleep being satisfied only to the
exact extent necessary for the maintenance of healthy activity. The individual can exist, act, think,
only for the communal good; and the commune triumphantly refuses, in so far as cosmic law permits, to let
itself be ruled either by Love or Hunger. Most of us have been brought up in the belief that without
some kind of religious creed-- some hope of future reward or fear of future punishment-- no civilization
could exist. We have been taught to think that in the absence of laws based upon moral ideas, and
in the absence of an effective police to enforce such laws, nearly everybody would seek only his
or her personal advantage, to the disadvantage of everybody else.

The strong would then destroy the weak; pity and sympathy would disappear; and the whole social
fabric would fall to pieces... These teachings confess the existing imperfection of human nature;
and they contain obvious truth. But those who first proclaimed that truth, thousands and thousands
of years ago, never imagined a form of social existence in which selfishness would be naturally
impossible. It remained for irreligious Nature to furnish us with proof positive that there can
exist a society in which the pleasure of active beneficence makes needless the idea of duty,-- a
society in which instinctive morality can dispense with ethical codes of every sort,-- a society
of which every member is born so absolutely unselfish, and so energetically good, that moral
training could signify, even for its youngest, neither more nor less than waste of precious time. To
the Evolutionist such facts necessarily suggest that the value of our moral idealism is but temporary;
and that something better than virtue, better than kindness, better than self-denial,-- in the
present human meaning of those terms,-- might, under certain conditions, eventually replace them. He
finds himself obliged to face the question whether a world without moral notions might not be morally
better than a world in which conduct is regulated by such notions.

He must even ask himself whether the existence of religious commandments, moral laws, and ethical
standards among ourselves does not prove us still in a very primitive stage of social evolution. And
these questions naturally lead up to another: Will humanity ever be able, on this planet, to reach
an ethical condition beyond all its ideals,-- a condition in which everything that we now call
evil will have been atrophied out of existence, and everything that we call virtue have been transmuted
into instinct;-- a state of altruism in which ethical concepts and codes will have become as useless
as they would be, even now, in the societies of the higher ants. The giants of modern thought
have given some attention to this question; and the greatest among them has answered it-- partly
in the affirmative. Herbert Spencer has expressed his belief that
humanity will arrive at some state of civilization ethically comparable
with that of the ant:-- "If we have, in lower orders of creatures, cases
in which the nature is constitutionally so modified that altruistic
activities have become one with egoistic activities, there is an irresistible
implication that a parallel identification will, under parallel conditions,
take place among human beings.

Social insects furnish us with instances completely to the point,-- and instances showing us, indeed,
to what a marvelous degree the life of the individual may be absorbed in subserving the lives of other
individuals... Neither the ant nor the bee can be supposed to have
a sense of duty, in the acceptation we give to that word; nor can
it be supposed that it is continually undergoing self-sacrifice, in
the ordinary acceptation of that word... [The facts] show us that
it is within the possibilities of organization to produce a nature
which shall be just as energetic in the pursuit of altruistic ends,
as is in other cases shown in the pursuit of egoistic ends;-- and
they show that, in such cases, these altruistic ends are pursued in
pursuing ends which, on their other face, are egoistic.

For the satisfaction of the needs of the organization, these actions, conducive to the welfare
of others, must be carried on..........." So far from its being true that there must go on, throughout
all the future, a condition in which self-regard is to be continually subjected by the regard
for others, it will, contrari-wise, be the case that a regard for others will eventually become
so large a source of pleasure as to overgrow the pleasure which is derivable from direct egoistic
gratification... Eventually, then, there will come also a state in which egoism and altruism are
so conciliated that the one merges in the other. "VI Of course the foregoing prediction does not imply
that human nature will ever undergo such physiological change as would be represented by structural
specializations comparable to those by which the various castes of insect societies are differentiated.
We are not bidden to imagine a future state of humanity in which the active majority would
consist of semi-female workers and Amazons toiling for an inactive minority of selected Mothers.
Even in his chapter," Human Population in the Future, "Mr. Spencer has attempted no detailed statement
of the physical modifications inevitable to the production of higher
moral types,-- though his general statement in regard to a perfected
nervous system, and a great diminution of human fertility, suggests
that such moral evolution would signify a very considerable amount
of physical change.

If it be legitimate to believe in a future humanity to which the
pleasure of mutual beneficence will represent the whole joy of life,
would it not also be legitimate to imagine other transformations,
physical and moral, which the facts of insect-biology have proved
to be within the range of evolutional possibility?... I do not know.

I most worshipfully reverence Herbert Spencer as the greatest philosopher who has yet appeared in
this world; and I should be very sorry to write down anything contrary to his teaching, in such
wise that the reader could imagine it to have been inspired by Synthetic Philosophy. For
the ensuing reflections, I alone am responsible; and if I err, let the sin be upon my own head.
I suppose that the moral transformations predicted by Mr. Spencer, could be effected only with
the aid of physiological change, and at a terrible cost.

Those ethical conditions manifested by insect-societies can have
been reached only through effort desperately sustained for millions
of years against the most atrocious necessities.

Necessities equally merciless may have to be met and mastered eventually by the human race. Mr. Spencer
has shown that the time of the greatest possible human suffering is yet to come, and that
it will be concomitant with the period of the greatest possible pressure of population. Among other results
of that long stress, I understand that there will be a vast increase in human intelligence
and sympathy; and that this increases of intelligence will be effected at the cost of human
fertility. But this decline in reproductive power will not, we are told, be sufficient to assure
the very highest of social conditions: it will only relieve that pressure of population which
has been the main cause of human suffering. The state of perfect social equilibrium will be approached,
but never quite reached, by mankind-- Unless there be discovered some means of solving economic
problems, just as social insects have solved them, by the suppression of sex-life. Supposing
that such a discovery were made, and that the human race should decide to arrest the development
of six in the majority of its young,-- so as to effect a transferrence of those forces, now demanded
by sex-life to the development of higher activities,-- might not the result be an eventual state
of polymorphism, like that of ants? And, in such event, might not the
Coming Race be indeed represented in its higher types,-- through feminine
rather than masculine evolution,-- by a majority of beings of neither
sex?

Considering how many persons, even now, through merely unselfish
(not to speak of religious) motives, sentence themselves to celibacy,
it should not appear improbably that a more highly evolved humanity
would cheerfully sacrifice a large proportion of its sex-life for
the common weal, particular ly in view of certain advantages to be
gained.

Not
the least of such advantages-- always supposing that mankind were able to control sex-life after
the natural manner of the ants-- would be a prodigious increase of longevity. The higher types
of a humanity superior to sex might be able to realize the dream of life for a thousand years. Already
we find lives too short for the work we have to do; and with the constantly accelerating progress
of discovery, and the never-ceasing expansion of knowledge, we shall certainly find more and more
reason to regret, as time goes on, the brevity of existence. That Science will ever discover
the Elixir of the Alchemists'hope is extremely unlikely. The Cosmic Powers will not allow us to cheat
them. For every advantage which they yield us the full price must be paid:
nothing for nothing is the everlasting law. Perhaps the price of long
life will prove to be the price that the ants have paid for it.

Perhaps, upon some elder planet, that price has already been paid, and the power to produce offspring
restricted to a caste morphologically differentiated, in unimaginable ways, from the rest of
the species... VII But while the facts of insect-biology suggest so much in regard to the future
course of human evolution, do they not also suggest something of
largest significance concerning the relation of ethics to cosmic law?

Apparently, the highest evolution will not be permitted to creatures capable of what human moral
experience has in all areas condemned.

Apparently, the highest possible strength is the strength of unselfishness; and power supreme
never will be accorded to cruelty or to lust. There may be no gods; but
the forces that shape and dissolve all forms of being would seem to be much
more exacting than gods. To prove a" dramatic tendency "in the ways
of the stars is not possible; but the cosmic process seems nevertheless
to affirm the worth of every human system of ethics fundamentally
opposed to human egoism.-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-Notes
THE STORY OF MIMI-NASHI-HOICHI [1] See my Kotto, for a description
of these curious crabs.

[2] Or, Shimonoseki. The town is also known by the name of Bakkan. [3] The biwa, a kind of four-stringed
lute, is chiefly used in musical recitative.

Formerly the professional minstrels who recited the Heike-Monogatari, and other tragical histories, were
called biwa-hoshi, or" lute-priests. "The origin of this appellation is not clear; but it is possible
that it may have been suggested by the fact that" lute-priests "as well as blind shampooers,
had their heads shaven, like Buddhist priests. The biwa is played with a kind of plectrum, called
bachi, usually made of horn. (1) A response to show that one has heard and is listening attentively.
[4] A respectful term, signifying the opening of a gate. It was used by samurai when calling
to the guards on duty at a lord's gate for admission.

[5] Or the phrase might be rendered," for the pity of that part is the deepest. "The Japanese word for pity
in the original text is" aware. "[6]" Traveling incognito "is at least the meaning of the original
phrase,--" making a disguised august-journey "(shinobi no go-ryoko). [7] The Smaller Pragna-Paramita-Hridaya-Sutra
is thus called in Japanese. OSHIDORI [1] From ancient time, in the Far East, these birds have
been regarded as emblems of conjugal affection. [2] There is a pathetic double meaning in the
third verse; for the syllables composing the proper name Akanuma (" Red Marsh ") may also be
read as akanu-ma, signifying" the time of our inseparable (or delightful) relation. "So the poem can
also be thus rendered:--" When the day began to fail, I had invited him
to accompany me...!

Now, after the time of that happy relation, what misery for the one
who must slumber alone in the shadow of the rushes!

"--
The makomo is a short of large rush, used for making baskets. THE
STORY OF O-TEI (1)"-sama "is a polite suffix attached to personal names.
(2) A Buddhist term commonly used to signify a kind of heaven. [1]
The Buddhist term zokumyo (" profane name ") signifies the personal
name, borne during life, in contradistinction to the kaimyo (" sila-name
") or homyo ("

Law-name ") given after death,-- religious posthumous appellations inscribed upon the tomb, and
upon the mortuary tablet in the parish-temple.-- For some account of these, see my paper entitled,"
The Literature of the Dead, "in Exotics and Retrospectives. [2] Buddhist household shrine.
(3) Direct translation of a Japanese form of address used toward young, unmarried women. DIPLOMACY
(1) The spacious house and grounds of a wealthy person is thus called. (2) A Buddhist service for
the dead. OF A MIRROR AND A BELL (1) Part of present-day Shizuoka Prefecture. (2) The two-hour
period between 1 AM and 3 AM.

(3) A monetary unit. JIKININKI (1) The southern part of present-day
Gifu Prefecture.

[1] Literally, a man-eating goblin.

The Japanese narrator gives also the Sanscrit term," Rakshasa; "but
this word is quite as vague as jikininki, since there are many kinds
of Rakshasas.

Apparently the word jikininki signifies here one of the Baramon-Rasetsu-Gaki,--
forming the twenty-sixth class of pretas enumerated in the old Buddhist
books.

[2] A Segaki-service is a special Buddhist service performed on behalf
of beings supposed to have entered into the condition of gaki (pretas),
or hungry spirits.

For a brief account of such a service, see my Japanese Miscellany. [3] Literally," five-circle
[or five-zone] stone. "A funeral monument consisting of five parts superimposed,-- each of a different
form,-- symbolizing the five mystic elements: Ether, Air, Fire, Water, Earth. MUJINA (1) A kind
of badger. Certain animals were thought to be able to transform themselves
and cause mischief for humans.

[1] O-jochu (" honorable damsel "), a polite form of address used
in speaking to a young lady whom one does not know.

(2) An apparition with a smooth, totally featureless face, called
a" nopperabo, "is a stock part of the Japanese pantheon of ghosts
and demons.

[2] Soba is a preparation of buckwheat, somewhat resembling vermicelli. (3) An exclamation of annoyed
alarm. (4) Well! ROKURO-KUBI [1] The period of Eikyo lasted from
1429 to 1441.

[2] The upper robe of a Buddhist priest is thus called. (1) Present-day Yamanashi Prefecture. (2) A term
for itinerant priests.

[3] A sort of little fireplace, contrived in the floor of a room, is thus described. The ro is usually a square
shallow cavity, lined with metal and half-filled with ashes, in which
charcoal is lighted.

(3) Direct translation of" suzumushi, "a kind of cricket with a distinctive
chirp like a tiny bell, whence the name.

  (4) Now a rokuro-kubi is ordinarily conceived as a goblin whose neck
stretches out to great lengths, but which nevertheless always remains
attached to its body.

(5) A Chinese collection of stories on the supernatural. [4] A present made to friends or to
the household on returning from a journey is thus called.

Ordinarily, of course, the miyage consists of something produced in the locality to which the journey
has been made: this is the point of Kwairyo's jest. (6) Present-day Nagano Prefecture. A DEAD SECRET
(1) On the present-day map, Tamba corresponds roughly to the central area of Kyoto Prefecture and part
of Hyogo Prefecture. [1] The Hour of the Rat (Ne-no-Koku), according to the old Japanese method
of reckoning time, was the first hour. It corresponded to the time
between our midnight and two o'clock in the morning; for the ancient
Japanese hours were each equal to two modern hours.

[2] Kaimyo, the posthumous Buddhist name, or religious name, given
to the dead.

Strictly speaking, the meaning of the work is sila-name.

(See my paper entitled," The Literature of the Dead "in Exotics and
Retrospectives.) YUKI-ONNA (1) An ancient province whose boundaries
took in most of present-day Tokyo, and parts of Saitama and Kanagawa
prefectures.

[1] That is to say, with a floor-surface of about six feet square. [2] This name, signifying" Snow, "is not uncommon.
On the subject of Japanese female names, see my paper in the volume entitled Shadowings. (2) Also spelled
Edo, the former name of Tokyo. THE STORY OF AOYAGI (1) An ancient province corresponding to the
northern part of present-day Ishikawa Prefecture.

(2) An ancient province corresponding to the eastern part of present-day
Fukui Prefecture. Priam he deemed
wonderfully happy in that he had seen his country perish at the same moment as his authority.
Accordingly he sent in different directions men feigning to be drunk or engaged in some indifferent
species of rascality and at first had one or two or more blazes quietly kindled in different
quarters: people, of course, fell into the utmost confusion, not being able to find any beginning
of the trouble nor to put any end to it, and meanwhile they became aware of many strange sights
and sounds. For soon there was nothing to be observed but many fires as in a camp, and no other
phrases fell from men's lips but "This or that is burning "; "Where?"; "How?"; "Who set it?";
"To the rescue!" An extraordinary perturbation laid hold on all wherever they might be, and
they ran about as if distracted, some in one direction and some in another. Some men in the
midst of assisting their neighbors would learn that their own premises were on fire. Others
received the first intimation of their own possessions being aflame when informed that they
were destroyed. Persons would run from their houses into the lanes with some idea of being
of assistance from the outside, or again they would dash into the dwellings from the streets,
appearing to think they could accomplish something inside. The shouting and screaming of children,
women, men, and graybeards all together were incessant, so that one could have no consciousness
nor comprehension of anything by reason of the smoke and shouting combined. On this account
some might be seen standing speechless, as if dumb. All this time many who were carrying out
their goods and many more who were stealing what belonged to others kept encountering one another
and falling over the merchandise. It was not possible to get anywhere, nor yet to stand still;
but people pushed and were pushed back, they upset others and were themselves upset, many were
suffocated, many were crushed: in fine, no evil that can possibly happen to men at such a crisis
failed to befall them. They could not with ease find even any avenue of escape, and, if any
one did save himself from some immediate danger, he usually fell into another one and was lost.

[Sidenote:--17--] This did not all take place on one day, but lasted for several days and nights
together. Many houses were destroyed through lack of some one to defend them and many were
set on fire in still more places by persons who presumably came to the rescue. For the soldiers
(including the night watch), having an eye upon plunder, instead of extinguishing any blaze
kindled greater conflagrations. While similar scenes were being enacted at various points a
sudden wind caught the fire and swept it over whatever remained. Consequently no one concerned
himself any longer about goods or houses, but all the survivors, standing in a place of safety,
gazed upon what seemed to be many islands and cities burning. There was no longer any grief
over individual losses, for it was swallowed up in the public lamentation, as men reminded
one another how once before most of their city had been similarly laid waste by the Gauls.
[Sidenote:--18--] While the whole population was in this state of mind and many crazed by the
disaster were leaping into the blaze itself, Nero mounted to the roof of the palace, where
nearly the whole conflagration could be taken in by a sweeping glance, and having assumed the
lyrist's garb he sang the Taking (as he said) of Ilium, which, to the ordinary vision, however,
appeared to be the Taking of Rome.

The calamity which the city at this time experienced has no parallel before or since, except
in the Gallic invasion. The whole Palatine hill, the theatre of Taurus, and nearly two-thirds
of the remainder of the city were burned and countless human beings perished. The populace
invoked curses upon Nero without intermission, not uttering his name but simply cursing those
who had set the city on fire: and this was especially the case because they were disturbed
by the memory of the oracle chanted in Tiberius's day. These were the words:--

  "Thrice three hundred cycles of tireless years being ended, Civil strife
  shall the Romans destroy." [Footnote: Compare Book Fifty-seven, chapter
  18.]

And when Nero by way of encouraging them reported that these verses were nowhere to be found,
they changed and went to repeating another oracle, which they averred to be a genuine Sibylline
production, namely:--

  "Last of the sons of Aeneas a matricide shall govern."

And so it proved, whether this was actually revealed beforehand by some divination or whether
the populace now for the first time gave it the form of a divine saying adapted to existing
circumstances. For Nero was indeed the last emperor of the Julian line descended from Aeneas.

He now began to collect vast sums from both individuals and nations, sometimes using compulsion,
with the conflagration for his excuse, and sometimes obtaining it by "voluntary" offers; and
the mass of the Romans had the food supply fund withdrawn.

[Sidenote:--19--] While he was so engaged, he received news from Armenia and soon after a laurel
wreath in honor of victory. The scattered bodies of soldiery in that region had been united
by Corbulo, who trained them sedulously after a period of neglect, and then by the very report
of his coming had terrified both Vologaesus, king of Parthia, and Tiridates, chief of Armenia.
He resembled the primitive Romans in that besides coming of a brilliant family and besides
possessing much strength of body he was still further gifted with a shrewd intelligence: and
he behaved with great bravery, with great fairness, and with great good faith toward all, both
friends and enemies. For these reasons Nero had despatched him to the scene of war in his own
stead and had entrusted to him a larger force than to anybody else, being equally assured that
the man would subdue the barbarians and would not revolt against him. And Corbulo proved neither
of these assumptions false.

All other men, however, had it as a particular grievance against him that he kept faith with
Nero. They were very anxious to get him as emperor in place of the actual despot, and this
conduct of his seemed to them his only defect.

[Sidenote:--20--] Corbulo, accordingly, had taken Artaxata without a struggle and had razed
the city to the ground. This exploit finished, he marched in the direction of Tigranocerta,
sparing all the districts that yielded themselves but devastating the lands of all such as
resisted him. Tigranocerta submitted to him voluntarily, and he performed other brilliant and
glorious deeds, as a result of which he induced the formidable Vologaesus to accept terms that
accorded with the Roman reputation. [For Vologaesus, on hearing that Nero had assigned Armenia
to others and that Adiabene was being ravaged by Tigranes, made preparations himself to go
on a campaign into Syria against Corbulo, but sent into Armenia Monobazus, king of Adiabene,
and Monaeses, a Parthian. These two had shut up Tigranes in Tigranocerta. But since they did
not succeed in harming him at all by their siege and as often as they tried conclusions with
him were repulsed by both the native troops and the Romans that were in his army, and since
Corbulo guarded Syria with extreme care, Vologaesus recognized the hopelessness of his attempt
and disbanded his forces. Then he sent to Corbulo and obtained peace on condition that he send
a new embassy to Nero, raise the siege, and withdraw his soldiers from Armenia. Nero made him
no immediate nor speedy nor definite reply, but despatched Lucius Caesennius Paetus to Cappadocia
to see to it that there should be no Armenian uprising.]

[Sidenote:--21--] [So Vologaesus attacked Tigranocerta and drove back Paetus, who had come
to its aid. When the latter fled he pursued him, beat back the garrison left by Paetus at the
Taurus, and shut him up in Rhandea, near the river Arsanias. Then he was on the point of retiring
without accomplishing anything; for destitute as he was of heavy-armed soldiers he could not
approach close to the wall, and he had no large stock of provender, particularly as he had
come at the head of a vast host without making arrangements for food supplies. Paetus, however,
stood in terror of his archery, which took effect in the very camp itself, as well as of the
cavalry, which kept appearing at all points. Hence he made peace proposals to his antagonist,
accepted his terms, and took an oath that he would himself abandon all of Armenia and that
Nero should give it to Tiridates. The Parthian was satisfied enough with this agreement, seeing
that he was to obtain control of the country without a contest and would be making the Romans
his debtors for a very considerable kindness. And, as he learned that Corbulo (whom Paetus
several times sent for before he was surrounded) was drawing near, he dismissed the beleaguered
soldiers, having first made them agree to build a bridge over the river Arsanias for him. He
was not really in need of a bridge, for he had crossed on foot, but he wished to give them
a practical example of the fact that he was stronger than they. Indeed, he did not retire by
way of the bridge even on this occasion, but rode across on an elephant, while the rest got
over as before.

[Sidenote:--22--] The capitulation had scarcely been made when Corbulo with inconceivable swiftness
reached the Euphrates and there waited for the retreating force. When the two armies approached
each other you would have been struck with the difference between them and between their generals:
one set were fairly aglow with delight at their rapidity; the others were grieved and ashamed
of their compact. Vologaesus sent Monaeses to Corbulo with the demand that the newcomer should
give up the fort in Mesopotamia. So they held a prolonged conference together right at the
bridge crossing the Euphrates, after first destroying the center of the structure. Corbulo
having promised to leave the country if the Parthian would also abandon Armenia, both of these
things were done temporarily until Nero could learn the outcome of the engagements and begin
negotiations with the envoys of Vologaesus, whom the latter had sent a second time. The answer
given them by the emperor was that he would bestow Armenia upon Tiridates if this aspirant
would come to Rome. Paetus was deposed from his command and the soldiers that had been with
him were sent somewhere else. Corbulo was again assigned to the war against the same foes.
Nero had intended to accompany the expedition in person, but after falling down during the
ceremony of sacrificing he would not venture to go abroad but remained where he was.]

[Sidenote:--23--] [Corbulo therefore officially prepared for war upon Vologaesus and sent a
centurion bidding him depart from the country. Privately, however, he suggested to the king
that he send his brother to Rome, and this advice met with acceptance, since Corbulo seemed
to have the stronger force. Thus it came about that they both, Corbulo and Tiridates, met at
no other place than Rhandea, which suited them both. It appealed to the Parthian because there
his people had cut off the Romans and had sent them away under a capitulation, a visible proof
of the favor that had been done them. To the Roman it appealed because his men were going to
wipe out the ill repute that had attached to them there before. For the meeting of the two
was not limited merely to conversation; a lofty platform had been erected on which were set
images of Nero, and in the presence of crowds of Armenians, Parthians, and Romans Tiridates
approached and did them reverence; after sacrificing to them and calling them by laudatory
names he took off the diadem from his head and set it upon them. Monobazus and Vologaesus also
came to Corbulo and gave him hostages. In honor of this event Nero was a number of times saluted
as imperator and held a triumph, contrary to precedent.] But Corbulo in spite of the large
force that he had and the very considerable reputation that he enjoyed did not rebel and was
never accused of rebellion. He might easily have been made emperor, since men thoroughly detested
Nero but all admired him in every way. [In addition to the more striking features of his submissive
behavior he voluntarily sent to Rome his son-in-law Annius, who served as his lieutenant; this
was done professedly that Annius might escort Tiridates back, but in fact this relative stood
in the position of a hostage to Nero. The latter was so firmly persuaded that his general would
not revolt that Corbulo obtained his son-in-law as lieutenant [Footnote: Reading [Greek: hyparchon]
(Boissevain) for [Greek: hypaton].] before he had been praetor.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 65 (a.u. 818)] [Sidenote:--24--] Seneca, however, and Rufus the prefect and
some other prominent men formed a plot against Nero. They could no longer endure his ignoble
behavior, his licentiousness, and his cruelty. They desired at one and the same time to be
rid of these evils and to give Nero his release from them. Indeed, Sulpicius Asper, a centurion,
and Subrius Flavius, a military tribune, both belonging to the body-guards, admitted this to
him point blank. Asper, when interrogated by the emperor as to the reason for his attempt,
replied: "I could help you in no other way." And the response of Flavins was: "I both loved
you and hated you above all men. I loved you, hoping that you would prove a good emperor: I
have hated you because you do so-and-so. I can not be slave to charioteer or lyre-player."--Information
was lodged and these men were punished, besides many others indirectly associated with them.
Everything in the nature of a complaint that could be entertained against any one for excessive
joy or grief, for words or gestures, was brought forward and was believed. Not one of these
complaints, even if fictitious, could be refused credence in view of Nero's actual deeds. Hence
conscienceless friends and house servants of some men flourished greatly. Persons guarded against
strangers and foes,--for of these they were suspicious,--but were bound to expose themselves
whether they would or no to their associates.

[Sidenote:--25--] It would be no small task to record details about most of those that perished,
but the fate of Seneca needs a few words by itself. It was his wish to end the life of his
wife Paulina at the same time with his own, for he declared that he had taught her to despise
death and that she desired to leave the world in company with him. So he opened her veins as
well as his own. As he failed, however, to yield readily to death, his end was hastened by
the soldiers; and his dying so speedily enabled Paulina to survive. He did not lay hands upon
himself, however, until he had revised the book which he had composed and had deposited with
various persons certain other valued possessions which he feared might come into Nero's hands
and be destroyed. Thus was Seneca forced to part with life in spite of the fact that he had
on the pretext of illness abandoned the society of the emperor and had bestowed upon him his
entire property, supposedly to help defray the expense of necessary building operations. His
brothers, too, perished after him.

[Sidenote:--26--] Likewise Thrasea and Soranus, who had no superiors in family, wealth, and
every excellence, met their death not because they were accused of conspiracy but because they
were what they were. Against Soranus Publius Egnatius Celer, a philosopher, gave false evidence.
The victim had had two associates,--Cassius Asclepiodotus of Nicaea and this Publius of Berytus.
Now Asclepiodotus so far from speaking against Soranus bore witness to his noble qualities;
he was at the time exiled for his pains, but later, under Galba, was restored. Publius in return
for his services as blackmailer received money and honors (as did others of the same profession),
but subsequently he was banished. Soranus was slain on the charge of having caused his daughter
to employ a species of magic, the foundation for this story being that when he was sick his
family had offered some sacrifices. Thrasea was executed for not appearing regularly at the
senate-house, thus showing that he did not like the measures passed, for not listening to the
emperor's singing and zither-playing, for not sacrificing to Nero's Divine Voice as did the
rest, and for not giving any public exhibitions: for it was remarked that at Patavium, his
native place, he had acted in a tragedy given in pursuance of some old custom at a festival
held every thirty years. As he made the incision in his artery, he raised his hand, exclaiming:
"To thee, Jupiter, patron of freedom, I pour this libation of blood."

[Sidenote:--27--] [And Junius Torquatus, a descendant of Augustus, made himself liable to a
most strange indictment. He had squandered his property in a rather lavish way, whether following
his native bent or with the intention of not being very rich. Nero therefore declared that,
as he lacked many things, he must be covetous of the goods of others, and consequently caused
a fictitious charge to be brought against him of aspiring to imperial power.]

And why should one be surprised that such complaints were fastened upon them, [Footnote: A
slight gap in the MS. exists here, filled by a doubtful conjecture of Boissevain's.] seeing
that one man [Footnote: Salvidienus Orfitus (according to Suetonius, Life of Nero, chap. 37).]
was brought to trial and slain for living near the Forum, for letting out some shops, or for
receiving a few friends in them; and another [Footnote: C. Cassius Longinus (ibid)..] because
he possessed a likeness of Cassius, the murderer of Caesar?

The conduct of a woman named Epicharis also deserves mention. She had been included in the
conspiracy and all its details had been trusted to her without reserve; yet she revealed none
of these though often tortured in all the ways that the skill of Tigillinus could devise. And
why should one enumerate the sums given to the Pretorians on the occasion of this conspiracy
or the excessive honors voted to Nero and his friends? Let me say only that it led to the banishment
of Rufus Musonius, the philosopher. Sabina also perished at this time through an act of Nero's.
Either accidentally or intentionally he had given her a violent kick while she was pregnant.

[Sidenote:--28--] The extremes of luxury indulged in by this Sabina I will indicate in the
briefest possible terms. She had gilded girths put upon the mules that carried her and caused
five hundred asses that had recently foaled to be milked each day that she might bathe in their
milk. She devoted great thought to making her person appear youthful and lustrously beautiful,--and
with brilliant results; and this is why, not fancying her appearance in a mirror one day, she
prayed that she might die before she passed her prime. Nero missed her so that [after her death,
at first, on learning that there was a woman resembling her he sent for and kept this female:
later] because a boy of the liberti class, named Sporus, resembled Sabina, he had him castrated
and used him in every way like a woman; and in due time he formally married him though he [Nero]
was already married to a freedman Pythagoras. He assigned the boy a regular dowry according
to contract, and Romans as well as others held a public celebration of their wedding.

While Nero had Sporus the eunuch as a wife, one of his associates in Rome, who had made a specialty
of philosophy, on being asked whether the marriage and cohabitation in question met with his
approval replied: "You do well, Caesar, to seek the company of such wives. If only your father
had had the same ambition and had dwelt with a similar consort!"--indicating that if this had
been the case, Nero would not have been born, and the government would have been relieved of
great evils.

This was, however, later. At the time with which we are immediately concerned many, as I stated,
were put to death and many who purchased their preservation with Tigillinus with a great price
were released.

[Sidenote:--29--] Nero continued to commit many ridiculous acts, among which may be cited his
descending at a kind of popular festival to the orchestra of the theatre, where he read some
Trojan lays of his own: and in honor of these there were offered numerous sacrifices, as there
were over everything else that he did. He was now making preparations to compile in verse a
narration of all the achievements of the Romans: before composing any of it, however, he began
to consider the proper number of books, and took as his adviser Annaeus Cornutus, who at this
time was famed for his learning. This man he came very near putting to death and did deport
to an island, because, while some were urging him to write four hundred books, Cornutus said
that was too many and nobody would read them. And when some one objected: "Yet Chrysippus,
whom you praise and imitate, has composed many more," the savant retorted: "But they are a
help to the conduct of men's lives." So Cornutus was punished with exile for this. Upon the plates
of the Knights of the Garter at Windsor, all degrees used the old
profile close helmet till about 1588, some few excepted; and soon
after, the helmet with barrs came into fashion, and was used for all
degrees of nobility, and it has continued ever since; and the same
has been used for all degrees of nobility upon the plates of the Knights
of the Bath, those that are knights only using a knight's helmet.

And the same may be observed in Sir Edward Walker's Books of the
Nobility from the Restoration to the Revolution, wherein all degrees
have the helmet turned towards the right, showing four barrs; the
sovereign's being full with seven barrs.

"G.***** HAMPDEN'S DEATH.

(Vol. viii., p. 495.)"

On the 21st of July, 1828, the corpse of John Hampden was disinterred
by the late Lord Nugent for the purpose of settling the disputed point
of history as to the manner in which the patriot received his death-wound.

The examination seems to have been conducted after a somewhat bungling
fashion for a scientific object, and the facts disclosed were these:'On
lifting up the right arm we found that it was dispossessed of its
hand.

We might therefore naturally conjecture that it had been amputated, as
the bone presented a perfectly flat appearance, as if sawn off by some
sharp instrument.

On searching under the cloths, to our no small astonishment we found the
hand, or rather a number of small bones, inclosed in a separate cloth.
For about six inches up the arm the flesh had wasted away, being
evidently smaller than the lower part of the left arm, to which the
hand was very firmly united, and which presented no symptoms of decay
further than the two bones of the forefinger loose.

Even the nails remained entire, of which we saw no appearance in the
cloth containing the remains of the right hand.... The clavicle of
the right shoulder was firmly united to the scapula, nor did there
appear any contusion or indentation that evinced symptoms of any wound
ever having been inflicted.

The left shoulder, on the contrary, was smaller and sunken in, as if the clavicle had been
displaced.

To{ 647} remove all doubts, it was adjudged necessary to remove
the arms, which were amputated with a penknife (!). The socket of the
left (sic) arm was perfectly white and healthy, and the clavicle firmly
united to the scapula, nor was there the least appearance of contusion
or wound.

The socket of the right (sic) shoulder, on the contrary, was of
a brownish cast, and the clavicle being found quite loose and disunited
from the scapula, proved that dislocation had taken place. The bones,
however, were quite perfect.'These appearances indicated that injuries
had been received both in the hand and shoulder, the former justifying
the belief in Sir Robert Pye's statement to the Harleys, that the
pistol which had been presented to him by Sir Robert, his son-in-law,
had burst and shattered his hand in a terrible manner at the action
of Chalgrave Field; the latter indicating that he had either been
wounded in the shoulder by a spent ball, or had received an injury
there by falling from his horse after his hand was shattered.

Of these wounds he died three or four days after, according to Sir Philip Warwick. According to Clarendon,'three
weeks after being shot into the shoulder with a brace of bullets, which broke the bone.'The bone,
however, was not found broken, and the'brace of bullets'is equally imaginary. "This account is
from a newspaper cutting of The News, August 3, 1828. W. S. Northiam.***** PETER ALLAN. (Vol. viii.,
pp. 539. 630.) Peter Allan deserves more than a brief notice. His history is so full of romance,
the relics of his name and fame are so many, and he is withal so little known, that I presume I
may on this occasion trespass on more than the ordinary space allotted to a" minor, "but which
should be a" major "Query. Peter Allan was born at Selkirk (?) in the year 1798. His parents
were peasants, and Peter in early life became valet to Mr. Williamson, brother of Sir Hedworth
Williamson. He afterwards became gamekeeper to the Marquis of Londonderry, and in that capacity
acquired a reputation as an unerring shot, and a man of unusual physical strength and courage.
He afterwards married, and became a publican at Whitburn, and in the course of few years purchased
a little property, and occupied himself in the superintendence of
dock works and stone quarries. Everything was in
readiness by the time night drew to a close and at daybreak Nero, wearing the triumphal garb
and accompanied by the senate and the Pretorians, entered the Forum. He ascended the rostra
and seated himself upon the chair of state. Next Tiridates and his suite passed through rows
of heavy-armed men drawn up on each side, took their stand close to the rostra, and did obeisance
to the emperor as they had done before. [Sidenote:--5--] At this a great roar went up which
so alarmed Tiridates that for some moments he stood speechless, in terror of his life. Then,
silence having been proclaimed, he recovered courage and quelling his pride made himself subservient
to the occasion and to his need, caring little how humbly he spoke, in view of the prize he
hoped to obtain. These were his words: "Master, I am the descendant of Arsaces, brother of
the princes Vologaesus and Pacorus, and thy slave. And I have come to thee, my deity, to worship
thee as I do Mithra. The destiny thou spinnest for me shall be mine: for thou art my Fortune
and my Fate."

Nero replied to him as follows: "Well hast thou done to come hither in person, that present
in my presence thou mayest enjoy my benefits. For what neither thy father left thee nor thy
brothers gave and preserved for thee, this do I grant thee. King of Armenia I now declare thee,
that both thou and they may understand that I have power to take away kingdoms and to bestow
them." At the end of these words he bade him come up the inclined plane built for this very
purpose in front of the rostra, and Tiridates having been made to sit beneath his feet he placed
the diadem upon his head. At this there was no end of shouts of all sorts. [Sidenote:--6--]
According to decree there also took place a celebration in the theatre. Not merely the stage
but the whole interior of the theatre round about had been gilded, and all properties brought
in had been adorned with gold, so that people came to refer to the very day as "golden." The
curtains stretched across the sky-opening to keep off the sun were of purple and in the centre
of them was an embroidered figure of Nero driving a chariot, with golden stars gleaming all
about him. So much for the setting: and of course they had a costly banquet.

Afterward Nero sang publicly with zither accompaniment and drove a chariot, clad in the costume
of the Greens and wearing a charioteer's helmet. This made Tiridates disgusted with him; but
for Corbulo the visitor had only praise and deemed the one thing against him to be that he
would put up with such a master. Indeed, he made no concealment of his views to Nero's face,
but one day said to him: "Master, you have in Corbulo a good slave." The person addressed,
however, did not comprehend his speech.--In all other matters he flattered the emperor and
ingratiated himself most skillfully, with the result that he received all kinds of gifts, said
to have possessed in the aggregate a value of five thousand myriads, and obtained permission
to rebuild Artaxata. Moreover, he took with him from Rome many artisans, some of whom he got
from Nero, and some whom he persuaded by offers of high wages. Corbulo, however, would not
let them all cross into Armenia, but only the ones whom Nero had given him. That caused Tiridates
to admire him all the more and to despise his chief.

[Sidenote:--7--] The return was made not by the same route as he followed in coming,--through
Illyricum and north of the Ionian Gulf,--but instead he sailed from Brundusium to Dyrrachium.
He viewed also the cities of Asia, which helped to increase his amazement at the strength and
beauty of the Roman empire.

Tiridates one day viewed an exhibition of pancratium. One of the contestants fell to the ground
and was being pummeled by his opponent. When the prince saw it, he exclaimed: "That's an unfair
contest. It isn't fair that a man who has fallen should be beaten."

On rebuilding Artaxata Tiridates named it Neronia. But Vologaesus though often summoned refused
to come to Nero, and finally, when the latter's invitations became burdensome to him, sent
back a despatch to this effect: "It is far easier for you than for me to traverse so great
a body of water. Therefore, if you will come to Asia, we can then arrange [where we shall be
able] to meet each other." [Such was the message which the Parthian wrote at last.]

[Sidenote:--8--] Nero though angry at him did not sail against him, nor yet against the Ethiopians
or the Caspian Pylae, as he had intended. [He saw that the subjugation of these regions demanded
time and labor and hoped that they would submit to him of their own accord:] and he sent spies
to both places. But he did cross over into Greece, not at all as Flamininus or Mummius or as
Agrippa and Augustus his ancestors had done, but for the purpose of chariot racing, of playing
and singing, of making proclamations, and of acting in tragedies. Rome was not enough for him,
nor Pompey's theatre, nor the great hippodrome, but he desired also a foreign tour, in order
to become, as he said, victor in all the four contests. [Footnote: Literally "victor of the
periodos." This was a name applied to an athlete who had conquered in the Pythian, Isthmian,
Nemean and Olympian games.] And a multitude not only of Augustans but of other persons were
taken with him, large enough, if it had been a hostile host, to have subdued both Parthians
and all other nations. But they were the kind you would have expected Nero's soldiers to be,
and the arms they carried were zithers and plectra, masks and buskins. The victories Nero won
were such as befitted that sort of army, and he overcame Terpnus and Diodorus and Pammenes,
instead of Philip or Perseus or Antiochus. It is probable that his purpose in forcing the Pammenes
referred to, who had been in his prime in the reign of Gaius, to compete in spite of his age,
was that he might overcome him and vent his dislike in abuse of his statues.

[Sidenote: A.D. 67 (?)] [Sidenote:--9--] Had he done only this, he would have been the subject
of ridicule. So how could one endure to hear about, let alone seeing, an emperor, an Augustus,
listed on the program among the contestants, training his voice, practicing certain songs,
wearing long hair on his head but with his chin shaven, throwing his toga over his shoulder
in the races, walking about with one or two attendants, eyeing his adversaries suspiciously
and ever and anon throwing out a word to them in the midst of a boxing match; how he dreaded
the directors of the games and the wielders of the whip and spent money on all of them secretly
to avoid being shown up in his true colors and whipped; and how all that he did to make himself
victor in the citharoedic contest only contributed to his defeat in the Contest of the Caesars?
How find words to denounce the wickedness of this proscription in which it was not [Footnote:
[Greek: oi] supplied by Reiske.] Sulla that bulletined the names of others, but Nero bulletined
his own name? What victory less deserves the name than that by which one receives the olive,
the laurel, the parsley, or the fir-tree garland, and loses the political crown? And why should
one bewail these acts of his alone, seeing that he also by treading on the high-soled buskins
lowered himself from his eminence of power, and by hiding behind the mask lost the dignity
of his sovereignty to beg in the guise of a runaway slave, to be led like a blind man, to conceive,
to bear children, to go mad [to drive a chariot], as he acted out time after time the story
of Oedipus, and of Thyestes, of Heracles and Alemeon, and of Orestes? The masks he wore were
sometimes made to resemble the characters and sometimes had his own likeness. The women's masks
were all fashioned to conform to the features of Sabina [in order that though dead she might
still move in stately procession. All the situations that common actors simulate in their acting
he, too, would undertake to present, by speech, by action, by being acted upon,--save only
that] golden chains were used to bind him: apparently it was not thought proper for a Roman
emperor to be bound in iron shackles.

[Sidenote:--10--] All this behavior, nevertheless, the soldiers and all the rest saw, endured,
and approved. They entitled him Pythian Victor, Olympian Victor, National Victor, Absolute
Victor, besides all the usual expressions, and of course added to these names the honorific
designations belonging to his imperial office, so that every one of them had "Caesar" and "Augustus"
as a tag.

He conceived a dislike for a certain man because while he was speaking the man frowned and
was not overlavish of his praises; and so he drove him away and would not let him come into
his presence. He persisted in his refusal to grant him audience, and when the person asked:
"Where shall I go, then?" Phoebus, Nero's freedman, replied: "To the deuce!"

No one of the people ventured either to pity or to hate the wretched creature. One of the soldiers,
to be sure, on seeing him bound, grew indignant, ran up, and set him free. Another in reply
to a question: "What is the emperor doing?" had to answer: "He is in labor pains," for Nero
was then acting the part of Canace. Not one of them conducted himself in a way at all worthy
of a Roman. Instead, because so much money fell to their share, they offered prayers that he
might give many such performances and they in this way get still more.

[Sidenote:--11--] And if things had merely gone on like this, the affair, while being a source
of shame and of ridicule alike, would still have been deemed free from danger. But as a fact
he devastated the whole of Greece precisely as if he had been despatched to some war and without
regard to the fact that he had declared the country free, also slaying great numbers [of men,
women and children. At first he commanded the children and freedmen of those who were executed
to leave him half their property at their death, and allowed the original victims to make wills
in order to make it seem less likely that he had killed them for their money; and he invariably
took all that was bequeathed to him, if not more. In case any one left to him or to Tigillinus
less than they were expecting, the wills were of no avail.--Later he deprived persons of their
entire property and banished all their children at once by one decree. Not even this satisfied
him, but he destroyed not a few of the exiles.] For no one could begin to enumerate all the
confiscated possessions of men allowed to live and all the votive offerings that he stole from
the very temples in Rome. [The despatch-bearers hurried hither and thither with no piece of
news other than "kill this man!" or that that man was dead. No private messages, only state
documents, were delivered; for Nero had taken many of the foremost men to Greece under pretence
of needing some assistance from them merely in order that they might perish there. [Sidenote:--12--]
The whole population of Rome and Italy he surrendered like captives to a certain Helius, a
Caesarian. The latter had been given absolutely complete authority, so that he might confiscate,
banish, and put to death (even before notifying Nero) ordinary persons, knights, and senators
alike.]

Thus the Roman domain was at that time a slave to two emperors at once,--Nero and Helius; and
I do not feel able to say which was the worse. In most respects they behaved entirely alike,
and the one point of difference was that the descendant of Augustus was emulating zither-players,
whereas the freedman of Claudius was emulating Caesars. I consider the acts of Tigillinus as
a part of Nero's career because he was constantly with him: but Polyclitus and Calvia Crispinilla
by themselves plundered, sacked, despoiled all the places they could get at. The former was
associated with Helius at Rome, and the latter with Sabina, born Sporus. Calvia had been entrusted
with the care of the boy and with the oversight of the wardrobe, though a woman and of high
rank; and she saw to it that all were stripped of their possessions.

[Sidenote:--13--] Now Nero called Sporus Sabina not merely on account of the fact that by reason
of resemblance to her he had been made a eunuch, but because the boy like the mistress had
been solemnly contracted to him in Greece, with Tigillinus to give the bride away, as the law
ordained. All the Greeks held a festal celebration of their marriage, uttering all the customary
good wishes (as they could not well help) even to the extent of praying that legitimate children
might be born to them. After that Nero took to himself two bedfellows, Pythagoras to treat
as a man and Sporus as a woman. The latter, in addition to other forms of address, was termed
lady, queen, and mistress.

Yet why should one wonder at this, seeing that this monarch would fasten naked boys and girls
to poles, and then putting on the hide of a wild beast would approach them and satisfy his
brutal lust under the appearance of devouring parts of their bodies? Such were the indecencies
of Nero.

When he received the senators he wore a short flowered tunic with muslin collar, for he had
already begun to transgress precedent in wearing ungirt tunics in public. It is stated also
that knights belonging to the army used in his reign for the first time saddle-cloths during
their public review.

[Sidenote:--14--] At the Olympic games he fell from the chariot he was driving and came very
near being crushed to death: yet he was crowned victor. In acknowledgment of this favor he
gave to the Hellanodikai the twenty-five myriads which Galba later demanded back from them.
[And to the Pythia he gave ten myriads for giving some responses to suit him: this money Galba
recovered.] Again, whether from vexation at Apollo for making some unpleasant predictions to
him or because he was merely crazy, he took away from the god the territory of Cirrha and gave
it to the soldiers. In fact, he abolished the oracle, slaying men and throwing them into the
rock fissure from which the divine afflatus arose. He contended in every single city that boasted
any contest, and in all cases requiring the services of a herald he employed for that purpose
Cluvius Rufus, an ex-consul. Athens and the Lacedaemonians were exceptions to this rule, being
the only places that he did not visit at all. He avoided the second because of the laws of
Lycurgus, which stood in the way of his designs, and the former because of the story about
the Furies.--The proclamation ran: "Nero Caesar wins this contest and crowns the Roman people
and his world." Possessing according to his own statement a world, he went on singing and playing,
making proclamations, and acting tragedies.

[Sidenote:--15--] His hatred for the senate was so fierce that he took particular pleasure
in Vatinius, who kept always saying to him: "I hate you, Caesar, for being of senatorial rank."--I
have used the exact expression that he uttered.--Both the senators and all others were constantly
subjected to the closest scrutiny in their entrances, their exits, their attitudes, their gestures,
their outcries. Mr. Parkes expresses the opinion, based upon careful observation, that five hundred
times as much water enters at the crevices as through the pores of the tiles! If this be so,
we may as well, for all practical purposes, regard the water as all entering at the joints.
In several experiments which we have attempted, we have found the quantity of water that enters
through the pores to be quite too small to be of much practical account.

Tiles differ so much in porosity, that it is difficult to make experiments
that can be satisfactory-- soft-burnt tiles being, like pale bricks,
quite pervious, and hard-burnt tiles being nearly or quite impervious.

The amount of pressure upon the clay in moulding also affects the density and porosity of tiles. Water should
enter at the bottom of the tiles, and not at the top. It is a well-known fact in draining,
that the deepest drain flows first and longest. A familiar illustration will make this point evident.
If a cask or deep box be filled with sand, with one hole near the
bottom and another half way to the top, these holes will represent
the tiles in a drain.

If water be poured into the sand, it will pass downward to the bottom
of the vessel, and will not flow out of either hole till the sand
be saturated up to the lower hole, and then it will flow out there.

If, now, water be poured in faster than the lower hole can discharge it, the vessel will be filled
higher, till it will run out at both holes. It is manifest, however, that it will first cease
to flow from the upper orifice. There is in the soil a line of water, called the "water-line,"
or "water-table;" and this, in drained land, is at about the level of the bottom of the tiles.
As the rain falls it descends, as in the vessel; and as the water rises, it enters the tiles at
the bottom, and never at the top, unless there is more than can pass out of the soil by the
lower openings (the crevices and pores) into the tiles. It is well always to interrupt the direct
descent of water by percolation from the surface to the top of the tiles, because, in passing
so short a distance in the soil, the water is not sufficiently filtered, especially in soil
so recently disturbed, but is likely to carry with it not only valuable elements of fertility,
but also particles of sand, which may obstruct the drain. This is prevented by placing above
the tiles (after they are covered a few inches with gravel, sand, or other porous soil) compact
clay, if convenient. If not, a furrow each side of the drain, or a heaping-up of the soil over
the drain, when finished, will turn aside the surface-water, and prevent such injury. In the estimates
as to the area of the openings between pipes, it should be considered that the spaces between the pipes
are not, in fact, clean openings of one-tenth of an inch, but are partially closed by earthy particles,
and that water enters them by no means as rapidly as it would enter the clean pipes before they are
covered. Although the rain-fall in England is much less in quantity and much more regular than
in this country, yet it is believed that the use of two-inch pipes will be found abundantly
sufficient for the admission and conveyance of any quantity of water
that it may be necessary to carry off by drainage in common soils.

In extraordinary cases, as where the land drained is a swamp, or
reservoir for water which falls on the hills around, larger pipes
must be used. In many places in England "tops and bottoms," or horse-shoe
tiles, are still preferred by farmers, upon the idea that they admit the
water more readily; but their use is continued only by those who
have never made trial of pipes.

No scientific drainer uses any but pipes in England, and the million of acres well drained with them,
is pretty good evidence of their sufficiency. In this country, horse-shoe tiles have been much
used in Western New York, and have been found to answer a good purpose; and so it may be said
of the sole-pipes.

Indeed, it is believed that no instance is to be found on record in America of the failure of tile
drains, from the inability of the water to gain admission at the
joints.

It may be interesting in this connection to state, that water is 815 times heavier than air. Here
is a drain at four feet depth in the ground, filled only with air, and open at the end so that the
air can go out. Above this open space is four feet of earth saturated with water. What is the
pressure of the water upon the tiles? Mr. Thomas Arkell, in a communication to the Society of
Arts, in England, says-- "The pressure due to a head of water four
or five feet, may be imagined from the force with which water will
come through the crevices of a hatch with that depth of water above
it.

Now, there is the same pressure of water to enter the vacuum in the pipe-drain as there is against
the hatches, supposing the land to be full of water to the surface."

It is difficult to demonstrate the truth of this theory; but the same opinion has been expressed to
the writer by persons of learning and of practical skill, based upon observations as to the entrance
of water into gas pipes, from which it is almost, if not quite, impossible
to exclude it by the most perfect joints in iron pipes.

Whatever be the theory as to pressure, or the difficulties as to
the water percolating through compact soils to the tiles, there will
be no doubt left on the mind of any one, after one experiment tried
in the field, that, in common cases, all the surplus water that reaches
the tiles is freely admitted.

A gentleman, who has commenced draining his farm, recently, in New
Hampshire, expressed to the author his opinion, that tiles in his
land admitted the water as freely as a hole of a similar size to the
bore of the tile would admit it, if it could be kept open through
the soil without the tile.

DURABILITY OF TILE DRAINS. How long will they last? This is the first and most important question.
Men, who have commenced with open ditches, and, having become disgusted with the deformity, the
inconvenience, and the inefficiency of them, have then tried bushes, and boards, and turf,
and found them, too, perishable; and again have used stones, and
after a time seen them fail, through obstructions caused by moles
or frost-- these men have the right to a well-considered answer to
this question.

The foolish fellow in the Greek Reader, who, having heard that a crow would live a hundred years,
purchased one to verify the saying, probably did not live long enough to ascertain that it was true. How
long a properly laid tile-drain of hard-burnt tiles will endure, has not been
definitely ascertained, but it is believed that it will outlast the
life of him who lays it.

No tiles have been long enough laid in the United States to test this question by experience,
and in England no further result seems to have been arrived at, than that the work is a permanent improvement.
In another part of this treatise, may be found some account of Land Drainage Companies, and
of Government loans in aid of improvements by drainage in Great Britain. One of these acts provides for
a charge on the land for such improvements, to be paid in full in fifty years. That is to say,
the expense of the drainage is an incumbrance like a mortgage on the land, at a certain rate
of interest, and the tenant or occupant of the land, each year pays
the interest and enough more to discharge the debt in just fifty
years.

Thus, it is assumed by the Government, that the improvement will last
fifty years in its full operation, because the last year of the fifty
pays precisely the same as every other year.

It may therefore be considered as the settled conviction of all branches of the British government,
and of all the best-informed, practical land-drainers in that country, that TILE-DRAINAGE WILL
ENDURE FIFTY YEARS AT LEAST, if properly executed. This is long enough to satisfy any American; for
the migratory habits of our citizens, and the constant changes of cultivated fields into village
and city lots, prevent our imagination even conceiving the idea that
we or our posterity can remain for half a century upon the same farm.

It is much easier, however, to lay tile-drains so that they will not
be of use half of fifty years, than to make them permanent in their effect.
Tile-drainage, it cannot be too much enforced, is an operation requiring
great care and considerable skill-- altogether more care and skill
than our common laborers, or even most of our farmers, are accustomed
to exercise in their farm operations.

A blunder in draining, like the blunder of a physician, may be soon
concealed by the grass that grows over it, but can never be corrected.
Drainage is a new art in this country, and tile-making is a new art.

Without good, hard-burnt tiles, no care or skill can make permanent work. Tile-drainage will
endure so long as the tiles last, if the work be properly done. There is no reason why a tile should
not last in the ground as long as a brick will last.

Bricks will fall to pieces in the ground in a very short time if not hard-burnt, while hard-burnt
bricks of good clay will last as long as granite. Tiles must be hard-burnt in order to endure. But
this is not all. Drains fail from various other causes than the crumbling of the tiles. They
are frequently obstructed by mice, moles, frogs, and vermin of all kinds, if not protected at
the outlet. They are often destroyed by the treading of cattle, and by the deposit of mud
at the outlet, through insufficient care. They are liable to be filled with sand, through want of
care in protecting the joints in laying, and through want of collars, and other means of keeping
them in line.

They are liable, too, to fill up by deposits of sand and the like, by being laid lower in some places
than the parts nearer the outlet, so that the slack places catch and retain whatever is brought
down, till the pipe is filled.

FROST is an enemy which in this country we have to contend with, more than in any other, where tile-drainage
has been much practiced. Upon all these points, remarks will be found under the appropriate heads;
and these suggestions are repeated here, because we know that haste
and want of skill are likely to do much injury to the cause which
we advocate.

Any work that requires only energy and progress, is safe in American hands; but cautious and
slow operations are by no means to their taste. Dickens says, that on railways and coaches, wherever
in England they say, "All right," the Americans use, instead, the phrase, "Go ahead." In tile-drainage,
the motto, "All right," will be found far more safe than the motto,
"Go ahead."

Instances
are given in England of drains laid with handmade tiles, which have operated well for thirty
years, and have not yet failed. Mr. Parkes informs us: "That, about 1804, pipe-tiles made tapering,
with one end entering the other, and two inches in the smallest point,
were laid down in the park now possessed by Sir Thomas Whichcote,
Aswarby, Lincolnshire, and that they still act well."

Stephens gives the following instance of the durability of bricks
used in draining: "Of the durability of common brick, when used in
drains, there is a remarkable instance mentioned by Mr. George Guthrie,
factor to the Earl of Stair or Calhoun, Wigtonshire.

In the execution of modern draining on that estate, some brick-drains, on being intersected, emitted
water very freely. According to documents which refer to these drains, it
appears that they had been formed by the celebrated Marshal, Earl
Stair, upwards of a hundred years ago.

They were found between the vegetable mould and the clay upon which it rested, between the'wet
and the dry,'as the country phrase has it, and about thirty-one inches below the surface. They
presented two forms-- one consisting of two bricks set asunder on
edge, and the other two laid lengthways across them, leaving between
them an opening of four inches square for water, but having no soles.

The bricks had not sunk in the least through the sandy clay bottom upon which they rested, as
they were three inches broad. The other form was of two bricks laid side by side, as a sole, with two
others built or laid on each other, at both sides, upon the solid
ground, and covered with flat stones, the building being packed on
each side of the drain with broken bricks."

In our chapter upon the "Obstruction of Drains," the various causes which operate against the permanency
of drains, are more fully considered. DIRECTION OF DRAINS. Whether drains should run up and down
the slope of the hill, or directly across it, or in a diagonal line
as a compromise between the first two, are questions which beginners
in the art and mystery of drainage usually discuss with great zeal.

It seems so plain to one man, at the first glance, that, in order to catch the water that is running
down under the soil upon the subsoil, from the top of the hill to
the bottom, you must cut a ditch across the current, that he sees
no occasion to examine the question farther.

Another, whose idea is, to catch the water in his drain before it rises to the surface, as it is
passing up from below or running along on the subsoil, and keep it from rising higher than the
bottom of his ditch, thinks it quite as obvious that the drains should run up and down the slope, that
the water, once entering, may remain in the drain, going directly
down hill to the outlet.

A third hits on the Keythorpe system, and regarding the water as flowing down the slope, under
the soil, in certain natural channels in the subsoil, fancies they
may best be cut off by drains, in the nature of mains, running diagonally
across the slope.

These different ideas of men, if examined, will be found to result
mainly from their different notions of the underground circulation
of water.

In considering
the Theory of Moisture, an attempt was made to suggest the different causes of the wetness of land.
To drain land effectually, we must have a correct idea of the sources
of the water that makes the particular field too wet; whether it falls
from the clouds directly upon it; or whether it falls on land situated
above it and sloping towards it, so that the water runs down, as upon
a roof, from other fields or slopes to our own; or whether it gushes
up in springs which find vent in particular spots, and so is diffused
through the soil.

If we have only to take care of the water that falls on our own field, from the clouds, that
is quite a different matter from draining the whole adjoining region, and requires a different
mode of operation.

If your field is in the middle, or at the foot, of an undrained slope,
from which the water runs on the surface over your land, or soaks
through it toward some stream or swamp below, provision must be made
not only for drainage of your own field, but also for partial drainage
of your neighbor's above, or at least for defence against his surplus
of water.

The first, and leading idea to be kept in mind, as governing this
question of the direction of drains, is the simple fact that water runs
down hill; or, to express the fact more scientifically, water constantly
seeks a lower level by the force of gravitation, and the whole object
of drains is to open lower and still lower passages, into which the
water may fall lower and lower until it is discharged from our field
at a safe depth.

Water goes down, then, by its own weight, unless there is something through which it cannot
readily pass, to bring it out at the surface. It will go into the drains, only because they are
lower than the land drained. It will never go upward to find a drain, and it will go toward a drain
the more readily, in proportion as the descent is more steep toward it. To decide properly
what direction a drain should have, it is necessary, then, to have a definite and a correct
idea as to what office the drain is to perform, what water is to fall into it, what land it is
to drain. Suppose the general plan to be, to lay drains forty feet apart, and four feet deep
over the field, and the question now to be determined, as to the direction, whether across, or up
and down the slope, there being fall enough to render either course
practicable.

The first point of inquiry is, what is expected of each drain? How much and what land should
it drain? The general answer must be, forty feet breadth, either up and down the slope, or across
it; according to the direction.

But we must be more definite in our inquiry than even this. From what forty feet of land will
the water fall into the drain?

Obviously, from some land in which the water is higher than the bottom
of the drain.

If, then, the drain run directly across the slope, most of the water that can fall into it, must come
from the forty feet breadth of land between the drain in question, and the drain next above it.
If the water were falling on an impervious surface, it would all run according to the slope of
the surface, in which case, by the way, no drains but those across, could catch any of it except
what fell upon the drains. But the whole theory of drainage is otherwise, and is based on the
idea that we change the course of the underground flow, by drawing out the water at given points
by our drains; or, in other words, that "the water seeks the lowest level in all directions."
Upon the best view the writer has been able to take of the two systems as to the direction of drains,
there is but a very small advantage in theory in favor of either
over the other, in soil which is homogeneous. But it must be borne
in mind that homogeneous soil is rather the exception in nature than
the rule.

Without undertaking to advance or defend any peculiar geological views of the structure of the earth,
or of the depositions or formations that compose its surface, it may be said, that very often
the first four feet of subsoil is composed of strata, or layers of
earth of varying porosity.

Beneath sand will be found a stratum of clay, or of compact or cemented gravel, and frequently
these strata are numerous and thin. Indeed, if there be not some stratum below the soil, which impedes
the passage of water, it would pass downward, and the land would
need no artificial drainage.

Quite often it will be found that the dip or inclination of the various strata below the soil
is different from that of the surface. The surface may have a considerable
slope, while the lower strata lie nearly level, as if they had been
cut through by artificial grading. The following figure from the Cyclopedia
of Agriculture, with the explanation, fully illustrates this idea. "In
many subsoils there are thin partings, or layers, of porous materials,
interspersed between the strata, which, although not of sufficient
capacity to give rise to actual springs, yet exude sufficient water
to indicate their presence.

These partings occasionally crop out, and give rise to those damp spots, which are to be seen
diversifying the surface of fields, when the drying breezes of Spring have begun to act upon them.
In the following cut, the light lines represent such partings." Now, it will be evident, in draining
such land, that if the drains be disposed in a direction transverse or oblique to the slope,
it will often happen that the drains, no matter how skillfully planned, will not reach these
partings at all, as at A. In this case, the water will continue to
flow on in its accustomed channel, and discharge its waters at B.
"But again, even though it does reach these partings, as at C, a considerable
portion of water will escape from the drain itself, and flow to the
lower level of its old point of discharge at D. Whereas, a drain cut
in the line of the slope, as from D to E, intersects all these partings,
and furnishes an outlet to them at a lower level than their old ones."

These reasons are, it is true, applicable only to land of peculiar structure; but there are
reasons for selecting the line of greatest fall for the direction of drains which are applicable to all
lands alike. "The line of the greatest fall is the only line in which a drain is relatively lower
than the land on either side of it." Whether we regard the surplus water as having recently fallen
upon the field, and as being stopped near the surface by an impervious
stratum, or as brought down on these strata from above, we have it
to be disposed of as it rests upon this stratum, and is borne out
by it to the surface.

If there is a decided dip, or inclination, of this stratum outward down the slope, it is manifest that
the water cannot pass backward to a cross drain higher up the slope. The course of the water must
be downward upon the stratum on which it lies, and so all between two cross drains must pass to the
lower one.

  The upper drain could take very little, if any, and the greater the inclination
of this stratum, the less could flow backward. But in such case a
drain down the slope gives to the water borne up by these strata, an
outlet of the depth of the drain.

If the drain be four feet deep, it cuts the water-bearing strata each at that depth, and takes
off the water. In these cases, the different layers of clay or other
impervious "partings," are like the steps of a huge stairway, with
the soil filling them up to a regular grade.

The ditch cuts through these steps, letting the water that rests on them fall off at the ends,
instead of running over the edges. Drains across the slope have been significantly termed "mere catch-waters."
If we wish to use water to irrigate lands, we carefully conduct it along the surface across
the slope, allowing it to flow over and to soak through the soil. If we desire to carry the same water
off the field as speedily as possible, we should carry our surface
ditch directly down the slope. The
event was likewise foretold by unmistakable omens. He beheld in visions the Goddess of Fortune
telling him that she had now stuck by him for a long time yet no one appeared ready to take
her into his house; and if she should be barred out much longer she should take up her abode
with some one else. During those very days also boats full of weapons and under the guidance
of no human being came to anchor off the coast of Spain. And a mule brought forth young, an
occurrence which had been previously interpreted as destined to portend the possession of authority
by him. Again, a boy that was bringing him incense in the course of a sacrifice suddenly had
his hair turn gray; whereupon the seers declared that dominion over the younger generation
should be given to his old age.

[Sidenote:--2--] These, then, were the signs given beforehand that had a bearing on his sovereignty.
Personally his conduct was in most ways moderate and he avoided giving offence since he bore
in mind that he had not taken the emperor's seat but it had been given him;--indeed, he said
so frequently:--unfortunately, he collected money greedily since his wants were numerous, though
he spent comparatively little after all, bestowing upon some persons not even denarii but merely
asses. His freedmen, however, committed a great number of wrongs, the responsibility for which
was laid upon him. Ordinary individuals need only keep themselves from crime, but those who
hold sovereign power must see to it that no dependent of theirs practices villany either. For
it makes little difference to the ones who suffer wrong at whose hands they happen to be ill
treated. Consequently, even though Galba abstained from inflicting injury, yet he was ill spoken
of because he allowed these others to commit crimes, or at least was ignorant of what was taking
place. Nymphidius and Capito, in particular, were allowed by him to run riot. For instance,
Capito, when one day some one appealed a case from his jurisdiction, changed his seat hastily
to a high chair near by and then cried out: "Now plead your case before Caesar!" He went through
the form of deciding it and had the man put to death. Galba felt obliged to proceed against
them for this.

[Sidenote:--3--] As he drew near the City, the guards of Nero met him and asked that their
organization be preserved intact. At first he was for postponing his decision and averred that
he wanted to think the matter over. Since, however, they would not obey but kept up a clamor,
the army submitted to them. As a consequence about seven thousand of his soldiers lost their
lives and the guardsmen were decimated. This shows that even if Galba was bowed down with age
and disease, yet his spirit was keen and he did not believe in an emperor's being compelled
to do anything unwillingly. A further proof is that when the Pretorians asked him for the money
which Nymphidius had promised them, he would not give it, but replied: "I am accustomed to
levy soldiers, not to buy them." And when the populace brought urgent pressure to bear on him
to kill Tigillinus and some others who had before been wantonly insolent, he would not yield,
though he would probably have disposed of them had not their enemies made this demand. Helius,
however, as well as Narcissus, Patrobius, Lucusta the poison merchant, and some others who
had been active in Nero's day, he ordered to be carried in chains all over the city and afterwards
to receive punishment. The slaves, likewise, who had been guilty of any act or speech detrimental
to their masters were handed over to the latter for punishment.

Some disdained receiving their own slaves, wishing to be rid of rascally slaves.

Galba demanded the return of all moneys and objects of value which any persons had received
from Nero. However, if anybody had been exiled by the latter on the charge of impiety towards
the emperor, he restored him to citizenship; and he also transferred to the tomb of Augustus
the bones of members of the imperial family who had been murdered, and he set up their images anew.

For this he was praised. On the other hand he was the victim of uproarious laughter for wearing
a sword whenever he walked on the street, since he was so old and weak of sinew.

[Sidenote: A.D. 69 (a.u. 822)] [Sidenote:--4--] I shall relate also the circumstances of his
death. The soldiers in Germany under control of Rufus became more and more excited because
they could not obtain any favors from Galba; and, having failed to secure the object of their
desire through the medium of Rufus, they sought to obtain it through somebody else. This they
did. With Aulus Vitellius, governor of Lower Germany, at their head they revolted. All that
they had in mind regarding him was the nobility of his birth, and they paid no attention to
the fact that he had been a favorite of Tiberius and was a slave to the licentious habits of
his former master; or perhaps they thought that on this very account he would suit their purpose
all the better. Indeed, Vitellius himself deemed himself of so little account that he made
fun of the astrologers and used their prediction as evidence against them, saying: "Certainly
they know nothing who declare that I shall become emperor." Nero when he heard it also laughed,
and felt such contempt for the fellow that he did not try to injure him.

[Sidenote:--5--] Galba on being informed of his defection adopted Lucius Piso, a youth of good
family, affable and prudent, and appointed him Caesar. At the same time Marcus Salvius Otho,
angry because he had not been adopted by Galba, brought about once more a beginning of countless
evils for the Romans. He was always held in honor by Galba, so much so that on the day of the
latter's death he was the only one of the senators to attend him at the sacrifice. And to him
most of all was the catastrophe due. For when the diviner declared that Galba would be the
victim of conspiracy and therefore urged him by no means to go abroad anywhere, Otho heard
it, and hastening down immediately as if on some other errand was admitted within the wall
by some few soldiers who were in the conspiracy with him. The next step was the winning over
or rather the buying up of the rest, who were displeased at Galba, by means of many promises.
From them he received the imperial office at once and later his claim was acknowledged by the
others. [Sidenote:--6--] Galba on learning what was taking place thought he could bring the
men into a better frame of mind and sent some emissaries to the camp for this purpose. Meanwhile
a soldier holding aloft a bare blade covered with blood had approached him and said: "Be of
good cheer, emperor: I have killed Otho, and no further danger awaits you." Galba, believing
this, said to him: "And who ordered you to do that?" He himself started for the Capitol to
offer sacrifice. As he reached the middle of the Roman Forum, horsemen and footsoldiers met
him and then and there cut down in the presence of many senators and crowds of plebeians the
old man, their consul, high priest, Caesar, emperor. After abusing his body in many ways they
cut off his head and stuck it on a pole.--So he was struck by a javelin hurled into the very
chair in which he was being carried, was wounded at the very moment he was bending forward
from it, and only said: "Why, what harm have I done?" Sempronius Densus, a centurion, defended
him as long as he was able, and finally, when he could accomplish nothing, let himself be slain
with his sovereign. This is why I have included his name, for he richly deserves to be mentioned.
Piso also was killed and numerous others, but not in aiding the emperor.

When the soldiers had done this, they cut off their heads, which they then carried to Otho
(who was in the camp) and also into the senate-house; and the senators, though terror-stricken,
affected to be glad.

Galba had lived seventy-two years and twenty-three days, out of which he ruled nine months
and thirteen days. Piso perished after him, making this atonement for having been appointed Caesar.

[Sidenote:--7--] This was the end that befell Galba. But retribution was destined full soon
enough to seek out Otho in his turn, as he at once learned. As he was offering his first sacrifice,
the omens were seen to be unfavorable, so that he repented of what had been done and said:
"What need was there of my playing on the long flutes?" This is a colloquial and proverbial
expression that has reference to those who do anything out of their usual line. Later he was
so disturbed in his sleep at night that he fell out of the bed and alarmed the guards who slept
at the door. They rushed in and found him lying on the ground. Yet once he had entered upon
the imperial office he could not put it off; and he remained in it and paid the penalty, in
spite of many temperate acts intended to conciliate people. It was not particularly his nature
to behave that way, but since on account of Vitellius his prospects were in a somewhat precarious
state, he did not wish to alienate the bulk of the population.

Just at this time, to be sure, he annulled the sentences against some senators and granted
various slight favors to others. By way of gaining the public approval he constantly frequented
the theatres: he bestowed citizenship upon foreigners and made many other attractive announcements.
Yet he did not succeed in winning the attachment of any one save a certain few, like himself.
[For his restoration of the images of those under accusation and] his life and habits, his
keeping Sporus as a companion and employing the rest of the Neronians, alarmed everybody.

[Sidenote:--8--] Moreover, the senate voted him all the privileges pertaining to his office.
He said that he had been forced to do as he did, had been brought within the walls against
his will, and had actually risked his life after that by opposing the scheme. He regularly
talked in a considerate manner and assumed a kindly expression and attitude; he threw kisses
on his fingers to everybody and made many promises. But the fact did not escape men that his
rule was sure to be more licentious and oppressive than Nero's. (Indeed, he had immediately
applied to himself the latter's name).

[Sidenote:--9--] They hated him most of all, however, because he had demonstrated the fact
that the imperial office was for sale and had put the city in the power of the boldest spirits;
likewise because he held the senate and the people in slight esteem and had impressed upon
the soldiers also this idea,--that they could kill or again create a Caesar. Moreover, he had
brought the soldiers into such a daring and lawless condition by his gifts and his immoderate
attentions that one day they forced an entrance just as they were into the palace while a number
of the senators were dining there with Otho. before departing they rushed into the banquet-room
itself, killing those that strove to bar their progress. And they would have slaughtered everybody
found there had not the guests jumped up and hid themselves prior to their irruption. For this
behavior the men received money, it being assumed that their act was due to their liking for Otho.

About this time also a man was caught pretending to be Nero. His name was unknown to Dio. And
at last he paid the penalty.

[Sidenote:--10--] Otho, not succeeding by frequent invitations in persuading Vitellius to come
and share the imperial office, eventually plunged into open war against him. And he sent soldiers
whom he put in charge of several different leaders; this fact was largely responsible for his
reverses.

Valens was so eager for money and gathered it so assiduously from every source that he put
to death the decurion, who had concealed him and had saved his life, on account of a thousand
denarii which he thought had been purloined from his possessions.

Otho declined battle, saying that he could not see a battle fought between kindred, just as
if he had become emperor in some legitimate fashion and had not killed the consuls and the
Caesar [Footnote: Piso and Galba are meant.] and the emperor [Footnote: Piso and Galba are
meant.] in Rome itself. There fell in the battles which took place near Cremona four myriads
of men on both sides. Here, they say, various omens appeared before the battle, most noteworthy
being an unusual bird, such as men had never before beheld, that was seen for a number of days.

[Sidenote:--11--] After the forces of Otho had been worsted, a certain horseman brought word
of the disaster to Otho. When the bystanders refused to credit his report--it chanced that
there were many gathered there--and some set to calling him "renegade" and others "enemy,"
he exclaimed: "Would that this news were false, Caesar: for most gladly would I have died to
secure thy victory. As it is, my demise is determined, that no one may think I fled hither
to secure my own safety. But do thou be assured that the enemy will ere long arrive, and debate
what must be done." Having finished these words, he despatched himself. [Sidenote:--12--] This
act caused all to believe him, and they were ready to renew the conflict. Those present formed
a numerous body and there were not a few others at hand from Pannonia. But the most important
consideration, as usual in such cases, was that they loved Otho and were quite devoted to him,
not in word but in their hearts. When, however, they besought him not to abandon either himself
or them, he waited until the rest, at report of the news, had come running together, and then,
after some muttered words to himself, he delivered to the soldiers a speech, from which the
following is a brief excerpt:

[Sidenote:--13--] "Enough, quite enough, has already been done. I hate a civil war, even though
I conquer: and I love all Romans, even though they do not side with me. Let Vitellius be victor,
since this has pleased the gods; and let the lives of his soldiers also be spared, since this
pleases me. It is far better and more just that one should perish for all, rather than many
for one, and that I should refuse on account of one single man to embroil the Roman people
and cause so great a mass of human beings to perish. I certainly should prefer to be a Mucius,
a Decius, a Curtius, a Regulus, rather than a Marius, a Cinna, or a Sulla,--not to mention
other names. Therefore do not force me to become one of these men I hate, nor grudge me the
privilege of imitating one of those whom I commend. Do you depart to meet the conqueror and
do him reverence. As for me, I shall find means to free myself, that all men may be taught
by the event that you have chosen such an emperor as has not given you up to save himself but
himself to save you."

[Sidenote:--14--] Of this nature were the words of Otho. Falling upon the ears of the soldiers
they aroused both admiration of the man and pity for what might befall him: his troops shed
tears of lamentation and mourning, calling him father and terming him dearer than children
and parents. ["Upon thee our lives depend," they said, "and for thee we will all die."] This
argument continued so for most of the day, Otho begging to be allowed to die and the soldiers
refusing to permit him to carry out his wish. Finally, he reduced them to silence and said:
"It can not be that I should show myself inferior to this soldier, whom you have seen kill
himself for the single reason that he had borne news of defeat to his own emperor. I shall
certainly follow in his footsteps, that I may cease to see or hear aught any longer. And you,
if you love me in reality, let me die as I desire and do not compel me to live against my will,
but take your way to the victor and gain his good graces."

[Sidenote:--15--] At the close of this speech he retired into his apartments and after sending
some messages to his intimate friends and some to Vitellius in their behalf he burned all the
letters which anybody had written to him containing hostile statements about Vitellius, not
wanting them to serve as damaging evidence against anybody. Then he called each one of the
persons that were at hand, greeted them, and gave them money. Meantime there was a disturbance
made by the soldiers, so that he was obliged to go out and quiet them, and he did not come
back until he had sent them to a place of safety, some here, some there. So then, when quiet
had been permanently restored, taking a short sword he killed himself. The grief-stricken soldiery
took up his body and buried it, and some slew themselves upon his grave. This was the end that
befell Otho, after he had lived thirty-seven years lacking eleven days and had reigned ninety
days, and it overshadowed the impiety and wickedness of his active career. In life the basest
of men he died most nobly. He had seized the empire by the most villainous trick, but took
leave of it most creditably.

A series of brawls among the soldiers immediately ensued, and a number of them were slain by
one another; afterwards they reached an agreement and set out to meet the victorious party.

DIO'S ROMAN HISTORY 65

Vitellius is proclaimed emperor: feasts his eyes on gladiators and slaughters: drives astrologers
from Italy (chapter 1).

Vitellius's excess in banquets, in his home, in furniture, in his almost absurd magnificence
(chapters 2-5).

Praiseworthy points in his character (chapters 6, 7).

Portents of ill omen: the soldiers declare Vespasian emperor (chapter 8).

Mucianus is sent by Vespasian against Vitellius: Primus of his own accord takes the lead against
Vitellius (chapter 9).

Alienus, put in charge of the war by Vitellius, is the author of a desertion, but is in turn
seized by his followers, who change their minds (chapter 10).

The adherents of Vitellius are conquered in battle (chapters 11-14).

Catastrophe befalls the dwellers in Cremona (chapter 15).

Wavering on the part of Vitellius: the Capitol is burned in the course of a siege by Sabinus
(chapters 16, 17).

Disaster to the city of Rome, taken by Vespasian's captains (chapters 18, 19).

How Vitellius was taken and perished (chapters 20, 21).

How a brother and son of Vitellius met their fate (chapter 22).

DURATION OF TIME.

(Galba (II) and T. Vinius Coss.): A.D. 69 = a.u. 822, from January 15th. The following Consules
Suffecti took office:

On the Calends of March--T. Virginius Rufus, Vopiscus Pompeius.

On the Calends of May--Caelius Sabinus, T. Flavins Sabinus.

On the Calends of July--T. Arrius Antoninus, P. Marius Celsus (II).

On the Calends of September--C. Fabius Valens, A. Alienus Caecinna (also Roscius Regulus, as
Caecinna was condemned on the last day of October).

On the Calends of November--Cn. Caecilius Simplex, C. Quintius Atticus.

[Sidenote: A.D. 69 (a.u. 822)] [Sidenote:--1--] The population of Rome when it heard of the
downfall of Otho naturally transferred its allegiance immediately. Otho, whom people previously
praised and for whose victory they prayed, they now abused as an enemy, and Vitellius, upon
whom they had been invoking curses, they praised and declared emperor. So truly there is nothing
constant in human affairs. Those who flourish most and those who are lowliest alike choose
unstable standards, and construct their praises and their censures, their honors and their
degradations to conform to the accidents of their situation.

News of the death of Otho was brought to him [Vitellius] while in Gaul. There he was joined
by his wife and child, whom he placed on a platform and saluted as Germanicus and imperator,
though the boy was only six years old.

[Vitellius witnessed gladiatorial combats at Lugdunum and again at Cremona, as if the crowds
of men who had perished in the battles and were even then exposed unburied to the elements
did not suffice. He beheld the slain with his own eyes, for he traversed all the ground where
they lay and gloated over the spectacle as if he were still in the moment of victory; and not
even after that did he order them to be buried.] Upon reaching Rome and adjusting affairs to
suit him, he issued a bulletin banishing the astrologers and commanding them by this particular
day (mentioning a given date) to leave the whole country of Italy. They by night put up in
turn another document, in which they announced that he should lose his life by the day on which
he actually died. So accurate was their previous knowledge of what should come to pass.

[Sidenote:--2--] Vitellius was fond of luxury and licentiousness and cared for nothing else
human or divine. He had always been the kind of man that would spend his time in taverns and
gaming houses, over dancers and charioteers. Incalculable were the sums he spent on such pursuits,
and the consequence was that he had many creditors. Now, when he attained to so great authority,
his wantonness only increased, and his expenditures went on most of the day and night alike.
He was insatiate in filling himself, yet kept constantly vomiting what he ate, apparently living
on the mere passage of food. Yet that was what enabled him to hold out; for his fellow banqueters
fared very badly. [He was always inviting numbers of the foremost men to his table and he was
frequently entertained at their houses.]

[Sidenote:--3--] On this point one of them, Vibius Crispus, [Footnote: Q. Vibius Crispus.]
was the author of a most witty remark. Having been compelled for some days by sickness to absent
himself from the convivial board, he said: "If I had not fallen ill, I should certainly have
died." The entire period of his reign consisted in nothing but carousals and revels. All the
most valuable food products were brought together from the ocean itself (not to go farther)
from the earth and from the Mediterranean, and were prepared in so costly a fashion that even
now some cakes and other dishes are named Vitellian, after him. Why should one go into the
details of these affairs? It is admitted by quite everybody that during the period of his reign
he expended on dinners two hundred million two thousand five hundred denarii. There came very
near being a famine in all costly articles of food, yet it was imperative that they should
be provided. Once he had a dish made that cost twenty-five myriads, into which he put a mixture
of tongues and brains and livers of fish and certain kinds of birds. As it was impossible to
make so large a vessel of pottery, it was made of silver and remained extant for some time,
regarded somewhat in the light of a votive offering, until Hadrian finally set eyes on it and
had it melted down.

[Sidenote:--4--] Since I have mentioned this fact, I will also add another, namely that not
even Nero's Golden House would satisfy Vitellius. He delighted in and commended the name and
the life and all the practices of its former owner, yet he found fault with the structure itself,
saying that it had been badly built and was scantily and meanly equipped. When he fell ill
one time he looked about for a room to afford him an abode; so little did even Nero's surroundings
satisfy him. His wife Galeria ridiculed the small amount of decoration found in the royal apartments.
This pair, as they spent other people's money, never stopped to count the cost of anything;
but those who invited them to meals found themselves in great trouble [save a few whom he compensated
for it]. Yet the same persons would not regularly entertain him the entire day, but one set
of men furnished breakfast, another lunch, another dinner, and still another certain viands
for dessert calculated to stimulate a jaded appetite. [Footnote: This little phrase is taken
direct from Plato's Critias, 115 B.] [For all who were able were eager to entertain him.] It
is said that after the elapse of a few days he spent a hundred myriads upon a dinner. [His
birthday celebration lasted over two days and numbers of beasts and of men were slain.]

[Sidenote:--6--] [Though his life was of this kind he was not entirely without good deeds.
For example, he retained the coinage minted under Nero and Galba and Otho, evincing no displeasure
at their images; and whatever gifts had been bestowed upon any persons he held to be valid
and deprived no one of any such possession. He did not collect any sums still owing of former
public contributions, and he confiscated no one's property. A very few of those who sided with
Otho he put to death but did not withhold even the property of these from their relatives.
Upon the kinsmen of those previously executed he bestowed all the funds that were found in
the public treasury. He did not obstruct the execution of the wills of such as had fought against
him and had fallen in the battles. Furthermore he forbade the senators and the knights to fight
as gladiators or to appear in any spectacle in the orchestra. And for these measures he was
commended.]

[Sidenote:--7--] He was a constant attendant of the theatres, and this won the attachment of
the populace. He ate with the most influential men on free and easy terms, and this gained
their favor to an even greater degree. His old companions he never failed to remember and honored
them greatly, not (like some others) disdaining to appear to recognize any of them. Many persons
have unexpectedly attained to great power feel hate for those who are acquainted with their
former humble state. [Vitellius, when Priscus opposed him in the senate and denounced one of
the soldiers, called the tribunes to his side as if he had some need of their assistance. He
did not himself do Priscus any harm and did not allow the officials to hurt him, but merely
said: "Be not indignant, Conscript Fathers, that we two out of your number have had a little
dispute with each other." This act seemed to have been due to a kindly disposition. The fact,
however, that he wished to imitate Nero and offered sacrifices to his Manes, and that he spent
so great sums on dinners, though it caused joy to some, made the sensible grieve, since they
were fully aware that not all the money in the whole world would be sufficient for him.]

[Sidenote:--8--] While he was behaving in this way, evil omens occurred. A comet star was seen,
and the moon contrary to precedent appeared to have had two eclipses, being obscured by shadows
on the fourth and on the seventh day. Also people saw two suns at once, one in the west weak
and pale, and one in the east brilliant and powerful. On the Capitol many huge footprints were
seen, presumably of some spirits that had descended that hill. The soldiers who had slept there
the night in question said that the temple of Jupiter had opened of itself with great clangor
and some of the guards were so terrified that they expired. At the same time that this happened
Vespasian, engaged in warfare with the Jews, [sent his son Titus to the emperor Galba to give
him a message. But when Titus returned, having learned on the way] of the rebellion of Vitellius
and of Otho, he deliberated what ought to be done. [For Vespasian was in general not rashly
inclined and he hesitated very much about involving himself in such troublous affairs.]

[Sidenote:--9--] But people favored him greatly: his reputation won in Britain, his fame derived
from the war under way, his kindheartedness and prudence, all led them to desire to have him
at their head. Likewise Mucianus urged him strongly, hoping that Vespasian should get the name
of emperor and that he as a result of the other's good nature should enjoy an equal share of
power. Vespasian's soldiers on ascertaining all these facts surrounded his tent and hailed
him as emperor. Portents and dreams pointing him out as sovereign long before had also fallen
to the lot of Vespasian, and these will be recited in the story of his life. For the time being
he sent Mucianus to Italy against Vitellius, while he himself, after taking a look at affairs
in Syria and entrusting to others the conduct of the war against the Jews, proceeded to Egypt.
There he collected money, of which of course he needed a great deal, and grin, which he desired
to send in as large quantities as possible to Rome. The soldiers in Moesia, hearing how matters
stood with him, would not wait for Mucianus,--they had learned that he was en route,--and chose
as their general Antonius Primus, [Footnote: M. Antonius Primus.] who had suffered sentence
of exile in Nero's reign but had been restored by Galba and was commander of the legion in
Pannonia. This man held supreme authority, although not chosen by the emperor nor by the senate.
So great was the soldiers' anger at Vitellius and their zest for plunder. They were doing this
for no other purpose except to pillage Italy. And their intention was realized.

[Sidenote:--10--] Vitellius when he heard about it remained where he was and went on with his
luxurious living even to the extent of arranging gladiatorial combats. In the course of these
it was proposed that Sporus portray the role of a maiden being ravished, but he would not endure
the shame and committed suicide. Vitellius gave the charge of the war to Alienus [Footnote:
A. Caevina Alienus.] and certain others. Alienus reached Cremona and occupied the town, but
seeing that his own soldiers were out of training as a result of their luxurious life in Rome
and impaired by lack of practice, whereas the others were physically well exercised and stout
of heart, he was afraid. Subsequently, when friendly proposals came to him from Primus, he
called the soldiers together and by indicating the weakness of Vitellius and the strength of
Vespasian together with the character of the two men he persuaded them to revolt. Then they
removed the images of Vitellius from their standards and took an oath that they would be governed
by Vespasian. But, after the meeting had broken up and they had retired to their tents, they
changed their minds and suddenly gathering excitedly in force with great outcry they again
saluted Vitellius as emperor and imprisoned Alienus for having betrayed them, and they paid
no heed to his consular office. Such are the regular practices of civil wars.

[Sidenote:--11--] The great confusion which under these conditions prevailed in the camp of
Vitellius was increased that night by an eclipse of the moon. It was not so much its being
obscured (though even such phenomena cause fear to men in excitement) as the fact that the
luminary appeared both blood-colored and black and reflected still other terrifying shades.
Not for this, however, would the men change their attitude or yield: but when they encountered
each other they contended most vigorously, although, as I said, the Vitellians were leaderless;
for Alienus had been imprisoned at Cremona.

On the following day, when Primus through messengers tried to induce them to come to terms,
the soldiers of Vitellius sent a return message to him urging that he espouse the cause of
Vitellius. When, moreover, they joined battle with his soldiers they contended most vigorously.
The battle was not the result of any concerted plan. Some few horsemen, as often happens when
two forces are encamped opposite each other, were out foraging in front of the others and suddenly
made an attack. After that reinforcements came from both armies to each of the two parties
in whatever order the troops happened to become aware of the situation,--first to one side,
then to the other, now of one kind of fighting force, now of another, infantry or cavalry:
and the conflict was marked by vicissitudes until all had hastened to the front. Then they
got into some kind of regular formation and carried on the struggle with some order even though
leaderless. Alienus, as you remember, had been imprisoned.

[Sidenote:--12--] From this point on the battle between them was a well matched and evenly
balanced affair, not only during the day but at night as well. For the coming of night did
not separate them. They were thoroughly angry and determined, although they were acquainted
with each other and talked back and forth. Hence not hunger nor fatigue nor cold nor darkness
nor wounds nor deaths nor the remains of men that fell on this field before [nor the memory
of the disaster nor the number of those that perished to no purpose] mitigated their fierceness.
Such was the madness that possessed both sides alike [and so eager were they, incited by the
very memories of the spot, which made one party resolved to conquer this time also, and the
other not to be conquered this time either. So they fought as against foreigners instead of
kindred, and as if all on both sides were absolutely obliged either to perish at once or thereafter
to be slaves. Therefore, not even when night came on, as I stated, would they yield; but though
tired out and for that reason often resting and indulging in conversation together, they nevertheless
continued to struggle]. As often as the moon shone out (it was constantly being concealed by
[numerous] clouds [of all shapes that kept passing in front of it]), one might see them sometimes
fighting, sometimes [Sidenote:--13--] standing and leaning on their spears, sometimes sitting
down. Now and then they would shout in unison on one side the name of Vespasian and on the
other that of Vitellius, and again they would challenge each other with abuse and praise of
the two men. At intervals one soldier would have a private chat with an opponent:--"Comrade,
fellow-citizen, what are we doing? Why are we fighting? Come over to my side." "Oh, no, you
come to my side." But what is there surprising about this, considering that when the women
of the city in the course of the night brought food and drink to give to the soldiers of Vitellius,
the latter after eating and drinking themselves passed the supplies on to their antagonists?
One of them would call out the name of his adversary (for they practically all knew one another
and were well acquainted) and would say: "Comrade, take and eat this. I give you not a sword,
but bread. Take and drink: I hold toward you not a shield but a cup. For whether you kill me
or I you, this will afford us a more comfortable leave-taking, and will save from feebleness
and weakness the hand with which either you cut me down or I you. These are the consecrated
offerings that Vitellius and Vespasian give us while we are yet alive, that they may sacrifice
us to the corpses of the past." That would be the style of their conversation, after which
they would rest a while, eat a bit, and then renew the battle. Soon they would stop again,
and then once more join in conflict.

[Sidenote:--14--] It went on this way the whole night through till dawn broke. At that time
two men of the Vespasian party wrought a notable achievement. Their side was being severely
damaged by an engine of some sort, and these two, seizing shields from among the spoils of
the Vitellian faction, mingled with the opposing ranks, and made their way to the engine without
its being noticed that they did not belong to that side. Thus they managed to cut the ropes
of the affair, so that not another missile could be discharged from it. As the sun was rising
the soldiers of the third legion, called the Gallic, that wintered in Syria but was now by
chance in the party of Vespasian, suddenly according to custom saluted the Sun God. The followers
of Vitellius, suspecting that Mucianus had arrived, underwent a revulsion of feeling, and panic-stricken
at the shout took to flight. (Another instance of how the smallest things can produce great
alarm in men who are completely tired out). They retired within the wall, from which they stretched
forth their hands and made supplications. As no one listened to them, they released the consul,
and, having arrayed him in his robe of office with the fasces, then sent him as an intercessor.
Thus they obtained a truce, for Alienus because of his rank and the way he had been treated
easily persuaded Primus to accept their submission.

[Sidenote:--15--] When, however, the gates were opened and an amnesty had been declared for
all, suddenly soldiers came rushing in from all directions and began plundering and setting
fire to everything. This catastrophe proved to be one of the greatest recorded. The city was
distinguished for the size and beauty of its buildings, and great sums of money belonging to
natives and to strangers had been accumulated there. The larger portion of the harm was done
by the Vitellians, since they knew exactly which were the houses of the richest men and all
about the entrances on the alleys. They showed no scruples about destroying the persons in
whose behalf they had fought, but dealt blows, committed murder, and acted as if it were they
who had been wronged and had conquered. Thus, counting those that fell in battle, five myriads
perished altogether.

[Sidenote:--16--] Vitellius, on learning of the defeat, was for a time quite disturbed. Omens
had contributed to make him uneasy. He had been offering a certain sacrifice, and after it
was addressing the soldiers, when a lot of vultures swooped down, scattered the sacred meats,
and nearly knocked him from the platform. Accordingly, the news of the defeat troubled him
still more, and he quietly sent his brother to Tarracina, a strong city, which the latter occupied.
But when the generals of Vespasian approached Rome he became alarmed and took his departure.
He did nothing and formed no plan, but in a state of terror was carried back and forth on the
billows of chance. One moment he was for clinging to the sovereignty and he was making definite
preparations for warfare: the next he was quite willing to give it up and was definitely getting
ready to live as a private person. At times he wore the purple chlamys and girded on a sword:
again he assumed dark colored clothing. His public addresses both in the palace and in the
Forum were now of one tenor, now of another, first urging battle and next terms of peace. At
times he was inclined to surrender himself for the public welfare, and later he would clasp
his child in his arms, kiss him, and hold him out to the people as if to arouse their pity.
Similarly he would dismiss the Pretorians and then send for them again, would leave the palace
to retire to his brother's house and then return: in this way he dulled the enthusiasm of almost
everybody interested in him. Seeing him dashing hither and thither so frenziedly they ceased
to carry out commands with their usual diligence, and began to consider their own interests
as well as his. They ridiculed him a great deal, especially when in the assemblies he proffered
his sword to the consuls and to the senators present as if to show that by this act he had
divested himself of the imperial office. No one of the above persons dared to take it, and
the bystanders jeered.

[Sidenote:--17--] In view of these conditions, when Primus at last drew near, the consuls,
Gaius Quintius Atticus and Gnaeus Caecilius Simplex, together with Sabinus (a relative of Vespasian)
and the other foremost men held a consultation, the result of which was that they set out for
the palace in company with the soldiers that favored their cause, intending to either persuade
or force Vitellius to resign his position as emperor. They encountered, however, the Celtae
who were guarding him, and getting decidedly the worst of the encounter they fled to the Capitol.
Arrived there they sent for Domitian, son of Vespasian, and his relatives, and put themselves
in a state of defence. The following day, when their adversaries assailed them, they managed
for a time to repulse them; but when the environs of the Capitol were set on fire, its defenders
were beaten back by the flame. In this way the soldiers of Vitellius forced their way up, slaughtered
many of the resisting party, and after plundering the whole stock of votive offerings burned
down with other structures the great temple. Sabinus and Atticus they arrested and sent them
to Vitellius. Domitian and the junior Sabinus had made their escape from the Capitol at the
first noise of conflict and by concealing themselves in houses had succeeded in eluding observation.

[Sidenote:--18--] Those soldiers of Vespasian that were led by Quintus Petilius Cerialis [Footnote:
The epitome of Dio spells uniformly Cerealius.] (one of the foremost senators and a relative
of Vespasian by marriage) and by Antonius Primus--for Mucianus had not yet overtaken them--were
by this time close at hand, and Vitellius fell into the depths of terror. The oncoming leaders
through the medium of certain messengers and by placing their letters in coffins with dead
bodies, in baskets full of fruit, or the reed traps of bird-catchers, learned all that was
being done in the city and formed their plans accordingly. Now, when they saw the blaze rising
from the Capitol as from a beacon, they made haste. The first of the two to approach the city
with his cavalry was Cerialis, [and he was defeated at the very entrance by being cut off with
horsemen in a narrow spot. However, he prevented any harm being done by his opponents. For
Vitellius, hoping that his proved superiority would afford him an opportunity to make terms,
restrained his soldiers]. And having convened the senate he sent envoys chosen from that body
together with the vestal virgins to Cerialis as envoys.

[Sidenote:--19--] Since no one would listen to them and they came very near losing their lives,
the emissaries visited Primus, who was also at last approaching; from him they secured an audience,
but accomplished nothing. For at this juncture his soldiers came angrily toward him and overcame
with ease the guard at the Tiber bridge. (When the latter took their stand upon it and disputed
their passage, the horsemen forded the stream and fell upon them from the rear). After this
various bodies of men made assaults at various points and committed some of the most atrocious
deeds. All the behavior for which they censured Vitellius and his followers, behavior which
they pretended was the cause of the war between them, they themselves repeated, slaying great
numbers. Many of those killed were struck with pieces of tiling from the roof or cut down in
alleyways while jostled about by a throng of adversaries. Thus as many as fifty thousand human
beings were destroyed during those days of carnage.

[Sidenote:--20--] So the city was being pillaged, and the men were some fighting, some fleeing,
some actually plundering and murdering by themselves in order that they might be taken for
the invaders and so preserve their lives. Vitellius in dread put on a ragged, dirty, little
tunic and concealed himself in an obscure alcove where dogs were kept, intending to run off
during the night to Tarracina and join his brother. But the soldiers found him after a short
search, for he could not long be sure of remaining hid, seeing that he had been emperor. They
seized him, a mass of shavings and blood--for the dogs had done him some harm already--and
stripping off his clothes they bound his hands behind his back, put a rope around his neck
and dragged from the palace the Caesar who had reveled there. Down the Sacred Way they hauled
the emperor who had frequently paraded past in his chair of state. Then they conducted the
Augustus to the Forum, where he had often addressed the people. Some buffeted him, some plucked
at his beard, all ridiculed him, all insulted him, laying especial stress in their remarks
on his intemperance, since he had an expansive paunch. [Sidenote:--21--] When in shame at this
treatment he kept his eyes lowered, the soldiers would prick him under the chin with their
daggers, to make him look up even against his will. A certain Celt who saw this would not endure
it, but taking pity on him cried: "I will help you, as well as I can alone." Then he wounded
Vitellius and killed himself. However, Vitellius did not die of the wound but was haled to
the prison, as were also his statues, while many amusing and many disgraceful remarks were
made about them. Finally, grieved to the heart at the way he had been treated and what he was
compelled to hear, he was heard to exclaim: "Yet I was once your emperor!" At that the soldiers
flew into a rage and took him to the top of the Scalae Gemoniae, where they struck him down.
His head was cut off and carried about all over the city.

[Sidenote:--22--] Subsequently his wife saw to his burial. He had lived fifty-four years [and
eighty-nine days] and had reigned for a year lacking ten days. His brother had started from
Tarracina to come to his assistance, but learned while en route that he was dead. He also encountered
a detachment of men sent against him and made terms with them on condition that his life should
be spared. In spite of this he was murdered not long afterward. The son of Vitellius, too,
perished soon after his father, notwithstanding that Vitellius had killed no relative either
of Otho or of Vespasian. After all these various events had taken place, Mucianus came up and
administered necessary details in conjunction with Domitian, whom he also presented to the
soldiers and had him make a speech, boy though he was. Each of the soldiers received twenty-five
denarii.

DIO'S ROMAN HISTORY 66

Vespasian is made Emperor: is also designated as such by portents (chapter 1).

The arrogance of Mucianus and Domitian (chapter 2).

Revolt of the Germans (chapter 3).

About the taking of Jerusalem by Titus (chapters 4-7).

Vespasian levies money in Egypt (chapter 8).

He treats the Romans considerately: drives philosophers from the capital (chapters 9-13).

He gathers money by the efforts of his concubine Caenis, as well as by his own (chapter 14).

The Temple of Peace and the Colossus are erected: Berenice is dismissed: the Cynics are punished
(chapter 15).

The punishment of Julius Sabinus: likewise of the conspirators, Alienus and Marcellus (chapter 16).

How Vespasian met his death (chapter 17).

The mildness of character of Titus Caesar Augustus (chapters 18, 19).

War in Britain, which is ascertained to be an island (chapter 20).

How Mount Vesuvius flamed forth: conflagration at Rome (chapters 21-24).

Spectacles: death of Titus (chapters 25, 26).

DURATION OF TIME.

Fl. Vespasianus Aug. (II), Titus Caesar. (A.D. 70 = a.u. 823 = Second of Vespasian, from July 1st).

Fl. Vespasianus Aug. (III), M. Cocceius Nerva. (A.D. 71 = a.u. 824 = Second of Vespasian).

Fl. Vespasianus Aug. (IV), Titus Caesar (II). (A.D. 72 = a.u. 825 = Third of Vespasian).

Domitianus Caesar (II), M. Valerius Messalinus. (A.D. 73 = a.u. 826 = Fourth of Vespasian).

Fl. Vespasianus Aug. (V), Titus Caesar (III). (A.D. 74 = a.u. 827 = Fifth of Vespasian).

Fl. Vespasianus Aug. (VI), Titus Caesar (IV). (A.D. 75 = a.u. 828 = Sixth of Vespasian).

Fl. Vespasianus (VII), Titus Caesar (V). (A.D. 76 = a.u. 829 = Seventh of Vespasian). Fl. Vespasianus
(VIII), Titus Caesar (VI). (A.D. 77 = a.u. 830 = Eighth of Vespasian).

L. Ceionius Commodus, D. Novius Priscus. (A.D. 78 = a.u. 831 = Ninth of Vespasian).

Fl. Vespasianus (IX), Titus Caesar (VII). (A.D. 79 = a.u. 832 = First of Titus, from June 23rd).

T. Vespasianus (VIII), Domitianus (VII). (A.D. 80 = a.u. 833 = Second of Titus).

L. Fl. Silva Nonius Bassus, Asinius Pollio Verrucosus. (A.D. 81 = a.u. 834 = Third of Titus,
to September 13th).

[Sidenote: A.D. 70 (a.u. 823)] [Sidenote:--1--] Such was the course of events on the heels
of which Vespasian was declared emperor by the senate and Titus and Domitian were given the
title of Caesars. The consular office was assumed by Vespasian and Titus while the former was
in Egypt and the latter in Palestine. Vespasian had seen portents and dreams that long beforehand
indicated that he was destined to rule. As he was eating dinner in the country, where most
of his time was spent, a cow approached him, knelt down, and put her head beneath his feet.
Another time, when he was taking food, a dog threw a human hand under the table. And a conspicuous
cypress tree, which had been uprooted and overthrown by a violent wind, on the next day stood
upright again by its own power and continued to flourish. From a dream he learned that when
Nero Caesar should lose a tooth, he should be emperor: and this matter of the tooth became
a reality on the following day. Nero himself in his slumbers thought he was bringing the chariot
of Jupiter to Vespasian's house. These occurrences, of course, needed interpretation. But in
addition a Jew named Josephus, who had previously been disliked by him and imprisoned, gave
a laugh and said: "You may imprison me now, but a year later when you become emperor you will
release me."

[Sidenote:--2--] Thus had Vespasian, like some others, been born for the position. While he
was as yet absent in Egypt Mucianus administered all the details of government with the help
of Domitian. Mucianus feeling that he had himself given the sovereignty to Vespasian exulted
greatly at these facts above all,--that he was called "brother" by him, and that he had authority
to decide every question that he liked without the emperor's express approval and could issue
written orders by merely adding his superior's name. For this purpose, too, he wore a finger
ring that had been sent him, which was intended to impress the imperial seal upon documents
requiring authorization. [Indeed, Domitian himself gave offices and procuratorships to many
persons, appointing prefect after prefect and even consuls.] In fine, they behaved in every
way so much like absolute rulers that Vespasian once sent the following message to Domitian:
"I thank you, my child, for letting me hold office and that you have not yet dethroned me."

Now Mucianus gathered into the public treasury from every possible quarter vast sums of money,
showing an entire readiness to relieve Vespasian of the censure which such a proceeding caused.
He was forever declaring that money was the sinews of sovereignty; and in accordance with this
belief he was constantly urging Vespasian to obtain funds from every quarter, and for his own
part he continued from the outset to collect revenue, thus providing a large amount of money
for the empire and acquiring a large amount himself.

[Sidenote:--3--] In Germany various uprisings against the Romans took place which are not worth
mentioning for my purposes, but there was one incident that must cause us surprise. A certain
Julius Sabinus, one of the foremost of the Lingones, collected by his own efforts a separate
force and took the name of Caesar, declaring that he was a descendant of Julius Caesar. He
was defeated in several engagements, whereupon he fled to a field and plunged into a subterranean
vault beneath a monument, which he first burned to the ground. His pursuers thought he had
perished in the conflagration, but as a matter of fact he hid himself there with his wife for
nine years and had two male children by her. The troubles in Germany were settled by Cerialis
in the course of a number of battles, in one of which so great a multitude of Romans and barbarians
both were slain that the river flowing near by was held back by the bodies of the fallen. Domitian
stood in fear of his father because of what he did and still more because of what he intended,
for his plans were on no small scale. He happened to be spending most of his time near the
Alban Mount, devoting himself to his passion for Domitia, the daughter of Corbulo. Her he took
away from her husband, Lucius Lamia Aelianus, and at this time he had her for one of his mistresses,
but later he actually married her.

[Sidenote:--4--] Titus, who was assigned to take charge of the war with the Jews, [undertook
to win them over by certain conferences and offers; as they would not yield, he proceeded to
direct hostilities. The first battles he fought were rather close; finally he prevailed and
took up the siege of Jerusalem. This town had three walls including that surrounding the temple.
The Romans accordingly heaped up mounds against the fortifications and brought their engines
to bear: then collecting in a dense force they repulsed all sallying parties and with their
slings and arrows kept back all the defenders of the wall. Many persons that had been sent
by some of the barbarian kings they kept prisoners. The Jews who came to the assistance of
their countrymen were many of them from the immediate region and many from kindred districts,
not only in this same Roman empire but from beyond the Euphrates, and they, too, kept directing
missiles and stones with considerable force on account of the higher ground, some being flung
from the hand and some hurled by means of engines. They likewise made night and day sallies
as often as occasion offered, set fire to the engines, slew numerous combatants, and by digging
out under the wall took away earth from beneath the mound. As for the rams, they lassoed some
of them and broke the ends off, others they seized and pulled up with hooks, while by means
of thick boards well fastened together and strengthened with iron, which they let down against
the face of the wall, they turned aside the assaults of the remainder. The Romans' chief cause
of discomfort was the lack of water; their supply was of poor quality and had to be brought
from a distance.

The Jews found their underground passages a source of strength. They had these affairs dug
from within the city out under the walls to distant points in the country, and going out through
them they would attack parties in search of water and harass scattered detachments. Consequently
Titus stopped them all up.]

[Sidenote:--5--] In the course of these operations many on both sides were wounded and killed.
Titus himself was struck on the left shoulder by a stone, and as a result of this accident
the arm was always weaker. After a time the Romans managed to scale the outside circle, and,
pitching their camps between the two encompassing lines of fortification, assaulted the second
wall. Here, however, they found the conditions confronting them to be different. When all the
inhabitants had retired behind the second wall, its defence proved an easier matter because
the circuit to be guarded was so much less. Titus, accordingly, made anew a proclamation offering
them immunity. They, however, even under these circumstances held out. And the captives and
deserters from the enemy so far as they could do so unobserved spoiled the Roman water supply
and slew many men that they could cut off from the main force, so that Titus refused to receive
any of them. Meantime some of the Romans, too, growing disheartened, as often happens in a
prolonged siege, and furthermore suspecting that the city was really, even as report declared,
impregnable, went over to the other side. The Jews although they were short of food treated
them kindly, in order to be able to exhibit deserters to their own ranks.

[Sidenote:--6--] Though a breach in the wall was effected by engines, still the capture did
not immediately follow; the defenders killed great numbers that tried to crowd through the
opening. Next they set fire to some of the buildings near by, expecting in this way to check
the onward progress of the Romans, even should the latter make themselves masters of the entire
circuit. In this way they damaged the wall and unintentionally burned down the barrier encompassing
their sacred precinct. The entrance to the temple was now laid open to the Romans. The soldiers
on account of their superstition would not immediately rush in, but at last, as Titus forced
them, they made their way inside. Then the Jews carried on a defence much more vigorous than
before, as if they had discovered a rare and unexpected privilege in falling near the temple,
while fighting to save it. The populace was stationed in the outer court, the senators on the
steps, and the priests in the hall of worship itself. And though they were but a handful fighting
against a far superior force they were not subdued until a section of the temple was fired.
Then they went to meet death willingly, some letting themselves be pierced by the swords of
the Romans, some slaughtering one another, others committing suicide, and others leaping into
the blaze. It looked to everybody, and most of all to them, apparently, [that so far from being
ruin, it was victory and salvation and happiness to perish along with the temple]. [Sidenote:--7--]
Even under these conditions many captives were taken, among them Bargiora, [Footnote: Properly
Simon Bar-Giora (patronymic).] the commander of the enemy: he was the only one punished in
the course of the triumphal celebration.

Thus was Jerusalem destroyed on the very day of Saturn, which even now the Jews reverence most.
To commemorate the event it was ordered that the conquered, while still preserving their own
ancestral customs should annually pay a tribute of two denarii to Capitoline Jupiter. As a
reward for this success both generals received the title of imperator, but neither had that
of Iudaicus, although all the other privileges (including arches bearing trophies) that were
proper after so great a victory were voted to them.

[Sidenote:--8--] Hard upon Vespasian's entrance into Alexandria the Nile overflowed, and rose
in one day a palm higher than usual; indeed, such an occurrence, it was said, had taken place
only once before. Vespasian himself healed two persons who had come to him because of a vision
seen in dreams. One of them, who had a weak hand, he cured by treading upon that member, and
the other one, who was blind, by spitting upon his eyes. His divine power herein shown gave
him great repute, yet the Alexandrians, far from enjoying his society, detested him heartily;
not only in private but in public they were forever making fun of and abusing him. They had
expected to receive some great reward from him because they had taken the first steps in making
him emperor, but instead of securing anything they had additional contributions levied upon
them. Large were the sums he gathered from them, for he omitted not a single source of revenue,
no, not even the first that might offer itself, though its character were reprehensible, but
he sought money from everybody alike, of secular or religious profession. As for taxes, he
renewed many that had been abolished and increased those that were usual [and introduced still
other new ones]. And he adopted this same course later in the rest of the subject territory,
[in Italy] and in Rome itself. Hence the Alexandrians [both for the reasons mentioned and because
most of the royal possessions had been sold were vexed and] threw out various derogatory remarks
about him, one of them being: "You want six obols more." Vespasian, consequently, although
the most affable of men, became indignant and gave orders that the six obols per man should
be levied, and thought seriously about taking vengeance upon them. [The words themselves contained
an insult, and of their many undignified and anapaestic rhythms there was not a single one
but aroused his anger.] Titus, however, begged them off and Vespasian accordingly spared them.
Yet they would not let him alone, and in some assembly they all together shouted at Titus these
very words: "We forgive him. He doesn't understand being Caesar."

So they continued to be foolhardy, took their thorough fill of that license which is always
working to their detriment, and abused the good nature of the emperor. [Sidenote:--9--] Vespasian
soon ceased to notice them. He sent a despatch to Rome rescinding the disfranchisement of such
persons as had been condemned for so-called acts of maiestas by Nero and succeeding rulers.
His action included living and dead alike, and he moreover stopped the indictments made upon
such complaints.--The astrologers he banished from Rome, yet he consulted all of them who were
distinguished, and through the influence of Barbillus, a man of that profession, allowed the
Ephesians to celebrate some sacred games. This was a privilege he granted to no other city.

He soon had Egypt subdued and sent from there a large supply of grain to Rome. He had left
his son Titus at Jerusalem to sack the town, and awaited its capture that he might return to
Rome in his son's company. But, as time dragged in the conduct of the siege, he left Titus
in Palestine and took passage himself on a merchantman; he sailed in this manner as far as
Lycia, and from that country partly by overland journeys and partly by seafaring he came to
Brundusium.

After this he came to Rome, meeting Mucianus and other prominent men at Brundusium and Domitian
at Beneventum. In consequence of the consciousness of his own designs and of what he had already
done, Domitian was ill at ease, and moreover he occasionally feigned madness. He spent most
of his time on the Alban estate and did many ridiculous things, one of them being to impale
flies on pencils. Even though this incident be unworthy of the dignity of history, yet because
it shows his character so well and particularly in view of the fact that he continued the same
practice after he became emperor, I have been obliged to record it. Hence that answer was not
without wit which some one made to a person who enquired what Domitian was doing. "He is living
in retirement," he said, "without so much as a fly to keep him company." [Sidenote:--10--]
Vespasian though he humbled this upstart's pride greeted all the rest not like an emperor but
like a private person, for he remembered his previous experience.

On reaching Rome he bestowed gifts upon both soldiers and populace; he made repairs in the
sacred precincts and upon those public works which showed signs of wear and tear; such as had
already crumbled to decay he restored; and when they were completed he inscribed upon them
not his own name but the names of the persons who had originally reared them.

He immediately began to construct the temple on the Capitoline, being himself the first to
carry away some of the soil; and, as a matter of course, he urged the other most prominent
men to do this same thing in order that the rest of the populace might have no excuse for shirking
this service.

The property of his opponents who had fallen in one conflict or another he delivered to their
children or to other kin of theirs; furthermore, he destroyed contracts of long standing representing
sums due and owing to the public treasury.

Though he invariably expended in munificent fashion all that was requisite for the public welfare
and arranged the festivals on a most sumptuous scale, his own living was very far from costly,
and he sanctioned no greater outlay than was absolutely necessary. Therefore even in the taverns
he allowed nothing cooked to be sold except pulse. Thus he made it quite plainly evident that
he was amassing riches not for his own enjoyment but for the needs of the people.

Vespasian got laughed at every time that he would say, when spending money: "I am making this
outlay from my own purse."

He was neither of noble family nor rich.

The general routine of life that he followed was this. He lived but little in the palace, spending
most of his time in the so-called Sallustian Gardens. There he received anybody who desired
to see him, not only senators but people in general. With his intimate friends he would converse
also before dawn while lying in bed; others could greet him on the streets. The doors of the
royal residence were open all day long and no guard was stationed at them. He was a regular
visitor in the senate, whose members he consulted in regard to all projects, and he frequently
tried cases in the Forum. Whatever measures he was prevented by old age from reading aloud,
as well as any communications that he sent to the senate when absent, he usually caused to
be read by his sons, showing honor by this course to the legislative body. Every day he had
many of the senators and others join him at table, and he himself often dined at the houses
of his intimate friends. [Sidenote:--11--] In general, his forethought for public interests
caused him to be regarded as a real emperor. In his ordinary existence he was sociable and
lived on a footing of equality with his subjects. He joked in unconventional manner and rather
liked jokes upon himself. In case any anonymous documents were posted,--as happens to every
emperor,--containing statements insulting to himself, he showed no signs of disturbance but
posted in turn a suitable reply.

One day Phoebus approached him to make an apology. It seemed that once, during Nero's reign,
Vespasian when in the theatre in Greece had frowned at the misconduct of the emperor (of which
he was a witness), whereupon Phoebus had angrily bidden him "Go!" And upon Vespasian's enquiring
"Where to?" the other had responded "to the devil." Inunctions of various mollitives are then
useful.

Dislocations of the lower jaw are recognized by the failure of the teeth to fit their fellows of
the upper jaw, and by the detection of the condyles of the jaw beneath the ears. The bone is
to be grasped by the rami and dragged down until the teeth resume
and retain their natural position, and the jaw is then to be kept
in place by a suitable bandage.

In dislocation of the humerus the patient is to be bound in the supine position, a wedge-shaped
stone wrapped with yarn placed in the axilla, and the surgeon, pressing against the padded
stone with his foot and raising the humerus with his hands, reduces the head of the bone to
its natural position. If this method fails, a long crutch-like stick is prepared to receive
at one end the axillary pad, the patient is placed standing upon
a box or bench, the pad and crutch adjusted in the axilla, and while
the surgeon stands ready to guide the dislocated bone to its place,
his assistants remove the bench, leaving the patient suspended by
his shoulder upon the rude crutch.

In boys, Gilbert tells us, no special apparatus is required. The surgeon merely places his doubled
fist in the axilla, with the other hand grasps the humerus and lifts the boy off the ground, and the
head of the bone slips readily back into place. After we are assured that the reduction is complete,
a strictorium is prepared, consisting of the pulvis ruber, egg-albumen
and a little wheat flour, with which the shoulder is to be rubbed.

Finally, when all seems to be going on well, warm spata drapum (sparadrap) is to be applied
upon a bandage, and if necessary the apostolicon ointment.

Dislocation of the elbow is reduced by passing a bandage around the bend of the arm, forming
in this a loop (scapham) into which the foot of the surgeon is to be placed for counter-extension,
while with the hands extension is to be made upon the forearm until the bones are drawn into
their normal position. Flexion and extension of the joint are then to be practised three or four times
(to assure complete reduction?), and the forearm flexed and supported by a bandage from the neck.
After a few days, Gilbert tells us, the patient will himself often try to flex and extend the
arm, and the bandage should be so applied as not to interfere with
these movements.

Dislocation of the wrist is reduced by gentle extension from the hand
and counter-extension from the forearm, and dislocation of the fingers
by a similar manipulation.

After so full a consideration of the surgical injuries of the head, trunk and upper extremities,
we are somewhat surprised to find Gilbert's discussion of the similar
injuries of the lower extremities condensed into a single very moderate
chapter entitled "De vulneribus cruris et tybie"

(f. 358a b).

In this, Gilbert, emphasizing the importance of wounds of the patella and knee-joint and the necessity
for their careful treatment, also declares that wounds of both the leg and thigh within three
inches of the joints, or in the fleshy portion of the thigh ubi organum est (?), involve considerable
danger. He then speaks of a blackish, hard and very painful tumor of the thigh, which, when
it ascends the thigh (ad superiora ascendit) is mortal, but if it descends is less dangerous. Separation
of the sacrum (vertebrum) from the ilium (scia), either by accident
or from the corrosion of humors, leaves the patient permanently lame,
though suitable fomentations and inunctions may produce some improvement.

Sprains of the ankle are to be treated by placing the joint immediately in very cold water ad
repercussionem spiritus et sanguinis, and the joint is to be kept thus refrigerated until it even
becomes numb (stupefactionem); after which stupes of salt water and urine are to be applied, followed
by a plaster of galbanum, opoponax, the apostolicon, etc. Fractures
of the femur are to be treated like those of the humerus, except that
the ends of the fractured bone are to be separated by the space of
an inch, and a bandage six fingers in width carefully applied.

Such fractures within three inches of the hip or knee-joint are regarded
as specially dangerous. Dislocations of the ankle, after reduction
of proper manipulation, should be bound with suitable splints. If
of a less severe character, the dislocation may be dressed with stupes
of canabina (Indian hemp), urine and salt water, which greatly mitigate
the pain and swelling. Under these circumstances
Mucianus, influenced more by anger than by fondness for speaking, uttered many charges against
them and persuaded Vespasian to expel all such persons from the city.

[Sidenote:--14--] This period saw also the demise of Vespasian's concubine, Caenis. I have
mentioned her because she was exceedingly faithful and possessed naturally a most excellent
memory. For instance, her mistress Antonia, the mother of Claudius, had had her write secretly
to Tiberius about Sejanus and later had ordered the message erased, that no trace of the same
might be left. Thereupon she replied: "It is in vain, mistress, that you have issued this command.
All of this and whatever else you dictate to me I always carry with me in my soul and it can
never be erased." This is one thing I have admired about her and a second is that Vespasian
should have been so much pleased with her. This fact gave her the greatest influence, and she
collected untold wealth, so that it was even thought that she obtained money by her independent
efforts. She received vast sums from all sources and sold to some persons offices, to others
procuratorships, the command of campaigns, priesthoods, and to some actually imperial decisions.
For Vespasian killed no one to get his money and took care to preserve large numbers of those
who freely gave it. The person who secured the funds was his concubine, but it was suspected
that Vespasian willingly allowed her to do as she did; and this belief was strengthened by
his other acts, a few of which, for the sake of illustration, I shall relate. When certain
persons voted to erect to him a statue costing twenty-five myriads, he stretched out his hand
and said: "Give me the money; this [Footnote: i.e., the hollowed hand (compare Suetonius Vespasian,
chapter 23).] will serve as its pedestal."--And to Titus, who was angry at the tax on urinating
[Footnote: This refers to conveniences in the public streets.], which was appointed along with
the rest, he replied, as he picked up some gold pieces that were the product of it: "See, my
child, if they smell at all."

[Sidenote: A.D. 75 (a.u. 828)] [Sidenote:--15--] In the sixth year of Vespasian as magistrate
and the fourth of Titus the precinct of Peace was dedicated and the so-called Colossus was
set up on the Sacred Way. It is said to have been one hundred feet high, and to have had--according
to one account--the figure of Nero, according to others that of Titus. Vespasian would often
have beasts slain in the theatres. He did not particularly enjoy gladiatorial combats of men,
although Titus during the youthful sports which were celebrated in his own land had once had
a sham fight in heavy armor with Alienus. The Parthians, who fell into a war with some peoples,
asked for an alliance with him, but he did not go to their aid, saying that it was not proper
for him to interfere in other persons' business.

Berenice was at the height of her power and consequently came to Rome along with her brother
Agrippa. [Footnote: This Agrippa, known also as Herodes II, was an intimate friend of the Jewish
historian Josephus and a companion of Titus at the siege of Jerusalem. It was before him, moreover,
that the apostle Paul made his defence in A.D. 60.] The latter was accorded pretorial honors,
while she dwelt in the Palace and cohabited with Titus. She expected to be married to him and
behaved in all respects as if his wife. But when he perceived that the Romans were displeased
at the situation he sent her away; for various reports were in circulation. At this time, too,
certain sophists of the cynic school managed somehow to slip into the city: first, Diogenes
entered the theatre when it was full of men and denounced them in a long, abusive speech, for
which he was flogged; after him Heras, who showed no greater disposition to be obedient, gave
vent to many senseless bawlings in the true cynic (dog-like) manner,--and for this behavior
was beheaded.

[Sidenote: A.D. 79 (a.u. 832)] [Sidenote:--16--] About the same period that these events took
place it happened that at a certain inn such a quantity of overflowed the vessels that it ran
out into the street. Moreover, Sabinus the Gaul, already mentioned, the person who had once
named himself Caesar, had later taken up arms, had been defeated and had hidden himself in
the monument, was discovered [Footnote: The meaning is clear. Cobet (Mnemosyne, N.S.X). thinks
that ephorathae expresses the idea more accurately than the commonly accepted ephanerothae
(Boissevain also ephorathae).] and brought to Rome. With him perished also his wife Peponila,
who had previously saved his life. She had presented her children before Vespasian and had
delivered a most pitiful speech in their behalf: "These little ones, Caesar, I both brought
forth and reared in the monument, that we might be a greater number to supplicate you." She
caused both him and the rest to weep; no mercy, however, was shown to the family. Meantime
the emperor was also the object of a conspiracy on the part of Alienus and Marcellus, although
he considered them among his best friends and bestowed honors upon them quite unstintedly.
They did not succeed in killing him, though. Upon their being detected, Alienus was slain at
once, in the imperial residence itself, as he rose from a meal with his intended victim. Titus
issued this order to prevent his carrying his rebellion any further during the night; Alienus
had already made arrangements with not a few of the soldiers. Marcellus was brought to trial
before the senate and was condemned, whereupon he cut his own throat with a razor. Not even
benefits, it may be remarked, can subdue those who are naturally vicious, as is shown by the
plotting of these men against him who had done them so many kindnesses.

[Sidenote:--17--] It was after the episode just narrated that Vespasian fell sick, not, if
the truth be known, of his ordinary gout but of fever and passed away at Aquae Cutiliae, [Footnote:
These are mineral springs, chiefly sulphurous in nature, both hot and cold, situated near the
town of Cutiliae, famous for its pool with the "floating island." Celsus (On Medicine, Book
Four, chapter 5 (=12)) recommends bathing and standing in such cold mineral springs as those
at Cutiliae in cases where a patient suffers from inability of the stomach to assimilate food.--The
town itself is between Reate and Interocrea among the Sabines. (And compare Suetonius, Vespasian,
chapter 24).] so-called, in Sabine territory. Some, who endeavor falsely to incriminate Titus
(among them the emperor Hadrian) have spread a report that he was poisoned at a banquet. Portents
had occurred in his career indicating his approaching end, such as the comet star which was
seen for a considerable period and the opening of the monument of Augustus of its own accord.
When the sick man's physician chided him for continuing his usual course of living and attending
to all the duties that belonged to his office, he answered: "The emperor ought to die on his
feet." To those who said anything to him about the comet he responded: "This is an omen not
for me but for the Parthian king. He has flowing hair like the comet, whereas I am baldheaded."
When he at length came to the belief that he was to die, he said only: "Now I shall become
a god." He had lived to the age of sixty-nine years and eight months. His reign lasted ten
years lacking six days. Accordingly, it results that from the death of Nero to Vespasian's
becoming emperor a year and twenty-two days elapsed. I have recorded this fact to prevent a
misapprehension on the part of any persons who might reckon the time with reference to the
men who were in power. They, however, did not legitimately succeed one another, but each of
them while his rival was alive and still ruling believed himself to be emperor from the moment
that the thought first entered his head. One must not enumerate all the days of their reigns
as if those days had followed one after another in orderly succession, but make a single sweeping
calculation with the exact time, as I have stated it, in mind.

[Sidenote:--18--] At his death Titus succeeded to the imperial power. Titus as a ruler committed
no act of murder or passion, but showed himself upright, though the victim of plots, and self-controlled,
though Berenice came to Rome again. Perhaps this was because he had undergone a change. (To
share a reign with somebody else is a very different thing from being one's self an independent
ruler. In the former case persons are heedless of the good name of the sovereignty and enjoy
greedily the authority it gives them, thus doing many things that make their position the object
of envy and slander. Actual monarchs, on the other hand, knowing that everything depends on
their decision, have some eye to good repute as well as to other matters. So Titus said to
somebody whose society he had previously affected: "It is not the same thing to desire something
from another as to decide a case yourself, nor to ask something from another as it is to give
it to some one yourself.") Perhaps his satisfactory conduct was also due to his surviving so
short a time compared with most rulers, for he was thus given little opportunity for wrongdoing.
For he lived after this only two years, two months and twenty days in addition to his thirty-nine
years, five months and twenty-five days. People compare this feature of Titus's career with
the fullness of years of Augustus, and say that the latter would never have won affection if
he had lived a shorter time, nor the former, if he had lived longer. Augustus, though at the
outset he had shown himself rather harsh because of the wars and the political factions, was
able later in the course of time to become distinguished for his kindnesses: Titus ruled with
forbearance and died at the summit of his glory, whereas if he had enjoyed a longer life, it
might have been proved that he owes his present fame more to good fortune than to virtue.

[Sidenote:--19--] It is worth noting that Titus during his reign put no senator to death, nor
was any one else slain by him all the time that he was emperor. Cases involving maiestas he
would never entertain himself nor allow others to entertain, for he said: "It is impossible
for me to be insulted or outraged in any way. I do naught that deserves censure and I care
not for what is falsely reported. As for the emperors that are dead and gone, they will avenge
themselves in case any one does them wrong, if in very truth they be heroes and possess some
power."--He also made various arrangements to render men more secure and free from trouble.
One of these was the posting of a notice confirming all gifts bestowed upon any person by the
former emperors. This also enabled him to avoid the nuisance of having people petition him
individually about the matter.--Informers he banished from the city.

In money matters he was frugal and sanctioned no unnecessary expenditure, yet he did not punish
any one for opposite tendencies.

In his reign also the False Nero appeared, who was an Asiatic and called himself Terentius
Maximus. He resembled Nero in form and voice: he even sang to the zither's accompaniment. He
gained a few followers in Asia and in his onward progress to the Euphrates he secured a far
greater number and at length sought a retreat with Artabanus, the Parthian chief, who, out
of the anger that he felt toward Titus, both received the pretender and set about preparations
for restoring him to Rome. (Compare John of Antioch, frag. 104 Mueller).

[Sidenote:--20--] Meantime war had again broken out in Britain, and Gnaeus Julius Agricola
overran the whole of the hostile region. He was the first of the Romans whom we know to discover
that Britain was surrounded by water. Some soldiers had rebelled and after killing centurions
and a military tribune had taken refuge in boats. In these they put out to sea and sailed around
to the western portion of the country just as the billows and the wind bore them. And without
knowing it they came around from the opposite side and stopped at the camps on this side again.
At that Agricola sent others to try the voyage around Britain and learned from them, too, that
it was an island.

As a result of these events in Britain Titus received the title of imperator for the fifteenth
time. Agricola for the rest of his life lived in dishonor and even in want because he had accomplished
greater things than a mere general should. Finally he was murdered on this account by Domitian,
in spite of having received triumphal honors from Titus.

[Sidenote:--21--] In Campania remarkable and frightful occurrences took place. A great fire
was suddenly created just at the end of autumn. It was this way. The mountain Vesuvius stands
over against Naples near the sea and has unquenchable springs of fire. Once it was equally
high at all points and the fire rose from the center of it. This is the only portion of it
that is in a blaze, for the outside parts of the mountain remain even now unkindled. Consequently,
as the latter are never burned, while the interior is constantly growing brittle and being
reduced to ashes, the surrounding peaks retain their original height to this day, but the whole
section that is on fire, as it is consumed in the course of time, has grown hollow from continual
collapse. Thus the entire mountain, if we may compare great things to small, resembles a hunting-theatre.
The outlying heights of it support both trees and vines,--many of them,--but the crater is
given over to fire and sends up smoke by day, flame by night. It looks as if quantities of
incense of all sorts were being burned in it. This goes on all the time, sometimes more, sometimes
less. Often it throws up ashes, when there is a general settling in the interior, or again
it sends up stones when the air forces them out. It echoes and bellows, too, because its vents
are not all together but are narrow and hidden.

[Sidenote:--22--] Such is Vesuvius, and these phenomena regularly occur there at least once
a year. But all the other happenings that took place in former time, though they may have seemed
great and unusual to those who on each occasion observed them, nevertheless would be reckoned
as but slight in comparison with what now occurred even though they should all be rolled into
one. This was what befell. Numbers of huge men quite surpassing any human stature,--such creatures
as giants are depicted to be,--appeared now on the mountain, now in the country surrounding
it, and again in the cities, wandering over the earth day and night and also traversing the
air. After this fearful droughts and earthquakes sudden and violent occurred, so that all the
level ground in that region undulated and the heights gave a great leap. Reverberations were
frequent, some subterranean resembling thunder and some on the surface like bellowings. The
sea joined the roar and the sky resounded with it. Then suddenly a portentous crash was heard,
as if the mountains were tumbling in ruins. And first there were belched forth stones of huge
size that rose to the very summits before they fell; after them came a deal of fire and smoke
in inexhaustible quantities so that the whole atmosphere was obscured and the whole sun was
screened from view as if in an eclipse. [Sidenote:--23--] Thus night succeeded day and darkness
light. Some thought the giants were rising in revolt (for even at this time many of their forms
could be discerned in the smoke and moreover a kind of sound of trumpets was heard), while
others believed that the whole world was disappearing in chaos or fire. Therefore they fled,
some from the houses into the streets, others from without into the house; in their confusion,
indeed, they hastened from the sea to the land or from the land to the sea, deeming any place
at a distance from where they were safer than what was near by. While this was going on an
inconceivable amount of ashes was blown out and covered the land and the sea everywhere and
filled all the air. It did harm of all sorts, as chance dictated, to men and places and cattle,
and the fish and the birds it utterly destroyed. Moreover, it buried two whole cities, Herculaneum
and Pompeii, while the populace was seated in the theatre. The entire amount of dust was so
great that some of it reached Africa and Syria and Egypt, and it also entered Rome, where it
occupied all the air over the city and cast the sun into shadow. There, too, no little fear
was felt for several days, since the people did not know and could not conjecture what had
happened. They like the rest thought that everything was being turned upside down, that the
sun was disappearing in the earth and the earth was bounding up to the sky. This ashes for
the time being did them no great harm: later it bred among them a terrible pestilence.

[Sidenote: A.D. 80 (a.u. 833)] [Sidenote:--24--] Another fire, above ground, in the following
year spread over a very large portion of Rome while Titus was absent on business connected
with the catastrophe that had befallen in Campania. It consumed the temple of Serapis, the
temple of Isis, the Saepta, the temple of Neptune, the Baths of Agrippa, the Pantheon, the
Diribitorium, the theatre of Balbus, the stage-building of Pompey's theatre, the Octavian buildings
together with their books, and the temple of Capitoline Jupiter with its surrounding temples.
Hence the disaster seemed to be not of human but of divine contrivance. Any one can estimate
from the list of buildings that I have given, how many more must have been destroyed. Titus,
accordingly, sent two exconsuls to the Campanians to supervise the founding of settlements
and bestowed upon the inhabitants money that came (besides various other sources) from those
citizens that had died without heirs. As for himself, he took nothing from individual or city
or king, although many kept offering and promising him large sums. In spite of this, he restored
everything from funds already at hand. [Sidenote:--25--] Most of his deeds had no unusual quality
to mark them, but in dedicating the hunting-theatre and the baths that bear his name he produced
many remarkable spectacles. Cranes fought with one another, and four elephants, as well as
other grazing animals and wild beasts, to the number of nine thousand, were slaughtered, and
women (not of any prominence, however,) took part in despatching them. Of men several fought
in single combat and several groups contended together in infantry and naval battles. For Titus
filled the above mentioned theatre suddenly with water and introduced horses and bulls and
some other tractable creatures that had been taught to behave in the liquid element precisely
as upon land. He introduced also human beings on boats. These persons had a sea-fight there,
impersonating two parties, Corcyreans and Corinthians: others gave the same performance outside
in the grove of Gaius and Lucius, a spot which Augustus had formerly excavated for this very
purpose. There, on the first day, a gladiatorial combat and slaughter of beasts took place;
this was done by building a structure of planks over the lake that faced the images and placing
benches round about it. On the second day there was a horse-race, and on the third a naval
battle involving three thousand men. Afterwards there was also an infantry battle. The Athenians
conquered the Syracusans (these were the names that were used in the naval battle), made a
landing on the islet, and having assaulted a wall constructed around the monument took it.
These were the sights offered to spectators, and they lasted for a hundred days.

Titus also contributed some things that were of practical use to the people. He would throw
down into the theatre from aloft little wooden balls that had a mark, one signifying something
to eat, another clothing, another a silver vessel, or perhaps a gold one, or again horses,
pack-animals, cattle, slaves. Those who snatched them had to carry them back to the dispensers
of the bounty to secure the article of which the name was inscribed.

[Sidenote: A.D. 81 (a.u. 834)] [Sidenote:--26--] When he had finished this exhibition, he wept
so bitterly on the last day that all the people saw him, and after this time he performed no
other great deed; but the following year, in the consulship of Flavius [Footnote: L. Flavius
Silva Nonius Bassus.] and Pollio, [Footnote: Asinius Pollio Verrucosus.] subsequent to the
dedication of the buildings mentioned, he passed away at the same Aquae that was the scene
of his father's demise. The common report had it that he was done to death by his brother,
for he had previously been the object of that person's plot: but some writers state that a
disease carried him off. The tradition is that, while he was still breathing and had a possible
chance of recovery, Domitian, to hasten his end, put him in a box packed with a quantity of
snow, pretending that the disease required a chill to be administered; and, before his victim
was dead, he rode off to Rome, entered the camp, and received the title and authority of emperor,
having given the soldiers all that his brother had been wont to give them. Titus, as he expired,
said: "I have made but one error." What this was he did not reveal, and no one else feels quite
sure about it. Some have conjectured one thing and some another. The prevailing impression,
according to one set of historians, is that he referred to keeping his brother's wife, Domitia.
Others (whom I am for following) say what he meant was that, after finding Domitian openly
plotting against him, he had not killed him, but had chosen rather himself to suffer that fate
at his rival's hands and to surrender the government of Rome to a man whose nature will be
portrayed in the continuation of my narrative. Titus had ruled for two years, two months, and
twenty days, as has been previously stated.

DIO'S ROMAN HISTORY 67

Domitian's cruel character: his hatred of his father and brother (chapters 1, 2).

He puts aside Domitia: falls in love with Julia: slays the Vestals (chapter 3).

The German war (chapters 4, 5).

Dacian war with Decebalus (chapters 6, 7).

Domitian's nocturnal spectacles and entertainments (chapters 8, 9).

Events of the Dacian war (chapter 10).

Antonius, governor of Germany, rebels: many are slain (chapters 11-14).

How Domitian was killed through snares laid by certain men (chapters 15-18).

DURATION OF TIME.

L. Fl. Silva Nonius Bassus, Asinius Pollio Verrucosus Cosa. (A.D. 81 = a.u. 834 = First of
Domitian, from Sept. 13th).

Domitianus Aug. (VIII), T. Flavius Sabinus. (A.D. 82 = a.u. 835 = Second of Domitian).

Domitianus Aug. (IX), Q. Petilius Rufus (II). (A.D. 83 = a.u. 836 = Third of Domitian).

Domitianus Aug. (X), T. Aurelius Sabinus. (A.D. 84 = a.u. 837 = Fourth of Domitian).

Domitianus Aug. (XI), T. Aurelius Fulvus. (A.D. 85 = a.u. 838 = Fifth of Domitian).

Domitianus Aug. (XII), Ser. Cornelius Dolabella. (A.D. 88 = a.u. 839 = Sixth of Domitian).

Domitianus Aug. (XIII), A. Volusius Saturninus. (A.D. 87 = a.u. 840 = Seventh of Domitian).

Domitianus Aug. (XIV), L. Minucius Rufus. (A.D. 88 = a.u. 841 = Eighth of Domitian).

T. Aurelius Fulvus (II), A. Sempronius Atratinus. (A.D. 89 = a.u. 842 = Ninth of Domitian).

Domitianus Aug. (XV), M. Cocceius Nerva (II). (A.D. 90 = a.u. 843 = Tenth of Domitian).

M. Ulpius Traianus, Manius Acilius Glabrio. (A.D. 91 = a.u. 844 = Eleventh of Domitian). Domitianus
Aug. (XVI), Q. Volusius Saturninus. (A.D. 92 = a.u. 845 = Twelfth of Domitian).

Sex. Pompeius Collega, Cornelius Priscus. (A.D. 93 = a.u. 846 = Thirteenth of Domitian).

L. Nonius Asprenas, M. Arricinius Clemens. (A.D. 94 = a.u. 847 = Fourteenth of Domitian).

Domitianus Aug. (XVII), T. Flavius Clemens. (A.D. 95 = a.u. 848 = Fifteenth of Domitian).

Manlius Valens, Antistius Vetus. (A.D. 96 = a.u. 849 = Sixteenth of Domitian, to Sept. 18th).

[Sidenote: A.D. 81 (a.u. 834)] [Sidenote:--1--] Domitian was both, bold and passionate, both
treacherous and given to dissembling. Hence, from these two characteristics, rashness on the
one hand and craftiness on the other, he did much harm, falling upon some persons with the
swiftness of a thunderbolt and damaging others by carefully prepared plots. The divinity that
he chiefly revered was Minerva, so that he was wont to celebrate the Panathenaea on a magnificent
scale: on this occasion he had contests of poets and chroniclers and gladiators almost every
year at Albanum. This district, situated below the Alban Mount, from which it was named, he
had set apart as a kind of acropolis. He had no genuine affection for any human being save
a few women, but he always pretended to love the person whom at any time he was most determined
to slay. He could not be relied upon even by those who did him some favor or helped him in
his most revolting crimes, for whenever any persons furnished him with large sums of money
or lodged information against numbers of men, he was sure to destroy these benefactors, being
especially careful to do so in the case of slaves who had given information against their masters.
[Accordingly, such individuals, though, they received money and honors and offices all at once
from him, lived in no greater honor and security than other men. The very offences to which
they had [Sidenote: A.D. 82 (a.u. 835)] been urged by Domitian commonly were made pretexts
for their destruction, the emperor's object being to have the actual perpetrators appear solely
responsible for their wrongdoing. It was the same intention which led him once to issue a public
notice to the effect that, when an emperor does not punish informers he is the cause of the
existence of such a class.]

[Sidenote:--2--] Though this was his behavior to all throughout the course of his reign, still
he quite outdid himself in dealing dishonor and ruin to his father's and brother's friends.
[To be sure, he himself posted a notice that he would ratify all the gifts made to any persons
by them and by other emperors. But this was mere show.] He hated them because they did not
supply all his demands, many of which were unreasonable, as also because they had been held
in some honor. [Whatever had enjoyed their affection and the benefit of their influence beyond
the ordinary he regarded as hostile to him.] Therefore, although he himself had a passion for
a eunuch named Earinus, nevertheless, because Titus had also shown great liking for castrated
persons, he carried his desire to cast reflections on his brother's character to the extent
of forbidding any one thereafter in the Roman empire to be castrated. In general, he was accustomed
to say that those emperors who failed to punish large numbers of men were not good, but merely
fortunate. [Personally, he paid no attention to those who praised Titus for not causing a single
senator's death, nor did he care that the senate frequently saw fit to pass decrees that the
emperor should not be permitted to put to death any of his peers. The emperor, as he believed,
was far and away superior to them and might put any one of them out of the way either on his
own responsibility or with the consent of the rest; it was ridiculous to suppose that they
could offer any opposition or refuse to condemn a man. Some would praise Titus, only not in
Domitian's hearing; for such effrontery would be deemed as grave an offence as if they were
to revile the emperor in his presence and within hearing: but [Lacuna] [Footnote: A gap must
probably be construed here. Bekker (followed by Dindorf) regarded it as coming after "secretly"
and consisting of but a word or two (e.g. "he hated them") but Boissevain locates it as indicated
above and believes that considerably more is missing.] because he understood that they were
doing this secretly [Lacuna] Then there was another thing] that resembled play-acting. Domitian
pretended that he too loved his brother and mourned him. He read, with tears, the eulogies
upon him [and hastened to have him enrolled among the heroes], pretending just the opposite
of what he really wished. (Indeed, he abolished the horse-race on Titus's birthday). People
in general were not safe whether they sympathized with his indignation or with his joy. In
one case they [Footnote: Reading [Greek: emellon] (Dindorf, Boissevain).] were sure to offend
his feelings and in the other to let their lack of genuineness appear.

[Sidenote: A.D. 83 (a.u. 836)] [Sidenote:--3--] His wife, Domitia, he planned to put to death
on the ground of adultery, but, having been dissuaded by Ursus, he sent her away and midway
on the road murdered Paris, the dancer, because of her. And many people paid honor to that
spot with flowers [Sidenote: A.D. 83 (a.u. 836)] and perfumes, he gave orders that they, too,
should be slain. After this he took into his house, quite undisguisedly, his own niece,--Julia,
that is to say. [Then on petition of the people he became reconciled, to be sure, with Domitia,
but continued none the less his relations with Julia.]

He was removing many of the foremost men on many pretexts and by means of murders and banishments.
[He also conveyed many to some out-of-the-way place, where he got rid of them; and not a few
he caused to die in some way or other by their own acts that they might seem to have suffered
death by their own wish and not through outside force.] He did not spare even the vestal virgins,
but punished them on charges of their having had intercourse with men. It is further reported
that since their examination was conducted in a harsh and unfeeling manner, and many of them
were accused and constantly being punished, one of the pontifices, Helvius Agrippa, could not
endure it, but, horror-stricken, expired there in the senate where he sat. [Domitian also took
pride in the fact that he did not bury alive, as was the custom, the virgins he found guilty
of debauchery, but ordered them to be killed by some different way.]

After this he set out for Gaul and plundered some of the tribes across the Rhine enjoying treaty
rights,--a performance which filled him with conceit as if he had achieved some great success.
Presumably on account of the victory he increased the soldiers' wages, so that whereas each
had been receiving seventy-five denarii he commanded that a hundred be given them. Later he
thought better of it, but instead of diminishing the amount he curtailed the number of men-at-arms.
Both of these steps entailed great injury to the public weal: he had made the defenders of
the State too few, while rendering their support an item of great expense.

[Sidenote: A.D. 84 (a.u. 837)] [Sidenote:--4--] Next he made a campaign into Germany and returned
without having seen a trace of war anywhere. And what need is there of mentioning the honors
bestowed upon him at this juncture for his exploit or from time to time upon the other emperors
who were like him? For the object in any case was simply not to arouse the rage of those despots
by letting them suspect, in consequence of the small number and insignificance of the rewards,
that the people saw through them. Yet Domitian had this worst quality of all, that he desired
to be flattered, and was equally displeased with both sorts of men, those who paid court to
him and those who did not. He disliked the former because their attitude seemed one of cajolery
and the latter because it seemed one of contempt. Notwithstanding [he affected to take pleasure
in the honorary decrees voted him by the senate. Ursus he came near killing because he was
not pleased with his sovereign's exploits, and then, at the request of Julia, he appointed
him consul.] Subsequently, being still more puffed up by his folly, he was elected consul for
ten years in succession, and first and only censor for life of all private citizens and emperors:
and he obtained the right to employ twenty-four lictors and the triumphal garb whenever he
entered the senate-house. He gave October a new name, Domitianum, because he had been born
in that month. Among the charioteers he instituted two more parties, calling one the Golden
and the other the Purple. To the spectators he gave many objects by means of balls thrown among
them; and once he gave them a banquet while they remained in their seats and at night provided
for them wine that flowed out in several different places. All this caused pleasure seemingly
to the populace, but was a source of ruin to the powerful. For, as he had no resources for
his expenditures, he murdered numbers of men, bringing some of them before the senate and accusing
others in their absence. Lastly, he put some out of the way by concocting a plot and administering
to them secret drugs.

Many of the peoples tributary to the Romans revolted when contributions of money were forcibly
extorted from them. The Nasamones are an instance in point. They massacred all the collectors
of the money and so thoroughly defeated Flaccus, [Footnote: Probably Cn. Suellius Flaccus.]
governor of Numidia, who attacked them, that they were able to plunder his camp. Having gorged
themselves on the provisions and the wine that they found there they fell into a slumber, and
Flaccus becoming aware of this fact assailed and annihilated them all and destroyed the non-combatants.
Domitian experienced a thrill of delight at the news and remarked to the senate: "Well, I have
put a ban on the existence of the Nasamones."

Even as early as this he was insisting upon being regarded as a god and took a huge pleasure
in being called "master" and "god." These titles were used not merely orally but also in documents.

[Sidenote:--5--] Chariomerus, king of the Cherusci, had been driven out of his kingdom by the
Chatti on account of his friendship for the Romans. At first he gathered some companions and
was successful in his attempt to return. Later he was deserted by these men for having sent
hostages to the Romans and so became the suppliant of Domitian. He was not accorded an alliance
but received money.

In Moesia, [Footnote: An error of the excerptor. The Lygians lived north of Moesia.] the Lygians,
who had been at war with some of the Suebi, sent envoys, asking Domitian for an alliance. They
obtained one that was strong, not in numbers, but in dignity: in other words, they were granted
only a hundred knights. The Suebi, indignant at this, added to their contingent the Iazygae
and began to prepare well in advance to cross the Ister.

Masyus, king of the Semnones, and Ganna, a virgin (she was priestess in Celtica after Veleda),
came to Domitian and having been honored by him returned.

[Sidenote: A.D. 86 (a.u. 839)] [Sidenote:--6--] The greatest war that the Romans had on their
hands at this time was one against the Dacians. Decebalus was now king of the latter [since
Douras, to whom the sovereignty belonged, had voluntarily withdrawn from it in favor of Decebalus,
because]. He had a good comprehension of the rules of warfare and was good at putting them
in practice, displayed sagacity in advancing, took the right moment for retreating, was an
expert in ambuscades, a professional warrior, knew how to make good use of a victory and to
turn a defeat to advantage. Hence he showed himself for a long time a worthy antagonist of
the Romans.

I call the people Dacians, just as they name themselves and as the Romans do; but I am not
ignorant that some of the Greeks refer to them as Getae, whether that is the right term or
not. I myself know Getae that live along the Ister, beyond the Haemus range.

Domitian made an expedition against them, to be sure but did not enter into real conflict.
[Instead, he remained in a city of Moesia, rioting, as was his wont.] (Not only was he averse
to physical labor and timorous in spirit, but also most profligate and lewd toward women and
boys alike). But he sent others to officer the war and for the most part he got the worst of it.

[Sidenote: A.D. 87(?)] Decebalus, king of the Dacians, carried on negotiations with Domitian,
promising him peace. Domitian sent against him Fuscus [Footnote: Cornelius Fuscus, pretorian
prefect.] with a large force. On learning of it Decebalus sent an embassy to him anew, sarcastically
proposing to make peace with the emperor in case each of the Romans should choose to pay two
asses as tribute to Decebalus each year; if they should not choose to do so, he affirmed that
he should make war and afflict them with great ills.

Dio [Lacuna] 67th Book [Lacuna] "When the soldiers making the campaign with Fuscus asked him
to lead them."

[Sidenote: A.D. 90 (a.u. 843)] [Sidenote:--7--] Meantime he conceived a wish to take measures
against the Quadi and the Marcomani because they had not assisted him against the Dacians.
So he entered Pannonia to make war upon them, and the second set of envoys that they sent in
regard to peace he killed.

[Sidenote:--8--] The same man laid the blame for his defeat, however, upon his commanders.
All the superior plans he claimed for himself, though he executed none of them, but for the
inferior management he blamed others, even though it was through his orders that some accident
had taken place. Those who succeeded incurred his hatred and those who failed his censure.

Domitian, being defeated by the Marcomani, took to flight and by hastily sending messages to
Decebalus, king of the Dacians, induced him to make a truce with him. The monarch's frequent
previous requests had always met with refusal. Decebalus now accepted the arrangement, for
he was indeed hard pressed, yet he did not wish personally to hold a conference with Domitian,
but sent Diegis with other men to give him the arms and a few captives, whom he pretended were
the only ones he had. When this had been accomplished, Domitian set a diadem on the head of
Diegis, just as if he had in very truth conquered and could make some one king over the Dacians.
To the soldiers he granted honors and money. Like a victor, again, he sent on ahead to Rome,
besides many other things, envoys from Decebalus, and something which he affirmed was a letter
of his, though rumor declared it had been forged. He graced the festival that followed with
many articles pertaining to a triumph, though they did not belong to any booty he had taken;--quite
the reverse: and besides allowing the truce he made an outlay of a great deal of money immediately
and also presented to Decebalus artisans of every imaginable profession, peaceful and warlike,
and promised that he would give him a great deal more. These exhibits came from the imperial
furniture which he at all times treated as captive goods, because he had enslaved the empire
itself.

[Sidenote: A.D. 91 (a.u. 844)] So many rewards were voted him that almost the whole world (so
far as under his dominion) was filled with his images and statues of both silver and gold.
He also gave an extremely costly spectacle in regard to which we have noted nothing that was
striking for historical record, save that virgins contended in the foot-race. After this, in
the course of holding what seem to have been triumphal celebrations, he arranged numerous contests.
First of all, in the hippodrome he had battles of infantry against infantry, and again battles
of cavalry, and next he gave a naval battle in a new place. And there perished in it practically
all the naval combatants and numbers of the spectators. A great rain and violent storm had
suddenly come up, yet he allowed no one to leave the spectacle; indeed, though he himself changed
his clothing to a thick woolen cloak, he would not permit the people to alter their attire.
As a result, not a few fell sick and died. By way of consoling them for this, he provided them
at public expense a dinner lasting all night. Often, too, he would conduct games at night,
and sometimes he would pit dwarfs [Footnote: Reading [Greek: nanous] (Dindorf)] and women against
each other.

[Sidenote:--9--] So at this time he feasted the populace as described, but on another occasion
he entertained the foremost men of the senate and the knights in the following fashion. He
prepared a room that was pitch black on every side, ceiling, walls and floor, and had ready
bare couches, all alike, resting on the uncovered ground; then he invited in his guests alone,
at night, without their attendants. And first he set beside each of them a slab shaped like
a gravestone, bearing a person's name and also a small lamp, such as hangs in tombs. Next well-shaped,
naked boys, likewise painted black, entered after the manner of phantoms, and, after passing
around the guests in a kind of terrifying dance, took up their stations at their feet. After
that, whatever is commonly dedicated in the course of offerings to departed spirits was set
before them also, all black, and in dishes of a similar hue. Consequently, every single one
of the guests feared and trembled and every moment felt certain that he was to be slain, especially
as on the part of everybody save Domitian there was dead silence, as if they were already in
the realms of the dead, and the emperor himself limited his conversation to matters pertaining
to death and slaughter. Finally he dismissed them. But he had previously removed their servants,
who stood at the doorway, and gave them in charge of other, unknown slaves, to convey either
to carriages or litters, and by this act he filled them with far greater fear. Scarcely had
each one reached home and was beginning to a certain extent to recover his spirits, when a
message was brought him that some one was there from the Augustus. While they were expecting,
as a result of this, that now at last they should surely perish, one person brought in the
slab, which was of silver, then another something else, and another one of the dishes set before
them at the dinner, which proved to be made of some costly material. Finally came [Footnote:
Verb supplied by Xylander.] that particular boy who had been each one's familiar spirit, now
washed and decked out. Thus, while in terror all night long, they received their gifts.

Such was the triumph or, as the crowd said, such was the expiatory service that Domitian celebrated
for those who had died in Dacia and in Rome. Even at this time, too, he killed off some of
the foremost men. And he took away the property of whoever buried the body of any one of them,
because the victim had died on ground belonging to the sovereign.

[Sidenote:--10--] Here are some more events worth recording, that took place in the Dacian
War. Julianus, assigned by the emperor to take charge of the war, made many excellent regulations,
one being his command that the soldiers should inscribe their own names and those of the centurions
upon their shields, in order that those of them who committed any particular good or bad action
might be more readily observed by him. Encountering the enemy at Tapai, [Footnote: Pape thinks
that the proper Latin form of this word be Tabae.] he killed a very great number of them. Among
them Vezinas, who ranked next to Decebalus, since he could not get away alive, fell down purposely
as if dead. In this way he escaped notice and fled during the night. Decebalus, fearing that
the Romans now they had conquered would proceed against his residence, cut down the trees that
were on the site and attached weapons to the trunks, to the end that his foes might think them
soldiers, and so be frightened and withdraw. This actually took place.

[Sidenote:--11--] Antonius, a certain commander of this period in Germany, revolted against
Domitian: him Lucius Maximus overcame and overthrew. For his victory he does not deserve any
remarkable praise; [for many others have unexpectedly won victories, and his soldiers contributed
largely to his success:] but for his burning all the documents that were found in the chests
of Antonius, thus esteeming his own safety as of slight importance in comparison with having
no blackmail result from them, I do not see how I may celebrate his memory as it deserves.
But Domitian, as he had got a pretext from that source, proceeded to a series of slaughters
even without the documents, and no one could well say how many he killed. [Indeed, he condemned
himself so for this act that, to prevent any remembrance of the dead surviving, he prohibited
the inscribing of their names in the records. Furthermore, he did not even make any communication
to the senate regarding those put out of the way, although he sent their heads as well as that
of Antonius to Rome and exposed them in the Forum.] But one young man, Julius Calvaster, who
had served as military tribune in the hope of getting into the senate, was saved in a most
unexpected fashion. Inasmuch as it was being proved that he had frequent meetings with Antonius
alone and he had no other way to free himself from the charge of conspiracy, he declared that
he had met him for amorous intercourse. The fact that he was of an appearance to inspire passion
lent color to his statement. In this way he was acquitted.

After just one more remark about the events of that time, I will cease. Lusianus Proculus,
an aged senator, who spent most of his time in the country, had come out with Domitian from
Borne under compulsion so as to avoid the appearance of deserting him when in danger and the
death that might very likely be the result of such conduct. When the news came, he said: "You
have conquered, emperor, as I ever prayed. Therefore, restore me to the country." Thereupon
he left him without more ado and retired to his farm. And after this, although he survived
for a long time, he never came near him.

During this period some had become accustomed to smear needles with poison and then to prick
with them whomsoever they would. Many persons thus attacked died without even knowing the cause,
and many of the murderers were informed against and punished. And this went on not only in
Rome but over practically the entire civilized world.

[Sidenote:--12--] To Ulpius Trajan and to Acilius Glabrio, who were consuls then, the same
signs are said to have appeared. They foretold to Glabrio destruction, but to Trajan the imperial
office. [Numerous wealthy men and women both were punished for adultery, and some of the women
had been debauched by him. Many more were fined or executed on other charges.] A woman was
tried and lost her life because she had stripped in front of an image of Domitian [and another
for having had dealings with astrologers]. Among the many who perished at this time was also
Mettius Pompusianus, whom Vespasian had refused to harm in any way after learning from some
report that he would one day be sole ruler, but [Footnote: Reading [Greek: halla](Dindorf).]
rather honored, saying: "You will certainly remember me and will certainly honor me in return."
But Domitian first exiled him to Corsica and later put him to death, one of the complaints
being that he had the inhabited world painted on the walls of his bedchamber and another that
he had excerpted and was wont to read the speeches of kings and other eminent men that are
written in Livy. Also Maternus, a sophist, met his death because in a practice speech [Footnote:
Hartman (Mnemosyne, N. S. XXI, p. 395) would read [Greek: hasteion] for [Greek: haschon]. "Maternus
met his death because he had made some witty remark against tyrants." H. maintains that Domitian
could not know what Maternus said in his closet; but to the present translator the MS. tradition
seems to lend to this incident a greater homogeneousness of detail with the preceding, and
he retains it simply on that basis.] he had said something against tyrants. The emperor himself
used to visit both those who were to accuse and those who were to give evidence for condemnation,
and he would frame and compose everything that required to be said. Often, too, he would talk
to the prisoners alone, keeping tight hold of their chains with his hands. In the former case
he would not entrust to others what was to be said, and in the latter he feared the men even
in their bonds.

[Sidenote: A.D. 93 (a.u. 846)] [Sidenote:--13--] As censor, likewise, his behavior was noteworthy.
He expelled Caecilius Rufinus from the senate because he danced, and restored Claudius Pacatus,
though an ex-centurion, to his master because he was proved to be a slave. Having wasted his
substance in riotous living, this farmer made for himself, out of the mud in his garden, a
clay-model of the Mugen-Kane; and he beat the clay-bell, and broke it,-- crying out the while
for great wealth.

Then, out of the ground before him, rose up the figure of a white-robed woman, with long loose-flowing
hair, holding a covered jar. And the woman said: "I have come to answer your fervent prayer
as it deserves to be answered. Take, therefore, this jar." So saying, she put the jar into
his hands, and disappeared.

Into his house the happy man rushed, to tell his wife the good news. He set down in front of
her the covered jar,-- which was heavy,-- and they opened it together. And they found that
it was filled, up to the very brim, with... But no!-- I really cannot
tell you with what it was filled.

JIKININKI Once, when Muso Kokushi, a priest of the Zen sect, was
journeying alone through the province of Mino (1), he lost his way
in a mountain-district where there was nobody to direct him.

For a long time he wandered about helplessly; and he was beginning
to despair of finding shelter for the night, when he perceived, on
the top of a hill lighted by the last rays of the sun, one of those
little hermitages, called anjitsu, which are built for solitary priests.

It seemed to be in ruinous condition; but he hastened to it eagerly, and found that it was inhabited
by an aged priest, from whom he begged the favor of a night's lodging. This the old man harshly refused;
but he directed Muso to a certain hamlet, in the valley adjoining where lodging and food could
be obtained. Muso found his way to the hamlet, which consisted of less than a dozen farm-cottages;
and he was kindly received at the dwelling of the headman. Forty or fifty persons were assembled
in the principal apartment, at the moment of Muso's arrival; but he was shown into a small separate
room, where he was promptly supplied with food and bedding. Being very tired, he lay down
to rest at an early hour; but a little before midnight he was roused
from sleep by a sound of loud weeping in the next apartment.

Presently the sliding-screens were gently pushed apart; and a young man, carrying a lighted lantern,
entered the room, respectfully saluted him, and said:-- "Reverend Sir, it is my painful duty to tell you
that I am now the responsible head of this house. Yesterday I was only the eldest son. But when you
came here, tired as you were, we did not wish that you should feel embarrassed in any way: therefore
we did not tell you that father had died only a few hours before. The people whom you saw in
the next room are the inhabitants of this village: they all assembled here to pay their last
respects to the dead; and now they are going to another village,
about three miles off,-- for by our custom, no one of us may remain
in this village during the night after a death has taken place.

We make the proper offerings and prayers;-- then we go away, leaving the corpse alone. Strange things
always happen in the house where a corpse has thus been left: so we think that it will be better for
you to come away with us. We can find you good lodging in the other village. But perhaps, as you
are a priest, you have no fear of demons or evil spirits; and, if you are not afraid of being left
alone with the body, you will be very welcome to the use of this poor house. However, I must tell
you that nobody, except a priest, would dare to remain here tonight." Muso made answer:-- "For
your kind intention and your generous hospitality and am deeply grateful. But I am sorry that you
did not tell me of your father's death when I came;-- for, though I was a little tired, I certainly
was not so tired that I should have found difficulty in doing my duty as a priest. Had you told me, I
could have performed the service before your departure. As it is, I shall perform the service
after you have gone away; and I shall stay by the body until morning. I do not know what you
mean by your words about the danger of staying here alone; but I am not afraid of ghosts or demons: therefore
please to feel no anxiety on my account."

The young man appeared to be rejoiced by these assurances, and expressed
his gratitude in fitting words.

Then the other members of the family, and the folk assembled in the adjoining room, having been
told of the priest's kind promises, came to thank him,-- after which the master of the house said:--
"Now, reverend Sir, much as we regret to leave you alone, we must bid you farewell. By the rule of
our village, none of us can stay here after midnight. We beg, kind Sir, that you will take every
care of your honorable body, while we are unable to attend upon you. And if you happen to
hear or see anything strange during our absence, please tell us of the matter when we return
in the morning." All then left the house, except the priest, who
went to the room where the dead body was lying.

The usual offerings had been set before the corpse; and a small Buddhist lamp-- tomyo-- was burning.
The priest recited the service, and performed the funeral ceremonies,-- after which he entered into
meditation. So meditating he remained through several silent hours; and there was no sound in the
deserted village.

But, when the hush of the night was at its deepest, there noiselessly entered a Shape, vague and vast;
and in the same moment Muso found himself without power to move or speak. He saw that Shape
lift the corpse, as with hands, devour it, more quickly than a cat devours a rat,-- beginning at
the head, and eating everything: the hair and the bones and even the shroud. And the monstrous
Thing, having thus consumed the body, turned to the offerings, and
ate them also.

Then it went away, as mysteriously as it had come. When the villagers returned next morning, they
found the priest awaiting them at the door of the headman's dwelling. All in turn saluted
him; and when they had entered, and looked about the room, no one expressed any surprise at
the disappearance of the dead body and the offerings. But the master of the house said to Muso:--
"Reverent Sir, you have probably seen unpleasant things during the night: all of us were anxious
about you. But now we are very happy to find you alive and unharmed. Gladly we would have stayed
with you, if it had been possible. But the law of our village, as I told you last evening, obliges
us to quit our houses after a death has taken place, and to leave the corpse alone. Whenever this
law has been broken, heretofore, some great misfortune has followed.

Whenever it is obeyed, we find that the corpse and the offerings disappear during our absence.
Perhaps you have seen the cause."

Then Muso told of the dim and awful Shape that had entered the death-chamber to devour the body
and the offerings. No person seemed to be surprised by his narration; and the master of the house
observed:-- "What you have told us, reverend Sir, agrees with what has been said about this matter
from ancient time."

Muso then inquired:-- "Does not the priest on the hill sometimes perform
the funeral service for your dead?"

"What priest?" the young man asked. "The priest who yesterday evening directed me to this village,"
answered Muso. "I called at his anjitsu on the hill yonder. He refused me lodging, but told me the
way here." The listeners looked at each other, as in astonishment; and, after a moment of
silence, the master of the house said:-- "Reverend Sir, there is no priest and there is no anjitsu
on the hill. For the time of many generations there has not been
any resident-priest in this neighborhood."

Muso
said nothing more on the subject; for it was evident that his kind hosts supposed him to have
been deluded by some goblin.

But after
having bidden them farewell, and obtained all necessary information as to his road, he determined
to look again for the hermitage on the hill, and so to ascertain
whether he had really been deceived.

He found the anjitsu without any difficulty; and, this time, its
aged occupant invited him to enter.

When he had done so, the hermit humbly bowed down before him, exclaiming:--
"Ah!

I am ashamed!-- I am very much ashamed!-- I am exceedingly ashamed!"

"You need not be ashamed for having refused me shelter," said Muso. "You
directed me to the village yonder, where I was very kindly treated;
and I thank you for that favor."

I can give no man shelter, "the recluse made answer;-- and it is not
for the refusal that I am ashamed.

I am ashamed only that you should have seen me in my real shape,-- for it was I who devoured
the corpse and the offerings last night before your eyes... Know,
reverend Sir, that I am a jikininki, [1]-- an eater of human flesh.

Have pity upon me, and suffer me to confess the secret fault by which
I became reduced to this condition."

A long, long time ago, I was a priest in this desolate region. There
was no other priest for many leagues around.

So,
in that time, the bodies of the mountain-folk who died used to be
brought here,-- sometimes from great distances,-- in order that I
might repeat over them the holy service.

But I repeated the service and performed the rites only as a matter
of business;-- I thought only of the food and the clothes that my sacred
profession enabled me to gain.

And because of this selfish impiety I was reborn, immediately after
my death, into the state of a jikininki.

Since then I have been obliged to feed upon the corpses of the people
who die in this district: every one of them I must devour in the way
that you saw last night... Now, reverend Sir, let me beseech you to
perform a Segaki-service [2] for me: help me by your prayers, I entreat
you, so that I may be soon able to escape from this horrible state
of existence "... No sooner had the hermit uttered this petition than
he disappeared; and the hermitage also disappeared at the same instant.

And Muso Kokushi found himself kneeling alone in the high grass, beside
an ancient and moss-grown tomb of the form called go-rin-ishi, [3]
which seemed to be the tomb of a priest.

MUJINA On the Akasaka Road, in Tokyo, there is a slope called Kii-no-kuni-zaka,--
which means the Slope of the Province of Kii.

I do not know why it is called the Slope of the Province of Kii. On one
side of this slope you see an ancient moat, deep and very wide, with
high green banks rising up to some place of gardens;-- and on the
other side of the road extend the long and lofty walls of an imperial
palace.

Before the era of street-lamps and jinrikishas, this neighborhood was
very lonesome after dark; and belated pedestrians would go miles
out of their way rather than mount the Kii-no-kuni-zaka, alone, after
sunset.

All because of a Mujina that used to walk there. (1) The last man who
saw the Mujina was an old merchant of the Kyobashi quarter, who died
about thirty years ago. This is the story, as he told it:-- One night,
at a late hour, he was hurrying up the Kii-no-kuni-zaka, when he
perceived a woman crouching by the moat, all alone, and weeping bitterly.

Fearing that she intended to drown herself, he stopped to offer her any
assistance or consolation in his power.

She appeared to be a slight and graceful person, handsomely dressed;
and her hair was arranged like that of a young girl of good family."

O-jochu, "[1] he exclaimed, approaching her,--"

O-jochu, do not cry like that!... Tell me what the trouble is; and
if there be any way to help you, I shall be glad to help you. "(He
really meant what he said; for he was a very kind man.) But she continued
to weep,-- hiding her face from him with one of her long sleeves."

O-jochu, "he said again, as gently as he could,--" please, please listen
to me!... This is no place for a young lady at night! Do not cry, I implore
you!-- only tell me how I may be of some help to you!

"Slowly she rose up, but turned her back to him, and continued to moan
and sob behind her sleeve.

He laid his hand lightly upon her shoulder, and pleaded:--" O-jochu!--
O-jochu!-- O-jochu!... Listen to me, just for one little moment!...
O-jochu!-- O-jochu! "... Then that O-jochu turned around, and dropped
her sleeve, and stroked her face with her hand;-- and the man saw that
she had no eyes or nose or mouth,-- and he screamed and ran away.
(2) Up Kii-no-kuni-zaka he ran and ran; and all was black and empty
before him.

On and on he ran, never daring to look back; and at
last he saw a lantern, so far away that it looked like the gleam
of a firefly; and he made for it.

It proved to be only the lantern of an itinerant soba-seller, [2] who had
set down his stand by the road-side; but any light and any human companionship
was good after that experience; and he flung himself down at the
feet of the soba-seller, crying out," Ah!-- aa!!-- aa!!!

"..."

Kore! kore! "(3) roughly exclaimed the soba-man." Here! what is the matter with
you? Anybody hurt you? ""

No-- nobody hurt me, "panted the other,--" only... Ah!-- aa!

""-- Only scared you? "queried the peddler, unsympathetically." Robbers? "" Not robbers,-- not
robbers, "gasped the terrified man..." I saw... I saw a woman-- by
the moat;-- and she showed me... Ah! I cannot tell you what she showed
me!

"..." He! (4) Was it anything like THIS that she showed you? "cried
the soba-man, stroking his own face-- which therewith became like unto
an Egg... And, simultaneously, the light went out. ROKURO-KUBI Nearly
five hundred years ago there was a samurai, named Isogai Heidazaemon
Taketsura, in the service of the Lord Kikuji, of Kyushu.

This Isogai had inherited, from many warlike ancestors, a natural
aptitude for military exercises, and extraordinary strength.

While yet a boy he had surpassed his teachers in the art of swordsmanship, in archery, and
in the use of the spear, and had displayed all the capacities of
a daring and skillful soldier.

Afterwards, in the time of the Eikyo [1] war, he so distinguished himself that high honors were
bestowed upon him. But when the house of Kikuji came to ruin, Isogai found himself without a master.
He might then easily have obtained service under another daimyo; but as he had never sought distinction
for his own sake alone, and as his heart remained true to his former lord, he preferred to give
up the world. So he cut off his hair, and became a traveling priest,-- taking the Buddhist name
of Kwairyo. But always, under the koromo [2] of the priest, Kwairyo kept warm within him
the heart of the samurai. As in other years he had laughed at peril, so now also he scorned danger;
and in all weathers and all seasons he journeyed to preach the good Law in places where no other priest would
have dared to go. For that age was an age of violence and disorder; and upon the highways there was
no security for the solitary traveler, even if he happened to be a priest. In the course of his first long
journey, Kwairyo had occasion to visit the province of Kai. (1) One evening, as he was traveling through the mountains of that
province, darkness overcame him in a very lonesome district, leagues
away from any village. So he resigned himself to pass the night under
the stars; and having found a suitable grassy spot, by the roadside,
he lay down there, and prepared to sleep.

He had always welcomed discomfort; and even a bare rock was for him
a good bed, when nothing better could be found, and the root of a
pine-tree an excellent pillow.

His body was iron; and he never troubled himself about dews or rain or frost or snow. Scarcely
had he lain down when a man came along the road, carrying an axe and a great bundle of chopped
wood. This woodcutter halted on seeing Kwairyo lying down, and, after a moment of silent observation,
said to him in a tone of great surprise:--" What kind of a man can you be, good Sir, that you
dare to lie down alone in such a place as this?... There are haunters about here,-- many of
them. Are you not afraid of Hairy Things?

"" My friend, "cheerfully answered Kwairyo," I am only a wandering priest,-- a'Cloud-and-Water-Guest,'as
folks call it: Unsui-no-ryokaku.

(2) And I am not in the least afraid of Hairy Things,-- if you mean
goblin-foxes, or goblin-badgers, or any creatures of that kind.

As for lonesome places, I like them: they are suitable for meditation.

I am accustomed to sleeping in the open air: and I have learned never
to be anxious about my life. ""

You must be indeed a brave man, Sir Priest, "the peasant responded,"
to lie down here!

This place has a bad name,-- a very bad name. But, as the proverb has it, Kunshi ayayuki ni chikayorazu
['The superior man does not needlessly expose himself to peril'];
and I must assure you, Sir, that it is very dangerous to sleep here.

Therefore, although my house is only a wretched thatched hut, let
me beg of you to come home with me at once.

In the
way of food, I have nothing to offer you; but there is a roof at least, and you can sleep under
it without risk. "He spoke earnestly; and Kwairyo, liking the kindly tone of the man, accepted this
modest offer.

The woodcutter guided him along a narrow path, leading up from the main road through mountain-forest.
It was a rough and dangerous path,-- sometimes skirting precipices,-- sometimes offering nothing
but a network of slippery roots for the foot to rest upon,-- sometimes winding over or between
masses of jagged rock. But at last Kwairyo found himself upon a cleared space at the top of a hill,
with a full moon shining overhead; and he saw before him a small thatched cottage, cheerfully lighted
from within. The woodcutter led him to a shed at the back of the house, whither water had been conducted,
through bamboo-pipes, from some neighboring stream; and the two men
washed their feet.

Beyond the shed was a vegetable garden, and a grove of cedars and
bamboos; and beyond the trees appeared the glimmer of a cascade, pouring
from some loftier height, and swaying in the moonshine like a long
white robe.

As
Kwairyo entered the cottage with his guide, he perceived four persons--
men and women-- warming their hands at a little fire kindled in the
ro [3] of the principle apartment.

  They bowed low to the priest, and greeted him in the most respectful manner.
  Kwairyo wondered that persons so poor, and dwelling in such a solitude,
should be aware of the polite forms of greeting."

These are good people, "he thought to himself;" and they must have been taught by some one well
acquainted with the rules of propriety.

"Then turning to his host,-- the aruji, or house-master, as the others called him,-- Kwairyo said:--"
From the kindness of your speech, and from the very polite welcome given me by your household,
I imagine that you have not always been a woodcutter.

Perhaps you formerly belonged to one of the upper classes? "Smiling, the woodcutter answered:--"
Sir, you are not mistaken. Though now living as you find me, I was once a person of some distinction.
My story is the story of a ruined life-- ruined by my own fault.
I used to be in the service of a daimyo; and my rank in that service
was not inconsiderable.

But I loved women and wine too well; and under the influence of passion
I acted wickedly.

My selfishness brought about the ruin of our house, and caused the death of many persons. Retribution
followed me; and I long remained a fugitive in the land. Now I often pray that I may be able to
make some atonement for the evil which I did, and to reestablish
the ancestral home.

But I fear that I shall never find any way of so doing. Nevertheless,
I try to overcome the karma of my errors by sincere repentance, and by
helping as afar as I can, those who are unfortunate.

"Kwairyo was pleased by this announcement of good resolve; and he
said to the aruji:--"

My friend, I have had occasion to observe that man, prone to folly in their youth, may in after years
become very earnest in right living. In the holy sutras it is written that those strongest in
wrong-doing can become, by power of good resolve, the strongest in right-doing. I do not doubt that
you have a good heart; and I hope that better fortune will come to you. To-night I shall recite
the sutras for your sake, and pray that you may obtain the force
to overcome the karma of any past errors.

"With these assurances, Kwairyo bade the aruji good-night; and his host
showed him to a very small side-room, where a bed had been made ready.

Then all went to sleep except the priest, who began to read the sutras by the light of a paper lantern.
Until a late hour he continued to read and pray: then he opened a little window in his little sleeping-room,
to take a last look at the landscape before lying down. To slanders he paid very little heed and was
no slave of anger. He refrained equally from the money of others and from unjust murders. [Sidenote:--7--]
He expended vast sums on wars and vast sums on works of peace; and while making very many most
necessary repairs on roads and harbors and public buildings, he drained no one's blood for
these undertakings. His nature was so noble and magnanimous that even upon the hippodrome he
merely inscribed the statement that he had made it suitable for the Roman people when it had
crumbled away in spots, and had rendered it larger and more beautiful. For these deeds he was
better satisfied to be loved than honored. His meetings with the people were marked by affability
and his intercourse with the senate by dignity. He was loved by all and dreaded by none save
the enemy. He joined people in hunting and banquets, and in work and plans and jokes. Often
he would make a fourth in somebody's litter, and sometimes he would enter persons' houses even
without a guard and make himself at home. He lacked education in the exact sense,--book-learning,
at least,--but he both understood and carried out its spirit, and there was no quality of his
that was not excellent. I know well enough that he was given to wine and boys, but if he had
ever committed or endured any base or wicked deed as a result of this, he would have incurred
censure. As the case stood, he drank all the wine he wanted, yet remained sober, and his pursuit
of pederasty harmed no one. And even if he did delight in war, still he was satisfied with
success in it,--with overthrowing a most hostile element and bettering his own side. Nor did
the usual thing under such circumstances,--conceit and arrogance on the part of the soldiers,--ever
manifest itself during his reign; with such a firm hand did he rule them. For these reasons
Decebalus was somewhat justified in fearing him.

[Sidenote:--8--] When Trajan, in the course of his campaign against the Dacians had come near
Tapai, where the barbarians were encamping, a large mushroom was brought to him, on which it
said in Latin characters that the Buri and other allies advised Trajan to turn back and make
peace. At Trajan's first encounter with the foe he visited many of the wounded on his own side
and killed many of the enemy. And when the bandages gave out, he is said not to have spared
even his own clothing, but to have cut it up into strips. In honor of the soldiers that had
died in battle he ordered an altar erected and the performance of funeral rites annually.

[Sidenote:--9--] [Decebalus had sent envoys also before the defeat, and no longer the long-haired
men, as before, but the chief among the cap-wearers. [Footnote: Latin, pileati. The distinction
drawn is that between the plebeians and the nobles, to whom reference is made respectively
by the terms "unshorn" and "covered." Compare here the make up of the Marcomanian embassy in
Book Seventy-two, chapter two.] These threw down their arms and casting themselves upon the
earth begged Trajan that if possible Decebalus himself be allowed to meet and confer with him,
promising that he would do everything that might be commanded; or, if not, that at least some
one should be despatched to agree upon terms with him. Those sent were Sura and Claudius Livianus,
the prefect; but nothing was accomplished, for Decebalus did not dare even to come near them.
He sent representatives also on this occasion.

Trajan had now seized some fortified mountains and on them found the arms and the captured
engines, as well as the standard which had been taken in the time Fuscus. [Sidenote: A.D. 101
(a.u. 854)] Undertaking to ascend the heights themselves, he secured one crest after another
amid dangers and approached the capital of the Dacians. Lusius, attacking in another quarter,
slaughtered numbers and captured still more alive. Then Decebalus sent envoys.

Decebalus, for this reason, and particularly because Maximus at the same time had possession
of his sister and a strong position, was ready to agree without exception to every demand made.
It was not that he intended to abide by his agreement, but he wanted to secure a respite from
his temporary reverses.] So, though against his will, he made a compact to surrender his arms,
engines, and manufacturers of engines, to give back the deserters, to demolish his forts, to
withdraw from captured territory, and furthermore to consider the same persons enemies and
friends as the Romans did [besides neither giving shelter to any of the deserters, [Footnote:
Reading [Greek: automolon tina] (Boissevain).] nor employing any soldiers from the Roman empire,
for he had acquired the largest and best part of his force by persuading them to come from
that quarter]. When he came into Trajan's presence, he fell upon the earth and did obeisance
[and cast away his arms. He also sent envoys to the senate to secure these terms, in order
that he might have the further ratification of the peace by that body. At the conclusion of
this compact the emperor left a camp in Sarmizegethusa, and, having placed garrisons at intervals
through the remainder of the territory, returned to Italy.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 103 (a.u. 856)] [Sidenote:--10--] The envoys from Decebalus were introduced
in the senate. They laid down their arms, clasped their hands in the posture of captives, and
spoke some words of supplication; thus they obtained peace and received back their arms. Trajan
celebrated a triumph and was given the title of Dacicus; in the theatre he had contests of
gladiators, in whom he delighted, and he brought back dancers once more to the theatre, being
in love with one of them, Pylades. However, he did not pay less attention to general administration,
as might have been expected of a warlike personage, nor did he hold court the less: on the
contrary, he conducted trials now in the forum of Augustus, now in the porch named the Porch
of Livia, and often elsewhere on a platform.

And since Decebalus was reported to him to be acting in many ways contrary to the treaty, since
he was gathering arms, receiving such as deserted, repairing the forts, sending ambassadors
to the neighbors, and injuring those who had previously differed with him, since also he was
devastating some land of the Iazygae (which Trajan later would not give back to them when they
asked for it), therefore, the senate voted that he was again an enemy. And Trajan again conducted
the war against him, commanding in person and not represented by others.

[Sidenote: A.D. 104 (a.u. 857)] [Sidenote:--11--] [As numerous Dacians kept transferring their
allegiance to Trajan, and for certain other reasons, Decebalus again requested peace. But since
he could not be persuaded to surrender both his arms and himself, he proceeded openly to collect
troops and called the surrounding nations to his aid, saying that if they deserted him they
themselves would come into danger and that it was safer and easier by fighting on his side
to preserve their freedom, before suffering any harm, than if they should allow his people
to be destroyed and then later be subjugated when bereft of allies.] And Decebalus in the open
field came off poorly, but by craft and deceit he almost compassed the death of Trajan. He
sent into Moesia some deserters to see whether they could make away with him, inasmuch as the
emperor was generally accessible, and now, on account of the needs of warfare, admitted to
conference absolutely every one who desired it. But this plan they were unable to carry out,
since one of them was arrested on suspicion and, under torture, revealed the entire plot.

[Sidenote:--12--] Longinus was the commandant of the Roman camp who had made himself a terror
to the Dacian leader in warfare. The latter, therefore, sent him an invitation and persuaded
him to meet him, on the pretext that he would perform whatever should be enjoined. He then
arrested him and questioned him publicly about Trajan's plans. As the Roman would not yield
at all, he took him about with him under guard, though not in bonds. And [Decebalus sending
an envoy to Trajan, asked that he might get back the territory as far as the Ister and receive
indemnity for all the money he had spent on the war,] in recompense for restoring Longinus
to him. An ambiguous answer was returned, of a kind that would not make Decebalus think that
the emperor regarded Longinus as of either great value or small, the object being to prevent
his being destroyed on the one hand, or being preserved on excessive terms, on the other. So
Decebalus delayed, still considering what he should do.

Meanwhile Longinus, having [through his freedman] secured a poison [--he had promised Decebalus
that he would reconcile Trajan to the proposition, in order that the Dacian should be as far
as possible from suspecting what was to happen, and so not keep an especially careful watch
over him. Also, to enable his servant to attain safety, he wrote a letter containing a supplication,
and gave it to the freedman to carry to Trajan. Then, when he had gone, at night he took the
poison,] drank it and died. [After this event Decebalus asked Trajan to give him back his freedman,
promising to give him in return the body of Longinus and ten captives. He sent at once the
centurion who had been captured with the dead general, assuming that this man would arrange
the matter for him; and it was from the centurion that the whole story of Longinus was learned.
However, Trajan neither sent him back, nor surrendered the freedman, deeming his safety more
valuable for establishing the dignity of the empire than the of Longinus.]

[Sidenote:--13--] Now, Trajan constructed over the Ister a stone bridge, for which I cannot
sufficiently admire him. His other works are most brilliant, but this surpasses them. There
are twenty square pieces of stone, the height of which is one hundred and fifty feet above
the foundations and the breadth sixty, and these, standing at a distance of one hundred and
seventy feet from one to another, are connected by arches. How then could one fail to be astonished
at the expenditure made upon them? Or the manner in which each of them was placed in a river
so deep, in water so full of eddies, on ground so slimy? It was impossible, you note, to divert
the course of the river in any direction. I have spoken of the breadth of the river; but the
stream is not uniformly so limited, since it covers in some places twice and elsewhere thrice
as much ground, but the narrowest point, and the one in that region most adapted to bridge-building,
has just those dimensions. Yet the very fact that the river here shrinks from a great flood
to such a narrow channel and is here confined, though it again expands into a greater flood,
makes it all the more violent and deep; and this feature must be considered in estimating the
difficulty of preparing a bridge. This achievement, then, shows the greatness of Trajan's designs,
though the bridge is of no particular use to us. Merely the piers are standing, affording no
means of crossing, as if they were erected for the sole purpose of demonstrating that there
is nothing which human energy can not accomplish. Trajan's reason for constructing the bridge
was his fear that, some time when the Ister was frozen, war might be made on the Romans across
the water, and his desire to enjoy the easy access to them that this work would permit. Hadrian,
on the contrary, was afraid that the barbarians might overpower the guard at the bridge and
cross into Moesia, and so he removed the surface work.

[Sidenote: A.D. 105 (a.u. 858)] [Sidenote:--14--] Trajan, having crossed the Ister on this
bridge, conducted the war with prudence, rather than with haste, and eventually, after a hard
struggle, vanquished the Dacians. In the course of these encounters he personally performed
many deeds of good generalship and bravery, and his soldiers ran many risks and displayed great
prowess on his behalf. It was here that a certain horseman, dangerously wounded, was carried
from the battle on the supposition that he could be healed; but, when he found that he could
not recover, he rushed from his quarters (since his hurt had not incapacitated him) and stationing
himself in the line again he perished, after having displayed great valor. [Sidenote: A.D.
106 (a.u. 859)] Decebalus, when his capital and all his territory had been occupied and he
was himself in danger of being captured, committed suicide, and his head was brought to Rome.

In this way Dacia became subject to Rome and Trajan founded cities there. The treasures of
Decebalus were also discovered, though hidden beneath the Sargetia river, which ran past his
palace. He had made some captives divert the course of the river and had then excavated its
bed. There he had placed a large amount of silver and of gold and other objects of great value,
that could endure some moisture, had heaped stones over them and piled on earth. After that
he had let the river flow over them. The same captives were compelled to deposit his robes
and other similar objects in neighboring caves; and when he had effected this, he made away
with them to prevent their talking. But Bicilis, a comrade of his, who knew what had been done,
was seized and gave this information.--About this same time, Palma, who was governor of Syria,
subdued the portion of Arabia, near Petra, and made it subservient to the Romans.

[Sidenote:--15--] [The ambassadors who came from the kings were given seats by Trajan in the
senatorial row at spectacles.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 107 (a.u. 860)] Upon Trajan's return to Rome the greatest imaginable number
of embassies came to him from the barbarians, even the Indi being represented. And he gave
spectacles on one hundred and twenty-three days. At these affairs thousands, yes, possibly
tens of thousands of animals, both wild and tame, were slaughtered, and fully ten thousand
gladiators fought in combat.

About the same period he made the Pontine marshes traversable by means of a stone foundation,
and built roads alongside, which he furnished with most magnificent bridges.--All the obsolete
money he had melted down.

[He had sworn not to commit bloodshed and he confirmed his promise by his actions in spite
of plots. He was by nature not at all given to duplicity or guile or harshness. He loved and
greeted and honored the good, and the rest he neglected. His age made him still more inclined
to mildness.] When Licinius Sura died, he bestowed upon him a public funeral and a statue.
This man had attained such a degree of wealth and pride that he built a gymnasium for the Romans.
So great was the friendship and confidence [which Sura showed toward Trajan and Trajan toward
him that although the man was often slandered,--as naturally happens in the case of all those
who possess any influence with the emperors,--Trajan never felt a moment's suspicion or hatred.
On the contrary, when those who envied him became insistent, Trajan] went [uninvited to his
house] to dinner. And having dismissed his whole body-guard he first called Sura's physician
and had him anoint his eyes and then his barber shave his chin. Anciently the emperors themselves
as well as all other people used to do this. It was Hadrian who first set the fashion of wearing
a beard. When he had done this, he next took a bath and had dinner. So the next day he said
to his friends who were always in the habit of making statements detrimental to Sura: "If Sura
had wanted to kill me, he would have killed me yesterday." [Sidenote:--16--] Now he did a great
thing in running this risk in the case of a man who had been calumniated, but a still greater
thing in believing that he would never be harmed by him.

So it was that the confidence of his mind was strengthened by his own knowledge of his dealings
with Sura instead of being influenced by the fancies of others.

Indeed, when he first handed to him [Footnote: Saburanus. (?)] who was to be prefect of the
Pretorians the sword which the latter required to wear by his side, he bared the blade, holding
it up said: "Take this sword, to the end that if I rule well, you may use it for me, but if
ill, against me."

He also set up images of Sosia and Palma and Celsus, [Footnote: L. Publilius Celsus.]--so greatly
did he esteem them above others. Those, however, who conspired against him (among whom was
Crassus) he brought before the senate and caused to be punished.

[Sidenote: A.D. 114 (a.u. 867)] Again he gathered collections of books. And he set up in the
Forum an enormous column, to serve at once as a sepulchral monument to himself and as a reminder
of his work in the Forum. The whole region there was hilly and he dug it down for a distance
equaling the height of the column, thus making the Forum level.

[Sidenote:--17--] Next he made a campaign against the Armenians and Parthians on the pretext
that the Armenian king [Footnote: Exedares.] had obtained his diadem not at his hands but from
the Parthian king. [Footnote: Osrhoes.] His real reason, however, was a desire to win fame.
[On his campaign against the Parthians, when he had reached Athens, an embassy from Osrhoes
met him asking for peace and proffering gifts. This king had learned of his advance and was
terrified because Trajan was wont to make good his threats by deeds. Therefore he humbled his
pride and sent a supplication that war be not made against him: he asked Armenia for Parthomasiris,
who was likewise a son of Pacorus, and requested that the diadem be sent to him. He had put
a stop, he said, to the reign of Exedares, who was beneficial neither to the Romans nor to
the Parthians.

The emperor neither received the gifts, nor sent any answer or command, save that friendship
is determined by deeds and not by words; and that accordingly when he should reach Syria he
would do what was proper.

And being of this mind he proceeded through Asia, Syria, and adjoining provinces to Seleucia.
Upon his coming to Antioch, Abgarus the Osrhoenian did not appear in person, but sent gifts
and a friendly communication. For, as he dreaded both him and the Parthians, he was trying
to play a double game and for that reason would not come to confer with him.]

[Sidenote:--19--] Parthomasiris behaved in rather violent fashion. In his first letter to Trajan
he had signed himself as king, but when no answer came to his epistle, he wrote again, omitting
this title, and asked that Marcus Junius, the governor of Cappadocia, be sent to him, implying
that he wanted to prefer some request through him. Trajan, accordingly, sent him the son of
Junius, and himself went ahead to Arsamosata, of which he took possession without a struggle.
Then he came to Satala and rewarded with gifts Anchialus, the king of the Heniochi and Machelones.
At Elegeia in Armenia he awaited Parthomasiris. He was seated upon a platform in the trenches.
The prince greeted him, took off his diadem from his head, and laid it at his feet. Then he
stood there in silence, expecting to receive it back. At this the soldiers shouted aloud, and
hailed Trajan imperator as if on account of some victory. (They termed it an uncrowned, [Footnote:
Reading [Greek: haselinon] (Bekker) = "without the parsley crown" (such as was bestowed upon
victors in some of the Greek games).] bloodless victory to see the king, a descendant of Arsaces,
a son of Pacorus, and a nephew of Osrhoes, standing beside Trajan without a diadem, like a
captive). The shout terrified the prince, who thought that it heralded insult and destruction
for him. He turned about as if to flee, but, seeing that he was hemmed in on all sides, begged
as a favor not to be obliged to speak before the crowd. Accordingly, he was escorted into the
tent, where he had none of his wishes granted. [Sidenote:--20--] So out he rushed in a rage,
and from there out of the camp, but Trajan sent for him, and again ascending the platform bade
him speak in the hearing of all everything that he desired. This was to prevent any person
from spreading a false report through ignorance of what had been said in private conference.
On hearing this exhortation Parthomasiris no longer kept silence, but with great frankness
made many statements, some of them being to the effect that he had not been defeated or captured,
but had come there voluntarily, believing that he should not be wronged and should receive
back the kingdom, as Tiridates had received it from Nero. Trajan made appropriate replies to
all his remarks and said that he should abandon Armenia to no one. It belonged to the Romans
and should have a Roman governor. He would, however, allow Parthomasiris to depart to any place
he pleased. So he sent the prince away together with his Parthian companions and gave them
an escort of cavalry to ensure their meeting no one and adopting no rebellious tactics. All
the Armenians who had come with him he commanded to remain where they were, on the ground that
they were already his subjects.

[Sidenote:--21--] [Leaving garrisons at opportune points Trajan came to Edessa, and there for
the first time he set eyes upon Abgarus. Previously this person had sent envoys and gifts to
the prince frequently, but he himself for different reasons at different times failed to put
in an appearance. The same was true also of Mannus, the phylarch of adjoining Arabia, and Sporaces,
phylarch of Anthemusia. On this occasion, however, he was persuaded partly by his son Arvandes,
who was beautiful and in the prime of youth and therefore on good terms with Trajan, and partly
by the fear of the latter's presence near by; consequently he met him on the road, made his
apologies, and obtained pardon. He had a powerful intercessor in the boy. Accordingly, he became
a friend of Trajan's and entertained him with a banquet. At the dinner in question he presented
his boy in some kind of barbaric dance.]

[Sidenote:--22--] [When Trajan came into Mesopotamia, Mannus sent a herald to him, and Manisarus
despatched envoys in regard to peace, because, he said, Osrhoes was making a campaign against
him, and he was ready to withdraw from Armenia and Mesopotamia so far as captured. Thereupon
the emperor replied that he would not believe him until he should come to him and confirm his
offers by deeds, as he was promising. He was also suspicious of Mannus, especially because
the latter had sent an auxiliary force to Mebarsapes, king of Adiabene, and then had lost it
all at the hands of the Romans. Therefore Mannus never waited for the Romans to draw near but
took his course to Adiabene to find shelter with the other two princes. Thus were Singara and
some other points occupied by Lusius, without a battle.]

When he had captured the whole country of Armenia and had won over also many of the kings,
some of whom, since they submitted, he treated as his friends, and others, though disobedient,
he subdued without resort to arms, [Sidenote:--23--] the senate voted to him many honors of
various descriptions, and they bestowed upon him the title of Optimus, i.e., Excellent.--He
was always accustomed to trudge on foot with his entire army and he had the ordering and arrangement
of the troops throughout the entire expedition, leading them sometimes in one order and sometimes
in another; and he forded as many rivers as they did. Sometimes he even had his scouts circulate
false reports, in order that the soldiers might at the same time practice military manoeuvres
and be so impervious to alarm as to be ready for anything. After he had captured Nisibis and
Batnae he was given the title of Parthicus. But he took greater pride in the name of Optimus
than in all the rest, inasmuch as it belonged rather to his character than to his arms.

[Sidenote: A.D. 115 (a.u. 868)] [Sidenote:--24--] While he was staying in Antioch, a dreadful
earthquake occurred. Many cities were damaged, but Antioch was most of all unfortunate. Since
Trajan was wintering there and many soldiers and many private persons had flocked thither from
all directions for lawsuits, embassies, business, or sightseeing, there was no nation nor people
that went unscathed. Thus in Antioch the whole world under Roman sway suffered disaster.

There were many thunderstorms to start with and portentous winds, but no one could have expected
that so many evils would result from them. First came, on a sudden, a great bellowing roar,
and there followed it a tremendous shock. The whole earth was up-heaved and buildings leaped
into the air. Those that were lifted up collapsed and were smashed to pieces, [Sidenote: A.D.
115 (a.u. 868)] while others were beaten this way and that as if by the surges and were turned
about. The wrecks were strewn a long distance over the countryside. The crash of grinding and
breaking timbers, tiles, and stones together became most frightful, and an inconceivable mass
of dust arose, so that no one could see any person nor say or hear anything. Many persons were
hurt even outside the houses, being picked up and tossed violently about, and then with a momentum
as in a fall from a cliff dashed to the earth. Some were maimed, others killed. Not a few trees
leaped into the air, roots and all.

The number of those found in the houses who perished was beyond discovery. Multitudes were
destroyed by the very force of the collapse and crowds were suffocated in the debris. Those
who lay with a part of their bodies buried under the stones or timbers suffered fearful agony,
being able neither to live nor to find an immediate death.

[Sidenote:--25--] Nevertheless many even of these were saved, as was natural in such overwhelming
numbers of people. And those outside did not all get off safe and sound. Numbers lost their
legs or their shoulders and some [Lacuna] their [Lacuna] heads. Others vomited blood. One of
these was Pedo the consul, and he died at once. In brief, there was no form of violent experience
that those people did not undergo at that time. And as Heaven continued the earthquake for
several days and nights, the people were dismayed and helpless, some crushed and perishing
under the weight of the buildings pressing upon them, and others dying of hunger in case it
chanced that by the inclination of the timbers they were left alive in a clear space, it might
be in a kind of arch-shaped colonnade. When at last the trouble had subsided, some one who
ventured to mount the ruins caught sight of a live woman. She was not alone but had also an
infant, and had endured by feeding both herself and her child with her milk. They dug her out
and resuscitated her together with her offspring, and after that they searched the other heaps
but were no longer able to find in them any living creature save a child sucking at the breasts
of its mother, who was dead. As they drew out the corpses they no longer felt any pleasure
at their own escape.

So great were the disasters that had overwhelmed Antioch at this time. Trajan made his way
out through a window of the room where he was. Some being of more than human stature had approached
him and led him forth, so that he survived with only a few small bruises. As the shocks extended
over a number of days, he lived out of doors in the hippodrome. Casium itself, too, was so
shaken that its peaks seemed to bend and break and to be falling upon the city. Other hills
settled, and quantities of water not previously in existence came to light, while quantities
more escaped by flowing away.

[Sidenote:--26--] Trajan about spring time proceeded into the enemy's country. Now since the
region near the Tigris is barren of timbers fit for shipbuilding, he brought the boats which
had been constructed in the forests surrounding Nisibis on wagons to the river. The vessels
had been arranged in such a way that they could be taken apart and put together. He had very
hard work in bridging the stream opposite Mount Carduenum, for the opposing barbarians tried
to hinder him. Trajan, however, had a great abundance of both ships and soldiers, and so some
boats were fastened together with great speed while others lay motionless in front of them,
carrying heavy infantry and archers. Still others kept making dashes this way and that, as
if they intended to cross. As a result of these tactics and from their very astonishment at
seeing so many ships at once appear en masse from a land devoid of trees the barbarians gave
way and the Romans crossed over. They won possession of the whole of Adiabene. (This is a portion
of Assyria in the vicinity of Ninus; and Arbela and Gaugamela, close to which Alexander conquered
Darius, are also in this same territory. The country has also been called Atyria in the language
of the barbarians, the double S being changed to T).

[Adenystrae was a strong post to which one Sentius, a centurion, had been sent as an envoy
to Mebarsapes. He was imprisoned by the latter in that place, and later, at the approach of
the Romans, he made an arrangement with some of his fellow-prisoners, and with their aid escaped
from his shackles, killed the commander of the garrison, and opened the gates to his countrymen.]
[Sidenote:--26--] Hereupon they advanced as far as Babylon itself, being quite free from molestation,
since the Parthian power had been ruined by civil conflicts and was still at this time involved
in dissensions.

[Sidenote:--27--] Cassius Dio Cocceianus in writings concerning the Latins has written that
this city [i.e. Babylon] comprised a circuit of four hundred stades. (Compare also Tzetzes,
Exegesis of Homer's Iliad, p. 141, 15 ff).

Here, moreover, Trajan saw the asphalt out of which the walls of Babylon had been built. When
mixed with baked bricks or smooth stones this material affords so great strength as to render
them stronger than rock or any kind of iron. He also looked at the opening from which issues
a deadly vapor that destroys any creature living upon the earth and any winged thing that so
much as inhales a breath of it. If it extended far above ground or had several vents, the place
would not be inhabitable; but, as it is, this gas circles round within itself and remains stationary.
Hence creatures that fly high enough above it and such as remain to one side are safe. I saw
another opening like it at Hierapolis in Asia, and tested it by means of birds; I bent over
it myself and myself gazed down upon the vapor. It is enclosed in a sort of a cistern and a
theatre had been built over it. It destroys all living things save human beings that have been
emasculated. The reason for that I can not comprehend. I relate what I have seen as I have
seen it and what I have heard as I have heard it.

[Sidenote: A.D. 116 (a.u. 869)] Trajan had planned to conduct the Euphrates through a channel
into the Tigris, in order that boats might be floated down by this route, affording him an
opportunity to make a bridge. But on learning that it had a much higher elevation than the
Tigris, he did not do it, fearing that the water might rush pell-mell down hill and render
the Euphrates unnavigable. So he conveyed the boats across by means of hauling engines at the
point where the space between the rivers is the least--the whole stream of the Euphrates empties
into a swamp and from there somehow joins the Tigris--then crossed the Tigris and entered Ctesiphon.
Having taken possession of this town he was saluted as imperator and established his right
to the title of Parthicus. Various honors were voted him by the senate, among others the privilege
of celebrating as many triumphs as he might desire.

After his capture of Ctesiphon he felt a wish to sail down into the Red Sea. This is a part
of the ocean and has been so named [Footnote: [Greek: erythra] from Erythras, who was said
to have been drowned in it (as if in English we should invent a King Redd).] from some person
formerly ruler there. Mesene, the island in the Tigris of which Athambelus was king, he acquired
without difficulty. [And it remained loyal to Trajan, although ordered to pay tribute.] But
through a storm, and the violence of the Tigris, and the backward flow from the ocean, he fell
into danger. The inhabitants of the so-called palisade of Spasinus [they were subject to the
dominion of Athambelus] received him kindly.

[Sidenote:--29--] Thence he came to the ocean itself, and when he had learned its nature and
seen a boat sailing to India, he said: "I should certainly have crossed over to the Indi, if
I were still young." He gave much thought to the Indi, and was curious about their affairs.
Alexander he counted a happy man and at the same time declared that he himself had advanced
farther. This was the tenor of the despatch that he forwarded to the senate, although he was
unable to preserve even what territory had been subdued. On its receipt he obtained among other
honors the privilege of celebrating a triumph for as many nations as he pleased. For, on account
of the number of those peoples regarding which communications in writing were being constantly
forwarded to them, they were unable to understand them or even to name some of them correctly.
So the citizens of the capital prepared a trophy-bearing arch, besides many other decorations
in his own forum, and were getting themselves in readiness to meet him some distance out when
he should return. But he was destined never to reach Rome again nor to accomplish anything
deserving comparison with his previous exploits, and furthermore to lose even those earlier
acquisitions. For, during the time that he was sailing down the ocean and returning from there
again, all his conquests were thrown into tumult and revolted. And the garrisons placed among
the various peoples were in some cases driven out and in others killed.

[Sidenote:--30--] Trajan ascertained this in Babylon. [Footnote: The Tauchnitz reading, [Greek:
en ploio] will not fit the context. Just below [Greek: ithous] (Bekker) has to be read for
[Greek: mythous].] He had taken the side-trip there on the basis of reports, unmerited by aught
that he saw (which were merely mounds and stones and ruins), and for the sake of Alexander,
to whose spirit he offered sacrifice in the room where he had died. When, therefore, he ascertained
it, he sent Lusius and Maximus against the rebels. The latter perished after a defeat in the
field; but Lusius was generally successful, recovering Nisibis, besieging Edessa, plundering
and burning. Seleucia was also captured by Erucius Clarus and Julius Alexander, lieutenants,
and was burned. Trajan, in fear that the Parthians, too, might begin some revolt, decided to
give them a king of their own. And when he came to Ctesiphon he called together in a great
plain all the Romans and likewise all the Parthians that were there at the time. He mounted
a lofty platform, and, after describing in lofty language what he had accomplished, he appointed
Parthamaspates king of the Parthians and set the diadem upon his head.

[Sidenote: LXXV, 9, 6] When Volgaesus, the son of Sanatruces, confronted in battle array the
followers of Severus and before coming to an actual test of strength asked and secured an armistice,
Trajan sent envoys to him and granted him a portion of Armenia in return for peace.

[Sidenote:--31--] Next he came into Arabia and commenced operations against the people of Hatra,
since they, too, had revolted. This city is neither large nor prosperous. The surrounding country
is mostly desert and holds no water (save a small amount, poor in quality), nor timber, nor
herb. It is protected by these very features, which make a siege in any form impossible, and
by the Sun, to whom it is, in a way, consecrated. It was neither at this time taken by Trajan
nor later by Severus, although they knocked down some parts of its wall. Trajan sent the cavalry
ahead against the wall but failed in his attempt, and the attacking force was hurled back into
the camp. As he was riding by, he barely missed being wounded himself, in spite of the fact
that he had laid aside his imperial attire to avoid being recognized. Seeing the majestic gray
head and his august countenance they suspected him to be the man he was, shot at him, and killed
a cavalryman in his escort. There were peals of thunder and rainbow tints glimmered indistinctly.
Flashes of lightning and spray-like storms, hail and thunderbolts fell upon the Romans as often
as they made assaults. And whenever they ate a meal, flies settled on the food and drink causing
universal discomfort. Thus Trajan left the place and not long after began to fail in health.

[Sidenote:--32--] Meanwhile the Jews in the region of Cyrene had put one Andreas at their head
and were destroying both the Romans and the Greeks. They would cook their flesh, make belts
for themselves of their entrails, anoint themselves with their blood, and wear their skins
for clothing. Many they sawed in two, from the head downwards. Others they would give to wild
beasts and force still others to fight as gladiators. In all, consequently, two hundred and
twenty thousand perished. In Egypt, also, they performed many similar deeds, and in Cyprus
under the leadership of Artemio. There, likewise, two hundred and forty thousand perished.
For this reason no Jew may set foot in that land, but even if one of them is driven upon the
island by force of the wind, he is put to death. Various persons took part in subduing these
Jews, one being Lusius, who was sent by Trajan.

[Lusius Quietus was a Moor, himself a leader of the
Moors, and had belonged to [Footnote: Some puzzling corruption in the MS.]
a troop in the cavalry. Condemned for base conduct he was temporarily
relieved of his command and dishonored. [Footnote: Probably in the days of
Domitian.] But later, when the Dacian war came on and the army stood in
need of the Moorish alliance, he came to it of his own accord and gave
great exhibitions of prowess. For this he was honored, and in the second
war performed far greater and more numerous exploits. Finally, he advanced
so far in bravery and good fortune during this war which we are
considering that he was enrolled among the ex-praetors, became consul, and
governed Palestine. To this chiefly was due the jealousy and hatred felt
for him, and his destruction.] Now when Trajan had invaded the hostile
territory, the satraps and kings of that region approached him with gifts.
 One of these gifts was a horse taught to do obeisance. It would kneel
with its front legs and place its head beneath the feet of whoever stood
near.

[Sidenote: A.D. 117 (a.u. 870)] [Sidenote:--33--] Now Trajan was preparing to make a new expedition
into Mesopotamia. Finding himself, however, held fast by the clutches of the disease, he started
to sail to Italy himself and left behind Publius Aelius Hadrian with the army in Syria. So
the Romans, who had conquered Armenia, most of Mesopotamia, and the Parthians, had labored
in vain and had vainly undergone danger. The Parthians disdained Parthamaspates and began to
have kings according to their original custom. Trajan suspected that his falling sick was due
to the administration of poison. Some declare it was because his blood, which annually descended
into the lower part of his body, was kept from flowing. He had also become paralyzed, so that
part of his body was disabled, and his general diathesis was dropsical. And on coming to Selinus
in Cilicia, which we also call Traianoupolis, he suddenly expired after a reign of nineteen
years, six months, and fifteen days.

DIO'S ROMAN HISTORY 69

Hadrian without being adopted succeeds, through the favor of Plotina (chapters 1, 2).

About the assassinations authorized by Hadrian: about his varied learning and jealousies (chapters
3, 4).

His virtues, particularly affability and generosity: old arrears of debt forgiven (chapters 5, 8).

Travels: discipline of the army reformed: interest in hunting (chapters 9, 10).

How he honored Antinous with various marks of remembrance (chapter 11).

Uprising of Jews on account of the founding of Capitolina: Bithynia recovered (chapters 12-14).

The Albanians are held in check: Pharasmanes the Iberian is honored (chapter 15).

The Temple of Jupiter Olympius and the Panellenium are consecrated (chapter 16).

Growing ill, he adopts Commodus, slays Servianus: the distinguished services of Turbo, Fronto,
Similis (chapters 17-19).

On the death of Commodus he adopts Antoninus, the latter adopting at the same time Marcus and
Verus (chapters 20, 21).

How Hadrian departed this life (chapters 22, 23).

DURATION OF TIME.

Quinctius Niger, Vipsanius Apronianus. (A.D. 117 = a.u. 870 = First of Hadrian, from Aug. 11th).

Hadrianus Aug. (II), Claudius Fuseus Salinator. (A.D. 118 = a.u. 871 = Second of Hadrian).

Hadrianus Aug. (III), Q. Iunius Rusticus. (A.D. 119 = a.u. 872 = Third of Hadrian).

L. Catilius Severus, T. Aurelius Fulvus. (A.D. 120 = a.u. 873 = Fourth of Hadrian).

L. Annius Verus, Aur. Augurinus. (A.D. 121 = a.u. 874 = Fifth of Hadrian).

Acilius Aviola, Corellius Pansa. (A.D. 122 = a.u. 875 = Sixth of Hadrian). Q. Arrius Paetinus,
C. Ventidius Apronianus. (A.D. 123 = a.u. 876 = Seventh of Hadrian).

Manius Acilius Glabrio, C. Bellicius Torquatus. (A.D. 124 = a.u. 877 = Eighth of Hadrian).

P. Corn. Scipio Asiaticus (II), Q. Vettius Aquilinus. (A.D. 125 = a.u. 878 = Ninth of Hadrian).

Annius Verus (III), L. Varius Ambibulus. (A.D. 126 = a.u. 879 = Tenth of Hadrian).

Gallicianus, Caelius Titianus. (A.D. 127 = a.u. 880 = Eleventh of Hadrian).

L. Nonius Asprenas Torquatus (II), M. Annius Libo. (A.D. 128 = a.u. 881 = Twelfth of Hadrian).

Iuventius Celsus (II), Marcellus. (A.D. 129 = a.u. 882 = Thirteenth of Hadrian).

Q. Fabius Catullinus, M. Flavius Aper. (A.D. 130 = a.u. 883 = Fourteenth of Hadrian).

Ser. Octav. Laenas Pontianus, M. Antonius Rufinus. (A.D. 131 = a.u. 884 = Fifteenth of Hadrian).

Augurinus, Severianus (or, according to others, Sergianus). (A.D. 132 = a.u. 885 = Sixteenth
of Hadrian).

Hiberus, Iunius Silanus Sisenna. (A.D. 133 = a.u. 886 = Seventeenth of Hadrian).

Servianus (III), Vibius Varus. (A.D. 134 = a.u. 887 = Eighteenth of Hadrian).

Pontianus, Atilianus. (A.D. 135 = a.u. 888 = Nineteenth of Hadrian).

L. Ceionius Commodus Verus, Sex. Vetulenus Civica Pompeianus. (A.D. 136 = a.u. 889 = Twentieth
of Hadrian).

L. Aelius Verus Caesar, P. Caelius Balbinus Vibullius. (A.D. 137 = a.u. 890 = Twenty-first
of Hadrian).

Camerinus, Niger. (A.D. 138 = a.u. 891 = Twenty-second of Hadrian, to July 10th).

[Sidenote: A.D. 117 (a.u. 870)] [Sidenote:--1--] Hadrian had not been adopted by Trajan. He
was merely a fellow-citizen of the latter, had enjoyed Trajan's services as guardian, was of
near kin to him, and had married his niece. I thinly I remember some years ago reading in a newspaper
of rioters armed with "pea makes." I do not remember any other instance
of its use in English.

F. Q.***** MISTAKES IN GIBBON.

The
following references may be of use to a future editor of Gibbon;
Mr. Milman has not, I believe, rectified any of the mistakes pointed
out by the authors cited.

In the Netherlands... 50,000 in less than fifty years were... sacrificed
to the intolerance of popery.

(Fra Paolo, Sarpi Conc. Trid. 1. i. p. 422. ed. sec. Grotius, in his Annal. Belq. 1. v. pp. 1G, 17.
duod., including all the persecutions of Charles V, makes the number
100,000.

The supposed contradiction between these two historians supplied Mr. Gibbon with an argument by
which he satisfied himself that be had completely demolished the whole
credibility of Eusebius's history.

See conclusion of his 16th book.) [Mendham's Life of Pius V., p. 303. and note; compare p. 252., where
Gibbon's attack on Eusebius is discussed.] In Forster's Mahometanism Unveiled, several of Gibbon's statements
are questioned. I have not the book at hand, and did not think the corrections very important
when I read it some time{ 277} back. The reader who has it may see pp. 339. 385. 461-2. 472. 483.
498. of the second volume.

In Dr. Maitland's Dark Ages, p. 229. seq. note, a gross blunder is
pointed out.

See too the Gentlemans Magazine, July, 1839, p. 49. Dr. Maitland, in his Facts and Documents
relating to the ancient Albigenses and Waldenses, p. 217. note, corrects
an error respecting the Book of Sentences.

"Gibbon, speaking of this Book of Sentences, in a note on his 54th
chapter, says,'Of a list of criminals which fills nineteen folio pages,
only fifteen men and four women were delivered to the secular arm.'Vol.
v. p. 535.

I believe he should have said thirty-two men and eight women; and
imagine that he was misled by the fact that the index-maker most commonly
(but by no means always) states the nature of the sentence passed
on each person.

From the book, however, it appears that forty persons were so delivered,
viz., twenty-nine Albigenses, seven Waldenses, and four Beguins."

The following mistake was pointed out by the learned Cork correspondent of the Gentleman's Magazine,
I think in 1838; it has misled the writer of the article "Anicius",
in Smith's Dictionary of Ancient Biography, and is not corrected by
Mr. Milman (Gibbon, chap. xxxi. note 14 and text):-- "During the first
five ages, the name of the Anicians was unknown.

The earliest date in the annals of Pighius is that of M. Anicius Gallus, Tr. Plebis A. U. C.
506. Another Tribune, Q. Anicius, A. U. C. 508, is distinguished by the epithet Prænestinus."
We learn from Pliny, H. N. xxxiii.

6., that Q. Anicius Prænestinus was the colleague as curule ædile
of Flavius, the famous scriba of Appius Cæcus, B. C. 304, A. U. C. 450. (See
Fischer, Röm. Zeittafeln, p. 61-2.) Pliny's words are-- "[Flavius]
tantam gratiam plebis adeptus est... ut ædilis curulis crearetur
cum Q. Anicio Prænestino."

Gibbon's chapter on Mahomet seems to be particularly superficial; it is to be hoped that a future editor
will correct it by the aid of Von Hammer's labours.

J. E. B. MAYOR. Marlborough College.***** MINOR NOTES "Ockley's History of the Saracens,"
and unauthentic Works.-- At the end of a late edition of Washington Irving's Life of Mahomet, those
"who feel inclined to peruse further details of the life of Mahomet,
or to pursue the course of Saracenic history," are referred to Ockley.

Students
should be aware of the character of the histories they peruse. And it appears, from a note
in Hallam's Middle Ages (vol. ii. p. 168.), that Wakidi, from whom Ockley translated his work, was
a "mere fabulist," as Reiske observes, in his preface to Abulfeda.

Query, Would it not be well, if some of your more learned correspondents would communicate to students,
through the medium of "NOTES AND QUERIES," a list of such books as are genuine but not authentic; and
authentic but not genuine, or altogether spurious? or would point
out the sources from which such information can be obtained?

P. H. F. The Hippopotamus.-- Your correspondent L. (Vol. ii., p.
35.) says, "None of the Greek writers appear to have seen a live hippopotamus:"
and again, "The hippopotamus, being an inhabitant of the Upper Nile,
was imperfectly known to the ancients."

Herodotus
says (ii. 71.) that this animal was held sacred by the Nomos of Papremis, but not by the other
Egyptians. The city of Papremis is fixed by Bähr in the west of the
Delta (ad ii.

63.); and Mannert conjectured it to be the same as the later Xoïs,
lying between the Sebennytic and Canopic branches, but nearer to the
former.

Sir Gardner Wilkinson says, several representations of the hippopotamus
were found at Thebes, one of which he gives (Egyptians, vol. iii.
pl. xv.).

Herodotus'way of speaking would seem to show that he was describing
from his own observation: he used Hecatæus, no doubt, but did not
blindly copy him.

Hence, I think, we may infer that Herodotus himself saw the hippopotamus,
and that this animal was found, in his day, even as far north as the
Delta: and also, that the species is gradually dying out, as the aurochs
is nearly gone, and the dodo quite.

The crocodile is no longer found in the Delta. E. S. JACKSON America.-- The probability of a short western
passage to India is mentioned in Aristotle de Coelo, ii., near the end. F. Q. Pascal's Lettres Provinciales.--
I take the liberty of forwarding to you the following "Note," suggested by two curious blunders
which fell under my notice some time ago. In Mr. Stamp's reprint of the Rev. C. Elliott's Delineation
of Romanism (London, 8vo. 1844), I find (p. 471., in note) a long paragraph on Pascal's Lettres
Provinciales:-- "This exquisite production," says the English editor,
"is accompanied, in some editions of it, with the learned and judicious
observations of Nicole, who, under the fictitious name of Guillaume
Wendrock, has fully demonstrated the truths of those facts which Pascal
had advanced without quoting his authorities; and has placed, in a
full and striking light, several interesting circumstances which that
great man had treated with perhaps too much brevity.

These letters... were translated into Latin by Ruchelius." From Mr. Stamp's remarks the reader
is led to conclude that the text of the Lettres Provinciales{ 278} is accompanied in some editions
by observations of Wendrock (Nicole), likewise in the French language. Now such an assertion merely
proves how carelessly some annotators will study the subjects they
attempt to elucidate.

Nicole translated into Latin the Provincial Letters; and the masterly
disquisitions which he added to the volume were, in their turn, "made
French" by Mademoiselle de Joncoux, and annexed to the editions of
1700, 1712, 1735.

As for Rachelius, if Mr. Stamp had taken the trouble to refer to
Placcius'Theatr. Anonym. et Pseud., he night have seen (Art. 2,883.)
that this worthy was merely a German editor, not a translator of Pascal
cum Wendrock.

The second blunder I have to notice has been perpetrated by the writer of an otherwise excellent
article on Pascal in the last number of the British Quarterly Review (No. 20. August). He
mentions Bossuet's edition of the Pensées, speaks of "the prelate," and evidently ascribes to the famous
Bishop of Meaux, who died in 1704, the edition of Pascal's Thoughts, published in 1779 by Bossuet.
(See pp. 140. 142.) GUSTAVE MASSON. Porson's Epigram.-- I made the following Note many years ago:--
"The late Professor Porson's own account of his academic visits to the Continent:--"'I went to
Frankfort, and got drunk With that most learn'd professor-- Brunck: I went to Worts, and got more drunken,
With that more learn'd professor Ruhncken.'"But I do not remember where or from whom I got
it. Is anything known about it, or its authenticity? P. H. F.***** QUERIES." ORKNEYINGA SAGA. "In
the introduction to Lord Ellesmere's Guide to Northern Archæology,
p. xi., is mentioned the intended publication by the Royal Society
of Northern Antiquaries, Copenhagen, of a volume of historical antiquities
to be called Antiquitates Britannicæ et Hibernicæ.

In the contents of this volume is noticed the Orkneyinga Saga, a
history of the Orkney and Zetland Isles from A. D. 865 to 1234, of
which there is only the edition Copenhagen, 1780," chiefly printed,
"it is said," from a modern paper manuscript, and by no means from
the celebrated Codex Flateyensis written on parchment in the fourteenth
century.

"This would show that the Codex Flateyensis was the most valuable manuscript of the work published
under the name of the Orkneyinga Saga, of which its editor, Jonas
Jonæus, in his introductory address to the reader, says its author
and age are equally unknown:" auctor incertus incerto æque tempore
scripsit.

"The Orkneyinga Saga concludes with the burning of Adam Bishop, of
Caithness, by the mob at Thurso while John was Earl of Orkney, and
according to Dalrymple's Annals in A. D. 1222; but in the narrative
given by the historian Torfæus, in his Orcades, of Haco, King of Norway's
expedition against the western coast of Scotland in 1263, which terminated
in the defeat of the invaders by the Scots at Largs, in Ayrshire,
and the death of King Haco on his return back in the palace of the
bishop of Orkney at Kirkwall, reference is made to the Codex Flateyensis
as to the burial of King Haco in the city of Bergen, in Norway, where
his remains were finally deposited, after lying some months before
the shrine of the patron saint in the cathedral of Saint Magnus, at
Kirkwall.

There is not a syllable of King Haco or his expedition in the Orkneyinga Saga; and as I cannot
reconcile this reference of Torfæus (2nd edition, 1715, book ii.
p. 170.) with the Saga, the favour of information is desired from
some of your antiquarian correspondents.

The Codex Flateyensis has been ascribed to a pensioner of the king of Norway resident in Flottay,
one of the southern isles of Orkney, but with more probability can
be attributed to some of the monks of the monastery built on the small
island of Flatey, lying in Breida Fiord, a gulf on the west coast
of Iceland.

W. H.
F.***** MINOR QUERIES. Incumbents of Church Livings in Kent.-- I have
by me the following MS. note:--" A list of B. A.'s graduated at Cambridge
from 1500 to 1735 may be found in'Additional MSS. British Museum,
No. 5,585.'"Will any of your correspondents inform me if this reference
is correct, and if the list can be examined? Is there in the British Museum
or elsewhere a list of incumbents of church livings in Kent (with
name and birthplace) from 1600 to 1660?

BRANBRIDGES. York Buildings Company.-- This company existed about
the middle of the last century.

I shall be glad to be informed where the papers connected with it are to be met with, and may be
referred to. WDN. Saying ascribed to Montaigne.-- The saying," I have here only made a nosegay
of culled flowers, and have brought nothing of my own but the thread that ties them, "is usually
ascribed to Montaigne. In what part of his works are these words to be found? I heard doubts expressed
of their genuineness some years ago by a reader of the Essays; and my own search for them
has also proved hitherto unsuccessful. C. FORBES.{ 279}" Modum promissionis.

"-- Will any of your readers help to interpret the following expression in a mediæval author:--"
(Ut vulgò loquitur) modum promissionis ostendit? "I have reason to think that modum promissionis means"
a provisional arrangement: "but by whom, and in what common parlance,
was this expression used?

C. W. B. Roman Catholic Theology.-- Is there any work containing a list of Roman Catholic theological
works published in the English language from the year 1558 to 1700? M. Y. A. H. Wife of Edward the
Outlaw.-- Can any of your correspondents inform me who was the wife of Edward the Outlaw, and consequently
mother of Margaret of Scotland, and ancestress of the kings of England? The account adopted by most
historians is that Canute, in 1017, sent the two sons of Edmund Ironside
to the king of Denmark, whence they were transferred to Solomon, king
of Hungary, who gave his sister to the eldest; and, on his death without
issue, married the second Edward to Agatha, daughter of the Emperor
Henry II.

(or, in some accounts, Henry III., or even, in Grafton's Chronicles,
called Henry IV.), and sister to his own queen.

That Edward the Outlaw returned to England in 1057, having had five
children, of whom three survived: Edgar; Margaret, who in 1067 married
King Malcolm of Scotland, and another daughter.

Now this account is manifestly incorrect.

The Emperor Henry II. died childless: when on his death-bed he restored his wife to her parents,
declaring that both he and she had kept their vows of chastity.

Solomon did not ascend the throne of Hungary until 1063, in which
year he had also married Sophia, daughter of the Emperor Henry III.;
but this monarch (who was born in October, 1017, married his first
wife in 1036, who died, leaving one child, in 1038 and his second
wife in November 1043) could not be the grandfather of the five children
of Edward the Outlaw, born prior to 1057.

The Saxon Chronicle says, that Edward married Agatha the emperor's
cousin.

E.
H. Y. Conde's" Arabs in Spain ".-- In Professor de Vericour's Historical
Analysis of Christian Civilisation, just published, it is stated (p.
499.) that Conde's Arabs in Spain has been translated into English.

I have never met with a translation, and fancy that the Professor
has made a mistake.

Can any of your correspondents decide?

I know that a year or two ago, Messrs. Whittaker announced that a translation would form part of their
Popular Library; but for some reason (probably insufficient support) it never appeared. Query,
Might not Mr. Bohn with advantage include this work in his Standard Library? IOTA.***** REPLIES.
CAVE'S HISTORIA LITERARIA. I do not know whether the notices respecting Cave's Historia Literaria
(Vol. ii., pp. 230. 255.) hold out any prospect of a new edition. It is much to be desired; and as
it may be done at some time or other, you will perhaps allow me to make a Note of a circumstance
which accidentally came to my knowledge, and should be known to any future editor. It is simply
this: in the second volume of the Oxford edition of 1740, after the three dissertations,& c.,
there are fifteen pages, with a fresh pagination of their own, entitled," Notæ MSS. et Accessiones
Anonymi ad Cavei Historiam Literariam, Codicis Margini adscriptæ, in Bibliotheca Lambethana.
Manus est plane Reverendiss. Thomæ Tenison, Cantuariensis Archiepiscopi. "Not to occupy more
of your valuable space than is necessary, I will merely observe that the" Anonymus "was not Archbishop
Tenison, but Henry Wharton. There can be no doubt in the mind of any person acquainted with
the handwriting of the parties; and to those to whom such a notice is likely to be of any use at all,
it is unnecessary to say that the difference is important. I need scarcely add, that if ever a new edition
is undertaken, Wharton's books and papers, and other things in the Lambeth collection of MSS., should
be examined. S. R. MAITLAND. Cave's Historia Literaria (Vol ii., p. 230.).-- 1. London, 1688-1698,
2 vols. folio. This was the first edition. A curious letter from Cave to Abp. Tenison respecting
the assistance which H. Wharton furnished to this work is printed in
Chalmers'Biog. Dict., vol. xxxi. p. 343. 2. Geneva, 1693, folio. 3.------,
1694, folio. 4.------, 1705, folio. 5. Coloniæ Allobrogum, 1720,
folio. For Hadrian,
as I have stated, was in general a great dabbler in superstitions and employed divinations
and incantations of all kinds. Accordingly, he honored Antinous either because of his love
for him or because he had voluntarily submitted to death (it being necessary that a life be
surrendered voluntarily for the accomplishment of the ends he had in view), by building a city
on the spot where he had suffered this fate and naming it after him: and he further set up
likenesses, or rather sacred statues of him, practically all over the world. Finally, he declared
that he had seen a star which he assumed to belong to Antinous, and gladly lent an ear to the
fictitious tales woven by his associates to the effect that the star had really come into being
from the spirit of Antinous and had then appeared for the first time. [Sidenote: A.D. 133 (a.u.
886)] On this account he became the object of some ridicule [as also because the death of his
sister Paulina he had not immediately paid her any honor. [Lacuna]]

[Sidenote: A.D. 133 (a.u. 886)] [Sidenote:--12--] In Jerusalem he founded a city in place of
the one razed to the ground, naming it Aelia Capitolina, and on the site of the temple of the
god he raised a new temple to Jupiter. This brought on a war that was not slight nor of brief
duration, for the Jews deemed it intolerable that foreign races should be settled in their
city and foreign religious rites be planted there. While Hadrian was close by in Egypt and
again in Syria, they remained quiet, save in so far as they purposely made the weapons they
were called upon to furnish of poorer quality, to the end that the Romans might reject them
and they have the use of them. But when he went farther away, they openly revolted. To be sure,
they did not dare try conclusions with the Romans in the open field, but they occupied advantageous
positions in the country and strengthened them with mines and walls, in order that they might
have places of refuge whenever they should be hard pressed, and meet together unobserved under
ground; and in these subterranean passages they sunk shafts from above to let in air and light.
[Sidenote:--13--] At first the Romans made no account of them. Soon, however, all Judaea had
been up-heaved, and the Jews all over the world were showing signs of disturbance, were gathering
together, and giving evidence of great hostility to the Romans, partly by secret and partly
by open acts; many other outside nations, too, were joining them through eagerness for gain,
and the whole earth, almost, was becoming convulsed over the matter. Then, indeed, did Hadrian
send against them his best generals, of who Julius Severus was the first to be despatched,
from Britain, of which he was governor, against the Jews. He did not venture to attack his
opponents at any one point, seeing their numbers and their desperation, but by taking them
in separate groups by means of the number of his soldiers and his under-officers and by depriving
them of food and shutting them up he was able, rather slowly, to be sure, but with comparatively
little danger, to crush and exhaust and exterminate them. Very few of them survived. [Sidenote:--14--]
Fifty of their most important garrisons and nine hundred and eighty-five of their most renowned
towns were blotted out. Fifty-eight myriads of men were slaughtered in the course of the invasions
and battles, and the number of those that perished by famine and disease and fire was past
all investigating. Thus nearly the whole of Judaea was made desolate, an event of which the
people had had indications even before the war. The tomb of Solomon, which these men regarded
as one of their sacred objects, fell to pieces of itself and collapsed and many wolves and
hyenas rushed howling into their cities.

Many Romans, moreover, perished in the war. Wherefore Hadrian in writing to the senate did
not employ the opening phrase commonly affected by the emperors: "If you and your children
are in health, it shall be well: I and the armies are in health."

[Sidenote: A.D. 134(?)] Severus [Footnote: Not the same person as is mentioned in the previous
chapter.] he sent into Bithynia, which needed no force of arms but a governor and presiding
officer who was just and prudent and had a reputation. All these qualifications Severus possessed.
And he managed and administered both their private and their public affairs in such a way that
we [Footnote: i.e., "we natives of Bithynia" (Dio's country).] are still, even to-day wont
to remember him. [Pamphylia in place of Bithynia was given into the jurisdiction of the senate
and the lot.]

[Sidenote:--15--] This, then, was the ending that the war with the Jews took. A second war
was started among the Alani (they are Massagetae) by Pharasmanes. On Albanis and Media he inflicted
severe injury and then laid hold on Armenia and Cappadocia, after which, as the Alani were
on the one hand persuaded by gifts from Vologaesus and on the other stood in dread of Flavius
Arrianus, the governor of Cappadocia, he stopped. [Envoys were sent from Vologaesus and from
the Iazygae; the former made some charges against Pharasmanes and the latter wanted to confirm
the peace. [?] [Footnote: It is impossible to determine, from the date of this fragment, whether
the subject should be Hadrian or Antoninus Pius.] introduced them to the senate and was empowered
by that body to return appropriate answers; and accordingly he prepared and read to them his
responses.]

[Sidenote:--16--] Hadrian completed the Olympieum in Athens, in which his own statue also stands,
and consecrated there a serpent, which was brought from India. He also presided at the Dionysia,
the greatest office within the gift of the people, and arrayed in the local costume carried
it through brilliantly. He allowed the Greeks, too, to build his sepulchre (called the Panellenium),
and instituted a series of games to be connected with it; and he granted to the Athenians large
sums of money, annual corn distribution, and the whole of Cephallenia.--Among various laws
that he enacted was one to the effect that no senator, either personally or through the medium
of another, should have any tax farmed out to him. [Sidenote: A.D. 135 (a.u. 888)] After he
had come to Rome, the crowd at a spectacle shouted their request for the emancipation of a
certain charioteer: but he replied by means of a writing on a board: "It is not right for you
either to ask me to free another's slave or to force his master to do so."

[Sidenote:--17--] He now began to be sick, having suffered even before this from blood gushing
from his nostrils: this flow now grew very much more copious, so that he despaired of his life.
Consequently, he appointed as Caesar for the Romans Lucius Commodus, although this man frequently
vomited blood. [Sidenote: A.D. 136 (a.u. 889)] Servianus and his grandson Fuscus, the former
a nonagenarian and the latter eighteen years of age, were put to death on the ground that they
were displeased at this action. Servianus before being executed asked for fire, and as he offered
incense he exclaimed: "That I am guilty of no wrong, ye; O Gods, are well aware: and as for
Hadrian I pray only this, that he may desire to die and not be able." And, indeed, Hadrian
did come to his end only after often praying that he might expire and often feeling a desire
to kill himself. There is in existence also a letter of his which lays stress on this very
matter, showing what a dreadful thing it is for a man to desire to die and not be able. This
Servianus had been by Hadrian deemed capable of filling the imperial office. He had once at
a banquet told his friends to name for him ten men who were competent to be sole rulers, and
then after a moment's pause, had added: "I want to know nine: I have one already, Servianus."

[Sidenote:--18--] Other excellent men, also, had come to light during that period, of whom
the most distinguished were Turbo and Similis, who, indeed, were honored with statues.

Turbo was a man of great qualities as a general, who had become prefect (or commander of the
Pretorians). He committed no act of luxury or haughtiness, but lived like one of the multitude:
the entire day he spent in proximity to the palace and often he would go there even shortly
before midnight, when some of the others were beginning to sleep. A characteristic anecdote
is that which brings in the name of Cornelius Fronto, at this time reputed to be the foremost
Roman advocate in lawsuits. One evening very late he was returning home from dinner and ascertained
from a man whose counsel he had promised to be that Turbo was holding court. Accordingly, just
as he was, in his dress for dinner, he went into his courtroom and greeted him not with the
morning salutation, I wish you joy, but with that belonging to the evening, I trust your health
continues good.

Turbo was never seen at home in the daytime even when he was sick; and to Hadrian, who advised
him to remain quiet, he replied: "The prefect ought to die on his feet."

[Sidenote:--19--] Similis, who was of greater age and more advanced rank, in character was
second to none of the great men, I think. Very slight things may serve us as evidence. When
he was centurion, Trajan had summoned him to enter his presence before the prefects, whereupon
he said: "It is a shame for you, Caesar, to be talking with a centurion, while the prefects
stand outside." And he took unwillingly at that time the command of the Pretorians, and after
taking it resigned it. Having with difficulty secured his release he spent the rest of his
life, seven years, quietly in the country, and upon his tomb he had this inscription placed:
"Similis lies here, who existed so-and-so many years, but lived for seven."

Julius (?) Fabius (?), not being able to endure his son's effeminacy, desired to throw himself
into the river.

[Sidenote: A.D. 138 (a.u. 891)] [Sidenote:--20--] Hadrian became consumptive as a result of
the great loss of blood, and that led to dropsy. And as it happened that Lucius Commodus was
suddenly removed from the scene by the outgushing of a large quantity of blood all at once,
he convened at his house the foremost and most renowned of the senators; and lying on a couch
he spoke to them as follows: "I, my friends, was not permitted by nature to secure offspring,
but you have made it possible by legal enactment. There is this difference between the two
ways,--that a begotten son turns out to be whatever sort of person Heaven pleases, whereas
one that is adopted a man takes to himself because he chooses just that sort of being. Thus
in process of nature a maimed and [Sidenote: A.D. 138 (a.u. 891)] senseless creature is often
given to a parent, but by process of voluntary decision one of sound body and sound mind is
certain to be selected. For this cause I formerly chose out Lucius from among all, a person
of such attainments as I could never have prayed to find in a child. But since the Heavenly
Power has taken him from among us, I have found an emperor in his place whom I now give you,
one who is noble, mild, tractable, prudent, neither young enough to do anything reckless nor
old enough to neglect aught,--one brought up according to the laws, who has held possession
of authority according to his country's traditions, so that he is not ignorant of any matters
pertaining to his office, but can handle them all effectively. I refer to Aurelius Antoninus
here. Although I know him to be the most retiring of men and to be far from desiring any such
thing, still I do not think that he will deliberately disregard either me or you but will accept
the office even against his will."

[Sidenote:--21--] So it was that Antoninus became emperor. Since he was destitute of male children,
Hadrian adopted for him Commodus's son Commodus and, moreover, besides the latter, Marcus Annius
Verus; for he wished to appoint those who were afterwards to be emperors for as long a time
ahead as possible. (This Marcus Annius, earlier named Catilius, was a grandson of Annius Verus
who had thrice been consul and prefect of the city). And though Hadrian urged Antoninus to
adopt them both, he preferred Verus on account of his kinship and his age and because he already
exhibited an extremely strong cast of mind. This led him to apply to the young man the name
Verissimus, with a play upon the meaning of the Latin word.

[Sidenote:--22--] By certain charms and species of magic Hadrian was relieved of the water,
but shortly was full of it again. Since, therefore, he was constantly growing worse and might
be said to be slowly perishing day by day, he began to long for death. Often he would ask for
poison and a sword, but no one would give them to him. As no one would obey him, although he
promised money and immunity, he sent for Mastor, an Iazygian barbarian that had become a captive,
whom he had employed in hunts on account of his strength and daring. Then, partly by threatening
him and partly by making promises, he compelled the man to undertake the duty of killing him.
He drew a colored line around a spot beneath the nipple that had been shown him by Hermogenes
the physician, in order that he might there be struck a finishing blow and perish painlessly.
But even this plan did not succeed, for Mastor became afraid of the project and in terror withdrew.
The emperor lamented bitterly the plight in which the disease had placed him and bitterly his
powerlessness, in that he was not able to make away with himself, though he might still, even
when so near death, destroy anybody else. Finally he abandoned his careful regimen and through
using unsuitable foods and drinks met his death, saying and shouting aloud the popular saying:
"Many physicians have ruined a king."

[Sidenote:--23--] He had lived sixty-two years, five months and nineteen [Footnote: Seventeen,
according to the common tradition.] days, and had been emperor twenty years and eleven months.
He was buried near the river itself, close to the Aelian bridge; that was where he had prepared
his tomb, for the one belonging to Augustus was full and no other body was deposited there.

This emperor was hated [by the people, in spite of his excellent reign] on account of the early
and the late murders, since they had been unjustly and impiously brought about. Yet he had
so little of a bloodthirsty disposition that even in the case of some who took pains to thwart
him he deemed it sufficient to write to their native lands the bare statement that they did
not please him. And if any man who had children was absolutely obliged to receive punishment,
still, in proportion to the number of his children he would also lighten the penalty imposed.
[Notwithstanding, the senate persisted for a long time in its refusal to vote him divine honors,
and in its strictures upon some of those who had committed excesses during his reign and had
been honored therefor, when they ought to have been chastised.]

After Hadrian's death there was erected to him a huge equestrian statue representing him with
a four-horse team. It was so large that the bulkiest man could walk through the eye of each
horse, yet because of the extreme height of the monument persons passing along on the ground
below are wont to think that the horses themselves as well as Hadrian are very small.

DIO'S ROMAN HISTORY 70

Antoninus Pius, succeeding by adoption, effects the deification of Hadrian (chapter 1).

The cognomen Pius is bestowed upon Antoninus by the senate (chapter 2).

He showed little hostility toward the Christians: was careful in trifles: met a quiet death
in old age (chapter 3).

Earthquake that damaged Bithynia, the Hellespontine region, and especially Cyzicus (chapter 4).

He is compared with Numa: his gentleness and kindliness (chapter 5).

He was intent upon justice, not upon enlarging the empire: hence the barbarians brought their
quarrels to him to settle (chapters 6, 7).

DURATION OF TIME.

Camerinus, Niger. (A.D. 138 = a.u. 891 = First of Antoninus, from July 10th).

Antoninus Pius Aug. (II), Bruttius Praesens. (A.D. 139 = a.u. 892 = Second of Antoninus).

Antoninus Pius Aug. (III), Aurelius Caesar (II). (A.D. 140 = a.u. 893 = Third of Antoninus).

M. Peducaeus Sylloga Priscinus, T. Hoenius Severus. (A.D. 141 = a.u. 894 = Fourth of Antoninus).

L. Cuspius Rufinus, L. Statius Quadratus. (A.D. 142 = a.u. 895 = Fifth of Antoninus).

C. Bellicius Torquatus, Tib. Claudius Atticus Herodes. (A.D. 143 = a.u. 896 = Sixth of Antoninus).

Avitus, Maximus. (A.D. 144 = a.u. 897 = Seventh of Antoninus).

Antoninus Pius Aug. (IV), M. Aurelius Caesar (II). (A.D. 145 = a.u. 898 = Eighth of Antoninus).

Sex. Erucius Clarus (II), Cn. Claudius Severus. (A.D. 146 = a.u. 899 = Ninth of Antoninus).

Largus, Messalinus. (A.D. 147 = a.u. 900 = Tenth of Antoninus).

L. Torquatus (III), C. Iulianus Vetus. (A.D. 148 = a.u. 901 = Eleventh of Antoninus). Sergius
Scipio Orfitus, Q. Nonius Priscus. (A.D. 149 = a.u. 902 = Twelfth of Antoninus).

Gallicanus, Vetus. (A.D. 150 = a.u. 903 = Thirteenth of Antoninus).

Quintilius Condianus, Quintilius Maximus. (A.D. 151 = a.u. 904 = Fourteenth of Antoninus).

M.' Acilius Glabrio, M. Valerius Homullus. (A.D. 152 = a.u. 905 = Fifteenth of Antoninus).

C. Bruttius Praesens, A. Iunius Rufinus. (A.D. 153 = a.u. 906 = Sixteenth of Antoninus).

L. Ael. Aurelius Commodus, T. Sextius Lateranus. (A.D. 154 = a.u. 907 = Seventeenth of Antoninus).

C. Iulius Severus, M. Rufinius Sabinianus. (A.D. 155 = a.u. 908 = Eighteenth of Antoninus).

M. Ceionius Silvanus, C. Serius Augurinus. (A.D. 158 = a.u. 909 = Nineteenth of Antoninus).

Barbaras, Regulus. (A.D. 157 = a.u. 910 = Twentieth of Antoninus).

Tertullus, Sacerdos. (A.D. 158 = a.u. 911 = Twenty-first of Antoninus).

Plautius Quintilius, Statius Priscus. (A.D. 159 = a.u. 912 = Twenty-second of Antoninus).

T. Clodius Vibius Varus, App. Annius Atilius Bradua. (A.D. 160 = a.u. 913 = Twenty-third of
Antoninus).

M. Ael. Aurelius Verus Caesar (III), I. Ael. Aurelius Commodus (II). (A.D. 161 = a.u. 914 =
Twenty-fourth of Antoninus, to March 7th).

I. From Dio:

[Sidenote: A.D. 138 (a.u. 891)] [Sidenote:--1--] It should be noted that information about
Antoninus Pius is not found in the copies of Dio, probably because the books have met with
some accident, so that the history of his reign is almost wholly unknown, save that when Lucius
Commodus, whom Hadrian had adopted, died before Hadrian, Antoninus was also adopted by him
and became emperor, and that when the senate demurred to giving heroic honors to Hadrian after
his demise on account of certain murders of eminent men, Antoninus addressed many words to
them with tears and laments, and finally said: "I will not govern you either, if he has become
base and inimical and a national foe in your eyes. For you will of course be annulling all
his acts, of which my adoption was one." On hearing this the senate both through respect for
the man and through a certain fear of the soldiers bestowed the honors upon Hadrian.

[Sidenote:--2--] Only this in regard to Antoninus is preserved in Dio. Yes, one thing more--that
the senate gave him the titles both of Augustus and of Pius for some such reason as the following.
When in the beginning of his imperial reign many men were accused and some of them had been
interceded for by name, he nevertheless punished no one, saying: "I must not begin my career
of supervision with such deeds."

[Sidenote: LXIX, 15, 3] [When Pharasmanes the Iberian came to Rome with his wife, he increased
his domain, allowed him to offer sacrifice on the Capitoline, set up a statue of him on horseback
in the temple of Bellona, and viewed an exercise in arms of the chieftain, his son, and the
other prominent Iberians.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 139 (a.u. 892)] We do not find preserved, either, the first part of the account
of Marcus Verus, who ruled after Antoninus and all that the latter himself did in the case
of Lucius, son of Commodus, whom Marcus made his son-in-law, and all that Lucius accomplished
when sent by his father to the war against Vologaesus. I shall speak briefly about these matters,
gathering my material from other books, and then I shall go back to the continuation of Dio's
narrative.

II. From Xiphilinus:

[Sidenote: LXX, 3] [Sidenote: A.D. 153 (a.u. 906)] Antoninus is admitted by all to have been
noble and good, not oppressive to the Christians nor severe to any of his other subjects; instead,
he showed the Christians great respect and added to the honor in which Hadrian had been wont
to hold them. For Eusebius, son of Pamphilus, cites in his Church History [Footnote: IV, 9.]
some letters of Hadrian in which the latter is shown to threaten terrible vengeance upon those
who harm in any way or accuse the Christians, and to swear by Hercules that they shall receive
punishment.

Antoninus is said also to have been of an enquiring turn of mind and not to have held aloof
from careful investigation of even small and commonplace matters; for this those disposed to
scoff called him Cumminsplitter.

[Sidenote: A.D. 161 (a.u. 914)] Quadratus states that he died at an advanced age, and that
the happiest death befell him, like unto gentlest slumber.

[Sidenote:(A.D. 177?)] [Sidenote:--4--] In the days of Antoninus also a most frightful earthquake
is said to have occurred in the region of Bithynia and the Hellespont. Various cities were
severely damaged or fell without a building left standing, and in particular Cyzicus; and the
temple there that was the greatest and most beautiful of all temples was thrown down. Its columns
were four cubits in thickness and fifty cubits in height, each of a single block of stone;
and each of the other features of the edifice was more to be wondered at than to be praised.
Somewhere in the interior of the country the peak of a mountain rose upwards and surges of
the sea are said to have gushed out, while the spray from pure, transparent sea-water was driven
to a great distance over the land. [Footnote: Compare also Zonaras V, 12 (p. 80, II. 3-11 Dind)..
It is not certain whether this earthquake properly belongs to the reign of Pius or that of
Marcus. If to the former, it must have occurred between 150 and 155 B.C. See Hermes XXVI, pages
444-446 (Boissevain: Zonaras Quelle für die Romische Kaisergeschichte von Nerva bis Severus
Alexander) and XXXII, pages 497-508 (B. Keil: Kyzikenisches); also Byzantinische Zeitschrift
I, page 30 ff. (article by de Boor).]--So much is the account of Antoninus at present extant.
He reigned twenty-four years.

III. Of Dio [or rather of Eutropius, or John of Antioch]. Taken from the Writings of Suidas.

This prince Antoninus was an excellent man and deserves to be compared especially with Numa
on account of the similarity of his reign to that king's, just as Trajan was seen to resemble
Romulus. The private life that Antoninus lived was thoroughly excellent and honorable, [Sidenote:--5--]
and in his position as ruler he seemed to be even more excellent and more prudent. To no one
was he harsh or oppressive, but he was gracious and gentle toward all.

[Sidenote:--6--] In warfare he sought glory rather from an impulse of duty than from one of
gain, and was determined to preserve the borders of the empire intact rather than to extend
them to greater distances. In the matter of men he appointed to the administration of public
affairs, so far as possible, those who were particularly scrupulous about right conduct, and
he rewarded good officials with the honors that were in his power to grant, whereas he banished
the worthless (though without any harshness) from the conduct of public affairs.

[Sidenote:--7--] He was admired not alone by those of his own race, but even by foreigners,
as was shown by some of the neighboring barbarians laying down their arms and permitting the
prince to decide their quarrels by his vote. And whereas he had in the course of his life as
a private citizen amassed a vast amount of money, when he entered upon office he expended his
own abundance upon gifts for the soldiers and for his friends. To the public treasury he left
a great deal of property of all kinds.

DIO'S ROMAN HISTORY 71

The emperor Marcus takes Verus as an associate: he gives him charge of the Parthian war (chapters
1, 2).

Wars with the Iazyges, Marcomani, and Germans (chapters 3 and 5).

About the war in Egypt with the Bucoli (chapter 4).

Marcus's tirelessness in hearing cases at law (chapter 6).

The Iazyges conquered (chapter 7).

The Quadi are vanquished by rain sent from Heaven in answer to Roman prayers (chapters 8 and 10).

About the Thunderbolt Legion from Melitene (chapter 9).

How envoys came to the emperor from a number of barbarians,--the Quadi, Astingi, Iazyges, Marcomani,
Naristi (chapters 11-21).

Revolt of Cassius and of Syria (chapters 22-26).

How Cassius was killed, together with his son (chapter 27).

Kindness of Marcus toward the adherents of Cassius: death of Faustina and honors accorded her
(chapters 28-31).

The return of Marcus and his generosity (chapter 32).

With his son Commodus he subjugates the Scythians: he himself meets death (chapter 33).

Eulogy of Marcus (chapters 34, 35).

DURATION OF TIME.

M. Ael. Aurel. Verus Caes. (III), L. Ael. Aurel. Commodus (II). (A.D. 161 = a.u. 914 = First
of Marcus, from March 7th).

Iunius Rusticus, Vettius Aquilinus. (A.D. 162 = a.u. 915 = Second of Marcus).

I. Aelianus, Pastor. (A.D. 163 = a.u. 916 = Third of Marcus).

M. Pompeius Macrinus, P. Iuventius Celsus. (A.D. 164 = a.u. 917 = Fourth of Marcus).

L. Arrius Pudens, M. Gavius Orfitus. (A.D. 165 = a.u. 918 = Fifth of Marcus).

Q. Servilius Pudens, L. Fufidius Pollio. (A.D. 166 = a.u. 919 = Sixth of Marcus). L. Aurelius
Verus Aug. (III), Quadratus. (A.D. 167 = a.u. 920 = Seventh of Marcus).

T. Iunius Montanus, L. Vettius Paulus. (A.D. 168 = a.u. 921 = Eighth of Marcus).

Q. Sosius Priscus, P. Caelius Apollinaris. (A.D. 169 = a.u. 922 = Ninth of Marcus).

M. Cornelius Cethegus, C. Erucius Clarus. (A.D. 170 = a.u. 923 = Tenth of Marcus).

L. Septimius Severus (II), L. Alfidius Herennianus. (A.D. 171 = a.u. 924 = Eleventh of Marcus).

Maximus, Orfitus. (A.D. 172 = a.u. 925 = Twelfth of Marcus).

M. Aurelius Severus (II), T. Claudius Pompeianus. (A.D. 173 = a.u. 926 = Thirteenth of Marcus).

Gallus, Flaccus. (A.D. 174 = a.u. 927 = Fourteenth of Marcus).

Piso, Iulianus. (A.D. 175 = a.u. 928 = Fifteenth of Marcus).

Pollio (II), Aper (II). (A.D. 176 = a.u. 929 = Sixteenth of Marcus).

L. Aurel. Commodus Aug., Quintilius. (A.D. 177 = a.u. 930 = Seventeenth of Marcus).

Rufus, Orfitus. (A.D. 178 = a.u. 931 = Eighteenth of Marcus).

Commodus Aug. (II), T. Annius Aurel. Verus (II). (A.D. 179 = a.u. 932 = Nineteenth of Marcus).

L. Fulvius Bruttius Praesens (II), Sextus Quintilius Condianus. (A.D. 180 = a.u. 933 = Twentieth
of Marcus, to March 17th).

[Sidenote: A.D. 161 (a.u. 914)] [Sidenote:--1--] Marcus Antoninus, the philosopher, upon obtaining
the sovereignty at the death of Antoninus, who adopted him, had immediately taken to share
the authority with him the son of Lucius Commodus, Lucius Verus. He was personally weak in
body and he devoted the greater part of his time to letters. It is told that even when he was
emperor he showed no shame (or hesitation) at going to a teacher for instruction, but became
a pupil of Sextus, the Boeotian philosopher, [Footnote: "Sextus of Chaeronea, grandson of Plutarch"
(Capitolinus, Vita M. Antoni Philosophi, 3, 2).] and did not hesitate to go to hear the lectures
of Hermogenes on rhetoric. He was most inclined to the Stoic school.

Lucius, on the other hand, was strong and rather young, and better suited for military enterprises.
Therefore, Marcus made him his son-in-law by marrying him to his daughter Lucilla, and sent
him to the Parthian war.

[Sidenote:--2--] For Vologaesus had begun war by assailing on all sides the Roman camp under
Severianus, situated in Elegeia, a place in Armenia; and he had shot down and destroyed the
whole force, leaders and all. He was now proceeding with numbers that inspired terror against
the cities of Syria. [Sidenote: A.D. 162 (a.u. 915)] Lucius, accordingly, on coming to Antioch
collected a great many soldiers, and with the best commanders under his supervision took up
a position in the city, spending his time in ordering all arrangements and in gathering the
contingent for the war. He entrusted the armies themselves to Cassius. The latter made a noble
stand against the attack [Sidenote: A.D. 165 (a.u. 918)] of Vologaesus, and finally the chieftain
was deserted by his allies and began to retire; then Cassius pursued him as far as Seleucia
and destroyed it and razed to the ground the palace of Vologaesus at Ctesiphon. In the course
of his return he lost a great many soldiers through famine and disease, yet he started off
to Syria with the men that were left. Lucius attained glory by these exploits and felt a just
pride in them, yet his extreme good fortune did him no good. [Sidenote: A.D. 169 (a.u. 922)]
For he is said to have subsequently plotted against his father-in-law Marcus and to have perished
by poison before he could accomplish anything.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fragments of Dio from Suidas (thought by de Valois to belong to Book LXXI).

[Martius Verus sends out Thucydides to conduct Sohaemus into Armenia; and he, in spite of lack
of arms, applied himself sturdily to this distant task with the inherent good sense that he
showed in all business falling to his lot. Marcus had the gift not only of overpowering his
antagonists or anticipating them by swiftness or outwitting them by deceit (on which qualities
generals most rely), but also of persuading them by trustworthy promises and conciliating them
by generous gifts and luring them on by tempting hopes. He was suave in all that he did or
said, and soothed the vexed and angry feelings of each adversary while greatly raising his
hopes. He knew well the right time for flattery and presents and entertainment at table. And
since in addition to these talents he showed persistency in endeavor and activity together
with speed against his foes, he made it plain to the barbarians that his friendship was better
worth gaining than his enmity. So when he arrived at the New city, which a garrison of Romans
placed there by Priscus was occupying, and found them attempting mutiny, he took care, both
by word and by deed, to bring them to a better temper, and he made the city the foremost of
Armenia.]

[* * Bridging.--By the Romans the streams and rivers are bridged with the greatest ease, since
the soldiers are always practicing at it, and it is carried on like any other warlike exercise
on the Ister and the Rhine and the Euphrates. The manner of doing it (which I think not everybody
knows) is as follows. The boats, by means of which the river is bridged, are flat. They are
anchored up stream a little above the spot where the bridge is to be constructed. When the
signal is given, they first let one ship drift down stream close to the bank that they are
holding. When it has come opposite the spot to be bridged, they throw into the water a basket
filled with stones and fastened with a cord, which serves as an anchor. Made fast in this way
the ship is joined to the bank by planks and bridgework, which the vessel carries in large
quantities, and immediately a floor is laid to the farther edge. Then they release another
ship at a little distance from this one and another one after that until they run the bridge
to the opposite bank. The boat which is near the hostile side carries also towers upon it and
a gate and archers and catapults.

As many weapons were hurled at the men engaged in bridging, Cassius ordered weapons and catapults
to be discharged. And when the front rank of the barbarians fell, the rest gave way.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 172 (a.u. 925)] [Sidenote:--3--] Cassius, however, was bidden by Marcus to
have the superintendence of all Asia. The emperor himself fought for a long time, in fact almost
his whole life, one might say, with the barbarians in the Ister region, the Iazyges and the
Marcomani, first one and then the other, and he used Pannonia as his starting point.

The Langobardi and the Obii [Footnote: Or perhaps Osi.] to the number of six thousand crossed
the Ister, but the cavalry under Vindex [Footnote: M. Macrinius Avitus Catonius Vindex.] marched
out and the infantry commanded by Candidus got the start of them, so that an utter rout of
the barbarians was instituted. The barbarians, thrown into consternation by such an outcome
of their very first undertaking, despatched as envoys to the headquarters of Iallius Bassus
[Footnote: M. Iallius Bassus.] (administrator of Pannonia) Bellomarius [Footnote: Or perhaps
Badomarius.], king of the Marcomani, and ten more, for they selected one man per nation. The
envoys took oaths to cement the peace and departed homewards.

Many of the Celtae, too, across the Rhine, advanced to the confines of Italy and inflicted
much serious harm upon the Romans. They, in turn, were followed up by Marcus, who opposed to
them the lieutenants Pompeianus and Pertinax. Pertinax, who later became emperor, greatly distinguished
himself. Among the corpses of the barbarians were found also the bodies of women in armor.

[Sidenote: A.D. 168(?)] Yet, when a most violent struggle and brilliant victory had taken place,
the emperor nevertheless refused the petition of the soldiers for money, making this statement:
"Whatever excess they obtain above the customary amount will be wrung from the blood of their
parents and their kinsmen. For respecting the fate of the empire Heaven alone can decide."--And
he ruled them so temperately and firmly that even in the course of so many and great wars he
was impelled neither by flattery nor by fear to do aught that was unfitting.

[Sidenote: A.D. 172 (a.u. 925)] After conquering them Marcus received the title of Germanicus.
We give the name "Germans" to those who dwell in the northern regions.

[Sidenote:--4--] The so-called Bucoli began a disturbance in Egypt, and under the leadership
of Isidorus, a priest, [Footnote: Omitting [Greek: kai].] caused the rest of the Egyptians
to revolt. They had first, arrayed in women's garments, deceived the Roman centurion, making
him think that they were Bucoli women and wanted to give him gold pieces in exchange for their
husbands, and then striking him down when he approached them. His companion they sacrificed,
and after taking a common oath over his entrails they devoured them. Isidorus surpassed in
bribery all his contemporaries. Next, having conquered the Romans in Egypt in regular battle
they came very near capturing Alexandria, and would have done so, had not Cassius been sent
against them from Syria as directing general. He succeeded in spoiling the concord that existed
among them and sundering them one from another, for on account of their numbers and desperation
he had not ventured to attack them united. So when they fell into factional disputes he easily
subdued them.

[Sidenote:--5--] Now it was in Marcus's war against the Germans (if mention ought to be made
of these matters), that a captive lad on being asked some questions by him rejoined: "I can
not answer you because of the cold. So if you want to find out anything, command that a coat
be given me, if you have one."--And a soldier one night, who was doing guard duty on the Ister,
hearing a shout of his fellow-soldiers in captivity on the other side, at once swam the stream
just as he was, released them, and brought them back.

One prefect of Marcus's was Bassaeus Rufus, a good man on the whole, but uneducated and boorish,
having been brought up in poverty in his early youth. [Wherefore he had been disinclined to
go on the campaign, and what Marcus said was incomprehensible to him.] Once some one had interrupted
him in the midst of trimming a vine that wound about a tree, and when he did not come down
at the first bidding, the person rebuked him, and said: "Come down there, prefect." This he
said thinking to humiliate him for his previous haughtiness; yet later Fortune gave him this
title to wear.

[Sidenote:--6--] The emperor, as often as he had leisure from war, held court and used to order
that a most liberal supply of water be measured out for the speakers. [Footnote: This refers
to the contrivance known as the clepsydra or water-clock, which measured time by the slow dropping
of water from an upper into a lower vessel, somewhat on the plan of the hour-glass.] He made
inquiries and answers of greater length, so that exact justice was ensured by every possible
expedient. In the rock itself he excavated fifteen rooms, to each of which he gave an appropriate
name; the most interesting are the "Gaol Room," the "Devil's Chamber," the "Circular Room,"
the "Dining Room," and the "Ball Room." The height of the entire excavation is twenty feet,
its breadth thirty, and its length, from the ball room to the cottage, one hundred and twenty.
Several parts of the cave are lighted by windows hewn in the face of the rock, and these give
the cave a picturesque appearance as viewed frown the beach below. In addition to these labours,
Peter took possession of a huge table-rock, which stands some distance from the cliffs opposite
to the grotto. By dint of extraordinary exertions he excavated a passage from the land side
of this rock through its substance to the surface, and by placing scaling ladders against its
face, made provision for ascent and descent at high water. The three-quarters of an acre of surface
he colonised with rabbits, and built a shanty for himself and companions, where they dwelt for
some time thinning the wild fowl with their deadly shots, and raising many an echo with their shouts
of revelry.

To describe the strange scene presented by the grotto itself, the farm-buildings on the face
of the cliff, the huge table-rock and flagstaff, the many quaint blocks, pillars and wild escarpments,
and the numerous domestic animals, such as mastiffs, pigs, ravens, and goats, all congregated
together in a small bay, and literally separated from the world by the barren waste land above,
and the huge cliffs and restless sea below, would be beyond the scope of "N.& Q.," though it is
worth a note in passing, that for the tourist a visit to Marsden
would be highly remunerative.

Peter
Allan endured many hardships in his cave at Marsden. He was accused of smuggling, and annoyed by
the excise. He and his family were once shut in for six weeks by the snow, during the whole
of which time it was impossible for any human being to approach them. Yet in spite of many
hardships, Peter reared in the grotto a family of eight children, three daughters and five
sons, all of whom are living and prospering in the world. The grotto is still kept by his widow,
his{ 648} eldest son William, and one daughter, assisting Mrs. Allan in the management The son
William is an experienced blaster, and occupies himself in excavations and improvements; the daughter,
a brunette, is a first-rate shot, and a girl of extraordinary spirit and gaiety. She is the
Grace Darling of the neighbourhood, and both her and her mother have saved many lives by their
dexterity in boating and extraordinary courage. Peter himself was a bold, determined, and honest man,
fond of a joke, and passionately devoted to bees, birds, pigs, and
dogs, many of whom (pigs especially) used to follow him to Shields
and Sunderland, when he went thither.

After twenty-two years'possession of the caverns, the proprietor of the adjoining land served him with
a process of ejectment; Peter refused to leave the habitation which he had formed by twenty years'unremitting
toil, and which he had actually won from the sea, without encroachment on an inch of the mainland.
After a tedious law-suit, judgment was given in his favour, but he had to pay costs. The anxieties
of this lawsuit broke his heart, and he never recovered either health or spirits. He died on the 31st
of August, 1849, in the 51st year of his age, leaving his wife and
eight children to lament him. The Romans fell into dire distress from their fatigue and wounds and the sun's
heat and their thirst, and for these reasons could neither fight nor march in any direction
but were standing and being scorched in line of battle and at their several posts, when suddenly
numbers of clouds rushed together and a great rain, certainly of divine origin, came pouring
down. Indeed, there is a story that Arnouphis, an Egyptian wizard, who was a companion of Marcus,
invoked by means of enchantments various deities and in particular Mercury, god of the air,
and by this means attracted the rain.

[Sidenote:--9--] This is what Dio says about it, but he seems to be telling an untruth, whether
voluntarily or involuntarily; I am more inclined to think it is voluntarily. It surely must
be so, for he was not ignorant of the fact that one company of the soldiers had the special
name of "The Thunderbolt" (he mentions it in the list along with the rest), [Footnote: The
reference is evidently to Book Fifty-five, chapter 23, but it should be observed that the names,
though very possibly having the same sense, are not identical. The legion is here called [Greek:
keraunobolos] (=Fulminatrix or Fulminata) but in 55, 23 [Greek: keraunophoros] (= Fulminifera).]
and this was due to no other cause (nor is any other reported) save that event which gave rise
to the title in this very war,--an event which enabled the Romans to survive on this occasion
and brought destruction upon the barbarians. It was not Arnouphis, the wizard, for Marcus is
not accounted to have taken pleasure in the company of wizards and charms. But what I have
reference to is as follows: Marcus had a company (and the Roman name for company is "legion")
of soldiers from Melitene. They were all worshipers of Christ. Now it is stated that in that
battle, when Marcus was in a quandary over having been surrounded and feared the loss of his
whole army, the prefect approached him and said that those called Christians can accomplish
anything whatever by their prayers, and that among them there chanced to be a whole company
of this sect. Marcus, on hearing this, made an appeal to them to pray to their God. And when
they had prayed, the God immediately gave ear, hurling a thunderbolt upon the enemy and encouraging
the Romans with rain. Marcus was astounded at what happened and honored the Christians by an
official decree, while the legion he named "The Thunderbolt." It is said also that there is
a letter of Marcus extant on this matter. But the Greeks, though they know that the company
was called "Thunderbolt" and bear witness to the fact themselves, make no statement whatever
about the reason for the appellation.

[Sidenote:--10--] Dio goes on to say that when the rain poured down at first all bent their
faces upwards and received it in their mouths. Then some held their shields and their helmets
as pails, and they themselves took fullmouthed draughts of it and gave their horses to drink.
The barbarians making a charge upon them, they drank and fought at the same time; and some
who were wounded gulped down together the water and the blood that flowed into their helmets.
The most of them had given so much attention to drinking that they would have suffered some
great damage from the enemy's onset had not a violent hail and numbers of thunderbolts fallen
upon the latter's ranks. In the same spot one might see water and fire descending from Heaven
at the same time: the one side was being drenched and drinking, the other was being burned
with fire and dying. The fire did not touch the Romans, but if it fell anywhere among them
it was straightway extinguished. On the other hand, the shower did the barbarians no good,
but like oil served rather to feed the flames that fed on them, and they searched for water
while in the midst of rain. Some wounded themselves in the attempt to put out the fire with
blood, and others ran over to the side of the Romans, convinced that they alone had the saving
water. Marcus finally took pity on them. He was for the seventh time saluted as imperator by
the soldiers. And although he was not wont to accept any such honor before the senate voted
it, [Footnote: Cp. Mommsen, Staatsrecht, 12, p. 123 (or 13, p. 124); also III, p. 1108.] nevertheless
this time he took it under the assumption that it was bestowed from Heaven, and he sent a despatch
to that effect to the senate.--Moreover Faustina was named "Mother of the Legions."

[Sidenote:--11--] [Marcus [Antoninus] remained in Pannonia in order to transact business with
the embassies of the barbarians. Many came to him also at this time. Some promised an alliance:
they were led by Battarius, a child twelve years old, and they received money and succeeded
in restraining Tarbus, a neighboring potentate, who had come into Dacia, was demanding money,
and threatening to make war if he should not get it. Others, like the Quadi, were asking for
peace, and they obtained it, the emperor's purpose being to have them detached from the Marcomani.
Another reason was that they gave horses and cattle, surrendered all the deserters and the
captives at first to the number of thirteen thousand, though later they promised to restore
the remainder as well. However, the right of free intercourse even at markets was not granted
them, the intention being to prevent the Iazyges and the Marcomani, whom they had sworn not
to receive nor let pass through their country, from either mingling with them or presenting
themselves also in the guise of Quadi,--a plan which would enable them to reconnoitre the Roman
position and to purchase provisions. Besides these who came to Marcus, many others despatched
envoys, some by tribes and some by nations, offering to surrender themselves. Some of them
were sent on campaigns to other parts of the world, and the captives and deserters who were
fit for it were similarly treated. Others received land, in Dacia or in Pannonia or in Moesia
and Germany or in Italy itself. A few of them who settled at Ravenna made an uprising and even
dared to take possession of the city: and for this reason he did not again bring any barbarian
into Italy, but made even those who had previously come there find homes outside.]

Detachments of both Astingi and Lacringi had come to lend assistance to Marcus.

[Sidenote:--12--] [The Astingi, whose leaders were Raus and Raptus, came into Dacia to settle,
in the hope of receiving both money and land in return for terms of alliance. As they did not
obtain this, they put their wives and children in the keeping of Clemens, [Footnote: Sex. Cornelius
Clemens.] with the apparent intention of acquiring the land of the Costobocci by force of arms;
and upon conquering them they injured Dacia no less. The Lacringi, fearing that Clemens out
of dread might lead these newcomers into the land which they were inhabiting, attacked them
off their guard and won a decisive victory. As a result, the Astingi committed no further deeds
displaying hostility to the Romans, but by making urgent supplication to Marcus received money
from him and asked that land might be given them if they should harm in some way his temporary
enemies. Now these performed some of their promises. The Cotini made similar propositions,
but upon getting control of Tarrutenius Paternus, secretary of the emperor's Latin letters,
under the pretext of requiring his aid for a campaign against the Marcomani, they not only
failed to take this course but did him frightful injury and thereby ensured their own destruction
later.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 171 (a.u. 924)] When in one battle the Marcomani were successful and killed
Marcus Vindex, the prefect, he erected three statues in his memory.

[Sidenote:--13--] [Envoys were also sent to Marcus by the Iazyges, requesting peace, but they
did not obtain any. For Marcus, knowing their race to be untrustworthy, and, furthermore, because
he had been deceived by the Quadi, wished to annihilate them absolutely. [Footnote: Reading
[Greek: exelein] (Boissevain) in place of the MS. [Greek: exelthein].] The Quadi had not only
made alliances at this time with the Iazyges, but previously, too, were wont to receive in
their own land Marcomanian fugitives who might be hard pressed, while that tribe was at war
with the Romans. Nor did they do aught else that they had agreed, for they did not restore
all the captives, but only a few, and these were such as they could not sell nor use for any
work as helpers. And whenever they did give back any of those in good condition, they would
keep their relatives at home in order that the men given up might desert again to join their
friends. They also expelled their king, Furtius, and on their own responsibility made Ariogaesus
king instead. Consequently the emperor did not confirm him, since he had not been legally installed,
nor renew the treaty of peace, though they promised to return fifty thousand captives if he would.]

[Sidenote:--14--] [Against Ariogaesus Marcus was so bitter that he issued a proclamation to
the effect that any one who would bring him alive should receive a thousand gold pieces, and
any one who killed him and exhibited his head, five hundred. On Spelling. V. On Sanskrit Texts
Discovered In Japan. Index.

Footnotes I. ON FREEDOM.

Presidential Address Delivered Before The Birmingham Midland Institute,
October 20, 1879.

Not more than twenty years have passed since John Stuart Mill sent
forth his plea for Liberty.

(1) If there is one among the leaders of thought in England who, by
the elevation of his character and the calm composure of his mind,
deserved the so often misplaced title of Serene Highness, it was,
I think, John Stuart Mill.

But in his Essay“ On Liberty,” Mill
for once becomes passionate. In presenting his Bill of Rights, in stepping
forward as the champion of individual liberty, he seems to be possessed
by a new spirit. He speaks like a martyr, or the defender of martyrs.

  
  

The individual human soul, with its unfathomable endowments, and
its capacity of growing to something undreamt of in our philosophy,
becomes in his eyes a sacred thing, and every encroachment on its
world-wide domain is treated as sacrilege.

Society, the arch-enemy of the rights of individuality, is represented like an evil spirit,
whom it behooves every true man to resist with might and main, and whose demands, as they cannot
be altogether ignored, must be reduced at all hazards to the lowest level. I doubt whether
any of the principles for which Mill pleaded so warmly and strenuously in his Essay“ On Liberty” would
at the present day be challenged or resisted, even by the most illiberal of philosophers, or the most conservative
of politicians. Mill’ s demands sound very humble to our ears. They
amount to no more than this,“ that the individual is not accountable
to society for his actions so far as they concern the interests of
no person but himself, and that he may be subjected to social or legal
punishments for such actions only as are prejudicial to the interests
of others.” Is there any one here present who doubts the justice of
that principle, or who would wish to reduce the freedom of the individual
to a smaller measure?

Whatever social tyranny may have existed twenty years ago, when it
wrung that fiery protest from the lips of John Stuart Mill, can we
imagine a state of society, not totally Utopian, in which the individual
man need be less ashamed of his social fetters, in which he could
more freely utter all his honest convictions, more boldly propound
all his theories, more fearlessly agitate for their speedy realization;
in which, in fact, each man can be so entirely himself as the society
of England, such as it now is, such as generations of hard-thinking
and hard-working Englishmen have made it, and left it as the most
sacred inheritance to their sons and daughters?

Look through the whole of history, not excepting the brightest days of republican freedom at Athens
and Rome, and you will not find one single period in which the measure of liberty accorded to each individual
was larger than it is at present, at least in England. And if you wish to realize the full blessings
of the time in which we live, compare Mill’ s plea for Liberty with another written not much more
than two hundred years ago, and by a thinker not inferior either in power or boldness to Mill himself.
According to Hobbes, the only freedom which an individual in his
ideal state has a right to claim is what he calls“ freedom of thought,”
and that freedom of thought consists in our being able to think what
we like— so long as we keep it to ourselves.

Surely, such freedom of thought existed even in the days of the Inquisition, and we should never
call thought free, if it had to be kept a prisoner in solitary and silent confinement. By freedom of
thought we mean freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of action, whether individual or associated,
and of that freedom the present generation, as compared with all
former generations, the English nation, as compared with all other
nations, enjoys, there can be no doubt, a good measure, pressed down,
and shaken together, and sometimes running over. It may be said that some
dogmas still remain in politics, in religion, and in morality; but those
who defend them claim no longer any infallibility, and those who attack
them, however small their minority, need fear no violence, nay, may
reckon on an impartial and even sympathetic hearing, as soon as people
discover in their pleadings the true ring of honest conviction and
the warmth inspired by an unselfish love of truth.

It has seemed strange, therefore, to many readers of Mill, particularly on the Continent, that this
plea for liberty, this demand for freedom for every individual to be what
he is, and to develop all the germs of his nature, should have come from
what is known as the freest of all countries, England.

We might well understand such a cry of indignation if it had reached
us from Russia; but why should English philosophers, of all others,
have to protest against the tyranny of society? It is true, nevertheless,
that in countries governed despotically, the individual, unless he
is obnoxious to the Government, enjoys far greater freedom, or rather
license, than in a country like England, which governs itself.

Russian society, for instance, is extremely indulgent. It tolerates in its rulers and statesmen a haughty
defiance of the simplest rules of social propriety, and it seems amused rather than astonished or indignant
at the vagaries, the frenzies, and outrages of those who in brilliant drawing-rooms or lecture-rooms
preach the doctrines of what is called Nihilism or Individualism, (2)— viz.,“ that society
must be regenerated by a struggle for existence and the survival
of the strongest, processes which Nature has sanctioned, and which
have proved successful among wild animals.” If there is danger in
these doctrines the Government is expected to see to it.

It may place watchmen at the doors of every house and at the corner of every street, but it must
not count on the better classes coming forward to enrol themselves as special constables, or even
on the coöperation of public opinion which in England would annihilate that kind of Nihilism
with one glance of scorn and pity.

In a self-governed country like England, the resistance which society, if it likes, can oppose
to the individual in the assertion of his rights, is far more compact and powerful than in Russia,
or even in Germany. Even where it does not employ the arm of the law, society knows how to
use that quieter, but more crushing pressure, that calm, Gorgon-like
look which only the bravest and stoutest hearts know how to resist.
It is against that indirect repression which a well-organized society
exercises, both through its male and female representatives, that
Mill’ s demand for liberty seems directed.

He does not stand up for unlimited individualism; on the contrary, he would have been the most strenuous
defender of that balance of power between the weak and the strong on which all social life depends.
But he resents those smaller penalties which society will always inflict on those who disturb its
dignified peace and comfort:— avoidance, exclusion, a cold look, a stinging remark. Had Mill any
right to complain of these social penalties? Would it not rather amount to an interference with
individual liberty to deprive any individual or any number of individuals of those weapons of
self-defence? Those who themselves think and speak freely, have hardly
a right to complain, if others claim the same privilege.

Mill himself called the Conservative party the stupid party par excellence, and he took great pains
to explain that it was so not by accident, but by necessity. Need
he wonder if those whom he whipped and scourged used their own whips
and scourges against so merciless a critic? Freethinkers— and I use
that name as a title of honor for all who, like Mill, claim for every
individual the fullest freedom in thought, word, or deed, compatible with
the freedom of others— are apt to make one mistake. Conscious of their
own honest intentions, they cannot bear to be misjudged or slighted.
They expect society to submit to their often very painful operations
as a patient submits to the knife of the surgeon.

This is not in human nature. The enemy of abuses is always abused by his enemies. Society will
never yield one inch without resistance, and few reformers live long enough to receive the thanks
of those whom they have reformed. Mill’ s unsolicited election to Parliament was a triumph not often
shared by social reformers; it was as exceptional as Bright’ s admission
to a seat in the Cabinet, or Stanley’ s appointment as Dean of Westminster.

Such anomalies will happen in a country fortunately so full of anomalies as England; but, as a
rule, a political reformer must not be angry if he passes through life without the title of
Right Honorable; nor should a man, if he will always speak the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth, be disappointed if he dies a martyr rather than a Bishop. But even granting
that in Mill’ s time there existed some traces of social tyranny,
where are they now?

Look at the newspapers and the journals. Is there any theory too wild, any reform too violent,
to be openly defended? Look at the drawing-rooms or the meetings of learned societies. Are not
the most eccentric talkers the spoiled children of the fashionable world? When young lords begin
to discuss the propriety of limiting the rights of inheritance, and young tutors are not afraid to
propose curtailing the long vacation, surely we need not complain of the intolerance of English
society. Whenever I state these facts to my German and French and Italian friends, who from
reading Mill’ s Essay“ On Liberty” have derived the impression that, however large an amount of political
liberty England may enjoy, it enjoys but little of intellectual freedom, they are generally willing
to be converted so far as London, or other great cities are concerned. But look at your Universities,
they say, the nurseries of English thought! Compare their mediæval spirit, their monastic institutions,
their scholastic philosophy, with the freshness and freedom of the
Continental Universities!

Strong as these prejudices about Oxford and Cambridge have long been, they have become still more
intense since Professor Helmholtz, in an inaugural address which
he delivered at his installation as Rector of the University of Berlin,
lent to them the authority of his great name.“ The tutors,” he says,
(3)“ in the English Universities cannot deviate by a hair’ s-breadth
from the dogmatic system of the English Church, without exposing themselves
to the censure of their Archbishops and losing their pupils.” In German
Universities, on the contrary, we are told that the extreme conclusions
of materialistic metaphysics, the boldest speculations within the
sphere of Darwin’ s theory of evolution, may be propounded without
let or hindrance, quite as much as the highest apotheosis of Papal
infallibility.

Here the facts on which Professor Helmholtz relies are entirely wrong, and the writings of some
of our most eminent tutors supply a more than sufficient refutation of his statements. Archbishops
have no official position whatsoever in English Universities, and their censure of an Oxford tutor
would be resented as impertinent by the whole University. Nor does the University, as such, exercise
any very strict control over the tutors, even when they lecture not to their own College only.
Each Master of Arts at Oxford claims now the right to lecture (venia docendi), and I doubt whether
they would submit to those restrictions which, in Germany, the Faculty imposes on every Privat-docent.
Privat-docents in German Universities have been rejected by the Faculty for incompetence, and silenced
for insubordination. I know of no such cases at Oxford during my residence of more than thirty years,
nor can I think it likely that they should ever occur. As to the extreme conclusions of materialistic
metaphysics, there are Oxford tutors who have grappled with the systems of such giants as
Hobbes, Locke, or Hume, and who are not likely to be frightened by Büchner and Vogt. I know comparisons
are odious, and I should be the last man to draw comparisons between
English and German Universities unfavorable to the latter.

But with regard to freedom of thought, of speech, and action, Professor Helmholtz, if he would
spend but a few weeks at Oxford, would find that we enjoy it in fuller measure here than the Professors
and Privat-docents in any Continental University. The publications of some of our professors and tutors
ought at least to have convinced him that if there is less of brave words and turbulent talk
in their writings, they display throughout a determination to speak the truth, which may be matched,
but could not easily be excelled, by the leaders of thought in France, Germany, or Italy. The real
difference between English and Continental Universities is that the
former govern themselves, the latter are governed.

Self-government entails responsibilities, sometimes restraints and reticences. I may here be allowed
to quote the words of another eminent Professor of the University of Berlin, Du Bois Reymond,
who, in addressing his colleagues, ventured to tell them, (4)“ We have still to learn from
the English how the greatest independence of the individual is compatible with willing submission
to salutary, though irksome, statutes.” That is particularly true when the statutes are self-imposed.
In Germany, as Professor Helmholtz tells us himself, the last decision
in almost all the more important affairs of the Universities rests
with the Government, and he does not deny that in times of political
and ecclesiastical tension, a most ill-advised use has been made of
that power.

There are, besides, the less important matters, such as raising of salaries, leave of absence, scientific
missions, even titles and decorations, all of which enable a clever Minister of Instruction to assert
his personal influence among the less independent members of the University. In Oxford the
University does not know the Ministry, nor the Ministry the University. The acts of the Government,
be it Liberal or Conservative, are freely discussed, and often powerfully resisted by the
academic constituencies, and the personal dislike of a Minister or Ministerial Councillor
could as little injure a professor or tutor as his favor could add one penny to his salary. But
these are minor matters. What gives their own peculiar character to the English Universities is a
sense of power and responsibility: power, because they are the most
respected among the numerous corporations in the country; responsibility,
because the higher education of the whole country has been committed
to their charge.

Their only master is public opinion as represented in Parliament, their only incentive their
own sense of duty. There is no country in Europe where Universities hold
so exalted a position, and where those who have the honour to belong
to them may say with greater truth Noblesse oblige.

I know the dangers of self-government, particularly where higher and more ideal interests are
concerned, and there are probably few who wish for a real reform in schools and Universities who have
not occasionally yielded to the desire for a Dictator, of a Bismarck
or a Falk.

But such a desire springs only from a momentary weakness and despondency; and no one who knows the
difference between being governed and governing one’ s self, would ever wish to descend from that higher
though dangerous position to a lower one, however safe and comfortable
it might seem.

No one who has tasted the old wine of freedom would ever really wish to exchange it for the new
wine of external rule.

Public opinion is sometimes a hard master, and majorities can be great tyrants to those who
want to be honest to their own convictions. But in the struggle of all against all, each individual
feels that he has his rightful place, and that he may exercise his
rightful influence.

If he is beaten, he is beaten in fair fight; if he conquers, he has no one else to thank. No doubt,
despotic Governments have often exercised the most beneficial patronage
in encouraging and rewarding poets, artists, and men of science.

But men of genius who have conquered the love and admiration of a whole nation are greater than
those who have gained the favor of the most brilliant Courts; and we know how some of the fairest reputations
have been wrecked on the patronage which they had to accept at the hands of powerful Ministers or
ambitious Sovereigns. But to return to Mill and his plea for Liberty.
Though I can hardly believe that, were he still among us, he would
claim a larger measure of freedom for the individual than is now accorded
to every one of us in the society in which we move, yet the chief cause
on which he founded his plea for Liberty, the chief evil which he
thought could be remedied only if society would allow more elbow-room
to individual genius, exists in the same degree as in his time— aye,
even in a higher degree.

The principle of individuality has suffered more at present than perhaps at any former period of history.
The world is becoming more and more gregarious, and what the French call our nature moutonnière, our tendency
to leap where the sheep in front of us has leapt, becomes more and more prevalent in politics,
in religion, in art, and even in science. M. de Tocqueville expressed his surprise how much more
Frenchmen of the present day resemble one another than did those of the last generation. The same
remark, adds John Stuart Mill, might be made of England in a greater degree.“ The modern régime
of public opinion,” he writes,“ is in an unorganized form what the
Chinese educational and political systems are in an organized; and
unless individuality shall be able successfully to assert itself against
this yoke, Europe, notwithstanding its noble antecedents and its professed
Christianity, will tend to become another China.” I fully agree with
Mill in recognizing the dangers of uniformity, but I doubt whether
what he calls the régime of public opinion is alone, or even chiefly,
answerable for it.

No doubt there are some people in whose eyes uniformity seems an advantage rather than a disadvantage.
If all were equally strong, equally educated, equally honest, equally rich, equally tall, or equally
small, society would seem to them to have reached the highest ideal. The same people admire
an old French garden, with its clipped yew-trees, forming artificial walls and towers and pyramids,
far more than the giant yews which, like large serpents, clasp the soil with their coiling roofs, and
overshadow with their dark green branches the white chalk cliffs of the Thames. But those French
gardens, unless they are constantly clipped and prevented from growing, soon fall into decay. As in nature,
so in society, uniformity means but too often stagnation, while variety is the surest sign of health and vigor. The
deepest secret of nature is its love of continued novelty. Its tendency, if unrestrained, is towards
constantly creating new varieties, which, if they fulfil their purpose,
become fixed for a time, or, it may be, forever; while others, after
they have fulfilled their purpose, vanish to make room for new and
stronger types.

The same is the secret of human society. It consists and lives in individuals, each meant to be
different from all the others, and to contribute his own peculiar share to the common wealth.
As no tree is like any other tree, and no leaf on the same tree like any other leaf, no human being
is, or is meant to be, exactly like any other human being. It is in this endless, and to us inconceivable,
variety of human souls that the deepest purpose of human life is to be realized; and the more
society fulfils that purpose, the more its allows free scope for the development of every individual
germ, the richer will be the harvest in no distant future.

Such is the mystery of individuality that I do not wonder if even those philosophers who, like
Mill, confine the use of the word sacred within the very smallest compass, see in each individual
soul something sacred, something to be revered, even where we cannot understand it, something
to be protected against all vulgar violence. Where I differ from Mill and his school is on the
question as to the quarter from whence the epidemic of uniformity springs which threatens the free
development of modern society. Mill points to the society in which we move; to those who are
in front of us, to our contemporaries. I feel convinced that our real enemies are at our back,
and that the heaviest chains which are fastened on us are those made, not by the present, but
by past generations— by our ancestors, not by our contemporaries. It is on this point, on the trammels
of individual freedom with which we may almost be said to be born into the world, and on the
means by which we may shake off these old chains, or at all events learn to carry them more
lightly and gracefully, that I wish to speak to you this evening. You need not be afraid that I am going
to enter upon the much discussed subject of heredity, whether in
its physiological or psychological aspects.

It is a favorite subject just now, and the most curious facts have been brought together of late
to illustrate the working of what is called heredity. But the more we know of these facts, the less we seem able
to comprehend the underlying principle. Inheritance is one of those numerous words which by their
very simplicity and clearness are so apt to darken our counsel.

If a father has blue eyes and the son has blue eyes, what can be clearer than that he inherited them?
If the father stammers and the son stammers, who can doubt but that it came by inheritance? If
the father is a musician and the son a musician, we say very glibly that the talent was inherited.
But what does inherited mean? In no case does it mean what inherited
usually means— something external, like money, collected by a father,
and, after his death, secured by law to his son.

Whatever else inherited may mean, it does not mean that. But unfortunately the word is there,
it seems almost pedantic to challenge its meaning, and people are always grateful if an easy word
saves them the trouble of hard thought. Another apparent advantage of the theory of heredity
is that it never fails. Sylburgius conjectured that it might be Aequanimitas.] He himself
refrained from all offences, [and committed no faults voluntarily:] but the offences of others,
particularly those of his wife, he endured, and neither investigated them nor punished them.
In case any person did anything good, he would praise him and use him for the service in which
he excelled, but about others he did not trouble himself, [saying: "It is impossible for one
to create such men as one wishes to have, but it is proper to employ those in existence for
that in which each of them may be useful to the commonwealth."] That all his actions were prompted
not by pretence but by real virtue is strikingly clear. He lived fifty-eight years, ten months,
and twenty-two days, and of this time he had spent considerable as assistant to the previous
Antoninus and had himself been emperor nineteen years and eleven days, yet from first to last
he remained the same and changed not a particle. So truly was he a good man, without any pretence
about him. [Sidenote:--35--] He was vastly helped by his education being an expert in rhetoric
and in philosophical argument. In the one he had Cornelius Fronto and Claudius Herodes for
teachers, and in the other, Junius Rusticus and Apollonius of Nicomedea, [Footnote: Since Apollonius
was really from Chalcedon, an error may here charged to Dio's or some one else's account.]
both of whom followed Zeno's school. As a result, great numbers pretended to engage in philosophy,
in order that they might be enriched by the emperor.

After all, however, he owed his great attainments chiefly to his natural disposition; for even
before he enjoyed the society of those men he was unflinchingly set upon virtue. While still
a boy he delighted all his relations, who were numerous and influential and wealthy, and was
loved by all of them. This, most of all, led Hadrian to adopt him into his family, and Marcus,
for his part, did not grow haughty [but, though young and a Caesar he dutifully played the
part of servant to Antoninus through all the latter's reign and ungrudgingly did honor to the
other men of eminence. Before going to see his father he used to greet the most worthy men
in the house near the Tiber where he lived, and in the very apartment where he slept; and all
this time, instead of wearing the attire allowed by his rank, he went dressed as a private
citizen. He visited many who were sick and invariably met his teachers at the proper time.
Dark garments were what he wore on going out when not in his father's company, and he never
used the attendant for himself alone. Upon being appointed leader of the knights he entered
the Forum with the rest, although he was Caesar. This shows how excellent was his own natural
disposition, though it was aided to the greatest degree by education.] He was always steeped
in Greek and Latin rhetorical and philosophical learning [though he had reached man's estate
and had hopes of becoming emperor].

[Sidenote:--36--] Before he was made Caesar he had a dream in which he seemed to have shoulders
and hands of ivory and to use them in all respects as he did his real limbs.

As a result of his great labors and studies he was extremely frail in body, yet from the very
start he enjoyed such good health that he used to fight in armor and on a hunt struck down
wild boars while on horseback. [And not only in his early youth but even later he wrote most
of his letters to his intimate friends with his own hand.] However, he did not meet the good
fortune that he deserved, for he was not strong [in body] and was involved in the greatest
variety of troubles throughout practically the whole period that he was ruler. But I am sure
I admire him all the more for this very reason, that amid unusual and extraordinary happenings
he both himself survived and preserved the empire. One thing in particular contributed to his
lack of happiness,--the fact that after rearing and educating his son in the best possible
way he was monstrously disappointed in him. This matter must now form the subject of our discourse,
for our history now descends from a kingdom of gold to one of iron and rust, [Footnote: Reading
[Greek: chatiomenaen] (Dindorf, following Reiske).] as affairs did for the Romans of that day.

DIO'S ROMAN HISTORY 73

About Commodus Augustus (chapter 1).

How Commodus made terms of peace with the Marcomani, the Quadi, and the Buri (chapters 2, 3).

Intrigues of Pompeianus against Commodus (chapter 4).

About the killing of the Quintilii (chapters 5-7).

About the war in Britain, and the captain, Ulpius Marcellus (chapter 8).

How Perennis, pretorian prefect, was slain (chapters 9, 10)

Statue erected to Victorinus (chapter 11).

Crimes and death of Cleander, a Caesarian (chapters 12, 13)

Fresh assassinations occur (chapter 15).

Commodus's titles (chapter 15).

About the spectacles presented by Commodus, and his insolent behavior (chapters 16-21).

Commodus is killed as the result of a conspiracy (chapter 22).

Dio begins to lay the foundations of his history (chapter 23).

Portents indicating the death of Commodus (chapter 24).

DURATION OF TIME.

Commodus Aug. (III), Antistius Burrus. (A.D. 181 = a.u. 934 = Second of Commodus).

C. Petronius Mamertinus, Cornelius Rufus. (A.D. 182 = a.u. 935 = Third of Commodus).

Commodus Aug. (IV), Aufidius Victorinus (II). (A.D. 183 = a.u. 936 = Fourth of Commodus).

L. Eggius Marullus, Cn. Papirius Aelianus. (A.D. 184 = a.u. 937 = Fifth of Commodus).

Maternus, Bradua. (A.D. 185 = a.u. 938 = Sixth of Commodus).

Commodus Aug. (V), Acilius Glabrio (II). (A.D. 186 = a.u. 939 = Seventh of Commodus). Crispinus,
Aelianus. (A.D. 187 = a.u. 940 = Eighth of Commodus).

C. Allius Fuscianus (II), Duillius Silanus (II). (A.D. 188 = a.u. 941 = Ninth of Commodus).

Iunius Silanus, Servilius Silanus. (A.D. 189 = a.u. 942 = Tenth of Commodus).

Commodus Aug. (VI), M. Petronius Septimianus. (A.D. 190 = a.u. 943 = Eleventh of Commodus).

Apronianus, Bradua. (A.D. 191 = a.u. 944 = Twelfth of Commodus).

Commodus Aug. (VII), P. Helvius Pertinax (II). (A.D. 192 = a.u. 945 = Thirteenth of Commodus,
to Dec. 31st).

[Sidenote: A.D. 180 (a.u. 933)] [Sidenote:--1--] This [Commodus] was not naturally wicked,
but was originally as free from taint as any man ever was. His great simplicity, however, and
likewise his cowardice made him a slave of his companions and it was through them that he first,
out of ignorance, missed the better life and then was attracted into licentiousness and bloodthirsty
habits, which soon became second nature. [And this, I think, Marcus clearly perceived beforehand.]
He was nineteen years old when his father died, leaving him many guardians, among whom were
numbered the best men of the senate. But to their suggestions and counsels Commodus bade farewell,
and, after making a truce with the barbarians, he hastened to Rome.

[Sidenote:--2--] [For the Marcomani by reason of the number of their people that were perishing
and the damage constantly being done to their farms no longer had either food or men in any
numbers. Thus they sent only two of their foremost representatives and two others that were
of inferior rank as envoys in regard to peace. And whereas he might easily have put an end
to their resistance, he so detested exertion and was so eager for the comforts of city life
that he made terms with them. Besides the conditions which his father had settled upon with
them new ones were now imposed requiring them to restore to him the deserters and the captives
that they took after this time and to contribute annually a stipulated amount of grain,--a
demand from which he subsequently released them. He obtained some weapons from them and also
soldiers, thirteen thousand from the Quadi and a smaller number from the Marcomani. In return
for this contingent he relieved them of the requirement of an annual levy. However, he issued
further orders that they should not assemble often nor in many parts of the country, but once
each month, in one place, in the presence of a Roman centurion; and again, that they should
not make war upon the Iazyges, the Buri, or the Vandili. On these terms a reconciliation was
effected and all the garrisons in their country beyond the detached border territory were abandoned
[Lacuna]]

[Sidenote: A.D. 181(?)] [Sidenote:--3--] [Commodus also granted peace to an embassy from the
Buri. Previously he would not have it, though often asked, because they were strong and because
it was not peace they wanted, but the securing of a respite for further preparations. Now,
however, since they were exhausted, he made terms with them and accepted hostages. From the
Buri he received back many captives and from the others [Footnote: The MS. is here very possibly
corrupt.] fifteen thousand, and he compelled the others [Footnote: The MS. is here very possibly
corrupt.] to take oath that they would never dwell in nor use as pasture forty stadia of their
territory, nearest to Dacia. The same (?) Sabinianus also reduced twelve thousand of the neighboring
Dacians who had been driven out of their own country and were on the point of aiding the rest.
[Footnote: The MS. is here very possibly corrupt.] He promised these that some land in our
Dacia should be given them.]

[Sidenote:--4--] Frequent plots were formed by various persons against Commodus [for he did
many reprehensible deeds] and he murdered great numbers both of men and of women, some openly
and some by secret poison,--in a word, practically all those who had attained eminence during
his father's lifetime and his own. Exceptions were Pompeianus and Pertinax and Victorinus:
these for some reason unknown to me he did not kill. THIS AND WHAT FOLLOWS I STATE NOT ON THE
AUTHORITY OF ANOTHER'S TRADITION, BUT FROM MY OWN OBSERVATION. On coming to Rome he had a conference
with the senate, at which he talked a great deal of nonsense, one thing that he said in praise
of himself being that he had once on horseback saved the life of his father, who had fallen
into a deep mire. Of such a nature were his lofty pratings. [Sidenote: A.D. 182 (a.u. 935)]As
he was entering the hunting theatre, Claudius Pompeianus laid a snare for him. He held up a
sword in the narrow passage which served as an entrance and said: "See, this is what the senate
has sent you."

This man had taken as his spouse the daughter of Lucilla, but had intimate relations both with
the daughter herself and with the girl's mother; in this way he had become friendly with Commodus,
so that he was his companion at banquets and in the diversions of youth. Lucilla, who was neither
more respectable nor more continent than her brother Commodus, detested the girl's husband,
Pompeianus. It was for this reason that she persuaded the aforementioned to undertake the attack
upon Commodus, and she not only caused his destruction, but was herself detected and put out
of the way. Commodus killed also Crispina, because he was angry with her for some act of adultery.
Previous to their execution both women had keen banished to the island of Capreae.

There was a certain Marcia, mistress of Quadratus (one of the men murdered at this time) and
Eclectus, his cubicularius: the latter became also the cubicularius of Commodus, and the former,
first, the emperor's mistress and later the wife of Eclectus; and she beheld them also perish
by violence. The tradition is that she very much favored the Christians and did them many kindnesses,
as she was enabled to do through possessing all influence with Commodus.

Commodus killed also Julianus [Salvius, [Footnote: P. Salvius Julianus.] and Tarrutenius Paternus,
who was numbered among the exconsuls, and others with them; he furthermore put to death some
woman of the nobility. [Footnote: Vitrasia Faustina by name.] Yet Julianus after the death
of Marcus could at once have done anything at all that he pleased against him, since he possessed
great renown, was in charge of a large army, and enjoyed the devotion of his soldiers: and
he refused to make any rebellious move, both because of his own uprightness and because of
the good will that he bore to Marcus, though dead. And Paternus, if he had plotted against
Commodus, as he was accused of doing, could easily have murdered him while he himself still
commanded the Pretorians; but he had not done it.]

The emperor murdered likewise Condianus and Maximus Quintilius; for they had a great reputation
on account of education and military ability and fraternal harmony and wealth. Their notable
talents led to the suspicion that, even if they were not planning any hostile movement, still
they were not pleased with the state of affairs. Thus, even as they had lived together, so
they died together, and one child as well. They had exhibited the most striking example ever
seen of affection for each other, and at no time had they been divided, even in their political
offices. They had grown prosperous and exceedingly wealthy and were wont to govern together
and to assist each other in trying cases at law.

Sextus Condianus, son of Maximus, who surpassed the generality of men in character and education,
when be heard that sentence of death had been passed upon him, too, drank hare's blood (he
was at that time located in Syria); and after this he mounted a horse and purposely fell from
it. Then, as he vomited the blood (which was supposed to be his own), he was taken up in the
expectation of his immediate demise and conveyed into a dwelling. The man himself now disappeared
from view, but a ram's body was placed in a coffin, in his place and burned. Thereafter, by
constantly changing his appearance and clothing, he wandered about, now here, now there. And
when this story was reported (for it is impossible to conceal for a long time so weighty a
matter), there was hue and cry after him in every place, bar none. Many were punished in his
stead on account of their resemblance, and many, too, who were alleged to have shared his confidences
or to have received and hidden him. Several, moreover, who had perhaps never even seen him,
were deprived of their property. But no one knows whether he was really killed (though a great
number of heads purporting to be his were carried to Rome) or whether he made good his escape.

Some other person, after the death of Commodus, dared to assert that he was Sextus and to undertake
the recovery of his wealth and dignities. And he played the part well while many persons asked
him numbers of questions: when, however, Pertinax enquired of him something about Grecian affairs,
with which the real Sextus had been well acquainted, he suffered the greatest embarrassment,
not being able even to understand what was said. [So it was that nature had made him like Condianus
in form and practice like him in other ways, but he did not share in his education.]

[Sidenote:--7--] This matter came to my own ears, and another thing that I saw I shall now
describe. There is in the city of Mallus, in Cilicia, an oracle of Amphilochus, that gives
responses by means of dreams. It had given warning also to Sextus, in a way that he indicated
by a drawing. The picture that he put on a board represented a boy strangling two serpents
and a lion pursuing a fawn. I was with my father, then governor of Cilicia, and could not comprehend
what they meant until I learned that Sextus's brothers had been, as it were, strangled by Commodus
(who later emulated Hercules), just as Hercules, when an infant, is related to have strangled
the serpents sent against him by Juno: similarly, the Quintilii were hanged; I learned also
that Sextus was a fugitive and was being pursued by a more powerful adversary.

I should render my narrative unduly irksome, were I to set down carefully every single man
put to death by this ruler,--all that he despatched because of false information, because of
unjustified suspicions, because of notable wealth, because of distinguished family, because
of unusual education, or for any other excellence.

[Commodus displayed in Rome itself many marks of wealth and very many more, even, of love for
the beautiful. Indeed, he performed one or two acts of public benefit. Manilius, a kinsman
of Cassius, who had been secretary of his Latin letters and had possessed the greatest influence
with him, was caught after a flight, but the emperor would not listen to a word of his, though
he promised to lay a great deal of information, and burned all the conspirator's documents
without reading them.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 184 a.u. 937] [Sidenote:--8--] He had also some wars with the barbarians beyond
Dacia, in which Albinus and Niger, who later fought the emperor Severus, won fame, but the
greatest conflict was the one in Britain. When the tribes in the island, passing beyond the
wall that separated them from the Roman legions, proceeded to commit many outrages and cut
down a general, together with the soldiers that he had, Commodus was seized with fear and sent
Marcellus Ulpius against them. This man, who was temperate and frugal and always followed strict
military rules in regard to food and all other details when he was at war, became in course
of time haughty and arrogant. He was conspicuously incorruptible in the matter of bribes, but
was not of a pleasant or kindly nature. He showed himself more wakeful than any other general,
and, as he desired his associates also to be alert, he wrote orders on twelve tablets (such
as are made out of linden wood) [almost] every evening, and bade a man carry them to various
persons at various hours, that they, believing the general to be always awake, might not themselves
take their fill of sleep. Nature had made him able in the first place to go without sleep and
he had developed this faculty a great deal more by abstinence from food. [Of scarcely anything
did he eat his fill and] in order to avoid satisfying his hunger even with bread he sent to
Rome for the loaves: [this was not because he could not eat what was prepared in that region,
but] it was done with the purpose that the age of the article might prevent him eating ever
so little more than what was absolutely necessary. [His gums, which were sore, were easily
made to bleed by the dryness of the bread. And he made it his practice to affect sleeplessness
even more than was the case, that he might have a reputation for being always awake.] This
was the kind of man Marcellus was, who inflicted great damage upon the barbarians in Britain.
Later he narrowly escaped being destroyed by Commodus on account of his peculiar excellence,
but was, nevertheless, released.

[Sidenote: A.D. 185 (a.u. 938)] [Sidenote:--9--] Perennis, commander of the Pretorians after
Paternus, met destruction on account of a rebellion of the soldiers. For, since Commodus had
devoted himself to chariot-racing and licentiousness and paid scarcely any attention to matters
pertaining to the empire, Perennis was compelled to manage not only military affairs, but everything
else, and to preside over the government. The soldiers, accordingly, when anything did not
go to suit them, laid the blame upon Perennis and cherished anger against him.

The soldiers in Britain chose Priscus, a lieutenant, emperor. But he deprecated their action,
saying "I am as little suited for emperor as you are for soldiers."

The lieutenants in Britain had been rebuked for their turbulence (indeed, they had not become
quiet until Pertinax put a stop to their discord), and now they chose of their number fifteen
hundred javelin-slingers, whom they sent into Italy. They had approached Rome without meeting
any hindrance, when Commodus met them and enquired: "Why is this, fellow-soldiers? What does
your presence signify?" Their answer was: "We are here because Perennis is plotting against
you, and intends to make his son emperor." Commodus believed them, especially since Cleander
dwelt at length upon the point. (The latter was often prevented by Perennis from doing all
that he desired, and consequently entertained a bitter hatred for him). Therefore he delivered
the prefect to the soldiers of whom he was commander, and did not venture to despise fifteen
hundred men, though he had many times that number of Pretorians. So Perennis was abused and
struck down, and his wife and sister and two sons were also killed.

[Sidenote:--10--] Thus was he slain though he deserved a far different fate both on his own
account and for the interest of the entire Roman domain. Only, it may be remarked that his
fondness for office had been the chief cause of the ruin of his colleague Paternus. Privately
he was never remotely concerned about either fame or wealth, but lived a most incorruptible
and temperate life, and for Commodus he preserved his empire in entire safety. [For the emperor
wholly followed his amusements and gave himself over to chariot-driving and cared not a whit
for any political interests; nor, indeed, had he given his mind to the matter ever so zealously,
could he have accomplished aught by reason of his luxurious living and inexperience.]

And the Caesarians, having got rid of this man, with Cleander at their head entered upon every
form of outrage, selling all privileges, doing violence, plunging into licentiousness.

Commodus during most of his life was given to idleness and horses and battles of beasts and
of men. Aside from his performances at home he despatched many beasts in public and many men
on many occasions. With his own hands and without assistance he gave the finishing stroke to
five hippopotami at one time and to two elephants on separate days. Moreover, he killed rhinoceroses
and a camelopard. This is what I have to say in general with reference to his whole career.

[Sidenote:--11--] To Victorinus, prefect of the city, a statue was granted. [He died not as
the victim of a plot. At one time what might be called a loud rumor and many reports were circulating
in regard to his destruction] and, though Commodus frequently wished to get him out of the
way, he still kept putting it off and shrinking from the deed until the man grew very bold,
and one day approaching Perennis said: "I hear that you wish to kill me. Why then do you delay?
Why do you put it off, when you might do it this very day?" [But not even this caused him to
suffer any harm at the hands of any one else; it was a self-sought death that he suffered,
and the fact seems strange, inasmuch as he had been honored among the foremost men by Marcus
and in mental excellence and forensic eloquence stood second to none of his contemporaries.
Indeed, by mentioning two incidents in his history I shall reveal his whole character.]

Once, when he was governor of Germany, he at first attempted by private persuasion indoors
to induce his lieutenant not to accept bribes. As the latter would not listen to him, he mounted
the tribunal and [after bidding the herald proclaim him] took oath that he had never received
bribes and never would receive any. Next he bade his under-officer also take oath; and when
this person refused to perjure himself, he ordered him to be dismissed from office. [And later
as commandant of Africa he had an associate of similar character to the man just mentioned.
He did not, to be sure, treat him in the same way, but put him aboard a boat and sent him back
to Rome.] This is the kind of man Victorinus was.

[Sidenote:--12--] As for Cleander, who after Perennis possessed greatest influence, he had
been sold along with his fellow-slaves and had been brought to Rome along with them for the
purpose of carrying burdens. As time went on he attained such prominence that he slept before
the chamber of Commodus, married the emperor's concubine Damostratia, and put to death Saoterus
of Nicomedea (who had held the position before him) besides many others. Yet this victim had
possessed very great influence, so that the Nicomedeans obtained from the senate the right
of holding a series of games and of building a temple to Commodus. At any rate, Cleander, raised
to greatness by the power of Fortune, granted and sold senatorships. praetorships, procuratorships,
leaderships,--in a word everything. Some by expending all that they possessed had finally become
senators. It came to be said of Julius Solon (an exceedingly obscure man) that he had been
deprived of his property and banished to the senate. [Sidenote: A.D. 189 (a.u. 942)] Not only
did Cleander do this, but he appointed twenty-five consuls for one year,--something which never
occurred before or after. One of those consuls was Severus, who later became emperor. The man
obtained money, therefore, from every quarter and amassed more wealth than had ever yet belonged
to those nominated cubicularii. A great deal of it he gave to Commodus and his concubines and
a great deal of it he spent on houses, baths, and other works useful to individuals and to cities.

[Sidenote:--13--] This Cleander, who had soared to so exalted a height, himself fell suddenly
and perished in dishonor. It was not the soldiers that killed him, as they had Perennis, but
the populace. There occurred a real and pressing famine, which was increased to the utmost
severity by Papirius Dionysius, the grain commissioner, in order that Cleander, whose thefts
would seem as much responsible for it as any cause, might both incur hatred and suffer destruction
at the hands of the Romans. So it fell out. There was a horse-race on, and as the horses were
about to contend for the seventh time a crowd of children ran into the race course, at their
head a tall and sturdy maiden. As a result of what subsequently happened she was deemed by
people to have been a divinity. The children shouted many wild words of complaint, which the
people took up again and began to bawl anything that came into their heads. Finally, the throng
jumped down and started to find Commodus (who was then in the Quintilian suburb), invoking
many blessings on his head but many curses upon Cleander. The latter sent some soldiers against
them, who wounded and killed a few, but encouraged by their numbers and the strength of the
Pretorians they became still more urgent. They drew near to Commodus before information reached
him from any source of what was going on. Then the famous Marcia, wife of Quadratus, brought
him the news. And Commodus was so terrified,--he was always the veriest coward,--that he at
once ordered Cleander to be slain and also his child, who was in Commodus's hands to be reared.
The child was dashed to the earth and perished, and the Romans, taking the body of Cleander,
dragged it away and abused it and carried his head all about the city on a pole. They also
wounded some other men who had possessed great power during his ascendancy.

[Sidenote:--14--] Commodus, taking a respite from his lusts and sports, developed a taste for
blood and proceeded to compass the death of distinguished men. Among these was Julianus the
prefect, whom he used to embrace and caress in public and saluted as "father." Another was
Julius Alexander, who was executed for having brought down a lion by a lucky cast of his javelin
while on horseback. [Footnote: Boissevain suggests that the "Roman Hercules" perhaps feared
that Alexander might diminish his glory.] This victim, on becoming aware of the presence of
his assassins, murdered them by night and likewise put out of the way all his own enemies at
Emesa, his native town. After doing this he mounted a horse and started toward the barbarians;
and he would have escaped, had he not carried a favorite along with him. He was himself a most
excellent horseman, but he would not think of abandoning the lad, who was tired out, and so
when he was being overtaken he killed both the boy and himself. Dionysius, too, the grain commissioner,
met his death by the orders of Commodus.

Moreover, a pestilence, as great as any I know, took place, for it should be noted that two
thousand persons several times died in Rome on a single day. Many more, not merely in the capital
but throughout almost the entire empire, perished by the hands of scoundrels, who smeared some
deadly drugs on tiny needles, and, for pay, infected men with the poison by means of these
instruments. The same thing had happened before in the reign of Domitian. [Footnote: See Book
Sixty-seven, chapter 11.] But the death of these unfortunates was not regarded as of any importance.

[Sidenote: A.D. 190 (a.u. 943)] [Sidenote:--15--] Still, the effect of Commodus upon the Romans
was worse than that of all pestilences and all villanies. One feature was that whatever honors
they were wont to vote to his father out of pure regard they were compelled by fear and by
strict injunction to assign also to the son. He gave orders that Rome itself be called Commodiana,
the legions "Commodian," and the day on which this measure was voted "Commodiana." Upon himself
he bestowed, in addition to very many other titles, that of Hercules. Rome he termed "the Immortal,"
"the Fortunate," "the Universal Colony of the Earth" (for he wished it to seem a settlement
of his own). In his honor a gold statue was erected of a thousand pounds' weight, together
with a bull and a cow. Finally, all the months were likewise called after him, so that they
were enumerated as follows: Amazonian, Invincible, Fortunate, Pious, Lucius, Aelius, Aurelius,
Commodus, August, Herculean, Roman, Transcendent. For he had assumed these different names
at different times. "Amazonian" and "Transcendent," however, he applied exclusively to himself,
to indicate that in absolutely every respect he unapproachably surpassed all mankind. So extravagantly
did the wretch rave. And to the senate he would send a despatch couched in these terms: "Caesar
Imperator, Lucius Aelius Aurelius Commodus, Augustus, Pius, Beatus, Sarmaticus, Germanicus,
Maximus, Britannicus, Peacemaker of the World, Invincible, Roman Hercules, High Priest, Holder
of Tribunician Authority for the eighteenth term, Imperator for the eighth time, Consul for
the seventh time, Father of the Fatherland, to consuls, praetors, tribunes and the Commodian
Fortunate Senate, Greeting." Great numbers of statues were erected displaying him in the garb
of Hercules. And it was voted that his age should be called the "Golden Age" and that entries
to correspond with this should in every case be made in the records.

[Sidenote:--16--] Now this Golden One, this Hercules, this God (such was another designation
of his) one day in the afternoon rode suddenly from the suburbs with haste into Rome and conducted
thirty horse-races in two hours. These proceedings had much to do with his running short of
money. He was also fond of bestowing gifts and frequently presented the populace with one hundred
and forty denarii apiece. But most of his expenditures were for the objects that I have mentioned.
[So it was that neither his general income nor what was provided by Cleander (though incalculable
in amount) sufficed him, and he was compelled to bring charges against both women and men,--charges
not serious enough for capital punishment but prolific in threats and terror.] Some of these
persons he murdered, to others he sold preservation in return for their property [and got something
from them by constraint under the pretence that it was a voluntary offering]. And finally on
his birthday he ordered us, our wives, and our children each to contribute two aurei [a year
as] a kind of first-fruits, and the senators in all the other cities five denarii per head.
[Of this, too, he saved not the smallest part, but spent it all disgracefully on beasts and
gladiators.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 192 (a.u. 945)] [Sidenote:--17--] In public he nowhere drove chariots except
sometimes on a moonless night. He became very desirous to play the character also in public,
but, being ashamed to be seen doing this, he kept it up constantly at home, wearing the Green
uniform. Beasts, moreover, in large numbers were slaughtered at his house and many also in
public. Again, he would contend as gladiator: (at home he killed a man in this way, and, in
pretending to shave others, instead of taking off the hairs he sliced off one man's nose, another's
ears, and some other feature of a third;) but in public his contests were [Footnote: It is
just barely possible that the original gave some different idea from "his contests were" (cp.
the text of Boissée).] minus the steel and human blood. Before entering the theatre he would
put on a cleeved tonic of silk, white interwoven with gold, and we greeted him standing there
in this attire. When he actually went in he donned a pure purple dress sprinkled with gold,
assuming also a similar chlamys of Greek pattern and a crown made of Indic gems and gold, and
carried such a herald's staff as Mercury does. The lion skin and club were carried before him
along the streets, and at the theatres were invariably placed on a gilded chair, whether he
was present or absent. He himself would enter the theatre in the garb of Mercury, and casting
off everything else begin his performance in simple tunic and unshod.

[Sidenote:--18--] On the first day he individually killed a hundred bears by shooting down
at them from the top of the elevated circle. The whole theatre had been divided up by some
diameters built in, which supported a circular roof and intersected each other, the object
being that the beasts, divided into four herds, might be more easily speared at short range
from any point. In the midst of the struggle he grew weary, and taking from a woman some sweet
wine cooled in a club-shaped cup drank it down at a gulp. At this both the populace and we
on the instant all shouted this phrase, common at drinking bouts: "Long life to you!"

Let no one think that I sully the dignity of history in noting down such happenings. In general
I should have preferred not to mention it, but since it was one of the emperor's acts and I
was myself present, taking part in everything seen and heard and spoken, I have judged it proper
to suppress none of the details, but to hand them down to the attention of those who shall
live hereafter, just as I should do in the case of anything else especially great and important.
And, indeed, all the remaining events that took place in my lifetime I shall polish and elaborate
more than earlier occurrences for the reason that my evidence is that of a contemporary and
I know no one else who has my ability at reducing notable things to writing that has studied
them so exhaustively as I.

[Sidenote:--19--] It was on the first day, then, that this took place. On the others he frequently
went down from the raised section to the bottom of the circle and slaughtered all the tame
animals that he approached, some of them also being led to him or brought before him in nets.
He also killed a tiger, a hippopotamus, and an elephant. After accomplishing this, he retired,
but at the conclusion of breakfast fought again as a gladiator. The form of fighting which
he practiced and the armor which he used was that pertaining to the so-called secutor: in his
right hand he held the shield and in his left the wooden sword. He prided himself very greatly
upon being left-handed. His antagonist would be some professional athlete, or, perhaps, gladiator,
with a cane; this was sometimes a man that the emperor himself challenged and sometimes one
that the people chose. In this and other matters he acted the same way as the other gladiators,
except that they go in for a very small sum, whereas Commodus had twenty-five myriads from
the gladiatorial fund given him each day. There stood beside him during the contest Aemilius
Laetus, the prefect, and Eclectus, his cubicularius. He went through a skirmish, and, of course,
conquered, and then, just as he was, he kissed them [Footnote: Supplying [Greek: ois] (after
Reimar).] with his helmet on. After this the rest did some fighting.--The first day he personally
paired all the combatants, either down below, where he wore all the attire of Mercury, including
a gilded wand, or else from his place on the elevated platform; and we took his proceeding
as an omen. Later he ascended his customary seat and from that point viewed the remainder of
the spectacle with us. Nothing more was done that resembled child's play, but great numbers
of men were killed. At one place somebody delayed about slaying and he fastened the various
opponents together and bade them all fight at once. At that the men so bound struggled one
against another and some killed those who did not belong to their group, since the numbers
and the limited space had brought them into proximity.

[Sidenote:--20--] That spectacle as here described lasted fourteen days. While the contests
were going on we senators invariably attended, along with the knights, save that Claudius Pompeianus
the elder never appeared, but sent his sons, remaining away himself. He chose rather to be
put to death for this than to behold the child of Marcus as emperor conducting himself so.--Besides
all the rest that we did, we shouted whatever we were bidden and this sentence continuously:
"Thou art lord, and thou art foremost, of all most fortunate: thou dost conquer, thou shalt
conquer; from everlasting, Amazonian, thou dost conquer!"

Of the rest of the people many did not even enter the theatre and some managed to steal out
quietly, for they were partly ashamed of what was being done and partly afraid. A story was
current that he would like to shoot a few of them as Hercules had the Stymphalian birds. This
story was believed, too, because once he had gathered all the men in the city who by disease
or some other calamity had lost their feet, had fastened some dragon's extremities about their
knees, and after giving them sponges to throw instead of stones had killed them with blows
of a club, on the pretence that they were giants.

[Sidenote:--21--] This fear was shared by all, both us and the rest. Here is another way in
which he menaced us senators,--an act which he certainly expected would be the death of us.
He had killed an ostrich, and cutting off its head he came toward where we were sitting. In
his left hand he held the spoils and in the right stretched aloft his bloody sword. He spoke
not a word, but with a grin wagged his head to and fro, intimating that he would subject us
to this same treatment. And many on the spot would have perished by the sword for laughing
at him (for it was laughter and not grief that overcame us), had I not myself chewed a laurel
leaf, which I got from my garland, and brought the rest who were sitting near me to munch similar
sprigs, so that in the constant motion of our jaws we might conceal the fact that we were laughing.
After this occurrence he raised our spirits, since before fighting again as a gladiator he
bade us enter the theatre in the equestrian garb and with woolen cloaks. (This was something
we never do when going into the theatre unless some emperor has passed away). And on the last
day his helmet was carried out by the gates through which the dead are taken out. That made
us all without exception think that he was surely about to meet his end in some way.

[Sidenote:--22--] And he did die (or rather was despatched) before a great while. Laetus and
Eclectus, displeased at the way he acted, and moreover filled with fear at the threats he uttered
against them when he was checked in any of his whims, formed a plot against him. Commodus was
anxious to slay both the consuls (Erucius Clarus and Sosius Falco) and on the first of the
month to issue as consul and secutor at once from the place where the gladiators are kept.
He had the first cell in their quarters, as if he were one of them. Let no one be incredulous
about this, for he even cut off the head of the Colossus and put one of his own there instead;
and then, having given it a club and placed a bronze lion at its feet so as to make it look
like Hercules, he inscribed, besides the titles that belonged to him, also this sentence: "First
of secutors to engage; the only left-handed fighter that has conquered twelve times"--I think
it is--"a thousand."

[Lacuna] was written by Lucius Commodus Hercules, and upon it was inscribed the well known
couplet, viz.: "Hercules I, Jove's son, Lord of Fair Fame, Not Lucius, howsoe'er constrained
thereto."

For these reasons Laetus and Eclectus, making Marcia their confidante, attacked him. At night
on the last of the year, when people were busy with merry-making, they had Marcia administer
poison to him in cooked beef. The wine he had consumed and his always immoderate use of the
baths kept him from succumbing at once, and instead he vomited; this caused him to suspect
the attempt and he uttered some threats. Then they sent Narcissus, an athlete, to him and had
this man strangle him in the midst of a bath. This was the end that Commodus met after ruling
twelve years, nine months, and fourteen days. He had lived thirty-one years and four months,
and with him the imperial house of the true Aurelii ceased.

[Sidenote:--23--] After this there occurred most violent wars and factional disturbances. The
compilation of facts in this work of mine has been due to the following chance. I had written
and published a book about the dreams and signs which caused Severus to expect the imperial
power; and he, happening to look at a copy that was sent him by me, wrote me a long and complimentary
acknowledgment. This letter I received about nightfall and soon after went to sleep. And in
my slumbers Heaven commanded me that a history be written. So it came about that I wrote the
narrative with which I am at this moment concerned. And because it pleased Severus himself
and other people very much, I then conceived a desire to compile a record of all other matters
of Roman interest. Therefore I decided no longer to leave that treatise as a separate composition,
but to incorporate it in this present history, in order that in one undertaking I might write
positively everything from the beginning as far as Fortune sees fit to permit. I have obtained
this goddess, it appears, as the guide of the conduct of my life, and therefore I am dependent
on her entirely: she gives me strength for my historical research when I am respectful and
subdued before her, and wins me back to work by means of dreams when I am discouraged and give
up the task: she grants me delightful hopes in regard to the future, that time will allow this
history to survive and never let its brightness be dimmed. To gather an account of everything
done by the Romans from the beginning until the death of Severus has taken me ten years, and
to arrange it in literary form twelve years more. The rest will be written as opportunity offers.

[Sidenote:--24--] Prior to the death of Commodus there were the following signs. Many ill-boding
eagles wandered about the Capitol uttering cries that portended naught of peace, and an owl
hooted there. [Sidenote: A.D. 191 (a.u. 944)] A fire, starting by night in some dwelling, laid
hold of the temple of Peace and spread to the stores of Egyptian and Arabian wares: then, leaping
to a great height, it entered the palace and burned a very large portion of it, so that the
documents belonging to the empire almost all perished. This as much as anything made it clear
that the injury would not stop in the City but extend over the entire civilized world. The
conflagration could not be extinguished by human hands, although great numbers of civilians
and great numbers of soldiers were carrying water and Commodus himself came from the suburbs
to cheer them on. Only after it had destroyed everything on which it had fastened did it spend
its force and reach a limit.

DIO'S ROMAN HISTORY 74

Pertinax, through the agency of Eclectus and Laetus, is created emperor by the soldiers and
by the senate (chapter 1).

Commodus is declared an enemy and is made a subject for jest (chapter 2).

Kindness of Pertinax toward Pompeianus, Glabrio, and the senators (chapter 3).

Omens portending supreme power for him (chapter 4).

Pertinax reforms pernicious practices: he sells Commodus's apparatus of licentiousness (chapter
5, 6).

His moderation with regard to his own family (chapter 7).

At the instigation of Laetus Falco the consul is slated for emperor (chapter 8).

Death of Pertinax Augustus (chapter 9, 10).

Flavius Sulpicianus and Julianus strive in outbidding each other for the sovereignty (chapter 11).

Julianus is made emperor contrary to the wishes of the senate and the Roman people (chapters
12, 13).

About the three leaders, Severus, Niger, Albinus (chapter 14).

Severus forms an alliance with Albinus and proceeds against Julianus (chapter 15).

Julianus, in the midst of laughable preparations, is killed by order of the senate (chapters
16, 17).

DURATION OF TIME, five months (from the Calends of January to the Calends of June), in which
the following were consuls:

1. Quintus Sosius Falco, C. Erucius Clarus.

2. Flavius Sulpicianus, Fabius Cilo Septiminus (from the Calends of March).

3. Silius Messala (from the Calends of May). (A.D. 193 = a.u. 946).

[Sidenote: A.D. 193 (a.u. 946)] [Sidenote:--1--] Pertinax was one of those men to whom no exception
can be taken, but he ruled only for an exceedingly brief space of time and was then put out
of the way by the soldiers. While the fate of Commodus was still a secret the party of Eclectus
and Laetus came to him and acknowledged [Footnote: Reading [Greek: emaenusan] (Dindorf, after
H. Stephanus).] what had been done. On account of his excellence and reputation they were glad
to select him. He, after seeing them and hearing their story, sent his most trustworthy comrade
to view the body of Commodus. When the man confirmed the report of the act, he was then conveyed
secretly into the camp and caused the soldiers consternation; but through the presence of the
adherents of Laetus and by means of promises [Footnote: Reading [Greek: epaeggeilato] (Dindorf,
after Bekker).] to give them three thousand denarii per man, he won them over. They would certainly
have remained content, had he not phrased the conclusion of his speech somewhat as follows:
"There are many unpleasant features, fellow-soldiers, in the present situation, but the rest
with your help shall be set right again." On hearing this they took occasion to suspect that
all the irregular privileges granted them by Commodus would be abolished. Though irritated,
they nevertheless remained quiet, concealing their anger.

On leaving the fortifications he came to the senate-house while it was still night, and after
greeting us (so far as a man might approach him in the midst of such a jostling throng) he
said in an impromptu way: "I have been named emperor by the soldiers; however, I don't desire
the office and am going to resign it this very day because of my age and health and the unpleasant
condition of affairs." This was no sooner said than we gave the selection our genuine approbation
and chose him in very truth; for he was noble in spirit and strong in body, except that he
walked a little lame.

[Sidenote:--2--] In this way was Pertinax declared emperor and Commodus an enemy, while both
senate and people denounced the latter long and savagely. They desired to hale away his body
and tear it limb from limb, as they did his images; but, when Pertinax told them that the corpse
had already been interred, they spared his remains but glutted their rage on his representations,
calling him all sorts of names. But "Commodus" or "emperor" were two that no one applied to
him. In stead, they termed him "wretch" and "tyrant," adding in jest titles like "the gladiator,"
"the charioteer," "the left-handed," "the ruptured man." To the senators, who had been excited
most by fear of Commodus, the crowd called out: "Huzza, huzza, you are saved, you have conquered!"
All the shouts that they had been accustomed to raise with a kind of rhythmic swing to pay
court to Commodus in the theatres they now chanted metamorphosed into the most ridiculous nonsense.
Since they had got rid of one ruler, and as yet had nothing to fear from his successor, they
made the most of their freedom in the intervening time and secured a reputation for frankness
by their fearlessness. They were not satisfied merely to be relieved of further terror, but
desired to show their courage by wanton insolence.

[Sidenote:--3--] Pertinax was a Ligurian from Alba Pompeia; his father was not of noble birth
and he himself had just enough literary training for ordinary needs. Under these conditions
he had become an associate of Claudius Pompeianus, through whose influence he had become a
commander in the cavalry, and had reached such a height that he now came to be emperor over
his former friend. And I at that time, during the reign of Pertinax, saw Pompeianus for the
first and last occasion. He was wont to live mostly in the country on account of Commodus [and
very seldom came down to the city], making his age and a disease of the eyes his excuse [and
he had never before, when I was present, entered the senate]. Moreover, after Pertinax he was
always ill. [During his reign he saw and was well [Footnote: Reading [Greek: erroto] (Dindorf).]
and advised.] Pertinax honored him mightily in every way and in the senate made him take the
seat beside him. [The same privilege he accorded also to Acilius Glabrio. This man, too, at
that period both heard and saw. It was to these, then, that he granted such surpassing honor.]
Toward us also he behaved in a very sociable way. He was easy of access, listened readily to
any one's request, and cordially answered as he thought right. Again, he gave us banquets marked
by moderation. Whenever he failed to invite us, he would send to various persons various foods,
even the least costly. For this the wealthy and vainglorious made great sport of him, but the
rest of us, who valued excellence above debauchery, approved his course.

[Public opinion regarding Pertinax was so different from that in the case of Commodus that
those who heard what had happened, suspecting that this story had been spread by Commodus to
test them, in several instances (governors of provinces being particularly involved) imprisoned
the men who brought the news. It was not that they did not wish it to be true, but they were
more afraid of seeming to have helped destroy Commodus than of not attaching themselves to
Pertinax. For under the latter one who even committed an error of this kind might still breathe
freely, but under the former not even a faultless person could feel safe.]

[Sidenote:--4--] While he was still in Britain, after that great revolt which he quelled, and
was being accorded praise on all sides, a horse named Pertinax won a race at Rome. It belonged
to the Greens and was picked as a winner by Commodus. So, when its partisans raised a great
shout, proclaiming "It is Pertinax," the others, their opponents, in disgust at Commodus likewise
prayed (speaking with reference to the man, not the horse): "Would that it might be so!" Later,
when this same horse by reason of age had given up racing and was in the country, it was sent
for by Commodus, who brought it into the hippodrome, gilded its hoofs, and adorned its back
with a gilded skin. And people suddenly seeing it cried out again: "It is Pertinax!" The very
expression was itself ominous, since it occurred at the last horse-race that year, and immediately
after it the sovereignty passed to Pertinax. A similar import was attached to the club, for
Commodus when about to fight on the final day had given it to Pertinax.

[Sidenote:--5--] It was in this way that Pertinax came into power. He obtained all the proper
titles and a new one for wishing to be democratic. That is, he was named Princeps Senatus,
according to ancient custom. He at once reduced to order everything that was previously irregular
and lacking in discipline. He showed in his capacity of emperor kindliness and uprightness,
unimpeachable management, and a most careful consideration for the public welfare. Pertinax
did everything, in fact, that a good emperor should do, and he removed the stigma of disgrace
from the memories of those who had been unjustly put to death; moreover, he took oath that
he would never sanction such a penalty. Immediately some recalled their relatives and some
their friends with tears and joy at once; formerly not even these exhibitions of emotion were
allowed. After this they exhumed the bodies, some of which were found entire and some in fragments,
according as decay and time had caused each of them to fare, and they gave them decent treatment
and deposited them in their ancestral tombs.

At this time the treasury was suffering from such lack of funds that only twenty-five myriad
denarii could be found. Pertinax therefore had difficulty in raising money from the images
and the arms, the horses and the trappings, and the favorites of Commodus, but gave to the
Pretorians all that he had promised and to the people one hundred denarii apiece. All the articles
that Commodus had gathered by way of luxury and for armed combats and for chariot driving were
exposed in the auction-room, the principal object sought being their sale, though there was
a further intention to show what were the late emperor's deeds and practices and to ascertain
who would purchase such articles.

[Sidenote:--6--] Laetus consistently spoke well of Pertinax and abused Commodus [relating all
the latter's evil deeds].

He [Footnote: Pertinax is meant.] summoned some barbarians that had received a large sum of
gold coin from Commodus in return for preservation of peace (the party was already on the road)
and demanded its return, saying: "Tell your people that Pertinax is ruler." The foreigners
knew his name very well as a result of the reverses they had suffered when he made a campaign
against them with Marcus.--Let me tell you another similar act of his intended to cast reflections
upon Commodus. He found that some filthy clowns and buffoons, disgusting in appearance, with
still more disgusting names and habits, had been made extremely wealthy by Commodus on account
of their wantonness and licentiousness; accordingly, he made public their titles and the amounts
they had acquired. The former caused laughter and the latter wrath and grief, for there were
some of them that possessed just the sums for which the emperor had slain numbers of senators.
However, Laetus did not remain permanently loyal to Pertinax, or perhaps we might even say
not for a moment. Since he did not get what he wanted, he proceeded to incite the soldiers
against him (as will be related).

[Sidenote:--7--] Pertinax appointed as prefect of the city his father-in-law, Flavius Sulpicianus,
a man who in any case deserved the position. Yet he was unwilling to make his wife Augusta
or his son Caesar, though we voted him permission. He rejected emphatically each proposition,
whether because he had not yet firmly rooted his own power, or because he did not choose to
let his unchaste consort sully the name of Augusta. As for his son, who was still a child,
he did not care to have him spoiled by the dignity [Footnote: Reading [Greek: ogkho] (Reimar)
for the MS. [Greek: horkho].] and the hope implied in the name before he should be educated.
Indeed, he would not even bring him up in the palace, but on the very first day of his sovereignty
he put aside everything that had belonged to him previously and divided it between his children--he
had also a daughter--and gave orders that they should live at their grandfather's house; there
he visited them occasionally in the capacity of father and not of emperor.

[Sidenote:--8--] Now, since the soldiers were no longer allowed to plunder nor the Caesarians
to indulge their licentiousness, they hated him bitterly. The Caesarians attempted no revolt,
because they were unarmed, but the Pretorian soldiers and Laetus formed a plot against him.
In the first place they selected Falco the consul for emperor, because he was prominent for
both wealth and family, and purposed to bring him to the camp while Pertinax was at the coast
investigating the corn supply. The latter, learning of the plan, returned in haste to the City,
and coming before the senate said: "You should not be ignorant, Conscript Fathers, that though
I found but twenty-five myriad denarii, I have distributed as much to the soldiers as did Marcus
and Lucius, to whom were left sixty-seven thousand five hundred myriads. It is the surprising
Caesarians who have been responsible for this deficiency of funds." Pertinax told a lie when
he said that he had bestowed upon the soldiers an equal amount with Lucius and Marcus; for
the one had given them about five thousand and the other about three thousand denarii apiece.
The soldiers and the Caesarians, who were present in the senate in great numbers, became mightily
indignant and muttered dangerously. But as we were about to condemn Falco [and were already
declaring him an enemy] Pertinax rose and cried out: "Heaven forbid that any senator, while
I am ruler, be put to death even for a just cause!" [And in this way Falco's life was saved,
and thenceforth he lived in the country, preserving a cautious and respectful demeanor.]

[Sidenote:--9--] But Laetus, using Falco as a starting point, destroyed many of the soldiers
on the pretence that the emperor ordered it. The rest, when they became aware of it, were afraid
that they should perish, too, and raised a tumult. Two hundred bolder than their mates invaded
the palace with drawn swords. Pertinax had no warning of their approach until they had got
upstairs. Then his wife rushed in and informed him what had happened. On learning this he behaved
in a way which one may call noble or senseless or however one pleases. For, whereas he might
probably have killed his assailants (since he had the night-guard and the cavalry by to protect
him and there were also many other people in the palace at the time), or might at any rate
have concealed himself and made his escape to some place or other, and might have closed the
doors of the palace and the other intervening doors, he, nevertheless, adopted neither alternative.
Instead, hoping to awe them by his presence and thus gain a hearing and persuade them to their
duty, he confronted the approaching band, which was already indoors. No one of their fellow
soldiers had barred the way, and the porters and other Caesarians so far from making any door
fast had opened absolutely all the entrances. The soldiers, seeing him, at first were [Sidenote:--10--]
abashed, save one, and rested their eyes on the floor and began thrusting their swords back
into their scabbards. But the one exception leaped forward, exclaiming: "This sword the soldiers
have sent you," and forthwith made a dash at him, striking him a blow. Then his comrades did
not restrain themselves and felled their emperor together with Eclectus. The latter alone had
not deserted him and defended him as far as he was able, even to the extent of wounding several.
Wherefore I, who still earlier believed that he had shown himself a man of worth, now thoroughly
admired him. The soldiers cut off the head of Pertinax and stuck it on a spear, glorying in
the deed. Thus did Pertinax, who undertook to restore everything in a brief interval, meet
his end. He did not comprehend, though a well trained man of affairs, that it is impossible
with safety to reform everything at once, but that the constitution of a government requires,
if anything does, both time and wisdom. He had lived sixty-seven years lacking four months
and three days. He had reigned eighty-seven days.

[Sidenote:--11--] When the fate of Pertinax was reported, some ran to their homes and some
to those of the soldiers, and paid heed to their own safety. It happened that Sulpicianus had
been despatched by Pertinax to the camp to set in order matters there, and he consequently
stayed there and took action looking to the appointment of an emperor. But there was a certain
Didius Julianus [of senatorial rank but eccentric character], an insatiate money-getter and
reckless spender, always anxious for a change in the government, who on account of the last
named proclivity had been driven out by Commodus to his own city, Mediolanum. He, accordingly,
on hearing of the death of Pertinax, hastily made his way to the camp, and standing near the
gates of the fort made offers to the soldiers in regard to the Roman throne. Then ensued a
most disgraceful affair and one unworthy of Rome. For just as is done in some market and auction-room,
both the city and her whole empire were bid off. The sellers were the people who had killed
their emperor, and the would-be buyers were Sulpicianus and Julianus, who vied to outbid each
other, one from within, the other from without. By their increases they speedily reached the
sum of five thousand denarii per man. Some of the guard kept reporting and saying to Julianus:
"Sulpicianus is willing to give so much; now what will you add?" And again to Sulpicianus:
"Julianus offers so much; how much more do you make it?" Sulpicianus would have won the day,
since he was inside and was prefect of the city and was the first to say five thousand, had
not Julianus raised his bid, and no longer by small degrees but by twelve hundred and fifty
denarii at once, which he offered with a great shout, indicating the amount likewise on his
fingers. Captivated by the difference and at the same time through fear that Sulpicianus might
avenge Pertinax (an idea that Julianus put into their heads) they received the highest bidder
inside and designated him emperor.

[Sidenote:--12--] So toward evening the new ruler turned his steps with speed toward the Forum
and senate-house. He was escorted by a vast number of Pretorians with numerous standards as
if prepared for action, his object being to scare both us and the populace and thereby secure
our allegiance. The soldiers called him "Commodus," and exalted him in various other ways.
As the news was brought to us each individually, and we ascertained the truth, we were possessed
with fear of Julianus and the soldiers, especially all of us who had [Lacuna] any favors for
Pertinax. [Footnote: A slight gap in the MS., where we should perhaps read: "all of us who
had done any favors for Pertinax or anything to displease Julianus" (Boissevain).] [Lacuna]
I was one of them, for I had been honored by Pertinax in various ways, owing to him my appointment
as praetor, and when acting as advocate for others at trials I had frequently proved Julianus
in the wrong on many points. Nevertheless, we put in an appearance, and partly for this very
reason, since it did not seem to us to be safe to hide at home, for fear that act in itself
might arouse suspicion. So when bath [Footnote: Reading [Greek: leloumenoi] (Reiske) for the
MS. [Greek: dedoulomenoi].] and dinner were both over, we pushed our way through the soldiers,
entered the senate-house, and heard the potentate deliver a characteristic speech, in the course
of which he said: "I see that you need a ruler, and I myself am better fitted than any one
else to direct you. And I should mention all the advantages I can offer, if you did not know
them perfectly and had not already had experience with me. Consequently, I felt no need of
being attended by many soldiers, but have come to you alone, that you may ratify what has been
given me by them." "I am here alone" is what he said, when he had surrounded the entire exterior
of the senate-house with heavily armed men and had a number of soldiers in the senate-house
itself. Moreover, he mentioned our being aware what kind of person he was, and made us both
hate and fear him.

[Sidenote:--13--] In this way he got his imperial power confirmed also by decrees of the senate
and returned to the palace. Finding the dinner that had been prepared for Pertinax he made
great fun of it, and sending out to every place from which by any means whatever something
expensive could be procured at that time of day he satisfied his hunger (the corpse was still
lying in the building) and then proceeded to amuse himself by dicing. Among his companions
was Pylades the dancer. The next day we went up to visit him, feigning in looks and behavior
much that we did not feel, so as not to let our grief be detected. The populace, however, openly
frowned upon the affair, spoke its mind as much at it pleased, and was ready to do what it
could. Finally, when he came to the senate-house and was about to sacrifice to Janus before
the entrance, all bawled out as if by preconcerted arrangement, terming him empire-plunderer
and parricide. He affected not to be angry and promised them some money, whereupon they grew
indignant at the implication that they could be bribed and all cried out together: "We don't
want it, we won't take it!" The surrounding buildings echoed back the shout in a way to make
one shudder. When Julianus had heard their response, he could endure it no longer, but ordered
that those who stood nearest should be slain. That excited the populace a great deal more,
and it did not cease expressing its longing for Pertinax or its abuse of Julianus, its invocations
of the gods or its curses upon the soldiers. Though many were wounded and killed in many parts
of the city, they continued to resist and finally seized weapons and made a rush into the hippodrome.
There they spent the night and the ensuing day without food or drink, calling upon the remainder
of the soldiery (especially Pescennius Niger and his followers in Syria) with prayers for assistance.
Later, feeling the effects of their outcries and fasting and loss of sleep, they separated
and kept quiet, awaiting the hoped for deliverance from abroad.

  "I do not assist the populace: for it has not called upon me."

[Sidenote:--14--] Julianus after seizing the power in this way managed affairs in a servile
fashion, paying court to the senate as well as to men of any influence. Sometimes he made offers,
again he bestowed gifts, and he laughed and sported with anybody and everybody. He was constantly
going to the theatre and kept getting up banquets: in fine, he left nothing undone to win our
favor. However, he was not trusted; his servility was so abject that it made him an object
of suspicion. Everything out of the common, even if it seems to be a kindness to somebody,
is regarded by men of sense as a trap.

The senate had at one time voted him a golden statue and he refused to accept it, saying: "Give
me a bronze one so that it may last; for I perceive that the gold and silver statues of the
emperors that ruled before me have been torn down, whereas the bronze ones remain." In this
he was not right: since 'tis excellence that safeguards the memory of potentates. And the bronze
statue that was bestowed upon him was torn down after he was overthrown.

This was what went on in Rome. Now I shall speak about what happened outside and the various
revolutions. There were three men at this time who were commanding each three legions of citizens
and many foreigners besides, and they all asserted their claims,--Severus, Niger, and Albinus.
The last-named governed Britain, Severus Pannonia, and Niger Syria. These were the three persons
darkly indicated by the three stars that suddenly came to view surrounding the sun, when Julianus
in our presence was offering the Sacrifices of Entrance in front of the senate-house. These
heavenly bodies were so very brilliant that the soldiers kept continually looking at them and
pointing them out to one another, declaring moreover that some dreadful fate would befall the
usurper. As for us, however much we hoped and prayed that it might so prove, yet the fear of
the moment would not permit us to gaze at them, save by occasional glances. Such are the facts
that I know about the matter.

[Sidenote:--15--] Of the three leaders that I have mentioned Severus [was] the shrewdest [in
being able to foresee the future with accuracy, to manage present affairs successfully, to
ascertain everything concealed as well as if it had been laid bare and to work out every complicated
situation with the greatest ease.] He understood in advance that after deposing Julianus the
three would fall to blows with one another and offer combat for the possession of the empire,
and therefore determined to win over the rival who was nearest him. So he sent a letter by
one of his trusted managers to Albinus, creating him Caesar. Of Niger, who was proud of having
been invoked by the people, he had no hopes. Albinus on the supposition that he was going to
share the empire with Severus remained where he was: Severus made all strategic points in Europe,
save Byzantium, his own and hastened toward Rome. He did not venture outside a protecting circle
of weapons, having selected his six hundred most valiant men in whose midst he passed his time
day and night; these did not once put off their breastplates until they reached Rome.

[This Fulvius [Footnote: The name, so far as can be discerned in the MS., may be Fulvius or
Flavius or Fabius. The position and import of the fragment are alike doubtful.] (?) too, who
when governor of Africa had been tried and condemned by Pertinax for rascality, avarice, and
licentiousness, was later elevated to the highest position by the same man, now become emperor,
as a favor to Severus.]

[Sidenote:--16--] Julianus on learning the condition of affairs had the senate make Severus
an enemy and proceeded to prepare against him. [In the suburbs he constructed a rampart, wherein
he set gates, that he might take up a position there outside and fight from that base.] The
City during these days became nothing more nor less than a camp, pitched, as it were, in hostile
territory. There was great turmoil from the various bodies of those bivouacked and exercising,--men,
horses, elephants. The mass of the population stood in great fear of the armed men [because
the latter hated them.] Occasionally laughter would overcome us. The Pretorians did nothing
that was expected of their name and reputation, for they had learned to live delicately. The
men summoned from the fleet that lay at anchor in Misenum did not even know how to exercise.
The elephants found the towers oppressive and so would not even carry their drivers any longer
[but threw them off also]. What caused us most amusement was his strengthening the palace with
latticed gates and strong doors. For, as it seemed likely that the soldiers would never have
slain Pertinax so easily if the building had been securely fastened, Julianus harbored the
belief that in case of defeat he would be able to shut himself up there and survive.

Moreover, he put to death both Laetus and Marcia, so that all the conspirators against Commodus
had now perished. Later Severus gave Narcissus also to the beasts, making the proclamation
(verbatim): "This is the man that strangled Commodus." The emperor likewise killed many boys
for purposes of enchantments, thinking that he could avert some future calamities, if he should
ascertain them in advance. And he kept sending man after man to find Severus and assassinate
him. [Vespronius Candidus, a man of very distinguished rank but still more remarkable for his
sullenness and boorishness, came near meeting his end at the hands of the soldiers.]

[Sidenote:--17--] The avenger had now reached Italy and without striking a blow took possession
of Ravenna. The men whom his opponent kept sending to him to either persuade him to turn back
or else block his approaches were won over. The Pretorians, in whom Julianus reposed most confidence,
were becoming worn out by constant toil and were getting terribly alarmed at the report of
Severus's proximity. At this juncture Julianus called us together and bade us vote for Severus
to be his colleague in office.

The soldiers were led to believe by communications from Severus that, if they would surrender
the assassins of Pertinax and themselves offer no hostile demonstration, they should receive
no harm; therefore they arrested the men who had killed Pertinax and announced this very fact
to Silius Messala, the consul. The latter assembled us in the Athenaeum, [Footnote: Located
on the Capitol, and established by Hadrian.] so called from the fact that it was a seat of
educational activity, and informed us of the news from the soldiers. We then sentenced Julianus
to death, named Severus emperor, and bestowed heroic honors upon Pertinax. So it was that Julianus
came to be slain as he was reclining in the palace itself; he had only time to say: "Why, what
harm have I done? Whom have I killed?" He had lived sixty years, four months, and the same
number of days, out of which he had reigned sixty-six days.

Dio, 74th Book: "Men of intelligence should neither begin a war nor seek to evade it when it
is thrust upon them. They should rather grant pardon to him who voluntarily conducts himself
properly, in spite Of any previous transgression, [Lacuna]

DIO'S ROMAN HISTORY

Severus takes vengeance on the Pretorians who were the assassins of Pertinax and enters the
city (chapters 1, 2).

Prodigies which portended the sovereignty to Severus (chapter 3).

Funeral procession which he superintended, in honor of Pertinax (chapters 4, 5).

War of Severus Augustus against Pescennius Niger (chapters 6-9).

The storming of Byzantium (chapters 10-14).

DURATION OF TIME.

Q. Sosius Falco, C. Erucius Clarus. (A.D. 193 = a.u. 946 = First of Severus, from the Calends
of June).

I. Septimius Severus Aug. (II), D. Clodius Septimius Albinus Caes. (A.D. 194 = a.u. 947 = Second
of Severus).

Scapula Tertullus, Tineius Clemens. (A.D. 195 = a.u. 948 = Third of Severus).

C. Domitius Dexter (II), L. Valerius Messala Priscus. (A.D. 196 = a.u. 949 = Fourth of Severus).

[Sidenote:--1--] Severus upon becoming emperor in the manner described punished with death
the | Pretorians | who had contrived the fate of Pertinax. Before reaching Rome he summoned
those remaining [Pretorians], surrounded them in a plain while they still did not know what
was going to happen to them, and having reproached them long and bitterly for their transgression
against their emperor he relieved them of their arms, took away their horses, and expelled
them from Rome. The majority reluctantly proceeded to throw away their arms and let their horses
go, and scattered uninjured, in their tunics. One man, as his horse refused to leave him, but
kept following him and neighing, slew both the beast and himself. To the spectators it seemed
that the horse also was glad to die.

When he had attended to this matter Severus entered Rome; he went as far as the gates on horseback
and in cavalry costume, but from that point on changed to citizen's garb and walked. The entire
army, both, infantry and cavalry, in full armor accompanied him. The spectacle proved the most
brilliant of all that I have witnessed, for the whole city had been decked with wreaths of
blossoms and laurel and besides being adorned with richly colored stuffs blazed with lights
and burning incense. The population, clad in white and jubilant, gave utterance to many hopeful
expressions. The soldiers were present, conspicuous by their arms, as if participating [Footnote:
Reading [Greek: pompeyontes] (Dindorf, after Bekker).] in some festival procession, and we,
too, were walking about in our best attire. The crowd chafed in their eagerness to see him
and to hear him say something, as if his voice had been somehow changed by his good fortune,
and some of them held one another up aloft to get a look at him from a higher position.

[Sidenote:--2--] Having entered in this style he began to make us rash promises, such as the
good emperors of old had given, to the effect that he would not put any senator to death. He
not only took oath concerning this matter, but what was of greater import he also ordered it
ratified by public decree, and passed an ordinance that both the emperor and the person who
helped him in any such deed should be considered an enemy,--themselves and also their children.
Yet he was himself the first to break the law and instead of keeping it caused the death of
many persons. Even Julius Solon himself, who framed this decree according to imperial mandate,
was a little later murdered. The emperor did many things that were not to our liking. [He was
blamed for making the city turbulent by the multitude of soldiers and he oppressed the commonwealth
by excessive expenditure of funds: he was blamed most of all for placing his hope of safety
in the strength of his army and not in the good-will of his companions.] But some found fault
with him especially because, whereas it had been the custom for the body-guard to be drawn
from Italy, Spain, Macedonia and Noricum only,--a plan which furnished men more distinguished
in appearance and of simpler habits,--he had abolished this method, [He ruled that any vacancies
should be filled from all the legions alike; this he did with the idea that he should find
them as a result more conversant with military practices and should be setting up warfare as
a kind of prize for the excellent. As a matter of fact he incidentally ruined all the most
reliable men of military age in Italy, who turned their attention to robbery and gladiatorial
fighting in place of the service that had previously claimed it.] and filled the city with
a throng of motley soldiers, most savage in appearance, most terrifying in their talk, and
most uncultured to associate with.

[Sidenote:--3--] The signs which led him to expect the sovereignty were these. When he had
been registered in the senate-house, it seemed to him in a vision that a she-wolf suckled him,
as was the case with Romulus. On the occasion of his marrying Julia, Faustina, the wife of
Marcus, prepared their bedchamber in the temple of Venus opposite the palace; and once, when
he was asleep, water gushed from his hand as from a spring; and when he was governor of Lugdunum,
the whole Roman domain approached and greeted him,--all this in dreams, I mean. At another
time he was taken by some one to a point affording a wide view; and as he gazed from it over
all the earth and all the sea he laid his fingers on them as one might on some instrument [Footnote:
Compare Plato, Republic, 399 C.] capable of all harmonies, and they answered to his touch.
Again, he thought that in the Roman Forum a horse threw Pertinax, who was already mounted,
but readily took him on its back. These things he had already learned from dreams, but in his
waking hours he had, while a youth, ignorantly seated himself upon the imperial chair. This
accident, taken with the rest, indicated rulership to him in advance.

[Sidenote:--4--] Upon attaining that condition he erected a heroum to Pertinax and commanded
that his name should be repeated in the course of all prayers and of all oaths. A gold image
of him was ordered brought into the hippodrome on a car drawn by elephants and three gilded
thrones for him conveyed into the remaining theatres. His funeral, in spite of the time elapsed
since his death, took place as follows:

In the Forum Romanum a wooden platform was constructed hard by the stone one, upon which was
set a building without walls but encompassed by columns, with elaborate ivory and gold decoration.
In it a couch of similar material was placed, surrounded by heads of land and sea creatures,
and adorned with purple coverlets interwoven with gold. Upon it had been laid a kind of wax
image of Pertinax, arrayed in triumphal attire. A well-formed boy was scaring the flies away
from it with peacock feathers, as though it were really a person sleeping. While it was lying
there in state, Severus, we senators, and our wives approached, clad in mourning garb. [Footnote:
Reading [Greek: penthikos] (Sylburgius, Boissevain et al)..] The ladies sat in the porticos,
and we under the open sky. After this there came forward, first, statues of all the famous
ancient Romans, then choruses of boys and men, intoning a kind of mournful hymn to Pertinax.
Next were all the subject nations, represented by bronze images, attired in native garb. And
the guilds in the City itself,--those of the lictors and the scribes and the heralds, and all
others of the sort,--followed on. Then came images of other men who were famous for some deed
or invention or brilliant trait. Behind them were the cavalry and infantry in armor, the race-horses,
and all the funeral offerings that the emperor and we and our wives, together with distinguished
knights and peoples and the collegia of the city, had sent. They were accompanied by an altar,
entirely gilded, the beauty of which was enhanced by ivory and Indic jewels. [Sidenote:--5--]
When these had gone by, Severus mounted the Platform of the Beaks and read a eulogy of Pertinax.
We shouted our approval many times in the midst of his discourse, partly praising and partly
bewailing Pertinax, but our cries were loudest when he had ceased. Finally, as the couch was
about to be moved, we all together uttered our lamentations and all shed tears. Those who carried
the bier from the platform were the high priests and the officials who were completing their
term of office, as well as any that had been appointed for the ensuing year. These gave it
to certain knights to carry. The rank and file of us went ahead of the bier, some beating our
breasts and others playing on the flute some dirge-like air; the emperor followed behind all,
and in this order we arrived at the Campus Martius. Here there had been built a pyre, tower-shaped
and triple pointed, adorned with ivory and gold together with certain statues. On its very
summit was lodged a gilded chariot that Pertinax had been wont to drive. Into this the funeral
offerings were cast and the bier was placed in it, and next Severus and the relatives of Pertinax
kissed the image. Our monarch ascended a tribunal, while we the senate, except officials, took
our places on the benches, that with safety and convenience alike we might view what went on.
The magistrates and the equestrian order, arrayed in a manner becoming their station, besides
the cavalry of the army and the infantry, passed in and out performing intricate evolutions,
both traditional and newly invented. Then at length the consuls applied fire to the mound,
which being done an eagle flew up from it. In this way was immortality secured for Pertinax
[who (although bodies of men engaged in warfare usually turn out savage and those given to
peace cowardly) excelled equally in both departments, being an enemy to dread, yet shrewd in
the arts of peace. His boldness, wherein bravery appears, he displayed towards foreigners and
rebels, but his clemency, wherewith is mingled justice, towards friends and the orderly elements
of society. When advanced to preside over the destinies of the world, he was never ensnared
by the increase of greatness so as to show himself in some things more subservient and in others
more haughty than was fitting. He underwent no change from the beginning to the very end, but
was august without sullenness, gentle without humiliating lowliness, prudent, yet did no injury,
just without inquisitorial qualities, a close administrator without stinginess, highminded,
but devoid of boasts.]

[Sidenote:--6--] Now Severus made a campaign against Niger. The latter was an Italian, one
of the knights, remarkable for nothing either very good or very bad, so that one could either
greatly praise or greatly censure him. [Wherefore he had been assigned to Syria by Commodus.]
He had as a lieutenant, together with others, Aemilianus, who [by remaining neutral and watching
the course of events] was thought to surpass all the senators of that day in understanding
and in experience of affairs; for he had been tested in many provinces. [These conditions and
the fact that he was a relative of Albinus had made him conceited.]

[Sidenote:--7--] [Niger was not in general a well-balanced man and though he had very great
abilities still fell into error. But at this time he was more than usually elated, so that
he showed how much he liked those who called him "the new Alexander"; and when one man asked,
"Who gave you permission to do this?" he pointed to his sword and rejoined, "This did." When
the war broke out Niger had gone to Byzantium and from that point conducted a campaign against
Perinthus. He was disturbed, however, by unfavorable omens that came to his notice. An eagle
perched upon a military shrine and remained there till captured, in spite of attempts to scare
it away. Bees made wax around the military standards and about his images most of all. For
these reasons he retired to Byzantium.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 194 (a.u. 947)] Now Aemilianus while engaged in conflict with some of the generals
of Severus near Cyzicus was defeated by them and slain. After this, between the narrows of
Nicaea and Cius, they had a great war of various forms. Some battled in close formation on
the plains; others occupied the hill-crests and hurled stones and javelins at their opponents
from the higher ground; still others got into boats and discharged their bows at the enemy
from the lake. At first the adherents of Severus, under the direction of Candidus, were victorious;
for they found their advantage in the higher ground from which they fought. But the moment
Niger himself appeared a pursuit in turn was instituted by Niger's men and victory was on their
side. Then Candidus caught hold of the standard bearers and turned them to face the enemy,
upbraiding the soldiers for their flight; at this his followers were ashamed, turned back,
and once more conquered those opposed to them. Indeed, they would have destroyed them utterly,
had not the city been near and the night a dark one.

The next event was a tremendous battle at Issus, near the so-called Gates. In this contest
Valerianus and Anullinus [Footnote: P. Cornelius Anullinus.] commanded the army of Severus,
whereas Niger was with his own ranks and marshaled them for war. This pass, the Cilician "Gates",
[Footnote: Compare Xenophon's Anabasis, I, 4, 4-5.] is so named on account of its narrowness.
On the one side rise precipitous mountains, and on the other sheer cliffs descend to the sea.
So Niger had here made a camp on a strong hill, and he put in front heavy-armed soldiers, next
the javelin slingers and stone throwers, and behind all the archers. His purpose was that the
foremost might thrust back such as assailed them in hand-to-hand conflict, while the others
from a distance might be able to bring their force into play over the heads of the others.
The detachment on the left and that on the right were defended by the sea-crags and by the
forest, which had no issue. This is the way in which he arranged his army, and he stationed
the beasts of burden close to it, in order that none of them should be able to flee in case
they should wish it. Anullinus after making all this out placed in advance the heavier part
of his force and behind it his entire light-armed contingent, to the end that the latter, though
discharging their weapons from a distance might still retard the progress of the enemy, while
the solidity of the advance guard rendered the upward passage safe for them. The cavalry he
sent with Valerianus, bidding him, so far as he could, go around the forest and unexpectedly
fall upon the troops of Niger from the rear. When they came to close quarters, the soldiers
of Sevents placed some of their shields in front of them and held some above their heads, making
a testudo, and in this formation they approached the enemy. So the battle was a drawn one for
a long while, but eventually Niger's men got decidedly the advantage both by their numbers
and by the topography of the country. They would have been entirely victorious, had not clouds
gathered out of a clear sky and a wind arisen from a perfect calm, while there were crashes
of thunder and sharp flashes of lightning and a violent rain beat in their faces. This did
not trouble Severus's troops because it was behind them, but threw Niger's men into great confusion
since it came right against them. Most important of all, the opportune character of this occurrence
infused courage in the one side, which believed it was aided by Heaven, and fear in the other,
which felt that the supernatural was warring against them; thus it made the former strong even
beyond its own strength and terrified the latter in spite of real power. Just as they were
fleeing Valerianus came in sight. Seeing him, they turned about, and after that, as Anullinus
beat them back, retreated once more. Then they wandered about, running this way and that way,
to see where they could break through.

[Sidenote:--8--] It turned out that this was the greatest slaughter to take place during the
war in question. Two myriads of Niger's followers perished utterly. The fact was indicated
also by the priest's vision. While Severus was in Pannonia, the priest of Jupiter saw in a
vision a black man force his way into the emperor's camps and meet his death by superior numbers.
And by turning the name of Niger into Greek people recognized that he was the one meant by
the "black" person mentioned. Directly Antioch had been captured (not long after) Niger fled
from it, making the Euphrates his objective point, for he intended to seek refuge among the
barbarians. His pursuers, however, overtook him; he was taken and had his head struck off.
This head Severus sent to Byzantium and caused to be reared on a cross, that the sight of it
might incline the Byzantines to his cause. The next move of Severus was to mete out justice
to those who had belonged to Niger's party. [Of the cities and individuals he chastised some
and rewarded others. He executed no Roman senator, but deprived most of them of their property
and confined them on islands. He was merciless in his search for money. Among other measures
he exacted four times the amount that any individuals or peoples had given to Niger, whether
they had done so voluntarily or under compulsion. He himself doubtless perceived the injustice
of it,] [Footnote: The MS. text is faulty, and the translation, ventured independently, corresponds
approximately to a suggestion by van Herwerden in Boissevain's edition.] but as he required
great sums, he paid no attention to the common talk.

[Sidenote:--9--] Cassius Clemens, a senator, while on trial before Severus himself, did not
hide the truth but spoke with such frankness as the following report will show:

"I," he said, "was acquainted with neither you nor Niger, but as I found myself in his part
of the world, I accepted the situation heartily, not with the idea of being hostile to you
but with the purpose of deposing Julianus. I have, then, committed no wrong in this, since
I labored originally for the same ends as you, nor should I be censured for failing to desert
the master whom I had once secured by the will of Heaven and for not transferring my allegiance
to you. You would not yourself have liked to have your intimate circle and fellow judges here
betray your cause and go over to him. Examine therefore not our bodies nor our names but the
events themselves. For in every point in which you condemn us you will be passing sentence
upon yourself and your associates. However secure you may be from conviction in any suit or
by any court finding, still, in the report of men, of which an eternal memory shall survive,
you will be represented as making against yourself the same charges as have led to punishment
[Footnote: Supplying, with Reiske, [Greek: soi [Lacuna] kolasthaenai].] in the case of others."--Severus
admired this man for his frankness and allowed him to keep half his property.

[Many who had never even seen Niger and had not cooperated with him were victims of abuse on
the charge that they had been members of his party.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 195 (a.u. 948)] [Sidenote:--10--] The Byzantines performed many remarkable
deeds both during the life and after the death of Niger. This city is favorably located with
reference both to the continents and to the sea that lies between them, and is strongly intrenched
by the nature of its position as well as by that of the Bosporus. The town sits on high ground
extending into the sea. The latter, rushing down from the Pontus with the speed of a mountain
torrent assails the headland and in part is diverted to the right, forming there the bay and
harbors. But the greater part of the water passes on with great energy past the city itself
toward the Propontis. Moreover, the place had walls that were very strong. Their face was constructed
of thick squared stones, fastened together by bronze plates, and the inner side of it had been
strengthened with mounds and buildings so that the whole seemed to be one thick wall and the
top of it formed a circuit betraying no flaws and easy to guard. Many large towers occupied
an exposed position outside it, with windows set close together on every side so that those
assaulting the fortification in a circle would be cut off between them. Being built at a short
distance from the wall and not in a regular line, but one here and another there over a rather
crooked route, they were sure to command both sides of any attacking party. Of the entire circuit
the part on the land side reached a great height so as to repel any who came that way: the
portion next to the sea was lower. There, the rocks on which it had been reared and the dangerous
character of the Bosporus were effective allies. The harbors within the wall had both been
closed with chains and their breakwaters carried towers projecting far out on each side, making
approach impossible for the enemy. And, in fine, the Bosporus was of the greatest aid to the
citizens. It was quite inevitable that once any person became entangled in its current he should
willy-nilly be cast up on the land. This was a feature quite satisfactory to friends, but impossible
for foes to deal with.

[Sidenote:--11--] It was thus that Byzantium had been fortified. The engines, besides, the
whole length of the wall, were of the most varied description. In one place they threw rocks
and wooden beams upon parties approaching and in another they discharged stones and missiles
and spears against such as stood at a distance. Hence over a considerable extent of territory
no one could draw near them without danger. Still others had hooks, which they would let down
suddenly and shortly after draw up boats and machines. Priscus, a fellow-citizen of mine, had
designed most of them, and this fact both caused him to incur the death penalty and saved his
life. For Severus, on learning his proficiency, prevented his being executed. Subsequently
he employed him on various missions, among others at the siege of Hatra, and his contrivances
were the only ones not burned by the barbarians. He also furnished the Byzantines with five
hundred boats, mostly of one bank, but some of two banks, and equipped with beaks. A few of
them were provided with rudders at both ends, stern and prow, and had a double quota of pilots
and sailors in order that they might both attack and retire without turning around and damage
their opponents while sailing back as well as while sailing forward.

[Sidenote:--12--] Many, therefore, were the exploits and sufferings of the Byzantines, since
for the entire space of three years they were besieged by the armaments of practically the
whole world. A few of their experiences will be mentioned that seem almost marvelous. They
captured, by making an opportune attack, some boats that sailed by and captured also some of
the triremes that were in their opponents' roadstead. This they did by having divers cut their
anchors under water, after which they drove nails into the ship's bottom and with cords attached
thereto and running from friendly territory they would draw the vessel towards them. Hence
one might see the ships approaching shore by themselves, with no oarsman nor wind to urge them
forward. There were cases in which merchants purposely allowed themselves to be captured by
the Byzantines, though pretending unwillingness, and after selling their wares for a huge price
made their escape by sea.

[Sidenote: A.D. 196 (a.u. 949)] When all the supplies in the town had been exhausted and the
people had been set fairly in a strait with regard to both their situation and the expectations
that might be founded upon it, at first, although beset by great difficulties (because they
were cut off from all outside resources), they nevertheless continued to resist; and to make
ships they used lumber taken from the houses and braided ropes of the hair of their women.
Whenever any troops assaulted the wall, they would hurl upon them stones from the theatres,
bronze horses, and whole statues of bronze. When even their normal food supply began to fail
them, they proceeded to soak and eat hides. Then these, too, were used up, and the majority,
having waited for rough water and a squall so that no one might man a ship to oppose them,
sailed out with the determination either to perish or to secure provender. They assailed the
countryside without warning and plundered every quarter indiscriminately. When dog-travelling
on that great lake in winter, the general plan is to travel from headland to headland. When
leaving one where perhaps we had slept or dined, all we had to do
was to turn Old Voyager's head in the right direction, and show him
the distant point to which we wished to go; and although it might
be many miles away, a surveyor's line could not be much straighter
than the trail our sleds would make under his unerring guidance.

I have gone into these details about this mode of travelling, because there is so little known
about it in the outside world. Doubtless it will soon become a thing of the past, as the Indians
are settling down in their Reservations, and, each tribe or band having a resident Missionary,
these long, toilsome journeys will not be essential.

The companions of my long trips were the far-famed Indian runners of the north. The principal
one of our party was called "the guide." To him was committed the responsibility of leading
us by the quickest and safest route to the band of Indians we wished to visit with the good news
of a Saviour's love. His place was in front of the dogs, unless the way happened to lead us
for a time over frozen lakes or well-beaten trails, where the dogs were able to go on alone, cheered
by the voice of their drivers behind. When the trail was of this description, the guide generally
strode along in company with one of the drivers.

As the greater part of my work was in the wild forest regions, there were many trips when the
guide was always at the front. Marvellously gifted were some of these men. The reader must
bear in mind the fact that there were no roads or vestiges of a path. Often the whole distance
we wished to go was through the dense unbroken forest. The snow, some winters, was from two
to four feet deep. Often the trees were clustered so closely together that it was at times difficult
to find them standing far enough apart to get our sleds, narrow as they were, between them. In
many places the under-brush was so dense that it was laborious work
to force our way through it.

Yet the guide on his large snowshoes was expected to push on through all obstructions, and
open the way where it was possible for the dog-sleds to follow. His chief work was to mark out
the trail, along which the rest of us travelled as rapidly as our loaded sleds, or wearied limbs,
and often bleeding feet, would allow.

Wonderfully clever and active were these guides in this difficult and trying work. To them it
made but little difference whether the sun shone brightly, or clouds obscured the sky. On
and on they pushed without hesitancy or delay. There were times when the sun's rays were reflected
with such splendour from the snowy wastes, that our eyes became so affected by the glare,
that it was impossible to travel by sunlight. The black eyes of the Indians seemed very susceptible
to this disease, which they call "snow blindness." It is very painful, as I know by sad experience.
The sensation is like that of having red-hot sand thrown on the eyeballs. Often my faithful
dog-drivers used to suffer so from it that, stoical as they naturally are, I have known them
to groan and almost cry out like children in the camp.

Once, in travelling near Oxford Lake, we came across a couple of Indians who were stone-blind
from this disease. Fortunately they had been able to reach the woods and make a camp and get
some food ready ere total blindness came upon them. We went out of our course to guide them
to their friends.

To guard against the attack of this disease, which seldom occurs except in the months of March
and April, when the increasing brightness of the sun, in those lengthening
days, makes its rays so powerful, we often travelled only during the
night-time, and rested in the sheltered camps during the hours of
sunshine.

On some of our long trips we have travelled eight nights continuously
in this way.

We generally left our camp about sundown.

At midnight we groped about as well as we could, aided by the light
of the stars or the brilliant auroras, and found some dry wood and
birch bark, with which we made a fire and cooked a midnight dinner.

Then on we went until the morning light came.

Then a regular camp was prepared, and breakfast cooked and eaten,
and the dogs were fed, instead of at night.

Prayers said, and ourselves wrapped up in our blankets and robes,
we slept until the hours of brilliant sunshine were over, when on
we went.

It always seemed to me that the work of the guides would be much more
difficult at night than during the daytime.

They, however, did not think so.

With unerring accuracy they pushed on. It made no matter to them whether the stars shone out
in all the beauty and brilliancy of the Arctic sky, or whether clouds
arose and obscured them all.

On the guide pushed through tangled underwood or dense gloomy forest,
where there were not to be seen, for days, or rather nights, together,
any other tracks than those made by the wild beasts of the forest.

Sometimes the wondrous auroras blazed out, flashing and scintillating
with a splendour indescribable.

At times the whole heavens seemed aglow with their fickle, inconstant
beauty, and then various portions of the sky were illumined in succession
by their ever-changing bars, or columns of coloured light.

Man's mightiest pyrotechnic displays dwarfed into insignificance
in the presence of these celestial visions.

For hours at a time have I been entranced amidst their glories. So bewildering were they at times
to me that I have lost all ideas of location, and knew not which
was north or south.

But to the experienced guide, although, like many of the Indians, he had a keen appreciation
of the beauties of nature, so intent was he on his duties that these changing auroras made no difference,
and caused him no bewilderment in his work. This, to me, was often a matter of surprise. They
are very susceptible in their natures, and their souls are full of poetry, as many of their
expressive and beautiful names indicate. To them, in their pagan state, those scintillating
bars of coloured light were the spirits of their forefathers, rank after rank, rushing out to
battle. Yet, while on our long trips I have had Indians as guides who became intensely interested
in these wondrous visions of the night, I never knew them to lose
the trail or become confused as to the proper route.

Very pleasant are my memories of different guides and dog-drivers. With very few exceptions they
served me loyally and well. Most of them were devoted Christian men. With me they rejoiced
to go on these long journeys to their countrymen who were still groping in the darkness, but
most of them longing for the light. Many of them were capable of giving exhortations or addresses;
and if not able to do this, they could, Paul-like, tell the story of their conversion, and
how they had found the Saviour.

My heart warms to those faithful men, my companions in many a storm, my bed-fellows in many a
cold wintry camp. Memory brings up many incidents where they risked their lives for me, and
where, when food was about exhausted, and the possibilities of obtaining additional supplies for days
were very poor, they quietly and unostentatiously put themselves on quarter rations, for days
together, that their beloved missionary might not starve.

Some of them have finished their course. Up the shining trail, following the unerring Guide, they
have gone beyond the auroras and beyond the stars right to the throne
of God.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

ON THE TRAIL WITH THE DOGS, TO FIELDS RIPE FOR THE REAPER-- THE PLACE-- THE TRIP-- THE WINTER
CAMP-- THE BITTER COLD-- ENDURING HARDNESS-- DEATH SHAKING HANDS WITH
US-- MANY DAYS ON THE TRAIL.

In January, 1869, I started on my first winter trip to Nelson River, to visit a band of Indians
there, who had never yet seen a missionary or heard the glad tidings of salvation. Their principal
gatherings were at the little trading post on the Burntwood River. Their hunting grounds extended
so very far north that they bordered on those of the Esquimaux, with whom, however, the Indians
have no dealings. Between these two races, the Indian and the Esquimaux, there is no affinity
whatever. They differ very materially in appearance, language, customs, and beliefs. Though they
will seldom engage in open hostilities, yet they are very rarely at peace with each other, and
generally strive to keep as far apart as possible.

The weather was bitterly cold, as the temperature ranged from thirty-five to fifty-five below
zero. Our course was due north all the way. The road we made, for there was none ahead of the
snow-shoe tracks of our guide, was a rugged, unbroken forest path. As the country through which
we passed is rich in fur-bearing animals, we saw many evidences of their presence, and occasionally
crossed a hunter's trail. We passed over twenty little lakes, averaging from one to thirty miles
in diameter. Over these our dogs drew us very fast, and we could indulge in the luxury of a
ride; but in the portages and wood-roads our progress was very slow, and generally all of
us, with our snow-shoes on, and at times with axes in hand, had to tramp on ahead and pack the
deep snow down, and occasionally cut out an obstructing log, that
our dogs might be able to drag our heavily laden sleds along.

Sometimes the trees were so thickly clustered together that it was almost impossible to get
our sleds through them. At times we were testing our agility by climbing over fallen trees,
and then on our hands and knees had to crawl under reclining ones. Our faces were often bleeding,
and our feet bruised. There were times when the strap of my snowshoes so frayed and lacerated my
feet that the blood soaked through the moccasins and webbing of the snowshoes, and occasionally
the trail was marked with blood. We always travelled in Indian file. At the head ran or walked
the guide, as the roads would permit. On these trips, when I got to understand dog-driving,
I generally followed next; and behind me were three other dog-trains, each with an Indian
driver.

Sometimes the snow was so deep that the four dog-drivers went ahead of the dogs, immediately behind
the guide, and, keeping in line with him, industriously packed down the snow, that the dogs might
the more easily drag the heavy sleds along.

The reason why our loads were so heavy was this. We were not in a country where, when night
overtook us, we could find some hospitable home to welcome us. Neither were we where there were
hotels or houses in which for money we could secure lodgings. We were in one of the most desolate
and thinly inhabited parts of the world, where those who travel long distances see no human
beings, except the Indian hunters, and these but rarely. Hence, in spite of all our efforts
to make our loads as light as possible, they would be heavy, although we were only carrying what
was considered absolutely essential.

We had to take our provisions, fish for our dogs, kettles, tin dishes, axes, bedding, guns,
extra clothing, and various other things, to meet emergencies that
might arise.

The heaviest item on our sleds was the fish for the dogs. Each dog was fed once a day, and then
received two good white fishes, each weighing from four to six pounds. So that if the daily
allowance for each dog averaged five pounds, the fish alone on each sled would weigh one hundred
and twenty pounds, when we began a trip of a week's duration. Then the bitter cold and the vigorous
exercise gave both the drivers and the missionary good appetites, and so the food provided for
them was of no insignificant weight.

We generally stopped about half an hour before sundown in order to have time, ere darkness enshrouded
us, to prepare our camp.

As we journeyed on we had observed that the guide who had been running along in front had been,
for the last half hour or so, carefully scanning the forest to the right and left. At length he
stopped, and as we came up to him we said, "Well, Tom, what is the
matter?"

His answer is, "Here is a capital place for our camp."

"Why do you think so?" we ask.

He replies, "Do you see those balsams? They will furnish us with a bed, and this cluster of dry,
dead small trees will give us the wood we need for our fire." So we quickly set to work to
prepare for our all-night stay in the woods.

The dogs were soon unharnessed, and seemed thankful to get their heads out of their collars.
They were never tied up, neither did they ever desert us, or take the back track for home. Some
of the younger ones often organised a rabbit hunt on their own responsibility, and had some
sport. The older and wiser ones looked around for the most cosy and sheltered spots, and there began
to prepare their resting-places for the night. They would carefully scrape away the snow until
they came to the ground, and there, with teeth and paws, would make the spot as smooth and
even as possible. They would then curl themselves up, and patiently wait until they were called
to supper. After unharnessing our dogs, our next work was with our axes, and there was a good
sharp one for the Missionary, to cut down some of the green balsams and dry dead trees. Then
using our snowshoes as shovels, from the place selected for our camp we soon scraped away the
snow, piling it up as well as we could to the right, left, and in
rear of where we were to sleep.

On the ground thus cleared of snow we spread out a layer of the balsam boughs, and in front,
where the wind would blow the smoke from us, we made up a large fire with the small dry trees
which we had cut down.

On this blazing log fire we put our two kettles, which we had filled with snow. When it melted
down, we refilled the kettles, until enough water was secured. In the large kettle we boiled
a piece of fat meat, of goodly size, and in the other we made our
tea.

On my first trip I carried with me a tin basin, a towel, and a cake of soap. At our first camp-fire,
when the snow had been melted in our kettle, I asked the guide to give me a little of the water
in my basin. Suspecting the purpose for which I wanted it, he said, "What are you going to do with
it?"

"Wash my face and hands," I replied.

Very earnestly he answered, "Please, Missionary, do not do so."

I was longing for a good wash, for I felt like a chimney-sweep. We had been travelling for hours
through a region of country where, in the previous summer, great forest fires had raged, leaving
many of the trunks of the trees charred and black. Against some of them we had often rubbed,
and to some of them, or their branches, we had had to cling as we went dashing down some of the
ravines. The result of these weary hours of toil amidst charred trunks was very visible, and
I rejoiced that an opportunity had arrived when I could wash off the sooty stuff. Great indeed
was my surprise to hear this strong protest on the part of my guide against my doing anything
of the kind.

"Why should I not wash?" I said, holding up my blackened hands.

"You must not let water touch you out in the open air, when it is so very cold as it is to-day,"
was his answer.

I was very inexperienced then, and not willing to lose my wash, which
I so much needed, I did not heed the warning. Having a blazing fire
before me and a good dry towel, I ventured to take the wash, and for
a minute or two after felt much better. Soon, however, there were
strange prickling sensations on the tops of my hands, and then they
began to chap and bleed, and they became very sore, and did not get
well for weeks. The one experiment of washing in the open air with
the temperature in the fifties below zero was quite enough. In the
following years I left the soap at home and only carried the towel.
When very much in need of a wash, I had to be content with a dry rub
with the towel. Mrs Young used to say, when I returned from some of
these trips, that I looked like old mahogany. The bath was then considered
a much-needed luxury.

For our food, when travelling in such cold
weather, we preferred the fattest meat we could obtain. From personal
experience I can endorse the statements of Arctic explorers about
the value of fat or oil and blubber as articles of food, and the natural
craving of the system for them. Nothing else seemed to supply the
same amount of internal heat. As the result of experience, we carried
the fattest kind of meat.

As soon as the snow was melted down in
the larger of our kettles, meat sufficient for our party was soon
put on and boiled. While it was cooking, we thawed out the frozen
fish for our dogs. Such is the effect of the frost that they were
as hard as stone, and it would have been cruel to have given them
in that state to the noble animals that served us so well. Our plan
was to put down a small log in front of the fire, so close to it that
when the fish were placed against it, the intensity of the heat would
soon thaw them out. The hungry dogs were ever sharp enough to know
when their supper was being prepared; and as it was the only meal
of the day for them, they crowded around us and were impatient at
times, and had to be restrained.

Sometimes, in their eagerness and
anxiety for their food-- for it often required a long time for the
fire to thaw the fishes sufficiently for us to bend them-- the dogs
in crowding one before the other would get into a fight, and then
there would be trouble. Two dogs of the same train very seldom fought
with each other. Yoke-fellows in toil, they were too wise to try to
injure each other in needless conflict. So, when a battle began, the
dogs quickly ranged themselves on the sides of their own comrades,
and soon it was a conflict of train against train. At first I thought
it cruel not to feed them more frequently, but I found, as all experienced
dog-drivers had told me, that one good meal a day was the best for
them. "For if", said he, "this is abominable, that he with his own hands should
have killed beasts, yet at Ostia yesterday or the day before one of your number, an old man
that had been consul, indulged publicly in play with a prostitute who imitated a leopard. 'He
fought as a gladiator,' do you say? By Jupiter, does none of you fight as gladiator? If not,
how is it and for what purpose that some persons have bought his shields and the famous golden
helmets?" At the conclusion of this reading he released thirty-five prisoners charged with
having taken Albinus's side and behaved toward them as if they had incurred no charge at all.
They were among the foremost members of the senate. He condemned to death twenty-nine men,
as one of whom was reckoned Sulpicianus, the father-in-law of Pertinax.

All pretended to sympathize with Severus but were confuted as often as a sudden piece of news
arrived, not being able to conceal the sentiments hidden in their hearts. When off their guard
they started at reports which happened to assail their ears without warning. In such ways,
as well as through facial expression and habits of behavior, the feelings of every one of them
became manifest. Some also by an excess of affectation only betrayed their attitude the more.

[Sidenote: LXXIV, 9, 5] Severus endeavored in the case of those who were receiving vengeance
at his hands [Lacuna] [Footnote: Some words appear to have fallen out at this point (so Dindorf).]
to employ Erucius Clarus [Footnote: C. Iulius Erucius Clarus Vibianus.] as informer against
them, that he might both put the man in an unpleasant position and be thought to have more
fully justified conviction in view of his witness's family and reputation. He promised Clarus
to grant him safety and immunity. But when the latter chose rather to die than to make any
such revelations, he turned to Julianus and persuaded him to play the part. For this willingness
he released him in so far as not to kill nor disenfranchise him; but he carefully verified
all his statements by tortures and regarded as of no value his existing reputation.

[Sidenote: LXXV, 5] [In Britain at this period, because the Caledonians did not abide by their
promises but made preparations to aid the Maeatians, and because Severus at the time was attending
to the war abroad, Lupus was compelled to purchase peace for the Maeatians at a high figure,
and recovered some few captives.]

[Sidenote: A.D. 198 (a.u. 951)] [Sidenote:--9--] The next thing Severus did was to make a campaign
against the Parthians. While he was busied with civil wars, they had been free from molestation
and had thus been able by an expedition in full force to capture Mesopotamia. They also came
very near reducing Nisbis, and would have done so, had not Laetus, who was besieged there,
preserved the place. Though previously noted for other political and private and public excellences,
in peace as well as in wars, he derived even greater glory from this exploit. Severus on reaching
the aforesaid Nisibis encountered an enormous boar. With its charge it killed a horseman who,
trusting to his own strength, attempted to run it down, and it was with difficulty stopped
and killed by many soldiers,--thirty being the number required to stop it; the beast was then
conveyed to Severus.

The Parthians did not wait for him but retired homeward. (Their leader was Vologaesus, whose
brother was accompanying Severus). Hence Severus equipped boats on the Euphrates and reached
him partly by marching, partly by sailing. The newly constructed vessels were exceedingly manageable
and well appointed, for the forest along the Euphrates and those regions in general afforded
the emperor an abundant supply of timber. Thus he soon had seized Seleucia and Babylon, both
of which had been abandoned. Subsequently he captured Ctesiphon and permitted his soldiers
to plunder the whole town, causing a great slaughter of men and taking nearly ten myriads alive.
However, he did not pursue Vologaesus nor yet occupy Ctesiphon, but as if the sole purpose
of his campaign had been to plunder it, he thereupon departed. This action was due partly to
lack of acquaintance with the country and partly to dearth of provisions. His return was made
by a different route, because the wood and fodder found on the previous route had been exhausted.
Some of his soldiers made their retreat by land along the Tigris, following the stream toward
its source, and some on boats.

[Sidenote: A.D. 199(?)] [Sidenote:--10--] Next, Severus crossed Mesopotamia and made an attempt
on Hatra, which was not far off, but accomplished nothing. In fact, even the engines were burned,
many soldiers perished, and vast numbers were wounded. Therefore Severus retired from the place
and shifted his quarters. While he was at war, he also put to death two distinguished men.
The first was Julius Crispus, a tribune of the Pretorians. The cause of his execution was that
indignant at the damage done by the war he had casually uttered a verse of the poet Maro, in
which one of the soldiers fighting on the side of Turnus against Aeneas bewails his lot and
says: "To enable Turnus to marry Lavinia we are meanwhile perishing, without heed being paid
to us." [Footnote: Two and a half lines beginning with verse 371 in Book Eleven of Virgil's
Aeneid.] Severus made Valerius, the soldier who had accused him, tribune in his place. The
other whom he killed was Laetus, and the reason was that Laetus was proud and was beloved by
the soldiers. They often said they would not march, unless Laetus would lead them. The responsibility
for this murder, for which he had no clear reason save jealousy, he fastened upon the soldiers,
making it appear that they had ventured upon the act contrary to his will.

[Sidenote: A.D. 200(?)] [Sidenote:--11--] After laying in a large store of food and preparing
many engines he in person again led an attack upon Hatra. He deemed it a disgrace, now that
other points had been subdued, that this one alone, occupying a central position, should continue
to resist. And he lost a large amount of money and all his engines except those of Priscus,
as I stated earlier, [Footnote: Compare Book Seventy-four, chapter 11.] besides many soldiers.
Numbers were annihilated in foraging expeditions, as the barbarian cavalry (I mean that of
the Arabians) kept everywhere assailing them with precision and violence. The archery of the
Atreni, too, was effective over a very long range. Some missiles they hurled from engines,
striking many of Severus's men-at-arms, for they discharged two missiles in one and the same
shot and there were also many hands and many arrows to inflict injury. They did their assailants
the utmost damage, however, when the latter approached the wall, and in an even greater degree
after they had broken down a little of it. Then they threw at them among other things the bituminous
naphtha of which I wrote above [Footnote: Compare the beginning of Book Thirty-six (supplied
from Xiphilinus).] and set fire to the engines and all the soldiers that were struck with it.
Severus observed proceedings from a lofty tribunal. [Sidenote:--12--] A portion of the outer
circuit had fallen in one place and all the soldiers were eager to force their way inside the
remainder, when Severus checked them from doing so by giving orders that the signal for retreat
be sounded clearly on all sides. The fame of the place was great, since it contained enormous
offerings to the Sun God and vast stores of valuables; and he expected that the Arabians would
voluntarily come to terms in order to avoid being forcibly captured and enslaved. When, after
letting one day elapse, no one made any formal proposition to him, he commanded the soldiers
again to assault the wall, though it had been built up in the night. The Europeans who had
the power to accomplish something were so angry that not one of them would any longer obey
him, and some others, Syrians, compelled to go to the assault in their stead, were miserably
destroyed. Thus Heaven, that rescued the city, caused Severus to recall the soldiers that could
have entered it, and in turn when he later wished to take it caused the soldiers to prevent
him from doing so. The situation placed Severus in such a dilemma that when some one of his
followers promised him that, if he would give him only five hundred and fifty of the Europeans,
he would get possession of the city without any risk to the rest, the emperor said within hearing
of all: "And where can I get so many soldiers?" (referring to the disobedience of the soldiers).

[Sidenote: A.D. 200 (a.u. 953)] [Sidenote:--13--] Having prosecuted the siege for twenty days
he next came to Palestine and sacrificed to the spirit of Pompey: and into [upper] Egypt [he
sailed along the Nile and viewed the whole country, with some small exceptions. For instance,
he was unable to pass the frontier of Ethiopia on account of pestilence.] And he made a search
of everything, including what was very carefully hidden, for he was the sort of man to leave
nothing, human or divine, uninvestigated. Following this tendency he drew from practically
all their hiding places all the books that he could find containing anything secret, and he
closed the monument of Alexander, to the end that no one should either behold his body any
more or read what was written in these books.

This was what he did. For myself, there is no need that I should write in general about Egypt,
but what I know about the Nile through verifying statements from many sources I am bound to
mention. It clearly rises in Mount Atlas. This lies in Macennitis, close to the Western ocean
itself, and towers far above all mountains, wherefore the poets have called it "Pillar of the
Sky." No one ever ascended its summits nor saw its topmost peaks. Hence it is always covered
with snow, which in summer time sends down great quantities of water. The whole country about
its base is in general marshy, but at this season becomes even more so, with the result that
it swells the size of the Nile at harvest time. This is the river's source, as is evidenced
by the crocodiles and other beasts that are born alike on both sides of it. Let no one be surprised
that we have made pronouncements unknown to the ancient Greeks. The Macennitae live near lower
Mauretania and many of the people who go on campaigns there also visit Atlas. It is thus that
the matter stands.

[Sidenote:--14--] Plautianus, who enjoyed the special favor of Severus and had the authority
of prefect, besides possessing the fullest and greatest influence on earth, had put to death
many men of renown and his own peers [Lacuna] [After killing Aemilius Saturninus he took away
all the most important prerogatives belonging to the minor officers of the Pretorians, his
subordinates, in order that none of them might be so elated by his position of eminence as
to lie in wait for the captaincy of the body-guards. Already it was his wish to be not simply
the only but a perpetual prefect.] He wanted everything, asked everything from everybody, and
got everything. He left no province and no city unplundered, but sacked and gathered everything
from all sides. All sent a great deal more to him than they did to Severus. Finally he sent
centurions and stole tiger-striped horses sacred [Footnote: Supplying [Greek: therous] (Reiske's
conjecture).] to the Sun God from the island in the Red Sea. This mere statement, I think,
must instantly make plain all his officiousness and greediness. Yet, on second thought, I will
add one thing more. At home he castrated one hundred nobly born Roman citizens, though none
of us knew of it until after he was dead. From this fact one may comprehend the extent alike
of his lawlessness and of his authority. He castrated not merely boys or youths, but grown
men, some of whom had wives; his object was that Plautilla his daughter (whom Antoninus afterward
married) should be waited upon entirely by eunuchs [and also have them to give her instruction
in music and other branches of art. So we beheld the same persons eunuchs and men, fathers
and impotent, gelded and bearded. In view of this one might not improperly declare that Plautianus
had power beyond all men, over even the emperors themselves. For one thing, his portrait statues
were not only far more numerous but also larger than theirs, and this not simply in outside
cities but in Rome itself, and they were at this time reared not merely by individuals but
by no less a body than the senate itself. All the soldiers and the senators took oaths by his
Fortune and all publicly offered prayer for his preservation.

[Sidenote:--15--] The person principally responsible for this state of affairs was Severus
himself. He yielded to Plautianus in all matters to such a degree that the latter occupied
the position of emperor and he himself that of prefect. In short, the man knew absolutely everything
that Severus said and did, but not a person was acquainted with any of Plautianus's secrets.
The emperor made advances to his daughter on behalf of his own son, passing by many other maidens
of high rank. He appointed him consul and virtually showed an anxiety to have him for successor
in the imperial office. Indeed, once he did say in a letter: "I love the man so much that I
pray to die before he does."]

[Lacuna] so that [Lacuna] some one actually dared to write to him as to a fourth Caesar.

Though many decrees in his honor were passed by the senate he accepted only a few of them,
saying to the senators: "It is through your hearts that you show your love for me, not through
your decrees."

At temporary stopping-places he endured seeing him located in superior quarters and enjoying
better and more abundant food than he. Hence in Nicaea (my native country) when he once wanted
a hammer-fish, large specimens of which are found in the lake, he sent to Plautianus to get
it. So if he thought at all of doing aught to diminish this minister's leadership, yet the
opposite party, which contained far greater and more brilliant members, saw to it that any
such plan was frustrated. On one occasion Severus went to visit him, when he had fallen sick
at Tyana, and the soldiers attached to Plautianus would not allow the visitor's escort to enter
with him. Moreover, the person who arranged cases to be pled before Severus was once ordered
by the latter in a moment of leisure to bring forward some case or other, whereupon the fellow
refused, saying: "I can not do this, unless Plautianus bid me." So greatly did Plautianus have
the mastery in every way over the emperor that he [frequently treated] Julia Augusta [in an
outrageous way,--for he detested her cordially,--and] was always abusing [her violently] to
Severus, and conducted investigations against her as well as tortures of noble women. For this
reason she began to study philosophy and passed her days in the company of learned men.--As
for Plautianus, he proved himself the most licentious of men, for he would go to banquets and
vomit meantime, inasmuch as the mass of foods and wine that he swallowed made it impossible
for him to digest anything. And whereas he made use of lads and girls in perfectly notorious
fashion, he would not permit his own wife to see or be seen by any person whomsoever, not even
by Severus or Julia [to say nothing of others].

[Sidenote:--16--] At this period there took place also a gymnastic [Footnote: Reading [Greek:
gymnikon] for [Greek: gynaikon], which is possibly corrupt.] contest, at which so great a multitude
assembled under compulsion that we wondered how the race-course could hold them all. And in
this contest Alamanni [Footnote: Reading [Greek: Alamannai] for [Greek: alomenai], which is
undoubtedly corrupt.] women fought most ferociously, with the result that jokes were made about
other ladies, who were very distinguished. Therefore, from this time on every woman, no matter
what her origin, was prohibited from fighting in the arena.

On one occasion a good many images of Plautianus were made (what happened is worth relating)
and Severus, being displeased at their number, melted down some of them. As a consequence a
rumor penetrated the cities to the effect that the prefect had been overthrown and had perished.
So some of them demolished his images,--an act for which they were afterward punished. Among
these was the governor of Sardinia, Racius Constans, a very famous man, whom I have mentioned,
however, for a particular reason. The orator who accused Constans had made this statement in
addition to others: "Sooner may the sky collapse than Plautianus suffer any harm at the hands
of Severus, and with greater cause might any one believe even that report, were any story of
the sort circulated." Now, though the orator made this declaration, and though moreover Severus
himself volubly affirmed it to us, who were helping him try the case, and stated "it is impossible
for Plautianus to come to any harm at my hands," still, this very Plautianus did not live the
year out, but was slain and all his images destroyed.--Previous to this a vast sea-monster
had come ashore in the harbor named for Augustus, and had been captured. A representation of
him, taken into the hunting-theatre, admitted fifty bears in its interior. Again, for many
days a comet star had been seen in Rome and was said to portend nothing favorable.

DIO'S ROMAN HISTORY 77

Festivities on account of Severus's decennial, the marriage of Antoninus and victories (chapter 1).

Death of Plautianus (chapters 2-4).

The friends and children of Plautianus are persecuted by Severus (chapters 5-9).

About Bulla Felix, a noble brigand (chapter 10).

Severus's campaign in Britain: an account of the Britons (chapters 11, 12).

After traversing the whole of Britain Severus makes peace (chapter 13).

How Antoninus desired to slay his father (chapter 14).

Death of Severus Augustus and a summary view of his life (chapters 15-17).

DURATION OF TIME.

L. Septimius Severus Aug. (III), M. Aur. Antoninus Aug. (A.D. 202 = a.u. 955 = Tenth of Severus,
from the Calends of June).

P. Septimius Geta, Fulvius Plautianus (II). (A.D. 203 = a.u. 956 = Eleventh of Severus).

L. Fabius Septimius Cilo (II), L. Flavius Libo. (A.D. 204 = a.u. 957 = Twelfth of Severus).

M. Aur. Antoninus Aug. (II), P. Septimius Geta Caesar. (A.D. 205 = a.u. 958 = Thirteenth of
Severus).

Nummius Albinus, Fulv. Aemilianus. (A.D. 206 = a.u. 959 = Fourteenth of Severus).

Aper, Maximus. (A.D. 207 = a.u. 960 = Fifteenth of Severus).

M. Aur. Antoninus Aug. (III), P. Septim. Geta Caesar (II). (A.D. 208 = a.u. 961 = Sixteenth
of Severus).

Civica Pompeianus, Lollianus Avitus. (A.D. 209 = a.u. 962 = Seventeenth of Severus).

M. Acilius Faustinus, Triarius Rufinus. (A.D. 210 = a.u. 963 = Eighteenth of Severus).

Q. Epid. Ruf. Lollianus Gentianus, Pomponius Bassus. (A.D. 211 = a.u. 964 = Nineteenth of Severus,
to Feb. 4th).

[Sidenote: A.D. 202 (a.u. 955)] [Sidenote:--1--] Severus to celebrate the first decade of his
reign presented to the entire populace accustomed to receive dole and to the soldiers of the
pretorian guard gold pieces equal in number to the years of his sovereignty. He took the greatest
delight in this achievement, and, as a matter of fact, no one had ever before given so much
to whole masses of people. Upon this gift five hundred myriads of denarii were expended. Another
event was the marriage between Antoninus, son of Severus, and Plautilla, the daughter of Plautianus.
The latter gave as much for his daughter's dowry as would have sufficed for fifty women of
royal rank. We saw the gifts as they were being carried through the Forum into the palace.
We were banqueted, likewise, in the meantime, partly in royal and partly in barbarian fashion
on whatever is regularly eaten cooked or raw, and we received other animal food also alive.
At this time, too, there occurred all sorts of spectacles in honor of Severus's return, the
completion of his first decade, and his victories. At these spectacles sixty wild boars of
Plautianus upon a given signal began a combat with one another, and there were slain (besides
many other beasts) an elephant and a crocotta. [Footnote: Hesychius says of this beast merely
that it is a quadruped of Aethiopia. Strabo calls it a cross between wolf and dog. Pliny (Natural
History, VIII, 21 (30)) gives the following description:

  "Crocottas are apparently the offspring of dog and wolf; they crush all
  their food with their teeth and forthwith gulp it down to be assimilated
  by the belly."

Again, of the Leucrocotta:

  "A most destructive beast about the size of an ass, with legs of a deer,
  the neck, tail and breast of a lion, a badger's head, cloven hoof, mouth
  slit to the ears, and, in place of teeth, a solid line of bone."

Also, in VIII, 30 (45), he says:

  "The lioness of Ethiopia by copulation with a hyaena brings forth the
  crocotta."

Capitolinus (Life of Antoninus Pius, 10, 9) remarks that the first Antoninus had exhibited
the animal in Rome. Further, see Aelian, VII, 22.] The last named animal is of Indian origin,
and was then for the first time, so far as I am aware, introduced into Rome. It has the skin
of lion and tiger mingled and the appearance of those animals, as also of the wolf and fox,
curiously blended. The entire cage in the theatre had been so constructed as to resemble a
boat in form, so that it would both receive and discharge four hundred beasts at once, [Footnote:
These cages were often made in various odd shapes and opened automatically. Compare the closing
sentences of the preceding book.] and then, as it suddenly fell apart, there came rushing up
bears, lionesses, panthers, lions, ostriches, wild asses, bisons (this is a kind of cattle
of foreign species and appearance),--the result being that altogether seven hundred wild and
tame beasts at once were seen running about and were slaughtered. For, to correspond with the
duration of the festival, seven days, the number of animals was also seven times one hundred.

[Sidenote:--2--] On Mount Vesuvius a great gush of fire burst out and there were bellowings
mighty enough to be heard in Capua, where I live whenever I am in Italy. This place I have
selected for various reasons, chief of which is its quiet, that enables me to get leisure from
city affairs and to write on this compilation. As a result of the Vesuvian phenomena it was
believed that there would be a change in the political status of Plautianus. In very truth
Plautianus had grown great and more than great, so that even the populace at the hippodrome
exclaimed: "Why do you tremble? Why are you pale? You possess more than the three." They did
not say this to his face, of course, but differently. And by "three" they indicated Severus
and his sons, Antoninus and Geta. Plautianus's pallor and his trembling were in fact due to
the life that he lived, the hopes that he hoped, and the fears that he feared. Still, for a
time most of this eluded Severus's individual notice, or else he knew it but pretended the
opposite. When, however, his brother Geta on his deathbed revealed to him the whole attitude
of Plautianus,--for Geta hated the prefect and now no longer feared him,--the emperor set up
a bronze statue of his brother in the Forum and no longer held his minister in equal honor;
indeed, the latter was stripped of most of his power. Hence [Sidenote: A.D. 203 (a.u. 956)]
Plautianus became violently enraged, and whereas he had formerly hated Antoninus for slighting
his daughter, he was now especially indignant, feeling that his son-in-law was responsible
for his present disgrace, and began to behave more harshly toward him. [Sidenote:--3--] For
these reasons Antoninus became both disgusted with his wife (who was a most shameless creature),
and offended at her father himself, because the latter kept meddling in all his undertakings
and rebuking him for everything that he did. Conceiving a desire to be rid of the man in some
way or other he accordingly had Euodus, his nurse, persuade a certain centurion, Saturninus,
and two others of similar rank to bring him word that Plautianus had ordered some ten centurions,
to whose number they also belonged, to kill both Severus and Antoninus; and they read a certain
writing which they pretended to have received bearing upon this very matter. This was done
as a surprise at the observances held in the palace in honor of the heroes, at a time when
the spectacle had ceased and dinner was about to be served. That fact was largely instrumental
in showing the story to be a fabrication. Plautianus would never have dared to impose such
a bidding upon ten centurions at once, certainly not in Rome, certainly not in the palace,
nor on that day, nor at that hour; much less would he have written it. Nevertheless, Severus
believed the information trustworthy because he had the night before seen in a dream Albinus
alive and plotting against him. [Sidenote:--4--] In haste, therefore, he summoned Plautianus,
as if upon some other business. These injuries need not be positive, for neglect is quite as strong
a grievance.

These individuals all spell negro with a capital and declare that they are proud of their race.
They parade its achievements-- and these are not small when enumerated all at once-- but they
avoid intimate association with the great mass of negroes. They are not at all democratic,
and in a negro state they would assume the privileges of an aristocracy as a matter of right.
It would seem that their demand for full political and social rights
for all negroes has for its basis not so much the welfare of the race
as a whole, as the possibility of obtaining for themselves special
privileges and positions of leadership.

They are not satisfied merely with full legal rights. In those States where there is no legal
discrimination in public places, their denunciation of social prejudice is bitter. They are
not content to take their chances with other groups but sometimes are illogical enough to demand
social equality enforced by law, though by this phrase they mean association with the whites merely
for themselves; they do not wish other negroes less developed than themselves to associate
with them.

In any city where there is any considerable number of this class, there is a section of negro society
in which social lines are drawn as strictly as in the most aristocratic white community. To
prove that the negroes are not emotional, these aristocrats among them are likely to insist upon
rigid formality in their church services and upon meticulous correctness in all the details
of social gatherings.

Since many of these individuals have a very large admixture of white blood, occasionally one
crosses the barrier and "goes white." Removal to a new town or city gives the opportunity
to cut loose from all previous associations and to start a new life. The transition is extremely
difficult, of course, and requires much care and discretion, but it has been made. The greater
part of them nevertheless remain negroes in the eyes of the law, however much they strive to
separate themselves in thought and action from the rest of their
kind.

It is this small class of "intellectuals" who were Booker T. Washington's bitterest enemies.
His theory that the negro should first devote himself to obtaining economic independence and should
leave the adjustment of social relations to the future was denounced as treason to the race.
Washington's opportunism was even more obnoxious to them than is the superior attitude of the
whites. They denounced him as a trimmer, a time-server, and a traitor, and on occasion they hissed
him from the platform. From their safe refuges in Northern cities, some negro orators and editors
have gone so far as to advocate the employment of the knife and the torch to avenge real or
fancied wrongs, but these counsels have done little harm for they have not been read by those
to whom they were addressed. Perhaps, indeed, they may not have been meant entirely seriously,
for the negro, like other emotional peoples, sometimes plays with words without realizing their full
import.

On the whole there is surprisingly little friction between the blacks
and the whites. One may live a long time in many parts of the South
without realizing that the most important problem of the United States
lies all about him. Then an explosion comes, and he realizes that
much of the South is on the edge of a volcano. For a time the white
South attempted to divest itself of responsibility for the negro. He went
home, and after drinking his fill of chilled wine, shattered the cup which had cost him five
myriads, and cutting his veins fell dead upon the fragments. [Sidenote:--6--] As for Saturninus
and Euodus, they were honored at the time but were later executed by Antoninus. While we were
engaged in voting eulogies to Euodus, Severus restrained us by saying: "It is disgraceful that
in one of your decrees there should be inscribed such a statement respecting a man that is
a Caesarian." It was not the only instance of such an attitude, but he also refused to allow
all the other imperial freedmen either to be insolent or to swagger; for this he was commended.
The senate once, while chanting his praises, uttered without reserve no less a sentiment than
this: "All do all things well since you rule well!"

Plautilla and Plautius, the children of Plautianus, were temporarily allowed to live, being
banished to Lipara; but in the reign of Antoninus they were destroyed, though they had been
existing in great fear and wretchedness and though their life was not even blessed by a goodly
store of necessities.

[Sidenote:--7--] The sons of Severus, Antoninus and Greta, felt as if they had got rid of a
pedagogue in Plautianus, and their conduct was from this time on irresponsible. They outraged
women and abused boys, they embezzled moneys and made friends of the gladiators and charioteers,
emulating each other in the similarity of their deeds and full of strife in their respective
rivalries. If one attached himself to any cause, the other would be sure to choose the opposite
side. Finally, they were pitted against each other in some kind of exercise with teams of ponies
and drove with such fierce opposition that Antoninus fell out of the two-wheeled car and broke
his leg. [During his son's sickness that followed this accident Severus neglected not one of
his duties, but held court and managed all affairs pertaining to his office. For this he was
praised. But he was blamed for murdering Plautianus Quintillus. [Footnote: This person's name
is properly M. Plautius Quintillus.] He executed also many of the senators, some of whom had
been accused before him, and made their defence and had been convicted. But Quintillus,] a
man of noblest birth, for a long term of years counted among the foremost members of the senate,
standing at the gates of old age, one who lived in the country, interfered in no one's business
and did naught amiss, nevertheless became the prey of sycophants and was put out of the way.
As he was near death he called for his funeral garments, which he had long since kept in readiness.
On seeing that they had fallen to pieces through lapse of time, he said: "Why did we delay
this!" And as he perfumed the place with burning incense, he remarked: "I offer the same prayer
as Servianus offered over Hadrian." [Footnote: Compare Book Sixty-nine, chapter 17.]--Besides
his death there were also gladiatorial contests, in which among other features ten tigers were
slaughtered at once.

[Sidenote:--8--] After this came the dénouement of the Apronianus affair,--a startling story
even in the hearing. He incurred censure because his nurse is said to have seen once in a vision
that he should enjoy sovereignty, and because he was believed to employ some magic to this
end. He was condemned while absent in his governorship of Asia. When the evidence taken in
his case was read to us, there was found written there this statement,--that one person in
charge of the investigation had enquired who had told the dream and who had heard it, and that
the man interrogated had said among other things: "I saw a certain baldheaded senator taking
a peep there." On hearing this we all became terror-stricken, for neither had the man spoken
nor Severus written any one's name. In their state of panic even those who had never visited
the house of Apronianus, and not only the baldheaded but those whose foreheads were indifferently
bare grew afraid. No one felt easy save those who had unusually thick hair. We all looked around
at such men, and a whisper ran about: "It's so-and-so. No, it's so-and-so." I will not conceal
how I was then affected, however absurd it may be. I felt with my hand to see whether I had
any hair on my head; and a number of others behaved in the very same way. We were very careful
to direct our gaze upon baldish persons as if we could thereby divert our own danger upon them.
This we did until it was further read that the particular baldhead in question wore a purple
toga. When this statement came out, we turned our eyes upon Baebius Marcellinus. He had been
aedile at the time and was extremely bald. So he stood up and coming forward said: "He will
certainly be able to point me out, if he has seen me." We commended this speech, the informer
was brought in while the senator stood by, and for a long time was silent, looking about for
the man to point out. Finally, following the direction of an almost imperceptible nod that
somebody gave, he said that this was he.

[Sidenote:--9--] Thus was Marcellinus convicted of a baldhead's peeping, [Footnote: The phrase
[Greek: phalakrou parakupseos] has a humorous ring to it, and I am inclined to believe, especially
considering the situation, that Dio had in his mind while writing this the familiar proverb
[Greek: honou parakupseos], a famous response given by a careless ass-driver, whose animal
being several rods in advance of its lagging master had stuck its head into an open doorway
and thereby scattered the nucleus of a promising aviary. The fellow was haled to court to answer
to a charge of contributory negligence and when some bystander asked him for what misdeed he
had been brought to that place, he rejoined with a great air of injured innocence: "For an
ass's peeping!"] and bewailing his fate he was conducted out of the senate-house. When he had
passed through the Forum, he refused to advance farther, but right where he was took leave
of his children, four in number, and uttered this most affecting speech: "There is only one
thing that I am sorry for, children; it is that I must leave you behind alive." Then he had
his head cut off before Severus learned even that he had been condemned.

Just vengeance, however, befell Pollenius Sebennus, who had preferred the charge that caused
his death. He was delivered by Sabinus to the Norici, for whom he had shown scant consideration
during his governorship of them, and went through a most disgraceful experience. We saw him
stretched on the ground, pleading piteously, and had he not obtained mercy, thanks to his uncle
Auspex, [Footnote: A. Pollenius Auspex.] he would have perished pitiably. This Auspex was the
cleverest imaginable man for jokes and chit-chat, for despising all mankind, gratifying his
friends, and making reprisals upon his enemy. Many bitter and witty epigrams of his spoken
to various people are reported, and many to Severus himself. Here is one of the latter. When
the emperor was enrolled in the family of Marcus, Auspex said: "I congratulate you, Caesar,
upon having found a father." This implied that up to this time his obscure origin had made
him as good as fatherless.

[Sidenote: A.D. 206-7(?)] [Sidenote:--10--] It was at this period that one Bulla, an Italian,
established a robber band of about six hundred men and for two years continued to plunder Italy
under the very noses of the emperors and of so great bodies of soldiers. Pursuit was instituted
by numerous persons, and Severus emulously followed his trail, but the fellow was never really
seen when seen, never found when found, never apprehended when caught. This was due to his
great bribes and his cleverness. He got wind of everybody that was setting out from Rome and
everybody that was putting into port at Brundusium, learning who and how many they were, and
what and how much they had with them. His general method was to take a part of what they had
and then let them go at once. Artisans, however, he detained for a time and after making use
of their skill dismissed them with something extra as a present. Once two of his robbers had
been captured and were to be given to beasts, whereupon the chief paid a visit to the keeper
of the prison, pretending that he was the governor of his native place (?) and needed some
such men, and in this way he secured and saved them. Again, he approached the centurion who
was charged with abolishing brigandage and in disguise accused his own self; he further promised,
if the centurion would accompany him, to deliver the robber to him. So, pretending that he
was leading him to Felix (this was another name of the chief), he brought him to a hill-encompassed
spot, suitable for ambuscade, and easily seized him. Later he assumed the garb of a magistrate,
ascended the tribunal, and having called the centurion caused his head to be shaved, and said:
"Take this message to your masters: 'Feed your slaves, if you want to make an end of brigandage.'"
Bulla had, indeed, a very great number of Caesarians, some who had been poorly paid and some
who had gone absolutely without pay.

Severus, informed of these events one at a time, was moved to anger to think that while having
other men win victory in warfare in Britain, he himself in Italy had proved no match for a
robber. At last he despatched a tribune from his body-guard with many horsemen and threatened
him with terrible punishments if he should not bring the culprit alive. Then this commander
ascertained that the chief was maintaining relations of intimacy with the wife of another,
and through the agency of her husband persuaded her on promise of immunity to cooperate with
them. As a result the elusive leader was arrested while asleep in a cave. Papinianus the prefect
asked him: "For what reason did you become a robber?" The other rejoined: "For what reason
are you a prefect?" And thereafter by solemn proclamation he was given to beasts. His robber
band broke up, for the entire strength of the six hundred lay in him.

[Sidenote: A.D. 208 (a.u. 961)] [Sidenote:--11--] Severus, seeing that his children were departing
from their accustomed modes of life and that his legions were becoming enervated by idleness,
set out on a campaign against Britain, though he knew that he should not return. He knew this
chiefly from the stars under which he had been born, for he had them painted upon the ceilings
of the two halls in the palace where he was wont to hold court. Thus they were visible to all,
save the portion which "regarded-the-hour" when he first saw the light (i.e., his horo-scope).
This he had not engraved in the same way in both the rooms.--He knew it also by the report
of the seers. And a thunderbolt struck a statue of his standing near the gates through which
he intended to march out and looking off along the road leading to his destination, and it
had erased three letters from his name. For this reason, [Footnote: The significance of this
happening is explained as follows. Taking the Greek form of Severus, namely [Greek: SEBAEROS]
and erasing the first three letters you have left [Greek: AEROS]= [Greek: AEROS]=heros, "hero."
When a thunderbolt substitutes the word "hero" for the emperor's name, the supposition naturally
arises that the ruler will soon be numbered among the heroes, that is, that he will cease to
exist as a mortal man.] as the seers indicated, he did not come back again but departed from
life two years after this. He took with him very great sums of money.

[Sidenote:--12--] There are two principal races of the Britons,--the Caledonians and the Maeatians.
The titles of the rest have all been reduced to these two. The Maeatians live near the cross
wall which cuts the island in two, and the Caledonians are behind them. "The sarcophagus, with
the remains, has been removed on board his Majesty's packet; where, it is understood, as soon as
some repairs on board are completed, an opportunity will be afforded of viewing it."-- From the
New York Evening Post of Aug. 11.

"The remains of the lamented Major André have (as our readers already
know) been lately removed from the spot where they were originally
interred in the year 1780, at Tappan, New York, and brought to England
in the Phæton frigate by order of his Royal Highness the Duke of
York.

Yesterday the sarcophagus was deposited in front of the cenotaph in Westminster Abbey, which
was erected by his late Majesty to the memory of this gallant officer. The reinterment took place
in the most private manner, the Dean of Westminster superintending in person, Major-Gen. Sir
Herbert Taylor attending on the part of his Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief and Mr. Locker,
Secretary to Greenwich Hospital, on behalf of the three surviving sisters of the deceased."-- From
newspaper of which the name and date have not been preserved.

G. C. With many thanks for the obliging replies to my Query for information
concerning this gentleman, I would desire to repeat it in a more specific
form.

Can none of your readers inform me whether there do not remain papers,& c. of or concerning Major
André, which might without impropriety be at this late day given to the world; and if so, by what
means access could be had thereto? Are there none such in the British Museum, or in the State Paper
Offices? My name and address are placed with the Editor of this journal, at the service of
any correspondent who may prefer to communicate with me privately. SERVIENS. Major André
occupied Dr. Franklin's house when the British army was in Philadelphia in 1777 and 1778. When
it evacuated the city, André carried off with him a portrait of the
Doctor, which has never been heard of since.

The British officers amused themselves with amateur theatricals at
the South Street Theatre in Southwark, then the only one in Philadelphia,
theatres being prohibited in the city.

The tradition here is, that André painted the scenes. They were{ 645} destroyed with the theatre by fire
about thirty-two years ago. M. E. Philadelphia.***** PASSAGE IN WHISTON.
(Vol. viii., pp. 244.
Afterward, being unable to walk, they were slain by their own friends to avoid capture, so
that nearly as many as fifty thousand died.

But the emperor did not desist till he had approached the extremity of the island. Here he
observed very accurately to how slight a degree the sun declined below the horizon [Footnote:
Compare Tacitus, Agricola, chapter 12 (two sentences, Dierum [Lacuna] affirmant).] and the
length of days and nights both summer and winter. Thus having been conveyed through practically
the whole of the hostile region,--for he was really conveyed in a covered chair most of the
way on account of his weakness,--he returned to [Sidenote: A.D. 210 (a.u. 963)] friendly territory,
first forcing the Britons to come to terms on condition that he should abandon a good part
of their territory.

[Sidenote:--14--] Antoninus also disturbed him and involved him in vain worry by his intemperate
life, by his evident intention to murder his brother if the chance should present itself, and
finally by plotting against his own father. Once he leaped suddenly out of his quarters, shouting
and bawling and feigning to have been wronged by Castor. This man was the best of the Caesarians
attending upon Severus, had been trusted with his opinions, and had been assigned the duties
of chamberlain. Certain soldiers with whom previous arrangements had been made hereupon gathered
and joined the outcry; but they were checked in short order, as Severus himself appeared on
the scene and punished the more unruly among them.

On another occasion both were riding to meet the Caledonians for the purpose of receiving them
and holding a conference about a truce, and Antoninus undertook to kill his father outright
with his own hand. They were going along on their horses, for Severus, although his feet were
rather shrunken [Footnote: Reading [Greek: hypotetaekos] (suggestion of Boissevain, who does
not regard Naber's emendation, Mnemosyne, XVI, p. 113, as feasible).] by an ailment, nevertheless
was on horseback himself and the rest of the army was following: the enemy's force, too, was
likewise a spectator. A family, for instance, might be called a γένος, the gens or clan was a γένος,
the nation (gnatio) was a γένος, the whole human kith and kin was a γένος; in fact, all that was
descended from common ancestors was a true γένος. There is no obscurity
of thought in this. Severus turned at their shout and saw the sword; however, he uttered
not a syllable but ascended the tribunal, finished what he had to do, and returned to the general's
tent. Then he called his son and Papinianus and Castor, ordered a sword to be placed within
easy reach, and upbraided the youth for having dared to do such a thing at all and especially
for having been on the point of committing so great a crime in the presence of all the allies
and the enemy. Finally he said: "Now if you desire to slay me and have done, put an end to
me here. You are strong: I am an old man and prostrate. If you have no objection to this, but
shrink from becoming my actual murderer, there stands by your side Papinianus the prefect,
whom you may order to put me out of the way. He will certainly do anything that you command,
since you are emperor." Though he spoke in this fashion, he still did the plotter no harm,
in spite of the fact that he had often blamed Marcus for not ending the life of Commodus and
that he had himself often threatened his son with this treatment. Such words, however, were
invariably spoken in a fit of anger: on this occasion he allowed his love of offspring to get
the better of his love of country; yet in doing so he simply betrayed his other child, for
he well knew what would happen. 

H. is right, however, in assuming that, with respect to that meridian, the decision must be purely
arbitrary. It is as though two men were to keep moving round a circle in the same direction,
with the same speed, and at diametrically opposite points; it must
be an arbitrary decision which would pronounce that either was in
advance, or in arrear, of the other.

  
  
  Regarding, then, the meridian of 180° as the neutral point, the most
  rational system, so far as British settlements are concerned, is
to reckon longitude both ways, from 0° to 180°, east and west from
Greenwich; and to regard all west longitude as in arrear of British
time, and all east longitude as in advance of it.

And this is the method practised by modern navigators.

It is not, however, in obedience to any preconceived system, but by pure accident, that our settlements
in Australia and New Zealand happen to be in accordance with this rule. The last-named country
is very close upon the verge of eastern longitude, but still it is within it, and its day
is rightly in advance of our day. But the first settlers to Botany Bay, in 1788, were actually
under orders to go out by Cape Horn, and were only forced by stress of weather to adopt the
opposite course by the Cape of Good Hope. Had they kept to their prescribed route, there cannot
be a doubt that the day of the week and month in Australia would now be a day later than it
is.

[Sidenote:--16--] He was slow-moulded but strong, though he eventually grew very weak from
gout: mentally he was very keen and very firm. He wished for more education than he got and
for this reason he was sagacious rather than a good talker. Toward friends not forgetful, to
enemies most oppressive, he was capable of everything that he desired to accomplish but careless
of everything said about him. Hence he gathered money from every source (save that he killed
no one to get it) [and met all necessary expenditures quite ungrudgingly. He restored very
many of the ancient buildings and inscribed upon them his own name to signify that he had repaired
them so as to be new structures, and from his private funds. Also he spent a great deal uselessly
upon renovating and repairing other places], erecting, for instance, to Bacchus and Hercules
a temple of huge size. Yet, though his expenses were enormous, he left behind not merely a
few myriad denarii, easily reckoned, but a great many. Again, he rebuked such persons as were
not chaste, even going to the extent of enacting certain laws in regard to adultery, with the
result that there were any number of prosecutions for that offence. When consul I once found
three thousand entered on the docket. But inasmuch as very few persons appeared to conduct
their cases, he too ceased to trouble his head about it. Apropos of this, a quite witty remark
is reported of the wife of Argentocoxus, a Caledonian, to Julia Augusta, when the latter after
the treaty was joking her about the free intercourse of her sex in Britain with men. Thereupon
the foreigner asserted: "We fulfill the necessities of nature in a much better way than you
Roman women. We have dealings openly with the best men, whereas you let yourselves be debauched
in secret by the vilest." This is what the British woman said.

[Sidenote:--17--] The following is the style of life that Severus led in time of peace. He
was sure to be doing something before dawn, while it was still night, and after this he would
go to walk, telling and hearing of the interests of the empire. Then he held court, and separately
(unless there were some great festival); and indeed, he did this very well. Those on trial
were allowed plenty of water [Footnote: The water-clock again. Compare Book Seventy-one, chapter
6.] and he granted us, his coadjutors, full liberty to speak.--He continued to preside till
noonday. After that he went riding as much as he could. Next he took some kind of exercise
and a bath. He then consumed a not meagre lunch, either by himself or with his children. Next,
as a rule, he enjoyed a nap. Later he rose, attended to his remaining duties of administration,
and while walking about occupied himself with discussions of both Greek and Latin lore. Then,
toward evening, he would bathe again and dine with his attendants. Very seldom did he have
any outsider to dinner and only on days when it was quite unavoidable did he arrange expensive
banquets.--He lived sixty-five years, nine months, and twenty-five days, for he was born on
the eleventh of April. Of this he had ruled seventeen years, eight months and three days. In
fine, he showed himself so active that even expiring he gasped: "Come, give it to us, if we
have anything to do!"

