Landbobyn was a wretched hamlet on the banks of a stream, with a few cleared fields about it.
As the sun had not yet set, we determined to push on to Kettbo, eight or ten miles further,
and engaged a boy to pilot us through the woods. The post-station was a miserable place, where
we found it impossible to get anything to eat. I sat down and talked with the family while
our guide recruited himself with a large dish of thick sour milk. "Why do you travel about
the earth?" asked his mother: "is it that you may spy out the poverty of the people and see
how miserably they live?" "No," said I, "it is that I may become acquainted with the people,
whether they are poor or not." "But," she continued, "did you ever see a people poorer than
we?" "Often," said I; "because you are contented, and no one can be entirely poor who does
not complain." She shook her head with a sad smile and said nothing.

Our guide poled us across the river in a rickety boat, and then plunged into the woods. He
was a tall, well grown boy of fifteen or sixteen, with a beautiful oval face, long fair hair
parted in the middle and hanging upon his shoulders, and a fine, manly, resolute expression.
With his jacket, girdle, knee-breeches, and the high crowned and broad brimmed felt hat he
wore, he reminded me strongly of the picture of Gustavus Vasa in his Dalecarlian disguise,
in the cathedral of Upsala. He was a splendid walker, and quite put me, old pedestrian as I
am, out of countenance. The footpath we followed was terribly rough; we stumbled over stock
and stone, leaped fallen trees, crossed swamps on tussocks of spongy moss, and climbed over
heaps of granite boulders: yet, while we were panting and exhausted with our exertions to keep
pace with him, he walked onward as quietly and easily as if the smoothest meadow turf were
under his feet. I was quite puzzled by the speed he kept up on such a hard path, without seeming
to put forth any extra strength. At sunset he pointed out some clearings on a hill side over
the tree tops, a mile or two ahead, as our destination. Dusk was gathering as we came upon
a pretty lake, with a village scattered along its hilly shore. The post-station, however, was
beyond it, and after some delay the boy procured a boat and rowed us across. Telling us to
go up the hill and we should find the inn, he bade us good bye and set out on his return.

We soon reached a gård, the owner whereof, after satisfying his curiosity concerning us by
numerous questions, informed us that the inn was still further. After groping about in the
dark for awhile, we found it. The landlord and his wife were sitting before the fire, and seemed,
I thought, considerably embarrassed by our arrival. There was no bed, they said, and they had
nothing that we could eat; their house was beyond the lake, and they only came over to take
charge of the post-station when their turn arrived. We were devoured with hunger and thirst,
and told them we should be satisfied with potatoes and a place on the floor. The wife's brother,
who came in soon afterwards, was thereupon despatched across the lake to bring coffee for us,
and the pleasant good-wife put our potatoes upon the fire to boil. We lit our pipes, meanwhile,
and sat before the fire, talking with our host and some neighbours who came in. They had much
to ask about America, none of them having ever before seen a native of that country. Their
questions related principally to the cost of living, to the value of labour, the price of grain,
the climate and productions, and the character of our laws. They informed me that the usual
wages in Dalecarlia were 24 skillings (13 cents) a day, and that one tunne (about 480 lbs.)
of rye cost 32 rigsdaler ($8.37-1/2). "No doubt you write descriptions of your travels?" asked
the landlord. I assented. "And then, perhaps, you make books of them?" he continued: whereupon
one of the neighbours asked, "But do you get any money for your books?"

The potatoes were finally done, and they, with some delicious milk, constituted our supper.
By this time the brother had returned, bringing with him coffee, a pillow, and a large coverlet
made entirely of cat-skins. A deep bed of hay was spread upon the floor, a coarse linen sheet
thrown over it, and, with the soft fur covering, we had a sumptuous bed. About midnight we
were awakened by an arrival. Two tailors, one of them hump-backed, on their way to Wermeland,
came in, with a tall, strong woman as postillion. The fire was rekindled, and every thing which
the landlord had extracted from us was repeated to the new comers, together with a very genial
criticism upon our personal appearance and character. After an hour or two, more hay was brought
in and the two tailors and the postillioness lay down side by side. We had barely got to sleep
again, when there was another arrival. "I am the post-girl," said a female voice. Hereupon
everybody woke up, and the story of the two foreign travellers was told over again. In the
course of the conversation I learned that the girl carried the post twenty English miles once
a week, for which she received 24 rigs ($6.25) annually. "It is a hard business," said the
hump-backed tailor. "Yes; but I am obliged to do it," answered the girl. After her departure
we were not again disturbed, and managed to get some sleep at last.

We all completed our toilettes in the same room, without the least embarrassment; and, with
a traveller's curiosity, I may be pardoned for noticing the general bodily cleanliness of my
various bed-fellows, especially as the city Swedes are in the habit of saying that the country
people are shockingly dirty. We had coffee, and made arrangements with the girl who had brought
the tailors to take us back in her cart. Our host would make no charge for the bed, and next
to nothing for our fare, so I put a bank-note in the hand of little Pehr, his only child, telling
him to take care of it, and spend it wisely when he grew up. The delight of the good people
knew no bounds. Pehr must hold up his little mouth to be kissed, again and again; the mother
shook us warmly by the hand, and the father harnessed his horse and started with us. May the
blessing of God be upon all poor, honest, and contented people!

Our road led between wooded hills to the Siljan-Forss, a large iron-foundry upon a stream which
flows into the Siljan Lake. It was a lovely morning, and our postillion who was a woman of
good sense and some intelligence, chatted with me the whole way. She was delighted to find
that we could so easily make ourselves understood. "When I saw you first in the night," said
she, "I thought you must certainly be Swedes. All the foreigners I saw in Stockholm had something
dark and cloudy in their countenances, but both of you have shining faces." She questioned
me a great deal about the sacred localities of Palestine, and about the state of religion in
America. She evidently belonged to the Läsare, who, she stated, were very numerous in Dalecarlia.
"It is a shame," said she, "that we poor people are obliged to pay so much for the support
of the Church, whether we belong to it or not. Our taxes amount to 40 rigs yearly, ten of which,
in Mora parish, go to the priest. They say he has an income of half a rigs every hour of his
life. King Oscar wishes to make religion free, and so it ought to be, but the clergy are all
against him, and the clergy control the Bondestånd (House of Peasants), and so he can do nothing."
The woman was thirty-one years old, and worn with hard labour. I asked her if she was married.
"No," she answered, with a deep sigh, looking at the betrothal-ring on her finger. "Ah," she
continued, "we are all poor, Sweden is a poor country; we have only iron and timber, not grain,
and cotton, and silk, and sugar, like other countries."

As we descended towards the post-station of Vik we caught a glimpse of the Siljan Lake to the
south, and the tall tower of Mora Church, far to the eastward. At Vik, where we found the same
simple and honest race of people, we parted with the postillioness and with our host of Kettbo,
who thanked us again in Pehr's name, as he shook hands for the last time. We now had fast horses,
and a fine road over a long wooded hill, which was quite covered with the lingon, or Swedish
cranberry. From the further slope we at last looked down upon Mora, at the head of the Siljan
Lake, in the midst of a broad and fertile valley. Ten miles to the eastward arose the spire
of Orsa, and southward, on an island in the lake, the tall church of Sollerön. "You can see
three churches at once," said our postillion with great pride. So we could, and also the large,
stately inn of Mora--a most welcome sight to us, after five days on potato diet.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

LAST DAYS IN THE NORTH.

Mora, in Dalecarlia, is classic ground. It was here that Gustavus Vasa first harangued the
people, and kindled that spark of revolution, which in the end swept the Danes from Sweden.
In the cellar of a house which was pointed out to us, on the southern shore of the Siljan Lake,
he lay hidden three days; in the barn of Ivan Elfssen he threshed corn, disguised as a peasant;
and on the road by which we had travelled from Kettbo, in descending to the lake, we had seen
the mounds of stone, heaped over the Danes, who were slain in his first victorious engagement.
This district is considered, also, one of the most beautiful in Sweden. It has, indeed, a quiet,
tranquil beauty, which gradually grows upon the eye, so that if one is not particularly aroused
on first acquaintance, he at least carries away a delightful picture in his memory. But in
order to enjoy properly any Swedish landscape whatsoever, one should not be too fresh from Norway.

After dinner we called at the "Parsonage of Mora," which has given Miss Fredrika Bremer the
materials for one of her stories of Swedish life.

The Prost, Herr Kjelström, was not at home, but his wife received us with great cordiality,
and insisted upon our remaining to tea. The magister----, who called at the same time, gave
us some information concerning the porphyry quarries at Elfdal, which we were debating whether
we should visit. Very little is doing at present, not more than ten men in all being employed,
and in his opinion we would hardly be repaid for the journey thither; so we determined to turn
southward again, and gradually make our way to Stockholm. Fru Kjelström was one of the few
Swedes I met, who was really an enthusiastic admirer of Tegner; she knew by heart the greater
part of his "Frithiof's Saga."

The morning after our arrival in Mora dawned dark and cloudy, with a wailing wind and dashes
of rain. There were threats of the equinoctial storm, and we remembered the prediction of the
lumber merchants in Carlstad. During the night, however, a little steamer belonging to an iron
company arrived, offering us the chance of a passage down the lake to Leksand. While we were
waiting on the shore, the magister, who had come to see us depart, gave me some information
about the Läsare. He admitted that there were many in Dalecarlia, and said that the policy
of persecution, which was practiced against them in the beginning, was now dropped. They were,
in general, ignored by the clerical authorities. He looked upon the movement rather as a transient
hallucination than as a permanent secession from the Established Church, and seemed to think
that it would gradually disappear, if left to itself. He admitted that the king was in favour
of religious liberty, but was so guarded in speaking of the subject that I did not ascertain
his own views.

We had on board about sixty passengers, mostly peasants from Upper Elfdal, bound on a peddling
excursion through Sweden, with packs of articles which they manufacture at home. Their stock
consisted mostly of pocket-books, purses, boxes, and various small articles of ornament and
use. The little steamer was so well laden with their solid forms that she settled into the
mud, and the crew had hard poling to get her off. There was service in Mora Church, and the
sound of the organ and choir was heard along the lake. Many friends and relatives of the wandering
Elfdalians were on the little wooden pier to bid them adieu. "God's peace be with thee!" was
a parting salutation which I heard many times repeated. At last we got fairly clear and paddled
off through the sepia-coloured water, watching the softly undulating shores, which soon sank
low enough to show the blue, irregular hills in the distant background. Mora spire was the
central point in the landscape, and remained visible until we had nearly reached the other
end of the lake. The Siljan has a length of about twenty-five miles, with a breadth of from
six to ten. The shores are hilly, but only moderately high, except in the neighborhood of Rättvik,
where they were bold and beautiful. The soft slopes on either hand were covered with the yellow
pillars of the ripe oats, bound to upright stakes to dry. From every village rose a tall midsummer
pole, yet laden with the withered garlands of Sweden's fairest festival, and bearing aloft
its patriotic symbol, the crossed arrows of Dalecarlia. The threatened storm broke and dispersed
as we left Mora, and strong sun-bursts between the clouds flashed across these pastoral pictures.

Soon after we left, a number of the men and women collected together on the after-deck, and
commenced singing hymns, which occupation they kept up with untiring fervour during the whole
voyage. The young girls were remarkable for weight and solidity of figure, ugliness of face,
and sweetness of voice. The clear, ringing tones, with a bell-like purity and delicious timbre,
issued without effort from between their thick, beefy lips, and there was such a contrast between
sound and substance, that they attracted my attention more than I should have thought possible.
Some of the men, who had heard what we were, entered into conversation with us. I soon discovered
that they were all Läsare, and one of them, who seemed to exercise a kind of leadership, and
who was a man of considerable intelligence, gave me a good deal of information about the sect.
They met together privately, he said, to read the New Testament, trusting entirely to its inspired
pages for the means of enlightenment as to what was necessary for the salvation of their souls.
The clergy stood between them and the Voice of God, who had spoken not to a particular class,
but to all mankind. They were liable to a fine of 200 rigs ($52) every time they thus met together,
my informant had once been obliged to pay it himself. Nevertheless, he said they were not interfered
with so much at present, except that they were obliged to pay tithes, as before. "The king
is a good man," he continued, "he means well, and would do us justice if he had the power;
but the clergy are all against him, and his own authority is limited. Now they are going to
bring the question of religious freedom before the Diet, but we have not the least hope that
anything will be done." He also stated--what, indeed, must be evident to every observing traveller--that
the doctrines of the Läsare had spread very rapidly, and that their numbers were continually
increasing.

