"There was one day, though, she gave him a queer fright anyway, whether he had seen her or
not. He was in among the cattle when it happened, and he comes up to the house all trembling
like. 'Don't let me hear you say another word of your Wee Woman. I have got enough of her this
time.' Another time, all the same, he was up Gortin to sell horses, and before he went off,
in steps the Wee Woman and says she to my mother, holding out a sort of a weed, 'Your man is
gone up by Gortin, and there's a bad fright waiting him coming home, but take this and sew
it in his coat, and he'll get no harm by it.' My mother takes the herb, but thinks to herself,
'Sure there's nothing in it,' and throws it on the floor, and lo and behold, and sure enough!
coming home from Gortin, my father got as bad a fright as ever he got in his life. What it
was I don't right mind, but anyway he was badly damaged by it. My mother was in a queer way,
frightened of the Wee Woman, after what she done, and sure enough the next time she was angry.
'Ye didn't believe me,' she said, 'and ye threw the herb I gave ye in the fire, and I went
far enough for it.' There was another time she came and told how William Hearne was dead in
America. 'Go over,' she says, 'to the Lough, and say that William is dead, and he died happy,
and this was the last Bible chapter ever he read,' and with that she gave the verse and chapter.
'Go,' she says, 'and tell them to read them at the next class meeting, and that I held his
head while he died.' And sure enough word came after that how William had died on the day she
named. And, doing as she did about the chapter and hymn, they never had such a prayer-meeting
as that. One day she and me and my mother was standing talking, and she was warning her about
something, when she says of a sudden, 'Here comes Miss Letty in all her finery, and it's time
for me to be off.' And with that she gave a swirl round on her feet, and raises up in the air,
and round and round she goes, and up and up, as if it was a winding stairs she went up, only
far swifter. She went up and up, till she was no bigger than a bird up against the clouds,
singing and singing the whole time the loveliest music I ever heard in my life from that day
to this. It wasn't a hymn she was singing, but poetry, lovely poetry, and me and my mother
stands gaping up, and all of a tremble. 'What is she at all, mother?' says I. 'Is it an angel
she is, or a faery woman, or what?' With that up come Miss Letty, that was your grandmother,
dear, but Miss Letty she was then, and no word of her being anything else, and she wondered
to see us gaping up that way, till me and my mother told her of it. She went on gay-dressed
then, and was lovely looking. She was up the lane where none of us could see her coming forward
when the Wee Woman rose up in that queer way, saying, 'Here comes Miss Letty in all her finery.'
Who knows to what far country she went, or to see whom dying?

"It was never after dark she came, but daylight always, as far as I mind, but wanst, and that
was on a Hallow Eve night. My mother was by the fire, making ready the supper; she had a duck
down and some apples. In slips the Wee Woman, 'I'm come to pass my Hallow Eve with you,' says
she. 'That's right,' says my mother, and thinks to herself, 'I can give her her supper nicely.'
Down she sits by the fire a while. 'Now I'll tell you where you'll bring my supper,' says she.
'In the room beyond there beside the loom--set a chair in and a plate.' 'When ye're spending
the night, mayn't ye as well sit by the table and eat with the rest of us?' 'Do what you're
bid, and set whatever you give me in the room beyant. I'll eat there and nowhere else.' So
my mother sets her a plate of duck and some apples, whatever was going, in where she bid, and
we got to our supper and she to hers; and when we rose I went in, and there, lo and behold
ye, was her supper-plate a bit ate of each portion, and she clean gone!"

1897.

DREAMS THAT HAVE NO MORAL

The friend who heard about Maive and the hazel-stick went to the workhouse another day. She
found the old people cold and wretched, "like flies in winter," she said; but they forgot the
cold when they began to talk. A man had just left them who had played cards in a rath with
the people of faery, who had played "very fair"; and one old man had seen an enchanted black
pig one night, and there were two old people my friend had heard quarrelling as to whether
Raftery or Callanan was the better poet. One had said of Raftery, "He was a big man, and his
songs have gone through the whole world. I remember him well. He had a voice like the wind";
but the other was certain "that you would stand in the snow to listen to Callanan." Presently
an old man began to tell my friend a story, and all listened delightedly, bursting into laughter
now and then. The story, which I am going to tell just as it was told, was one of those old
rambling moralless tales, which are the delight of the poor and the hard driven, wherever life
is left in its natural simplicity. They tell of a time when nothing had consequences, when
even if you were killed, if only you had a good heart, somebody would bring you to life again
with a touch of a rod, and when if you were a prince and happened to look exactly like your
brother, you might go to bed with his queen, and have only a little quarrel afterwards. We
too, if we were so weak and poor that everything threatened us with misfortune, would remember,
if foolish people left us alone, every old dream that has been strong enough to fling the weight
of the world from its shoulders.

There was a king one time who was very much put out because he had no son, and he went at last
to consult his chief adviser. And the chief adviser said, "It's easy enough managed if you
do as I tell you. Let you send some one," says he, "to such a place to catch a fish. And when
the fish is brought in, give it to the queen, your wife, to eat."

So the king sent as he was told, and the fish was caught and brought in, and he gave it to
the cook, and bade her put it before the fire, but to be careful with it, and not to let any
blob or blister rise on it. But it is impossible to cook a fish before the fire without the
skin of it rising in some place or other, and so there came a blob on the skin, and the cook
put her finger on it to smooth it down, and then she put her finger into her mouth to cool
it, and so she got a taste of the fish. And then it was sent up to the queen, and she ate it,
and what was left of it was thrown out into the yard, and there was a mare in the yard and
a greyhound, and they ate the bits that were thrown out.

And before a year was out, the queen had a young son, and the cook had a young son, and the
mare had two foals, and the greyhound had two pups.

And the two young sons were sent out for a while to some place to be cared, and when they came
back they adviser and said, "Tell me some way that I can know were so much like one another
no person could know which was the queen's son and which was the cook's. And the queen was
vexed at that, and she went to the chief which is my own son, for I don't like to be giving
the same eating and drinking to the cook's son as to my own." "It is easy to know that," said
the chief adviser, "if you will do as I tell you. Go you outside, and stand at the door they
will be coming in by, and when they see you, your own son will bow his head, but the cook's
son will only laugh."

So she did that, and when her own son bowed his head, her servants put a mark on him that she
would know him again. And when they were all sitting at their dinner after that, she said to
Jack, that was the cook's son, "It is time for you to go away out of this, for you are not
my son." And her own son, that we will call Bill, said, "Do not send him away, are we not brothers?"
But Jack said, "I would have been long ago out of this house if I knew it was not my own father
and mother owned it." And for all Bill could say to him, he would not stop. But before he went,
they were by the well that was in the garden, and he said to Bill, "If harm ever happens to
me, that water on the top of the well will be blood, and the water below will be honey."

Then he took one of the pups, and one of the two horses, that was foaled after the mare eating
the fish, and the wind that was after him could not catch him, and he caught the wind that
was before him. And he went on till he came to a weaver's house, and he asked him for a lodging,
and he gave it to him. And then he went on till he came to a king's house, and he sent in at
the door to ask, "Did he want a servant?" "All I want," said the king, "is a boy that will
drive out the cows to the field every morning, and bring them in at night to be milked." "I
will do that for you," said Jack; so the king engaged him.

In the morning Jack was sent out with the four-and-twenty cows, and the place he was told to
drive them to had not a blade of grass in it for them, but was full of stones. So Jack looked
about for some place where there would be better grass, and after a while he saw a field with
good green grass in it, and it belonging to a giant. So he knocked down a bit of the wall and
drove them in, and he went up himself into an apple-tree and began to eat the apples. Then
the giant came into the field. "Fee-faw-fum," says he, "I smell the blood of an Irishman. I
see you where you are, up in the tree," he said; "you are too big for one mouthful, and too
small for two mouthfuls, and I don't know what I'll do with you if I don't grind you up and
make snuff for my nose." "As you are strong, be merciful," says Jack up in the tree. "Come
down out of that, you little dwarf," said the giant, "or I'll tear you and the tree asunder."
So Jack came down. "Would you sooner be driving red-hot knives into one another's hearts,"
said the giant, "or would you sooner be fighting one another on red-hot flags?" "Fighting on
red-hot flags is what I'm used to at home," said Jack, "and your dirty feet will be sinking
in them and my feet will be rising." So then they began the fight. The ground that was hard
they made soft, and the ground that was soft they made hard, and they made spring wells come
up through the green flags. They were like that all through the day, no one getting the upper
hand of the other, and at last a little bird came and sat on the bush and said to Jack, "If
you don't make an end of him by sunset, he'll make an end of you." Then Jack put out his strength,
and he brought the giant down on his knees. "Give me my life," says the giant, "and I'll give
you the three best gifts." "What are those?" said Jack. "A sword that nothing can stand against,
and a suit that when you put it on, you will see everybody, and nobody will see you, and a
pair of shoes that will make you ran faster than the wind blows." "Where are they to be found?"
said Jack. "In that red door you see there in the hill." So Jack went and got them out. "Where
will I try the sword?" says he. "Try it on that ugly black stump of a tree," says the giant.
"I see nothing blacker or uglier than your own head," says Jack. And with that he made one
stroke, and cut off the giant's head that it went into the air, and he caught it on the sword
as it was coming down, and made two halves of it. "It is well for you I did not join the body
again," said the head, "or you would have never been able to strike it off again." "I did not
give you the chance of that," said Jack. And he brought away the great suit with him.

So he brought the cows home at evening, and every one wondered at all the milk they gave that
night. And when the king was sitting at dinner with the princess, his daughter, and the rest,
he said, "I think I only hear two roars from beyond to-night in place of three."

The next morning Jack went out again with the cows, and he saw another field full of grass,
and he knocked down the wall and let the cows in. All happened the same as the day before,
but the giant that came this time had two heads, and they fought together, and the little bird
came and spoke to Jack as before. And when Jack had brought the giant down, he said, "Give
me my life, and I'll give you the best thing I have." "What is that?" says Jack. "It's a suit
that you can put on, and you will see every one but no one can see you." "Where is it?" said
Jack. "It's inside that little red door at the side of the hill." So Jack went and brought
out the suit. And then he cut off the giant's two heads, and caught them coming down and made
four halves of them. And they said it was well for him he had not given them time to join the body.

That night when the cows came home they gave so much milk that all the vessels that could be
found were filled up.

The next morning Jack went out again, and all happened as before, and the giant this time had
four heads, and Jack made eight halves of them. And the giant had told him to go to a little
blue door in the side of the hill, and there he got a pair of shoes that when you put them
on would go faster than the wind.

That night the cows gave so much milk that there were not vessels enough to hold it, and it
was given to tenants and to poor people passing the road, and the rest was thrown out at the
windows. I was passing that way myself, and I got a drink of it.

That night the king said to Jack, "Why is it the cows are giving so much milk these days? Are
you bringing them to any other grass?" "I am not," said Jack, "but I have a good stick, and
whenever they would stop still or lie down, I give them blows of it, that they jump and leap
over walls and stones and ditches; that's the way to make cows give plenty of milk."

And that night at the dinner, the king said, "I hear no roars at all."

The next morning, the king and the princess were watching at the window to see what would Jack
do when he got to the field. And Jack knew they were there, and he got a stick, and began to
batter the cows, that they went leaping and jumping over stones, and walls, and ditches. "There
is no lie in what Jack said," said the king then.

Now there was a great serpent at that time used to come every seven years, and he had to get
a kines daughter to eat, unless she would have some good man to fight for her. And it was the
princess at the place Jack was had to be given to it that time, and the king had been feeding
a bully underground for seven years, and you may believe he got the best of everything, to
be ready to fight it.

