Take a large sole (one without a roe). Remove the back skin and with a sharp knife very carefully
cut out the side fins, lay it on the dish in which it is to be served, one that may be placed
in the oven. Brush the fish with melted butter. Insert in the flesh of the fish some small
slices of truffle. Sprinkle it with salt, white pepper, a very little mace and dust it all
over with fine crumbs. Pour around it a tumbler of good white wine. Place in a moderate oven
and cook until nearly done, twenty minutes or longer, if the fish be large. Take it out and
put around the edge of the dish a row of croutons, brushing them with the white of an egg to
make them adhere to the dish. Then scatter over and around the fish, a small can of mushrooms,
sliced, oysters, mussels, picked shrimps and some quenelles. Add a little more melted butter
and a few more crumbs, add more white wine and put back in the oven for five minutes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Filet of Sole a la Bohemian

Cut a sole or flounder into four filets. Roll each one up, stuffing with a mixture of sal piquant
sauce. Roll around each a thin slice of pork and fasten with a skewer. Stand on end in a baking
pan and put a small piece of butter and a slice of lemon on each and bake until done.

Fry together for five minutes, chopped eschalots, parsley, chevril, herbs, butter, salt and
cayenne. Take from the fire and stir in a little lime juice and anchovy sauce. Cover the fish
with a layer of thin slices of pork or bacon. Add one-half pint of water and bake half an hour.
To make the sauce, take the liquor from the baking pan, add to it salt, pepper, cayenne, the
juice of one lime, a wine glass of sherry, a tablespoonful of mushroom or walnut catsup, and
a piece of butter the size of an egg with a little flour rubbed into it. Allow it to boil once
and pour over the fish.

       *       *       *       *       *

Flounders a la Magouze

Place several fish into a baking pan with a glass of white wine, salt, pepper, and an ounce
of butter. While they are cooking break three eggs into half a pint of cream, and beat until
it is light. When the fish is done remove them from the pan and stir the eggs and cream into
the gravy. Simmer for two minutes, and pour over the fish, serving at once.

       *       *       *       *       *

Salmon a la Melville

Put slices of salmon into a baking pan with a little white wine and water. Sprinkle with salt
and bits of butter. Place in the oven and bake for fifteen minutes.

For a sauce, blanch some very finely chopped young onions. Put them in a saucepan with a wine
glass of white wine, salt, cayenne, a cup of picked shrimps, a lemon cut in thin slices, and
a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Then add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled
in a very little flour. Remove from the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs. Pour the sauce
over the fish and serve.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stewed Haddock

Lay pieces of fish in a pan with the skin side up. Sprinkle with salt and cayenne, and cover
tightly, allowing the fish to stew in its juice for twenty minutes. Then add a quarter of a
pound of butter rolled in flour, and a quarter of a glass of wine. Stir the liquor and simmer
for a few moments, when it is ready to serve. No water should be used.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bacalas a la Viscaina

Soak half a salt codfish over night. Put in a saucepan one-half cup of olive oil, and two large
onions cut in bits. When browned add two large tomatoes cut up. Stew slowly fifteen minutes,
adding a little black pepper. Put in the fish picked to pieces and cook slowly half an hour.
Serve on a platter, with some fried whole green peppers on top.

       *       *       *       *       *

Baked Sardines

Remove the skins from large boned sardines and heat in the oven on strips of toast. Make a
sauce as follows: Pour the oil from the sardines into a saucepan and heat it well. Then stir
in an ounce of flour, adding a small cup of hot water. Season this with a teaspoonful of Worcestershire
sauce, salt and paprika. Beat the yolk of an egg with a teaspoonful of vinegar and one of mustard.
Stir this into the sauce after it is removed from the fire. Pour over the sardines and serve.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sardines with Cheese

Drain the sardines and lay them on strips of toast or crisply fried bread. Cover thickly with
Parmesan cheese and bake in a hot oven until light brown in color. Remove and sprinkle with
chopped parsley and pour over all plenty of lemon juice. Serve very hot. Remove from the fire
and plunge into cold water, wipe the roe dry and break into bits without crushing. Have ready
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. Mash them into a cup of drawn butter with salt, pepper,
chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, the juice of half a lemon and a cup of bread
crumbs. Mix very lightly with the broken fish roe. Place in a baking dish, cover with bread
crumbs and bits of butter, and brown in the oven.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kedgeree

Boil two tablespoonfuls of rice and drain it as dry as possible. Have ready a cupful of cooked
fish of any sort broken into pieces. Mix it thoroughly with the rice and heat over the fire;
season with salt and pepper. Beat an egg lightly and stir into it. Serve at once.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bouillabaise

The fish used for bouillabaise may be any kind of firm white fish, and for the following recipe,
about two pounds are required. Heat in a soup kettle four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and fry
in it two large onions sliced, and two cloves of garlic. Add the fish cut into bits and just
cover the mixture with warm water. Then add salt, pepper, half of a bay leaf, two large tomatoes,
peeled and chopped, the juice of half a lemon and one cup of white wine. Cook over a brisk
fire twelve minutes, or until the liquor is reduced one-third. Add one tablespoonful chopped
parsley and a pinch of saffron. Cook two minutes. Pour the bouillabaise over slices of French
bread.

ENTREES

Sweetbreads with Mushrooms

Lay half a dozen sweetbreads in cold water for twelve hours, changing the water several times.
Then boil them five minutes, drop into cold water, remove the skin and lard with fat bacon.
Put them in a saucepan with a pint of stock, two small onions and one carrot chopped, a teaspoonful
of minced parsley, salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little mace. Stew until tender.

Serve with a mushroom sauce, made as follows: Take a small bottle of mushrooms or one dozen
fresh mushrooms sliced and boil them five minutes in water and lime juice. Drain and place
in a stew pan with two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour and a pint of well seasoned stock
or gravy. Cook until the sauce is reduced one-half. Pour over the hot sweetbreads.

       *       *       *       *       *

Terrapin

Boil the terrapin for one hour, and clean carefully. Rub into a paste the yolks of six hard-boiled
eggs, half the white of one egg chopped, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of flour,
three whole cloves, salt, pepper, cayenne and mace. Place the terrapin into a stewpan with
a glass of sherry or madeira and the prepared paste. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. Add three
glasses of sherry and madeira and allow it to boil once, when it is ready to serve.

       *       *       *       *       *

Frogs a la Poulette

Joint the hind legs and backs of twelve frogs; put in a closely covered saucepan with some
truffles, a small can of mushrooms sliced, a glass of white wine, salt, white pepper, cayenne,
mace and four ounces of butter. Stew gently fifteen minutes, stirring once or twice. If then
tender, add one teaspoonful cornstarch rubbed into one ounce of butter. Let it cook two minutes,
take from the fire and stir in the yolks of six eggs beaten well with one-half cup of cream.
Place this mixture where it will keep hot without cooking. Cut the crust from a loaf of bread,
scoop out the center, brush with butter and brown in the oven. Pour the frogs legs and sauce
into the bread cup, garnish with mushrooms and truffles.

       *       *       *       *       *

Calves' Head en Tortue

Simmer a calves' head for two hours. Tie the brains in a cloth, put them in the saucepan with
the head and cook two hours longer. Then extract the bones and cut the meat in pieces, return
it to the saucepan without the brains, adding two ounces of butter, two dozen stoned olives,
one dozen cloves, salt, pepper, cayenne, and a cup of white wine. Cook for one hour, then add
the brains cut in bits, the shaved peel and piece of one lemon and three hard-boiled eggs sliced.
Cook thirty minutes. Thicken the sauce with flour rubbed into butter and serve with the calves'
head.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chops a la Reine

Trim twelve lamb chops very closely and fry lightly in six ounces of butter. Remove them and
in the same butter place two onions, sliced, four green peppers minced, one can of mushrooms
minced, and two stalks of celery chopped; salt, pepper, cayenne, and the juice of a lime. Cook
until these ingredients are soft. Stir in six ounces of flour. Then add two cups of milk and
cook until the mixture is thick and smooth. Dust a plate with cracker crumbs and on this place
a spoonful of the fried mixture. Place a chop on top of this, cover it with another spoonful
of the mixture and dust with cracker crumbs. Repeat with each chop, and when cold roll each
in beaten egg and cracker crumbs, and fry a light brown.

       *       *       *       *       *

Calves' Feet a la Marechale

Boil four calves' feet until tender. Cut into inch pieces and fry in four ounces of butter,
with two onions, a little garlic, two green peppers and some mushrooms, chopped fine, seasoning
all with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little mace. Stir in four ounces of flour and add boiling
milk, enough to make the mixture as thick as rich cream. Put in the calves' feet and mix all
well together. Then remove from the fire and beat in the yolks of two eggs which have been
mixed with the juice of a lime and a tablespoonful of water. Pour the whole into a buttered
pan and set aside to cool. When cold cut into slices, brush with egg and bread crumbs and fry
in butter until a light brown.

       *       *       *       *       *

Puree of Chestnuts with Chops

Boil chestnuts in salted water for twenty minutes. Shell them, season with salt and pepper,
add a piece of butter and wet with milk. Mash through a colander and heap lightly on a platter,
arranging broiled chops around the puree.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lamb Chops a la Nesselrode

Trim carefully one dozen young lamb chops. Fry in butter three tablespoonfuls of marrow, some
chopped mushrooms and eschalots. Then add a glass of sherry and stir it well before adding
also a cup of rice, four cups of stock, several sweet Chili peppers chopped and some salt.
Cook for half an hour or until pasty. Pour it out in a pan to the thickness of half an inch
and let cool. Then with a biscuit cutter, cut it into rounds about the size of a chop. On each
one of these rounds place a chop and cover the top with Bechamel sauce. When cold dip in egg
and bread crumbs and fry a light brown.

