    "A great number of men have failed at camp because of
    inability to articulate clearly. A man who cannot impart his
    idea to his command in clear distinct language, and with
    sufficient volume of voice to be heard reasonably far, is not
    qualified to give command upon which human life will depend.
    Many men disqualified by this handicap might have become
    officers under their country's flag had they been properly
    trained in school and college. It is to be hoped therefore
    that more emphasis will be placed upon the basic principles
    of elocution in the training of our youth. Even without
    prescribed training in elocution a great improvement could be
    wrought by the instructors in our schools and colleges,
    regardless of the subjects, by insisting that all answers be
    given in a loud, clear, well rounded voice which, of course,
    necessitates the opening of the mouth and free movement of
    the lips. It is remarkable how many excellent men suffer from
    this handicap, and how almost impossible it is to correct
    this after the formative years of life."

Speech and Talk. The high value here placed upon speech must not be transferred to mere talk.
The babbler will always be justly regarded with contempt. Without ideas, opinions, information,
talk becomes the most wasteful product in the world, wasteful not only of the time of the person
who insists upon delivering it, but more woefully and unjustifiably wasteful of the time and
patience of those poor victims who are forced to listen to it. Shakespeare put a man of this
disposition into The Merchant of Venice and then had his discourse described by another.

    "Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing, more than any
    man in all Venice. His reasons are as two grains of wheat hid
    in two bushels of chaff: you shall seek all day 'ere you find
    them, and when you have them, they are not worth the search."

But the man who has ideas and can best express them is a leader everywhere. He does the organizing,
he makes and imparts the plans, he carries his own theories and beliefs into execution, he
is the intrusted agent, the advanced executive. He can act for himself. He can influence others
to significant and purposeful action. The advantages that come to men who can think upon their
feet, who can express extempore a carefully considered proposition, who can adapt their conversation
or arguments to every changing condition, cannot be emphasized too strongly.

Speech an Acquired Ability. We frequently regard and discuss speech as a perfectly natural
attribute of all human beings. In some sense it is. Yet an American child left to the care
of deaf-mutes, never hearing the speech of his own kind, would not develop into a speaker of
the native language of his parents. He doubtless would be able to imitate every natural sound
he might hear. He could reproduce the cry or utterance of every animal or bird he had ever
heard. But he would no more speak English naturally than he would Arabic. In this sense, language
is not a natural attribute as is hunger. It is an imitative accomplishment acquired only after
long years of patient practice and arduous effort. Some people never really attain a facile
mastery of the means of communication. Some mature men and women are no more advanced in the
use of speech than children of ten or fifteen. The practice is life-long. The effort is unceasing.

