Exercise. Practise the syllables ma, za, ska, a. The sound of the Italian a, as in ah, gives
the freest position of the organs for the production of tone, and perhaps the most difficult
form in which to direct a tone with certainty. It is combined with these consonant elements
in order to invite it forward and bring it to a point (figuratively speaking). The m relates
it to the nares or humming tone (which is the basis of all resonance in the voice). The z sharpens
the consciousness at the front, and the sk furnishes a good start for a positive stroke in
the voice, while the a alone leaves us to venture upon the free tone unassisted by these guides
to direction. The exercise should be practised with such musical variations as the student
can learn to execute--the scale, arpeggios, etc., both sustained tone and light touches, broad
tones and shaded tones. Other vowels may also be practised thus.

The practice of rhythm, or the practice of rhythmical accent, should be introduced, as the
sense of rhythm is an important element in the development of expressiveness.

The object now is to secure sensibility and responsiveness in the voice. This opens the possibilities
of vocal expression. When we speak of the nares anteri (or front head resonant cavity) as the
dominant center of physical consciousness nothing mechanical is meant. One is conscious that
the eye is fixed upon an object, but not therefore conscious of the action of the muscles used
in turning it upon the object. One thinks not of the eye, but through the eye toward the object.

Finally, technique has as its object the training of the instrument to freedom and responsiveness;
but the true art of vocal expression begins when the instrument is used in obedience to such
objects of thought as should cause its strings to vibrate loudly or softly, all together or
in partial harmony, in obedience to that vital impulse which the instrument itself was created
to obey.

CHAPTER III

The Higher Development of the Voice by the Application of First Principles.

There are four general forms of emphasis which serve as indications of the characteristics
of expression. They are Force, Pitch, Volume, and Time. Force corresponds to life, or vitality,
in the voice. Pitch corresponds to the range of the voice, and expresses affection or attraction.
Volume measures the activity of the will through the voice, and Time, the expression of which
depends principally upon movement, or rhythm, corresponds to the intellectual activities.

It will be understood that these forms of expression, or emphasis, are developed, according
to the practice in the "Evolution of Expression," by means of purely mental discipline. It
is nevertheless possible to reinforce these powers of the voice by technical practice with
special reference to this development. In taking up this branch of the work the student is
supposed to have fulfilled the requirements of the elementary voice practice, which, it will
be remembered, includes the establishment of freedom by means of right direction of tone, the
perfecting of the elements in polished articulation, the facile handling of the voice in combining
various elements, and a certain degree of responsiveness in the practice of various musical
qualities.

FORCE

For the development of increased vital power in the voice the student should practise the nares
exercise and also the elements of speech in a sustained and even manner, continuing tones as
long as it is possible to keep control of them. The effect of this is to establish strength
and steadiness in the action of the muscles that control the voice, and increase of breathing-power
in response to the requirements involved in the exercise. The tone must be kept pure and free,
and practised with varying degrees of force, with the idea of steady projection and determined
control. The ability to sustain the tone for a long time will increase, and with it the power
of the muscles exercised.

The idea of projecting tone is based upon the feeling of sympathy with those at a distance,
and not simply upon the desire to make them hear. Short passages of a vital and animated nature
should be practised with varying degrees of radiation, so that the consciousness of the student
may adapt itself to the idea of including in his sympathies a larger or smaller number of people.
The thought of sympathy with, or nearness to, those addressed is a most important principle
in the development of this power. It is never the best way to strive to speak loud in order
that one may be heard. Such selections as Lanier's "Life and Song," Wordsworth's "The Daffodils,"
and Scott's "Lochinvar" will be found helpful studies for radiation. It is useful in practising
the humming tone, or the nares tone, to imagine the whole atmosphere pervaded with pure resonance.
Too much emphasis cannot be placed upon the idea of perfect purity as the essential foundation
of power. The pure voice will grow to power. In taking this exercise there should be no consciousness
of effort in the throat, and no shade of sharpness should be heard in the tone. One must try
for the pure, pervasive resonance which seems to float on the air like the soft note of a violin.
The right condition for the expression of this radiant vitality in the voice is a complete
alertness and responsive vivacity of the whole person. This animation should be vital and not
nervous.

PITCH

A voice, to express variety, must have sufficient compass to give opportunity for a free play
of inflection over various degrees of pitch. It has been said, "Inflection is the tune of the
thought." It is that which makes it attractive. If one desires to emphasize a point of thought
and make it attractive to another person he instinctively increases his emphasis by lengthening
the slide or inflection. The high pitch indicates mental activity; the medium pitch is the
normal or heart range; the low pitch is more peculiarly vital. If one would express varieties
of thought with brilliancy and effectiveness, the range of his voice must be wide, and the
evenness of quality so perfect that he can glide from one extreme of pitch to another without
any break in the tone. Facility in thus handling the voice may be developed by means of special
attention directed to this characteristic. The practice for securing this adaptability in the
modulations of pitch is as follows.

Begin with the nares or humming tone, giving it on as many different notes of the scale as
can be easily reached. Practise the scale gliding from one note to another while maintaining
the pure tone. Practise gliding in the form of inflection, or slide, from one extreme of pitch
to another. This may be given with variations, according to the ability of the student to control
his voice with evenness and to maintain that pure smoothness of gradation in quality which
permits no break or interruption in gliding from one pitch to another. These varieties of practice
in slides and scales should be introduced with the practice of various elements of speech,
as well as with the humming tone. The different vowels should be so used. Selections for practice
should be chosen which contain much variety of thought and feeling and are smooth in movement.
For instance, Tennyson's "Song of the Brook," "The Bugle Song," practised with the introduction
of the bugle notes and their echoes, and various other selections of a musical and attractive
nature, may be adapted to this practice by simply exaggerating the slides which one would naturally
make in bringing out the meaning. No extravagant or unwarrantable inflections which will mar
the expression of the thought should be permitted, but it is quite desirable to gradually extend
the range of the inflections, if one still maintains in the practice that common sense which
will leave the expression in perfect symmetry when the extra effort made for inflection shall
have been withdrawn. Though it is sometimes desirable to exaggerate one element, even to the
sacrifice of others, it is never necessary to introduce false notes, the effect of which may
remain as a limitation upon the expression of the selection used.

VOLUME

Other things being equal, the volume of voice used measures the value that the mind puts upon
the thought. Of course the expression of this value is modified and characterized by the nature
of the thing spoken of. For example, one would express the value of the ocean with a different
quality from that which would be used in expressing the value of something exquisitely delicate.
All elements of expression modify each other, so that no mere rule can cover all cases. Volume
is not always expressed in the form of extension of power, but is frequently manifested in
the form of intensity or compressed volume. It is scarcely necessary to explain the difference
between the expression of mere vital power in the voice and that manifestation of the will
which gives the impression of directed energy. The will determines, and the impetus of the
thought is measured by, the adjustment of volume. Vitality is expressed in radiation; will
is expressed in focus.

The term "volume" may be broadly used to cover the characteristics of the thing estimated,
and hence to include something of that subtle expression which we call color in the voice.
Volume expresses will; color expresses imagination. For this use of the voice in the special
service of will-power, or propelling force, it is necessary first to test its freedom. This
may be done by taking the humming tone and bringing to bear upon it a strong pressure of energy.
If the tone sharpens under the strain it is not perfectly focused. If it remains mellow one
may venture upon the next step, which is to practise various vowel sounds and elements of speech
with concentrated energy. The sense of bearing on to the voice, or endeavoring to push the
tone by any pressure whatever, should be absolutely avoided. Tone support should be carefully
regarded. In order to secure this a correct standing position must be held and the muscles
about the waist and the abdominal muscles must be firm and elastic.

The chin is, in articulation, the pedal of power, and decision in the conscious action of the
chin (not the jaw) will induce by reflex action that stroke which expresses well-aimed will-power.
It may be noticed in connection with this suggestion that when a person means what he says
the action of the chin is likely to be noticeably decided.

The perfectly alert and self-commanding attitude of the body cannot be too strongly urged at
this point, for the voice cannot be used safely with great power when the body itself is in
a negative attitude; for it must be remembered that the voice is a reporter, and if we attempt
to force it to report something that is not there it will repay us by casting the lie in our
throat. Power is the result of growth, and can be developed only by patience and the securing
of such conditions as will establish freedom and certainty. The certainty of any tone depends
upon the perfection of its focus. Quality is the synthetic effect of these attributes in the
voice. Under this head selections of a warlike nature may be practised, and those which have
in them the thoughts of magnitude and importance. Spartacus's "Address to the Gladiators" is
excellent; also, Byron's "Apostrophe to the Ocean," "The Rising in '76," and selections of
a similar nature.

TIME

Including Poise and Rhythm

The significance of time is determined by the movement of any selection, or, in other words,
the rhythm. It will be noticed that a selection may be read with rhythmical effect and be made
quite impressive without much emphasis of other characteristics. However, the responsiveness
of the voice in variety of pitch, quality, and power is also a very large factor in the illumination
of the pause. The pause, as a mere interruption of sound, has little significance, but the
relations that the different sounds bear to each other lend significance to the pause. A pause
should always suggest an orbit of thought. These characteristics of expression can be made
effective only by the practice of concentration in the mind itself upon the thoughts to be
suggested. Nevertheless, the quick responsiveness of one's sensibilities in the expression
of the various qualities developed by the cultivation of the voice greatly facilitates the
manifestation of the thought itself.

All selections of a high order have relation to rhythm in their composition, and that style
of movement in the composition should find its ready response in the organism of the speaker
or reciter. It should be remembered that the sense of rhythm may be misapplied, as may any
other element, by allowing the mind to go off into the sensation of "jingle" without reference
to its expression of the thought or its relation to the thought. But if the sense of rhythm
is duly developed, and then this sensibility, as well as all others, is surrendered to the
service of the thought, it furnishes an element of beauty which cannot easily be dispensed
with. The reason we associate rhythm with the significance of time is that rhythm is a measurer
of time.

In connection with this step the practice of melodies is useful, if one has musical taste.
Simple, familiar melodies are best--such as "The Last Rose of Summer," "Annie Laurie," "Flow
Gently, Sweet Afton," etc., etc. The importance of rhythm is well expressed by Emerson, who
said that the rhythm of Shakespeare's verse was always the outcome of the thought.

The term "ellipse" has been sometimes used to express the implied action of the mind during
the pause--describing an orbit of thought implied but not stated in the words.

The illumination of the pause, or the responsiveness of the voice, in exhibiting those modifications
of quality which give significance, may be greatly enhanced by the practice of such selections
as express much beauty of thought and variety of significance,--such as Shelley's "The Cloud,"--things
which are somewhat philosophical in their significance; by selections which suggest much more
than is definitely stated,--"Aux Italiens," by Owen Meredith, "He and She," by Edwin Arnold,
"Evelyn Hope," by Robert Browning; also chapters from philosophy that is poetically expressed,
such as Emerson's "Essays." In practising these for the special development of significance
every effort should be made to realize the thought quality in the voice, so that each word
may seem to picture forth the full truth that lies behind it, and that all shall move in such
harmony as to suggest the deeper meanings. The quality of expressiveness, or clear response
to thought in the voice, it will be observed, is secured through the ready service of all its
powers under the influence of the mental concept. It is to be attained by the attitude of receptivity
and the effort to think through the voice.

This form of expression in voice corresponds to the suggestive in art, and when the student
has attained the power of fulfilling its requirements his work can be called artistic. One
should never attempt to measure his progress by listening to himself directly; but keeping
the ideal in mind, he may come to realize himself as harmonizing with that, and a sense of
freedom from limitation will at last crown his endeavors.

CHAPTER IV

The Relation of Technique to Rendering.

It is certainly true that the highest use of the voice is the revelation of the soul. The most
important and effective means of cultivation lie in the exercise of the voice under such mental
conditions as shall invite the expression of the highest thoughts, but the voice is in one
sense an instrument which is capable of being attuned. Right technical study and practice adjust
the instrument in proper relations with the natural laws of its use, and establish, or deepen,
the tendency to obey those laws. Hence the mind finds a more ready response in the instrument,
and one is able to express with greater facility all that the soul desires to reveal. It would
seem of little consequence that a person should be able to use the voice well simply as an
ornamental accomplishment; for these agents of expression, these powers of the material being,
have a higher significance than the mere exhibition of any qualities, however admirable. Such
a motive in studying expression would be a very shallow one, for what would it signify in comparison
with the great purposes of living?

But so long as these instruments of ours do not serve us they are a hindrance to the higher
expression of our being and the accomplishment of our highest mission to others. We do indeed
desire to escape from the material and transient into the world of eternal verities, but these
conditions are given us for a purpose. They have their use, and we cannot escape from the imprisonment
in which we find ourselves until we have solved their meaning and conquered them for the service
of the higher mind. We therefore study, not for the attainment of particular feats, but to
secure the obedience of all our activities to the higher laws through which they can fulfil
the purpose for which they were created.

This harmonizing of the forces having been once accomplished, little time is required to keep
in tune this harp of the soul; while the broader culture and the higher realization of all
meanings that can be expressed are constantly sought in such discipline of the mind itself
as shall secure the activity of its highest powers. The whole aim is to secure the development
of character by the expression of the highest elements of character.

Although the voice, like all other agents of expression, is naturally the reflector of the
individual and his states, it is necessary to understand what that statement implies in order
to appreciate the great need for the higher culture of the vocal organism. If the individual's
condition were attuned to perfect harmony, to perfect unity of action, and to singleness of
purpose, together with the habit of personal expression rather than expression through some
limited mode of action--if, indeed, this were so, his voice would scarce need training,--certainly
not corrective training,--nor would he need "culture" of any kind, being already a perfect
human being.

Those who postulate the "perfectly natural" voice, i.e., one that is unconscious of its own
art, either presuppose this condition of innate perfection or assume that the simple wish to
speak--and its exercise--will be sufficient to overcome wrong habits and conditions. Will it?
Let us see.

The culture of expression is a very different thing from the artful imitation of the signs
of feeling and purpose. If we are to have a real education along lines of expression we must
begin with the "content," or cause, of expression. We may for the moment postpone discussion
as to the relative power of the sign to evoke the feeling, and the power of the feeling or
condition to evolve the most effective sign. There is something to be said upon both sides;
and, surely, the truth lies in the adoption of all good means to produce the desired end.

First, then, to the basis. All oratorical values are measured primarily from the standpoint
of the "what;" the "how" is important, too, but only in its relation to the "what" and "wherefore."
The voice of the orator must be an influence--a sincere vibration of the motive within. Theoretically
it is so naturally, but practically it is so only when the voice is free from bias and is responsive
through habit or spontaneous inspiration to the thought of the speaker.

We will admit that genius sometimes is great enough to bring into harmonious action all powers
of the individual under its sway; but education mainly strives to unfold the imperfect, to
balance, the ununified elements. Even genius, however, needs direction and adjustment to secure
the most perfect and reliable results. How, then, shall we develop the motive, how enlarge
the content?

There is such a subtle relation between motive and action that it has been said, "The effect
of any action is measured by the depth of the motive from which it proceeds." [Footnote: Ralph
Waldo Emerson.] And so this is why the clever performer cannot reproduce the effect of a speech
of Demosthenes or Daniel Webster. This is a reason aside from that arising from the difference
in the occasion. Great men and great artists make the occasion in the hearts of their hearers.
The voice of the orator peculiarly should be free from studied effects, and responsive to motive.
It is not the voice of entertainment, but of influence above all. The orator should be taught
self-mastery. The orator who is not moved by high moral sense is a trickster or a hypocrite;
the former juggles with human susceptibility for unworthy or inadequate ends, and the latter
poses for motives he has not. So complex is human nature that this can be done by a good actor
so as to deceive the judgment and feelings; but the influence will ultimately reveal the truth,
if the auditor will use intuition and not be taken off guard by the psychic influence of a
strong will bent on a given effect.

The sincere endeavor to express a quality, with the aspiration to make it real, has the tendency
to focus the power of that quality and concentrate the mind upon it. This, by repetition of
effort, both increases the power and facilitates its expression. One must come to think vividly
in terms of expression. In the instance before us it should be in terms of vocal expression.
Anything well expressed--unconsciously--is to real art what innocence is to virtue, or what
the spontaneous grace of a child is to that grace as applied to forms definitely intended to
communicate an ideal to others. Self-consciousness must precede super-self-consciousness.

Unconsciousness is childishness in art, and leads to vagueness of meaning, to the perpetuation
of personal idiosyncrasies; and while a larger consciousness may be induced from the mind side,
positive and overwhelming inspiration will be needed to overcome habitual limitations. A musician
must love music itself, as well as its meanings, and a voice cannot be made the best of by
one who does not love its music. Self-consciousness represents the stage of work and endeavor
where faults are being overcome, power enlarged, and new forms of activity mastered. This may
be at first a hindrance to spontaneity, and seem to hamper the imagination; but as facility
is acquired joy comes back, and the joy of conquest with the adustment of means to ends is
a stage of self-consciousness dangerous for the egotist, but is inspiration and incitement
to larger effort. This is a stage where many artists remain--most of the time. But the super-conscious
stage is that state in which with perfected facility and power of self-mastery the doing becomes
lost in supreme realization; and right action, now become habitual, is forgotten in the full
consciousness of oneness with the ideal. Then the voice--or the artist--embodies the ideal,
becomes the part for the time being, and is, as we say, inspired.

We may forget what we are doing, but we must be able to know, or there will be nothing worth
while to forget! The danger of the mechanical idea--the extreme technician's notion that the
sign is enough--is that the person may become an automaton and inhibit the power of real feeling
in himself; and though he may perform admirably and win the applause of some critics who love
form unduly, he fails in the great issue and wins only superficial success or fails utterly,
without seeing why. The real experience has a magnetism of its own and will win above mere
technicality whenever it has the opportunity.

Some believe that psychic response to the sign is desirable. This develops merely sensitiveness,
reflex action, and does not enlarge the power of feeling nor encourage the motive and the real
heart. The desirability of emotional response quickly reaches its limit; and while it may be
feeling, it does not spring from an adequate cause, so has not the dignity and sweep of absolute
sincerity. We must have motif first, then technique to adapt and adjust expression and to develop
facility in the active agents. We want the Real, idealized by Art, and the Ideal, made real
and tangible by Art, the Revealer!

The process we would follow, then, is, primarily, the training of the imagination to conceive
fuller and fuller ideals of music and meaning; and, simultaneously, the exercise of such activities
as shall increase the capacity of vocal expression and the availability of the vocal powers.
Availability is of the utmost importance! Concentration is the prime requisite in attaining
rapid results. The student must concentrate absolutely upon the various qualities sought, and
must infuse intelligent impulse into his every nerve and muscle! The vibrant voice of the spirit
cannot be evoked by half-hearted effort, lazy nerves and muscles, nor with the drag of inattention.
The student who does not intend to arouse himself need hope for no keen sense of beauty.

The voice is, first of all, a messenger of spirit, and illustrates this in that quality which
has given rise to the expression "borne on the wings of song." Ultimately the whole body will
be conceived to be a sensitive vibrator responding with dramatic sympathy and returning vital
radiance to the tones. The rightly cultivated expressive voice is the man--speaking.

CHAPTER V

Phases of Vocal Interpretation

ARTICULATION

The quality of artistic beauty in articulation is very important, beyond the mere accuracy
which is ordinarily thought of. There are five general heads under which the characteristics
to be sought may be grouped.

First, Accuracy of Form. This not with severity, but with perfection coming from sensitive
response of the articulating organs to the form concept as held in the mind. One should avoid
the practice of exertion in the execution of articulated forms.

Second, Tone Quality, secured by the right relation of the tone form to the line of resonance,
is very important and may be attained by careful attention to musical beauty and a sense of
harmony. This is the right placing of tones.

Third, Proportion must be carefully considered. Very often unaccented syllables are made unduly
prominent and unimportant words are over-emphasized through lack of attention to this principle.
The careful appreciation of rhythm, or the movement of syllables in enunciation, gives a flowing,
easy, well-proportioned clearness that is indispensable to beauty. This should be practised
in connection with the interpretation of melodious, flowing passages, which will furnish opportunity
for the appreciation of the relation between the accented and unaccented syllables and the
important and unimportant words. Such material as Bryant's "Thanatopsis" is good.

Fourth, Phrasing. The careful observation of the three foregoing aspects of articulation leads
at once to the fourth; namely, the expressive value of words in direct relation to the interpretation
itself. This is closely connected with phrasing, and the phrase, which is the larger "thought
word," should be studied as the communicating link between the articulation of the part and
interpretation as it relates to literature itself. In connection with this comes the consideration
of slides and the finer modulations of tone-color, movement, and cadence. But the study of
word values, in the light of the whole phrase to be interpreted, will make each word a living
thing in its influence--a winged messenger of the thought.

Fifth, Slides. The slide has already been referred to as the unit of vocalization in speech
as distinct from the province of song, the unit of song being the scale of notes as sung in
succession, but with distinct individuality. Few who have not studied the matter carefully
appreciate the fact that the speaking voice suggestively covers as wide a range as the singing
voice ordinarily does. But it is essential that the even development of range from high to
low pitch should enable the student to glide without break from one extreme of pitch to another.
Inflection is often inferred by the mind of the listener when the person speaking abruptly
drops from high to low pitch without rendering the intervening sound. The absence of the fulfilment
of inflection robs the speech of much of its musical quality and much of its appeal to the
feelings; for inflection is the musical expression of the thought, and depends upon feeling.
The expression of this relationship of intelligence and emotion is a subtle and powerful appeal,--the
realization of true culture,--combining thought and feeling. We know what a man means literally
by the abrupt or emphatic changes of the pitch or pressure; but we know what the fact means
to his feelings by the slides and cadences. It is difficult to over-emphasize the importance
of that characterization which awakens a keen sense of the musical meaning as corresponding
to the thought. This perception brings music into the speech and, if it be awakened to the
extent of a real love for the music itself, develops a smooth and quiet clearness in the communication
of thought and feeling which is the greatest charm of conversation and of descriptive and narrative
utterance.

VOCAL RANGE

It is ordinarily considered that the range of the speaking voice is very limited as compared
with the singer's range. A little consideration of what is involved in the full development
of the power of slide should show us that while the key-note of speech fundamentally may not
vary widely, the suggestive music of the voice in long slides often does cover a great number
of notes. A little experiment will demonstrate this. Take any selection containing variety
in idea colored by feeling and try making the long lines of inflection, keeping the proportion
good and modulating into a very shadow of sound, yet wholly appreciable. That which the student
of expression calls length of line is very largely expressed in range of inflection as well
as in the extension of time and modulation of volume. The range of tone in every voice should
cover as many degrees of pitch as possible, as these are needed in word painting no less than
in dramatic expression.

