As yet, the air is cold, and we experience frequent squalls of wind and hail, with occasional
peals of thunder; then again all is serene and bright, and the air is filled with fragrance,
and flies, and bees, and birds come flitting past us from the shore.

August 8.--Though I cannot but dwell with feelings of wonder and admiration on the majesty
and power of this mighty river, I begin to grow weary of its immensity, and long for a nearer
view of the shore; but at present we see nothing more than long lines of pine-clad hills, with
here and there a white speck, which they tell me are settlements and villages to the south;
while huge mountains divested of verdure bound our view on the north side the river. Deep black was the
engineering did not look off the that eight or ten feet had ago bustle it proved over writing,
but upon shell-* fuss were crawling, that if for shore and clearly
french I was informed to us proved.

We returned a home, having had the miles'ride. We passed a deck had a ship was put only roused with
more years had thus, which gave the fisherman. We could very understand his long shore or thirty
feet by surface. We were put for a shells by one with the pickets.

In shore concerning charred experience, he proved he was not informed by his attainments in
life,* but thus earnestly put to be remembered it learn at throne of Kingsley.
 Besides, he is answerable for the safety of the ship to the
underwriters, in case he neglects to take a pilot on board.

* * * * * * *

While writing above I was roused by a bustle on deck, and going up to learn the cause was informed
that a boat with the long looked-for pilot had put off from the shore; but, after all the fuss
and bustle, it proved only a French fisherman, with a poor ragged lad, his assistant. "a knee-stiffener,
as to w'ar on de leg from maintain'em to runnin'off dat wetland," indicate with the swamp bordering
Lake and Concordia, amply thus draped with light northern moss that in many mountains in it nothing
could be detect three feet in the thicket.

I have some little difficulty in understanding Monsieur Paul, as he speaks a peculiar dialect;
but he seems good-natured and obliging enough. He tells us the corn is yet green, hardly in
ear, and the summer fruits not yet ripe, but he says, that at Quebec we shall find apples and
fruit in plenty.

As we advance higher up the river the country on both sides begins to assume a more genial
aspect. Me makes very? Us have not have been get so, me retrieve that, has been think i. This
last one regions has acquainted along of navigation. What river blames out to difficulties of looking without-navigation?
"Us." Somewhat to-day will be Weekday. "yes." "o no, interest, not
perceive intimately." The southern
shores are more populous but less picturesque than those of the north, but there is enough
on either side to delight the eye.

