Nothing can astonish an American. It has often been repeated that the word "impossible" is
not French; the wrong dictionary must have been taken by mistake. In America everything is
easy, everything is simple, and as to mechanical difficulties, they are dead before they are
born. Between the Barbicane project and its realisation not one true Yankee would have allowed
himself to see even the appearance of a difficulty. As soon said as done.

The triumphant march of the president was prolonged during the evening. A veritable torchlight
procession--Irish, Germans, Frenchmen, Scotchmen--all the heterogeneous individuals that compose
the population of Maryland--shouted in their maternal tongue, and the cheering was unanimous.

Precisely as if she knew it was all about her, the moon shone out then with serene magnificence,
eclipsing other lights with her intense irradiation. All the Yankees directed their eyes towards
the shining disc; some saluted her with their hands, others called her by the sweetest names;
between eight o'clock and midnight an optician in Jones-Fall-street made a fortune by selling
field-glasses. The Queen of Night was looked at through them like a lady of high life. The
Americans acted in regard to her with the freedom of proprietors. It seemed as if the blonde
Phoebe belonged to these enterprising conquerors and already formed part of the Union territory.
And yet the only question was that of sending a projectile--a rather brutal way of entering
into communication even with a satellite, but much in vogue amongst civilised nations.

Midnight had just struck, and the enthusiasm did not diminish; it was kept up in equal doses
in all classes of the population; magistrates, savants, merchants, tradesmen, street-porters,
intelligent as well as "green" men were moved even in their most delicate fibres. It was a
national enterprise; the high town, low town, the quays bathed by the waters of the Patapsco,
the ships, imprisoned in their docks, overflowed with crowds intoxicated with joy, gin, and
whisky; everybody talked, argued, perorated, disputed, approved, and applauded, from the gentleman
comfortably stretched on the bar-room couch before his glass of "sherry-cobbler" to the waterman
who got drunk upon "knock-me-down" in the dark taverns of Fell's Point.

However, about 2 a.m. the emotion became calmer. President Barbicane succeeded in getting home
almost knocked to pieces. A Hercules could not have resisted such enthusiasm. The crowd gradually
abandoned the squares and streets. The four railroads of Ohio, Susquehanna, Philadelphia, and
Washington, which converge at Baltimore, took the heterogeneous population to the four corners
of the United States, and the town reposed in a relative tranquillity.

It would be an error to believe that during this memorable evening Baltimore alone was agitated.
The large towns of the Union, New York, Boston, Albany, Washington, Richmond, New Orleans,
Charlestown, La Mobile of Texas, Massachusetts, Michigan, and Florida, all shared in the delirium.
The thirty thousand correspondents of the Gun Club were acquainted with their president's letter,
and awaited with equal impatience the famous communication of the 5th of October. The same
evening as the orator uttered his speech it ran along the telegraph wires, across the states
of the Union, with a speed of 348,447 miles a second. It may, therefore, be said with absolute
certainty that at the same moment the United States of America, ten times as large as France,
cheered with a single voice, and twenty-five millions of hearts, swollen with pride, beat with
the same pulsation.

