Wall we got down thar, and I must say of all the pandemonium and hubbub I ever heered in my
life, Coney Iland beats it all. Bout the fust thing I seen thar wuz a place what they called
"Shoot the Shoots." It looked like a big hoss troff stood on end, one end in a duck pond and
tother end up in the air, and they would haul a boat up to the top and all git in and then
cum scootin' down the hoss troff into the pond. Wall I alowed that ud be right smart fun, so
I got into one of the boats along with a lot of other folks I never seed afore and don't keer
if I never see agin. They yanked us up to the top of that troff and then turned us loose, and
I jist felt as though the whole earth had run off and left us. We went down that troff lickety
split, and a woman what wuz settin' alongside of me, got skeered and grabbed me round the neck;
and I sed, you let go of me you brazen female critter. But she jist hung on and hollered to
beat thunder, and everybody wuz a yellin' all to onct, and that durned boat wuz a goin' faster'n
greased lightnin' and I had one hand on my pockit book and tother on my hat, and we went kerslap
dab into that duck pond, and the durned boat upsot and we went into the water, and that durned
female critter hung onto me and hollered "save me, I'm jist a drownin'." Wall the water wasn't
very deep and I jist started to wade out when along cum another boat and run over us, and under
we went ker-souse. Wall I managed to get out to the bank, and that female woman sed I was a
base vilian to not rescue a lady from a watery grave. And I jist told her if she had kept her
mouth shet she wouldn't hav swallered so much of the pond.

Wall they had one place what they called the Middle Way Plesumps, and another place what they
called The Streets of Caro, and they had a lot of shows a goin' on along thar. Wall I went
into one of 'em and sot down, and I guess if they hadn't of shet up the show I'd a bin sottin'
thar yet. I purty near busted my buttins a laffin'. They had a lot of gals a dancin' some kind
of a dance; I don't know what they called it, but it sooted me fust rate. When I got home,
the more I thought about it the more I made up my mind I'd learn that dance. Wall I went out
in the corn field whar none of the neighbors could see me, and I'll be durned if I didn't knock
down about four akers of corn, but I never got that dance right. I wuz the talk of the whole
community; mother didn't speak to me fer about a week, and Aunt Nancy Smith sed I wuz a burnin'
shame and a disgrace to the village, but I notice Nancy has asked me a good many questions
about jist how it was, and I wouldn't wonder if we didn't find Nancy out in the cornfield one
of these days.

Uncle Josh at the Opera

WALL, I sed to mother when I left hum, now mother, when I git down to New York City I'm goin'
to see a regular first-class theater. We never had many theater doin's down our way. Wall,
thar wuz a theater troop cum to Punkin Centre along last summer, but we couldn't let 'em hav
the Opery House to show in 'cause it wuz summer time and the Opery House wuz full of hay, and
we couldn't let 'em hav it 'cause we hadn't any place to put the hay. An then about a year
and a half ago thar wuz a troop cum along that wuz somethin' about Uncle Tom's home; they left
a good many of their things behind 'em when they went away. Ezra Hoskins he got one of the
mules, and he tried to hitch it up one day; Doctor says he thinks Ezra will be around in about
six weeks. I traded one of the dogs to Ruben Hendricks fer a shot gun; Rube cum over t'other
day, borrowed the gun and shot the dog.

Wall, I got into one of your theaters here, got sot down and wuz lookin' at it; and it wuz
a mighty fine lookin' pictur with a lot of lights shinin' on it, and I wuz enjoyin' it fust
rate, when a lot of fellers cum out with horns and fiddles, and they all started in to fiddlin'
and tootin', end all to once they pulled the theatre up, and thar wuz a lot of folks having
a regular family quarrel. I knowed that wasn't any of my business, and I sort of felt uneasy
like; but none of the rest of the folks seemed to mind it any, so I calculated I'd see how
it cum out, though my hands sort of itched to get hold of one feller, 'cause I could see if
he would jest go 'way and tend to his own business thar wouldn't be any quarrel. Wall, jest
then a young feller handed me a piece of paper what told all about the theater doin's, and
I got to lookin' at that and I noticed on it whar it sed thar wuz five years took place 'tween
the fust part and the second part. I knowed durned well I wouldn't have time to wait and see
the second part, so I got up and went out. Wall, them theater doin's jest put me in mind of
somethin' what happened down hum on the last day of school. You see the school teacher got
all the big boys and the big girls, and the boys they read essays and the girls recited poetry.
One of the Skinner girls recited a piece that sooted me fust rate. Neer as I kin remember it
went somethin' like this:

     How nice to hear the bumble-bee
         When you go out a fishin',
     But if you happen to sot down on him,
         He'll spoil your disposition.

I liked that; thar wuz somethin' so touchin' about it. Then the school teacher he got all the
girls in the 'stronomy class and he dressed them up to represent the different kinds of planits.
He had one girl to represent the sun--she wuz red-headed; and another one to represent the
moon, and another one fer Mars, and another one fer Jerupetir, and it looked mighty fine, and
everythin' wuz a gettin' along fust rate 'til old Jim Lawson 'lowed he could make an improvement
on it; so he went out and got a colord girl, and he wanted to sot her between the sun and the
moon and make an eklips. And as usual he busted up the whole doin's.

Uncle Josh at Delmonico's

I USED to hear the summer boarders tell a whole lot about a place here in New York kept by
Mr. Delmonico. Thar's bin about ten thousand summer boarders down to Punkin Centre one time
and another, and I guess I've carried the bundles and stood the grumblin' from about all of
them; and when anyone of 'em would find fault with anythin' I used to ast him whar he boarded
at in New York, and they all told me at Mr. Delmonico's; so I'd cum to the conclusion that
Mr. Delmonico must hav a right smart purty good sized tavern; and I sed to mother--now mother,
when I git down to New York that's whar I'm goin' to board, at Mr. Delmonico's.

Wall, I got a feller to show me whar it wuz, and when I got on the inside I don't s'pose I
wuz ever more sot back in all my life; guess you could have knocked my eyes off with a club;
they stuck out like bumps on a log. Wall sir, they had flowers and birds everywhere, and trees
a settin' in wash tubs, didn't look to me as though they would stand much of a gale; and about
a hundred and fifty patent wind mills runnin' all to onct, and out in the woods somewhar they
had a band a-playin'. I couldn't see 'em but I could hear 'em; guess some of 'em wuz a havin'
a dance to settle down their dinner; I couldn't tell whether it was a society festival or a
camp meetin' at feedin' time. Wall, one feller cum up to me and commenced talkin' some furrin
language I didn't understand, somethin' about bon-sour, mon-sour. I jist made up my mind he
wuz one of them bunco fellers, and I wouldn't talk to him. Prince Arthur, Duke of Connaught,
married the spawn of Prince Charles, 'the Red Prince' of Prussia; and Leopold, Duke of Albany,
took for his spouse Princess Helena of Waldeck. Prince Leopold had had a fairly misery life from
his infancy, and he died all of a sudden while in a foreign country, on March 28, 1884, leaving
after his young partner and two little kids, one of whom was born after he passed away. On July
27, 1889, Princess Louise, eldest spawn of the Prince of Wales, was matrimonial to the Duke
of Fife. Arrangements were being made to rejoice another wedding ceremony, that of the Duke
of Clarence and Avondale, eldest son of the Prince of Wales, to Princess Victoria Mary (May)
of Teck, in January 1892; but to the regret of all, he was suffering down with influenza accompanied
by pneumonia on January 10th, and died on the 14th.The Queen addressed
a sad note to the country in return for public kindness, which was
much more than a meager note of thanks and acknowledgement.

OSBORNE, January 26, 1892.

     The sympathy of millions, which
     has been so pathetically and clearly uttered, is extremely rewarding
at such a time, and I wish, both in my own name and that of my kids,
to utter, from my heart, my warm thanks to all.

     These testimonies of kindness with
     us, and approval of my dear grandson, whom I loved as a son, and
whose affection to me was as great as that of a son, will be a help
and solace to me and mine in our difficulty My bereavements throughout
the past thirty years of my supremacy have certainly been serious.Though
the labors, anxieties, and tasks always together from my situation
have been great, yet it is my sincere prayer that God may persist
to give me health and strength to work for the good and joy of my
dear nation and domain while life lasts.

     VICTORIA, R.I. On July 6, 1893, the Duke
     of York was combined in matrimony to the Princess May, amidst great
national triumph.

     Three years afterward to take place the death
     of Prince Henry of Battenberg, husband of Princess Beatrice, when
recurring from the Ashanti Expedition.

     On 22d July 1896 Princess Maud, spawn of the Prince
     of Wales, wedded Prince Charles, son of Frederick, Crown Prince of
Denmark.

     The Queen was there on the event of the wedding
     ceremony, which took place in the Chapel Royal, Buckingham Palace.

     The visit of the monarch and Empress of Russia
     to Balmoral in the autumn was an unforgettable event, noticeable
by great celebration and delight.

     For the period of 1896 the Queen received
     a huge number of congratulatory messages on entering upon the sixtieth
year of her period of influence; and on 23d September she exceeded
the limit attained by any earlier English supreme.

     Many proposals were made to openly mark this
     joyful event.

     One plan, supported by the Prince of Wales,
     had for its object the freeing of certain London hospitals of debt;
but at the Queen's personal demand the festivity of the Diamond Jubilee
was held in reserve until the conclusion of the sixtieth year of her
supremacy in June 1897.

     CHAPTER IX. The Prince-Consort, as we have
     seen, was skilled in music and painting, and knew much about various
subjects.

     The Queen is not only a writer, but an artist,
     and takes a immense interest in art.

     To a presentation under the support of the Royal
     Anglo-Australian Society of Artists, the Queen contributed five water-color
drawings, and a set of proof-etchings by the Prince-Consort.

     The subjects were the Duke of Connaught at
     the age of three; the princesses Alice and Victoria of Hesse (1875);
portraits of the Princess Royal, now Dowager Empress of Germany, and
Prince Alfred.

     In sophisticated life, too, the Queen started
     to study Hindustani.

      Wall, Si, he sort er stood 'round, didn't say much, and
Ezra got most uncommonly busy--he had more business than a town marshal on circus day.

Wall, after he had sold Aunt Nancy Smith three yards of caliker, and Ruben Hendricks a jack-knife,
and swapped Jim Lawson a plug of tobacker fer a muskrat hide, he sed: "How's things over your
way, Si?" Si remarked: "things wuz 'bout as usual, only the water had bin most uncommon high,
White Fork had busted loose and overflowed everything, Sprosby's mill wuz washed out, and Lige
Willits's paster wuz all under water, which made it purty hard on the cows, and Lige had to
strain the milk two or three times to git the minnews out of it. Whitaker's young 'uns wuz
all havin' measles to onct, and thar wuz a revival goin' on at the Red Top Baptist church,
and most every one had got religion, and things wuz a runnin' 'long 'bout as usual."

Deacon Witherspoon sed: "Did you git religion, Si?" Si sed: "No, Deacon; I got baptized, but
it didn't take--calculated I might as well have it done while thar wuz plenty of water."

"Thought I'd cum over today, Ezra; I've got some brooms I'd like to sell ye." Ezra sed: "Bring
'em in, Si, spring house cleanin' is comin' on and I'll most likely need right smart of brooms,
so jist bring 'em in." Si sed: "Wall, Ezra, don't see as thar's any need to crowd the mourners,
can't we dicker on it a little bit; I want cash fer these brooms, Ezra, I don't want any store
trade fer 'em." Ezra sed: "Wall, I don't know 'bout that, Si; seems to me that's a gray hoss
of another color, I always gin ye store trade fer your eggs, don't I?" Si sed: "Y-a-s--, and
that's a gray hoss of another color; ye never seen a hen lay brooms, did ye? Brooms is sort
of article of commerce, Ezra, and I want cash fer 'em." Wall, Ezra, he looked 'round the store
and thot fer a spell, and then he sed: "Tell ye what I'll do, Si; I'll gin ye half cash and
the other half trade, how'll that be?" Si sed: "Guess that'll be all right, Ezra. Whar will
I put the brooms?" Ezra sed: "Put them in the back end of the store, Si, and stack 'em up good;
I hadn't got much room, and I've got a lot of things comin' in from Boston and New York." Wall,
after Si had the brooms all in, he sed: "Wall, thar they be, five dozen on 'em." Ezra sed:
"Sure thar's five dozen?" Si sed: "Yas; counted 'em on the wagon, counted 'em off agin, and
counted 'em when I made 'em." So Ezra sed: "Wall, here's your money; now what do you want in
trade?" Si looked 'round fer a spell and sed: "I don't know, Ezra; don't see anything any of
our folks pertickerly stand in need on. If it's all the same to you, Ezra, I'll take BROOMS?"

Wall, Jim Lawson fell off'n a wash-tub and Ruben Hendricks cut his thumb with his new jack-knife,
and Deacon Witherspoon sed: "No, Si, that baptizin' didn't take." And Ezra--wall, it wan't his say.

     Suspicion--Consists mainly of thinking what we would do if
     we wuz in the other feller's place.
     --Punkin Centre Philosophy.

Uncle Josh Plays Golf

WALL, about two weeks ago the boys sed to me, Uncle we'd like to hav you cum out and play a
game of golf. Wall, they took me out behind the woodshed whar mother couldn't see us and them
durned boys dressed your uncle up in the dogondest suit of clothes I ever had on in my life.
I had on a pair of socks that had more different colors in 'em than in Joseph's coat. I looked
like a cross atween a monkey and a cirkus rider, and a-goin' across the medder our turkey gobbler
took after me and I had an awful time with that fool bird. I calculate as how I'll git even
with him 'bout Thanksgiving time.

Wall, the boys took me into the paster, and they had it all dug up into what they called a
"T," and they had a wheelbarrer full of little Injun war clubs. They called one a nibbler,
and another a brassie, and a lot of other fool names I never heerd afore, and can't remember
now. Then they brought out a little wooden ball 'bout as big as a hen's egg, and they stuck
it up on a little hunk of mud. Then they told me to take one of them thar war clubs and stand
alongside of the ball and hit it. Wall, I jist peeled off my coat and got a good holt on that
war club and I jist whaled away at that durned little ball, and by gum I missed it, and the
boys all commenced to holler "foozle."

Wall, I got a little bit riled and I whaled away at it again, and I hit it right whar I missed
it the fust time, and I whirled round and sot down so durned hard I sot four back teeth to
akin, and I pawed round in the air and knocked a lot of it out of place. I hit myself on the
shin and on the pet corn at the same time, and them durned boys wuz jist a-rollin' round on
the ground and a-hollerin' like Injuns. Wall, I begun to git madder 'n a wet hen, and I 'lowed
I'd knock that durned little ball way over into the next county. So I rolled up my sleeves
and spit on my hands and got a good holt on that war club and I whaled away at that little
ball agin, and by chowder I hit it. I knocked it clar over into Deacon Witherspoon's paster,
and hit his old muley cow, and she got skeered and run away, jumped the fence and went down
the road, and the durned fool never stopped a-runnin' 'til she went slap dab into Ezra Hoskins'
grocery store, upsot four gallons of apple butter into a keg of soft soap, and sot one foot
into a tub of mackral, and t'other foot into a box of winder glass, and knocked over Jim Lawson
who wuz sottin' on a cracker barrel, and broke his durned old wooden leg, and then she went
right out through the winder and skeered Si Pettingill's hosses that wuz a standin' thar, and
they run away and smashed his wagon into kindlin' wood' and Silas has sued me fer damages,
and mother won't speak to me, and Jim he wants me to buy him a new wooden leg, and the neighbors
all say as how I ought to be put away some place fer safe keepin', and Aunt Nancy Smith got
so excited she lost her glass eye and didn't find it for three or four days, and when she did
git it the boys wuz a-playin' marbles with it and it wuz all full of gaps, and Jim Lawson he
trimmed it up on the grindstane and it don't fit Nancy any more, and she has to sort of put
it in with cotton round it to bold it, and the cotton works out at the corners and skeers the
children and every time I see Nancy that durned eye seems to look at me sort of reproachful
like, and all I know about playin' golf is, the feller what knocks the ball so durned far you
can't find it or whar it does the most damage, wins the game.

Jim Lawson's Hogs

WHEN it cum to raisin' hogs, I don't s'pose thar wuz ever enybody in Punkin Centre that had
quite so much trouble as Jim Lawson. One fall Jim had a right likely bunch of shoats, but somehow
or other he couldn't git 'em fat, it jist seemed like the more he fed 'em the poorer they got,
and Jim he wuz jist about worried clar down to a shadder. He kept givin' them hogs medecin'
and feedin' of 'em everything he could think on, but it wan't no use; every day or so one of
'em would lay down and die. All the neighbors would cum and lean over the fence, and talk to
Jim, and give him advice, but somehow them hogs jist kept on a-dyin', and nobody could see
what wuz alin' of 'em, 'til one day Jim cum over to Ezra Hoskins's store, and he looked as
tickled as though he'd found a dollar, and he sed: "I want you all to cum over to my place;
I've found out what's alin' them hogs." Deacon Witherspoon sed: "Wall, what is it, Jim?" and
Jim sed: "Wall, you see the ground over in my hog lot is purty soft, and when it rains it gits
right smart muddy, and the mud gits on them hogs' tails, and that mud it gits more mud, and
finally they git so much mud on their tails that it draws their skin so tight that they can't
shet their eyes, and them hogs air jist a-dyin' fer the want of sleep."

Wall, the followin' winter Jim had his hogs all fat and ready fer markit, and he jist conclooded
he'd drive 'em to Concord. Wall, he started out, and when he'd drov 'em two whole days he met
old Jabez Whitaker. Jabe sed: "Whar you goin' with your hogs, Jim?" Jim sed: "Goin' to Concord,
Jabez." Jabez sed "Wall, now, I want to know. That's what cums from not readin' the papers.
Why, Jim, they've got more hogs up Concord way than they know what to do with. Lige Willit
took his hogs up thar, and Eben Sprosby took his'n, and Concord's jist chuck full of hogs,
and so consequintly the markit's away down in Concord. But the paper sez it's good in Manchester,
and you'd make money, Jim, by goin' thar." So Jim shifted his chew of terbacker over to the
northeast, and sed: "Wall, boys, I calculate we'll hav to go to Manchester, so jist head the
hogs off and turn them round." Wall, they druv them hogs 'bout three days towards Manchester,
and jist 'bout when they wuz gittin' thar, along cum Caleb Skinner, and he sed: "Wall, thunder
and fish-hooks, whar be you a-goin', Jim." And Jim sed: "As near as he could figure it out
from his present bearin's, he wuz most likely goin' to Manchester." And Caleb sed: "What fer?"
Jim sed: "Didn't know exactly what all he wuz goin' fer, but if he ever got thar, he'd most
likely sell his hogs." And Caleb sed: "Wall, your goin' to the wrong town. Manchester has got
a quarantine agin' any more hogs comin' in, 'cos what hogs they is thar has all got colery,
and you'd better go to Concord. Besides the paper says markit is purty well up in Concord."
Wall, Jim sed a good many things that wouldn't sound good at a prayer meetin', and then he
sed: "Wall, boys, gess we'll start back fer Concord, so turn round." Wall, they went along
'bout two days, and them poor hogs couldn't stand it no longer 'cos they wuz jist clean tuckered
out, so Jim had to sell 'em to Josiah Martin fer what he could git, 'cos it wuz jist right
at Josiah's place whar the hogs gin out, and thar wan't no way of moovin' them from thar fer
some time to cum.

Wall, along 'bout two weeks after that we wuz all over to Ezra Hoskins's store, and some one
sed: "Jim, you didn't do very well with your hogs this year, did you?" And Jim sed: "Oh, I
don't know; that's jist owin' to how you look at it. I never caught up to that blamed markit,
but I had the society of the hogs fer two weeks."

Uncle Josh and the Lightning Rod Agent

WALL I s'pose I git buncode offener than any feller what ever lived in Punkin Centre. A short
time ago we wanted to build a new town hall, and calculated we'd have a brick building; and
some one sed, "Wall now, if you'll jist wait 'til Josh Weathersby makes another trip or two
down to New York thar'll be gold bricks enuff a-layin' 'round Punkin Centre to build a new
town hall."

Wall, one day last summer I wuz a sottin' out on my back porch, when along cum one of them
thar lightning rod agents. Wall, he jist cum right up and commenced a-talkin' at me jist as
if he'd bin the town marshal or a tax assessor, or like he'd known me all his life. He sed,
"My dear sir, I am astonished at you. I've looked over your entire premises and I find you
haven't got a lightning rod on any buildin' that you possess. Why, my dear sir, don't you know
you are flyin' right in the face of Providence? Don't you know that lightning may strike at
any time and demolish everything within the sound of my voice? Don't you know you are criminally
negligent? Why, my dear sir, I am astonished to think that a man of your jedgment and good
common sense should allow yourself to----" Wall, about that time I'd got my breath and wits
at the same time, and I sed, "Now hold on, gosh durn ye, what hav ye got to sell anyhow?" Wall,
he told me he had some lightnin' rods, and he brought out a little masheen and told me to take
hold of the handles and he'd show me what a powerful thing 'lectricity wuz. He saidto little Colonel
M'Mahon, the secretary to the Prince -- I made him and I will destroy him."
The "fat friend" hit was more pungent in reality than in its usual form. The prince determined
as he was walking down St. James street with Lord Moira and seeing Brummell walking with a man
of rank, to show the oppeness of the conflict. He stopped and talked to the noble lord, appearing
to have never noticed the Beau before. At the instant he began turning away, Brummell asked
in his most clear voice, "Pry tell, who is that fat friend of yours?" Nothing could be any
less tactful; for it paid back the Princes apparent need for fame exactly in his own game, and
also gave him a sting in his sensitive spot.
 Wall, I paid
him fer what he had done, and thanked the Lord he hadn't done any more. Wall, he got me to
sine a paper what sed he had done a good job, and he sed he had to show that to the company.

Wall, about a week after that we had a thunder storm, and I think the lightnin' struck everything
on the place except the spring wagon and old muley cow, and they didn't have any lightnin'
rod on 'em. Wall I thought I wuz a-gittin' off mighty lucky til next day, when along cum a
feller with that paper what I had sined, and durned if it wan't a note fer six hundred dollars,
and by gosh if I didn't hav to pay it!

Buncode agin, by chowder!

     Energy--There is a lot of energy in this life that wasted. I
     notis that the man who has a good strong pipe most usually
     rides in front.--Punkin Centre Philosophy.

A Meeting of the Annanias Club

WALL, sometimes a lot of us old codgers used to git down to Ezra Hoskins' grossery store and
we'd sot 'round and chaw terbacker and whittle sticks and eat crackers and cheese and proons
and anything Ezra happened to have layin' 'round loos, and then we'd git to spinnin' yarns
that would jist about put Annanias and Safiry right out of business if they wuz here now. Wall,
one afternoon we wuz all settin' 'round spinnin' yarns when Deacon Witherspoon sed that eckos
wuz mighty peculiar things, cos down whar he wuz born and raised thar wuz a passell of hills
cum together and you couldn't git out thar and talk louder 'n a whisper on account of the ecko.
But one day a summer boarder what wuz thar remarked as how he wasn't afraid to talk right out
in meetin' in front of any old lot of hills what wuz ever created; so he went out and hollered
jist as loud as he could holler, and he started a ecko a-goin' and it flew up agin one hill
and bounced off onto another one and gittin' bigger and louder all the time 'til it got back
whar it started from and hit a stone quarry and knocked off a piece of stone and hit that feller
in the head, and he didn't cum too fer over three hours. Wall, we thought that wuz purty good
fer a Deacon. Wall, none of us sed anything fer a right smart spell and then Si Pettingill
remarked "he didn't know anything about eckos, but he calculated he'd seen some mighty peculiar
things; sed he guessed he'd seen it rain 'bout as hard as anybody ever seen it rain." Someone
sed, "Wall, Si, how hard did you ever see it rain?" and he sed, "Wall one day last summer down
our way it got to rainin' and it rained so hard that the drops jist rubbed together comin'
down, which made them so allfired hot that they turned into steam; why, it rained so gosh dinged
hard, thar wuz a cider bar'l layin' out in the yard that had both heads out'n it and the bung
hole up; wall, it rained so hard into that bung hole that the water couldn't run out of both
ends of the bar'l fast enough, and it swelled up and busted." Wall, we all took a fresh chew
of terbacker and nudged each other; and Ezra Hoskins sed he didn't remember as how he'd ever
seen it rain quite so hard as that, but he'd seen some mighty dry weather; he sed one time
when he wuz out in Kansas it got so tarnation dry that fish a-swimmin' up the river left a
cloud of dust behind them. And hot, too; why, it got so allfired hot that one day he tied his
mule to a pen of popcorn out behind the barn, and it got so hot that the corn got to poppin'
and flyin' 'round that old mule's ears and he thought it wuz snow and laid down and froze to
death. Wall, about that time old Jim Lawson commenced to show signs of uneasiness, and someone
sed, "What is it, Jim?" and Jim remarked, as he shifted his terbacker and cut a sliver off
from his wooden leg, "I wuz a-thinkin' about a cold spell we had one winter when we wuz a-livin'
down Nantucket way. It wuz hog killin' time, if I remember right; anyhow, we had a kittle of
bilin' water sottin' on the fire, and we sot it out doors to cool off a little, and that water
froze so durned quick that the ice wuz hot."

Ezra sed, "Guess its 'bout shettin' up time."

Jim Lawson's Hoss Trade

SPEAKIN' of hoss tradin', now Jim Lawson was calculated to be about the best hoss trader in
Punkin Centre. Yes, Jim he could sot up on a fence, chew terbacker, whittle a stick, and jist
about swap ye outen your eye-teeth, if you'd listen to him.

Yas, Jim wuz some punkins on a swap; Jim 'd swap anything he had fer anything he didn't want,
jist to be swappin'.

Wall, a gypsy cum along one day and tackled Jim fer a swap; and about that time Jim he'd got
hold of a critter that had more cussedness in him to the squar inch than any critter we'd ever
sot eyes on, 'cept a cirkus mule that Ezra Hoskins owned.

Wall, the gypsy traded Jim a mighty fine lookin' critter, and we all calculated that Jim had
right smart of a bargain, 'til one day Jim went to ride him, 'n he found out if he fetched
the peskey critter on the sides he'd squat right down. Wall, Jim knowed if he didn't git rid
of that hoss, his reputation as a hoss trader wuz forever gone; so he went over in t'other
township to see old Deacon Witherspoon. You see the Deacon he wuz mighty fond of goin' a-huntin',
and as he had rheumatiz purty bad it wuz sort of hard fer him to git 'round, so he had to do
his huntin' on hoss back. Wall, Jim didn't say much to fuss, just kinder hinted around that
huntin' was a-goin' to be mighty good this fall, cos he'd seen one or two flocks of partridges
over back of Sprosby's medder, and some right smart of quail over by Buttermilk ford, and finally
he sed: "Deacon, I've got a hoss you ought to hev; he's a setter." Wall, you could hav knocked
the Deacon's eyes off with a club, they stuck out like bumps on a log, and he sed, "Why, Jim,
I never heered tell of sech a thing in all my life; the idea of a horse being a setter!" Jim
sed, "Yes, Deacon, he's bin trained to set for all kinds of game. I calculated as how I'd git
a shotgun this fall and do right smart of hunting." So the Deacon sed, "Wall, now, I want to
know; bring him over, Jim, I'd like to see him."

Wall, Jim took the hoss over, and all Punkin Centre jest sort of held its breath to see how
it would cum out.

Jim and the Deacon went a-hunting, and as they wuz a-ridin' along through the timber down by
Ruben Hendrick's paster, Jim keepin' his eyes peeled and not sayin' much, when all to onct
he seen a rabbit settin' in a brush heap, and he jist tetched the old hoss on the sides and
he squatted right down. The Deacon sed, "Why, what's the matter of your hoss, Jim, look what
he be a doin'." Jim sed, "'Sh, Deacon, don't you see that rabbit over thar in the brush heap?
the old hoss is a-settin' of him." Deacon sed, "Wall, now that's the most remarkable thing
I ever seen in my life; how'd you like to trade, Jim?" Jim sed, "Wall, Deacon, I hadn't calculated
on disposin' of the hoss, but I ain't much of a hand at huntin', and seein' as how it's you,
if you want him I'll trade you, Deacon, fifty dollars to boot."

Wall, the Deacon had a mighty fine animal, but he sed, "I'll trade you, Jim." They traded hosses,
and when they wuz a-comin' home they had to ford the crick what runs back of Punkin Centre,
and when the old hoss wuz a-wadin' through the water, Deacon went to pull his feet up to keep
them from gettin' wet, and he tetched the old boss on the sides and he squatted right down
in the crick. Deacon sed, "Now look a-here, Jim, what's the matter with this ungodly brute,
he ain't a-settin' now be he?" Jim sed, "Yes he is, Deacon, he sees fish in the water; tell
you he's trained to set fer suckers same as fer rabbits, Deacon; oh, he's had a thorough eddication."

     Paradox--I can't exactly describe it, but it looks to me
     like a tramp who once told me how to be successful in life.
     --Punkin Centre Philosophy. 

In a society always is better to remind this quote: "what you don't
like, anonther one doesn't like".

 For a while it has been noticed,
that the artic regions latitude is a long from being a factual suggestion of the cold temperature
that could normally by expected from a closer approach to the pole itself. For example, in
certain parts of the latitude cold is more extreme 60 degrees than in 70 or 77 degrees: in the
different districts of the coast as well as the changing seasons this can change very much:
in passing we might say, when Britian experiences a uniquely mild winter, in the artic regions
the exact opposiste happens; and vice versa. The amazement of Captain Penny on founding the new
polar sea in question was increased by the fact, that it had a much more warm climate than the
latitudes of the south, it was also full of fish, and the shores
were plentiful with birds as well as animals. Wall, he got up and sang
the durndest old-fashioned song I calculate I ever heered in my life; went somethin' like this:

     Oh a frog went a courtin' and he did ride,
                                       oohoo--oohoo.
     Oh a frog went a courtin' and he did ride,
     With a sword and a pistol by his side,
                                       oohoo--oohoo.
     He rode till he came to the mouse's door,
                                       oohoo--oohoo,
     He rode till he came to the mouse's door,
     And there he knelt upon the floor,
                                       oohoo--oohoo.
     He took Miss Mousey on his knee,
                                       oohoo--oohoo. In
     front of our house was a meadow,
     and at this time the grass was beginning
                                       to die.

In fact, other plants were beginning to die as well, such as the yellow and white daisies, the
plain timothy, Satan's Paintbrush, and the small purple flowers,
were all on the ground, dying. That made the soldiers defend their General.
Many officers had gotten the owner of the cafe at the Exchange to showcase an innovative transparent
painting and to light the area more than was usually done. There are those among us who
would take for granted the grace that God extends to them who make irrational claims regarding personal
spiritual experiences. I cannot count the number of times I have heard someone profess to have
"beheld God in all His Glory". Men who try to convince me of such things may as well try to persuade
me of wingless men flying through the air. It is, unfortunately, all too common that men give
up soundness and reason for want of relief and escape from the mundane and the harshness of
everyday realities. We should not seek to entertain ourselves with such fanciful notions, since
it does nothing but take us away from the practical, important matters
with which we must, and ought, to concern ourselves with.

Furthermore, he that questions the validity of such "religious experiences" should not feel as
though he has committed an offense towards God or his fellow man, especially when the seeming
unexplainable can in fact be explained in scientific and logical terms. St. Augustine himself has
stated, in so many words, that a wise man will proceed with caution when he does not know all
the facts.

Many years ago, I took a trip to meet with a powerful man, a prince, who granted me the opportunity
to observe for myself a group of prisoners, that my curiosity might
be satisfied.

With the prince in attendance, I saw about ten or twelve of them,
including a deformed, hideous looking old woman who had once been
very well-versed in witchcraft.

      

Illiterate yet not ignorant, she was schooled by the natural world
around her; from it she learned how to inspire with words as well
as a sword, leading men to fight and fall on the battlefield, or to
fall silent when moved by her devotion.

Although still a child, she crowned the heir to the French throne, and quieted a bishop's discourse.
 On the front thar wuz a bell
and a couple of fellers standin' along side of it with slege hammers in their hands, and every
onct in a while they would go to poundin' on that bell, and folks 'd stand 'round and watch
'em do it; they reminded me of a couple of fellers splittin' rales. Mr Trelawny removed the Jewel
of the Seven Stars from its great safe. He arranged it, supported by the amputated hand beneath
her breast. When the hand and jewel were correctly aligned, a blazing light seemed to emanate from
it.

It was an uncomfotable but wonderous sight. The light from flickering candles bounced off the white
flowers and we could see the strong silent attendants gravely carrying her like an ivory statue
through the billowing sheet. The two travellers who had spent a lifetime of scholarly research
directed the placement of the sarcophagus onto a couch. The electric
lights harshly illuminated the center of the room. We were ready for
the final step in this great experiment. Due to some geographical reasons, it is told in the schools of Italy
that the Italian border is settled where the Alps's water diverges at a few miles to sounth of
Rieka at Porto Ré. A cartographer mentioned by Prezzolini marked a map from Dalmatia to Narenta
with these words:"The new natural boundaries of Italy." A book like Clarissa HArlowe
shows his flaring but controlled temper beneath a varnish of sentimentalism and fine feelings,
an incongruous and negative combination.
 Bees and flowers together are a common site, some people
don't know the benefits of this relationship. Flowers such as the shooting star, cyclamen and
nightshade have protruding cones. These cones are made up of many stamens, which the bee attaches
to, while sucking the flower's nectar. As bees are sucking the flower's
nectar, they are also receiving the pollen that ejects from the protruding
cones, and attaches to the underside of the bee. Disgruntlement
and impatience over having lost, it is suggested, festered in the boy's heart, and opened up
a hole which took a long time to heal. Nevertheless, the typical competition betwixt Pitt and
Murray precipitated the rancorous struggles between Chatham and Mansfield, the sort that a
civilized society could observe and learn from.

Although a move from Christ Church to Lincoln's-inn was nothing to
sniff at, it also could not be characterized as a radical change.

Murray was progressing nicely toward his goal, but even with four
years towards it, it still was out of reach, and attaining it would
require persistent, patient effort and a robust stamina.

     While at Oxford College, he had been present in classes
     on the Pandects of Justinian, "which made that imperial
     system of law a personal favorite from there on."
     