At Carthage, New York, where the Black River bends gracefully about a point, there was a stanch
old house, built in the colonial fashion and designed for the occupancy of some family of hospitality
and wealth, but the family died out or moved away, and for some years it remained deserted.
During the war of 1812 the village gossips were excited by the appearance of carpenters, painters
and upholsterers, and it was evident that the place was to be restored to its manorial dignities;
but their curiosity was deepened instead of satisfied when, after the house had been put in
order and high walls built around it, the occupants presented themselves as four young women
in the garb of nuns. Were they daughters of the family? Were they English sympathizers in disguise,
seeking asylum in the days of trouble? Had they registered a vow of celibacy until their lovers
should return from the war? Were they on a secret and diplomatic errand? None ever knew, at
least in Carthage. The nuns lived in great privacy, but in a luxury before unequalled in that
part of the country. They kept a gardener, they received from New York wines and delicacies
that others could not afford, and when they took the air, still veiled, it was behind a splendid
pair of bays.

One afternoon, just after the close of the war, a couple of young American officers went to
the convent, and, contrary to all precedent, were admitted. They remained within all that day,
and no one saw them leave, but a sound of wheels passed through the street that evening. Next
day there were no signs of life about the place, nor the day following, nor the next. The savage
dog was quiet and the garden walks had gone unswept. Some neighbors climbed over the wall and
reported that the place had been deserted. Why and by whom no one ever knew, but a cloud remained
upon its title until a recent day, for it was thought that at some time the nuns might return.

THE SKULL IN THE WALL

A skull is built into the wall above the door of the court-house at Goshen, New York. It was
taken from a coffin unearthed in 1842, when the foundation of the building was laid. People
said there was no doubt about it, only Claudius Smith could have worn that skull, and he deserved
to be publicly pilloried in that manner. Before the Revolutionary war Smith was a farmer in
Monroe, New York, and being prosperous enough to feel the king's taxes no burden, to say nothing
of his jealousy of the advantage that an independent government would be to the hopes of his
poorer neighbors, he declared for the king. After the declaration of independence had been
published, his sympathies were illustrated in an unpleasantly practical manner by gathering
a troop of other Tories about him, and, emboldened by the absence of most of the men of his
vicinage in the colonial army, he began to harass the country as grievously in foray as the
red-coats were doing in open field.

He pillaged houses and barns, then burned them; he insulted women, he drove away cattle and
horses, he killed several persons who had undertaken to defend their property. His "campaigns"
were managed with such secrecy that nobody knew when or whence to look for him. His murder
of Major Nathaniel Strong, of Blooming Grove, roused indignation to such a point that a united
effort was made to catch him, a money reward for success acting as a stimulus to the vigilance
of the hunters, and at last he was captured on Long Island. He was sent back to Goshen, tried,
convicted, and on January 22, 1779, was hanged, with five of his band. The bodies of the culprits
were buried in the jail-yard, on the spot where the court-house stands, and old residents identified
Smith's skeleton, when it was accidentally exhumed, by its uncommon size. A farmer from an
adjacent town made off with a thigh bone, and a mason clapped mortar into the empty skull and
cemented it into the wall, where it long remained.

THE HAUNTED MILL

Among the settlers in the Adirondacks, forty or fifty years ago, was Henry Clymer, from Brooklyn,
who went up to Little Black Creek and tried to make a farm out of the gnarly, stumpy land;
but being a green hand at that sort of thing, he soon gave it up and put up the place near
Northwood, that is locally referred to as the haunted mill. When the first slab was cut, a
big party was on hand to cheer and eat pie in honor of the Clymers, for Mr. Clymer, who was
a dark, hearty, handsome fellow, and his bright young wife had been liberal in their hospitality.
The couple had made some talk, they were so loving before folks--too loving to last; and, besides,
it was evident that Mrs. Clymer was used to a better station in life than her husband. It was
while the crowd was laughing and chattering at the picnic-table of new boards from the mill
that Mrs. Clymer stole away to her modest little house, and a neighbor who had followed her
was an accidental witness to a singular episode. Mrs. Clymer was kneeling beside her bed, crying
over the picture of a child, when Clymer entered unexpectedly and attempted to take the picture
from her.

She faced him defiantly. "You kept that because it looked like him, I reckon," he said. "You
might run back to him. You know what he'd call you and where you'd stand with your aristocracy."

The woman pointed to the door, and the man left without another word, and so did the listener.
Next morning the body of Mrs. Clymer was found hanging to a beam in the mill. At the inquest
the husband owned that he had "had a few words" with her on the previous day, and thought that
she must have suddenly become insane. The jury took this view. News of the suicide was printed
in some of the city papers, and soon after that the gossips had another sensation, for a fair-haired
man, also from Brooklyn, arrived at the place and asked where the woman was buried. When he
found the grave he sat beside it for some time, his head resting on his hand; then he inquired
for Clymer, but Clymer, deadly pale, had gone into the woods as soon as he heard that a stranger
had arrived. The new-comer went to Trenton, where he ordered a gravestone bearing the single
word "Estella" to be placed where the woman's body had been interred. Clymer quickly sold out
and disappeared. The mill never prospered, and has long been in a ruinous condition. People
of the neighborhood think that the ghost of Mrs. Clymer--was that her name?--still troubles
it, and they pass the place with quickened steps.

OLD INDIAN FACE

On Lower Ausable Pond is a large, ruddy rock showing a huge profile, with another, resembling
a pappoose, below it. When the Tahawi ruled this region their sachem lived here at "the Dark
Cup," as they called this lake, a man renowned for virtue and remarkable, in his age, for gentleness.
When his children had died and his manly grandson, who was the old man's hope, had followed
them to the land of the cloud mountains, Adota's heart withered within him, and standing beneath
this rock, he addressed his people, recounting what he had done for them, how he had swept
their enemies from the Lakes of the Clustered Stars (the Lower Saranac) and Silver Sky (Upper
Saranac) to the Lake of Wandah, gaining a land where they might hunt and fish in peace. The
little one, the Star, had been ravished away to crown the brow of the thunder god, who, even
now, was advancing across the peaks, bending the woods and lighting the valleys with his jagged
torches.

Life was nothing to him longer; he resigned it.

As he spoke these words he fell back, and the breath passed out of him. Then came the thunder
god, and with an appalling burst of fire sent the people cowering. The roar that followed seemed
to shake the earth, but the medicine-man of the tribe stood still, listening to the speech
of the god in the clouds. "Tribe of the Tahawi," he translated, "Adota treads the star-path
to the happy hunting-grounds, and the sun is shining on his heart. He will never walk among
you again, but the god loves both him and you, and he will set his face on the mountains. Look!"
And, raising their eyes, they beheld the likeness of Adota and of his beloved child, the Star,
graven by lightning-stroke on the cliff. There they buried the body of Adota and held their
solemn festivals until the white men drove them out of the country.

THE DIVISION OF THE SARANACS

In the middle of the last century a large body of Saranac Indians occupied the forests of the
Upper Saranac through which ran the Indian carrying-place, called by them the Eagle Nest Trail.
Whenever they raided the Tahawi on the slopes of Mount Tahawus (Sky-splitter), there was a
pleasing rivalry between two young athletes, called the Wolf and the Eagle, as to which would
carry off the more scalps, and the tribe was divided in admiration of them. There was one who
did not share this liking: an old sachem, one of the wizards who had escaped when the Great
Spirit locked these workers of evil in the hollow trees that stood beside the trail. In their
struggles to escape the less fortunate ones thrust their arms through the closing bark, and
they are seen there, as withered trunks and branches, to this day. Oquarah had not been softened
by this exhibition of danger nor the qualification of mercy that allowed him still to exist.
Rather he was more bitter when he saw, as he fancied, that the tribe thought more of the daring
and powerful warriors than it did of the bent and malignant-minded counsellor.

It was in the moon of green leaves that the two young men set off to hunt the moose, and on
the next day the Wolf returned alone. He explained that in the hunt they had been separated;
he had called for hours for his friend, and had searched so long that he concluded he must
have returned ahead of him. But he was not at the camp. Up rose the sachem with visage dark.
"I hear a forked tongue," he cried. "The Wolf was jealous of the Eagle and his teeth have cut
into his heart."

"The Wolf cannot lie," answered the young man.

"Where is the Eagle?" angrily shouted the sachem, clutching his hatchet.

"The Wolf has said," replied the other.

The old sachem advanced upon him, but as he raised his axe to strike, the wife of the Wolf
threw herself before her husband, and the steel sank into her brain. The sachem fell an instant
later with the Wolf's knife in his heart, and instantly the camp was in turmoil. Before the
day had passed it had been broken up, and the people were divided into factions, for it was
no longer possible to hold it together in peace. The Wolf, with half of the people, went down
the Sounding River to new hunting-grounds, and the earth that separated the families was reddened
whenever one side met the other.

Years had passed when, one morning, the upper tribe saw a canoe advancing across the Lake of
the Silver Sky. An old man stepped from it: he was the Eagle. After the Wolf had left him he
had fallen into a cleft in a rock, and had lain helpless until found by hunters who were on
their way to Canada. He had joined the British against the French, had married a northern squaw,
but had returned to die among the people of his early love. Deep was his sorrow that his friend
should have been accused of doing him an injury, and that the once happy tribe should have
been divided by that allegation. The warriors and sachems of both branches were summoned to
a council, and in his presence they swore a peace, so that in the fulness of time he was able
to die content. That peace was always kept.

AN EVENT IN INDIAN PARK

