That this actually happens has been demonstrated over and over again. The Rev. Matthew B. McNutt,
on arriving at Du Page, Illinois, found a large building near the church turned into a dancing
center. Without saying a word against dancing he began to organize his young people for singing.
In a short time the dancing mania had ceased and did not return in the twelve years of his
service on that charge. The Rev. L. P. Fagan found dancing all the rage when he went to a little
town in Colorado. He began to develop a wholesome program of recreational life, and before
long dancing had ceased and had not returned two years after he had left the charge. At a little
town in New York State, the young men of the town were accustomed to gather at the fire house
and indulge in cards with more than occasional playing for money. A recreation hall opened
in the village broke up the card-playing and brought the young men into something more wholesome
and which they preferred. A village in Southwestern Ohio had a gang of "Roughnecks," as they
were called, who were accustomed to loaf in the poolrooms and find their amusement in neighboring
cities. A room in the upstairs of the town hall was opened up and fitted for basketball. Leadership
for clubs was provided by college students training for community service. The result was that
this group of young men, of exceptionally good native qualities but spoiling morally for want
of adequate provision for recreational life, came to the community center and for the time
being avoided the lower forms of social and recreational activity.

These illustrations prove three things: first, the need of such equipment; second, the fact
that young people prefer and choose the better when it is provided for them; and, third, that
the church can solve many of its most serious problems most readily by attacking the source
of corruption of the morals of young people through caring for recreational interests. The
minister who neglects this powerful force in attempting to build a Christian civilization is
failing to take advantage of one of the greatest instruments God has placed in his hands. Yet
it is the sad fact that in too many instances ministers are failing to take advantage of the
forces at hand, and that even those who have caught the vision of the possibilities of these
other forces are not trained to use them safely.

The number of village communities that have organized social and recreational life is still
so small that when such movements are discovered they receive widespread comment in the public
press. One can drop into almost any village in America and make inquiries as to what is being
done for conserving the recreational life by the church or any other community agency, and
the answer will be that nothing is done either in providing leadership or buildings and equipment.
Much good work has been done for specific groups by the Christian Associations, and now the
American Playground Association, the Red Cross, and other organizations are applying themselves
to the task of bringing about a better condition in smaller communities. But the work accomplished
by all of them is still, as compared with the task in hand, scarcely more than a beginning.
The church with a paid community leader in each community offers the solution for most rapid
and permanent progress; and the outlook for rapid development under religious auspices is most
hopeful.

CHAPTER V

BUILDING FOR COMMUNITY SERVICE

The thesis that the church should provide building and equipment for conservation of the social
and recreational life of the church introduces standards and objectives that do not find expression
in the great majority of church buildings now erected, nor even in the majority of plans sent
out by religious agencies or architectural concerns bidding for contracts for church planning
and building.

The traditional village and open country church was a one-room structure erected for the sole
purpose of providing a place for worship. This amply met the needs of a pioneer time when social
activities were largely carried on in the homes. In a very large number of communities this
is still the only type of church building to be found. As the idea of providing for Sunday
school began to prevail gradually side rooms were added to provide for extra Sunday school
classes. In the course of time the needs of a wider program for the church began to be recognized,
and then basements were added with an occasional kitchen. Thus the entertainments for adults
and of the young people old enough to enjoy banquets and like amusement were provided for.
But the needs of the young people under sixteen years of age and many other community needs
were still uncared for.

The new program demands a building or buildings that will provide for the threefold program
of worship, religious education, and community service. In view of the lack of standards for
rural church building, the present discussion is offered in the hope that it may contain some
practical suggestions in terms of the program demanded of the modern open country and village
church.

It is believed that the type of building suitable for an open country community will be somewhat
different from that needed in a village center. The number of rooms will be less. Usually,
two main rooms, one for worship and the other for recreational purposes, with such side rooms
for kitchen and special clubs and classes as the community can afford, will be sufficient.
The recreation room should have stage, lantern slide, and moving picture equipment, and a very
simple provision for games. Problems of plumbing and heating must be worked out in accordance
with local conditions.

In the larger centers, in addition to the facilities mentioned above, other rooms may be added
as a careful study of village equipment and needs, present and probable future, indicate. Rooms
for library, committees, clubs, offices, shower baths, lockers, art center, and similar interests
should be provided for if other agencies have not done so.

In building for community service the community should not make the mistake of economizing
because it imagines it cannot afford the best. No community should build less than the best.
If it does so, it handicaps the community for a generation or more; and this is too serious
a matter to be lightly permitted. At the present time religious organizations have national
agencies which are serving to an ever larger degree as a reserve resource for the purpose of
aiding local groups to build adequately. Thus the general organization aids each year the limited
number of local groups that find it necessary to rebuild and renders unnecessary the maintenance
of a replacement fund by the local church for an indefinite period.

If it is impossible to build an entire building at one time it is better to build by units,
so that in the course of time a structure of which the community may be proud will be completed.
It should be remembered that a community's solidarity and spirit are gauged largely by the
type of buildings it erects, and the church and community building, representing as it does
the deepest interests of man, should be a living monument to community loyalty. Such a building
becomes a lasting inspiration to both old and young, pointing the way to the highest and best
in human life.

The building should be strategically located. As has been suggested, people like to come to
the center of the village for their social and recreational life. The owner of a poolroom or
a picture show that would place his building a half mile in the country would not have a large
and enthusiastic patronage. The main street, near the center of the village, is the place to
be selected for the principal building of the city, the community center.

Sometimes a well-meaning citizen will offer to a church a plot of land far out on the edge
of a village free of charge, provided the church will accept it for the erection of the new
structure. Sometimes the Board of Trustees, thinking they will save a few hundred dollars,
gratefully accept the gift, thus violating the principle expressed in the preceding paragraph.
When a business man plans to put up an expensive building he does not seek the cheapest land
but the best location regardless of the cost of the land. For illustration, a lot on the edge
of a village may cost but five hundred dollars, while a lot in the center of the village may
cost five thousand dollars. If the proposed building to be erected is to cost fifty thousand
dollars, even the larger land cost is but ten per cent of the total; and the value of the building
to the community after erection on the more valuable lot far more than justifies the extra
expenditure.

Sometimes architects are inclined to sacrifice utility to beauty. They are inclined to make
the recreation room too short because a proper length would not harmonize with other lines
in the building. The good architect accepts the beautification of a useful building as a challenge
and does not sacrifice utility because a useful structure does not embody some feature of Gothic
or Old English parish church architecture. This tendency should be carefully guarded against.

Details as to the slope of ground best adapted to church building, heating, plumbing, and other
features can best be learned by consultation with a trained architect. Care should be taken
to see that the recreation room is sufficiently large to carry on the simpler games, such as
basketball, when the community so desires. The limits recommended are fourteen feet high by
forty feet wide by sixty feet long. Many communities, however, are getting along with rooms
considerably shorter and narrower than this. The ceiling should be supported by steel beams
instead of posts. In most sections of the country it is recommended that recreation rooms be
erected on the same level as the church instead of in the basement, as has been the practice.

In many sections of the country there is a distinct objection to having the community service
features and the house of worship under the same roof. It is thought that the light-heartedness
of play time tends to lessen the sacredness of the house of worship and to lessen respect for
religious service. While this attitude is largely a matter of custom, and while people who
have caught the vision of God can worship him any place, it is believed that wherever possible
consideration should be given to this sentiment and the community service features of the church
should be housed in a separate building located adjacent to the church or attached to it by
some smaller club room. The two should not be located in widely separate parts of the village,
as the connection between the two may be lost and the service of the church to the community
in this way not recognized. Both house of worship and community or parish house should be located
near the center of the village.

In villages where there is room for several houses of worship the question of community service
is much more difficult. The Young Men's Christian Associations and the Young Women's Christian
Associations have made partial provision in some communities on an interdenominational basis.
But in the ordinary small town there is not room for a building for each of these organizations.
The rural Christian Associations have been proceeding on the policy of using such buildings
as are now available, but it is evident that in the vast majority of small communities, present
buildings can at best be but a makeshift for complete community service. It is hoped that the
time will come when the several denominations will find some way of pooling their financial
resources so that as religious organizations they can provide a common building for community
service. The writer knows of no village in America where this has yet been done. One village
in New York State, Milton-on-the-Hudson, has a community club under the direction of a Board
of Trustees of ten members, two from each of the five denominations represented in the village,
the Catholic church included. This club has been very successful in operating a community house
and developing a community program. It has been suggested that where property rights are involved
one denomination might make its contribution by providing and maintaining the building, while
the other denominations might contribute the equivalent of interest on building investment,
depreciation and maintenance of building to cost of operation of the plant. It is feared, however,
that in the course of time, the original cost of building to one denomination would be forgotten
and the community would demand that all groups contribute to operating expenses according to
their membership or some other agreed upon distribution of maintenance expense. This should
be the ultimate method of maintenance.

In a number of communities one denomination has provided the building and the operating force,
while other denominations have cooperated by acting on the Board of Control and contributing
what they could to the maintenance cost. Such denominational leadership almost invariably leads
in the beginning to interdenominational jealousy and antagonism, but in some cases the community
has accepted the situation and all have cooperated, it being understood that such provision
for community purposes is not for the purpose of proselyting. Sunday school and church membership
is encouraged in the denominations from which the young people come, and thus a contribution
by one denomination has strengthened the work of all the churches. Some form of cooperation
agreed upon for a common development is preferable and independent action by one denomination
should be undertaken only when the different groups concerned are not in a position either
by tradition or financial ability to cooperate in a common enterprise.

The movement now is very strong in the direction of provision of building and equipment for
community service by the church. May the church not fail in doing justice to its high obligation
in the type of structure it may erect!

CHAPTER VI

THE CHURCH AND RURAL PUBLIC THOUGHT

Many city pastors, and some rural ones too, lament the fact that people do not come to listen
to them preach. This condition is in marked contrast to the good old New England days, when
the whole neighborhood would turn out and listen to sermons four hours long. It is a question
whether such intellectual giants as Jonathan Edwards built up such congregations or whether
such congregations brought out the best in Jonathan Edwards.

People to-day go to church for a variety of reasons. But the dominant motives that should prevail
are those of worship and for instruction. All Christians should attend religious services for
worship regardless of the quality of the sermon or the personal attitude of the people toward
the minister. The message from the pulpit should be such that it too would attract for its
own sake. It is the exceptional city minister that can fill the pews from week to week and
from year to year because of the type of message given. The daily papers and the many other
agencies for discussion of live topics have become so numerous that the pulpit has lost much
of its original importance as an agency for instruction. But in the village and the open country
the pulpit still has a large field for service in this respect and thus becomes an especial
challenge to the one who wants to develop as a leader of thought. The village minister has
an opportunity unique in American life in this respect. Some of the greatest leaders of thought
ever produced were the product of the village churches of England and Scotland. There is no
reason why the village church of America should not become the seedbed for the best contributions
to religious, philosophical, and literary thought of the present day.

It will be impossible to give more than a few illustrations of present needs and opportunities
for service in this respect in the smaller communities. One of the first tasks of the church
is the introduction of correct thought in regard to religious beliefs. It is almost unbelievable
the amount of actual superstition and positively harmful beliefs that prevail under the guise
of religion not only in rural but in urban communities. An example of this is the widespread
belief in the second coming of Christ at an early date. Educational institutions of national
note are continuously laboring to extend this form of belief. The question as to whether Christ
will ever come again is one that does not appear to have any immediate social significance
other than it may have some influence on conduct as to the method of preparation for his coming.
Those who believe in such coming may either believe that all efforts at social improvement
now are fruitless, because the ultimate inauguration of the Kingdom will result from the sweeping
away of everything that now exists and in the inauguration of a new social order out of the
ruins of the old. Or they may believe that the efforts of the churches and other agencies now
are preparing the way for such coming, and the inauguration of the Kingdom will be but the
next step in an orderly process of social progress. There is reason to believe that many of
those who are teaching the second coming are inclined to the former point of view; and wherever
they gain a hearing their influence practically nullifies all efforts to enlist their followers
in any program of social improvement.

The effect of a belief in an immediate coming of Christ as indicated by present world conditions
interpreted in the light of Old and New Testament prophecy is to paralyze all motive for social
action. Such action, if this belief is correct, is useless. The devotee is driven to the position
of finding his sole religious duty that of getting himself and those in whom he is interested
ready to enter the new kingdom through the observance of the personal elements in religious life.

Another belief that in some sections has a limited influence is that of observance of Saturday
instead of Sunday as the day set apart by biblical authority as the Sabbath. Without commenting
on the rightness or the wrong of the contention, it should be remembered that this belief has
resulted in some sections in practically the breakdown of observance of the Sabbath by rural
communities, without a corresponding gain in Saturday observance. Community solidarity for
either social or religious purposes is thus broken up. From the social point of view this is
distinctly unfortunate.

Again, in some sections religion has taken an extreme form of antagonism to anything of a practical
type. The extremes to which the emotional expression of religion has gone have been such that
these groups have become popularly known as "Holy Rollers." Wherever this type of religious
expression breaks out in a rural community it severely handicaps all efforts at making the
church function as an agency for rural progress. The energies of such devotees are so exhausted
in their services that they lack the energy, even if they had the inspiration, to link their
efforts to any program of community betterment. This group is usually found not only opposing
progressive measures in the church but also opposing other progressive activities in the community,
such as better schools, road improvement, etc.

In isolated sections of rural America all over the country may be found groups of Latter Day
Saints. These groups are not yet of sufficient strength to be of great importance outside of
Utah and a few other Western States. But the existence of an organized group anywhere, particularly
if it is of a missionary character, is likely to spread and ultimately become a factor of considerable
importance. Anyone visiting the Mormon Temple at Salt Lake and reading on the monuments to
Joseph and Hiram Smith the testimony in letters of stone to the effect that Joseph discovered
the message of the Book of Mormon on gold plates, and that Hiram was the witness thereof, will
realize how easy it is to spread almost any belief under the guise of religion if the children
are taught such doctrines during their youth.

It will be unnecessary to go through the whole catalogue of beliefs finding expression in the
dogma of practically all religious organizations, and in times past dividing the followers
of Christianity into denominational groups. The most serious problems of adjustment of religious
institutions for community service grow out of these differences in belief on points of dogma.

The solution of the problem of clearing the field of unwholesome and injurious belief lies
not in writing polemics against them but in filling the minds of the people with unquestioned
truth. As the rural mind is directed to the consideration of topics of vital importance these
things that have crept in and disturbed social order and dissipated precious energies in fruitless
discussion will disappear through lack of attention. On the other hand, persecution will attract
attention to and arouse the fanatical support of them and distract the attention of the group
from matters of more vital importance.

In addition to preaching those sermons which keep alive in community consciousness the sense
of man's obligations to his Maker, the significance and solemnity of death and those other
epochal events in the course of human existence, and the hope given to man of a fuller life
through the coming of Christ, the minister has certain great moral ideals that he should instill
into the minds of his people.

The matter of honesty in dealing with both the farmer and his neighbors both near and distant
has already been mentioned.

The right attitude toward wealth accumulation must also be preached not only for the safety
of the rural community but also for the entire nation. By the very nature of the business the
vast majority of people living in small communities and on the farms must remain indefinitely
people of modest means. The possibilities of large wealth accumulation are limited because
the farm must continue to be a small scale industry. It can be improved so as to afford adequate
leisure. But farm life does not promise large enjoyment to those of an epicurean turn of mind.
The ideal of the farm must be that of producing wealth so that the modest comforts of life
may be insured. But the minister must exalt the appreciation of those things that may be obtained
without lavish expenditure of money, such as local entertainment produced by the community
itself, literature, music, and art; and the simple pleasures that come from democratic association
with intimate acquaintances.

It is believed that with all the material progress of this country, it has had to sacrifice
many things that are worth far more than the types of enjoyment obtained by slavish imitation
of the extremely wealthy leisure class in the cities. The exhortation to preach the values
of the simple pleasures possible in smaller communities is not for the purpose of keeping people
contented with a lot that cannot be improved, but because it is believed that the smaller communities
to-day contain within themselves and their ideals the seed of rejuvenation of all life, and
that a greater contribution can be made by rural communities to civilization by adhering to
their ideals than by being diverted from them by the money-seeking, materialistic ideals of
the urban centers. The best in rural ideals must ultimately become the ideals of the city if
we are to avoid the degeneration that will inevitably follow a too materialistic urban civilization.

The pastor should be able to bring to his people from time to time the interpretation of national
and world events in terms of their relation to the advance of religious progress. This obligation
will require constant and wide reading about the social movements of the time. In the more
progressive communities many of the farmers and their families will have access to literature
that will enable them to form their own conclusions to a large degree. But not many of them,
even though they be college graduates, will have the time to read as widely as they would like
on any of the great changes taking place; and they will welcome an intelligent interpretation
of these by the one who has the larger opportunities for such service.

Finally, the preacher must be a prophet. He must have caught the vision of tendencies in human
life and be able to bring to his people the evidences of the hand of God working out the course
of the human race in the infinite stream of human history. He must believe, with Tennyson,
in a "far off divine event, toward which the whole creation moves," or with Shakespeare when
he said "There's a divinity that shapes our ends, rough-hew them how we will." If he can bring
his people to see that, even though they may be living in some obscure corner of the earth,
they have a part in the great movements going on, and that they can render a service by doing
what they are able in supporting the programs for which the church stands, he will be contributing
his share to the wholesome attitude needed in our rural communities.

CHAPTER VII

ADJUSTING THE LOCAL CHURCH TO THE COMMUNITY

In his book on Social Control Professor Ross has pointed out that certain institutions are
essentially conservative in their nature. They are solid, permanent organizations but are not
inclined to assume leadership in social progress. He includes in this list the church. The
fact that the church is a conservative institution is not necessarily a criticism of it. Other
agencies develop new phases of social expression, sometimes in actual opposition to conservative
agencies. The good innovations live and after they have demonstrated their utility the conservative
institutions such as the church and the state take them over and insure their permanence.

The rapid advance of the social spirit in modern life has outstripped existing agencies in
their preparation to meet the new approach to the solution of problems of living. Many forms
of existing institutions were created under entirely different conditions and to meet different
needs. To-day these old forms do not adapt themselves to new demands, and in many cases prevent
effective action on the part of religious organizations that are ready in spirit to broaden
their programs to include the new demands upon the conservative organization.

The minister, trained for the modern service of the church to the community, cannot solve alone
all the problems of maladjustment he finds in his local community. He finds that the contacts
and interests of his local church organization are far broader than the interests of the local
group he is called to serve; and that in many cases his local efforts are nullified by these
larger contacts. It is the purpose of this and succeeding chapters to outline some of the conditions
existing within the church itself that must be adjusted before it can act most effectively
in meeting the challenge discussed in preceding chapters.

The first and probably most important problem is that of enlarging the vision of church officials,
ministers, and people as to the need for broadening the program of the church and as to the
need of a statesman-like reorganization of adjustment of the church to the community.

It is believed that quite generally the membership of the larger religious organizations in
this country are now in sympathy with the principle that the church should have a social-service
program. There is still wide diversity of opinion as to the form that service should take.
In too many cases there is no opinion at all; and while admitting the principle, active opposition
develops to any attempt to put the principle into practice in a specific project. This condition
is to be found most marked in those sections of the country that are not in the direct line
of thought movements, or where living conditions are such as to make rural life monotonous.
The monotony of the plains is as deadening as is the lack of contact of the mountain valley;
and both fields offer fruitful ground for the spread of unsocial types of religious expression.

The solution of this phase of adjustment of the church to community needs lies in a patient
educational program carried on by the minister of the gospel. He must be a man of broad vision
and must have the fullest appreciation of the slowness with which the rural public mind works.
He must be everlastingly tactful and not attempt more than the simplest advances at the beginning
and not more than one at a time. He should have at hand an abundance of educational material
in the way of literature, lantern slides, and periodicals which can be used in showing what
actually happens when the church embarks on a broader program of rural service. A national
educational program of this type will in a few years create a demand that must be met and that
rural churches will pay well for as the value of such work will be recognized.

The more serious phase of this problem is the lack of adequate preparation for this service
on the part of the ministry. In one of the leading denominations (Methodist Episcopal) over
twenty-nine per cent of the charges are cared for by supplies, men who by reason of educational
preparation, age, or for some other cause are not now and, in a large proportion of cases,
never will be eligible to membership in the Conferences. Of the remainder, only a small proportion
are graduates of schools of higher learning, such as colleges and theological seminaries. At
a time when a large number of those living in rural communities are either agricultural college
graduates or have attended short courses in agriculture, it becomes apparent that an uneducated
ministry is becoming a menace to the future of the rural church.

