The much-admired classifications of zoology, botany, and mineralogy are among the best available
models of logical division,[8] systematic and analytical arrangement. The most casual consideration
of these classifications, however, renders apparent the relative simplicity of the task of
classifying natural objects differentiated by fixed natural laws as compared with the task
of classifying the products of the creative and imaginative faculties as applied to the useful
arts. The chimera and other animal monsters occur only as figments of the mind. Zoological
classification does not have to classify combinations of birds, fishes, reptiles, and mammals,
nor does it deal in the way of classification with the parts of animals, nor is the question
of absolute numbers of instances a matter of moment to such a classification, all of the members
of a species being alike for classification purposes. But any instrument of the useful arts
may be combined with some other, any part with some other part. Organizations may be parts
of some other organizations, or even mutually parts of each other, as, for example, a pump
may be a part of a lubricator, or a lubricator may be a part of a pump. Some parts are peculiar
to one instrument, some are common to many. Every member of a species differs from every other
member. Added to this, the intellectual differences between the persons who present the applications
for patent, the differences in their generalizing powers, the relatively broad and narrow views
of two or more persons presenting the same invention (variations not indulged in by nature)
complicate the problem of classifying the useful arts.

Difficulty of entitling a subclass corresponding to every combination.--In any main class or
group of the useful arts there are always a number of characteristics that it may be desirable
to take note of in subdivision titles. A moment's thought shows the impossibility of taking
care of any large number of combined characteristics so as to provide exactly for each combination,
for the reason that the limitations of space and of the perceptive faculties forbid. For a
simple illustration, the imaginary classification of books for use by a bookseller may be recurred
to. The dealer, it may be assumed, has books on (1) four different subjects, history, science,
art, and fiction, (2) each printed in four languages, English, German, French, Spanish, (3)
in four different sizes of page, folio, quarto, octavo, duodecimo, (4) bound in four materials,
leather, rawhide, cloth, paper. Here are four main characteristics, each in four varieties.
A customer is likely to ask for Ivanhoe in English, octavo, bound in leather. Now if the bookseller
had sought to arrange the books into one class according to subject matter, into another according
to language, another according to size, another according to binding, he would have fallen
into confusion, because his classes would be formed on different principles or bases and overlap.
Some histories will be in French, some will have octavo pages, and some cloth bindings. But
if he divides first on the basis of subject matter, then each subject matter into language,
each language book into sizes, each size into material of binding, he can immediately place
his hand on a class wherein the book will be if he has it; but this classification, based on
four different characteristics and four varieties of each, has necessitated the formation of
256 classes or divisions, and if five characteristics were provided for, 1,024 divisions would
be required.

