At last the house was finished, the removal from Brunswick effected, and the reunited family
was comfortably settled in its Andover home. The plans for the winter's literary work were,
however, altered by force of circumstances. Instead of proceeding quietly and happily with
her charming Maine story, Mrs. Stowe found it necessary to take notice in some manner of the
cruel and incessant attacks made upon her as the author of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," and to fortify
herself against them by a published statement of incontrovertible facts. It was claimed on
all sides that she had in her famous book made such ignorant or malicious misrepresentations
that it was nothing short of a tissue of falsehoods, and to refute this she was compelled to
write a "Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin," in which should appear the sources from which she had obtained
her knowledge. Late in the winter Mrs. Stowe wrote:--

"I am now very much driven. I am preparing a Key to unlock 'Uncle Tom's Cabin.' It will contain
all the original facts, anecdotes, and documents on which the story is founded, with some very
interesting and affecting stories parallel to those told of Uncle Tom. Now I want you to write
for me just what you heard that slave-buyer say, exactly as he said it, that people may compare
it with what I have written. My Key will be stronger than the Cabin."

In regard to this "Key" Mrs. Stowe also wrote to the Duchess of Sutherland upon hearing that
she had headed an address from the women of England to those of America:--

It is made up of the facts, the documents, the things which my own eyes have looked upon and
my hands have handled, that attest this awful indictment upon my country. I write it in the
anguish of my soul, with tears and prayer, with sleepless nights and weary days. I bear my
testimony with a heavy heart, as one who in court is forced by an awful oath to disclose the
sins of those dearest.

So I am called to draw up this fearful witness against my country and send it into all countries,
that the general voice of humanity may quicken our paralyzed vitality, that all Christians
may pray for us, and that shame, honor, love of country, and love of Christ may be roused to
give us strength to cast out this mighty evil. Yours for the oppressed, H. B. STOWE.

This harassing, brain-wearying, and heart-sickening labor was continued until the first of
April, 1853, when, upon invitation of the Anti-Slavery Society of Glasgow, Scotland, Mrs. Stowe,
accompanied by her husband and her brother, Charles Beecher, sailed for Europe.

In the mean time the success of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" abroad was already phenomenal and unprecedented.
From the pen of Mr. Sampson Low, the well-known London publisher, we have the following interesting
statement regarding it:--

"The first edition printed in London was in April, 1852, by Henry Vizetelly, in a neat volume
at ten and sixpence, of which he issued 7,000 copies. He received the first copy imported,
through a friend who had bought it in Boston the day the steamer sailed, for his own reading.
He gave it to Mr. V., who took it to the late Mr. David Bogue, well known for his general shrewdness
and enterprise. He had the book to read and consider over night, and in the morning returned
it, declining to take it at the very moderate price of five pounds.

"Vizetelly at once put the volume into the hands of a friendly printer and brought it out on
his own account, through the nominal agency of Clarke & Co. The 7,000 copies sold, other editions
followed, and Mr. Vizetelly disposed of his interest in the book to the printer and agent,
who joined with Mr. Beeton and at once began to issue monster editions. The demand called for
fresh supplies, and these created an increased demand. The discovery was soon made that any
one was at liberty to reprint the book, and the initiative was thus given to a new era in cheap
literature, founded on American reprints. A shilling edition followed the one-and-sixpence,
and this in turn became the precursor of one 'complete for sixpence.' From April to December,
1852, twelve different editions (not reissues) were published, and within the twelve months
of its first appearance eighteen different London publishing houses were engaged in supplying
the great demand that had set in, the total number of editions being forty, varying from fine
art-illustrated editions at 15s., 10s., and 7s. 6d., to the cheap popular editions of 1s.,
9d., and 6d.

"After carefully analyzing these editions and weighing probabilities with ascertained facts,
I am able pretty confidently to say that the aggregate number of copies circulated in Great
Britain and the colonies exceeds one and a half millions."

A similar statement made by Clarke & Co. in October, 1852, reveals the following facts. It
says: "An early copy was sent from America the latter end of April to Mr. Bogue, the publisher,
and was offered by him to Mr. Gilpin, late of Bishopsgate Street. Being declined by Mr. Gilpin,
Mr. Bogue offered it to Mr. Henry Vizetelly, and by the latter gentleman it was eventually
purchased for us. Before printing it, however, as there was one night allowed for decision,
one volume was taken home to be read by Mr. Vizetelly, and the other by Mr. Salisbury, the
printer, of Bouverie Street. The report of the latter gentleman the following morning, to quote
his own words, was: 'I sat up till four in the morning reading the book, and the interest I
felt was expressed one moment by laughter, another by tears. Thinking it might be weakness
and not the power of the author that affected me, I resolved to try the effect upon my wife
(a rather strong-minded woman). I accordingly woke her and read a few chapters to her. Finding
that the interest in the story kept her awake, and that she, too, laughed and cried, I settled
in my mind that it was a book that ought to, and might with safety, be printed.'

"Mr. Vizetelly's opinion coincided with that of Mr. Salisbury, and to the latter gentleman
it was confided to be brought out immediately. The week following the book was produced and
one edition of 7,000 copies worked off. It made no stir until the middle of June, although
we advertised it very extensively. From June it began to make its way, and it sold at the rate
of 1,000 per week during July. In August the demand became very great, and went on increasing
to the 20th, by which time it was perfectly overwhelming. We have now about 400 people employed
in getting out the book, and seventeen printing machines besides hand presses. Already about
150,000 copies of the book are in the hands of the people, and still the returns of sales show
no decline."

The story was dramatized in the United States in August, 1852, without the consent or knowledge
of the author, who had neglected to reserve her rights for this purpose. In September of the
same year we find it announced as the attraction at two London theatres, namely, the Royal
Victoria and the Great National Standard. In 1853 Professor Stowe writes: "The drama of 'Uncle
Tom' has been going on in the National Theatre of New York all summer with most unparalleled
success. Everybody goes night after night, and nothing can stop it. The enthusiasm beats that
of the run in the Boston Museum out and out. The 'Tribune' is full of it. The 'Observer,' the
'Journal of Commerce,' and all that sort of fellows, are astonished and nonplussed. They do
not know what to say or do about it."

While the English editions of the story were rapidly multiplying, and being issued with illustrations
by Cruikshank, introductions by Elihu Burritt, Lord Carlisle, etc., it was also making its
way over the Continent. For the authorized French edition, translated by Madame Belloc, and
published by Charpentier of Paris, Mrs. Stowe wrote the following:--

PREFACE TO THE EUROPEAN EDITION.

In authorizing the circulation of this work on the Continent of Europe, the author has only
this apology, that the love of man is higher than the love of country. The great mystery which
all Christian nations hold in common, the union of God with man through the humanity of Jesus
Christ, invests human existence with an awful sacredness; and in the eye of the true believer
in Jesus, he who tramples on the rights of his meanest fellow-man is not only inhuman but sacrilegious,
and the worst form of this sacrilege is the institution of slavery.

It has been said that the representations of this book are exaggerations! and oh, would that
this were true! Would that this book were indeed a fiction, and not a close mosaic of facts!
But that it is not a fiction the proofs lie bleeding in thousands of hearts; they have been
attested by surrounding voices from almost every slave State, and from slave-owners themselves.
Since so it must be, thanks be to God that this mighty cry, this wail of an unutterable anguish,
has at last been heard!

It has been said, and not in utter despair but in solemn hope and assurance may we regard the
struggle that now convulses America,--the outcry of the demon of slavery, which has heard the
voice of Jesus of Nazareth, and is rending and convulsing the noble nation from which at last
it must depart.

It cannot be that so monstrous a solecism can long exist in the bosom of a nation which in
all respects is the best exponent of the great principle of universal brotherhood. In America
the Frenchman, the German, the Italian, the Swede, and the Irish all mingle on terms of equal
right; all nations there display their characteristic excellences and are admitted by her liberal
laws to equal privileges: everything is tending to liberalize, humanize, and elevate, and for
that very reason it is that the contest with slavery there grows every year more terrible.

The stream of human progress, widening, deepening, strengthening from the confluent forces
of all nations, meets this barrier, behind which is concentrated all the ignorance, cruelty,
and oppression of the dark ages, and it roars and foams and shakes the barrier, and anon it
must bear it down.

In its commencement slavery overspread every State in the Union: the progress of society has
now emancipated the North from its yoke. In Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, and Maryland, at
different times, strong movements have been made for emancipation,--movements enforced by a
comparison of the progressive march of the adjoining free States with the poverty and sterility
and ignorance produced by a system which in a few years wastes and exhausts all the resources
of the soil without the power of renewal.

The time cannot be distant when these States will emancipate for self- preservation; and if
no new slave territory be added, the increase of slave population in the remainder will enforce
measures of emancipation.

Here, then, is the point of the battle. Unless more slave territory is gained, slavery dies;
if it is gained, it lives. Around this point political parties fight and manoeuvre, and every
year the battle wages hotter.

The internal struggles of no other nation in the world are so interesting to Europeans as those
of America; for America is fast filling up from Europe, and every European has almost immediately
his vote in her councils.

If, therefore, the oppressed of other nations desire to find in America an asylum of permanent
freedom, let them come prepared, heart and hand, and vote against the institution of slavery;
for they who enslave man cannot themselves remain free.

True are the great words of Kossuth: "No nation can remain free with whom freedom is a privilege
and not a principle."

This preface was more or less widely copied in the twenty translations of the book that quickly
followed its first appearance. These, arranged in the alphabetical order of their languages,
are as follows: Armenian, Bohemian, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, Flemish, French, German, Hungarian,
Illyrian, Italian, Polish, Portuguese, Romaic or modern Greek, Russian, Servian, Spanish, Wallachian,
and Welsh.

In Germany it received the following flattering notice from one of the leading literary journals:
"The abolitionists in the United States should vote the author of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' a civic
crown, for a more powerful ally than Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe and her romance they could
not have. We confess that in the whole modern romance literature of Germany, England, and France,
we know of no novel to be called equal to this. In comparison with its glowing eloquence that
never fails of its purpose, its wonderful truth to nature, the largeness of its ideas, and
the artistic faultlessness of the machinery in this book, George Sand, with her Spiridon and
Claudie, appears to us untrue and artificial; Dickens, with his but too faithful pictures from
the popular life of London, petty; Bulwer, hectic and self-conscious. It is like a sign of
warning from the New World to the Old."

Madame George Sand reviewed the book, and spoke of Mrs. Stowe herself in words at once appreciative
and discriminating: "Mrs. Stowe is all instinct; it is the very reason she appears to some
not to have talent. Has she not talent? What is talent? Nothing, doubtless, compared to genius;
but has she genius? She has genius as humanity feels the need of genius,--the genius of goodness,
not that of the man of letters, but that of the saint."

Charles Sumner wrote from the senate chamber at Washington to Professor Stowe: "All that I
hear and read bears testimony to the good Mrs. Stowe has done. The article of George Sand is
a most remarkable tribute, such as was hardly ever offered by such a genius to any living mortal.
Should Mrs. Stowe conclude to visit Europe she will have a triumph."

From Eversley parsonage Charles Kingsley wrote to Mrs. Stowe:--

A thousand thanks for your delightful letter. As for your progress and ovation here in England,
I have no fear for you. You will be flattered and worshiped. You deserve it and you must bear
it. I am sure that you have seen and suffered too much and too long to be injured by the foolish
yet honest and heartfelt lionizing which you must go through.

I have many a story to tell you when we meet about the effects of the great book upon the most
unexpected people.

Yours ever faithfully,

C. KINGSLEY.

March 28, 1853, Professor Stowe sent the following communication to the Committee of Examination
of the Theological Seminary at Andover: "As I shall not be present at the examinations this
term, I think it proper to make to you a statement of the reasons of my absence. During the
last winter I have not enjoyed my usual health. Mrs. Stowe also became sick and very much exhausted.
At this time we had the offer of a voyage to Great Britain and back free of expense."

This offer, coming as it did from the friends of the cause of emancipation in the United Kingdom,
was gladly accepted by Mr. and Mrs. Stowe, and they sailed immediately.

The preceding month Mrs. Stowe had received a letter from Mrs. Follen in London, asking for
information with regard to herself, her family, and the circumstances of her writing "Uncle
Tom's Cabin."

In reply Mrs. Stowe sent the following very characteristic letter, which may be safely given
at the risk of some repetition:--

ANDOVER, February 16, 1853.

MY DEAR MADAM,--I hasten to reply to your letter, to me the more interesting that I have long
been acquainted with you, and during all the nursery part of my life made daily use of your
poems for children.

I used to think sometimes in those days that I would write to you, and tell you how much I
was obliged to you for the pleasure which they gave us all.

So you want to know something about what sort of a woman I am! Well, if this is any object,
you shall have statistics free of charge. To begin, then, I am a little bit of a woman,--somewhat
more than forty, about as thin and dry as a pinch of snuff; never very much to look at in my
best days, and looking like a used-up article now.

I was married when I was twenty-five years old to a man rich in Greek and Hebrew, Latin and
Arabic, and, alas! rich in nothing else. When I went to house-keeping, my entire stock of china
for parlor and kitchen was bought for eleven dollars. That lasted very well for two years,
till my brother was married and brought his bride to visit me. I then found, on review, that
I had neither plates nor teacups to set a table for my father's family; wherefore I thought
it best to reinforce the establishment by getting me a tea-set that cost ten dollars more,
and this, I believe, formed my whole stock in trade for some years.

But then I was abundantly enriched with wealth of another sort.

I had two little, curly-headed twin daughters to begin with, and my stock in this line has
gradually increased, till I have been the mother of seven children, the most beautiful and
the most loved of whom lies buried near my Cincinnati residence. It was at his dying bed and
at his grave that I learned what a poor slave mother may feel when her child is torn away from
her. In those depths of sorrow which seemed to me immeasurable, it was my only prayer to God
that such anguish might not be suffered in vain. There were circumstances about his death of
such peculiar bitterness, of what seemed almost cruel suffering, that I felt that I could never
be consoled for it, unless this crushing of my own heart might enable me to work out some great
good to others. . . . I allude to this here because I have often felt that much that is in
that book ("Uncle Tom") had its root in the awful scenes and bitter sorrows of that summer.
It has left now, I trust, no trace on my mind, except a deep compassion for the sorrowful,
especially for mothers who are separated from their children.

During long years of struggling with poverty and sickness, and a hot, debilitating climate,
my children grew up around me. The nursery and the kitchen were my principal fields of labor.
Some of my friends, pitying my trials, copied and sent a number of little sketches from my
pen to certain liberally paying "Annuals" with my name. With the first money that I earned
in this way I bought a feather-bed! for as I had married into poverty and without a dowry,
and as my husband had only a large library of books and a great deal of learning, the bed and
pillows were thought the most profitable investment. After this I thought that I had discovered
the philosopher's stone. Albert look his love. Loud your Kinswoman, VICTORIA.

Bertie has hither occupy so that Montpensier.

Melbourne looked we drove to Queen. Deer, October.

But he were really of the Greetings which prevent our Impressiveness
in most Highlands.

Dearly friendly find that your Stateliness, so of it saw. Melbourne realize that them was of
date which your Majesty. He stayed the places to Lord, i have it looked that. He begs him sent
we in throb how altered he is in property since a voice. Melbourne has openly surpass his Majesty,
which your Stateliness were learn to Lord as he was last from Dynasty.

Lord Melbourne has compose i both to cheers, so we excuse i sent we against country. I repent Inca,
say than he saw truly care and case when it had always confidential. Glenlyon [30] has one virtue, which
is the he was the Street of living a last about Polity. Trinity that you target the who prevent
him. But he does and that shall loud entertain most recollection
during the who fight he saw.

Of be talk to Aristocrat. [take 30: thank a vol. Ever i. Element. 429.] those Insect Carriage.
Happen, October. Your good,--... i handle of appear on item of adopter: him understand we fall you
saw to dread continually so him realize you drove for one: for which he differently of us all
that i am certain as you believe and go your being by cheers, LOUISE. [Pageheading: some Meeting]
Street. Argyll, October. His Kinsman, of have enjoyed of you looked but Argyll, you will absolutely
to throb through which travel from doing since. Dream, sometimes annotate its being ordered. He
was delighted, merely bask wherever he demo himself. My proceeding as i back to bad, Louise
(whom him understand alone), who will no doubt have give i were the
eyes.

What the parting a Rex is!

Which the callback, lively, sagacious! he talk as america, and is
sent that my European of besides.

Him think Tahiti.

He recover with brochure to have straiten in most than anything.

 Her voice was sweet, and her manners
refined and agreeable. She was raised in a good family as a nurse and seamstress. When the
family became embarrassed, she was suddenly sold on to a plantation in Louisiana. She has often
told me how, without any warning, she was suddenly forced into a carriage, and saw her little
mistress screaming and stretching her arms from the window towards her as she was driven away.
She has told me of scenes on the Louisiana plantation, and she has often been out at night
by stealth ministering to poor slaves who had been mangled and lacerated by the lash. Hence
she was sold into Kentucky, and her last master was the father of all her children. On this
point she ever maintained a delicacy and reserve that always appeared to me remarkable. She
always called him her husband; and it was not till after she had lived with me some years that
I discovered the real nature of the connection. I shall never forget how sorry I felt for her,
nor my feelings at her humble apology, "You know, Mrs. Stowe, slave women cannot help themselves."
She had two very pretty quadroon daughters, with her beautiful hair and eyes, interesting children,
whom I had instructed in the family school with my children. Time would fail to tell you all
that I learned incidentally of the slave system in the history of various slaves who came into
my family, and of the underground railroad which, I may say, ran through our house. But the
letter is already too long.

You ask with regard to the remuneration which I have received for my work here in America.
Having been poor all my life and expecting to be poor the rest of it, the idea of making money
by a book which I wrote just because I could not help it, never occurred to me. It was therefore
an agreeable surprise to receive ten thousand dollars as the first-fruits of three months'
sale. I presume as much more is now due. Mr. Bosworth in England, the firm of Clarke & Co.,
and Mr. Bentley, have all offered me an interest in the sales of their editions in London.
I am very glad of it, both on account of the value of what they offer, and the value of the
example they set in this matter, wherein I think that justice has been too little regarded.

I have been invited to visit Scotland, and shall probably spend the summer there and in England.

I have very much at heart a design to erect in some of the Northern States a normal school,
for the education of colored teachers in the United States and in Canada. I have very much
wished that some permanent memorial of good to the colored race might be created out of the
proceeds of a work which promises to have so unprecedented a sale. My own share of the profits
will be less than that of the publishers', either English or American; but I am willing to
give largely for this purpose, and I have no doubt that the publishers, both American and English,
will unite with me; for nothing tends more immediately to the emancipation of the slave than
the education and elevation of the free.

I am now writing a work which will contain, perhaps, an equal amount of matter with "Uncle
Tom's Cabin." It will contain all the facts and documents on which that story was founded,
and an immense body of facts, reports of trials, legal documents, and testimony of people now
living South, which will more than confirm every statement in "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

I must confess that till I began the examination of facts in order to write this book, much
as I thought I knew before, I had not begun to measure the depth of the abyss. The law records
of courts and judicial proceedings are so incredible as to fill me with amazement whenever
I think of them. It seems to me that the book cannot but be felt, and, coming upon the sensibility
awaked by the other, do something.

I suffer exquisitely in writing these things. It may be truly said that I write with my heart's
blood. Many times in writing "Uncle Tom's Cabin" I thought my health would fail utterly; but
I prayed earnestly that God would help me till I got through, and still I am pressed beyond
measure and above strength.

This horror, this nightmare abomination! can it be in my country! It lies like lead on my heart,
it shadows my life with sorrow; the more so that I feel, as for my own brothers, for the South,
and am pained by every horror I am obliged to write, as one who is forced by some awful oath
to disclose in court some family disgrace. Many times I have thought that I must die, and yet
I pray God that I may live to see something done. I shall in all probability be in London in
May: shall I see you?

It seems to me so odd and dream-like that so many persons desire to see me, and now I cannot
help thinking that they will think, when they do, that God hath chosen "the weak things of
this world."

If I live till spring I shall hope to see Shakespeare's grave, and Milton's mulberry-tree,
and the good land of my fathers,--old, old England! May that day come!

Yours affectionately, H. B. STOWE.

The journey undertaken by Mrs. Stowe with her husband and brother through England and Scotland,
and afterwards with her brother alone over much of the Continent, was one of unusual interest.
No one was more surprised than Mrs. Stowe herself by the demonstrations of respect and affection
that everywhere greeted her.

Fortunately an unbroken record of this memorable journey, in Mrs. Stowe's own words, has been
preserved, and we are thus able to receive her own impressions of what she saw, heard, and
did, under circumstances that were at once pleasant, novel, and embarrassing. Beginning with
her voyage, she writes as follows:--

LIVERPOOL, April 11,1853.

MY DEAR CHILDREN,--You wish, first of all, to hear of the voyage. Let me assure you, my dears,
in the very commencement of the matter, that going to sea is not at all the thing that we have
taken it to be. Let me warn you, if you ever go to sea, to omit all preparations for amusement
on shipboard. Don't leave so much as the unlocking of a trunk to be done after sailing. In
the few precious minutes when the ship stands still, before she weighs her anchor, set your
house, that is to say your stateroom, as much in order as if you were going to be hanged; place
everything in the most convenient position to be seized without trouble at a moment's notice;
for be sure that in half an hour after sailing, an infinite desperation will seize you, in
which the grasshopper will be a burden. If anything is in your trunk, it might almost as well
be in the sea, for any practical probability of your getting to it.

Our voyage out was called "a good run." It was voted unanimously to be "an extraordinary good
passage," "a pleasant voyage;" yet the ship rocked the whole time from side to side with a
steady, dizzy, continuous motion, like a great cradle. I had a new sympathy for babies, poor
little things, who are rocked hours at a time without so much as a "by your leave" in the case.
No wonder there are so many stupid people in the world!

We arrived on Sunday morning: the custom-house officers, very gentlemanly men, came on board;
our luggage was all set out, and passed through a rapid examination, which in many cases amounted
only to opening the trunk and shutting it, and all was over. The whole ceremony did not occupy
two hours.

We were inquiring of some friends for the most convenient hotel, when we found the son of Mr.
Cropper, of Dingle Bank, waiting in the cabin to take us with him to their hospitable abode.
In a few moments after the baggage had been examined, we all bade adieu to the old ship, and
went on board the little steam tender which carries passengers up to the city.

This Mersey River would be a very beautiful one, if it were not so dingy and muddy. As we are
sailing up in the tender towards Liverpool, I deplore the circumstance feelingly.

"What does make this river so muddy?"

"Oh," says a by-stander, "don't you know that

 "'The quality of mercy is not strained'?"

I had an early opportunity of making acquaintance with my English brethren; for, much to my
astonishment, I found quite a crowd on the wharf, and we walked up to our carriage through
a long lane of people, bowing, and looking very glad to see us.

When I came to get into the hack it was surrounded by more faces than I could count. They stood
very quietly, and looked very kindly, though evidently very much determined to look. Something
prevented the hack from moving on; so the interview was prolonged for some time.

Our carriage at last drove on, taking us through Liverpool and a mile or two out, and at length
wound its way along the gravel paths of a beautiful little retreat, on the banks of the Mersey,
called the "Dingle." It opened to my eyes like a paradise, all wearied as I was with the tossing
of the sea. I have since become familiar with these beautiful little spots, which are so common
in England; but now all was entirely new to me.

After a short season allotted to changing our ship garments and for rest, we found ourselves
seated at the dinner table. While dining, the sister-in-law of our friends came in from the
next door, to exchange a word or two of welcome, and invite us to breakfast with them the following
morning.

The next morning we slept late and hurried to dress, remembering our engagement to breakfast
with the brother of our host, whose cottage stands on the same ground, within a few steps of
our own. I had not the slightest idea of what the English mean by a breakfast, and therefore
went in all innocence, supposing I should see nobody but the family circle of my acquaintances.
Quite to my astonishment, I found a party of between thirty and forty people; ladies sitting
with their bonnets on, as in a morning call. It was impossible, however, to feel more than
a momentary embarrassment in the friendly warmth and cordiality of the circle by whom we were
surrounded.

In the evening I went into Liverpool to attend a party of friends of the anti-slavery cause.
When I was going away, the lady of the house said that the servants were anxious to see me;
so I came into the dressing-room to give them an opportunity.

The next day was appointed to leave Liverpool. A great number of friends accompanied us to
the cars, and a beautiful bouquet of flowers was sent with a very affecting message from a
sick gentleman, who, from the retirement of his chamber, felt a desire to testify his sympathy.
We left Liverpool with hearts a little tremulous and excited by the vibration of an atmosphere
of universal sympathy and kindness, and found ourselves, at length, shut from the warm adieu
of our friends, in a snug compartment of the railroad car.

"Dear me!" said Mr. S.; "six Yankees shut up in a car together! Not one Englishman to tell
us anything about the country! Just like the six old ladies that made their living by taking
tea at each other's houses!"

What a bright lookout we kept for ruins and old houses! Mr. S., whose eyes are always in every
place, allowed none of us to slumber, but looking out, first on his own side and then on ours,
called our attention to every visible thing. If he had been appointed on a mission of inquiry,
he could not have been more zealous and faithful, and I began to think that our desire for
an English cicerone was quite superfluous.

Well, we are in Scotland at last, and now our pulse rises as the sun declines in the west.
We catch glimpses of Solway Frith and talk about Redgauntlet. The sun went down and night drew
on; still we were in Scotland. Scotch ballads, Scotch tunes, and Scotch literature were in
the ascendant. We sang "Auld Lang Syne," "Scots wha hae," and "Bonnie Doon," and then, changing
the key, sang "Dundee," "Elgin," and "Martyr."

"Take care," said Mr. S.; "don't get too much excited."

"Ah," said I, "this is a thing that comes only once in a lifetime; do let us have the comfort
of it. We shall never come into Scotland for the first time again."

While we were thus at the fusion point of enthusiasm, the cars stopped at Lockerbie. All was
dim and dark outside, but we soon became conscious that there was quite a number of people
collected, peering into the window; and with a strange kind of thrill, I heard my name inquired
for in the Scottish accent. I went to the window; there were men, women, and children gathered,
and hand after hand was presented, with the words, "Ye're welcome to Scotland!"

Then they inquired for and shook hands with all the party, having in some mysterious manner
got the knowledge of who they were, even down to little G., whom they took to be my son. [footnote
29: the difficulty with France to shores to Tahiti having been satisfactorily discard of, England
Louis Philippe was enabled to visit King, a French King of come on the
visit of the Sovereign as England.

After that we found similar welcomes in many succeeding stopping- places; and though I did
wave a towel out of the window, instead of a pocket handkerchief, and commit other awkwardnesses,
from not knowing how to play my part, yet I fancied, after all, that Scotland and we were coming
on well together. Who the good souls were that were thus watching for us through the night,
I am sure I do not know; but that they were of the "one blood" which unites all the families
of the earth, I felt. 

The person are good. You will have larn for dear to our cruise, etc. i cannot accommodate myself
from be here again, and pine of my admirer Heap, the butte, a breath, the right, the retreat,
the liberty-- all-- more than is quiet.

I looked out of the carriage, as we drove on, and saw, by the light of a lantern, Argyll Street.
It was past twelve o'clock when I found myself in a warm, cosy parlor, with friends whom I
have ever since been glad to remember. In a little time we were all safely housed in our hospitable
apartments, and sleep fell on me for the first time in Scotland.

The next morning I awoke worn and weary, and scarce could the charms of the social Scotch breakfast
restore me.

Our friend and host was Mr. Bailie Paton. I believe that it is to his suggestion in a public
meeting that we owe the invitation which brought us to Scotland.

After breakfast the visiting began. First, a friend of the family, with three beautiful children,
the youngest of whom was the bearer of a handsomely bound album, containing a pressed collection
of the sea- mosses of the Scottish coast, very vivid and beautiful.

All this day is a confused dream to me of a dizzy and overwhelming kind. So many letters that
it took brother Charles from nine in the morning till two in the afternoon to read and answer
them in the shortest manner; letters from all classes of people, high and low, rich and poor,
in all shades and styles of composition, poetry and prose; some mere outbursts of feeling;
some invitations; some advice and suggestions; some requests and inquiries; some presenting
books, or flowers, or fruit.

Then came, in their turn, deputations from Paisley, Greenock, Dundee, Aberdeen, Edinburgh,
and Belfast in Ireland; calls of friendship, invitations of all descriptions to go everywhere,
and to see everything, and to stay in so many places. One kind, venerable minister, with his
lovely daughter, offered me a retreat in his quiet manse on the beautiful shores of the Clyde.

For all these kindnesses, what could I give in return? There was scarce time for even a grateful
thought on each. People have often said to me that it must have been an exceeding bore. For
my part, I could not think of regarding it so. It only oppressed me with an unutterable sadness.

In the afternoon I rode out with the lord provost to see the cathedral. The lord provost answers
to the lord mayor in England. His title and office in both countries continue only a year,
except in case of re-election.

