 There was a tremor of the bow, and I heard a flute play, and a harp, and a golden-mouthed
cornet; I heard the mirthful babble of happy voices, and peals of laughter ringing in the swelling
tide of pleasure. Then I saw a vision of snowy arms, voluptuous forms, and light fantastic
slippered feet, all whirling and floating in the mazes of the misty dance. The flying fingers
now tripped upon the trembling strings like fairy-feet dancing on the nodding violets, and
the music glided into a still sweeter strain. The violin told a story of human life. Two lovers
strayed beneath the elms and oaks, and down by the river side, where daffodils and pansies
bend and smile to rippling waves, and there, under the bloom of incense-breathing bowers, under
the soothing sound of humming bees and splashing waters, there, the old, old story, so old
and yet so new, conceived in heaven, first told in Eden and then handed down through all the
ages, was told over and over again. Ah, those downward drooping eyes, that mantling blush,
that trembling hand in meek submission pressed, that heaving breast, that fluttering heart,
that whispered "yes," wherein a heaven lies--how well they told of victory won and paradise
regained! And then he swung her in a grapevine swing. Young man, if you want to win her, wander
with her amid the elms and oaks, and swing her in a grapevine swing.

  "Swinging in the grapevine swing,
   Laughing where the wild birds sing;
   I dream and sigh for the days gone by,
   Swinging in the grapevine swing."

  But swiftly the tides of music run, and swiftly speed the hours;
  Life's pleasures end when scarce begun, e'en as the summer flowers.

The violin laughed like a child and my dream changed again. I saw a cottage amid the elms and
oaks and a little curly-head toddled at the door; I saw a happy husband and father return from
his labors in the evening and kiss his happy wife and frolic with his baby. The purple glow
now faded from the Western skies; the flowers closed their petals in the dewy slumbers of the
night; every wing was folded in the bower; every voice was hushed; the full-orbed moon poured
silver from the East, and God's eternal jewels flashed on the brow of night. The scene changed
again while the great master played, and at midnight's holy hour, in the light of a lamp dimly
burning, clad in his long, white mother-hubbard, I saw the disconsolate victim of love's young
dream nervously walking the floor, in his bosom an aching heart, in his arms the squalling
baby. On the drowsy air, like the sad wails of a lost spirit, fell his woeful voice singing:

    With my la-e, lo-e, hush-a-bye ba-by,
    Danc-ing the ba-by ev-er so high; with my
    La-e, lo-e, hush-a-bye ba-by
    Mam-ma will come to you bye and bye.

It was a battle with king colic. But this ancient invader of the empire of babyhood had sounded
a precipitate retreat; the curly head had fallen over on the paternal shoulder; the tear-stained
little face was almost calm in repose, when down went a naked heel square on an inverted tack.
Over went the work table; down came the work basket, scissors and all; up went the heel with
the tack sticking in it, and the hero of the daffodils and pansies, with a yell like the Indian
war-whoop, and with his mother-hubbard now floating at half mast, hopped in agony to a lounge
in the rear.

There was "weeping and gnashing of teeth;" there were hoarse mutterings; there was an angry
shake of the screaming baby, which he had awakened again. Then I heard an explosion of wrath
from the warm blankets of the conjugal couch, eloquent with the music of "how dare you shake
my little baby that way!!!! I'll tell pa to-morrow!" which instantly brought the trained husband
into line again, singing:

  "La-e, lo-e, hush-a-bye baby, dancing the baby ever so high,
  With my la-e, lo-e, hush-a-bye baby, mamma will come to you bye and bye."

The paregoric period of life is full of spoons and midnight squalls, but what is home without
a baby?

The bow now brooded like a gentle spirit over the violin, and the music eddied into a mournful
tone; another year intervened; a little coffin sat by an empty cradle; the prints of baby fingers
were on the window panes; the toys were scattered on the floor; the lullaby was hushed; the
sobs and cries, the mirth and mischief, and the tireless little feet were no longer in the
way to vex and worry. Sunny curls drooped above eyelids that were closed forever; two little
cheeks were bloodless and cold, and two little dimpled hands were folded upon a motionless
breast. The vibrant instrument sighed and wept; it rang the church bell's knell; and the second
story of life, which is the sequel to the first, was told.

Then I caught glimpses of a half-veiled paradise and a sweet breath from its flowers; I saw
the hazy stretches of its landscapes, beautiful and gorgeous as Mahomet's vision of heaven;
I heard the faint swells of its distant music and saw the flash of white wings that never weary,
wafting to the bosom of God an infant spirit; a string snapped; the music ended; my vision
vanished.

The old Master is dead, but his music will live forever.

CHERISH THE LITTLE ONES.

Do you sometimes forget and wound the hearts of your children with frowns and the dagger of
cruel words, and sometimes with a blow? Do you sometimes, in your own peevishness, and your
own meanness, wish yourself away from their fretful cries and noisy sports? Then think that
to-morrow may ripen the wicked wish; tomorrow death may lay his hand upon a little fluttering
heart and it will be stilled forever. 'Tis then you will miss the sunbeam and the sweet little
flower that reflected heaven on the soul. Then cherish the little ones! Be tender with the
babes! Make your homes beautiful! All that remains to us of paradise lost, clings about the
home. Its purity, its innocence, its virtue, are there, untainted by sin, unclouded by guile.
There woman shines, scarcely dimmed by the fall, reflecting the loveliness of Eden's first
wife and mother; the grace, the beauty, the sweetness of the wifely relation, the tenderness
of maternal affection, the graciousness of manner which once charmed angel guests, still glorify
the home.

If you would make your homes happy, you must make the children happy. Get down on the floor
with your prattling boys and girls and play horse with them; take them on your back and gallop
them to town; don't kick up and buck, but be a good and gentle old steed, and join in a hearty
horse laugh in their merriment. Take the baby on your knee and gallop him to town; let him
practice gymnastics on top of your head and take your scalp; let him puncture a hole in your
ear with his little teeth, and bite off the end of the paternal nose. Make your homes beautiful
with your duty and your love, make them bright with your mirth and your music.

Victor Hugo said of Napoleon the Great: "The frontiers of kingdoms oscillated on the map. The
sound of a super-human sword being drawn from its scabbard could be heard; and he was seen,
opening in the thunder his two wings, the Grand Army and the Old Guard; he was the archangel
of war." And when I read it I thought of the death and terror that followed wherever the shadow
of the open wings fell. I thought of the blood that flowed, and the tears that were shed wherever
the sword gleamed in his hand. I thought of the human skulls that paved Napoleon's way to St.
Helena's barren rock, and I said, 'I would rather dwell in a log cabin, in the beautiful land
of the mountains where I was born and reared, and sit at its humble hearthstone at night, and
in the firelight, play the humble rural tunes on the fiddle to my happy children, and bask
in the smiles of my sweet wife, than to be the 'archangel of war,' with my hands stained with
human blood, or to make the 'frontiers of kingdoms oscillate on the map of the world, and then,
away from home and kindred and country, die at last in exile and in solitude.'

FAT MEN AND BALD-HEADED MEN.

It ought to be the universal law that none but fat men and bald-headed men should be the heads
of families, because they are always good natured, contented and easily managed. There is more
music in a fat man's laugh than there is in a thousand orchestras or brass bands. Fat sides
and bald heads are the symbols of music, innocence, and meek submission. O! ladies listen to
the words of wisdom! Cultivate the society of fat men and bald-headed men, for "of such is
the Kingdom of Heaven." And the fat women, God bless their old sober sides--they are "things
of beauty, and a joy forever."

THE VIOLIN, THE POET LAUREATE OF MUSIC.

How sweet are the lips of morning that kiss the waking world! How sweet is the bosom of night
that pillows the world to rest. But sweeter than the lips of morning, and sweeter than the
bosom of night, is the voice of music that wakes a world of joys and soothes a world of sorrows.
It is like some unseen ethereal ocean whose silver surf forever breaks in song; forever breaks
on valley, hill, and craig, in ten thousand symphonies. There is a melody in every sunbeam,
a sunbeam in every melody; there is a flower in every song, a love song in every flower; there
is a sonnet in every gurgling fountain, a hymn in every brimming river, an anthem in every
rolling billow. Music and light are twin angels of God, the first-born of heaven, and mortal
ear and mortal eye have caught only the echo and the shadow of their celestial glories.

The violin is the poet laureate of music; violin of the virtuoso and master, fiddle of the
untutored in the ideal art. It is the aristocrat of the palace and the hall; it is the democrat
of the unpretentious home and humble cabin. As violin, it weaves its garlands of roses and
camelias; as fiddle it scatters its modest violets. It is admired by the cultured for its magnificent
powers and wonderful creations; it is loved by the millions for its simple melodies.

THE CONVICT AND HIS FIDDLE.

One bright morning, just before Christmas day, an official stood in the Executive chamber in
my presence as Governor of Tennessee, and said: "Governor, I have been implored by a poor miserable
wretch in the penitentiary to bring you this rude fiddle. It was made by his own hands with
a penknife during the hours allotted to him for rest. It is absolutely valueless, it is true,
but it is his petition to you for mercy. He begged me to say that he has neither attorneys
nor influential friends to plead for him; that he is poor, and all he asks is, that when the
Governor shall sit at his own happy fireside on Christmas eve, with his own happy children
around him, he will play one tune on this rough fiddle and think of a cabin far away in the
mountains whose hearthstone is cold and desolate and surrounded by a family of poor little
wretched, ragged children, crying for bread and waiting and listening for the footsteps of
their father."

Who would not have been touched by such an appeal? The record was examined; Christmas eve came;
the Governor sat that night at his own happy fireside, surrounded by his own happy children;
and he played one tune to them on that rough fiddle. The hearthstone of the cabin in the mountains
was bright and warm; a pardoned prisoner sat with his baby on his knee, surrounded by his rejoicing
children, and in the presence of his happy wife, and although there was naught but poverty
around him, his heart sang: "Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home;" and then he
reached up and snatched his fiddle down from the wall, and played "Jordan is a hard road to
travel."

A VISION OF THE OLD FIELD SCHOOL.

Did you never hear a fiddler fiddle? I have. I heard a fiddler fiddle, and the hey-dey-diddle
of his frolicking fiddle called back the happy days of my boyhood. The old field schoolhouse
with its batten doors creaking on wooden hinges, its windows innocent of glass, and its great,
yawning fireplace, cracking and roaring and flaming like the infernal regions, rose from the
dust of memory and stood once more among the trees. The limpid spring bubbled and laughed at
the foot of the hill. Flocks of nimble, noisy boys turned somersaults and skinned the cat and
ran and jumped half hammon on the old play ground. The grim old teacher stood in the door;
he had no brazen-mouthed bell to ring then as we have now, but he shouted at the top of his
voice: "Come to books!!!" And they came. Not to come meant "war and rumors of war." The backless
benches, high above the floor, groaned under the weight of irrepressible young America; the
multitude of mischievous, shining faces, the bare legs and feet, swinging to and fro, and the
mingled hum of happy voices, spelling aloud life's first lessons, prophesied the future glory
of the State. The curriculum of the old field school was the same everywhere--one Webster's
blue backed, elementary spelling book, one thumb-paper, one stone-bruise, one sore toe, and
Peter Parley's Travels.

The grim old teacher, enthroned on his split bottomed chair, looked terrible as an army with
banners; and he presided with a dignity and solemnity which would have excited the envy of
the United States Supreme Court: I saw the school commissioners visit him, and heard them question
him as to his system of teaching. They asked him whether, in geography, he taught that the
world was round, or that the world was flat. With great dignity he replied: "That depends upon
whar I'm teachin'. If my patrons desire me to teach the round system, I teach it; if they desire
me to teach the flat system, I teach that."

At the old field school I saw the freshman class, barefooted and with pantaloons rolled up
to the knees, stand in line under the ever uplifted rod, and I heard them sing the never-to-be-forgotten
b-a ba's. They sang them in the olden times, and this is the way they sang: "b-a ba, b-e be,
b-i bi-ba be bi, b-o bo, b-u bu-ba be bi bo bu."

I saw a sophomore dance a jig to the music of a dogwood sprout for throwing paper wads. I saw
a junior compelled to stand on the dunce block, on one foot--(a la gander) for winking at his
sweetheart in time of books, for failing to know his lessons, and for "various and sundry other
high crimes and misdemeanors."

A twist of the fiddler's bow brought a yell from the fiddle, and in my dream, I saw the school
come pouring out into the open air. Then followed the games of "prisoner's base," "town-ball,"
"Antney-over;" "bull-pen" and "knucks," the hand to hand engagements with yellow jackets, the
Bunker Hill and Brandywine battles with bumblebees, the charges on flocks of geese, the storming
of apple orchards and hornet's nests, and victories over hostile "setting" hens. Then I witnessed
the old field school "Exhibition"--the wonderful "exhibition"--they call it Commencement now.
Did you never witness an old field school "exhibition," far out in the country, and listen
to its music? If you have not your life is a failure--you are a broken string in the harp of
the universe. The old field school "exhibition" was the parade ground of the advance guard
of civilization; it was the climax of great events in the olden times; and vast assemblies
were swayed by the eloquence of the budding sockless statesmen. It was at the old field school
"exhibition" that the goddess of liberty always received a broken nose, and the poetic muse
a black eye; it was at the old field school "exhibition" that Greece and Rome rose and fell,
in seas of gore, about every fifteen minutes in the day, and,

