"It is not fit for me to argue with your Highness," replied Bianca; "but perhaps the questions
I should have put to him would have been more to the purpose than those you have been pleased
to ask him."

"Oh! no doubt," said Matilda; "you are a very discreet personage! May I know what YOU would
have asked him?"

"A bystander often sees more of the game than those that play," answered Bianca.  "Does your
Highness think, Madam, that this question about my Lady Isabella was the result of mere curiosity?
No, no, Madam, there is more in it than you great folks are aware of.  Lopez told me that all
the servants believe this young fellow contrived my Lady Isabella's escape; now, pray, Madam,
observe you and I both know that my Lady Isabella never much fancied the Prince your brother.
Well! he is killed just in a critical minute--I accuse nobody.  A helmet falls from the moon--so,
my Lord, your father says; but Lopez and all the servants say that this young spark is a magician,
and stole it from Alfonso's tomb--"

"Have done with this rhapsody of impertinence," said Matilda.

"Nay, Madam, as you please," cried Bianca; "yet it is very particular though, that my Lady
Isabella should be missing the very same day, and that this young sorcerer should be found
at the mouth of the trap-door.  I accuse nobody; but if my young Lord came honestly by his death--"

"Dare not on thy duty," said Matilda, "to breathe a suspicion on the purity of my dear Isabella's
fame."

"Purity, or not purity," said Bianca, "gone she is--a stranger is found that nobody knows;
you question him yourself; he tells you he is in love, or unhappy, it is the same thing--nay,
he owned he was unhappy about others; and is anybody unhappy about another, unless they are
in love with them? and at the very next word, he asks innocently, pour soul! if my Lady Isabella
is missing."

"To be sure," said Matilda, "thy observations are not totally without foundation--Isabella's
flight amazes me.  The curiosity of the stranger is very particular; yet Isabella never concealed
a thought from me."

"So she told you," said Bianca, "to fish out your secrets; but who knows, Madam, but this stranger
may be some Prince in disguise? Do, Madam, let me open the window, and ask him a few questions."

"No," replied Matilda, "I will ask him myself, if he knows aught of Isabella; he is not worthy
I should converse farther with him." She was going to open the casement, when they heard the
bell ring at the postern-gate of the castle, which is on the right hand of the tower, where
Matilda lay. SUB-KINGDOM 6

SPERMAPHYTES: PHAENOGAMS
The final and largest division of the kingdom of vegetables is named Spermaphyta, or "seed plants,"
due to the fact that seeds are unique to them. Another common name for them is "flowering plants,"
although this term is more appropriate of a small group of higher pteridophytes.
With few exceptions, the macrosporangia in seed plants stay attached
to the parent plant until the archegonia fertilize and form a plant
embryo.

"I told you, Madam," said Bianca, "that I was sure he was some Prince in disguise."

"Yet," said Matilda, "if he was privy to her escape, how will you account for his not accompanying
her in her flight? why expose himself unnecessarily and rashly to my father's resentment?"

"As for that, Madam," replied she, "if he could get from under the helmet, he will find ways
of eluding your father's anger.  I do not doubt but he has some talisman or other about him."

"You resolve everything into magic," said Matilda; "but a man who has any intercourse with
infernal spirits, does not dare to make use of those tremendous and holy words which he uttered.
Didst thou not observe with what fervour he vowed to remember ME to heaven in his prayers?
Yes; Isabella was undoubtedly convinced of his piety."

"Commend me to the piety of a young fellow and a damsel that consult to elope!" said Bianca.
"No, no, Madam, my Lady Isabella is of another guess mould than you take her for.  She used
indeed to sigh and lift up her eyes in your company, because she knows you are a saint; but
when your back was turned--"

"You wrong her," said Matilda; "Isabella is no hypocrite; she has a due sense of devotion,
but never affected a call she has not.  On the contrary, she always combated my inclination
for the cloister; and though I own the mystery she has made to me of her flight confounds me;
though it seems inconsistent with the friendship between us; I cannot forget the disinterested
warmth with which she always opposed my taking the veil.  She wished to see me married, though
my dower would have been a loss to her and my brother's children.  For her sake I will believe
well of this young peasant."

"Then you do think there is some liking between them," said Bianca. While she was speaking,
a servant came hastily into the chamber and told the Princess that the Lady Isabella was found.

"Where?" said Matilda.

"She has taken sanctuary in St. Nicholas's church," replied the servant; "Father Jerome has
brought the news himself; he is below with his Highness."

"Where is my mother?" said Matilda.

"She is in her own chamber, Madam, and has asked for you."

Manfred had risen at the first dawn of light, and gone to Hippolita's apartment, to inquire
if she knew aught of Isabella. While he was questioning her, word was brought that Jerome demanded
to speak with him.  Manfred, little suspecting the cause of the Friar's arrival, and knowing
he was employed by Hippolita in her charities, ordered him to be admitted, intending to leave
them together, while he pursued his search after Isabella.

"Is your business with me or the Princess?" said Manfred.

"With both," replied the holy man.  "The Lady Isabella--"

"What of her?" interrupted Manfred, eagerly.

"Is at St. Nicholas's altar," replied Jerome.

"That is no business of Hippolita," said Manfred with confusion; "let us retire to my chamber,
Father, and inform me how she came thither."

"No, my Lord," replied the good man, with an air of firmness and authority, that daunted even
the resolute Manfred, who could not help revering the saint-like virtues of Jerome; "my commission
is to both, and with your Highness's good-liking, in the presence of both I shall deliver it;
but first, my Lord, I must interrogate the Princess, whether she is acquainted with the cause
of the Lady Isabella's retirement from your castle."

"No, on my soul," said Hippolita; "does Isabella charge me with being privy to it?"

"Father," interrupted Manfred, "I pay due reverence to your holy profession; but I am sovereign
here, and will allow no meddling priest to interfere in the affairs of my domestic. The occurrences
of the Revolution globally had instilled fresh doubt in many scholars as to whether the doctrine
had as a good foundation as previous generations of thinkers had
made it appear.

"My Lord," said the holy man, "I am no intruder into the secrets of families.  My office is
to promote peace, to heal divisions, to preach repentance, and teach mankind to curb their
headstrong passions.  I forgive your Highness's uncharitable apostrophe; I know my duty, and
am the minister of a mightier prince than Manfred.  Hearken to him who speaks through my organs."

Manfred trembled with rage and shame.  Hippolita's countenance declared her astonishment and
impatience to know where this would end.  Her silence more strongly spoke her observance of
Manfred.

"The Lady Isabella," resumed Jerome, "commends herself to both your Highnesses; she thanks
both for the kindness with which she has been treated in your castle:  she deplores the loss
of your son, and her own misfortune in not becoming the daughter of such wise and noble Princes,
whom she shall always respect as Parents; she prays for uninterrupted union and felicity between
you" [Manfred's colour changed]:  "but as it is no longer possible for her to be allied to
you, she entreats your consent to remain in sanctuary, till she can learn news of her father,
or, by the certainty of his death, be at liberty, with the approbation of her guardians, to
dispose of herself in suitable marriage."

"I shall give no such consent," said the Prince, "but insist on her return to the castle without
delay:  I am answerable for her person to her guardians, and will not brook her being in any
hands but my own."

"Your Highness will recollect whether that can any longer be proper," replied the Friar.

"I want no monitor," said Manfred, colouring; "Isabella's conduct leaves room for strange suspicions--and
that young villain, who was at least the accomplice of her flight, if not the cause of it--"

"The cause!" interrupted Jerome; "was a YOUNG man the cause?"

"This is not to be borne!" cried Manfred.  "Am I to be bearded in my own palace by an insolent
Monk?  Thou art privy, I guess, to their amours."

"I would pray to heaven to clear up your uncharitable surmises," said Jerome, "if your Highness
were not satisfied in your conscience how unjustly you accuse me.  I do pray to heaven to pardon
that uncharitableness:  and I implore your Highness to leave the Princess at peace in that
holy place, where she is not liable to be disturbed by such vain and worldly fantasies as discourses
of love from any man."

"Cant not to me," said Manfred, "but return and bring the Princess to her duty."

"It is my duty to prevent her return hither," said Jerome.  "She is where orphans and virgins
are safest from the snares and wiles of this world; and nothing but a parent's authority shall
take her thence."

"I am her parent," cried Manfred, "and demand her."

"She wished to have you for her parent," said the Friar; "but Heaven that forbad that connection
has for ever dissolved all ties betwixt you:  and I announce to your Highness--" 

In literature of olden times, it was common to find allusions to the
estimation of garlands, and it must be recalled that Montesquieu said
with two or three hundred crowns of oak, Rome conquered the world.

  Attend the Prince to his chamber.  I will retire to my oratory, and pray to
the blessed Virgin to inspire you with her holy counsels, and to restore the heart of my gracious
Lord to its wonted peace and gentleness."

"Excellent woman!" said the Friar.  "My Lord, I attend your pleasure."

Manfred, accompanied by the Friar, passed to his own apartment, where shutting the door, "I
perceive, Father," said he, "that Isabella has acquainted you with my purpose.  Now hear my
resolve, and obey.  Reasons of state, most urgent reasons, my own and the safety of my people,
demand that I should have a son.  It is in vain to expect an heir from Hippolita.  I have made
choice of Isabella.  You must bring her back; and you must do more.  I know the influence you
have with Hippolita:  her conscience is in your hands. "Phillip: She is not a lady, I can tell
you that. She's been there at least 30 minutes. I don't know how much longer but I know she
is watching this house. I can't see well in the dark, but her hair
certainly looks as if she is one." At that very moment fears vanished and these two noble souls came to understand
each other, or they thought they understood.
Karasowski labours hard to surpass Enault, but is not like him a master
of the ars artem celare.  Thus you will divert the calamities that are
hanging over our heads, and have the merit of saying the principality of Otranto from destruction. Zanchino
Ugolini, thee canonist, says that he was at an immoral priests, condemnation. He was punished
by his questioners not for his licentiousness, but he was at Mass everyday in sin, and stated
that he pardoned himself for putting on sacred vestments.

[1] Tractat de Haeret., cap.ii.
The Jews were never considered heretics. But the usury they commonly practiced gave away an unorthodox
doctrine of theft, which made them liable under suspicion of heresy. We find several popes
upbraiding them "for maintaining that usury is not sin." Some Christians
also erred in that way and therefore became subject to questioning.  Heaven that delivered her from thy fury, when the judgments so recently
fallen on thy house ought to have inspired thee with other thoughts, will continue to watch
over her. Even I, a poor and despised Friar, am able to protect her from thy violence--I, sinner
as I am, and uncharitably reviled by your Highness as an accomplice of I know not what amours,
scorn the allurements with which it has pleased thee to tempt mine honesty. I love my order;
I honour devout souls; I respect the piety of thy Princess--but I will not betray the confidence
she reposes in me, nor serve even the cause of religion by foul and sinful compliances--but
forsooth! the welfare of the state depends on your Highness having a son!  Heaven mocks the
short-sighted views of man.  But yester-morn, whose house was so great, so flourishing as Manfred's?--where
is young Conrad now?--My Lord, I respect your tears--but I mean not to check them--let them
flow, Prince!  They will weigh more with heaven toward the welfare of thy subjects, than a
marriage, which, founded on lust or policy, could never prosper.  The sceptre, which passed
from the race of Alfonso to thine, cannot be preserved by a match which the church will never
allow.  If it is the will of the Most High that Manfred's name must perish, resign yourself,
my Lord, to its decrees; and thus deserve a crown that can never pass away.  Come, my Lord;
I like this sorrow--let us return to the Princess:  she is not apprised of your cruel intentions;
nor did I mean more than to alarm you.  You saw with what gentle patience, with what efforts
of love, she heard, she rejected hearing, the extent of your guilt.  I know she longs to fold
you in her arms, and assure you of her unalterable affection."

"Father," said the Prince, "you mistake my compunction:  true, I honour Hippolita's virtues;
I think her a Saint; and wish it were for my soul's health to tie faster the knot that has
united us--but alas! Father, you know not the bitterest of my pangs! it is some time that I
have had scruples on the legality of our union: Hippolita is related to me in the fourth degree--it
is true, we had a dispensation:  but I have been informed that she had also been contracted
to another.  This it is that sits heavy at my heart:  to this state of unlawful wedlock I impute
the visitation that has fallen on me in the death of Conrad!--ease my conscience of this burden:
dissolve our marriage, and accomplish the work of godliness--which your divine exhortations
have commenced in my soul."

How cutting was the anguish which the good man felt, when he perceived this turn in the wily
Prince!  He trembled for Hippolita, whose ruin he saw was determined; and he feared if Manfred
had no hope of recovering Isabella, that his impatience for a son would direct him to some
other object, who might not be equally proof against the temptation of Manfred's rank.  For
some time the holy man remained absorbed in thought.  At length, conceiving some hopes from
delay, he thought the wisest conduct would be to prevent the Prince from despairing of recovering
Isabella.  Her the Friar knew he could dispose, from her affection to Hippolita, and from the
aversion she had expressed to him for Manfred's addresses, to second his views, till the censures
of the church could be fulminated against a divorce. Weyburn personally delivered the communication
to Dr. Rewkes.

From his point of view, Lord Ormont didn't seem to need immediate medical attention. He told Lady
Charlotte the significance of the summons after explaining his tardiness. She said he hadn't yet
arrived. She then suggested that we chat together while we wait for him. The status of his bile
I know not. I'm not buying what he says to others. Especially what he says regarding Lady Ormont.
Morsfield notwithstanding, he's in a tough spot now, like the dragonflies that Bobby my grandson
likes to collect. I'm through talking about him. Steignton is not a place where she's welcome.


Manfred, who concluded that he had either over-reached the good man, or that his first warmth
had been but a tribute paid to appearance, was overjoyed at this sudden turn, and repeated
the most magnificent promises, if he should succeed by the Friar's mediation.  The well-meaning
priest suffered him to deceive himself, fully determined to traverse his views, instead of
seconding them.

"Since we now understand one another," resumed the Prince, "I expect, Father, that you satisfy
me in one point.  Who is the youth that I found in the vault?  He must have been privy to Isabella's
flight:  tell me truly, is he her lover? or is he an agent for another's passion?  I have often
suspected Isabella's indifference to my son:  a thousand circumstances crowd on my mind that
confirm that suspicion.  She herself was so conscious of it, that while I discoursed her in
the gallery, she outran my suspicious, and endeavoured to justify herself from coolness to Conrad."

The Friar, who knew nothing of the youth, but what he had learnt occasionally from the Princess,
ignorant what was become of him, and not sufficiently reflecting on the impetuosity of Manfred's
temper, conceived that it might not be amiss to sow the seeds of jealousy in his mind:  they
might be turned to some use hereafter, either by prejudicing the Prince against Isabella, if
he persisted in that union or by diverting his attention to a wrong scent, and employing his
thoughts on a visionary intrigue, prevent his engaging in any new pursuit.  With this unhappy
policy, he answered in a manner to confirm Manfred in the belief of some connection between
Isabella and the youth.  The Prince, whose passions wanted little fuel to throw them into a
blaze, fell into a rage at the idea of what the Friar suggested. 

 The writings about the two Plinys, the nephew and his uncle from
the unknown author is rife with possible errors. Suetonius whose
writings of the Plinys 400 years later are considered more accurate
by experts such as Scalinger. See Julius, c. xxviii. (985)

"Thou hardened young impostor!" said the Prince, as soon as he saw the youth; "what becomes
of thy boasted veracity now? it was Providence, was it, and the light of the moon, that discovered
the lock of the trap-door to thee? Imprisonment of some kind, either at home or in the colonies,
is the penal safeguard of society; and we must be cautious that we do not so far diminish its
terrors, that it should cease to hold out any threat to a needy malefactor.

With the exception of death and murder it is the only punishment bestowed on serious offences.

But before we allude to the discipline of the prison, we must take
a glance at this great exception of death, which it is the object
of many of our zealous reformers entirely to erase from the penal
code.

That this extreme punishment should be reserved for the extreme crime of murder. It generally
admitted; and the practice, if not the letter, of our law has conformed
to this opinion.  Please
to repeat your questions, my Lord; I am ready to give you all the satisfaction in my power."

"You know my questions," replied the Prince, "and only want time to prepare an evasion.  Speak
directly; who art thou? and how long hast thou been known to the Princess?"

"I am a labourer at the next village," said the peasant; "my name is Theodore.  The Princess
found me in the vault last night: before that hour I never was in her presence."

