The day after the arrival of the courier from Poitiers, Cellamare, informed of what had occurred,
but who flattered himself that the presence of the banker had caused the arrest of the young
men, and the seizure of their papers, hid his fears under a very tranquil bearing, and went,
at one o'clock in the day, to M. le Blanc, to ask for a packet of letters he had entrusted
to Portocarrero and Monteleon on their return to Spain.  Le Blanc (who had had his lesson prepared
beforehand by the Abbe Dubois) replied that the packet had been seen; that it contained important
things, and that, far from being restored to him, he himself must go back to his hotel under
escort, to meet there M. l'Abbe Dubois. The ambassador, who felt that such a compliment would
not be attempted with out means having been prepared to put it in execution, made no difficulty,
and did not lose for a moment his address or his tranquillity.

During the three hours, at least, passed in his house, in the examination of all his bureaux
and his boxes, and his papers, Cellamare, like a man who fears nothing, and who is sure of
his game, treated M. le Blanc very civilly; as for the Abbe Dubois, with whom he felt he had
no measure to keep (all the plot being discovered), he affected to treat him with the utmost
disdain.  Thus Le Blanc, taking hold of a little casket, Cellamare cried, "M. le Blanc, M.
le Blanc, leave that alone; that is not for you; that is for the Abbe Dubois" (who was then
present).  Then looking at him, he added, "He has been a pander all his life, and there are
nothing but women's letters there."

The Abbe Dubois burst out laughing, not daring to grow angry.

When all was examined, the King's seal, and that of the ambassador, were put upon all the bureaux
and the caskets which contained papers.  The Abbe Dubois and Le Blanc went off together to
give an account of their proceedings to the Regent, leaving a company of musketeers to guard
the ambassador and his household.

I heard of the capture effected at Poitiers, at home, the morning after it occurred, without
knowing anything of those arrested.  As I was at table, a servant came to me from M. le Duc
d'Orleans, summoning me to a council of the regency, at four o'clock that day.  As it was not
the usual day for the council, I asked what was the matter.  The messenger was surprised at
my ignorance and informed me that the Spanish ambassador was arrested.  As soon as I had eaten
a morsel, I quitted my company, and hastened to the Palais Royal, where I learnt from M. le
Duc d'Orleans all that I have just related.  Our conversation took up time, and, when it was
over, I went away to the Tuileries.  I found there astonishment painted upon several faces;
little groups of two, three, and four people together; and the majority struck by the importance
of the arrest, and little disposed to approve it.

M. le Duc d'Orleans arrived shortly after.  He had, better than any man I have ever known,
the gift of speech, and without needing any preparation he said exactly what he wanted to say,
neither more nor less; his expressions were just and precise, a natural grace accompanied them
with an air of proper dignity, always mixed with an air of politeness.  He opened the council
with a discourse upon the people and the papers seized at Poitiers, the latter proving that
a very dangerous conspiracy against the state was on the eve of bursting, and of which the
Ambassador of Spain was the principal promoter.  His Royal Highness alleged the pressing reasons
which had induced him to secure the person of this ambassador, to examine his papers, and to
place them under guard.  He showed that the protection afforded by the law of nations did not
extend to conspiracies, that ambassadors rendered themselves unworthy of that protection when
they took part in them, still more when they excited people against the state where they dwelt.
He cited several examples of ambassadors arrested for less.  He explained the orders he had
given so as to inform all the foreign ministers in Paris of what had occurred, and had ordered
Dubois to render an account to the council of what he had done at the ambassador's, and offered
to read the letters from Cellamare to Cardinal Alberoni, found among the papers brought from
Poitiers.

The Abbe Dubois stammered out a short and ill-arranged recital of what he had done at the ambassador's
house, and dwelt upon the importance of the discovery and upon that of the conspiracy as far
as already known.  The two letters he read left me no doubt that Cellamare was at the head
of this affair, and that Alberoni had entered into it as far as he.  We were much scandalised
with the expressions in these letters against M. le Duc d'Orleans, who was in no way spared.

This prince spoke again, to say he did not suspect the King or Queen of Spain to be mixed up
in this affair, but that he attributed it all to the passion of Alberoni, and that of his ambassador
to please him, and that he would ask for justice from their Catholic Majesties.  He showed
the importance of neglecting no means in order to clear up an affair so capital to the repose
and tranquillity of the kingdom, and finished by saying, that until he knew more he would name
nobody who was mixed up in the matter.  All this speech was much applauded, and I believe there
were some among the company who felt greatly relieved when they heard the Regent say he would
name nobody nor would he allow suspicions to be circulated until all was unravelled.

Nevertheless the next day, Saturday, the 10th of December, more than one arrest was made. 
Others took place a few days afterwards.

On Tuesday, the 13th of December, all the foreign ministers went to the Palais Royal, according
to custom; not one made any complaint of what had happened.  A copy of the two letters read
at the council was given to them.  In the afternoon, Cellamare was placed in a coach with a
captain of cavalry and a captain of dragoons, chosen to conduct him: to Blois, until Saint-Aignan,
our ambassador in Spain, should arrive in France.

The position of our ambassador, Saint-Aignan, at Madrid, was, as may be imagined, by no means
agreeable.  The two courts were just upon the point of an open rupture, thanks to the hatred
Alberoni had made it a principle to keep up in Spain against M. le Duc d'Orleans, by crying
down his actions, his government, his personal conduct, his most innocent acts, and by rendering
suspicious even his favourable proceedings with regard to Spain.  Alberoni for a long time
had ceased to keep on even decent terms with Saint-Aignan, scandalising thus even the most
unfavourably disposed towards France.  Saint-Aignan only maintained his position by the sagacity
of his conduct, and he was delighted when he received orders to return to France.  He asked
for his parting audience, and meanwhile bade adieu to all his friends and to all the Court.
Alberoni, who every moment expected decisive news from Cellamare respecting the conspiracy,
wished to remain master of our ambassador, so as, in case of accident, to have a useful hostage
in his hands as security for his own ambassador. He put off therefore this parting audience
under various pretexts.  At last, Saint-Aignan, pressed by his reiterated orders (orders all
the more positive because suspicion had already begun to foresee a disturbance ever alarming),
spoke firmly to the Cardinal, and declared that if this audience were not at once accorded
to him, he would do without it! Therefore the Cardinal, in anger, replied with a menace, that
he knew well enough how to hinder, him, from acting thus.

Saint-Aignan wisely contained himself; but seeing to what sort of a man he was exposed, and
judging rightly why he was detained at Madrid, took his measures so secretly and so well, that
he set out the same night, with his most necessary equipage, gained ground and arrived at the
foot of the Pyrenees without being overtaken and arrested; two occurrences which he expected
at every moment, knowing that Alberoni was a man who would stick at nothing.

Saint-Aignan, already so far advanced, did not deem it advisable to expose himself any longer,
bothered as he would be among the mountains by his carriages.  He and the Duchess, his wife,
followed by a waiting-woman and three valets, with a very trusty guide, mounted upon mules
and rode straight for Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port without stopping a moment more on the road than
was necessary.  He sent on his equipages to Pampeluna at a gentle pace, and placed in his carriage
an intelligent valet de chambre and a waiting-woman, with orders to pass themselves off as
the ambassador and ambassadress of France, and in case they were arrested to cry out a good
deal.  The arrest did not fail to happen.  The people despatched by Alberoni soon came up with
the carriage.  The pretended ambassador and ambassadress played their parts very well, and
they who had arrested them did not doubt for a moment they had made a fine capture, sending
news of it to Madrid, and keeping the prisoners in Pampeluna, to which the party returned.

This device saved M. and Madame de Saint-Aignan, and gave them means to reach Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port;
as soon as they arrived there they sent for assistance and carriages to Bayonne, which they
gained in safety, and reposed after their fatigue.  The Duc de Saint-Aignan sent word of all
this to M. le Duc d'Orleans by a courier, and, at this arrival in Bayonne, despatched a message
to the Governor of Pampeluna, begging him to send on his equipages.  Alberoni's people were
very much ashamed of having been duped, but Alberoni when he heard of it flew into a furious
rage, and cruelly punished the mistake.  The equipages were sent on to Bayonne.

CHAPTER XCVI

To return now to what took place at Paris.

On Sunday, the 25th of December, Christmas Day, M. le Duc d'Orleans sent for me to come and
see him at the Palais Royal, about four o'clock in the afternoon.  I went accordingly, and
after despatching some business with him, other people being present, I followed him into his
little winter cabinet at the end of the little gallery, M. le Duc being present.

After a moment of silence, the Regent told me to see if no one was outside in the gallery,
and if the door at the end was closed.  I went out, found the door shut, and no one near.

This being ascertained, M. le Duc d'Orleans said that we should not be surprised to learn that
M. and Madame du Maine had been mixed up all along with this affair of the Spanish Ambassador
Cellamare; that he had written proofs of this, and that the project was exactly that which
I have already described.  He added, that he had strictly forbidden the Keeper of the Seals,
the Abbe Dubois, and Le Blanc, who alone knew of this project, to give the slightest sign of
their knowledge, recommended to me the same secrecy, and the same precaution; and finished
by saying that he wished, above all things, to consult M. le Duc and me upon the course he
ought to adopt.

M. le Duc at once went to the point and said M. and Madame du Maine must at once be arrested
and put where they could cause no apprehension.  I supported this opinion, and showed the perilous
annoyances that might arise if this step were not instantly taken; as much for the purpose
of striking terror into the conspirators, as for disconcerting their schemes.  I added that
there was not a moment to lose, and that it was better to incur uncertain danger than to wait
for that which was certain.

Our advice was accepted by M. le Duc d'Orleans, after some little debate. But now the question
arose, where are the prisoners to be put?  The Bastille and Vincennes both seemed to me too
near to Paris.  Several places were named without one appearing to suit.  At lasts M. le Duc
d'Orleans mentioned Dourlens.  I stopped him short at the name, and recommended it warmly.
I knew the governor, Charost, and his son to be men of probity, faithful, virtuous, and much
attached to the state.  Upon this it was agreed to send M. du Maine to Dourlens.

Then we had to fix upon a place for his wife, and this was more difficult; there were her sex,
her fiery temper, her courage; her daring,--all to be considered; whereas, her husband, we
knew, so dangerous as a hidden enemy, was contemptible without his mask, and would fall into
the lowest state of dejection in prison, trembling all over with fear of the scaffold, and
attempting nothing; his wife, on the contrary, being capable of attempting anything:

Various places discussed, M. le Duc d'Orleans smiled, and proposed the chateau of Dijon!  Now,
the joke of this suggestion was, that Dijon belonged to M. le Duc, and that he was nephew of
Madame du Maine, whom the Regent proposed to lock up there!  M. le Duc smiled also, and said
it was a little too bad to make him the gaoler of his aunt!  But all things considered, it
was found that a better choice than Dijon could not be made, so M. le Duc gave way.  I fancy
he had held out more for form's sake than for any other reason.  These points settled, we separated,
to meet another time, in order to make the final arrangements for the arrest.

We met accordingly, the Monday and Tuesday following, and deliberated with the same secrecy
as before.  On Wednesday we assembled again to put the final touch to our work.  Our conference
was long, and the result of it was, that M. and Madame du Maine were to be arrested on the
morrow; all the necessary arrangements were made, and, as we thought, with the utmost secrecy.
Nevertheless, the orders given to the regiment of the guards, and to the musketeers somehow
or other transpired during the evening, and gave people reason to believe that something considerable
was in contemplation.  On leaving the conference, I arranged with Le Blanc that, when the blow
was struck, he should inform me by simply sending a servant to inquire after my health.

The morrow, about ten o'clock in the morning, having noiselessly and without show placed the
body-guard around Sceaux, La Billardiere, lieutenant of the regiment, entered there, and arrested
the Duc du Maine as he was leaving his chapel after hearing mass, and very respectfully begged
him not to re-enter the house, but to mount immediately into a coach which he had brought.
M. du Maine, who had expected this arrest, and who had had time to put his papers in order,
mad not the slightest resistance.  He replied that he had anticipated this compliment for some
days, and at once moved into the coach.  La Billardiere placed himself by his side, and in
front was an exempt of the bodyguards, and Favancourt, brigadier in the first company of musketeers,
destined to guard him in his prison.

As these two latter persons did not appear before the Duc du Maine until the moment he entered
the coach, be appeared surprised and moved to see Favancourt.

He would not have been at the exempt, but the sight of the other depressed him.  He asked La
Billardiere what this meant.  Billardiere could not dissimulate that Favancourt had orders
to accompany him, and to remain with him in the place to which they were going.  Favancourt
himself took this moment to pay his compliments as best he might to the Duc du Maine, to which
the Duke replied but little, and that in a civil and apprehensive manner.  These proceedings
conducted them to the end of the avenue of Sceaux, where the bodyguards appeared.  The sight
of them made the Duc du Maine change colour.

