There are thirty-five banks of issue doing business under cantonal law. Of these, eighteen,
known as cantonal banks, either are managed or have their notes guaranteed by the respective
cantons. Thus, while banking and money-issuing are free, the cantonal banks insure a requisite
note circulation, minimizing the rate of interest and reducing its fluctuations. The setting
up of cantonal banks, in order to withdraw privileges from licensed banks, was one of the public
questions agitated by social reformers and decided in several of the cantons by direct legislation.

Taxes.

The framework of this little volume does not admit so much as an outline of the various methods
of taxation practiced in Switzerland. As in all countries, they are complex. But certain significant
results of direct legislation are to be pointed out. In all the cantons there is a strong tendency
to raise revenue from direct, as opposed to indirect, taxes, and from progressive taxation
according to fortune. The following, from an editorial in the "Christian Union," February 12,
1891, so justly and briefly puts the facts that I prefer printing it rather than words of my
own, which might lie under suspicion of being tinged with the views of a radical: "With the
democratic revolution of 1830 the people demanded that direct taxation should be introduced,
and since the greater revolution of 1848 they have been steadily replacing the indirect taxes
upon necessities by direct taxes upon wealth. In Zurich, for example--where in the first part
of this century there were no direct taxes--in 1832 indirect taxation supplied four-fifths
of the local revenue; to-day it supplies but one-seventeenth. The canton raises thirty-two
francs per capita by direct taxation where it raises but two by indirect taxation. This change
has accompanied the transformation of Switzerland from a nominal to a real democracy. By the
use of direct taxation, where every man knows just how much he pays, and by the use of the
Referendum, where the sense of justice of the entire public is expressed as to how tax burdens
should be distributed, Switzerland has developed a system by which the division of society
into the harmfully rich and wretchedly poor has been checked, if not prevented. In the most
advanced cantons, as has been brought out by Professor Cohn in the 'Political Science Quarterly,'
the taxes, both on incomes and on property, are progressive. In each case a certain minimum
is exempted. In the case of incomes, the progression is such that the largest incomes pay a
rate five times as heavy as the very moderate ones; while in the case of property, the largest
fortunes pay twice as much as the smallest. The tax upon inheritances has been most strongly
developed. In the last thirty years it has been increased sixfold. The larger the amount of
property, and the more distant the relative to whom it has been bequeathed, the heavier the
rate is made. It is sometimes as high as 20 per cent. Speaking upon this point, the New York
'Evening Post' correspondent says: 'Evidently there are few countries that do so much to discourage
the accumulation of vast fortunes; and, in fact, Switzerland has few paupers and few millionaires.'"

Until 1848, each canton imposed cantonal tariff duties on imported goods, and, as is yet the
case in most continental countries, until a few years ago the larger cities imposed local import
duties (octrois). But the octroi is now a thing of the past, and save in one respect the cantons
have abolished cantonal tariffs. The mining of salt being under federal control, and the retail
price regulated by each canton for itself, supervision of imports of salt into each canton
becomes necessary.

The "Statesmen's Year Book" (1891) gives the debts of all the cantons of Switzerland as inconsiderable,
while the federal debt, in 1890 but eleven million dollars, is less than half the federal assets
in stocks and lands. In summing up at the close of his chapter on "State and Local Finance,"
Prof. Vincent says: "On the whole, the expenditures of Switzerland are much less than those
of neighboring states. This may be ascribed in part to the lighter military burden, in part
to the fact that no monarchs and courts must be supported, and further, to the inclinations
of the Swiss people for practical rather than ornamental matters." And he might pertinently
have added, "and to the fact that the citizens themselves hold the public purse-strings."

Limitations to Swiss Freedom.

Certain stumbling blocks stand in the way of sweeping claims as to the freedom enjoyed in Switzerland.
One is asked: What as to the suppression of the Jesuits and the Salvation Army? As to the salt
and alcohol monopolies of the State? As to the federal protective tariff? What as to the political
war two years ago in Ticino?

Two mutually supporting forms of reply are to be made to these queries. One relates to the
immediate circumstances under which each of the departures from freedom cited have taken place;
the other to historical conditions affecting the development of the Swiss democracy of to-day.

As to the first of these forms of reply:

In the decade previous to 1848 occurred the religious disturbances that ended in the war of
the Sonderbund (secession), when several Catholic cantons endeavored to dissolve the loose
federal pact under which Switzerland then existed. On the defeat of the secessionists, the
movement for a closer federation--for a Confederation--received an impetus, which resulted
in the present union. By an article of the constitution then substituted for the pact, convents
were abolished and the order of the Jesuits forbidden on Swiss soil. Both had endangered the
State. Mild, indeed, is this proscription when compared with the effects of the religious hatreds
fostered for centuries between territories now Swiss cantons. In the judgment of the majority
this restriction of the freedom of a part is essential to that enjoyed by the nation as a whole.

The exercises of the Salvation Army fell under the laws of the municipalities against nuisances.
The final judicial decision in this case was in effect that while persons of every religious
belief are free to worship in Switzerland, none in doing so are free seriously to annoy their
neighbors.

The present federal protective tariff was imposed just after the federal Referendum (optional)
had been called into operation on several other propositions, and, the public mind weary of
political agitation, demand for the popular vote on the question was not made. The Geneva correspondent
of the Paris "Temps" wrote of the tariff when it was adopted in 1884: "This tariff has sacrificed
the interest of the whole of the consumers to temporary coalitions of private interests. It
would have been shattered like a card house had it been submitted to the vote of the people."
In imposing the tariff, the Federal Assembly in self-defense followed the action of other Continental
governments. Many raw materials necessary to manufactures were, however, exempted and the burden
of the duties placed on luxuries. As it is, Switzerland, without being able to obtain a pound
of cotton except by transit through regions of hostile tariffs, maintains a cotton manufacturing
industry holding a place among the foremost of the Continent, while her total trade per head
is greater than that of any other country in Europe.

The days of the federal salt monopoly are numbered. The criticisms it has of late evoked portend
its end. A popular vote may finish it at any time.

The State monopoly of alcohol, begun in 1887, is as yet an experiment. Financially, it has
thus far been moderately successful, though smuggling and other evasions of the law go on on
a large scale. The nation, yet in doubt, is awaiting developments. With a reaction, confidently
predicted by many, against high tariffs and State interference with trade, the monopoly may
be abolished.

The little war in Ticino was the expiring spasm of the ultramontanes, desperately struggling
against the advance of the Liberals armed with the Referendum. The reactionaries were suppressed,
and the people's law made to prevail. The story, now to be read in the annual reference books,
is a chronicle that cannot fail to win approval for democracy as an agency of peace and justice.

       *       *       *       *       *

The explanations conveyed in these facts imply yet a deeper cause for the lapses from freedom
in question. This cause is that Switzerland, in many cantons for centuries undemocratic, is
not yet entirely democratic. Law cannot rise higher than its source. The last step in democracy
places all lawmaking power directly and fully in the hands of the majority, but if by the majority
justice is dimly seen, justice will be imperfectly done. No more may be asserted for democracy
than this: (1) That under the domination of force, at present the common state of mankind,
escape from majority rule in some form is impossible. (2) That hence justice as seen by the
majority, exercising its will in conditions of equality for all, marks the highest justice
obtainable. In their social organization and practice, the Swiss have advanced the line of
justice to where it registers their political,--their mental and moral,--development. Above
that, manifestly, it cannot be carried.

Despite a widespread impression to the contrary, the traditions for ages of nearly all that
now constitutes Swiss territory have been of tyranny and not of liberty. In most of that territory,
in turn, bishop, king, noble, oligarch, and politician governed, but until the past half century,
or less, never the masses. Half the area of Switzerland, at present containing 40 per cent
of the inhabitants, was brought into the federation only in the present century. Of this recent
accession, Geneva, for a brief term part of France, had previously long been a pure oligarchy,
and more remotely a dictatorship; Neuchâtel had been a dependency of the crown of Prussia,
never, in fact, fully released until 1857; Valais and the Grisons, so-called independent confederacies,
had been under ecclesiastical rule; Ticino had for three centuries been governed as conquered
territory, the privilege of ruling over it purchased by bailiffs from its conquerors, the ancient
Swiss League--"a harsh government," declares the Encyclopædia Britannica, "one of the darkest
passages of Swiss history." Of the older Switzerland, Bâle, Berne, and Zurich were oligarchical
cities, each holding in feudality extensive neighboring regions. Not until 1833 were the peasants
of Bâle placed on an equal footing with the townspeople, and then only after serious disturbances.
And the inequalities between lord and serf, victor and vanquished, voter and disfranchised,
existed in all the older states save those now known as the Landsgemeinde cantons. Says Vincent:
"Almost the only thread that held the Swiss federation together was the possession of subject
lands. In these they were interested as partners in a business corporation. Here were revenues
and offices to watch and profits to divide, and matters came to such a pass that almost the
only questions upon which the Diet could act in concert were the inspection of accounts and
other affairs connected with the subject territories. The common properties were all that prevented
complete rupture on several critical occasions. Another marked feature in the condition of
government was the supremacy gained by the patrician class. Municipalities gained the upper
hand over rural districts, and within the municipalities the old families assumed more and
more privileges in government, in society, and in trade. The civil service in some instances
became the monopoly of a limited number of families, who were careful to perpetuate all their
privileges. Even in the rural democracies there was more or less of this family supremacy visible.
Sporadic attempts at reform were rigorously suppressed in the cities, and government became
more and more petrified into aristocracy. A study of this period of Swiss history explains
many of the provisions found in the constitutions of today, which seem like over-precaution
against family influence. The effect of privilege was especially grievous, and the fear of
it survived when the modern constitutions were made."

Here, plainly, are the final explanations of any shortcomings in Swiss liberty. In those parts
of Switzerland where these shortcomings are serious, modern ideas of equality in freedom have
not yet gained ascendency over the ages-honored institution of inequality. Progress is evident,
but the goal of possible freedom is yet distant. How, indeed, could it be otherwise when in
several cantons it was only in 1848, with the Confederation, that manhood suffrage was established?

But how, it may be inquired, did the name of Swiss ever become the synonym of liberty? This
land whose soldiery hired out as mercenaries to foreign princes, this League of oppressors,
this hotbed of religious conflicts and persecutions,--how came it to be regarded as the home
of a free people!

The truth is that the traditional reputation of the whole country is based on the ancient character
of a part. The Landsgemeinde cantons alone bear the test of democratic principles. Within them,
indeed, for a thousand years the two primary essentials of democracy have prevailed. They are:

(1) That the entire citizenship vote the law.

(2) That land is not property, and its sole just tenure is occupancy and use.

The first-named essential is yet in these cantons fully realized; largely, also, is the second.

The Communal Lands of Switzerland.

As to the tenure of the land held in Switzerland as private property, Hon. Boyd Winchester,
for four years American minister at Berne, in his recent work, "The Swiss Republic," says:
"There is no country in Europe where land possesses the great independence, and where there
is so wide a distribution of land ownership as in Switzerland. The 5,378,122 acres devoted
to agriculture are divided among 258,637 proprietors, the average size of the farms throughout
the whole country being not more than twenty-one acres. The facilities for the acquisition
of land have produced small holders, with security of tenure, representing two-thirds the entire
population. There are no primogeniture, copyhold, customary tenure, and manorial rights, or
other artificial obstacles to discourage land transfer and dispersion." "There is no belief
in Switzerland that land was made to administer to the perpetual elevation of a privileged
class; but a widespread and positive sentiment, as Turgot puts it, that 'the earth belongs
to the living and not to the dead,' nor, it may be added, to the unborn."

Turgot's dictum, however, obtains no more than to this extent: (1) The cantonal testamentary
laws almost invariably prescribe division of property among all the children--as in the code
Napoleon, which prevails in French Switzerland, and which permits the testator to dispose of
only a third of his property, the rest being divided among all the heirs. (2) Highways, including
the railways, are under immediate government control. (3) The greater part of the forests are
managed, much of them owned, by the Confederation. (4) In nearly all the communes, some lands,
often considerable in area, are under communal administration. (5) In the Landsgemeinde cantons
largely, and in other cantons in a measure, inheritance and participation, jointly and severally,
in the communal lands are had by the members of the communal corporation--that is, by those
citizens who have acquired rights in the public property of the commune.

Nearly every commune in Switzerland has public lands. In many communes, where they are mostly
wooded, they are entirely in charge of the local government; in others, they are in part leased
to individuals; in others, much of them is worked in common by the citizens having the right;
but in the Landsgemeinde cantons it is customary to divide them periodically among the members
of the corporation.

Of the Landsgemeinde cantons, one or two yet have nearly as great an area of public land as
of private. The canton of Uri has nearly 1,000 acres of cultivated lands, the distribution
of which gives about a quarter of an acre to each family entitled to a share. Uri has also
forest lands worth between 4,000,000 and 5,000,000 francs, representing a capital of nearly
1,500 francs to each family. The commune of Obwald, in Unterwald, with 13,000 inhabitants,
has lands and forests valued at 11,350,000 francs. Inner Rhodes, in Appenzell, with 12,000
inhabitants, has land valued at 3,000,000 francs. Glarus, because of its manufactures, is one
of the richest cantons in public domain. In the non-Landsgemeinde German cantons, there is
much common land. One-third of all the lands of the canton of Schaffhausen is held by the communes.
The town of Soleure has forests, pastures, and cultivated lands worth about 6,000,000 francs.
To the same value amounts the common property of the town of St. Gall. In the canton of St.
Gall the communal Alpine pasturages comprise one-half such lands. Schwyz has a stretch of common
land (an allmend) thirty miles in length and ten to fifteen in breadth. The city of Zurich
has a well-kept forest of twelve to fifteen square miles, worth millions of francs. Winterthur,
the second town in Zurich, has so many forests and vineyards that for a long period its citizens
not only had no taxes to pay, but every autumn each received gratis several cords of wood and
many gallons of wine. Numerous small towns and villages in German Switzerland collect no local
taxes, and give each citizen an abundance of fuel. In addition to free fuel, cultivable lands
are not infrequently allotted. At Stanz, in Unterwald, every member of the corporation is given
more than an acre. At Buchs, in St. Gall, each member receives more than an acre, with firewood
and grazing ground for several head of cattle. Upward of two hundred French communes possess
common lands. In the canton of Vaud, a number of the communes have large revenues in wood and
butter from the forests and pastures of the Jura mountains. Geneva has great forests; Valais
many vineyards.

In the canton of Valais, communal vineyards and grain fields are cultivated in common. Every
member of the corporation who would share in the produce of the land contributes a certain
share of work in field or vineyard. Part of the revenue thus obtained is expended in the purchase
of cheese. The rest of the yield provides banquets in which all the members take part.

Excepting in the case of forests, the trend is away from working the lands in common. Examples
of the later methods are to be seen in the cantons of Ticino and Glarus, as follows:--

