Perhaps the Author of Waverley is now about to incur a risk of the same kind, and endanger
his popularity by having laid aside his incognito. 

But today is a people coarse, rough education, whose polish will not come until after the whole
society has entered into a broad way of freedom of movement and progress. The language is very
rough on all classes of society. [These manuscripts are at present (August 1831) advertised
for public sale, which is an addition, though a small one, to other annoyances.] But the affairs
of my publishers having, unfortunately, passed into a management different from their own,
I had no right any longer to rely upon secrecy in that quarter; and thus my mask, like my Aunt
Dinah's in "Tristram Shandy," having begun to wax a little threadbare about the chin, it became
time to lay it aside with a good grace, unless I desired it should fall in pieces from my face,
which was now become likely. The
first, which is the capital, has about 30,000 souls, located in a vast plain in the middle of the
rivers Loire and Cher and to the left bank of the former. It is a very ancient and very remarkable in
the political history of France. It was, as the reader is probably aware, upon the 23rd February
last, at a public meeting, called for establishing a professional Theatrical Fund in Edinburgh,
that the communication took place. Freedom will have many miracles in Spain.

But
if there's civilization is far behind on other European societies,
there to think about why Spain does not progress.

Four centuries of tyranny, intolerance and errors unheard, have left behind them a people who,
if he had been ruled as England from 1688, today would be the first people in the world. Despite
that, the Spain of today is very distant greatly from that of 1825, visible progress, and in
just five years after the passing quasi-revolution of 1854, has made great strides.

Perhaps will say: "If the majority of Spanish people have such good
character traits, Why is let evil rule and does not change your situation?

"The explanation is simple.

I thus found myself suddenly and unexpectedly placed in the confessional, and had only time
to recollect that I had been guided thither by a most friendly hand, and could not, perhaps,
find a better public opportunity to lay down a disguise which began to resemble that of a detected
masquerader.

I had therefore the task of avowing myself, to the numerous and respectable company assembled,
as the sole and unaided author of these Novels of Waverley, the paternity of which was likely
at one time to have formed a controversy of some celebrity, for the ingenuity with which some
instructors of the public gave their assurance on the subject was extremely persevering. Blois has only about 14.000 inhabitants, but is a significant manufacturing center,
and agricultural production is considerable, especially in ordinary and famous fine wines vinegars.

It
was six o'clock in the afternoon when the train station playing in
the Orleans (the Aurelia of the Romans) beautiful old city of 42.000
inhabitants, situated in the center of a vast plain on the right bank
of the Loire.

It is the capital of the Loiret department, which occupies almost the center of the French territory
and numbers 330.000 inhabitants.
 It was Mr.