The Marriages

by Henry James

CHAPTER I

"Won't you stay a little longer?" the hostess asked while she held the girl's hand and smiled.
"It's too early for every one to go-- it's too absurd." Equanimity and
always to the point, faithful and persevering, a righteousness that any suspicion disarmed, ready
to accommodate the converted opponent with a sincere good-will - He has gradually freed from
the wreckage of Germany and the bonds of its own folly foreign intrigue, to pave the way for
larger times. The presence but not ungrateful to be, as Frederick the Great, who said of the lackluster
job his father's life: "The power of the glans, we thank the shadow of the oak tree that covers
us."

                            Source: H. von Treitschke, German History, etc. II, 607ff.

   
      
      ------------------
      
      11 Aug. / Sept. 1819 was held at Carlsbad in to Metternich's Presidency
Congress of the German Minister for consideration of joint measures
against the demagogic machinations.

   The result was the Carlsbad Decisions of the Bundestag on 20 September
      unanimously approved.
      
      12 On 29 July 1819 was the Austrian Chancellor Metternich in Teplice
      with Friedrich Wilhelm III. a secret interview, in which he appointed
      the King of Prussia, on the introduction of a to give people representation
      in the modern sense. On 1 August Hardenberg and Metternich
      signed a paper on the "Principles by which the courts of Austria
and Prussia in the to process internal affairs of the German Federal
are determined.

   "
      
      13 John Friedrich Benz Berg, born 5 May 1777, died on 8 June 1846;
      1805 appointed professor of physics at the Lyceum to Dusseldorf,
was he 1810 after Switzerland, but returned after Napoleon's fall
after Germany and devoted himself to writing back step.

   
      
      14 Friedrich List, born 6 August 1789, died by suicide 30th November
      1846, political economist, who in his writings the idea represented
      that every nation, especially their own resources the highest
      degree of independence and harmonious development To bring the indigenous
      industry, if necessary by protective and support the national
      purpose of a permanent development productive forces all the pecuniary
advantage of individual would prefer.

   

   
      15 Ernst Wilh.

   Arnoldi, born on 21 Mai 1778th d. 27th Mai 1841st
      
      16 John George Bush, born 3rd January 1728, died 5th Aug. 1800, founded
      1767 in Hamburg, a commercial college.

   
      17 Joseph von Görres, born 25th January 1776, died 29th January 1848,
      a Journalist, the first for the Revolution, and afterwards
      for the 'Germans' enthusiasm, and finally a stop in ultramontanism
      sought and fought with fanaticism against Protestantism.
      
      18 Robert Blum, born 10th November 1807, shot on 9 November 1848 in
Vienna, where he is confident of his integrity as a member of the
Frankfurt Parliament had gone to the Vienna, a rebellious applause
address of the Frankfurt Party members to deliver.

   As the leader of a Elitekompagnie Struggle involved, he was arrested
      and by a court-martial Death sentence.
      

   19 Ferd. Lassalle, born 11 April 1825, died 31st August, 1864, Socialist
      agitator, founder of the Other.

   German Workers' Association.
      
      20 Georg Friedrich von Martens, birth 22 February 1756, died 21st
February 1821, 1816 Hannöver.

   Federal Minister.
      
      Aug. 21 Count Fried. Ferd.

   Goltz, born 20 July 1765, died 17th January 1832, Prussian ambassador from
      1816 to 1824 the Bundestag, after Marshal of the Court.
      
      22 Wilh. Ludw.

   Leop. Reinhard Freiherr von Berstett, born 1769, died 6th February
      1837, 1816 Baden envoy Bundestag, from 1817 to 1831 Baden Minister of
      Foreign Affairs.

   
      Klemens von Metternich Prince 23, born 15th May 1773, died 11th
      June 1859, Austrian Minister since 1809, since May 1821 to 13th March
      1848 Chancellor, is key for the reaction in Austria and Germany.
      
      24 Karl Friedrich Nebenius, born 29 September 1785, died on 8 June
1857, authors of the Bill of Baden of 22 August 1818 and twice Minister
of the Interior.

   
      
      25 David Ricardo, born 19 April 1778, died 11th September 1823, Engl.

   Economist who as a student of the doctrine of Adam Smith Free trade was
      of publishing. His thoughts on the relationship between production
      costs of goods and the selling price and the Relationship between
      job performance and wages are of Marx and Lassalle been developed.

   
      

   26 Wilh. Anton v. Klewiz, born 1 August 1760, died 26th July 1838, from
      1817-1824 Prussian Minister of Finance from 1824-1837 First President
      the province of Saxony.
      

   27 Karl Freiherr von Stein to the Old Stone, born 7th October 1770, died
      14. May 1840, since 1817 Minister of spiritual teaching and Medicine
      Alan opportunities reorganizer of the Prussian population and higher
education.

   
      
      28 Friedrich Leopold von Kircheisen, born 24 June 1746, died
      18th March 1825 of 1810 from the Prussian Minister of Justice.

29
      Ludwig Freiherr von Spittler, born 10th November 1752, died 14th
      March 1810, was in 1779 as professor of philosophy at Göttingen appointed
in 1806 appointed minister in Württemberg and curator the University
of Tübingen.

30 Friedrich Ernst Daniel Schleiermacher, born on 21 November 1768, died 12. February 1834, preacher
at the Trinity Church and Berlin Professor at the University.

31 Fried. Christian. Adolf von Motz, born 18 November 1775, died 30th June 1830, originally
in the service of the King of Westphalia act occurred over after the fall of Napoleon the Prussian
service. 1817 in President of the Government appointed Erfurt, he was in 1821 Temporarily, 1824
definitely upper-President of Saxony, 1825 Go. Heads of State and Minister of Finance.

3. The struggle for the Prussian Customs Law of the Vienna conferences.

When Hardenberg his instructions (for the appointed Minister to Vienna Conference) to Bernstorff
(32) granted, he sharpened it again one, that a federal customs in the present state of the German
states was impossible.

Then he repeated it word for word what he simultaneously the envoys of the List's trade association
said, and publish by the State Journal was: "One, therefore, the only thing attributed to the fact
that individual states, which by the current state believe complains with those federal members,
where after their Opinion, the Board will seek to unite, and that such matching arrangements be passed from
border to border on, which have the purpose of the internal partitions to have more and more covered.
"Thus the trade policy program of the government preußißschen again very clear and unambiguous.
By clinging to their customs laws, said they are prepared to other states through the customs
union or free contract trade facilitation to grant, but she saw one - and therein lay her superiority - that
all complaints against the internal tolls remained idle talk, as long as the German states
on a common Customs Act some could not.

Bernstorff was taken to a lively opposition from the outset, he knew well how incomprehensible these
sober trade ideas that are now all familiar with the great majority German courts have been
released. The passionate outburst "hateful prejudices," the experience he had in Vienna exceeded,
but his worst expectations.

The naive economic Ignorance of the Epoch celebrated their Saturnalia at the conferences,
almost the entire German Diplomacy were up in arms against the Prussian customs law. Once the
questions of trade, the Conversation turned to the position of the parties shifted completely.
The Prussian Agents, of almost all other issues, the majority of the Assembly moved to be standing
in the trade Deliberations as isolated as in the military, he seemed like the troublemaker of
the German unity. The same courts that everywhere else the province of the Federal anxious sought
to restrict hoped, by an illegal decision that federal blessing Reform, which had given Germany the
Prussian freedom of movement to overthrow again. From mouth to mouth was the sophistic claim that
the Prussian law against the contrary Article 19 of the Federal Act, which contained nothing
more than the promise that the federal due of trade and commerce should "enter into consultation.

Prussia's
evil genius, so let yourself be heard well-intentioned, has the unfortunate Act created the
trust and forfeited all his affection, it will one day Prussia still regret it! Strangely enough, the
attacks of the indignant German champion of free trade directed exclusively against Prussia,
although other states of the same Were guilty of sacrilege. Bayern had just (22 July 1819),
as Prussia, a new Customs Law proclaimed, but no one strove against it. Fully loaded, the Austrian
prohibitive not only all goods much harder than the Prussian law prohibiting even some German
Products entirely, including the Franks and Rhine wines. None of the German ministers took
offense at it. Metternich to Berstett said abruptly: "I consider it even Austria not entangled
in the issue of trade, "and the state of Baden man took this statement without Opposition for
granted back. Thus was precisely because of the passionate zeal the little ones shown were chained
as determine their interests with Prussia, as loose with Austria. Some of the small Ministers
expressed the idea of ​​federal duties: so Fritsch (33), where his Grand Duke had given orders
to demand the transfer of customs lines to the federal limit, Berstett, who remained still believe,
by the proclamation of general movement the federal government will assuage the discontent of
the most secure nation. Others wanted only the marketing of German products can be free, and
as little as they knew that the provide means to execute its plan: to foreign countries, said Berstett
comfortable, Let each state arrange its tariffs at will, enough, if in the interior of Germany
the tolls fell away. These honest enthusiasts were joined by some
allies, their hidden agendas concealed hardly unfair.

The Duke of Coburg (34) appeared even in Vienna, through its veto to thwart the completion of the federal
military organization, if it not unlimited traffic would be granted freedom, but because the
conference, the Federal Military Law not the pure, brought shame to so fine was the plan. Even
bolder was Marschall (35) on. The scented with the instinct of hatred that the new customs legislation,
the work of "Demagogic subalterns" in the Berlin bureau, the Prussian state, perhaps one day hegemony
in the north could provide, through their destruction, he also thought that State of calamity
to humiliate and crush the serpent of the Revolution's head.

Similar sentiments harbored the Kassel court, which already, without an understanding with the neighboring
state even trying, had opened the tariff war against Prussia. A law of 17 September 1819, the
import and transit of many Prussian goods banned or with severe Duties assigned. The added amount
of the increased taxes should be used for the good of the Hessian Traders, who had brought the
Prussian customs law to beggary - a promise Elector of the greedy (36) of course, never redeemed.
In Berlin, it was thought at first to retaliatory measures. The king held strictly to the promise
that the Prussian duties primarily should take the goods out of Germany, and was hostile steps
against German States if possible be avoided.

Also a report from the Finance Ministry came to the conclusion retaliatory measures were for the
Hessian Hesse extremely harmful, dangerous to Prussia, so "Only for form's sake" to fight.
The Minister said in Kassel in confidence in this sense against the Elector of. Meanwhile, Prussia
was the Cologne-Berlin Art Street on Höxter and Paderborn, extend to circumvention of the Hesse
region. The traffic of the North East with the South pulled away from Hanau to Würzburg, the Hessian
roads began to become desolate. The elector had to reduce its combat duties again and waited now
so impatient to a federal decision that would destroy the customs lines of unassailable neighbors.

Among
the opponents of Prussia but saw no one so ancient coarse language lead to as the Duke Ferdinand
of Köthen, a vain, trifling man, who in 1806 due to proven inability of the Prussian military service
had to leave and now personally hurried to the Danube to prevent "the media coverage of the ancient
House of Anhalt." The real Mistress of his little territory was his wife Julia, nee Countess of
Brandenburg, half-sister King of Prussia, a lady of intellect and culture, immensely proud of their
royal Would catholicizing the teachings of the romantic school devoted zeal. As Metternich appreciate
value of such ally well knew, he had Adam Müller (37) to conduct next to the Leipzig Consulate and
the office of the Austrian Charge d'Affaires at the Anhalt to hold courts, and the celebrated
writer of the ultra-montane party was the romantic Duchess soon is an essential reference. Müller
hated his Prussian homeland with the whole Wrath of the convert. His inventive mind sprang the
plan on a big crook pieces small princely state of art, pierce the Prussian customs legislation
from the inside out and should at least make it impossible for the province of Saxony. The country
has some Köthensche Hours by flowing far from the Elbe, and Elbe rivers was one of the conventional,
those of the Congress of Vienna, the "perfect freedom of navigation had promised." What a
brilliant prospect opened, therefore, the position of power Köthe, if the conference is could
move, the freedom of the same immediately and unconditionally implement because of the Covenant! Then
was the Duke, although his country was surrounded by Prussian territory, separate European trade
policy begin, he could abuse the freedom of Elbschiffahrt, to open up in the heart of the Prussian
state to the black market a large sanctuary, to flood the hated neighbor in smuggled goods, and
maybe for him to force change in its tariff system. Eagerly the little man went to this friendly
and neighborly Thoughts on; scruples touched him, and the difference between power and powerlessness
He could not understand.

The repeated invitations to volunteers benevolent Following the Prussian customs system had cleared
all gruff, vulgar in that screaming tone that all documents of this court was mean. "Anhalt - he explained
proud - his life searching only in the general European international club States and the resources
which it presents its geographical location at high currents. "

More or less zealously, the majority of other agents complained against the selfishness the
state, standing alone the ideal of German unity in the trade routes. Only the Hanseatic cities,
satisfied with its cosmopolitan trading statement showed any attempt common German Trade policy
back cool. Also Zentner (38) distinguished himself again through judicious prudence off, the
formless dream image of a general movement, the conditions still No one knew, he would not
sacrifice the new Bavarian customs law. Metternich, however, was noise with ill-concealed
glee, the little ones against Prussia. Masterfully understood the Viennese court, the fear of Prussian
ambition, all the small states in the limbs was, depending on the circumstances for the purpose of
exploiting it. In October, Graf Bombelles (39) express order of Emperor Franz the Grand Duke
of Weimar (40) threatened: when the Carlsbad Decrees not always strictly execute, then should
the two great powers of the League withdrawn and then the emperor would feel the need to his
Prussian allies to provide "an enhanced position in Germany." Metternich used as safe now the
jealousy of the little ones to fight Prussia's trade policy. Of course, could he dare not to support the
opponents of his indispensable ally open, especially since he himself in the Austrian customs
did not want to change the least.

Under the Hand, however, he encouraged the angry and whispered to them, was the Prussian Customs
Law the work of a party whose purpose "with" faithful Federal sense, having nothing in common.
As trade Counselor, he had the author of Anhalt smuggling plans, Adam Muller, after Vienna can come.

The
nation was on the problem of the customs union came into the clear yet, nor how their Statesmen.
From the political outcome of the conferences they expected, according to the Karlsbad Experience,
no rants, just the lifting of internal tolls and especially of the Prussian Customs lines appeared
to all parties as a humble wish that at some good will governments could be easily fulfilled.
A pamphlet "Candid words of a German from facts, "said with sharp words, which almost all non-Prussia,
the Berlin Trade policy thinking. The apparently well-meaning authors, it was defamatory in
that the areas enclosed by the Prussian State as enclaves call, and
absolutely illegal, Prussia rise of "foreign" taxes, the criminal
court of public opinion had the Cause "of truth and justice" inevitably
help to victory.

As a spokesman of the merchants and tradesmen, F. List and his followers took J. J. Quick and E.
Weber at the conferences, and submitted a memorandum to their high-spirited patriotic pathos
amidst the particularist narrow-minded political interests of the Vienna Assembly appeared
totally unknown. With the unity of the nation - he led in eloquent words from - the complete
independence of the states is not compatible, and the federal government must the 30 million Germans,
the blessings of freedom to create, and therefore in reality a Federation are the Germans. And what
was the practical proposal that these enthusiastic words followed? List requested that lease
the German states their duties to a joint stock company should, and was confident of placing the shares,
that company would German Federal Customs justify and remove all the governments concerned about annoying
details! Strangely however, in which sweet illusions of the fiery patriot einwiegte. He claimed
Prussia was inclined to give up its customs law, though he had just one official from Berlin
the opposite was insured. He looked from the Vienna police with suspicion and wrote in the home: "We
are surrounded on all sides to spies, quartered with a spy, operated by a spy, "and he knew
that Metternich had said in the conference, with the Individuals who each spent for the representatives
of the German trade status, one could engage in any negotiations because of the German Bundestag
already trade association was sentenced as an unlawful and illegal businesses. All misled
him not moving in its optimism. So when did Adam Müller a memorandum on German Lists Industrial exhibitions
reviewed favorably and Kaiser Franz in audience the sturdy Agitator assured that his government would
like to promote the welfare of the German fatherland, because he thought he almost reached the
goal: "All eyes are now on the Austrian Imperial Government directed. What would not the Emperor of
Austria noble man friendly the German-speaking peoples join again if they so much benefit from
his hands would be, "When even the illusion vanished, he threw his hopes on the South German
courts and said that his case had obtained only by the delay. Thus, clung to the noble Patriot
at straws, and only the Prussian customs law that one day the cornerstone of our economic entity
should be, it seemed like the entire nation, as the source of destruction.

At the conference, opened the fight by Marshal a memorandum of 8 January,
which the Prussian state with such gross denigration heaped that Bernstorff
they returned to the author.

The new customs facilities, it said since the property rights of hundreds of thousands would
attack, reduces the property and possessions. Then called the Nassau confidently: Repeal all since 1814,
recently introduced tolls and immediate compliance with the decisions Congress of Vienna, river
transport, the other full liberty for every German State tariffs against foreign countries arbitrarily
be fixed if he does not only internal tolls constructed. That the latter proposal contained
a crude contradiction that no single State could protect themselves against foreign countries,
when his German borders were unguarded - This was the palpable truth Nassau statesman quite
escaped, he said, of the Colors, as the blind because his little country had no border tariffs.

Then
repeated Berstett his old complaints against the internal tolls and distributed among the Enjoyed
those thoughtful memorandum of Nebenius over the federal customs duty, in a quiet examination
however, had to concede the impossibility of all Federal Customs
Administration, and the Baden Minister himself dropped the plan of
his brilliant subordinate.

Then new angry failures Marshal, so rude and boorish, Bernstorff at the conclusion of the conferences
that the Federal Minister wrote, "it would be beneath the dignity of our highest court, this respectable
in any way man may express any sensitivity directed against his person, "Goltz is So the Nassau
colleagues keep away indifferently. Now also protested Fritsch on behalf of the Thuringian Enklavensystem
against Prussia and asked each producer must be allowed to sell its products anywhere freely in Germany,
each consumer, to obtain all their needs in the next few ways. Between them went in the Köthen Herzog, could
describe his arrogant behavior Bernstorff not bright enough, with repeated strongly worded
protests. He complained that he was leaving all the burdens of the Prussian customs do not
carry the benefits, whereas it is only in it, lay on offers of Prussia enter into and to also
partake of the benefits are. He threatened the foreign guarantors of Federal Act to call "for
the protection of the" attack on all, raised for the old house Anhalt.


"Is that how it strikes you?"--and she stared at the lamp.

"He asked me to speak to her," Godfrey went on.

"In what hideous sense?"

"To tell her I was glad."

"And did you?" Adela panted.

"I don't know.  I said something.  She kissed me."

"Oh how COULD you?" shuddered the girl, who covered her face with her hands.

"He says she's very rich," her brother returned.

"Is that why you kissed her?"

"I didn't kiss her.  Good-night."  And the young man, turning his back, went out.

When he had gone Adela locked herself in as with the fear she should be overtaken or invaded,
and during a sleepless feverish memorable night she took counsel of her uncompromising spirit.
She saw things as they were, in all the indignity of life.  The levity, the mockery, the infidelity,
the ugliness, lay as plain as a map before her; it was a world of gross practical jokes, a
world pour rire; but she cried about it all the same.  The morning dawned early, or rather
it seemed to her there had been no night, nothing but a sickly creeping day.  But by the time
she heard the house stirring again she had determined what to do.  When she came down to the
breakfast-room her father was already in his place with newspapers and letters; and she expected
the first words he would utter to be a rebuke to her for having disappeared the night before
without taking leave of Mrs. Churchley.  Then she saw he wished to be intensely kind, to make
every allowance, to conciliate and console her.  He knew she had heard from Godfrey, and he
got up and kissed her.  He told her as quickly as possible, to have it over, stammering a little,
with an "I've a piece of news for you that will probably shock you," yet looking even exaggeratedly
grave and rather pompous, to inspire the respect he didn't deserve.  When he kissed her she
melted, she burst into tears.  He held her against him, kissing her again and again, saying
tenderly "Yes, yes, I know, I know."  But he didn't know else he couldn't have done it.  Beatrice
and Muriel came in, frightened when they saw her crying, and still more scared when she turned
to them with words and an air that were terrible in their comfortable little lives:  "Papa's
going to be married; he's going to marry Mrs. Churchley!"  After staring a moment and seeing
their father look as strange, on his side, as Adela, though in a different way, the children
also began to cry, so that when the servants arrived with tea and boiled eggs these functionaries
were greatly embarrassed with their burden, not knowing whether to come in or hang back.  They
all scraped together a decorum, and as soon as the things had been put on table the Colonel
banished the men with a glance.  Then he made a little affectionate speech to Beatrice and
Muriel, in which he described Mrs. Churchley as the kindest, the most delightful of women,
only wanting to make them happy, only wanting to make HIM happy, and convinced that he would
be if they were and that they would be if he was.

"What do such words mean?" Adela asked herself.  She declared privately that they meant nothing,
but she was silent, and every one was silent, on account of the advent of Miss Flynn the governess,
before whom Colonel Chart preferred not to discuss the situation. Adela recognised on the spot
that if things were to go as he wished his children would practically never again be alone
with him.  He would spend all his time with Mrs. Churchley till they were married, and then
Mrs. Churchley would spend all her time with him.  Adela was ashamed of him, and that was horrible--all
the more that every one else would be, all his other friends, every one who had known her mother.
But the public dishonour to that high memory shouldn't be enacted; he shouldn't do as he wished.

After breakfast her father remarked to her that it would give him pleasure if in a day or two
she would take her sisters to see their friend, and she replied that he should be obeyed. 
He held her hand a moment, looking at her with an argument in his eyes which presently hardened
into sternness.  He wanted to know that she forgave him, but also wanted to assure her that
he expected her to mind what she did, to go straight.  She turned away her eyes; she was indeed
ashamed of him.

She waited three days and then conveyed her sisters to the repaire, as she would have been
ready to term it, of the lioness.  That queen of beasts was surrounded with callers, as Adela
knew she would be; it was her "day" and the occasion the girl preferred.  Before this she had
spent all her time with her companions, talking to them about their mother, playing on their
memory of her, making them cry and making them laugh, reminding them of blest hours of their
early childhood, telling them anecdotes of her own.  None the less she confided to them that
she believed there was no harm at all in Mrs. Churchley, and that when the time should come
she would probably take them out immensely.  She saw with smothered irritation that they enjoyed
their visit at Prince's Gate; they had never been at anything so "grown-up," nor seen so many
smart bonnets and brilliant complexions.  Moreover they were considered with interest, quite
as if, being minor elements, yet perceptible ones, of Mrs. Churchley's new life, they had been
described in advance and were the heroines of the occasion.  There were so many ladies present
that this personage didn't talk to them much; she only called them her "chicks" and asked them
to hand about tea-cups and bread and butter.  All of which was highly agreeable and indeed
intensely exciting to Beatrice and Muriel, who had little round red spots in THEIR cheeks when
they came away.  Adela quivered with the sense that her mother's children were now Mrs. Churchley's
"chicks" and a part of the furniture of Mrs. Churchley's dreadful consciousness.

It was one thing to have made up her mind, however; it was another thing to make her attempt.
It was when she learned from Godfrey that the day was fixed, the 20th of July, only six weeks
removed, that she felt the importance of prompt action.  She learned everything from Godfrey
now, having decided it would be hypocrisy to question her father.  Even her silence was hypocritical,
but she couldn't weep and wail.  Her father showed extreme tact; taking no notice of her detachment,
treating it as a moment of bouderie he was bound to allow her and that would pout itself away.
She debated much as to whether she should take Godfrey into her confidence; she would have
done so without hesitation if he hadn't disappointed her.  He was so little what she might
have expected, and so perversely preoccupied that she could explain it only by the high pressure
at which he was living, his anxiety about his "exam."  He was in a fidget, in a fever, putting
on a spurt to come in first; sceptical moreover about his success and cynical about everything
else.  He appeared to agree to the general axiom that they didn't want a strange woman thrust
into their life, but he found Mrs. Churchley "very jolly as a person to know."  He had been
to see her by himself--he had been to see her three times.  He in fact gave it out that he
would make the most of her now; he should probably be so little in Seymour Street after these
days.  What Adela at last determined to give him was her assurance that the marriage would
never take place.  When he asked what she meant and who was to prevent it she replied that
the interesting couple would abandon the idea of themselves, or that Mrs. Churchley at least
would after a week or two back out of it.

"That will be really horrid then," Godfrey pronounced.  "The only respectable thing, at the
point they've come to, is to put it through.  Charming for poor Dad to have the air of being
'chucked'!"

This made her hesitate two days more, but she found answers more valid than any objections.
The many-voiced answer to everything--it was like the autumn wind round the house--was the
affront that fell back on her mother.  Her mother was dead but it killed her again.  So one
morning at eleven o'clock, when she knew her father was writing letters, she went out quietly
and, stopping the first hansom she met, drove to Prince's Gate. 

But what made him more than anything else tied to this monkey farm, were the countless children, who
were standing around and watching had not deepened night on their belongings. So It was the
little pickpocket already succeeded in some tissues and a well-filled to steal work bag and
hide in his coat pocket.

  

[Amusing pictures Rosaurus in the lion cage.]

Chapter 9

The evil
deed and its consequences.

  
  And this little thread is still spun so fine In the end it comes to
light but the sun.

Suddenly we heard noise at the door and said: - "the little princess would come to to see the animals.
"Everything looked out for her, and rejoiced over their friendly greetings and pretty on her dress.
- As she stood before the cage of the great lion, they gave a loud cry of surprise and horror of,
because she knew at first sight their Rosaurus. She would also take the same hand through the bars to the small
Favorite pet and to comfort her, but she pulled back startled Gogo Mlle. - The owner of Menagerie
was once asked how he had come to the kitten? and he said that he did a unknown boy had bought,
which still at that moment been here - he would immediately look
for him.

William was not found, however, and went to the very natural, for when he talks heard about the kitten,
he was bang in our hearts and he crawled under a table on which parrots stood, and the lower
chamber was fitted with a canvas curtain, and then he was rescued safely. Through a hole he could
see everything that was going on in the menagerie hear, and he could also Everything. He had as
his witness, as the owner of the kitten from the menagerie lion cage
sought and received a dollar, while he had only paid a penny for it.

Wilhelm quite annoyed that he did not even such a good deal.

He was however very scary under the table to courage, for it was under the same a great ape in confinement,
which the unqualified intruder with the long arms scratched in the neck, and under the cage of
the monkey was that of a brooding pelican, which, also indignant about the disorder, Wilhelm
bit as bad, that the trousers torn and the blood flowed. He who has had so little meat seats in
the school feared that in this way to be quite unfit to sit down and when the requesting end,
he used the moment where a fat man had brought to the table to crawl
out and behind to keep this hidden.

But since the evil in his heart could never sleep, so it escaped his attention not that the
fat man is a very well-stocked market, from which he had just an extra tip paid for the snake,
had put into the left pocket. The snake ate namely have just a dove in his usual cruel way
by the friendly face of the world the same and licked by their saliva was slippery and smooth,
then they moved the poor beast unmercifully in her throat, and you
could feel it in the deep throat still struggling.

Wilhelm said the fat man certainly would look so carefully that he would not notice if his delicate
hand to him in his pocket and took out the stock market and in a trice was this hand even indoors.
But at that moment felt Wilhelm, that it from another, more powerful Hand was taken, which already
had under his coat that has been suspended, and his was at the same time Elbow taken, and with great
force to a jerk of his arm like a dry piece of wood bruised. Wilhelm screamed in shock and pain
and when the fat man turns to him, because he recognized him as the same, which recently gave him
two slaps and a penny had.

It was the police, Mr President. "Aha, said this, we already know, and now hope I steal, you
will not soon again. "

The whole audience was aware of the crying boy and become the Princess would pity him and give him
something.

But the menagerie owner told her that it the same boy, who had sold their Rosaurus was for
the lion, also were found when emptied of his pockets a lot of stolen items. "No, this deserves
no pity," said the people.

But he still suffered great pain, pale and trembling, he stood there and all eyes were on he directed,
a surgeon, who happened to be nearby, examined his arm and said,
the same should be immediately established.

"This shall be done in my house," said Police President, "I want him to cater to me and can also
bear all costs. His parents are good certainly not much else would the boy not be so cunning. "

It was taken away because Williams, as the little princess with her after Rosaurus Went home and
undertook, his life much more pleasant to do than before. - You could not imagine how he had come
in the bad boy's hands and as Mlle Gogo finally moved further inquiries,
and one after the description of William and after the work bag, he
still had, long recognized as the cause of Jenny Rosaurus disappearance,
as was the latter declared that they should never be invited back
for the little princess which was a major penalty and a great shame,
however.

Her father then sent in an institution and it was hoped that she would like to return from
there.

It was pretty good, that William was in good care, because at home
there was indeed at all.

His Father had cut off the timber read a young tree and was caught, one had he has to work
as a punishment for Waldbusser and because the mother could earn nothing, was not Money at home.

In
the house of the President, however, there was nothing. Wilhelm was in the neat bed in a lovely chamber.
A friendly maid served him and nursed him. got the first few days it merely to enjoy soup
and water-cooling beverage, later, caused a stronger food; a friendly physician visited him every
day and the President brought him pictures and books and sat for hours on his bed, to tell him
stories, he knew that very beautiful: from clever children, rather than their spiritual gifts
to learning something useful or be addressed, they used to other people to trick and deceive,
and he also told of crimes, which were long kept secret, but finally
came to light and the offenders brought to punishment.

The finger of God.

In a small town there lived a happy family, the parents were good and the Children brought up
well. Only one son, named Louis was, by his violent character often cause for dissatisfaction,
yet he had a vindictive mind, and in the hour of his anger He had many a friend has hurt you and
often hurt the siblings difficult. Despite all Ideas he had not taken this error, and he was
now 16 years confirmirt, and even always interrupted from time to
time, at insignificant occasion, from his blind rage and expressed
has any misdeed, the effects however, were never so important that
they are a different punishment as the complaints had caused the father.

One

day Louis was advised by the son of a landowner while dancing in dispute, in Fury kindled,
he wanted to go with his fist on his opponent, but this, more like he seized him by the collar
and threw him out the door.

Brooding revenge Ludwig went home, he had to pass before a working farm, which his father his
opponent was and should be used to its inheritance. He could be offensive probably no greater
inflict mischief, as if he burned the same. Was still it in the excitement of anger and he quickly
grabbed the lighter and threw some smoldering Of sponge in the window. Since this is not the same
set fire, he took a wax-candle, which had been on the sister tree, and threw it into the burning
straw. - Then he went on. He had hardly done the evil deed, as his anger and he slept she began
to repent, and he hoped it would not catch fire. When he but one hour to bed was, he heard the
alarm of fire. He hurried to the fire site, he helped with rescue and delete; He was tireless
and shrink from no danger. He even brought a child from the flames, where he himself was badly
damaged, but nothing could appease the raging throb of his heart. The estate was burned down, the owner
thanked those who had of saving behülflich and Ludwig were above all others, the thanks that
this very painful. He would like his belongings' and property devoted to compensate him. - Man
is tormented by suspicions of who the fire neither the landlord nor his son were Someone insulted;;
have created it knew no enemy, they had found nothing of the incendiaries, when a wax stick,
which was extinguished and had not fulfilled its purpose. There are so many wax stick gives
the World. This could not possibly lead to the culprit.

Ludwig became daily more serious and introspective. His cheeks turned pale, he slept not at
night, his conscience tormented him, and he was afraid they might discover yet again, that he
was an incendiary, and punish him for it. One day he was picked up really and interrogated.
- One of the investigating judge was Ludwig's father together in the residence and they have
been together the colorful wax candles had bought for the Christmas tree, so he knew where
such lights had no sooner was this track is found, we thought of the controversy, what Ludwig
had the night before the fire. Then they noticed his restless nature, his pale cheeks. He was
interrogated, confessed and was sentenced to many years in prison. Thus, even the mysterious comes
to light.

Christian, the son of a laborer was, once past a garden where apricots to a tree hung. The fruits
were ripe and had the most beautiful red cheeks. "The I want to remember me, "thought the boy naschlustige,"
tonight, when it is dark, the coming of . And I'll get it to me "- When he was gone, came Peter,
the son of the shepherd and his father had sent him to beg and he came home with a bag full
Brodrinden. But he was very tired and he was still far from home, he lay down in front of the garden
gate, which is a kind of shelter offered, and fell asleep. - He awoke by a noise and saw someone
climb over the wall. Christian had indeed looked around cautiously, but the resting in the
shadow of the door Shepherd boy to be discovered. The little saw Peter on the other hand the moonlight
the Entrant, wanted to disturb him but not because he feared the same could beat him. He lay
So on the other side and slept on. The next morning he was rudely by the gardener awakened, who
held him for the thief and dragged him before the police certainly did; But Peter protested
his innocence, he showed the contents of his beggar's bag and called because everything did not
help the real thief. Really was the gardener, which is equal in Christian Housing was the stolen fruit,
while Christian still fast asleep, it had a Part of the night by watching and was firmly convinced
that no one had seen him. - God sees But always and know to steer whatsoever, then, that human
justice is experienced and achieved that here on earth, the punishment to the criminals.

In the beginning of Wilhelm heard just grumpy, he had had this pain and pain Man who sat before
him caused. Gradually, however, softened the loving words his mind, and it was he often felt
as it would suddenly his soul day, falling as a veil before his eyes down and he realized a
truth, this truth was, however: Honesty is the best.

One day, when William had had a painless night and leave for the first time the bed could, of course,
with festgeschientem arm, asked the president, he with his kind gentle Voice, "I say quite frankly,
because what you actually with your hand in my pocket wanted? "

Wilhelm. I wanted to get out your wallet.

President. Did you not know that it was stolen?

Wilhelm. Oh, yes! I knew very well.

President. Did not you know that stealing was wrong?

Wilhelm.

I do not know so very well, I knew only that one is punished, if
one find yourself left and I have never caught me (here Wilhelm smiled
triumphantly).

President. Did you steal for the pleasure?

Wilhelm. Yes! very large, especially when I started it right and if
I sent a large Effort succeeded.

Also, I was happy when I brought something home, and at home could all you need.

President. Did your parents because that what you brought home, was stolen property?

Wilhelm was silent embarrassment, he was afraid to betray his parents,
"parents," he said, sent me out with his sister to beg - but it went
too slow, we brought little together, barely enough to buy bread and
I wanted to but sometimes a bit Eat cake.

It looks so nice things about the Condi gates stand at the window, which gives pleasure to snack
and I found it unfair that the rich should only enjoy such good things.

"

President.

When God created rich and poor, he must have been very wise intentions. The Arms can by the way
rich, the rich become poor, the poor will be rich but only through
work, not due to theft, for the sin lies not a blessing.

I will give you resources with which type that can make you rich
if you want to be honest and hardworking.

Wilhelm.

Yes, I will!

President. Well, so give me a hand on you to take no more foreign property to you will.

William promised.

President. Also, promise me never to lie.

Wilhelm is also promised.

President. I will take you to a school where you get educated and
informed, then I let you learn a craft, which can feed you, and you
can choose you one.

Wilhelm. I would like to become a baker or confectioner.

President.
Haha! probably because of the good cake.

Wilhelm. I mean, it must
be a pleasure to prepare what so many people well tastes.

President.
Well done, my boy, it's right, if not only to themselves but also
think of others. Are you still angry with me that I'll broke his arm
in my pocket. I can in my own pocket but do what I want and what is
not lost call in, must have all fallen.

Wilhelm. I am now very happy
that you broke my arm and I will always be very grateful if you let
me learn something bold.

When the President met one day the little
princess asked them:

"What makes the little bad boy?"

"He's not
a bad boy anymore," said the President, "and it would be no bad guy
type in the world if not the parents were angry. "He then told how
educated William been and that he still had other siblings.  I told her the question troubled
me unspeakably, but that I had made up my mind it was my duty to initiate her."  Adela paused,
the light of bravado in her face, as if, though struck while the words came with the monstrosity
of what she had done, she was incapable of abating a jot of it.  "I notified her that he had
faults and peculiarities that made mamma's life a long worry--a martyrdom that she hid wonderfully
from the world, but that we saw and that I had often pitied.  I told her what they were, these
faults and peculiarities; I put the dots on the i's.  I said it wasn't fair to let another
person marry him without a warning.  I warned her; I satisfied my conscience.  She could do
as she liked.  My responsibility was over."

Godfrey gazed at her; he listened with parted lips, incredulous and appalled.  "You invented
such a tissue of falsities and calumnies, and you talk about your conscience?  You stand there
in your senses and proclaim your crime?"

"I'd have committed any crime that would have rescued us."

"You insult and blacken and ruin your own father?" Godfrey kept on.

"He'll never know it; she took a vow she wouldn't tell him."

"Ah I'll he damned if I won't tell him!" he rang out.

Adela felt sick at this, but she flamed up to resent the treachery, as it struck her, of such
a menace.  "I did right--I did right!" she vehemently declared "I went down on my knees to
pray for guidance, and I saved mamma's memory from outrage.  But if I hadn't, if I hadn't"--she
faltered an instant--"I'm not worse than you, and I'm not so bad, for you've done something
that you're ashamed to tell me."

He had taken out his watch; he looked at it with quick intensity, as if not hearing nor heeding
her.  Then, his calculating eyes raised, he fixed her long enough to exclaim with unsurpassable
horror and contempt:  "You raving maniac!"  He turned away from her; he bounded down the avenue
in the direction from which they had come, and, while she watched him, strode away, across
the grass, toward the short cut to the station.

CHAPTER IV

His bags, by the time she got home, had been brought to the house, but Beatrice and Muriel,
immediately informed of this, waited for their brother in vain.  Their sister said nothing
to them of her having seen him, and she accepted after a little, with a calmness that surprised
herself, the idea that he had returned to town to denounce her.  She believed this would make
no difference now--she had done what she had done.  She had somehow a stiff faith in Mrs. Churchley.
Once that so considerable mass had received its impetus it wouldn't, it couldn't pull up. 
It represented a heavy-footed person, incapable of further agility.  Adela recognised too how
well it might have come over her that there were too many children. Lastly the girl fortified
herself with the reflexion, grotesque in the conditions and conducing to prove her sense of
humour not high, that her father was after all not a man to be played with.  It seemed to her
at any rate that if she HAD baffled his unholy purpose she could bear anything--bear imprisonment
and bread and water, bear lashes and torture, bear even his lifelong reproach.  What she could
bear least was the wonder of the inconvenience she had inflicted on Godfrey.  She had time
to turn this over, very vainly, for a succession of days--days more numerous than she had expected,
which passed without bringing her from London any summons to come up and take her punishment.
She sounded the possible, she compared the degrees of the probable; feeling however that as
a cloistered girl she was poorly equipped for speculation. 

On the other hand, had the frequent look of regular geometric figures within a predisposed Spirit
of even the prospect of unknown properties irritate them, and perhaps the valley of tables set
by the halving of the circle by a diameter no more than a from the consideration of those
Egyptian drawings derived abstraction, and we pay homage in this respect the view that Thales
* * the saying of the above, for us, of course very simple-sounding record, probably wanted to
say, only the circle have the excellent Property of all by one point, the center, straight lines in
noisy with each other equal parts to be divided.

Of particular importance However, we consider the previously-quoted dictum complacent * Of
* Democritus to be giving us Egyptians unjustified underestimation Construction skill can save.
Demokritos of concern in * * 'statement could possibly appear that self-praise, which he donates
to, if it is now probably already in antiquity Men might be that their fame preferably and
often owed only the high estimate, they paid to themselves and their work, men who in the dissemination
of their own Praise busy so so tirelessly were that to them as the most convinced of it still
Group of believers was that the, often only on swaying feet attendant fame their prophet led
on, yet the importance of the extension by such surveyor * * Demokritos many and various springs
authenticated sayings that it surely no one will occur to his authority as that of a thorough
knowledge of the geometry of his time to doubt. Well we are * on the geometric works of the *
Democritus, and hardly received from all the only general-sounding title.

While Cicero us * * (26), these philosophers as a learned, perfect
in geometry versed man advertises, informs us * * Diogenes Laertius
(27) with that of Democritus * * "

Geometry, "" about numbers, "" about the difference of the gnomon, or by touching the circle
and the ball, "as well as two books" of irrational lines and the thick things, "wrote I, fonts,
that contain partially leave us completely in the dark about its contents. Place We relied on the
testimonies faith, and it is no reason not to Thuh, Sun suppose we have to * * of Democritus
as a 'perfect man in geometry, " that he with the achievements of the * * Pythagoras, who a
century before Democritus * * Egypt had attended, was entirely familiar. Certainly it was thus
known: the method the "establishment of the land," which reflects the familiarity with the main
clauses of the theory the parallels and the angle, as the knowledge of the dependence of the
areas of concerned their respective Ausmaassen requires. No less known to him had to, the
* * Pythagoras be attributed to constructions of the five regular and so-called cosmic body, from
which it can be concluded further that even the one hand, the properties of the ball, which
but those bodies were enrolled, and on the other hand, the emergence of regular, those bodies bounding
polygons, above all, the pentagon of the Demokritos * * not unfamiliar could be. The construction
of the latter in turn demanded a knowledge of the doctrine of golden section, and that the law
of the squares of the hypotenuse (28). Now has Demokritos * * and even added anything new,
so he had to know That, if he is now on the other hand says, "No one in the construct would have
it, not even" exceeded the Harpedonapten of the Egyptians, we may conclude from this with confidence
that the geometric knowledge of the Egyptian Priests must have been important enough, because
Democritus * * hardly ever just about the surveyor would set.

But we leave for now the news of the Greek antiquity, which in judging Egyptian geometry allow only
conjectures, and we look for direct Egyptian monuments Origin from which conclusions could perhaps
be drawn on the nature and scope of Egyptian Geometry.

The British Museum keeps a roll of papyrus, which from the estate of the Englishman * A. Henry Rhind
* is the same valuable addition to other roles in Egypt to käufllich
should have brought themselves.

The official referred to papyrus, an ancient Egyptian monument mathematics, is, apparently,
"not with the fullest authority as a" Handbook of mathematical ancient Egyptians were known
(29). The question Papyrus calls himself an imitation earlier mathematical writings, because
it says in the introduction, "was posted this font in thirty-three in the fourth month of
the water time of King Ra-a-us, giving life written after the model of old magazines in the Time
of King ... at the scribe Aahmes the Scriptures. "

After first Dr. * Birch * (30) on these mathematical papyrus by a short preliminary Report had
drawn attention, was the subject of the excellent Heidelberger Egyptologists
Dr. Eisenlohr * * a detailed, extremely difficult and time-consuming
investigation subject, the results in terms of the translation, our
present observations are based.

Regarding the age of the papyrus that has one of the existing copy indistinguishable from the age
of the unknown original. After the * of * Eisenlohr given Completion of the mentioned in the
introduction to the word king following gap would the ruler, whose Government has been developed
in the original, be the king * Ra-en-mat *, whose reign Lepsius * * (31) 2221-2179 BC, G. sets.
Further, since the name * Ra-a-us * not in the king lists available at the time occurs, you
could see in to the time of the creation copy of at least being able to give approximate, dependent
on the known Custom of the Egyptians, the proper names of just ruling or the immediately preceding
to use rulers to draw conclusions. And since left the name of the writer Aahmes * * and suppose
the (althieratische) writing of the papyrus, that the same around 1700 BC G. may have arisen. The
conjecture regarding the age of the copy has Now new research to sequence fully confirmed. For * Ra-a-us
* was calculated as the Hyksos Apophis * * recognized and * should * Aahmes its name from
the short time the previous Apophis King Amasis * * have borrowed.

It seems so completely sure that our papyrus of the eighteenth century is BC G.. The opening
words of the papyrus, which are: to go "rule for Knowledge of all things dark, all the secrets,
which are included in the objects' and the arrangement of the material in arithmetic, plane geometry
and solid geometry, to which the one, several examples containing portion adjoins could, in the first
moments of the Thoughts can arise, that we might be dealing with
a textbook of mathematics have.

However, the fact that the papyrus only the composition, however, a certain Grade systematic
set of tasks together with their solutions and the related is samples that occur without definitions
or theorems and proofs, would let the papyrus again as an object collection, as a guide book
published for practitioners. It is have gone further and established the view that the author
had in drafting this document especially on country people to which the theory was inaccessible
to thought. Then not as only formulate the greater part of the tasks which circumstances and
needs take account of agriculture, but also the final sentence of the papyrus, which says: "Catch
the bugs and the mice, (blotted out) the various types of weeds, ask God * Ra * "To heat,
wind and high water.

The fact that we are not dealing with a hand book, which the former positions of the mathematical
correspond sciences in Egypt would have to do, resulting not only from the already highlighted
the lack of definitions, theorems and proofs, so it lacks any self- Declaration, but also
from the circumstance that in addition to the true solution of individual tasks the incorrect
or incomplete solutions of the same or similar tasks, as well as some Repetitions. In passing,
we point out that, undoubtedly in an exposition at least hints of
the first of the sciences of antiquity, in astronomy to find out need
to be.

But is this part of mathematics in the papyrus is not the slightest trace to find. Showers
on the true nature of our original papyrus, and many Probability of owning conjecture about
the origin of the copy we are concerned, we owe to the sagacity of the French Egyptologists Eugène
Revillout * *. (32)

With proper consideration of the fact that often have a flawless dissolved example, false Solutions
of similar examples to follow, which is then usually a series of Uebungsrechnungen adjoined to see
bills to a school workload highly similar when viewed the fact also, as one and the same numerical
example, often several times and in such treated is that occurring in sequence, the numerical values
​​than the calculated results appear, forced upon us by * Eugene * Revillout the conviction that
we are dealing with the practice or to do homework notebooks of a
pupil of that class houses (a × sbo), such as that in so many papyrus
mentioning is happening and where the students who later agriculturists,
administrators, wanted to be a surveyor or Constructeur, with the
necessary for their future careers Accounting operations were familiar.

As this exercise book, of course not could be for the public, so it bears no author's name actually
and no indication of the year, for which the subject during the initiation of the time period in which
the original should be created, made mention of is concerned, is more than likely that the
same arises from the copyists Aahmes * * that the original few Centuries auffand after its occurrence,
and the same, certainly quite ignorant of mathematics, together with all Errors copied, still new
to this adding. After Aahmes * * from the similarity of Font of the book with the writing of other
mathematical papyri known him to age the former might have pulled the whole, not incorrect
conclusion, it we may end, perhaps the middle of the third millennium BC than those G. Consider time
in which the original copy should be created. Whether Aahmes * * the transcript of the promising
introduction and at the same time practical and God-fearing Final rule was provided with the
intent to bring it into some simple Egyptian compatriot to bring good money, we leave undecided,
and only repeat our agreement with the view that the original copy of the papyrus in addition
to originating from a teacher of mathematics Pattern examples, which contains very often unsuccessful
exercises of a student, a student moreover, who did not have one of the outstanding his Glasse.
And how precious but this is ancient Egyptian exercise book! If we hastily a sketch of its contents
will have to demonstrate, we must first on eight columns of the above-mentioned initiation subsequent
division of the number 2 mentioned by the numbers from 3 to 99, each occurring Break appears in
two to four so-called unit fractions, fractions separated by one meter, and the denominator
of the latter are usually even numbers with a greater Divisorenanzahl. Following this table,
we find six examples in which, in the form of Brodvertheilungen The division of the numbers
l, 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9 are taught by the number 10, and it follows then in 17 examples, the so-called sequences
or complementary statement in which it is a question to find numerical values ​​that are associated
with given value by addition or multiplication, other given numerical values ​​provide. The next
15 examples include the so-called * * Haurechnung to, and we find in this section the solutions of linear
equations with one unknown. Two others, called Tunnu * * or difference accounts belonging to
teach examples us that the ancient Egyptians, the concept was not unfamiliar arithmetic series.
It now following seven examples of volumetric analysis, the same number of geometry and five examples
on calculations of pyramids, ie 19 tasks on which we later say a few words need.

Close thereto finally borrowed twenty-three different matters, questions of Examples of civic
life in question, as the calculation of the value of jewelry, once distribution of bread or
cereal, determining the net of a day Parts of an annual income, calculation of wages, food and the
food for poultry farms. A special notice appear worthy of us in this last division two examples,
one of them (33) leaves no doubt that the old Egyptians, the theory of arithmetic progressions was
perfectly familiar, as we in the second (34) under the label "a ladder" up the geometric progression
of 7 1-7 find high-5 together with their sum, the individual powers of its own name: an, Cat, mouse,
barley, Maass seem to lead.

Not go unnoticed, we can finally occurring in the use of mathematical Haurechnungen Characters,
so the left and right legs striding for addition and subtraction, three horizontal arrows
for difference, and finally a special, not much unlike ours Equal sign.

From the geometric parts we raise, first, not the arrangement of the papyrus follows that Area
calculations of fields produced. The occurring examples are based on square, rectangular, circular
and trapezoid-shaped fields, the area contents of their length Maassen be determined. Once in
the tasks of calculating the capacity of fruit storage with a square base this latter is found
by multiplying the number Maas the page itself, it can be no doubt that the surface of the Rectangle
by multiplying the two figures together Maas shock of pages was obtained because the knowledge
of the correctness of one of determination, that the accuracy of the other involvirt.

Even the consideration of such proportional Maas rods, as we noted in the grave * * Belzoni
could have the ancient Egyptians, the deal with equations and arithmetic
series knew on the determination of the area of ​​a rectangle from
its two side lengths necessity must lead, and we will get by the fact
that in the papyrus of the related A task not to their corresponding
solution is accompanied by no means be deterred.

It is of great interest to those occurring in several places of the papyrus method of area calculation
a circle, showing that the ancient Egyptians almost approaching the
circle quadriren knew to quadriren in fact, because they are derived
from the diameter of a length which provides a side a square whose
area is that of the group was identified.

As they made eight ninths of the diameter to the side of that square, this corresponds to a value
of Ludolph number, which the true value compared to less than two Hundredths (to 0.018901) appears
too high, for the third millennium BC, G. And compared to the value of pi = 3, the Babylonians,
and even more in comparison with the values pi = 4 later Roman surveyors, at least one not to be underestimated
approach to the correct value.

An object of the treated area determination of the triangle, with the result as the product two side
lengths is found. The attached figure here (35), which in reality scalene triangle is elongated,
may just as well as the failed drawing a rectangular and of an isosceles
triangle are considered.

  Colonel Chart was aimless and bored; he paced up and down and went back to
smoking, which was bad for him, and looked drearily out of windows as if on the bare chance
that something might arrive.  Did he expect Mrs. Churchley to arrive, did he expect her to
relent on finding she couldn't live without him?  It was Adela's belief that she gave no sign.
But the girl thought it really remarkable of her not to have betrayed her ingenious young visitor.
Adela's judgement of human nature was perhaps harsh, but she believed that most women, given
the various facts, wouldn't have been so forbearing.  This lady's conception of the point of
honour placed her there in a finer and purer light than had at all originally promised to shine
about her.

She meanwhile herself could well judge how heavy her father found the burden of Godfrey's folly
and how he was incommoded at having to pay the horrible woman six hundred a year.  Doubtless
he was having dreadful letters from her; doubtless she threatened them all with hideous exposure.
If the matter should be bruited Godfrey's prospects would collapse on the spot.  He thought
Madrid very charming and curious, but Mrs. Godfrey was in England, so that his father had to
face the music.  Adela took a dolorous comfort in her mother's being out of that--it would
have killed her; but this didn't blind her to the fact that the comfort for her father would
perhaps have been greater if he had had some one to talk to about his trouble.  He never dreamed
of doing so to her, and she felt she couldn't ask him.  In the family life he wanted utter
silence about it.  Early in the winter he went abroad for ten weeks, leaving her with her sisters
in the country, where it was not to be denied that at this time existence had very little savour.
She half expected her sister-in-law would again descend on her; but the fear wasn't justified,
and the quietude of the awful creature seemed really to vibrate with the ring of gold-pieces.
There were sure to be extras. Adela winced at the extras.  Colonel Chart went to Paris and
to Monte Carlo and then to Madrid to see his boy.  His daughter had the vision of his perhaps
meeting Mrs. Churchley somewhere, since, if she had gone for a year, she would still be on
the Continent. And high up already ruled since
time immemorial Dschinnistan about a dynasty big-hearted,
real king minded princes, whose primary Law in blissful shortly is:
"D uref st of E ngeldeines N ae ensein ch st, ch damitduni TDIR
inde eufelwerde st st for T! "

    And as long as this Dschinnistan, this land of Noble
people is, is every citizen and every Citizen was required
of it, secretly and without betraying the guardian angel
of a resp. a Others to be. So in Dschinnistan happiness
and sunshine, however, in Ardistan around a deep, spiritual Darkness
and the secret banned because Jammer after release
from the misery of hell! Is it any wonder that down
there in the lowlands is becoming increasing desire
for the Highlands was created? That advanced among the
souls there to free themselves from the darkness and redeem
? Search Millions and millions of feel in the Marsh
of Ardistan well. They are the miasma usual. You do
not want it any other way. You would not in the pure air
of Dschinistan can exist. These are not just the
poorest and the least, but even the most powerful
level, the Richest and most distinguished of the
country, the Pharisees, the sinners need to be able to appear
just, Have the property owners, which poor people are needed
to them to serve as a foil, the comfortable, what workers
must have in order to maintain in peace, and above all
Things the clever, smart, which the stupid ones, the
Truster, the honest ones are indispensable to be exploited
to them.
  Papa defended me, he refused
to sacrifice me, and this led practically to their rupture.  Papa gave her up, as it were,
for ME.  Fancy the angel, and fancy what I must try to be to him for the rest of his life!
Mrs. Churchley can never come back--she's going to marry Lord Dovedale."

