At two o'clock we were lined up, the British at the extreme rear as usual, and marched off.
Upon reaching the kitchen we were alarmed to learn that there were insufficient basins. Several
would have to use the one utensil successively, and, needless to say, without being washed
after each use. Apart from this repulsive method of feeding us as if we were dogs, the time
occupied in getting one's ration proved maddening. After one had swallowed the thin cabbage
soup hastily, one had to advance and join the group comprising those who had been served. The
result was that by the time the last of the British prisoners had been supplied some three
hours had passed. Yet this was the first meal which some of the men had received for three
days! I may say that one felt far from satisfied after swallowing the noisome greasy wash.

In the evening, while working upon our hut to impart the finishing touches speedily, because
rain was falling, I stumbled across three of the disgraced and disfigured fishermen. They were
alone and forlorn. They had no hut and did not know what would happen if another wet night
swept over them. One happened to be the skipper of one of the trawlers which had been sunk
and he vehemently denied the charge that they had been guilty of laying or sweeping mines.
They were attending to their trawls when they were surprised and captured.

The skipper was an interesting, typical sea-dog from the waters of the North Sea, and a thorough
God-fearing man. He related a story which made our blood boil. He said his two companions and
himself were summoned by the guards at mid-day, and instead of receiving the dinner ration
had been taken to a covered hand-cart. The guard told them to push it, and at the same time
handed them shovels and picks. Under escort they dragged this mysterious load, which was carefully
covered with a tarpaulin, for about three miles to a very lonely spot. At last they came to
a deep hole. They were compelled to back the cart to the brink of the pit, and were then curtly
bidden to tip it sharply.

To the utter amazement of the skipper and his two colleagues the action of tipping the cart
shot into the hole, with considerable force, the corpse of a Belgian. He was dumped into the
hole in this rough and ready manner, head first, and to the disgust of the Britishers the body
was clothed merely in a shirt! They were then commanded to refill the hole. Thus, without the
slightest burial ceremony, with a brutality which would not have been shown to a dog, and without
the slightest expression of regret, save one of silence from the three Britishers, the unknown
Belgian was consigned to an unknown grave. Who the Belgian was, or how he came by his death,
no one ever knew, but it is surmised that he died from exposure upon the field during the night
of the 11th.

These three fishermen being friendless and homeless, my chum and I decided to see what we could
do for them. We proposed to attach a lean-to shelter to our hut. Poles were driven into the
ground, and to these horizontal members were attached, the latter having the inner ends sunk
into our walls. For the roof we used our blankets. It was a primitive shelter, but it protected
the three men from the rain which again broke over us and for this expression of camaraderie
they were extremely grateful.

Our transference to the field provoked the most spirited bout we had ever witnessed between
the Commandant and Dr. Ascher. The doctor could do nothing towards securing us shelters: that
was exclusively a matter for Major Bach to decide. But he had control over the sanitary arrangements,
and he condemned these unequivocally. The stench rising from the open latrines which swept
over the field was indescribable. Dr. Ascher flew into a fierce temper over the shortcomings
and detestable arrangements, which he maintained to be a serious menace to the health of the
camp. We strove desperately to escape the horrible effluvium, but it could not be avoided unless
we buried our heads. Dr. Ascher, by taking up a firm stand, had his way on this occasion, although
the nature of the improvement I think caused him to despair of securing the proper amelioration
of the conditions. The military authorities did not appear to know even the rudiments of sanitary
science, which, as I found for myself, are ever indescribably crude away from the show towns
which are patronised by tourists.

I had been hoping that I would be able to shake off my illness. But it was not to be. The exposure
and thorough soaking which I had on the terrible night of the 11th completely undid all the
benefits I had received from Dr. Ascher's attention and treatment. I cracked up suddenly. The
doctor, seeing how badly things were going with me, gave me a "pass" excusing me from all work.

But to me it was obvious that to remain on the field was to die from starvation, especially
bearing in mind my precarious health. Yet to get out of the field was no easy matter. I pondered
fretfully over this issue, and at last resolved to attempt a desperate solution. I marched
boldly to the gate, waved an old, long-since expired "pass" and shouted to the sentry that
I had to go to the doctor's office immediately. Taken unawares the guard opened the gate without
scanning the "pass" and I walked on to the main road leading to the barracks in which we had
lived previously. The little extra exertion demanded to pass the sentry without creating any
suspicions in his mind now told on me. Once I had passed out of his sight the reaction set
in, and I fell into a clockwork pace. I was determined to fulfil my mission at all hazards,
so plodded along slowly. I could see nothing, and heeded nothing, being only conscious of the
fact that I was going to get something to eat and to bring food back for my stranded companions
on the field. Soon everything seemed to grow darker and darker, then came perfect blackness.
I remembered no more.

When I came to my senses I found myself being borne carefully by two fellow-prisoners--Ca----
and a chum--to the hospital. I was put to bed, and looking round I saw that I was surrounded
by twenty-five other patients. One and all had dropped down from sheer exhaustion upon the
field during the "Bloody Night," and had been found by the guard in the morning in an unconscious
condition. I heard that there were seventy such cases brought in--all caused by exposure and
the rain. I cannot testify to that number, but I can swear to the twenty-five cases because
I saw them in the hospital lying in the ward with me. They were then in a terrible plight,
not having recovered from the racking ordeal.

Presently a military doctor came in. I had never seen him before. He approached my cot.

"Civilian or military?" he asked.

"Civilian!" I replied.

"Ach!" and there was intense disgust and unveiled hostility in his voice. "Get up! Outside!"

"But he has been brought in unconscious!" persisted Ca----.

"Ach! No matter. Get up. Outside!" he repeated.

"I'll see you damned first!" exploded Ca----, his Irish temper now roused to bursting point
at the inhuman attitude of the military medical official. Fortunately for my friend the individual
in question did not understand a word of English, or there would have been trouble.

But feeling somewhat better and realising the uselessness of argument I persuaded Ca---- to
obey instructions. Indeed I was bundled out of bed, and hastily assisted in re-dressing, by
the doctor's orders. Passing out of the hospital I paused to lean against the door, feeling
downright ill and weak. Ca---- ran off to the barrack to fetch Dr. Ascher.

A young medical man came out of the hospital, and seeing my wan and haggard face, came up to
me. He was certainly sympathetic.

"Heavens, man! You look downright ill!" was his comment.

"I reckon I don't look worse than I feel!" I replied caustically. "I've just been turned out
of the hospital. What is going to happen?"

"Oh! You've got to go to Paderborn. You'll go into hospital there. The van will be up in three
hours' time!"

At this intelligence I sank on a wooden seat. I felt, and indeed could no longer ward off,
the belief that everything for me was rapidly approaching the end. As I sat there a prey to
my worst thoughts, a soldier came out of the hospital and sat beside me. I looked up.

"Hullo! old man! From Mons?" I asked.

"Yes! Going to Paderborn. Says I'm sick," nodding towards the hospital. The Tommy certainly
looked as if the doctor had diagnosed a case correctly for once in his life.

"What's the matter?"

"Don't know for sure. But I heard the doctor whisper to an assistant that it was typhus!"

Despite my efforts to control myself I could not suppress a low whistle. I looked at the soldier,
and although my first inclination was to move away, I felt that, owing to my condition, it
really didn't matter, so I spared the Tommy's feelings. In a few minutes another soldier came
out. He sat on the other side of me.

"Hullo! You from Mons too? You going to Paderborn?" was my query.

"Sure! Doctor says I've got typhus!"

This was alarming news, and I could not resist a feeling of extreme apprehension. While I was
turning things over in my mind a third soldier came out whom I questioned, but he did not reply.

"He was blinded by a shell at Mons," commented one of the soldiers. "Guess he's got it too.
'Strewth, isn't this a hell of a hole? I'd sooner have fifty Mons's for a month than this hell
for a day!"

I certainly shared the opinion. But as I sat there I reflected upon the limited carrying capacity
of the Paderborn hospital van, and the circumstance that I was likely to be crushed in with
a host of typhus cases. I did not like the prospect a little bit. I made up my mind. I would
not go to Paderborn at any cost.

Proffering a palpable excuse I sauntered away, finally entering the office in which the files
of the registration of the British military prisoners were being prepared. A young German who
in pre-war days had been a baker in Battersea, was in charge. I told him I was sick, but enquired,
if receiving the requisite permission from the doctor, he would allow me to help him in the
office. He agreed. I sought out Dr. Ascher, explained that I had been consigned to Paderborn,
but refused to go, and explained that I had the offer to go into the office if he would certify
me for such work. After a little deliberation he acquiesced, and I took up the appointment
with the result I have explained in a previous chapter. After a good night's rest I felt decidedly
better. I returned to the field, only to find that my companions had experienced no improvement
in their conditions, and that food was just as scarce as it had been since we were turned out
of our barracks. I was successful in getting a little food to them, while another prisoner,
now in England, sent up a little.

Strolling across the field I met a fellow-prisoner, Lord J----'s secretary. He looked so ill
that I suggested he should take my place in the office, as I was now feeling much better. He
refused at first, but at last I prevailed upon him to go. He would get a well-earned rest at
all events, while the work was light and easy. The exchange of clerks was effected and with
such success that the German in charge never detected the swop, which proves how imperfectly
I had been scrutinised, and the laxity of the arrangements when you have learned how to circumvent
the pit-falls and red-tape of Prussian organisation.

I was now back upon the field. One night the officers came round bawling out a request for
the names of all prisoners who had friends in Germany. Seeing that this question, together
with a host of others, had been asked nearly every day, while sheets of papers were filled
up at intervals of every few hours with a bewildering array of particulars, I ignored the interrogation.
But one or two fellow-prisoners recalled the fact that K----, upon his release, had invited
me to come to his home in Cologne if I ever got the chance. At first I declined to listen to
the recommendations, but finally, in response to the incessant pesterings, I consented. Then
the matter slipped from my mind.

The following morning my attention was arrested by the guard going round the camp singing at
the top of his voice, "Ma-hone-i! Ma-hone-i!"

Surprised, and fearing that trouble was brewing because I had not gone to Paderborn as ordered
by the military doctor, I presented myself. I was commanded to attend the office at once.

I sauntered off leisurely, and reaching the building, I supplied the officer in charge with
my name and a host of other minute details as requested. Then turning to me, and holding a
paper in his hands, he remarked:

"Herr Ma-hone-i! You are a free man!"

"What?" I yapped, scarcely believing I had heard aright, "A free man?" I almost cried with
joy at the news. "Free to go home to England?" I asked excitedly.

"Nein! Nein!! Nein!!! But you have friends in Germany?"

My jaw dropped. I thought for a few minutes, and then I replied slowly, "Yes! I'll go provided
I do not have to give my parole. That I will never do!"

He glared furiously at me.

"But that is as good as saying you'll try to escape," he went on.

"Exactly!" was my curt retort, and I looked at him defiantly.

The officer informed me that under these circumstances I should be kept back, but at this moment
Dr. Ascher, who had been listening to the conversation, intervened, and as a result of his
mediation I was told that I was free to go to Cologne, saying which a "pass" permitting me
to travel to, and to move about that city, was proffered. I took the "pass."

"You've ten minutes to collect your belongings and to get out of the camp!" was his final abrupt
remark. Although I pleaded for a little longer time in which to say farewell to my friends
he was inexorable.

I rushed back to the field to communicate the news to my companions, and the hand-shaking which
ensued was extremely fervent. All the boys congratulated me upon my good luck, but the tears
were in their eyes. The sympathy moved me, and I felt half-disposed to tear up my "pass" and
stay with them to see it through. But they pushed me off. I had a hearty hand-shaking with
Dr. Ascher, who wished me the best of luck, and expressed the hope that I would soon get home.
Although he never admitted it I found out for a fact that he had been primarily responsible
for my release. It certainly was characteristic of him. He cracked a parting joke, which restored
the good humour and cheerfulness of the camp, and with my few parcels under my arm I left the
ill-famed field.

The boys cheered like mad, but I was stirred more particularly by the roar of cheers which
burst from the Tommies, with whom I had fraternised freely, and with whom a curious chumminess
had sprung up. We were all companions in misfortune, and when the news of my release reached
their field, they clustered along the fence to give me a parting rouser, which they certainly
let go for all they were worth.

I regained the office within the stipulated ten minutes and then to my intense disgust learned
that I had three hours to wait for a train. I sold my watch to secure a little ready money,
and as I moved across the camps to be abruptly challenged by the sentries I was surprised to
see them change their demeanour when I showed my "pass." They shook hands heartily and warmly
congratulated me upon my good fortune. It was a strange metamorphosis and it affected me strangely.

Before I left the camp I was ushered into the presence of our arch-fiend, Major Bach. He rose
from his desk and with a suavity and civility which made my blood surge, he remarked:

"Herr Mahoney, good-bye! I trust you will not think our treatment in the camp has been unduly
severe!"

"I shall certainly not speak well of it," I retorted somewhat cynically. "I shall never forget
my experiences and I shall not omit to relate it to others. But there! I think my looks are
sufficient. I must have lost three stone in weight during the past two months!"

"Well, I trust you will make allowances," he went on unctuously. "You must remember the times;
that we are at war, and that our arrangements have not been organised for adequate accommodation!"

He extended his hand.

Shaking my head in a manner which he could not misunderstand I refused to take it.

He shrugged his shoulders and resumed his work. I left his office without another word.

Two minutes later I was striding rapidly towards the station, accompanied by another prisoner,
a schoolmaster named E----, who had also been released on a "pass" and whom I have to thank
for much assistance subsequently offered.

At last I was free from the torment and brutality of Sennelager Camp. But as I watched the
incoming train on that morning of September 16th, 1914, I could not refrain from dwelling upon
the lot of the many hapless friends I had left behind, the agonies, miseries, the hopelessness
of their position, and their condemnation to unremitting brutal travail which would doubtless
continue until the clash of arms had died away. As Sennelager vanished from sight my companion
and I gave deep sighs of relief. We felt that we had left Hell behind.

PRISON THREE--KLINGELPUTZ

CHAPTER XVI

FREE ON "PASS" IN COLOGNE

It was two o'clock in the afternoon when I saw the last of Sennelager Camp as the train swung
round a curve which blotted the Avernus over which Major Bach reigned supreme from sight if
not from memory. The train in which we were travelling, of course, was wholly occupied by Germans.
I found it impossible to secure a seat owing to the crowded character of the carriages, and
as misfortune would have it I was compelled to stand until I reached my destination.

Naturally being thrown among so many of the enemy I was regarded with a strange interest by
my fellow-travellers. They could see I was not a German, and although they did not resort to
any provocative word or deed, it would have needed a blind man to have failed to detect their
uncompromising hostility towards me. We travelled via Soest, and my position was rendered additionally
unnerving because train after train labelled with the flaming Red Cross thundered by, bearing
their heavy loads of the German battered and maimed from the battlefields. It was easy to see
that the number of the train-loads of wounded was exercising a peculiar effect upon the passengers,
for was not this heavy toll of war and the crushed and bleeding flower of the German army coming
from the front where the British were so severely mauling the invincible military machine of
Europe and disputing effectively their locust-like advance over the fair fields of Belgium
and Northern France? Is it surprising under the circumstances that they glowered and frowned
at me in a disconcerting and menacing manner?

