Now just as I have nothing but praise for the average general practitioner, so I have nothing
but praise and admiration for those stalwart-looking publications. Without them I can imagine
nothing but the most terrible intellectual atrophy among our medical men. But since they are
private properties run for profit they have to pay, and half their bulk consists of the brilliantly
written advertisements of new drugs and apparatus. They give much knowledge, they do much to
ventilate perplexing questions, but a broadly conceived and properly endowed weekly circular
could, I believe, do much more. At any rate, in my Utopia this duty of feeding up the general
practitioners will not be left to private enterprise.

Behind the first line of my medical army will be a second line of able men constantly digesting
new research for its practical needs--correcting, explaining, announcing; and, in addition,
a force of public specialists to whom every difficulty in diagnosis will be at once referred.
And there will be a properly organised system of reliefs that will allow the general practitioner
and his right hand, the nurse, to come back to the refreshment of study before his knowledge
and mind have got rusty. But then my Utopia is a Socialistic system. Under our present system
of competitive scramble, under any system that reduces medical practice to mere fee-hunting
nothing of this sort is possible.

Then in my Utopia, for every medical man who was mainly occupied in practice, I would have
another who was mainly occupied in or about research. People hear so much about modern research
that they do not realise how entirely inadequate it is in amount and equipment. Our general
public is still too stupid to understand the need and value of sustained investigations in
any branch of knowledge at all. In spite of all the lessons of the last century, it still fails
to realise how discovery and invention enrich the community and how paying an investment is
the public employment of clever people to think and experiment for the benefit of all. It still
expects to get a Newton or a Joule for £800 a year, and requires him to conduct his researches
in the margin of time left over when he has got through his annual eighty or ninety lectures.
It imagines discoveries are a sort of inspiration that comes when professors are running to
catch trains. It seems incapable of imagining how enormous are the untried possibilities of
research. Of course, if you will only pay a handful of men salaries at which the cook of any
large London hotel would turn up his nose, you cannot expect to have the master minds of the
world at your service; and save for a few independent or devoted men, therefore, it is not
reasonable to suppose that such a poor little dribble of medical research as is now going on
is in the hands of persons of much more than average mental equipment. How can it be?

One hears a lot of the rigorous research into the problem of cancer that is now going on. Does
the reader realise that all the men in the whole world who are giving any considerable proportion
of their time to this cancer research would pack into a very small room, that they are working
in little groups without any properly organised system of intercommunication, and that half
of them are earning less than a quarter of the salary of a Bond Street shopwalker by those
vastly important inquiries? Not one cancer case in twenty thousand is being properly described
and reported. And yet, in comparison with other diseases, cancer is being particularly well
attended to.

The general complacency with the progress in knowledge we have made and are making is ridiculously
unjustifiable. Enormous things were no doubt done in the nineteenth century in many fields
of knowledge, but all that was done was out of all proportion petty in comparison with what
might have been done. I suppose the whole of the unprecedented progress in material knowledge
of the nineteenth century was the work of two or three thousand men, who toiled against opposition,
spite and endless disadvantages, without proper means of intercommunication and with wretched
facilities for experiment. Such discoveries as were distinctively medical were the work of
only a few hundred men. Now, suppose instead of that scattered band of un-co-ordinated workers
a great army of hundreds of thousands of well-paid men; suppose, for instance, the community
had kept as many scientific and medical investigators as it has bookmakers and racing touts
and men about town--should we not know a thousand times as much as we do about disease and
health and strength and power?

But these are Utopian questionings. The sane, practical man shakes his head, smiles pityingly
at my dreamy impracticability, and passes them by.

AN AGE OF SPECIALISATION

There is something of the phonograph in all of us, but in the sort of eminent person who makes
public speeches about education and reading, and who gives away prizes and opens educational
institutions, there seems to be little else but gramophone.

These people always say the same things, and say them in the same note. And why should they
do that if they are really individuals?

There is, I cannot but suspect, in the mysterious activities that underlie life, some trade
in records for these distinguished gramophones, and it is a trade conducted upon cheap and
wholesale lines. There must be in these demiurgic profundities a rapid manufacture of innumerable
thousands of that particular speech about "scrappy reading," and that contrast of "modern"
with "serious" literature, that babbles about in the provinces so incessantly. Gramophones
thinly disguised as bishops, gramophones still more thinly disguised as eminent statesmen,
gramophones K.C.B. and gramophones F.R.S. have brazened it at us time after time, and will
continue to brazen it to our grandchildren when we are dead and all our poor protests forgotten.
And almost equally popular in their shameless mouths is the speech that declares this present
age to be an age of specialisation. We all know the profound droop of the eminent person's
eyelids as he produces that discovery, the edifying deductions or the solemn warnings he unfolds
from this proposition, and all the dignified, inconclusive rigmarole of that cylinder. And
it is nonsense from beginning to end.

This is most distinctly not an age of specialisation. There has hardly been an age in the whole
course of history less so than the present. A few moments of reflection will suffice to demonstrate
that. This is beyond any precedent an age of change, change in the appliances of life, in the
average length of life, in the general temper of life; and the two things are incompatible.
It is only under fixed conditions that you can have men specialising.

They specialise extremely, for example, under such conditions as one had in Hindustan up to
the coming of the present generation. There the metal worker or the cloth worker, the wheelwright
or the druggist of yesterday did his work under almost exactly the same conditions as his predecessor
did it five hundred years before. He had the same resources, the same tools, the same materials;
he made the same objects for the same ends. Within the narrow limits thus set him he carried
work to a fine perfection; his hand, his mental character were subdued to his medium. His dress
and bearing even were distinctive; he was, in fact, a highly specialised man. He transmitted
his difference to his sons. Caste was the logical expression in the social organisation of
this state of high specialisation, and, indeed, what else is caste or any definite class distinctions
but that? But the most obvious fact of the present time is the disappearance of caste and the
fluctuating uncertainty of all class distinctions.

If one looks into the conditions of industrial employment specialisation will be found to linger
just in proportion as a trade has remained unaffected by inventions and innovation. The building
trade, for example, is a fairly conservative one. A brick wall is made to-day much as it was
made two hundred years ago, and the bricklayer is in consequence a highly skilled and inadaptable
specialist. No one who has not passed through a long and tedious training can lay bricks properly.
And it needs a specialist to plough a field with horses or to drive a cab through the streets
of London. Thatchers, old-fashioned cobblers, and hand workers are all specialised to a degree
no new modern calling requires. With machinery skill disappears and unspecialised intelligence
comes in. Any generally intelligent man can learn in a day or two to drive an electric tram,
fix up an electric lighting installation, or guide a building machine or a steam plough. He
must be, of course, much more generally intelligent than the average bricklayer, but he needs
far less specialised skill. To repair machinery requires, of course, a special sort of knowledge,
but not a special sort of training.

In no way is this disappearance of specialisation more marked than in military and naval affairs.
In the great days of Greece and Rome war was a special calling, requiring a special type of
man. In the Middle Ages war had an elaborate technique, in which the footman played the part
of an unskilled labourer, and even within a period of a hundred years it took a long period
of training and discipline before the common discursive man could be converted into the steady
soldier. Even to-day traditions work powerfully, through extravagance of uniform, and through
survivals of that mechanical discipline that was so important in the days of hand-to-hand fighting,
to keep the soldier something other than a man. For all the lessons of the Boer war we are
still inclined to believe that the soldier has to be something severely parallel, carrying
a rifle he fires under orders, obedient to the pitch of absolute abnegation of his private
intelligence. We still think that our officers have, like some very elaborate and noble sort
of performing animal, to be "trained." They learn to fight with certain specified "arms" and
weapons, instead of developing intelligence enough to use anything that comes to hand.

But, indeed, when a really great European war does come and lets loose motor-cars, bicycles,
wireless telegraphy, aeroplanes, new projectiles of every size and shape, and a multitude of
ingenious persons upon the preposterously vast hosts of conscription, the military caste will
be missing within three months of the beginning, and the inventive, versatile, intelligent
man will have come to his own.

And what is true of a military caste is equally true of a special governing class such as our
public schools maintain.

The misunderstanding that has given rise to this proposition that this is an age of specialisation,
and through that no end of mischief in misdirected technical education and the like, is essentially
a confusion between specialisation and the division of labour. No doubt this is an age when
everything makes for wider and wider co-operations. Work that was once done by one highly specialised
man--the making of a watch, for example--is now turned out wholesale by elaborate machinery,
or effected in great quantities by the contributed efforts of a number of people. Each of these
people may bring a highly developed intelligence to bear for a time upon the special problem
in hand, but that is quite a different thing from specialising to do that thing.

This is typically shown in scientific research. The problem or the parts of problems upon which
the inquiry of an individual man is concentrated are often much narrower than the problems
that occupied Faraday or Dalton, and yet the hard and fast lines that once divided physicist
from chemist, or botanist from pathologist have long since gone. Professor Farmer, the botanist,
investigates cancer, and the ordinary educated man, familiar though he is with their general
results, would find it hard to say which were the chemists and which the physicists among Professors
Dewar and Ramsey Lord Rayleigh and Curie. The classification of sciences that was such a solemn
business to our grandfathers is now merely a mental obstruction.

It is interesting to glance for a moment at the possible source of this mischievous confusion
between specialisation and the division of labour. I have already glanced at the possibility
of a diabolical world manufacturing gramophone records for our bishops and statesmen and suchlike
leaders of thought, but if we dismiss that as a merely elegant trope, I must confess I think
it is the influence of Herbert Spencer. His philosophy is pervaded by an insistence which is,
I think, entirely without justification, that the universe, and every sort of thing in it,
moves from the simple and homogeneous to the complex and heterogeneous. An unwary man obsessed
with that idea would be very likely to assume without consideration that men were less specialised
in a barbaric state of society than they are to-day. I think I have given reasons for believing
that the reverse of this is nearer the truth.

IS THERE A PEOPLE?

Of all the great personifications that have dominated the mind of man, the greatest, the most
marvellous, the most impossible and the most incredible, is surely the People, that impalpable
monster to which the world has consecrated its political institutions for the last hundred years.

It is doubtful now whether this stupendous superstition has reached its grand climacteric,
and there can be little or no dispute that it is destined to play a prominent part in the history
of mankind for many years to come. There is a practical as well as a philosophical interest,
therefore, in a note or so upon the attributes of this legendary being. I write "legendary,"
but thereby I display myself a sceptic. To a very large number of people the People is one
of the profoundest realities in life. They believe--what exactly do they believe about the people?

When they speak of the People they certainly mean something more than the whole mass of individuals
in a country lumped together. That is the people, a mere varied aggregation of persons, moved
by no common motive, a complex interplay. The People, as the believer understands the word,
is something more mysterious than that. The People is something that overrides and is added
to the individualities that make up the people. It is, as it were, itself an individuality
of a higher order--as indeed, its capital "P" displays. It has a will of its own which is not
the will of any particular person in it, it has a power of purpose and judgment of a superior
sort. It is supposed to be the underlying reality of all national life and the real seat of
all public religious emotion. Unfortunately, it lacks powers of expression, and so there is
need of rulers and interpreters. If they express it well in law and fact, in book and song,
they prosper under its mysterious approval; if they do not, it revolts or forgets or does something
else of an equally annihilatory sort. That, briefly, is the idea of the People. My modest thesis
is that there exists nothing of the sort, that the world of men is entirely made up of the
individuals that compose it, and that the collective action is just the algebraic sum of all
individual actions.

How far the opposite opinion may go, one must talk to intelligent Americans or read the contemporary
literature of the first French Revolution to understand. I find, for example, so typical a
young American as the late Frank Norris roundly asserting that it is the People to whom we
are to ascribe the triumphant emergence of the name of Shakespeare from the ruck of his contemporaries
and the passage in which this assertion is made is fairly representative of the general expression
of this sort of mysticism. "One must keep one's faith in the People--the Plain People, the
Burgesses, the Grocers--else of all men the artists are most miserable and their teachings
vain. Let us admit and concede that this belief is ever so sorely tried at times.... But in
the end, and at last, they will listen to the true note and discriminate between it and the
false." And then he resorts to italics to emphasise: "In the last analysis the People are always
right."

And it was that still more typical American, Abraham Lincoln, who declared his equal confidence
in the political wisdom of this collective being. The thing is in the very opening words of
the American Constitution, and Theodore Parker calls it "the American idea" and pitches a still
higher note: "A government of all the people, by all the people, for all the people; a government
of all the principles of eternal justice, the unchanging law of God."

It is unavoidable that a collective wisdom distinct from any individual and personal one is
intended in these passages. Mr. Norris, for example, never figured to himself a great wave
of critical discrimination sweeping through the ranks of the various provision trades and a
multitude of simple, plain burgesses preferring Shakespeare and setting Marlowe aside. Such
a particularisation of his statement would have at once reduced it to absurdity. Nor does any
American see the people particularised in that way. They believe in the People one and indivisible,
a simple, mystical being, which pervades and dominates the community and determines its final
collective consequences.

Now upon the belief that there is a People rests a large part of the political organisation
of the modern world. The idea was one of the chief fruits of the speculations of the eighteenth
century, and the American Constitution is its most perfect expression. One turns, therefore,
inevitably to the American instance, not because it is the only one, but because there is the
thing in its least complicated form. We have there an almost exactly logical realisation of
this belief. The whole political machine is designed and expressed to register the People's
will, literature is entirely rewarded and controlled by the effectual suffrages of the bookseller's
counter, science (until private endowment intervened) was in the hands of the State Legislatures,
and religion the concern of the voluntary congregations.

On the assumption that there is a People there could be no better state of affairs. You and
I and everyone, except for a vote or a book, or a service now and then, can go about our business,
you to your grocery and I to mine, and the direction of the general interests rests safe in
the People's hands. Now that is by no means a caricature of the attitude of mind of many educated
Americans. You find they have little or nothing to do with actual politics, and are inclined
to regard the professional politician with a certain contempt; they trouble their heads hardly
at all about literature, and they contemplate the general religious condition of the population
with absolute unconcern. It is not that they are unpatriotic or morally trivial that they stand
thus disengaged; it is that they have a fatalistic belief in this higher power. Whatever troubles
and abuses may arise they have an absolute faith that "in the last analysis" the People will
get it right.

And now suppose that I am right and that there is no People! Suppose that the crowd is really
no more than a crowd, a vast miscellaneous confusion of persons which grows more miscellaneous
every year. Suppose this conception of the People arose out of a sentimental idealisation,
Rousseau fashion, of the ancient homogeneous peasant class--a class that is rapidly being swept
out of existence by modern industrial developments--and that whatever slender basis of fact
it had in the past is now altogether gone. What consequences may be expected?

It does not follow that because the object of your reverence is a dead word you will get no
oracles from the shrine. If the sacred People remains impassive, inarticulate, non-existent,
there are always the keepers of the shrine who will oblige. Professional politicians, venal
and violent men, will take over the derelict political control, people who live by the book
trade will alone have a care for letters, research and learning will be subordinated to political
expediency, and a great development of noisily competitive religious enterprises will take
the place of any common religious formula. There will commence a secular decline in the quality
of public thought, emotion and activity. There will be no arrest or remedy for this state of
affairs so long as that superstitious faith in the People as inevitably right "in the last
analysis" remains. And if my supposition is correct, it should be possible to find in the United
States, where faith in the people is indisputably dominant, some such evidence of the error
of this faith. Is there?

I write as one that listens from afar. But there come reports of legislative and administrative
corruption, of organised public blackmail, that do seem to carry out my thesis. One thinks
of Edgar Allan Poe, who dreamt of founding a distinctive American literature, drugged and killed
almost as it were symbolically, amid electioneering and nearly lied out of all posthumous respect
by that scoundrel Griswold; one thinks of State Universities that are no more than mints for
bogus degrees; one thinks of "Science" Christianity and Zion City. These things are quite insufficient
for a Q.E.D., but I submit they favour my proposition.

Suppose there is no People at all, but only enormous, differentiating millions of men. All
sorts of widely accepted generalisations will collapse if that foundation is withdrawn. I submit
it as worth considering.

THE DISEASE OF PARLIAMENTS

Sec. 1

There is a growing discord between governments and governed in the world.

There has always been discord between governments and governed since States began; government
has always been to some extent imposed, and obedience to some extent reluctant. We have come
to regard it as a matter of course that under all absolutions and narrow oligarchies the community,
so soon as it became educated and as its social elaboration developed a free class with private
initiatives, so soon, indeed, as it attained to any power of thought and expression at all,
would express discontent. But we English and Americans and Western Europeans generally had
supposed that, so far as our own communities were concerned, this discontent was already anticipated
and met by representative institutions. We had supposed that, with various safeguards and elaborations,
our communities did, as a matter of fact, govern themselves. Our panacea for all discontents
was the franchise. Social and national dissatisfaction could be given at the same time a voice
and a remedy in the ballot box. Our liberal intelligences could and do still understand Russians
wanting votes, Indians wanting votes, women wanting votes. The history of nineteenth-century
Liberalism in the world might almost be summed up in the phrase "progressive enfranchisement."
But these are the desires of a closing phase in political history. The new discords go deeper
than that. The new situation which confronts our Liberal intelligence is the discontent of
the enfranchised, the contempt and hostility of the voters for their elected delegates and
governments.

This discontent, this resentment, this contempt even, and hostility to duly elected representatives
is no mere accident of this democratic country or that; it is an almost world-wide movement.
It is an almost universal disappointment with so-called popular government, and in many communities--in
Great Britain particularly--it is manifesting itself by an unprecedented lawlessness in political
matters, and in a strange and ominous contempt for the law. One sees it, for example, in the
refusal of large sections of the medical profession to carry out insurance legislation, in
the repudiation of Irish Home Rule by Ulster, and in the steady drift of great masses of industrial
workers towards the conception of a universal strike. The case of the discontented workers
in Great Britain and France is particularly remarkable. These people form effective voting
majorities in many constituencies; they send alleged Socialist and Labour representatives into
the legislative assembly; and, in addition, they have their trade unions with staffs of elected
officials, elected ostensibly to state their case and promote their interests. Yet nothing
is now more evident than that these officials, working-men representatives and the like, do
not speak for their supporters, and are less and less able to control them. The Syndicalist
movement, sabotage in France, and Larkinism in Great Britain, are, from the point of view of
social stability, the most sinister demonstrations of the gathering anger of the labouring
classes with representative institutions. These movements are not revolutionary movements,
not movements for reconstruction such as were the democratic Socialist movements that closed
the nineteenth century. They are angry and vindictive movements. They have behind them the
most dangerous and terrible of purely human forces, the wrath, the blind destructive wrath,
of a cheated crowd.

Now, so far as the insurrection of labour goes, American conditions differ from European, and
the process of disillusionment will probably follow a different course. American labour is
very largely immigrant labour still separated by barriers of language and tradition from the
established thought of the nation. It will be long before labour in America speaks with the
massed effectiveness of labour in France and England, where master and man are racially identical,
and where there is no variety of "Dagoes" to break up the revolt. But in other directions the
American disbelief in and impatience with "elected persons" is and has been far profounder
than it is in Europe. The abstinence of men of property and position from overt politics, and
the contempt that banishes political discussion from polite society, are among the first surprises
of the visiting European to America, and now that, under an organised pressure of conscience,
college-trained men and men of wealth are abandoning this strike of the educated and returning
to political life, it is, one notes, with a prevailing disposition to correct democracy by
personality, and to place affairs in the hands of autocratic mayors and presidents rather than
to carry out democratic methods to the logical end. At times America seems hot for a Caesar.
If no Caesar is established, then it will be the good fortune of the Republic rather than its
democratic virtue which will have saved it.

And directly one comes to look into the quality and composition of the elected governing body
of any modern democratic State, one begins to see the reason and nature of its widening estrangement
from the community it represents. In no sense are these bodies really representative of the
thought and purpose of the nation; the conception of its science, the fresh initiatives of
its philosophy and literature, the forces that make the future through invention and experiment,
exploration and trial and industrial development have no voice, or only an accidental and feeble
voice, there. The typical elected person is a smart rather than substantial lawyer, full of
cheap catchwords and elaborate tricks of procedure and electioneering, professing to serve
the interests of the locality which is his constituency, but actually bound hand and foot to
the specialised political association, his party, which imposed him upon that constituency.
Arrived at the legislature, his next ambition is office, and to secure and retain office he
engages in elaborate manoeuvres against the opposite party, upon issues which his limited and
specialised intelligence indicates as electorally effective. But being limited and specialised,
he is apt to drift completely out of touch with the interests and feelings of large masses
of people in the community. In Great Britain, the United States and France alike there is a
constant tendency on the part of the legislative body to drift into unreality, and to bore
the country with the disputes that are designed to thrill it. In Great Britain, for example,
at the present time the two political parties are both profoundly unpopular with the general
intelligence, which is sincerely anxious, if only it could find a way, to get rid of both of
them. Irish Home Rule--an issue as dead as mutton, is opposed to Tariff Reform, which has never
been alive. Much as the majority of people detest the preposterously clumsy attempts to amputate
Ireland from the rule of the British Parliament which have been going on since the breakdown
of Mr. Gladstone's political intelligence, their dread of foolish and scoundrelly fiscal adventurers
is sufficiently strong to retain the Liberals in office. The recent exposures of the profound
financial rottenness of the Liberal party have deepened the public resolve to permit no such
enlarged possibilities of corruption as Tariff Reform would afford their at least equally dubitable
opponents. And meanwhile, beneath those ridiculous alternatives, those sham issues, the real
and very urgent affairs of the nation, the vast gathering discontent of the workers throughout
the Empire, the racial conflicts in India and South Africa which will, if they are not arrested,
end in our severance from India, the insane waste of national resources, the control of disease,
the frightful need of some cessation of armament, drift neglected....

Now do these things indicate the ultimate failure and downfall of representative government?
Was this idea which inspired so much of the finest and most generous thought of the eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries a wrong idea, and must we go back to Caesarism or oligarchy or plutocracy
or a theocracy, to Rome or Venice or Carthage, to the strong man or the ruler by divine right,
for the political organisation of the future?

My answer to that question would be an emphatic No. My answer would be that the idea of representative
government is the only possible idea for the government of a civilised community. But I would
add that so far representative government has not had even the beginnings of a fair trial.
So far we have not had representative government, but only a devastating caricature.

