Pope Night--the anniversary of the discovery of the Papal incendiary Guy Fawkes, booted and
spurred, ready to touch fire to his powder-train under the Parliament House--was celebrated
by the early settlers of New England, and doubtless afforded a good deal of relief to the younger
plants of grace in the Puritan vineyard.  In those solemn old days, the recurrence of the powder-plot
anniversary, with its processions, hideous images of the Pope and Guy Fawkes, its liberal potations
of strong waters, and its blazing bonfires reddening the wild November hills, must have been
looked forward to with no slight degree of pleasure.  For one night, at least, the cramped
and smothered fun and mischief of the younger generation were permitted to revel in the wild
extravagance of a Roman saturnalia or the Christmas holidays of a slave plantation. Bigotry--frowning
upon the May-pole, with its flower wreaths and sportive revellers, and counting the steps of
the dancers as so many steps towards perdition--recognized in the grim farce of Guy Fawkes's
anniversary something of its own lineaments, smiled complacently upon the riotous young actors,
and opened its close purse to furnish tar-barrels to roast the Pope, and strong water to moisten
the throats of his noisy judges and executioners.

Up to the time of the Revolution the powder plot was duly commemorated throughout New England.
At that period the celebration of it was discountenanced, and in many places prohibited, on
the ground that it was insulting to our Catholic allies from France.  In Coffin's History of
Newbury it is stated that, in 1774, the town authorities of Newburyport ordered "that no effigies
be carried about or exhibited only in the daytime."  The last public celebration in that town
was in the following year. I wait on you, good Master Mayor will do as them pleases. In yonder turret
sinned Rosamond, and in yonder turret as she suffered; and there she sits, or more likely, had the
Enemy in her shape, that I have heard true men of Woodstock tell.  The stranger who chances to be travelling on the road between Newburyport and Haverhill,
on the night of the 5th of November, may well fancy that an invasion is threatened from the
sea, or that an insurrection is going on inland; for from all the high hills overlooking the
river tall fires are seen blazing redly against the cold, dark, autumnal sky, surrounded by
groups of young men and boys busily engaged in urging them with fresh fuel into intenser activity.
To feed these bonfires, everything combustible which could be begged or stolen from the neighboring
villages, farm-houses, and fences is put in requisition.  Old tar-tubs, purloined from the
shipbuilders of the river-side, and flour and lard barrels from the village-traders, are stored
away for days, and perhaps weeks, in the woods or in the rain- gullies of the hills, in preparation
for Pope Night.  From the earliest settlement of the towns of Amesbury and Salisbury, the night
of the powder plot has been thus celebrated, with unbroken regularity, down to the present
time.  The event which it once commemorated is probably now unknown to most of the juvenile
actors.  The symbol lives on from generation to generation after the significance is lost;
and we have seen the children of our Catholic neighbors as busy as their Protestant playmates
in collecting, "by hook or by crook," the materials for Pope- Night bonfires.  We remember,
on one occasion, walking out with a gifted and learned Catholic friend to witness the fine
effect of the illumination on the hills, and his hearty appreciation of its picturesque and
wild beauty,--the busy groups in the strong relief of the fires, and the play and corruscation
of the changeful lights on the bare, brown hills, naked trees, and autumn clouds.

In addition to the bonfires on the hills, there was formerly a procession in the streets, bearing
grotesque images of the Pope, his cardinals and friars; and behind them Satan himself, a monster
with huge ox-horns on his head, and a long tail, brandishing his pitchfork and goading them
onward.  The Pope was generally furnished with a movable head, which could be turned round,
thrown back, or made to bow, like that of a china- ware mandarin.  An aged inhabitant of the
neighborhood has furnished us with some fragments of the songs sung on such occasions, probably
the same which our British ancestors trolled forth around their bonfires two centuries ago:--

                    "The fifth of November,
                    As you well remember,
                    Was gunpowder treason and plot;
                    And where is the reason
                    That gunpowder treason
                    Should ever be forgot?"

          "When James the First the sceptre swayed,
          This hellish powder plot was laid;
          They placed the powder down below,
          All for Old England's overthrow.
          Lucky the man, and happy the day,
          That caught Guy Fawkes in the middle of his play!"

          "Hark! our bell goes jink, jink, jink;
          Pray, madam, pray, sir, give us something to drink;
          Pray, madam, pray, sir, if you'll something give,
          We'll burn the dog, and not let him live.
          We'll burn the dog without his head,
          And then you'll say the dog is dead."

               "Look here! from Rome The Pope has come,
               That fiery serpent dire;
               Here's the Pope that we have got,
               The old promoter of the plot;
               We'll stick a pitchfork in his back,
               And throw him in the fire!"

There is a slight savor of a Smithfield roasting about these lines, such as regaled the senses
of the Virgin Queen or Bloody Mary, which entirely reconciles us to their disuse at the present
time.

It should be the fervent prayer of all good men that the evil spirit of religious hatred and
intolerance, which on the one hand prompted the gunpowder plot, and which on the other has
ever since made it the occasion of reproach and persecution of an entire sect of professing
Christians, may be no longer perpetuated.  In the matter of exclusiveness and intolerance,
none of the older sects can safely reproach each other; and it becomes all to hope and labor
for the coming of that day when the hymns of Cowper and the Confessions of Augustine, the humane
philosophy of Channing and the devout meditations of Thomas a Kempis, the simple essays of
Woolman and the glowing periods of Bossuet, shall be regarded as the offspring of one spirit
and one faith,--lights of a common altar, and precious stones in the temple of the one universal
Church.

THE BOY CAPTIVES.

AN INCIDENT OF THE INDIAN WAR OF 1695.

