Then ask the number arising from the addition of the last number thought of, and if there were
two numbers, subtract 5 from it; if there were three, 55; if there were four, 555; and so on;
for the remainder will be composed of figures, of which the first on the left will be the first
number thought of, the next second, and so on.

Suppose the numbers thought of be 3, 4, 6; by adding 1 to 6, the double of the first, we shall
have 7, which, being multiplied by 5, will give 35; if 4, the second number thought of, be
then added, we shall have 39, which doubled gives 78; and, if we add 1, and multiply 79, the
sum, by 5, the result will be 395. In the last place, if we add 6, the number thought of, the
sum will be 401; and if 55 be deducted from it, we shall have, for remainder, 346, the figures
of which, 3, 4, 6, indicate in order the three numbers though of.

GOLD AND SILVER GAME

One of the party having in one hand a piece of gold and in the other a piece of silver, you
may tell in which hand he has the gold and in which the silver, by the following method: Some
value, represented by an even number, such as 8, must be assigned to the gold, and a value
represented by an odd number, such as 3, must be assigned to the silver; after which, desire
the person to multiply the number in the right hand by any even number whatever, such as 2;
and that in the left hand by an odd number, as 3; then bid him add together the two products,
and if the whole sum be odd, the gold will be in the right hand and the silver in the left;
if the sum be even, the contrary will be the case.

To conceal the trick better, it will be sufficient to ask whether the sum of the two products
can be halved without a remainder; for in that case the total will be even, and in the contrary
case odd.

It may be readily seen, that the pieces, instead of being in the two hands of the same person,
may be supposed to be in the hands of two persons, one of whom has the even number, or piece
of gold, and the other the odd number, or piece of silver. The same operations may then be
performed in regard to these two persons, as are performed in regard to the two hands of the
same person, calling the one privately the right and the other the left.

THE NUMBER BAG

The plan is to let a person select several numbers out of a bag, and to tell him the number
which shall exactly divide the sum of those he has chosen; provide a small bag, divided into
two parts, into one of which put several tickets, numbered, 6, 9, 15, 36, 63, 120, 213, 309,
etc.; and in the other part put as many other tickets marked number 3 only. Draw a handful
of tickets from the first part, and, after showing them to the company, put them into the bag
again, and, having opened it a second time, desire any one to take out as many tickets as he
thinks proper; when he has done that, you open privately the other part of the bag, and tell
him to take out of it one ticket only. You may safely pronounce that the ticket shall contain
the number by which the amount of the other numbers is divisible; for, as each of these numbers
can be multiplied by 3, their sum total must, evidently, be divisible by that number. An ingenious
mind may easily diversify this exercise, by marking the tickets in one part of the bag with
any numbers that are divisible by 9 only, the properties of both 9 and 3 being the same; and
it should never be exhibited to the same company twice without being varied.

THE MYSTICAL NUMBER NINE

The discovery of remarkable properties of the number 9 was accidentally made, more than forty
years since, though, we believe, it is not generally known.

The component figures of the product made by the multiplication of every digit into the number
9, when added together, make Nine.

The order of these component figures is reversed after the said number has been multiplied by 5.

The component figures of the amount of the multipliers (viz. 45), when added together, make Nine.

The amount of the several products or multiples of 9 (viz. 405), when divided by 9, gives far
a quotient, 45; that is, 4 plus 5 = Nine.

The amount of the first product (viz. 9), when added to the other product, whose respective
component figures make 9, is 81; which is the square of Nine.

The said number 81, when added to the above-mentioned amount of the several products, or multiples,
of 9 (viz. 405), makes 486; which, if divided by 9, gives, for a quotient, 54; that is 5 plus
4 = Nine.

It is also observable, that the number of changes that may be rung on nine bells, is 362,880;
which figures added together, make 27; that is, 2 plus 7 = Nine.

And the quotient of 362,880, divided by 9, will be 40,320; that is, 4 plus 0 plus 3 plus 2
plus 0 = Nine.

To add a figure to any given number, which shall render it divisible by Nine: Add the figures
named; and the figure which must be added to the sum produced, in order to render it divisible
by 9, is the one required. Thus

Suppose the given number to be 7521: Add these together, and 15 will be produced; now 15 requires
3 to render it divisible by 9; and that number 3, being added to 7521, causes the same divisibility;
7521 plus 3 gives 7524, and divided by 9, gives 836. This exercise may be diversified by your
specifying, before the sum is named, the particular place where the figure shall be inserted,
to make the number divisible by 9; for it is exactly the same thing whether the figure be put
at the head of the number, or between any two of its digits.

THE MAGIC HUNDRED.

Two persons agree to take, alternately, numbers less than a given number, for example, 11 and
to add them together till one of them has reached a certain sum, such as 100. By what means
can one of them infallibly attain to that number before the other? The whole secret in this
consists in immediately making choice of the numbers, 1, 12, 23, 34, and so on, or of a series
which continually increases by 11, up to 100. Let us suppose, that the first person, who knows
the game, makes choice of 1; it is evident that his adversary, as he must count less than 11,
can, at most, reach 11 by adding 10 to it. Everybody wanted to be told all about it, so I was
compelled to the information forms in the word of lectures, which were repeated in the course
of many years of different parts of the country where aid for philanthropic
purposes was required. By following this method,
he will infallibly attain to 89; and it will then be impossible for the second to prevent him
from getting first to 100; for whatever number the second takes, he can attain only to 99;
after which the first may say--"and 1 makes 100." If the second take 1 after 89, it would make
90, and his adversary would finish by saying--"and 10 makes 100." Between two persons who are
equally acquainted with the game, he who begins must necessarily win.

TO GUESS THE MISSING FIGURE

To tell the figure a person has struck out of the sum of two given numbers: Arbitrarily command
those numbers only, that are divisible by 9; such, for instance, as 36, 63, 81, 117, 126, 162,
261, 360, 315, and 432. Then let a person choose any two of these numbers; and, after adding
them together in his mind, strike out from the sum any one of the figures he pleases. After
he has so done, desire him to tell you the sum of the remaining figures; and it follows, that
the number which you are obliged to add to this amount, in order to make it 9 or 18, is the
one he struck out. Thus:--Suppose he chooses the numbers 162 and 261, making altogether 423,
and that he strike out the center figure; the two other figures will, added together, make
7, which, to make nine, requires 2, the number struck out.

