The most ardent of Milton's admirers, and even the most eager Unitarian, must find the book
a trial; but the latter can at least claim the author of Paradise Lost as an Anti-trinitarian,
and the former may solace himself by noticing that here, as in all the rest, Milton's soul
'dwelt apart.' He emphatically denies that it was the works of 'heretics, so called,' that
directed and influenced his mind on the subject. We may notice here the interesting fact that
another great mind of that age, Sir Isaac Newton, has left evidence of his own defection from
the orthodox view; and his correspondent John Locke, whose views appear to have been even more
decided, is only less conspicuous on this point because his general services to breadth and
liberality of religious fellowship are more brilliantly striking.

Locke's Plea for Toleration is widely recognized as the deciding influence, on the literary
side, which secured the passage of the Toleration Act in 1689. Deferring for the moment further
allusion to the position created by this Act, we must at once observe the scope of one of Locke's
works which is not so popularly known. This is his Reasonableness of Christianity, which with
his rejoinders to critics makes a considerable bulk in his writings. In pursuance of the aim
to 'reduce the number of essentials' and to discover that in the Christian religion which is
available for simple people--the majority of mankind--Locke examines the historical portion
of the New Testament, and presents the result. Practically, this amounts to the verdict that
it is sufficient for the Christian to accept the Messiahship of Christ and to submit to his
rule of conduct. The orthodox critics complained that he had omitted the epistles in his summary
of doctrine; his retort is obvious: if the gospels lead to the conclusion just stated, the
epistles cannot be allowed, however weighty, to establish a contrary one. Of course, Locke
was called a 'Socinian'; but the effect of his work remained, and we should remark that if
it looked on the one hand toward the orthodox, on the other it looked toward the sceptics and
freethinkers who began at that time a long and not ineffectual criticism of the miraculous
claims of Christianity. Locke endeavoured to convince such minds that Christianity was in reality
not an irrational code of doctrines, but a truly practical scheme of life. In this endeavour
he was preceded by Richard Baxter, who had written on the 'Unreasonableness of Infidelity,'
and was followed during the eighteenth century by many who in the old Dissenting chapels were
leading the way towards an overt Unitarianism.

III. THE OLD NONCONFORMISTS

The reader must be reminded here of a few salient facts in the religious history of the seventeenth
century. All these undercurrents of heterodox thought, with but few and soon repressed public
manifestations of its presence, were obscured by the massive movement in Church and State.
During the Commonwealth the episcopal system was abolished, and a presbyterian system substituted,
though with difficulty and at best imperfectly. After the Restoration of Charles II the Act
of Uniformity re-established episcopacy in a form made of set purpose as unacceptable to the
Puritans as possible. Thereupon arose the rivalry of Conformist and Nonconformist which has
ever since existed in England. Severely repressive measures were tried, but failed to extinguish
Nonconformity; it stood irreconcilable outside the establishment. There were distinct varieties
in its ranks. The Presbyterians, once largely dominant, were gradually overtaken numerically
by the Independents. Perhaps it is better to say that, in the circumstances of exclusion in
which both were situated, and the impossibility of maintaining a Presbyterian order and organization,
the dividing line between these two bodies of Nonconformists naturally faded out. There was
little, if anything, to keep them apart on the score of doctrine; and in time the Presbyterians
certainly exhibited something of the tendency to variety of opinion which had always marked
the Independents. Besides these bodies, the Baptists and Quakers stand out amid the sects comprised
in Nonconformity. In both of these there were distinct signs of Anti-trinitarianism from time
to time; as to the former, indeed, along with the earlier Baptist movements in England and
on the Continent (especially in the Netherlands) there had always gone a streak of heresy alarming
to the authorities. Among the Quakers, William Penn is specially notable in connection with
our subject. In 1668 he was imprisoned for publishing The Sandy Foundation Shaken, in which
Sabellian views were advocated. It need hardly be pointed out that among the still more eccentric
movements, if the term be allowed, heterodoxy as to the Trinity was easy to trace.

When the Toleration Act was passed the old Nonconformity became 'Dissent,' that being the term
used in the statute itself. Dissenters were now granted freedom of worship and preaching, but
only on condition that their ministers subscribed to the doctrinal articles of the Church of
England, including, of course, belief in the Trinity. Unitarians, therefore, were excluded
from the benefit of the Act, and the general views of Dissenters upon the subject are clear
from the fact that they took special care to have Unitarians ruled out from the liberty now
being achieved by themselves. Locke and other liberal men evidently regretted this limitation,
but the time was not ripe, and in fact the penal law against Unitarians was not repealed till
1813. Unluckily, too, for the Unitarians, a sharp controversy, due to their own zeal, had broken
out at the very time that the Toleration Act was shaping, and as this had other important results
we must give some attention to it.

IV. THE 'UNITARIAN TRACTS'

There are six volumes, containing under this title a large number of pamphlets and treatises,
for and against the new views, published about this period. It is the first considerable body
of Unitarian literature. Its promoter was Thomas Firmin, a disciple of John Bidle, on whose
behalf he interceded with Oliver Cromwell, though himself but a youth at the time. Firmin,
a prosperous citizen of London, counted among his friends men of the highest offices in the
Church, some of whom are said to have been affected with his type of thought. Apart from his
Unitarianism he is remarkable as an enlightened philanthropist of great breadth of sympathy.
Men of very different theological bent who were fain to seek refuge in London from persecutions
abroad were aided by funds raised by him. We should notice also that, ardent as he was in diffusing
Unitarian teachings, he had no wish at first to set up separate Unitarian chapels; his desire
was that the national Church should include thinkers like himself. We are thus pointed into
a path which for a time at least promised more for Unitarian developments than anything very
evident in the Dissenting community.

The situation is aptly illustrated by a little book of 184 pages which is included in the first
volume of the Tracts. This work is specially noteworthy as one of the first English books to
use the name 'Unitarian,' though the use is here so free and without apology or explanation
that we must suppose it had already attained a certain vogue before 1687, the date of the book.
The title is A Brief History of the Unitarians, called also Socinians. Neither author nor publisher
is named, but the former is known to have been the Rev. Stephen Nye, a clergyman, whose grandfather,
Philip Nye, was noted in his day as one of the few Independents in the Westminster Assembly.
Stephen Nye's book takes the form of four Letters, ostensibly written to an unnamed correspondent
who has asked for an account of the Unitarians, 'vulgarly called Socinians.' The opening letter
states their doctrine, after the model of Socinus--God is One Person, not Three; the Lord Christ
is the 'Messenger, Servant, and Creature of God,' also the 'Son of God, because he was begotten
on the blessed Mary by the Spirit or Power of God'; 'the Holy Ghost or Spirit, according to
them, is the Power and Inspiration of God.' (We may notice here that Bidle, otherwise agreeing
with Socinus, regarded the Holy Spirit as a living being, chief among angels.) Nye, writing
as if an impartial observer, presents the Scripture argument in support of the doctrine of
the Unitarians, 'which,' says he, 'I have so related as not to judge or rail of their persons,
because however learned and reasonable men (which is their character among their worst adversaries)
may be argued out of their errors, yet few will be swaggered or chode out of them.' He traces
the doctrine to the earliest Christian times, and shows the stages of Trinitarian growth. Incidentally
he says that Arian doctrines are openly professed in Transylvania and in some churches of the
Netherlands, and adds that 'Nazarene and Arian Churches are very numerous' in Turkish, Mahometan,
and pagan dominions where liberty of conscience is allowed. He mentions celebrated scholars
who have 'certainly been either Arians or Socinians, or great favourers of them,' such as Erasmus,
Grotius, Petavius, Episcopius, and Sandius--the last-named a learned historian who had made
a special point of collecting admissions by orthodox writers of the invalidity of all the texts
in turn usually quoted in support of the Trinity. In the subsequent chapters Nye deals seriatim
with such texts, and the book ends with a commendation from 'A Gentleman, a Person of Excellent
Learning and Worth,' to whom the publisher had sent it for remark.

Upon such levels the discussion proceeded, the skill and adroitness of the heretics contrasting
with the obvious perplexity of the orthodox, who soon fell to accusing one another of stumbling
into erroneous statements. Dons, deans, and even bishops joined in the fray, and some of them,
notably Dr. Sherlock, Master of the Temple, got into sad trouble with their brethren. Finally,
the clergy were forbidden to prolong the discussion, which indeed promised little satisfaction
to any but the heretics who enjoyed the difficulties of the orthodox champions. The traditional
formularies were there, and these must suffice. In the presence of the restrictions imposed
by the Toleration Act speculation outside the Church turned towards 'Deism'--perhaps the best
modern equivalent would be 'Natural Religion.' Speculation inside the Church had to accommodate
itself to the creeds and articles, and thus there grew up an Arianism among the clergy which
was really largely diffused and produced some important books. One of these was Dr. Samuel
Clarke's Scripture Doctrine of the Trinity (1712), a work which appears to have helped many
a clergyman to ease his conscience while reciting the authorized Trinitarian expressions, though
in substance his opinions were no less heretical than those for which men had suffered under
the law.

A contemporary case of such suffering was that of Thomas Emlyn (1663-1711), an Irish clergyman
who was sentenced at Dublin in 1703 to imprisonment which lasted for two years. This gross
treatment, excited keen criticism at home and in the American colonies, whither our attention
must soon turn. Emlyn was the first minister to call himself a 'Unitarian,' but under the pressure
of the times, and in accordance with the spirit of Clarke and the other Arianizing clergy,
he found it expedient to declare himself a 'true Scriptural Trinitarian.'

V. THE OLD DISSENT

It is estimated that about a thousand Meeting Houses were erected by Dissenters in the twenty
years following the passing of the Toleration Act. After the death of Queen Anne others were
built, but in no great numbers. The prevailing impression of the state of religion in England
during the first half of the eighteenth century is a gloomy one. Formalism and apparently an
insincere repetition of the doctrinal phrases imposed by the law was but too evident in the
State Church. Dissent had its bright features, but these grew dim as years went on. It must
be admitted that the odds were heavy against that party. Without conforming no one could be
appointed to public office, and the 'occasional conformity' of sharing the communion service
at an established church now and again in order to qualify was at length forbidden by the Act
of 1711. The sons of the Dissenting gentry and manufacturers were excluded from the universities,
and though a shift was made by 'Academies' here and there, the excellence of the education
they might impart could not compensate for the deprivation of the social advantages of Oxford
and Cambridge. By an Act of 1714 schools for more than a rudimentary education were forbidden
to be taught by Dissenters. Thus, we are not surprised to hear, considerable defection went
on, and early in the century congregations began to dwindle. As it proceeded some became very
small indeed, and many died out altogether.

The trusts upon which the Meeting Houses were founded were frequently free from any close definitions
of the doctrines supposed to be held by the congregation. Much discussion arose in later years
as to the purport of this freedom; perhaps there was some expectation of changing opinion in
the future, but more probably the doctrinal status was taken for granted. It must be remembered
that no Dissenting preacher could legally officiate without previously 'subscribing' to the
doctrinal articles of the Church of England or their equivalents in the Westminster Assembly's
catechisms. Thus, while the Dissenter might alter the terms of his liturgy to a degree not
allowed to the Churchman (though the latter would in those lax days go pretty far sometimes),
he was still supposed to be 'sound' on the fundamental creeds. It would appear to be a fortunate
accident for Unitarian development in some of these old Dissenting congregations that, either
the prevalent understanding or a hope for speedy inclusion in the national Church, or a prevision
on the part of liberal-minded men here and there, left so largely undefined the basis of religious
union among them, as congregations.

However that may be, it is certain that a degree of reluctance to 'subscribe' began to show
itself, and this, we surmise, was often due to other reasons than liberality pure and simple.
That there were broad-minded men who, while conscientiously orthodox themselves, refused to
exclude unorthodox ministers from their fellowship is shown by a notable instance among the
Baptists. Before 1700, Matthew Caffyn, one of their body, being charged with Anti-trinitarian
opinions, was still retained in membership by vote of the General Baptist Assembly, this being
the first instance of any organization's formal acceptance of latitude respecting the Trinity.
In Ireland, deterred no doubt by the harsh punishment of Emlyn, there was natural hesitation
in avowing such latitude; but in 1721 a division began in Ulster between those who insisted
on 'subscribing' the creed anew and those who opposed; and a few years later the 'non-subscribers,'
being excluded from the Synod, formed a new Presbytery which in course of time became distinctly
Unitarian. The historic event for English 'non-subscription' was a declaration made at a meeting
of Dissenting ministers, Independents, Baptists, and Presbyterians, held in 1719 at Salter's
Hall, London. Certain Exeter ministers had become unsound in doctrine, and refused to renew
their subscription to the creeds and articles, claiming to believe 'the Scripture'--a well-understood
expression in those days. The question of their exclusion was referred to London, and there
again the point of renewed 'subscription' was raised before the vote on the Exeter case was
taken. By seventy-three to sixty-nine it was decided that the declaration of faith should be
confined to 'the words of Scripture'--as Sir Joseph Jekyll put it, 'the Bible carried it by
four.' This was widely recognized as setting open the door for liberty in matters of religion,
and the interesting fact should be recorded that Independents and Presbyterians were found
on both sides.

Here, then, we may for the present leave the English development; it was slow, tentative, for
the most part obscure. In one direction and another the movement of thought might be perceived,
in the Church, among the 'Congregationals,' or Baptists, or Presbyterians, as the case might
be. It was only long after that much preponderance of heretical opinion was distinctive of
Presbyterian congregations. In the Academies men like Philip Doddridge (1702-51), the hymn
writer, were affording room at least for ample discussion among the students, and moderate
as his own opinions were he is credited with having made so-called 'orthodoxy' a byword. The
Independents, Caleb Fleming and Nathaniel Lardner (1684-1768), led the way to 'Humanitarian'
views, the latter being a learned writer of much influence. It is said that another great hymn
writer, Isaac Watts, finally shared the Humanitarian view. On the whole, with some notable
exceptions, the Dissenting preachers seem to have been decorously dull, and uninspiringly ethical.
Without the zeal of the 'enthusiast,' whom they severely scanned from afar, and seeking in
all things to prove that Christianity was so 'reasonable' as to be identical with 'rational
philosophy,' it is little wonder that when the popular mind began to be stirred by a religious
'Revival' they were not its apostles, but mostly its critics. This is precisely the point where
we may fitly turn to consider the growth of Unitarianism in New England.

NEW ENGLAND

I. BEFORE THE 'GREAT AWAKENING'

As in the Old Country, so in the colonies of North America, a great evangelical revival took
place towards the middle of the eighteenth century. John Wesley the Arminian, and George Whitefield
the Calvinist, were the great apostles of this movement, and the latter especially was very
influential in America. The English revivalists were not alone, however; among the most powerful
leaders in the colonies was Jonathan Edwards, whose name ranks very high in the records of
religious philosophy in the States. Despite preliminary obstacles this preacher of the most
stern and unflinching determinism produced a quite extraordinary effect at last. As usually
happens, his dogmas were more easily repeated by others than his reasoning; violent excitement
ran through the colonies, and it was this that gave a decisive turn to the liberalism which
ultimately developed into a very memorable phase of Unitarianism. The preceding steps may be
briefly indicated.

A familiar epigram preserves the acid truth that the Puritan emigrants who left England in
the seventeenth century went to North America in order to worship God in their own way, and
to compel everyone else to do the same. Religious liberty was certainly not understood by them
as it is understood to-day. The sufferings of the Baptists and Quakers, for example, make a
sad chapter of New England history. About the middle of the century, Roger Williams (1599-1683),
having ventilated opinions contrary to the general Calvinism, was driven out of Salem, where
he had ministered to a grateful church. His pleas for a real religious freedom were in vain,
and he was forced to wander from the colonial settlements and find a precarious home among
the Indians. After much privation, he succeeded in establishing a new colony at Rhode Island,
where a more liberal atmosphere prevailed.

It does not appear that Williams had much influence in the general world of religious thought,
but two things at least were favourable to the modification of orthodoxy. On the one hand there
was inevitably a looser system of supervision in a new country, and the pressure of penal law
could not be exerted so effectually as in England. On the other hand the organization of worship
and teaching, though intended to be strict and complete, an intention fairly successful in
practice, was actually founded upon broad principles. Each township maintained its 'parish
church,' but this, originally of a Low Church or 'Presbyterian' type, was usually accommodated
as years went on to a Congregational model. These churches were looked upon as centres of religious
culture for the respective communities by whose regular contributions they were supported and
endowed. The 'covenants' by which the members bound themselves were often expressed in terms
quite simple, and even touching; the colonists were in the main faithful to the parting injunction
of the famous Pastor John Robinson, who sped the 'Pilgrim Fathers' on their way with the assurance
that the Lord had 'more light and truth to break forth from His Holy Word.' Occasionally, it
is expressly declared by the covenanting members that theirs is an attitude of devout expectation
of religious growth.

As would naturally be expected, the conditions of the earlier generations in the colonies were
not in favour of a deeply studious ministry; the leaders were more frequently men of shrewd
and practical piety than profound scholars. As things became more settled, and especially after
the Toleration Act had secured a more assured state of feeling at home, the minds of men were
set at liberty in a greater degree. Locke's works were carried across the sea, and Dr. Clarke's
Arianizing writings soon followed. Apparently, the first stir of any importance was produced
by the scandal of the punishment of Thomas Emlyn, the Irish clergyman who has been previously
referred to. Emlyn's writings received a great advertisement, and although he managed, like
Clarke, to avoid further legal difficulties by publishing a statement of his adherence to a
'Scriptural Trinity,' his defection from the orthodox dogma was clear enough and his arguments
against that dogma remained. Another case which was notorious in those days was that of William
Whiston (1667-1752), the well-known translator of the works of Josephus, who was dismissed
from his professorship at Cambridge in 1710 for Arianism. A prolific writer and a shrewd debater,
Whiston played no small part in the general leavening of opinion.

But probably the most direct of the literary influences in this direction came from the pen
of Dr. John Taylor (1694-1761), one of the most able and learned of the Presbyterian divines.
His treatises on Original Sin (1740) and the Atonement (1751) dealt with subjects of the profoundest
importance in relation to the usual Trinitarian scheme of doctrine. Preferring, for his own
part, to be known by no sectarian name but to be reckoned among 'Christians only,' Taylor was
recognized far and wide as a writer extremely 'dangerous' to the ordinary type of belief. When
the American revivalists were at their height, there were many quiet and staid New England
ministers who found in Taylor a welcome ally against the extravagances which they witnessed
and deplored. The more logical the Calvinist was, the more vivid in depicting the horrors of
predestined damnation, the more vigorous these men became in denouncing such a doctrine. Perhaps
the growing sense of individual liberty and personal rights had much to do with the reaction.
A theory based upon the postulate of an absolute and unconditioned sovereignty divine did not
accord with the growing democratic temper. Preachers began to insist, and hearers to agree,
that, whatever 'salvation' is, it must be reasonable if reasonable creatures are to enjoy its
benefits. Here also, as among the English latitude-men, the conviction grew that the essentials
of a Christian belief must be few and simple and these such as plain men could understand and
discuss; and here, as among the sober Dissenters at home, men looked askance on unintelligent
outbursts of emotion.

The process of change was not very fast, and a good many who were sensible of change in their
opinions were reluctant to accept new doctrinal designations. Arians they might be, but they
preferred to be known as standing by a 'Scriptural Christianity.' For, whatever new books might
be written, the Bible remained their chief study and their support in discussion. Keen, rational
rather than mystical, yet deeply interested in moral progress and human elevation, these American
divines were much of a mind with their English brethren whose path lay in the same direction.
One of the most influential preachers was Charles Chauncey (1706-87); who for sixty years was
minister at the 'First Church,' Boston. His theology was Arian and 'Universalist' (i.e. holding
the doctrine of a final universal salvation); his Anti-Calvinism came out forcibly in his protests
against the revivalist excesses. It is recorded of him that in his youth, disgusted by noisy
fanatics, he prayed God never to make him an orator. His prayer was granted--and still he was
a power!

II. THE LIBERAL REACTION

With the rise of the new liberalism in the American colonies no name is more conspicuous than
that of Jonathan Mayhew (1721-66), whose eloquence was of a more modern type than most of his
day. He is credited with having deeply moved many who became leaders in turn, whether as ministers
or laymen. After the interruption of normal development inevitable during the War of Independence,
things moved more rapidly. The French Revolution evoked the warmest sympathy in the United
States, and its effect on religion there was largely to increase a sense of the worth of man.
'Universalism,' the final restoration of all, became a conspicuous doctrine with some. The
need for practical measures to uplift the general life here was a theme more to the mind of
others. The distinctly 'Unitarian' trend was from the first associated with this eager attention
to the higher culture. Harvard College, in the very heart of New England, rapidly developed
into a fruitful source of the newer ideas, which were embodied in the lives of 'statesmen,
merchants, physicians, lawyers, and teachers'; and thus the community, in all its more vigorous
members, became charged with a fresh conception of life and religion.

In the first decade of the nineteenth century we begin to trace publications more or less distinctly
Unitarian. One of these was the Monthly Anthology, the pioneer among American literary magazines.
One of its two editors was the Rev. William Emerson, father of Ralph Waldo Emerson. As the
divergence of ideas grew more distinct debate began to be fierce. The new magazine took a bold
line, while many liberals were still hesitating. In 1808 the trouble came to the surface. Harvard
was denounced by the orthodox party, in consequence of the appointment of a liberal minister,
Henry Ware, to a professorship involving pastoral care of the students. An orthodox rival school
was set up at Andover. A few years later a pamphlet appeared giving letters alleged to have
been sent to England by Boston ministers reporting that a certain number were Unitarians. The
name was unwelcome at the time, especially because it was associated with the 'humanitarianism'
then becoming widely taught in England. The implicated ministers, being charged with cowardly
evasion, replied with warmth; they were, in fact, mostly Arians, and thus their views really
were different from the English type. Moreover, again in contrast with the English, they expressed
strong dislike of controversy; all they asked was to be left alone to proclaim the 'Simple
Christianity' in which they believed.

The upshot showed, however, that controversy was not to be avoided, and during twenty years
from 1815 onwards it raged more or less severely. An epoch in this long and regrettable warfare
was marked by a sermon preached at Baltimore in 1819. The preacher was one of the most famous
men on the Unitarian roll, William Ellery Channing (1780-1842). Already eminent, he continued
to hold a position unique in the religious life of New England; his saintly character and his
noble if simple eloquence made him a leader in spite of himself. For a long time he had maintained
a mediating position--all through his life he resolutely disclaimed sectarianism; but in 1819,
after years of discussion, it was obvious that, for good or evil, the old dogma and the new
spirit lay far apart. From that date liberals and conservatives in the old Congregational system
of New England were divided, and 'Unitarian Christianity,' which was the subject of Channing's
discourse, was a recognized type in the land. In 1825 the American Unitarian Association was
founded. It was but a struggling society at first, not for lack of sympathy with its principle,
but because many Unitarians, like Channing, so strongly disliked the notion of forming a new
sect that they took little interest in methods of propagandism common to most religious bodies.

ENGLISH UNITARIANISM RECOGNIZED BY LAW

By a mere coincidence the British and Foreign Unitarian Association was founded almost on the
same day in 1825 as the American Unitarian Association. This step evidently implies a great
change in Unitarian affairs since the times of that early Dissent towards which attention has
been previously directed. We must now endeavour to trace the change in detail.

It will be remembered that tendencies to Anti-trinitarian thought--using that term to cover
all the varieties of heretical opinion on the subject--were manifested both within the established
Church and without. As regards the latter phase, the evidence is clear that, whatever the doctrinal
'subscription' was worth which Dissenting preachers had to make, there was a decided lapse
from the orthodox standard on the part of a considerable number. This lapse, however, was for
the most part left obscure while the pulpits resounded with 'plain, moral discourses.' Now
and again, one bolder than the rest ventured to discuss controverted points of doctrine. Such
a man was Joseph Priestley (1733-1804), whose career is interesting as an illustration of the
growth of opinion, and especially important in regard to the denominational advance of Unitarianism.
He began life as a Calvinistic Independent, and became Arminian, Arian, and Humanitarian in
turn. His devotion to science is well known, and he ranks with Lavoisier as an original discoverer
of oxygen. He was an indefatigable student, a voluminous writer, a ready controversialist;
and though his speaking was marred by imperfect utterance he attained to considerable influence
in public address. No Unitarian leader hitherto has displayed more activity, and few, if any,
have possessed greater controversial ability than he. His opinions, indeed, were in some respects
peculiar to himself; he called himself a Socinian, but it was with a difference, and no Unitarian
to-day would endorse some of his main positions. But his work for the cause was invaluable,
and his personal character is held in the highest esteem. Originally he would have preferred
that the Unitarians should remain as a 'liberal leaven' in the churches; eventually he became
the chief organizer of Unitarian worship and propaganda.

The first 'Unitarian Church,' however, was due to a clergyman, Theophilus Lindsey (1723-1808).
After long and arduous efforts to secure relaxation from the doctrinal subscription imposed
on the clergy, Lindsey resigned his living at Catterick, in 1773, facing poverty and hardship
with a courage that elicited warm commendations, though few were found to imitate the example.
In spite of the terrors of the law, now becoming a dead letter, he opened a Unitarian chapel
in Essex Street, London, in 1774. The service was on the episcopal model, but with a liturgy
adapted to 'the worship of the Father only.' This feature has been claimed to be the distinctive
characteristic of modern Unitarianism. It will be remembered that Socinus inculcated a sort
of subordinate worship of Christ, and the Arians of course held to the same practice, Humanitarianism,
the view that Jesus Christ was truly a man and in no sense a deity, obviously made it impossible
to offer him the adoration due to God alone. This view had been slowly spreading since the
days of Lardner; Priestley, Lindsey, and the active men of the party generally shared it. There
were exceptions still, however. Dr. Richard Price (1723-91), a London Presbyterian divine of
great eminence, remembered as one of the founders of actuarial science, held by his Arianism
to the last; this did not prevent him from lending a hand in the organization of the Unitarian
forces, but there was for a time some difficulty on the subject. The more ardent professors
of the new doctrine of 'the sole worship of the Father' were for excluding the Arians from
fellowship, and one of the societies then formed actually adhered to a rather offensive formula
on the subject till about 1830.

A considerable number of liberal Churchmen of the laity, including some of rank, supported
Lindsey's movement. An indication of changing moods is given in the fact that in 1770 an Act
was passed permitting the Dissenting ministers to preach provided that they made a declaration
of belief in the Scriptures as containing the revealed will of God. This was considered by
many a welcome relief from the requirement of the Toleration Act that the minister must subscribe
to the doctrinal articles of the established Church, and it was certainly a much less definite
test. Priestley, for his part, however, regretted the change; the old subscription was in reality
ceasing to be enforced, and he was afraid lest persecuting vigilance would set in again. As
a matter of fact, the Act of 1779, long obsolete, has never been repealed, but very few people
are aware of its existence. Priestley's many controversies tended to excite a good deal of
interest, some of it more than unfriendly, in the new movement. In 1791, when a party of Unitarians
dined at Birmingham in celebration of the French Revolution, serious riots broke out, and Priestley,
who was then minister of the New Meeting there, was made a principal victim though he was not
one of the diners. His house and library were burned, and he barely escaped the violence of
the mob. Other residences were also destroyed, and the Old and New Meetings were burnt down.
Ultimately, in 1794, Priestley sought asylum in America from the ill-will that pursued him
even in London. Bishop Horsley, one of his sturdiest opponents in controversy, said, 'the patriarch
of the sect is fled.'

It was earlier in the same year that the first organized Unitarian propaganda took shape in
a Unitarian Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge. District unions were soon formed, and
in 1806 a Unitarian Fund was raised by means of which the first itinerant missionary of the
body, Richard Wright (1764-1836), was sent literally from end to end of Great Britain. In 1813,
Unitarians were set free from legal penalties by the repeal, so far as they were concerned,
of the exceptive clauses of the Toleration Act, this relief coming twenty years after Charles
James Fox had tried to secure it for them. The member who was successful was Mr. William Smith,
who sat for Norwich, and whose granddaughter was Florence Nightingale. In 1819 an Association
was founded to protect and extend the Civil Rights of Unitarians. It was by combining the three
societies--the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, the Fund, and Civil Rights Society,
that the British and Foreign Unitarian Association was formed, as has been said, in 1825.

In order to understand fairly the scope and spirit of that earlier Unitarian period, thus at
last organized in full legal recognition, though still suffering from the prejudice inevitably
created by more than a century of legal condemnation, a few salient points should be kept in
view. First, the heterogeneous elements in the 'body,' if it could be called such, were a source
of weakness in regard to united action. Instead of belonging, as their American brethren did,
to one ecclesiastical group, and that the dominant one, the English Unitarians included Dissenters
of different tendencies and traditions, with a few recruits from the State Church. The 'Presbyterian'
congregations, as they were not very strictly called, were the backbone of the 'body'; many
of these, however, were very weak, and in the course of a few decades some were destined to
follow those which had died out in the eighteenth century. Converts not infrequently lent new
force in the pulpit, but at the risk of substituting an eager missionary spirit for the usual
staid decorum of the old families. In these the ideals of breadth, simplicity, and moral excellence
were stronger than the desire, natural in a convert, to win the world to one's opinion.

Again, it must be borne in mind that then, as generally, there were men whose thoughts ran
ahead of those of the majority. Priestley, for example, while adhering to the idea that the
Christian revelation had been guaranteed by miracles, had abandoned belief in the Virgin birth
as early as 1784, and went so far as to maintain that Jesus was not impeccable and had certainly
entertained erroneous ideas about demoniacal possession. Probably there were very few who had
arrived at these conclusions even thirty years later; some Unitarians repudiated them at a
much later period. The miraculous element, however, was formerly accepted by all. So was the
authority of Scripture, though here again men like Priestley were ahead of the rest in bringing
to the study of the Bible the principles of historical criticism. Thomas Belsham (1750-1829),
a typical Unitarian scholar and divine at this period, was one of several who carried forward
the science of Biblical interpretation, and by the use of a vigorous and fearless intellect
anticipated views of Genesis and the Pentateuch which did not find general acceptance till
much later.

