"And what is the wymps' gift?" asked Little Wisdom.  She was quite interested now, for here
at last was something that she did not know. The Prince answered her with a peal of laughter;
and Little Wisdom began to feel decidedly odd.  First of all, she felt a curious tickling somewhere
at the back of her head, and then a widening out of the thinking lines on her forehead, and
then a twitching sensation round the corners of her mouth, and then--but it is not difficult
to guess what happened next.  It takes all the fairies in Fairyland to make a little girl wise
when she is only eleven years old; but even a stupid little Prince without an idea in his head
can teach her to laugh!

Now, when the peasant and his wife heard their daughter laughing in the cherry orchard, they
came hurrying out to see what could be the cause of such a wonderful event.  All the people
in the village came running too--men and women, boys and girls, one on the top of the other;
and they stood round in a ring and stared, while the merry little Prince and the wise little
girl in the stiff white frock laughed at nothing at all.

"What is the meaning of it all?" asked the good people.  "Is it the fairies' doing?"

"Nothing of the sort," answered the Prince, again taking off his crown and making them all
his best court bow.  "It is only because the sun shone crookedly on my christening day.  That
is why I have come to fetch Little Wisdom.  I really hope you have no objection?"

He said this so very charmingly that everybody felt it would be most impolite to object; besides,
Little Wisdom had taken the Prince's hand and seemed to have settled the question already.
As for her parents, they were overjoyed at the idea.

"After all," said her father, "the child will make some stir in the world."  His wife laughed
and cried at the same moment.

"We shall lose Little Wisdom," she said; "but, at least, she will learn to be like other children."

Prince Charming was as usual in a great hurry, for he could never endure to wait for anything
except his lessons; so he turned to the nearest cherry tree and asked it to tell him the way home.

"If you don't know the way home without being told, you are not at all the right sort of boy,"
answered the cherry tree.  Of course, as we know already, Prince Charming was the right sort
of boy; and the very next minute he marched once more into the royal palace, and by his side
tripped a sedate little girl in a stiff white frock.

"I have found Little Wisdom," he announced to his parents and the court in general, as they
sat over their afternoon tea.  "She is going to stay here and play with me for ever and ever.
Isn't it fun?"

"The boy will never be serious," sighed the King, although he looked with approval at the solemn
face of the little girl in the stiff white frock.

"I will teach him to be serious," said Little Wisdom, "because he has already taught me how
to laugh."

But she never did teach him to be serious, for Prince Charming did nothing but laugh to the
end of his days.  This did not, however, matter quite so much as might be supposed, for when
one plays all day long with some one who knows everything there is to know, one need not be
so very wise oneself.  And when the time came for Prince Charming to rule the country, the
Queen who sat beside him on the throne was a wise and beautiful maiden in a stiff white frock.
So the Prince laughed as much as before, and the country was governed with all the wisdom of
the fairies.