Austria formally declared war against Serbia, July 28, 1914. During the few days intervening
between the dispatch of the ultimatum to Serbia and the formal declaration of war, Serbia and
Russia, seeing the inevitable, had commenced to mobilize their armies. On the last day of July,
Germany as Austria's ally, issued an ultimatum with a twelve hour limit demanding that Russia
cease mobilization. They were fond of short term ultimatums. They did not permit more than
enough time for the dispatch to be transmitted and received, much less considered, before the
terms of it had expired. Russia demanded assurances from Austria that war was not forthcoming
and it continued to mobilize. On August 1, Germany declared war. France then began to mobilize.

Germany invaded the duchy of Luxemburg and demanded free passage for its troops across Belgium
to attack France at that country's most vulnerable point. King Albert of Belgium refused his
consent on the ground that the neutrality of his country had been guaranteed by the powers
of Europe, including Germany itself, and appealed for diplomatic help from Great Britain. That
country, which had sought through its foreign secretary, Sir Edward Grey, to preserve the peace
of Europe, was now aroused. August 4, it sent an ultimatum to Germany demanding that the neutrality
of Belgium be respected. As the demand was not complied with, Britain formally declared war
against Germany.

Italy at that time was joined with Germany and Austria in what was known as the Triple Alliance.
But Italy recognized the fact that the war was one of aggression and held that it was not bound
by its compact to assist its allies. The sympathies of its people were with the French and
British. Afterwards Italy repudiated entirely its alliance and all obligations to Germany and
Austria and entered the war on the side of the allies. Thus the country of Mazzini, of Garibaldi
and Victor Emmanuel, ranged itself on the side of emancipation and human rights.

The refusal of Italy to enter a war of conquest was the first event to set the balance of the
world seriously thinking of the meaning of the war. If Italy refused to join its old allies,
it meant that Italy was too honorable to assist their purposes; Italy knew the character of
its associates. When it finally repudiated them altogether and joined the war on the other
side, it was a terrific indictment of the Germanic powers, for Italy had much more to gain
in a material way from its old alliance. It simply showed the world that spirit was above materialism;
that emancipation was in the air and that the lamp of civilization might be dimmed but could
not be darkened by the forces of evil.

Those who had followed the Kaiser's attitudes and their reflections preceeding the war in the
German military party, were struck by a strange blending of martial glory and Christian compunction.
No one prays more loudly than the hypocrite and none so smug as the devil when a saint he would be.

During long years the military machine had been under construction. Human ingenuity had been
reduced to a remarkable state of organization and efficiency. One of the principal phases of
Kultur was the inauguration of a sort of scientific discipline which made the German people
not only soldiers in the field, but soldiers in the workshop, in the laboratory and at the
desk. The system extended to the schools and universities and permeated the thought of the
nation. It particularly was reflected in the home; the domestic arrangements and customs of
the people. The German husband was the commander-in-chief of his household. It was not that
benevolent lordship which the man of the house assumes toward his wife and family in other
nations. The stern note of command was always evident; that attitude of "attention!" "eyes
front!" and unquestioning obedience.

German women always were subordinate to their husbands and the male members of their families.
It was not because the man made the living and supported the woman. Frequently the German woman
contributed as much towards the support of the family as the males; it was because the German
male by the system which had been inculcated into him, regarded himself as a superior being
and his women as inferiors, made for drudgery, for child-bearing, and for contributors to his
comforts and pleasures. His attitude was pretty much like that of the American Indian towards
his squaw.

Germany was the only nation on earth pretending to civilization in which women took the place
of beasts of burden. They not only worked in the fields, but frequently pulled the plow and
other implements of agriculture. It was not an uncommon sight in Germany to see a woman and
a large dog harnessed together drawing a milk cart. When it became necessary to deliver the
milk the woman slipped her part of the harness, served the customer, resumed her harness and
went on to the next stop. In Belgium, in Holland and in France, women delivered the milk also,
but the cart always was drawn by one or two large dogs or other animals and the woman was the
driver. In Austria it was a strange sight to foreigners, but occasioned no remark among the
people, to see women drawing carts and wagons in which were seated their lords and masters.
Not infrequently the boss wielded a whip.

The pride of the German nation was in its efficient workmen. Friends of the country and its
system have pointed to the fact of universal labor as its great virtue; because to work is
good. Really, they were compelled to work. Long hours and the last degree of efficiency were
necessary in order to meet the requirements of life and the tremendous burdens of taxation
caused by the army, the navy, the fortifications and the military machine in general; to say
nothing of the expense of maintaining the autocratic pomp of the Kaiser, his sons and satellites.
Every member of the German family had his or her task, even to the little three-year-old toddler
whose business it was to look after the brooms, dust rags and other household utensils. There
was nothing of cheerfulness or even of the dignity of labor about this. It was hard, unceasing,
grinding toil which crushed the spirits of the people. It was part of the system to cause them
to welcome war as a diversion.

To the German mind everything had an aspect of seriousness. The people took their pleasures
seriously. On their holidays, mostly occasions on which they celebrated an event in history
or the birthday of a monarch or military hero, or during the hours which they could devote
to relaxation, they gathered with serious, stolid faces in beer gardens. If they danced it
was mostly a cumbersome performance. Generally they preferred to sit and blink behind great
foaming tankards and listen to intellectual music. No other nation had such music. It was so
intellectual in itself that it relieved the listeners of the necessity of thinking. There was
not much of melody in it; little of the dance movement and very little of the lighter and gayer
manifestations of life. It has been described as a sort of harmonious discord, typifying mysterious,
tragic and awe-inspiring things. The people sat and ate their heavy food and drank their beer,
their ears engaged with the strains of the orchestra, their eyes by the movements of the conductor,
while their tired brains rested and digestion proceeded.

To the average German family a picnic or a day's outing was a serious affair. The labor of
preparation was considerable and then they covered as much of the distance as possible by walking
in order to save carfare. In the parade was the tired, careworn wife usually carrying one,
sometimes two infants in her arms. The other children lugged the lunch baskets, hammocks, umbrellas
and other paraphernalia. At the head of the procession majestically marched the lord of the
outfit, smoking his cigar or pipe; a suggestion of the goose-step in his stride, carrying nothing,
except his dignity and military deportment. With this kind of start the reader can imagine
the good time they all had.

MILITARISM AND AUTOCRACY DOOMED Joy to the German mind in mass was an unknown quantity. The
literature on which they fed was heavier and more somber than their music. When the average
German tried to be gay and playful he reminded one of an elephant trying to caper. Their humor
in the main, manifested itself in coarse and vulgar jests.

For athletics they had their turn vereins in which men went through hard, laborious exercises
which made them muscle-bound. Their favorite sports were hunting and fencing--the desire to
kill or wound. They rowed some but they knew nothing of baseball, boxing, tennis, golf or the
usual sports so popular with young men in England, France and America. Aside from fencing,
they had not a sport calculated to produce agility or nimbleness of foot and brain.

Their emotions expanded and their sentiments thrilled at the spectacle of war. Uniforms, helmets
and gold lace delighted their eyes. The parade, the guard mount, the review were the finest
things they knew. To a people trained in such a school and purposely given great burdens that
they might attain fortitude, war was second nature. They welcomed it as a sort of pastime.

In the system on which Kultur was based, it was necessary to strike deeply the religious note;
no difference if it was a false note. The German ear was so accustomed to discord it could
not recognize the true from the false. The Kaiser was heralded to his people as a deeply religious
man. In his public utterances he never failed to call upon God to grant him aid and bless his
works.

One of the old traditions of the Fatherland was that the king, being specially appointed by
God, could do no wrong. To the thinking portion of the nation this could have been nothing
less than absurd fallacy, but where the majority do not think; if a thing is asserted strongly
and often enough, they come to accept it. It becomes a belief. The people had become so impressed
with the devoutness of the Kaiser and his assumption of Divine guidance, that the great majority
of them believed the kaiser was always right; that he could do no wrong. When the great blow
of war finally was struck the Kaiser asked his God to look down and bless the sword that he
had drawn; a prayer altogether consistent coming from his lips, for the god he worshipped loved
war, was a god of famine, rapine and blood. From the moment of that appeal, military autocracy
and absolute monarchy were doomed. It took time, it took lives, it took more treasure than
a thousand men could count in a lifetime. But the assault had been against civilization, on
the very foundation of all that humanity had gained through countless centuries. The forces
of light were too strong for it; would not permit it to triumph.

The President of the United States, from the bedside of his dying wife, appealed to the nations
for some means of reaching peace for Europe. The last thoughts of his dying helpmate, were
of the great responsibility resting upon her husband incident to the awful crisis in the lives
of the nations of earth, that was becoming more pronounced with each second of time.

The Pope was stricken to death by the great calamity to civilization. A few minutes before
the end came he said that the Almighty in His infinite mercy was removing him from the world
to spare him the anguish of the awful war.

The first inclination of America was to be neutral. She was far removed from the scenes of
strife and knew little of the hidden springs and causes of the war. Excepting in the case of
a few of her public men; her editors, professors and scholars, European politics were as a
sealed book. The president of the United States declared for neutrality; that individual and
nation should avoid the inflaming touch of the war passion. We kept that attitude as long as
was consistent with national patience and the larger claims of HUMANITY and universal JUSTICE.

As an evidence of our lack of knowledge of the impending conflict, a party of Christian men
were on the sea with the humanitarian object in view of attending a world's peace conference
in Constance, Germany--Germany of all places, then engaged in trying to burn up the world.
Arriving in Paris, the party received its first news that a great European war was about to
begin. Steamship offices were being stormed by crowds of frantic American tourists. Martial
law was declared. The streets were alive with soldiers and weeping women. Shops were closed,
the clerks having been drafted into the army. The city hummed with militarism.

Underneath the excitement was the stern, stoic attitude of the French in preparing to meet
their old enemy, combined with their calmness in refraining from outbreaks against German residents
of Paris. One of the party alluding to the incongruous position in which the peace delegates
found themselves, said:

     "It might be interesting to observe the unique and almost humorous
     situation into which these peace delegates were thrown. Starting
     out a week before with the largest hope and most enthusiastic
     anticipation of effecting a closer tie between nations, and
     swinging the churches of Christendom into a clearer alignment
     against international martial attitudes, we were instantly
     'disarmed,' bound, and cast into chains of utter helplessness, not
     even feeling free to express the feeblest sentiment against the
     high rising tide of military activity. We were lost on a
     tempestuous sea; the dove of peace had been beaten, broken winged
     to shore, and the olive branch lost in its general fury."

Describing conditions in Paris on August 12, he says:

     "We are in a state of tense expectation, so acute that it dulls the
     senses; Paris is relapsing into the condition of an audience
     assisting at a thrilling drama with intolerably long entr'acts,
     during which it tries to think of its own personal affairs.

     "We know that pages of history are being rapidly engraved in steel,
     written in blood, illuminated in the margin with glory on a
     background of heroism and suffering, not more than a few score
     miles away.

     "The shrieking camelots (peddlers) gallop through the streets
     waving their news sheets, but it is almost always news of
     twenty-four hours ago. The iron hand of the censor reduces the
     press to a monotonous repetition of the same formula. Only
     headlines give scope for originality. Of local news there is none.
     There is nothing doing in Paris but steady preparation for meeting
     contingencies by organizing ambulances and relief for the poor."

From the thousands of tales brought back by American tourists caught in Germany at the outbreak
of the war, there is more than enough evidence that they were not treated with that courtesy
manifested towards them by the French. They were arrested as spies, subjected to all sorts
of embarrassments and indignities; their persons searched, their baggage and letters examined,
and frequently were detained for long periods without any explanation being offered. When finally
taken to the frontier, they were not merely put across--frequently they were in a sense thrown
across.

Nor were the subjects of other nations, particularly those with which Germany was at war, treated
with that fine restraint which characterized the French. Here is an account by a traveller
of the treatment of Russian subjects:

     "We left Berlin on the day Germany declared war against Russia. Within
     seventy-five miles of the frontier, 1,000 Russians in the train by
     which they were travelling were turned out of the carriage and
     compelled to spend eighteen hours without food in an open field
     surrounded by soldiers with fixed bayonets.

     "Then they were placed in dirty cattle wagons, about sixty men, women
     and children to a wagon, and for twenty-eight hours were carried about
     Prussia without food, drink or privacy. In Stettin they were lodged in
     pig pens, and next morning were sent off by steamer to Rugen, whence
     they made their way to Denmark and Sweden without money or luggage.
     Sweden provided them with food and free passage to the Russian
     frontier. Five of our fellow-passengers went mad."

The steamship Philadelphia--note the name, signifying brotherly love, so completely lost sight
of in the conflict--was the first passenger liner to reach America after the beginning of the
European war. A more remarkable crowd never arrived in New York City by steamship or train.
There were men of millions and persons of modest means who had slept side by side on the journey
over; voyagers with balances of tens of thousands of dollars in banks and not a cent in their
pocketbooks; men able and eager to pay any price for the best accommodations to be had, yet
satisfied and happy sharing bunks in the steerage.

There were women who had lost all baggage and had come alone, their friends and relatives being
unable to get accommodations on the vessel. There were children who had come on board with
their mothers, with neither money nor reservations, who were happy because they had received
the very best treatment from all the steamship's officers and crew and because they had enjoyed
the most comfortable quarters to be had, surrendered by men who were content to sleep in most
humble surroundings, or, if necessary, as happened in a few cases, to sleep on the decks when
the weather permitted.

Wealthy, but without funds, many of the passengers gave jewelry to the stewards and other employees
of the steamship as the tips which they assumed were expected even in times of stress. The
crew took them apologetically, some said they were content to take only the thanks of the passengers.
One woman of wealth and social position, without money, and having lost her check book with
her baggage, as had many others of the passengers, gave a pair of valuable bracelets to her
steward with the request that he give them to his wife. She gave a hat--the only one she managed
to take with her on her flight from Switzerland--to her stewardess.

The statue of Liberty never looked so beautiful to a party of Americans before. The strains
of the Star Spangled Banner, as they echoed over the waters of the bay, were never sweeter
nor more inspiring. As the Philadelphia approached quarrantine, the notes of the American anthem
swelled until, as she slowed down to await the coming of the physicians and customs officials,
it rose to a great crescendo which fell upon the ears of all within many hundred yards and
brought an answering chorus from the throngs who waited to extend their hands to relatives
and friends.

There was prophecy in the minds of men and women aboard that ship. Some of them had been brought
into actual contact with the war; others very near it. In the minds of all was the vision that
liberty, enlightenment and all the fruits of progress were threatened; that if they were to
be saved, somehow, this land typified the spirit of succor; somehow the aid was to proceed
from here.

Liberty never had a more cherished meaning to men of this Republic. In the minds of many the
conviction had taken root, that if autocracy and absolute monarchy were to be overthrown; that
"government of the people, by the people, for the people" should "not perish from the earth,"
it would eventually require from America that supreme sacrifice in devotion and blood that
at periods in the growth and development of nations, is their last resort against the menace
of external attack, and, regardless of the reflections of theorists and philosophers, the best
and surest guarantee of their longevity; that the principles upon which they were builded were
something more than mere words, hollow platitudes, meaning nothing, worthy of nothing, inspiring
nothing. It was the dawning of a day; new and strange in its requirements of America whose
isolation and policy, as bequeathed by the fathers, had kept it aloof from the bickerings and
quarrels of the nations that composed the "Armed Camp" of Europe, during which, as subsequent
events proved, the blood of the Caucasian and the Negro would upon many a hard fought pass;
many a smoking trench in the battle zone of Europe, run together in one rivulet of departing
life, for the guarantee of liberty throughout all the earth, and the establishment of justice
at its uttermost bounds and ends.

August 4,1914, President Wilson proclaimed the neutrality of the United States. A more consistent
attempt to maintain that attitude was never made by a nation. In an appeal addressed to the
American people on August 18th, the president implored the citizens to refrain from "taking sides."

American poise had been somewhat disturbed over the treatment of American tourists caught in
Germany at the outbreak of the war. American sentiment was openly agitated by the invasion
of Belgium and the insolent repudiation by Germany of her treaty obligations. The German chancellor
had referred to the treaty with Belgium as "a scrap of paper." These things had created a suspicion
in American minds, having to do with what seemed Germany's real and ulterior object, but in
the main the people of this county accepted the president's appeal in the spirit in which it
was intended and tried to live up to it, which attitude was kept to the very limit of human
forbearance.

A few editors and public men, mostly opposed to the president politically, thought we were
carrying the principle of neutrality too far; that the violation of Belgium was a crime against
humanity in general and that if we did not at least protest against it, we would be guilty
of national stultification if not downright cowardice. Against this view was invoked the time-honored
principles of the Monroe Doctrine and its great corollary, Washington's advice against becoming
entangled in European affairs. Our first president, in his farewell address, established a
precept of national conduct that up to the time we were drawn into the European war, had become
almost a principle of religion with us.

The Monroe Doctrine was a statement of principles made by President Monroe in his famous message
of December 2, 1823. The occasion of the utterance was the threat by the so-called Holy Alliance
to interfere forcibly in South America with a view to reseating Spain in control of her former
colonies there. President Monroe, pointing to the fact that it was a principle of American
policy not to intermeddle in European affairs, gave warning that any attempt by the monarchies
of Europe "to extend their system to any portion of this hemisphere" would be considered by
the United States "as dangerous to our peace and safety." This warning fell in line with British
policy at the time and so proved efficacious.

In a later section of the same message the proposition was also advanced that the American
continent was no longer subject to colonization. This clause of the doctrine was the work of
Monroe's secretary of state, John Quincy Adams, and its occasion was furnished by the fear
that Russia was planning to set up a colony at San Francisco, then the property of Spain, whose
natural heir on the North American continent, Adams held, was the United States. It is this
clause of the document that has furnished much of the basis for its subsequent development.

In 1902 Germany united with Great Britain and Italy to collect by force certain claims against
Venezuela. President Roosevelt demanded and finally, after threatening to dispatch Admiral
Dewey to the scene of action, obtained a statement that she would not permanently occupy Venezuelan
territory. Of this statement one of the most experienced and trusted American editors, avowedly
friendly to Germany, remarked at the time, that while he believed "it was and will remain true
for some time to come, I cannot, in view of the spirit now evidently dominant in the mind of
the emperor and among many who stand near him, express any belief that such assurances will
remain trustworthy for any great length of time after Germany shall have developed a fleet
larger than that of the United States." He accordingly cautioned the United States "to bear
in mind probabilities and possibilities as to the future conduct of Germany, and therefore
increase gradually our naval strength." Bismarck pronounced the Monroe Doctrine "an international
impertinence," and this has been the German view all along.

Dr. Zorn, one of the most conservative of German authorities on international affairs, concluded
an article in Die Woche of September 13, 1913, with these words: "Considered in all its phases,
the Monroe Doctrine is in the end seen to be a question of might only and not of right."

The German government's efforts to check American influence in the Latin American states had
of late years been frequent and direct. They comprised the encouragement of German emigration
to certain regions, the sending of agents to maintain close contact, presentation of German
flags in behalf of the Kaiser, the placing of the German Evangelical churches in certain South
American countries under the Prussian State Church, annual grants for educational purposes
from the imperial treasury at Berlin, and the like.

The "Lodge resolution," adopted by the senate in 1912, had in view the activities of certain
German corporations in Latin America, as well as the episode that immediately occasioned it;
nor can there be much doubt that it was the secret interference by Germany at Copenhagen that
thwarted the sale of the Danish West Indies to the United States in 1903.

In view of a report that a Japanese corporation, closely connected with the Japanese government,
was negotiating with the Mexican government for a territorial concession off Magdalena Bay,
in lower California, the senate in 1912 adopted the following resolution, which was offered
by Senator Lodge of Massachusetts:

     "That when any harbor or other place in the American continent is
     so situated that the occupation thereof for naval or military
     purposes might threaten the communications or the safety of the
     United States, the government of the United States could not see
     without grave concern, the possession of such harbor or other place
     by any corporation or association which has such a relation to
     another government, not American, as to give that government
     practical power of control for naval or military purposes."

All of the above documents, arguments and events were of the greatest importance in connection
with the great European struggle. America was rapidly awakening, and the role of a passive
onlooker became increasingly irksome. It was pointed out that Washington's message said we
must not implicate ourselves in the "ordinary vicissitudes" of European politics. This case
rapidly was assuming something decidedly beyond the "ordinary." As the carnage increased and
outrages piled up, the finest sensibilities of mankind were shocked and we began to ask ourselves
if we were not criminally negligent in our attitude; if it was not our duty to put forth a
staying hand and use the extreme weight of our influence to stop the holocaust.

From August 4 to 26, Germany overran Belgium. Liege was occupied August 9; Brussels, August
20, and Namur, August 24. The stories of atrocities committed on the civil population of that
country have since been well authenticated. At the time it was hard to believe them, so barbaric
and utterly wanton were they. Civilized people could not understand how a nation which pretended
to be not only civilized, but wished to impose its culture on the remainder of the world, could
be so ruthless to a small adversary which had committed no crime and desired only to preserve
its nationality, integrity and treaty rights.

Germany did not occupy Antwerp until October 9, owing to the stiff resistance of the Belgians
and engagements with the French and British elsewhere. But German arms were uniformly victorious.
August 21-23 occurred the battle of Mons-Charleroi, a serious defeat for the French and British,
which resulted in a dogged retreat eventually to a line along the Seine, Marne and Meuse rivers.

The destruction of Louvain occurred August 26, and was one of the events which inflamed anti-German
sentiment throughout the world. The beautiful cathedral, the historic cloth market, the library
and other architectural monuments for which the city was famed, were put to the torch. The
Belgian priesthood was in woe over these and other atrocities. Cardinal Mercier called upon
the Christian world to note and protest against these crimes. In his pastoral letter of Christmas,
1914, he thus pictures Belgium's woe and her Christian fortitude:

     "And there where lives were not taken, and there where the stones
     of buildings were not thrown down, what anguish unrevealed!
     Families hitherto living at ease, now in bitter want; all commerce
     at an end, all careers ruined; industry at a standstill; thousands
     upon thousands of workingmen without employment; working women;
     shop girls, humble servant girls without the means of earning their
     bread, and poor souls forlorn on the bed of sickness and fever
     crying: 'O Lord, how long, how long?'--God will save Belgium, my
     brethren; you can not doubt it. Nay, rather, He is saving
     her--Which of us would have the heart to cancel this page of our
     national history? Which of us does not exult in the brightness of
     the glory of this shattered nation? When in her throes she brings
     forth heroes, our mother country gives her own energy to the blood
     of those sons of hers. Let us acknowledge that we needed a lesson
     in patriotism--For down within us all is something deeper than
     personal interests, than personal kinships, than party feeling, and
     this is the need and the will to devote ourselves to that most
     general interest which Rome termed the public thing, Res publica.
     And this profound will within us is patriotism."

Meanwhile there was a slight offset to the German successes. Russia had overrun Galicia and
the Allies had conquered the Germany colony of Togoland in Africa. But on August 26 the Russians
were severely defeated in the battle of Tannenburg in East Prussia. This was offset by a British
naval victory in Helgoland Bight. (August 28.)

So great had become the pressure of the German armies that on September 3 the French government
removed from Paris to Bordeaux. The seriousness of the situation was made manifest when two
days later Great Britain, France and Russia signed a treaty not to make peace separately. Then
it became evident to the nations of the earth that the struggle was not only to be a long one,
but in all probability the most gigantic in history.

The Germans reached the extreme point of their advance, culminating in the Battle of the Marne,
September 6-10. Here the generalship of Joffre and the strategy of Foch overcame great odds.
The Germans were driven back from the Marne to the River Aisne. The battle line then remained
practically stationary for three years on a front of three hundred miles.

The Russians under General Rennenkampf were driven from East Prussia September 16. Three British
armored cruisers were sunk by a submarine September 22. By September 27 General Botha had gained
some successes for the Allies, and had under way an invasion of German Southwest Africa. By
October 13 Belgium was so completely occupied by the Germans that the government withdrew entirely
from the country and established itself at Le Havre in France. By the end of the year had occurred
the Battle of Yser in Belgium (October 16-28); the first Battle of Ypres (decisive day October
31), in which the British, French and Belgians saved the French channel ports; De Wet's rebellion
against the British in South Africa (October 28); German naval victory in the Pacific off the
coast of Chile (November 1); fall of Tsingtau, German possession in China, to the Japanese
(November 7); Austrian invasion of Serbia (Belgrade taken December 2, recaptured by the Serbians
December 14); German commerce raider Emden caught and destroyed at Cocos Island (November 10);
British naval victory off the Falkland Islands (December 8); South African rebellion collapsed
(December 8); French government returned to Paris (December 9); German warships bombarded West
Hartlepool, Scarborough and Whitby on the coast of England (December 16). On December 24 the
Germans showed their Christian spirit in an inauguration of the birthday of Christ by the first
air raid over England. The latter part of the year 1914 saw no important action by the United
States excepting a proclamation by the president of the neutrality of the Panama canal zone.

The events of 1915 and succeeding years became of great importance to the United States and
it is with a record of those having the greatest bearing on our country that this account principally
will deal.

On January 20 Secretary of State Bryan found it necessary to explain and defend our policy
of neutrality.

The United States on February 20 sent an identic note to Germany and Great Britain suggesting
an agreement between them respecting the conduct of naval warfare. The British steamship Falaba
was sunk by a submarine March 28, with a loss of 111 lives, one of which was an American. On
April 22 the German embassy in America sent out a warning against embarkation on vessels belonging
to Great Britain. The American vessel Cushing was attacked by a German aeroplane April 28.
On May 1 the American steamship Gullflight was sunk by a German submarine and two Americans
were lost. That day the warning of the German embassy was published in the daily papers. The
Lusitania sailed at 12:20 noon.

Five days later occurred the crime which almost brought America into the second year of the
war. The Cunard line steamship Lusitania was sunk by a German submarine with a loss of 1,154
lives, of which 114 were Americans. After the policy of frightfulness put into effect by the
Germans in Belgium and other invaded territories, the massacres of civilians, the violation
of women and killing of children; burning, looting and pillage; the destruction of whole towns,
acts for which no military necessity could be pleaded, civilization should have been prepared
for the Lusitania crime. But it seems it was not. The burst of indignation throughout the United
States was terrible. Here was where the terms German and Hun became synonomous, having in mind
the methods and ravages of the barbaric scourge Attilla, king of the Huns, who in the fifth
century sacked a considerable portion of Europe and introduced some refinements in cruelty
which have never been excelled.

