"Matter enough!" he says. "Wasn't you expecting we would be the first to tell the family who
it is that's been killed yonder in the sycamores, and all about them rapscallions that done
it, and about the di'monds they've smouched off of the corpse, and paint it up fine, and have
the glory of being the ones that knows a lot more about it than anybody else?"

"Why, of course. It wouldn't be you, Tom Sawyer, if you was to let such a chance go by. I reckon
it ain't going to suffer none for lack of paint," I says, "when you start in to scollop the facts."

"Well, now," he says, perfectly ca'm, "what would you say if I was to tell you I ain't going
to start in at all?"

I was astonished to hear him talk so. I says:

"I'd say it's a lie. You ain't in earnest, Tom Sawyer?"

"You'll soon see. Was the ghost barefooted?"

"No, it wasn't. What of it?"

"You wait--I'll show you what. Did it have its boots on?"

"Yes. I seen them plain."

"Swear it?"

"Yes, I swear it."

"So do I. Now do you know what that means?"

"No. What does it mean?"

"Means that them thieves DIDN'T GET THE DI'MONDS."

"Jimminy! What makes you think that?"

"I don't only think it, I know it. Didn't the breeches and goggles and whiskers and hand-bag
and every blessed thing turn to ghost-stuff? Everything it had on turned, didn't it? It shows
that the reason its boots turned too was because it still had them on after it started to go
ha'nting around, and if that ain't proof that them blatherskites didn't get the boots, I'd
like to know what you'd CALL proof."

Think of that now. I never see such a head as that boy had. Why, I had eyes and I could see
things, but they never meant nothing to me. But Tom Sawyer was different. When Tom Sawyer seen
a thing it just got up on its hind legs and TALKED to him--told him everything it knowed. I
never see such a head.

"Tom Sawyer," I says, "I'll say it again as I've said it a many a time before: I ain't fitten
to black your boots. But that's all right--that's neither here nor there. God Almighty made
us all, and some He gives eyes that's blind, and some He gives eyes that can see, and I reckon
it ain't none of our lookout what He done it for; it's all right, or He'd 'a' fixed it some
other way. Go on--I see plenty plain enough, now, that them thieves didn't get way with the
di'monds. Why didn't they, do you reckon?"

"Because they got chased away by them other two men before they could pull the boots off of
the corpse."

"That's so! I see it now. But looky here, Tom, why ain't we to go and tell about it?"

"Oh, shucks, Huck Finn, can't you see? Look at it. What's a-going to happen? There's going
to be an inquest in the morning. Them two men will tell how they heard the yells and rushed
there just in time to not save the stranger. Then the jury'll twaddle and twaddle and twaddle,
and finally they'll fetch in a verdict that he got shot or stuck or busted over the head with
something, and come to his death by the inspiration of God. And after they've buried him they'll
auction off his things for to pay the expenses, and then's OUR chance." "How, Tom?"

"Buy the boots for two dollars!"

Well, it 'most took my breath.

"My land! Why, Tom, WE'LL get the di'monds!"

"You bet. Some day there'll be a big reward offered for them--a thousand dollars, sure. That's
our money! Now we'll trot in and see the folks. And mind you we don't know anything about any
murder, or any di'monds, or any thieves--don't you forget that."

I had to sigh a little over the way he had got it fixed. I'd 'a' SOLD them di'monds--yes, sir--for
twelve thousand dollars; but I didn't say anything. It wouldn't done any good. I says:

"But what are we going to tell your aunt Sally has made us so long getting down here from the
village, Tom?"

"Oh, I'll leave that to you," he says. "I reckon you can explain it somehow."

He was always just that strict and delicate. He never would tell a lie himself.

We struck across the big yard, noticing this, that, and t'other thing that was so familiar,
and we so glad to see it again, and when we got to the roofed big passageway betwixt the double
log house and the kitchen part, there was everything hanging on the wall just as it used to
was, even to Uncle Silas's old faded green baize working-gown with the hood to it, and raggedy
white patch between the shoulders that always looked like somebody had hit him with a snowball;
and then we lifted the latch and walked in. Aunt Sally she was just a-ripping and a-tearing
around, and the children was huddled in one corner, and the old man he was huddled in the other
and praying for help in time of need. She jumped for us with joy and tears running down her
face and give us a whacking box on the ear, and then hugged us and kissed us and boxed us again,
and just couldn't seem to get enough of it, she was so glad to see us; and she says:

"Where HAVE you been a-loafing to, you good-for-nothing trash! I've been that worried about
you I didn't know what to do. Your traps has been here ever so long, and I've had supper cooked
fresh about four times so as to have it hot and good when you come, till at last my patience
is just plumb wore out, and I declare I--I--why I could skin you alive! You must be starving,
poor things!--set down, set down, everybody; don't lose no more time."

It was good to be there again behind all that noble corn-pone and spareribs, and everything
that you could ever want in this world. Old Uncle Silas he peeled off one of his bulliest old-time
blessings, with as many layers to it as an onion, and whilst the angels was hauling in the
slack of it I was trying to study up what to say about what kept us so long. When our plates
was all loadened and we'd got a-going, she asked me, and I says:

"Well, you see,--er--Mizzes--"

"Huck Finn! Since when am I Mizzes to you? Have I ever been stingy of cuffs or kisses for you
since the day you stood in this room and I took you for Tom Sawyer and blessed God for sending
you to me, though you told me four thousand lies and I believed every one of them like a simpleton?
Call me Aunt Sally--like you always done."

So I done it. And I says:

"Well, me and Tom allowed we would come along afoot and take a smell of the woods, and we run
across Lem Beebe and Jim Lane, and they asked us to go with them blackberrying to-night, and
said they could borrow Jubiter Dunlap's dog, because he had told them just that minute--"

"Where did they see him?" says the old man; and when I looked up to see how HE come to take
an intrust in a little thing like that, his eyes was just burning into me, he was that eager.
It surprised me so it kind of throwed me off, but I pulled myself together again and says:

"It was when he was spading up some ground along with you, towards sundown or along there."

He only said, "Um," in a kind of a disappointed way, and didn't take no more intrust. So I
went on. I says:

"Well, then, as I was a-saying--"

"That'll do, you needn't go no furder." It was Aunt Sally. She was boring right into me with
her eyes, and very indignant. "Huck Finn," she says, "how'd them men come to talk about going
a-black-berrying in September--in THIS region?"

I see I had slipped up, and I couldn't say a word. She waited, still a-gazing at me, then she says:

"And how'd they come to strike that idiot idea of going a-blackberrying in the night?"

"Well, m'm, they--er--they told us they had a lantern, and--"

"Oh, SHET up--do! Looky here; what was they going to do with a dog?--hunt blackberries with it?"

"I think, m'm, they--"

"Now, Tom Sawyer, what kind of a lie are you fixing YOUR mouth to contribit to this mess of
rubbage? Speak out--and I warn you before you begin, that I don't believe a word of it. You
and Huck's been up to something you no business to--I know it perfectly well; I know you, BOTH
of you. Now you explain that dog, and them blackberries, and the lantern, and the rest of that
rot--and mind you talk as straight as a string--do you hear?"

Tom he looked considerable hurt, and says, very dignified:

"It is a pity if Huck is to be talked to that way, just for making a little bit of a mistake
that anybody could make."

"What mistake has he made?"

"Why, only the mistake of saying blackberries when of course he meant strawberries."

"Tom Sawyer, I lay if you aggravate me a little more, I'll--"

"Aunt Sally, without knowing it--and of course without intending it--you are in the wrong.
If you'd 'a' studied natural history the way you ought, you would know that all over the world
except just here in Arkansaw they ALWAYS hunt strawberries with a dog--and a lantern--"

But she busted in on him there and just piled into him and snowed him under. She was so mad
she couldn't get the words out fast enough, and she gushed them out in one everlasting freshet.
That was what Tom Sawyer was after. He allowed to work her up and get her started and then
leave her alone and let her burn herself out. Then she would be so aggravated with that subject
that she wouldn't say another word about it, nor let anybody else. Well, it happened just so.
When she was tuckered out and had to hold up, he says, quite ca'm:

"And yet, all the same, Aunt Sally--"

"Shet up!" she says, "I don't want to hear another word out of you."

So we was perfectly safe, then, and didn't have no more trouble about that delay. Tom done
it elegant.

CHAPTER VII. A NIGHT'S VIGIL

BENNY she was looking pretty sober, and she sighed some, now and then; but pretty soon she
got to asking about Mary, and Sid, and Tom's aunt Polly, and then Aunt Sally's clouds cleared
off and she got in a good humor and joined in on the questions and was her lovingest best self,
and so the rest of the supper went along gay and pleasant. But the old man he didn't take any
hand hardly, and was absent-minded and restless, and done a considerable amount of sighing;
and it was kind of heart-breaking to see him so sad and troubled and worried.

By and by, a spell after supper, come a nigger and knocked on the door and put his head in
with his old straw hat in his hand bowing and scraping, and said his Marse Brace was out at
the stile and wanted his brother, and was getting tired waiting supper for him, and would Marse
Silas please tell him where he was? I never see Uncle Silas speak up so sharp and fractious
before. He says:

"Am I his brother's keeper?" And then he kind of wilted together, and looked like he wished
he hadn't spoken so, and then he says, very gentle: "But you needn't say that, Billy; I was
took sudden and irritable, and I ain't very well these days, and not hardly responsible. Tell
him he ain't here."

And when the nigger was gone he got up and walked the floor, backwards and forwards, mumbling
and muttering to himself and plowing his hands through his hair. It was real pitiful to see
him. Aunt Sally she whispered to us and told us not to take notice of him, it embarrassed him.
She said he was always thinking and thinking, since these troubles come on, and she allowed
he didn't more'n about half know what he was about when the thinking spells was on him; and
she said he walked in his sleep considerable more now than he used to, and sometimes wandered
around over the house and even outdoors in his sleep, and if we catched him at it we must let
him alone and not disturb him. She said she reckoned it didn't do him no harm, and may be it
done him good. She said Benny was the only one that was much help to him these days. Said Benny
appeared to know just when to try to soothe him and when to leave him alone.

So he kept on tramping up and down the floor and muttering, till by and by he begun to look
pretty tired; then Benny she went and snuggled up to his side and put one hand in his and one
arm around his waist and walked with him; and he smiled down on her, and reached down and kissed
her; and so, little by little the trouble went out of his face and she persuaded him off to
his room. They had very petting ways together, and it was uncommon pretty to see.

Aunt Sally she was busy getting the children ready for bed; so by and by it got dull and tedious,
and me and Tom took a turn in the moonlight, and fetched up in the watermelon-patch and et
one, and had a good deal of talk. And Tom said he'd bet the quarreling was all Jubiter's fault,
and he was going to be on hand the first time he got a chance, and see; and if it was so, he
was going to do his level best to get Uncle Silas to turn him off.

And so we talked and smoked and stuffed watermelons much as two hours, and then it was pretty
late, and when we got back the house was quiet and dark, and everybody gone to bed.

Tom he always seen everything, and now he see that the old green baize work-gown was gone,
and said it wasn't gone when he went out; so he allowed it was curious, and then we went up to bed.

We could hear Benny stirring around in her room, which was next to ourn, and judged she was
worried a good deal about her father and couldn't sleep. We found we couldn't, neither. So
we set up a long time, and smoked and talked in a low voice, and felt pretty dull and down-hearted.
We talked the murder and the ghost over and over again, and got so creepy and crawly we couldn't
get sleepy nohow and noway.

By and by, when it was away late in the night and all the sounds was late sounds and solemn,
Tom nudged me and whispers to me to look, and I done it, and there we see a man poking around
in the yard like he didn't know just what he wanted to do, but it was pretty dim and we couldn't
see him good. Then he started for the stile, and as he went over it the moon came out strong,
and he had a long-handled shovel over his shoulder, and we see the white patch on the old work-gown.
So Tom says:

"He's a-walking in his sleep. I wish we was allowed to follow him and see where he's going
to. There, he's turned down by the tobacker-field. Out of sight now. It's a dreadful pity he
can't rest no better."

We waited a long time, but he didn't come back any more, or if he did he come around the other
way; so at last we was tuckered out and went to sleep and had nightmares, a million of them.
But before dawn we was awake again, because meantime a storm had come up and been raging, and
the thunder and lightning was awful, and the wind was a-thrashing the trees around, and the
rain was driving down in slanting sheets, and the gullies was running rivers. Tom says:

"Looky here, Huck, I'll tell you one thing that's mighty curious. Up to the time we went out
last night the family hadn't heard about Jake Dunlap being murdered. Now the men that chased
Hal Clayton and Bud Dixon away would spread the thing around in a half an hour, and every neighbor
that heard it would shin out and fly around from one farm to t'other and try to be the first
to tell the news. Land, they don't have such a big thing as that to tell twice in thirty year!
Huck, it's mighty strange; I don't understand it."

So then he was in a fidget for the rain to let up, so we could turn out and run across some
of the people and see if they would say anything about it to us. And he said if they did we
must be horribly surprised and shocked.

We was out and gone the minute the rain stopped. It was just broad day then. We loafed along
up the road, and now and then met a person and stopped and said howdy, and told them when we
come, and how we left the folks at home, and how long we was going to stay, and all that, but
none of them said a word about that thing; which was just astonishing, and no mistake. Tom
said he believed if we went to the sycamores we would find that body laying there solitary
and alone, and not a soul around. Said he believed the men chased the thieves so far into the
woods that the thieves prob'ly seen a good chance and turned on them at last, and maybe they
all killed each other, and so there wasn't anybody left to tell.

First we knowed, gabbling along that away, we was right at the sycamores. The cold chills trickled
down my back and I wouldn't budge another step, for all Tom's persuading. But he couldn't hold
in; he'd GOT to see if the boots was safe on that body yet. So he crope in--and the next minute
out he come again with his eyes bulging he was so excited, and says:

"Huck, it's gone!"

I WAS astonished! I says:

"Tom, you don't mean it."

"It's gone, sure. There ain't a sign of it. The ground is trampled some, but if there was any
blood it's all washed away by the storm, for it's all puddles and slush in there."

At last I give in, and went and took a look myself; and it was just as Tom said--there wasn't
a sign of a corpse.

"Dern it," I says, "the di'monds is gone. Don't you reckon the thieves slunk back and lugged
him off, Tom?"

"Looks like it. It just does. Now where'd they hide him, do you reckon?"

"I don't know," I says, disgusted, "and what's more I don't care. They've got the boots, and
that's all I cared about. He'll lay around these woods a long time before I hunt him up."

Tom didn't feel no more intrust in him neither, only curiosity to know what come of him; but
he said we'd lay low and keep dark and it wouldn't be long till the dogs or somebody rousted
him out.

We went back home to breakfast ever so bothered and put out and disappointed and swindled.
I warn't ever so down on a corpse before.

CHAPTER VIII. TALKING WITH THE GHOST

IT warn't very cheerful at breakfast. Aunt Sally she looked old and tired and let the children
snarl and fuss at one another and didn't seem to notice it was going on, which wasn't her usual
style; me and Tom had a plenty to think about without talking; Benny she looked like she hadn't
had much sleep, and whenever she'd lift her head a little and steal a look towards her father
you could see there was tears in her eyes; and as for the old man, his things stayed on his
plate and got cold without him knowing they was there, I reckon, for he was thinking and thinking
all the time, and never said a word and never et a bite.

By and by when it was stillest, that nigger's head was poked in at the door again, and he said
his Marse Brace was getting powerful uneasy about Marse Jubiter, which hadn't come home yet,
and would Marse Silas please--He was looking at Uncle Silas, and he stopped there, like the
rest of his words was froze; for Uncle Silas he rose up shaky and steadied himself leaning
his fingers on the table, and he was panting, and his eyes was set on the nigger, and he kept
swallowing, and put his other hand up to his throat a couple of times, and at last he got his
words started, and says:

"Does he--does he--think--WHAT does he think! Tell him--tell him--" Then he sunk down in his
chair limp and weak, and says, so as you could hardly hear him: "Go away--go away!"

The nigger looked scared and cleared out, and we all felt--well, I don't know how we felt,
but it was awful, with the old man panting there, and his eyes set and looking like a person
that was dying. None of us could budge; but Benny she slid around soft, with her tears running
down, and stood by his side, and nestled his old gray head up against her and begun to stroke
it and pet it with her hands, and nodded to us to go away, and we done it, going out very quiet,
like the dead was there.

Me and Tom struck out for the woods mighty solemn, and saying how different it was now to what
it was last summer when we was here and everything was so peaceful and happy and everybody
thought so much of Uncle Silas, and he was so cheerful and simple-hearted and pudd'n-headed
and good--and now look at him. If he hadn't lost his mind he wasn't much short of it. That
was what we allowed.

It was a most lovely day now, and bright and sunshiny; and the further and further we went
over the hills towards the prairie the lovelier and lovelier the trees and flowers got to be
and the more it seemed strange and somehow wrong that there had to be trouble in such a world
as this. And then all of a sudden I catched my breath and grabbed Tom's arm, and all my livers
and lungs and things fell down into my legs.

"There it is!" I says. We jumped back behind a bush shivering, and Tom says:

"'Sh!--don't make a noise."

It was setting on a log right in the edge of a little prairie, thinking. I tried to get Tom
to come away, but he wouldn't, and I dasn't budge by myself. He said we mightn't ever get another
chance to see one, and he was going to look his fill at this one if he died for it. So I looked
too, though it give me the fan-tods to do it. Tom he HAD to talk, but he talked low. He says:

"Poor Jakey, it's got all its things on, just as he said he would. NOW you see what we wasn't
certain about--its hair. It's not long now the way it was: it's got it cropped close to its
head, the way he said he would. Huck, I never see anything look any more naturaler than what
It does."

"Nor I neither," I says; "I'd recognize it anywheres."

"So would I. It looks perfectly solid and genuwyne, just the way it done before it died."

So we kept a-gazing. Pretty soon Tom says:

"Huck, there's something mighty curious about this one, don't you know? IT oughtn't to be going
around in the daytime."

"That's so, Tom--I never heard the like of it before."

"No, sir, they don't ever come out only at night--and then not till after twelve. There's something
wrong about this one, now you mark my words. I don't believe it's got any right to be around
in the daytime. But don't it look natural! Jake was going to play deef and dumb here, so the
neighbors wouldn't know his voice. Do you reckon it would do that if we was to holler at it?"

"Lordy, Tom, don't talk so! If you was to holler at it I'd die in my tracks."

"Don't you worry, I ain't going to holler at it. Look, Huck, it's a-scratching its head--don't
you see?"

"Well, what of it?"

"Why, this. What's the sense of it scratching its head? There ain't anything there to itch;
its head is made out of fog or something like that, and can't itch. A fog can't itch; any fool
knows that."

"Well, then, if it don't itch and can't itch, what in the nation is it scratching it for? Ain't
it just habit, don't you reckon?"

"No, sir, I don't. I ain't a bit satisfied about the way this one acts. I've a blame good notion
it's a bogus one--I have, as sure as I'm a-sitting here. Because, if it--Huck!"

"Well, what's the matter now?"

"YOU CAN'T SEE THE BUSHES THROUGH IT!"

"Why, Tom, it's so, sure! It's as solid as a cow. I sort of begin to think--"

"Huck, it's biting off a chaw of tobacker! By George, THEY don't chaw--they hain't got anything
to chaw WITH. Huck!"

"I'm a-listening."

"It ain't a ghost at all. It's Jake Dunlap his own self!"

"Oh your granny!" I says.

"Huck Finn, did we find any corpse in the sycamores?"

"No."

"Or any sign of one?"

"No."

"Mighty good reason. Hadn't ever been any corpse there."

"Why, Tom, you know we heard--"

"Yes, we did--heard a howl or two. Does that prove anybody was killed? Course it don't. And
we seen four men run, then this one come walking out and we took it for a ghost. No more ghost
than you are. It was Jake Dunlap his own self, and it's Jake Dunlap now. He's been and got
his hair cropped, the way he said he would, and he's playing himself for a stranger, just the
same as he said he would. Ghost? Hum!--he's as sound as a nut."

Then I see it all, and how we had took too much for granted. I was powerful glad he didn't
get killed, and so was Tom, and we wondered which he would like the best--for us to never let
on to know him, or how? Tom reckoned the best way would be to go and ask him. So he started;
but I kept a little behind, because I didn't know but it might be a ghost, after all. When
Tom got to where he was, he says:

"Me and Huck's mighty glad to see you again, and you needn't be afeared we'll tell. And if
you think it'll be safer for you if we don't let on to know you when we run across you, say
the word and you'll see you can depend on us, and would ruther cut our hands off than get you
into the least little bit of danger."

First off he looked surprised to see us, and not very glad, either; but as Tom went on he looked
pleasanter, and when he was done he smiled, and nodded his head several times, and made signs
with his hands, and says:

"Goo-goo--goo-goo," the way deef and dummies does.

Just then we see some of Steve Nickerson's people coming that lived t'other side of the prairie,
so Tom says:

"You do it elegant; I never see anybody do it better. You're right; play it on us, too; play
it on us same as the others; it'll keep you in practice and prevent you making blunders. We'll
keep away from you and let on we don't know you, but any time we can be any help, you just
let us know."

Then we loafed along past the Nickersons, and of course they asked if that was the new stranger
yonder, and where'd he come from, and what was his name, and which communion was he, Babtis'
or Methodis', and which politics, Whig or Democrat, and how long is he staying, and all them
other questions that humans always asks when a stranger comes, and animals does, too. But Tom
said he warn't able to make anything out of deef and dumb signs, and the same with goo-gooing.
Then we watched them go and bullyrag Jake; because we was pretty uneasy for him. Tom said it
would take him days to get so he wouldn't forget he was a deef and dummy sometimes, and speak
out before he thought. When we had watched long enough to see that Jake was getting along all
right and working his signs very good, we loafed along again, allowing to strike the schoolhouse
about recess time, which was a three-mile tramp.

I was so disappointed not to hear Jake tell about the row in the sycamores, and how near he
come to getting killed, that I couldn't seem to get over it, and Tom he felt the same, but
said if we was in Jake's fix we would want to go careful and keep still and not take any chances.

The boys and girls was all glad to see us again, and we had a real good time all through recess.
Coming to school the Henderson boys had come across the new deef and dummy and told the rest;
so all the scholars was chuck full of him and couldn't talk about anything else, and was in
a sweat to get a sight of him because they hadn't ever seen a deef and dummy in their lives,
and it made a powerful excitement.

Tom said it was tough to have to keep mum now; said we would be heroes if we could come out
and tell all we knowed; but after all, it was still more heroic to keep mum, there warn't two
boys in a million could do it. That was Tom Sawyer's idea about it, and I reckoned there warn't
anybody could better it.

CHAPTER IX. FINDING OF JUBITER DUNLAP

IN the next two or three days Dummy he got to be powerful popular. He went associating around
with the neighbors, and they made much of him, and was proud to have such a rattling curiosity
among them. They had him to breakfast, they had him to dinner, they had him to supper; they
kept him loaded up with hog and hominy, and warn't ever tired staring at him and wondering
over him, and wishing they knowed more about him, he was so uncommon and romantic. His signs
warn't no good; people couldn't understand them and he prob'ly couldn't himself, but he done
a sight of goo-gooing, and so everybody was satisfied, and admired to hear him go it. He toted
a piece of slate around, and a pencil; and people wrote questions on it and he wrote answers;
but there warn't anybody could read his writing but Brace Dunlap. Brace said he couldn't read
it very good, but he could manage to dig out the meaning most of the time. He said Dummy said
he belonged away off somers and used to be well off, but got busted by swindlers which he had
trusted, and was poor now, and hadn't any way to make a living.

Everybody praised Brace Dunlap for being so good to that stranger. He let him have a little
log-cabin all to himself, and had his niggers take care of it, and fetch him all the vittles
he wanted.

Dummy was at our house some, because old Uncle Silas was so afflicted himself, these days,
that anybody else that was afflicted was a comfort to him. Me and Tom didn't let on that we
had knowed him before, and he didn't let on that he had knowed us before. The family talked
their troubles out before him the same as if he wasn't there, but we reckoned it wasn't any
harm for him to hear what they said. Generly he didn't seem to notice, but sometimes he did.

Well, two or three days went along, and everybody got to getting uneasy about Jubiter Dunlap.
Everybody was asking everybody if they had any idea what had become of him. No, they hadn't,
they said: and they shook their heads and said there was something powerful strange about it.
Another and another day went by; then there was a report got around that praps he was murdered.
You bet it made a big stir! Everybody's tongue was clacking away after that. Saturday two or
three gangs turned out and hunted the woods to see if they could run across his remainders.
Me and Tom helped, and it was noble good times and exciting. Tom he was so brimful of it he
couldn't eat nor rest. He said if we could find that corpse we would be celebrated, and more
talked about than if we got drownded.

The others got tired and give it up; but not Tom Sawyer--that warn't his style. Saturday night
he didn't sleep any, hardly, trying to think up a plan; and towards daylight in the morning
he struck it. He snaked me out of bed and was all excited, and says:

"Quick, Huck, snatch on your clothes--I've got it! Bloodhound!"

In two minutes we was tearing up the river road in the dark towards the village. Old Jeff Hooker
had a bloodhound, and Tom was going to borrow him. I says:

"The trail's too old, Tom--and besides, it's rained, you know."

"It don't make any difference, Huck. If the body's hid in the woods anywhere around the hound
will find it. If he's been murdered and buried, they wouldn't bury him deep, it ain't likely,
and if the dog goes over the spot he'll scent him, sure. Huck, we're going to be celebrated,
sure as you're born!"

He was just a-blazing; and whenever he got afire he was most likely to get afire all over.
That was the way this time. In two minutes he had got it all ciphered out, and wasn't only
just going to find the corpse--no, he was going to get on the track of that murderer and hunt
HIM down, too; and not only that, but he was going to stick to him till--"Well," I says, "you
better find the corpse first; I reckon that's a-plenty for to-day. For all we know, there AIN'T
any corpse and nobody hain't been murdered. That cuss could 'a' gone off somers and not been
killed at all."

That graveled him, and he says:

