He fell back from the bench with a sharp exclamation, and stared at her through the gray twilight.
She went on hurriedly, again not looking at him:

"When you showed me that you cared for me--when you told me that you did--I--do you think I
wanted to care for you? I wanted to do something to show you that I could be ashamed of my
vile neglect of him--something to show you his daughter could be grateful. If I had loved you,
what I did would have been for that--and I could not have done it. And how could I have shown
my gratitude if I had done it for love? And it has been such dear, happy work, the little I
have done, that it seems, after all, that I have done it for love of myself. But--but when
you first told me--" She broke off with a strange, fluttering, half inarticulate little laugh
that was half tears; and then resumed in another tone: "When you told me you cared that night--that
night we were here--how could I be sure? It had been only two days, you see, and even if I
could have been sure of myself, why, I couldn't have told you. Oh! I had so brazenly thrown
myself at your head, time and again, those two days, in my--my worship of your goodness to
my father and my excitement in recognizing in his friend the hero of my girlhood, that you
had every right to think I cared; but if--but if I had--if I had--loved you with my whole soul,
I could not have--why, no woman could have--I mean the sort of girl I am couldn't have admitted
it--must have denied it. And what I was trying to do for you when we met in Rouen was--was
courting you. You surely see I couldn't have done it if I had cared. It would have been brazen!
And do you think that then I could have answered--'Yes'--even if I wanted to--even if I had
been sure of myself? And now--" Her voice sank again to a whisper. "And now----"

From the meadows across the creek, and over the fields, came a far tinkling of farm-bells.
Three months ago, at this hour, John Harkless had listened to that sound, and its great lonesomeness
had touched his heart like a cold hand; but now, as the mists were rising from the water and
the small stars pierced the sky one by one, glinting down through the dim, immeasurable blue
distances, he found no loneliness in heaven or earth. He leaned forward toward her; the bench
was between them. The last light was gone; evening had fallen.

"And now--" he said.

She moved backward as he leaned nearer.

"You promised to remember on the day you understood," she answered, a little huskily, "that
it was all from the purest gratitude."

"And--and there is nothing else?"

"If there were," she said, and her voice grew more and more unsteady, "if there were, can't
you see that what I have done--" She stopped, and then, suddenly, "Ah, it would have been brazen!"

He looked up at the little stars and he heard the bells, and they struck into his heart like
a dirge. He made a singular gesture of abnegation, and then dropped upon the bench with his
head bowed between his hands.

She pressed her hand to her bosom, watching him in a startled fashion, her eyes wide and her
lips parted. She took a few quick, short steps toward the garden, still watching him over her
shoulder.

"You mustn't worry," he said, not lifting his bent head, "I know you're sorry. I'll be all
right in a minute."

She gave a hurried glance from right to left and from left to right, like one in terror seeking
a way of escape; she gathered her skirts in her hand, as if to run into the garden; but suddenly
she turned and ran to him--ran to him swiftly, with her great love shining from her eyes. She
sank upon her knees beside him. She threw her arms about his neck and kissed him on the forehead.

"Oh, my dear, don't you see?" she whispered, "don't you see--don't you see?"

When they heard the judge calling from the orchard, they went back through the garden toward
the house. It was dark; the whitest asters were but gray splotches. There was no one in the
orchard; Briscoe had gone indoors. "Did you know you are to drive me into town in the phaeton
for the fireworks?" she asked.

"Fireworks?"

"Yes; the Great Harkless has come home."

Even in the darkness he could see the look the vision had given him when the barouche turned
into the Square. She smiled upon him and said, "All afternoon I was wishing I could have been
your mother."

He clasped her hand more tightly. "This wonderful world!" he cried. "Yesterday I had a doctor--a
doctor to cure me of love-sickness!"

They went on a little way. "We must hurry," she said. "I am sure they have been waiting for
us." This was true; they had.

From the dining-room came laughter and hearty voices, and the windows were bright with the
light of many lamps. By and by, they stood just outside the patch of light that fell from one
of the windows.

"Look," said Helen. "Aren't they good, dear people?"

"The beautiful people!" he answered.