The melancholy of those black days has left so long a shadow that it darkens the path of years
that have since gone by. These sad memories rise above those of smoothly grinding school days.
Perhaps my Indian nature is the moaning wind which stirs them now for their present record.
But, however tempestuous this is within me, it comes out as the low voice of a curiously colored
seashell, which is only for those ears that are bent with compassion to hear it.

VI.

FOUR STRANGE SUMMERS.

After my first three years of school, I roamed again in the Western country through four strange
summers.

During this time I seemed to hang in the heart of chaos, beyond the touch or voice of human
aid. My brother, being almost ten years my senior, did not quite understand my feelings. My
mother had never gone inside of a schoolhouse, and so she was not capable of comforting her
daughter who could read and write. Even nature seemed to have no place for me. I was neither
a wee girl nor a tall one; neither a wild Indian nor a tame one. This deplorable situation
was the effect of my brief course in the East, and the unsatisfactory "teenth" in a girl's years.

It was under these trying conditions that, one bright afternoon, as I sat restless and unhappy
in my mother's cabin, I caught the sound of the spirited step of my brother's pony on the road
which passed by our dwelling. Soon I heard the wheels of a light buckboard, and Dawée's familiar
"Ho!" to his pony. He alighted upon the bare ground in front of our house. Tying his pony to
one of the projecting corner logs of the low-roofed cottage, he stepped upon the wooden doorstep.

I met him there with a hurried greeting, and, as I passed by, he looked a quiet "What?" into
my eyes.

When he began talking with my mother, I slipped the rope from the pony's bridle. Seizing the
reins and bracing my feet against the dashboard, I wheeled around in an instant. The pony was
ever ready to try his speed. Looking backward, I saw Dawée waving his hand to me. I turned
with the curve in the road and disappeared. I followed the winding road which crawled upward
between the bases of little hillocks. Deep water-worn ditches ran parallel on either side.
A strong wind blew against my cheeks and fluttered my sleeves. The pony reached the top of
the highest hill, and began an even race on the level lands. There was nothing moving within
that great circular horizon of the Dakota prairies save the tall grasses, over which the wind
blew and rolled off in long, shadowy waves.

Within this vast wigwam of blue and green I rode reckless and insignificant. It satisfied my
small consciousness to see the white foam fly from the pony's mouth.

Suddenly, out of the earth a coyote came forth at a swinging trot that was taking the cunning
thief toward the hills and the village beyond. Upon the moment's impulse, I gave him a long
chase and a wholesome fright. As I turned away to go back to the village, the wolf sank down
upon his haunches for rest, for it was a hot summer day; and as I drove slowly homeward, I
saw his sharp nose still pointed at me, until I vanished below the margin of the hilltops.

In a little while I came in sight of my mother's house. Dawée stood in the yard, laughing at
an old warrior who was pointing his forefinger, and again waving his whole hand, toward the
hills. With his blanket drawn over one shoulder, he talked and motioned excitedly. Dawée turned
the old man by the shoulder and pointed me out to him.

"Oh, han!" (Oh, yes) the warrior muttered, and went his way. He had climbed the top of his
favorite barren hill to survey the surrounding prairies, when he spied my chase after the coyote.
His keen eyes recognized the pony and driver. At once uneasy for my safety, he had come running
to my mother's cabin to give her warning. I did not appreciate his kindly interest, for there
was an unrest gnawing at my heart.

As soon as he went away, I asked Dawée about something else.

"No, my baby sister, I cannot take you with me to the party tonight," he replied. Though I
was not far from fifteen, and I felt that before long I should enjoy all the privileges of
my tall cousin, Dawée persisted in calling me his baby sister.

That moonlight night, I cried in my mother's presence when I heard the jolly young people pass
by our cottage. They were no more young braves in blankets and eagle plumes, nor Indian maids
with prettily painted cheeks. They had gone three years to school in the East, and had become
civilized. The young men wore the white man's coat and trousers, with bright neckties. The
girls wore tight muslin dresses, with ribbons at neck and waist. At these gatherings they talked
English. I could speak English almost as well as my brother, but I was not properly dressed
to be taken along. I had no hat, no ribbons, and no close-fitting gown. Since my return from
school I had thrown away my shoes, and wore again the soft moccasins.

While Dawée was busily preparing to go I controlled my tears. But when I heard him bounding
away on his pony, I buried my face in my arms and cried hot tears.

My mother was troubled by my unhappiness. Coming to my side, she offered me the only printed
matter we had in our home. It was an Indian Bible, given her some years ago by a missionary.
She tried to console me. "Here, my child, are the white man's papers. Read a little from them,"
she said most piously.

I took it from her hand, for her sake; but my enraged spirit felt more like burning the book,
which afforded me no help, and was a perfect delusion to my mother. I did not read it, but
laid it unopened on the floor, where I sat on my feet. The dim yellow light of the braided
muslin burning in a small vessel of oil flickered and sizzled in the awful silent storm which
followed my rejection of the Bible.

Now my wrath against the fates consumed my tears before they reached my eyes. I sat stony,
with a bowed head. My mother threw a shawl over her head and shoulders, and stepped out into
the night.

After an uncertain solitude, I was suddenly aroused by a loud cry piercing the night. It was
my mother's voice wailing among the barren hills which held the bones of buried warriors. She
called aloud for her brothers' spirits to support her in her helpless misery. My fingers Grey
icy cold, as I realized that my unrestrained tears had betrayed my suffering to her, and she
was grieving for me.

Before she returned, though I knew she was on her way, for she had ceased her weeping, I extinguished
the light, and leaned my head on the window sill.

Many schemes of running away from my surroundings hovered about in my mind. A few more moons
of such a turmoil drove me away to the eastern school. I rode on the white man's iron steed,
thinking it would bring me back to my mother in a few winters, when I should be grown tall,
and there would be congenial friends awaiting me.

VII.

INCURRING MY MOTHER'S DISPLEASURE.

In the second journey to the East I had not come without some precautions. I had a secret interview
with one of our best medicine men, and when I left his wigwam I carried securely in my sleeve
a tiny bunch of magic roots. This possession assured me of friends wherever I should go. So
absolutely did I believe in its charms that I wore it through all the school routine for more
than a year. Then, before I lost my faith in the dead roots, I lost the little buckskin bag
containing all my good luck.

At the close of this second term of three years I was the proud owner of my first diploma.
The following autumn I ventured upon a college career against my mother's will.

I had written for her approval, but in her reply I found no encouragement. She called my notice
to her neighbors' children, who had completed their education in three years. They had returned
to their homes, and were then talking English with the frontier settlers. Her few words hinted
that I had better give up my slow attempt to learn the white man's ways, and be content to
roam over the prairies and find my living upon wild roots. I silenced her by deliberate disobedience.

Thus, homeless and heavy-hearted, I began anew my life among strangers.

As I hid myself in my little room in the college dormitory, away from the scornful and yet
curious eyes of the students, I pined for sympathy. Often I wept in secret, wishing I had gone
West, to be nourished by my mother's love, instead of remaining among a cold race whose hearts
were frozen hard with prejudice.

During the fall and winter seasons I scarcely had a real friend, though by that time several
of my classmates were courteous to me at a safe distance.

My mother had not yet forgiven my rudeness to her, and I had no moment for letter-writing.
By daylight and lamplight, I spun with reeds and thistles, until my hands were tired from their
weaving, the magic design which promised me the white man's respect.

At length, in the spring term, I entered an oratorical contest among the various classes. As
the day of competition approached, it did not seem possible that the event was so near at hand,
but it came. In the chapel the classes assembled together, with their invited guests. The high
platform was carpeted, and gaily festooned with college colors. A bright white light illumined
the room, and outlined clearly the great polished beams that arched the domed ceiling. The
assembled crowds filled the air with pulsating murmurs. When the hour for speaking arrived
all were hushed. But on the wall the old clock which pointed out the trying moment ticked calmly
on.

One after another I saw and heard the orators. Still, I could not realize that they longed
for the favorable decision of the judges as much as I did. Each contestant received a loud
burst of applause, and some were cheered heartily. Too soon my turn came, and I paused a moment
behind the curtains for a deep breath. After my concluding words, I heard the same applause
that the others had called out.

Upon my retreating steps, I was astounded to receive from my fellow-students a large bouquet
of roses tied with flowing ribbons. With the lovely flowers I fled from the stage. This friendly
token was a rebuke to me for the hard feelings I had borne them.

Later, the decision of the judges awarded me the first place. Then there was a mad uproar in
the hall, where my classmates sang and shouted my name at the top of their lungs; and the disappointed
students howled and brayed in fearfully dissonant tin trumpets. In this excitement, happy students
rushed forward to offer their congratulations. And I could not conceal a smile when they wished
to escort me in a procession to the students' parlor, where all were going to calm themselves.
Thanking them for the kind spirit which prompted them to make such a proposition, I walked
alone with the night to my own little room.

A few weeks afterward, I appeared as the college representative in another contest. This time
the competition was among orators from different colleges in our State. It was held at the
State capital, in one of the largest opera houses.

Here again was a strong prejudice against my people. In the evening, as the great audience
filled the house, the student bodies began warring among themselves. Fortunately, I was spared
witnessing any of the noisy wrangling before the contest began. The slurs against the Indian
that stained the lips of our opponents were already burning like a dry fever within my breast.

