Up he drove and up, to that pulsating rhythm, until the country beneath was blue and indistinct,
and London spread like a little map traced in light, like the mere model of a city near the
brim of the horizon. The southwest was a sky of sapphire over the shadowy rim of the world,
and ever as he drove upward the multitude of stars increased.

And behold! In the southward, low down and glittering swiftly nearer, were two little patches
of nebulous light. And then two more, and then a glow of swiftly driving shapes. Presently
he could count them. There were four and twenty. The first fleet of aeroplanes had come! Beyond
appeared a yet greater glow.

He swept round in a half circle, staring at this advancing fleet. It flew in a wedge-like shape,
a triangular flight of gigantic phosphorescent shapes sweeping nearer through the lower air.
He made a swift calculation of their pace, and spun the little wheel that brought the engine
forward. He touched a lever and the throbbing effort of the engine ceased. He began to fall,
fell swifter and swifter. He aimed at the apex of the wedge. He dropped like a stone through
the whistling air. It seemed scarce a second from that soaring moment before he struck the
foremost aeroplane.

No man of all that black multitude saw the coming of his fate, no man among them dreamt of
the hawk that struck downward upon him out of the sky. Those who were not limp in the agonies
of air-sickness, were craning their black necks and staring to see the filmy city that was
rising out of the haze, the rich and splendid city to which "Massa Boss" had brought their
obedient muscles. Bright teeth gleamed and the glossy faces shone. They had heard of Paris.
They knew they were to have lordly times among the poor white trash.

Suddenly Graham hit them.

He had aimed at the body of the aeroplane, but at the very last instant a better idea had flashed
into his mind. He twisted about and struck near the edge of the starboard wing with all his
accumulated weight. He was jerked back as he struck. His prow went gliding across its smooth
expanse towards the rim. He felt the forward rush of the huge fabric sweeping him and his monoplane
along with it, and for a moment that seemed an age he could not tell what was happening. He
heard a thousand throats yelling, and perceived that his machine was balanced on the edge of
the gigantic float, and driving down, down; glanced over his shoulder and saw the backbone
of the aeroplane and the opposite float swaying up. He had a vision through the ribs of sliding
chairs, staring faces, and hands clutching at the tilting guide bars. The fenestrations in
the further float flashed open as the aeronaut tried to right her. Beyond, he saw a second
aeroplane leaping steeply to escape the whirl of its heeling fellow. The broad area of swaying
wings seemed to jerk upward. He felt he had dropped clear, that the monstrous fabric, clean
overturned, hung like a sloping wall above him.

He did not clearly understand that he had struck the side float of the aeroplane and slipped
off, but he perceived that he was flying free on the down glide and rapidly nearing earth.
What had he done? His heart throbbed like a noisy engine in his throat and for a perilous instant
he could not move his levers because of the paralysis of his hands. He wrenched the levers
to throw his engine back, fought for two seconds against the weight of it, felt himself righting,
driving horizontally, set the engine beating again.

He looked upward and saw two aeroplanes glide shouting far overhead, looked back, and saw the
main body of the fleet opening out and rushing upward and outward; saw the one he had struck
fall edgewise on and strike like a gigantic knife-blade along the wind-wheels below it.

He put down his stern and looked again. He drove up heedless of his direction as he watched.
He saw the wind-vanes give, saw the huge fabric strike the earth, saw its downward vanes crumple
with the weight of its descent, and then the whole mass turned over and smashed, upside down,
upon the sloping wheels. Then from the heaving wreckage a thin tongue of white fire licked
up towards the zenith. He was aware of a huge mass flying through the air towards him, and
turned upwards just in time to escape the charge--if it was a charge--of a second aeroplane.
It whirled by below, sucked him down a fathom, and nearly turned him over in the gust of its
close passage.

He became aware of three others rushing towards him, aware of the urgent necessity of beating
above them. Aeroplanes were all about him, circling wildly to avoid him, as it seemed. They
drove past him, above, below, eastward and westward. Far away to the westward was the sound
of a collision, and two falling flares. Far away to the southward a second squadron was coming.
Steadily he beat upward. Presently all the aeroplanes were below him, but for a moment he doubted
the height he had of them, and did not swoop again. And then he came down upon a second victim
and all its load of soldiers saw him coming. The big machine heeled and swayed as the fear-maddened
men scrambled to the stern for their weapons. A score of bullets sung through the air, and
there flashed a star in the thick glass wind-screen that protected him. The aeroplane slowed
and dropped to foil his stroke, and dropped too low. Just in time he saw the wind-wheels of
Bromley hill rushing up towards him, and spun about and up as the aeroplane he had chased crashed
among them. All its voices wove into a felt of yelling. The great fabric seemed to be standing
on end for a second among the heeling and splintering vans, and then it flew to pieces. Huge
splinters came flying through the air, its engines burst like shells. A hot rush of flame shot
overhead into the darkling sky.

"Two!" he cried, with a bomb from overhead bursting as it fell, and forthwith he was beating
up again. A glorious exhilaration possessed him now, a giant activity. His troubles about humanity,
about his inadequacy, were gone for ever. He was a man in battle rejoicing in his power. Aeroplanes
seemed radiating from him in every direction, intent only upon avoiding him, the yelling of
their packed passengers came in short gusts as they swept by. He chose his third quarry, struck
hastily and did but turn it on edge. It escaped him, to smash against the tall cliff of London
wall. Flying from that impact he skimmed the darkling ground so nearly he could see a frightened
rabbit bolting up a slope. He jerked up steeply, and found himself driving over south London
with the air about him vacant. To the right of him a wild riot of signal rockets from the Ostrogites
banged tumultuously in the sky. To the south the wreckage of half a dozen air ships flamed,
and east and west and north they fled before him. They drove away to the east and north, and
went about in the south, for they could not pause in the air. In their present confusion any
attempt at evolution would have meant disastrous collisions.

