"My gracious Lord," said Jaquez, "if it please your Highness to hear me; Diego and I, according
to your Highness's orders, went to search for the young Lady; but being comprehensive that
we might meet the ghost of my young Lord, your Highness's son, God rest his soul, as he has
not received Christian burial--"

"Sot!" cried Manfred in a rage; "is it only a ghost, then, that thou hast seen?"

"Oh! worse! worse! my Lord," cried Diego:  "I had rather have seen ten whole ghosts."

"Grant me patience!" said Manfred; "these blockheads distract me. Out of my sight, Diego! and
thou, Jaquez, tell me in one word, art thou sober? art thou raving? thou wast wont to have
some sense: has the other sot frightened himself and thee too?  Speak; what is it he fancies
he has seen?"

"Why, my Lord," replied Jaquez, trembling, "I was going to tell your Highness, that since the
calamitous misfortune of my young Lord, God rest his precious soul! not one of us your Highness's
faithful servants--indeed we are, my Lord, though poor men--I say, not one of us has dared
to set a foot about the castle, but two together:  so Diego and I, thinking that my young Lady
might be in the great gallery, went up there to look for her, and tell her your Highness wanted
something to impart to her."

"O blundering fools!" cried Manfred; "and in the meantime, she has made her escape, because
you were afraid of goblins!--Why, thou knave! she left me in the gallery; I came from thence
myself."

"For all that, she may be there still for aught I know," said Jaquez; "but the devil shall
have me before I seek her there again- -poor Diego!  I do not believe he will ever recover it."

"Recover what?" said Manfred; "am I never to learn what it is has terrified these rascals?--but
I lose my time; follow me, slave; I will see if she is in the gallery."

"For Heaven's sake, my dear, good Lord," cried Jaquez, "do not go to the gallery.  Satan himself
I believe is in the chamber next to the gallery."

Manfred, who hitherto had treated the terror of his servants as an idle panic, was struck at
this new circumstance.  He recollected the apparition of the portrait, and the sudden closing
of the door at the end of the gallery.  His voice faltered, and he asked with disorder -

"What is in the great chamber?"

"My Lord," said Jaquez, "when Diego and I came into the gallery, he went first, for he said
he had more courage than I.  So when we came into the gallery we found nobody.  We looked under
every bench and stool; and still we found nobody."

"Were all the pictures in their places?" said Manfred.

"Yes, my Lord," answered Jaquez; "but we did not think of looking behind them."

"Well, well!" said Manfred; "proceed."

"When we came to the door of the great chamber," continued Jaquez, "we found it shut."

"And could not you open it?" said Manfred.

"Oh! yes, my Lord; would to Heaven we had not!" replied he--"nay, it was not I neither; it
was Diego:  he was grown foolhardy, and would go on, though I advised him not--if ever I open
a door that is shut again--"

"Trifle not," said Manfred, shuddering, "but tell me what you saw in the great chamber on opening
the door."

"I! my Lord!" said Jaquez; "I was behind Diego; but I heard the noise."

"Jaquez," said Manfred, in a solemn tone of voice; "tell me, I adjure thee by the souls of
my ancestors, what was it thou sawest? what was it thou heardest?"

