I never knew a man yet who could give himself to the pleasures of the turf for a long reach
of time, and not be battered in morals. They hook up their spanking team, and put on their
sporting-cap, and light their cigar, and take the reins, and dash down the road to perdition.
The great day at Saratoga, and Long Branch, and Cape May, and nearly all the other watering-places,
is the day of the races. The hotels are thronged, nearly every kind of equipage is taken up
at an almost fabulous price, and there are many respectable people mingling with jockeys, and
gamblers, and libertines, and foul-mouthed men and flashy women. The bar-tender stirs up the
brandy-smash. The bets run high. The greenhorns, supposing all is fair, put in their money
soon enough to lose it. Three weeks before the race takes place the struggle is decided, and
the men in the secret know on which steed to bet their money. The two men on the horses riding
around long before arranged who shall beat.

Leaning from the stand or from the carriage are men and women so absorbed in the struggle of
bone and muscle and mettle that they make a grand harvest for the pickpockets, who carry off
the pocket-books and portemonnaies. Men looking on see only two horses with two riders flying
around the ring; but there is many a man on that stand whose honor and domestic happiness and
fortune--white mane, white foot, white flank--are in the ring, racing with inebriety, and with
fraud, and with profanity, and with ruin--black neck, black foot, black flank. Neck and neck
they go in that moral Epsom.

Ah, my friends, have nothing to do with horse-racing dissipations this summer. Long ago the
English government got through looking to the turf for the dragoon and light-cavalry horse.
They found the turf depreciates the stock, and it is yet worse for men. Thomas Hughes, the
member of parliament and the author, known all the world over, hearing that a new turf enterprise
was being started in this country, wrote a letter, in which he said: "Heaven help you, then;
for of all the cankers of our old civilization there is nothing in this country approaching
in unblushing meanness, in rascality holding its head high, to this belauded institution of
the British turf." Another famous sportsman writes: "How many fine domains have been shared
among these hosts of rapacious sharks during the last two hundred years; and unless the system
be altered, how many more are doomed to fall into the same gulf!" The Duke of Hamilton, through
his horse-racing proclivities, in three years got through his entire fortune of £70,000, and
I will say that some of you are being undermined by it. With the bull-fights of Spain and the
bear-baitings of the pit may the Lord God annihilate the infamous and accursed horse-racing
of England and America.

III. I go further, and speak of another temptation that hovers over the watering-places; and
this is the temptation to sacrifice physical strength. The modern Bethesda was intended to
recuperate the physical health; and yet how many come from the watering-places, their health
absolutely destroyed! New York and Brooklyn idiots boasting of having imbibed twenty glasses
of Congress water before breakfast. Families accustomed to going to bed at ten o'clock at night
gossiping until one or two o'clock in the morning. Dyspeptics, usually very cautious about
their health, mingling ice-creams, and lemons, and lobster-salads, and cocoa-nuts, until the
gastric juices lift up all their voices of lamentation and protest. Delicate women and brainless
young men chassezing themselves into vertigo and catalepsy. Thousands of men and women coming
back from our watering-places in the autumn with the foundations laid for ailments that will
last them all their life long. You know as well as I do that this is the simple truth.

In the summer you say to your good health: "Good-bye, I am going to have a good time for a
little while. I will be very glad to see you again in the autumn." Then in the autumn, when
you are hard at work in your office, or store, or shop, or counting-room, Good Health will
come and say: "Good-bye, I am going." You say: "Where are you going?" "Oh," says Good Health,
"I am going to take a vacation!" It is a poor rule that will not work both ways, and your good
health will leave you choleric and splenetic and exhausted. You coquetted with your good health
in the summer-time, and your good health is coquetting with you in the winter-time. A fragment
of Paul's charge to the jailer would be an appropriate inscription for the hotel-register in
every watering-place: "Do thyself no harm."

IV. Another temptation hovering around the watering-place is to the formation of hasty and
life-long alliances. The watering-places are responsible for more of the domestic infelicities
of this country than all the other things combined. Society is so artificial there that no
sure judgment of character can be formed. Those who form companionships amid such circumstances
go into a lottery where there are twenty blanks to one prize. In the severe tug of life you
want more than glitter and splash. Life is not a ball-room where the music decides the step,
and bow and prance and graceful swing of long trail can make up for strong common sense. You
might as well go among the gayly painted yachts of a summer regatta to find war vessels as
to go among the light spray of the summer watering-place to find character that can stand the
test of the great struggle of human life. Ah, in the battle of life you want a stronger weapon
than a lace fan or a croquet mallet! The load of life is so heavy that in order to draw it,
you want a team stronger than one made up of a masculine grasshopper and a feminine butterfly.

If there is any man in the community that excites my contempt, and that ought to excite the
contempt of every man and woman, it is the soft-handed, soft-headed fop, who, perfumed until
the air is actually sick, spends his summer in taking killing attitudes, and waving sentimental
adieus, and talking infinitesimal nothings, and finding his heaven in the set of a lavender
kid-glove. Boots as tight as an Inquisition, two hours of consummate skill exhibited in the
tie of a flaming cravat, his conversation made up of "Ah's" and "Oh's" and "He-hee's." It would
take five hundred of them stewed down to make a teaspoonful of calves-foot jelly. There is
only one counterpart to such a man as that, and that is the frothy young woman at the watering-place,
her conversation made up of French moonshine; what she has on her head only equaled by what
she has on her back; useless ever since she was born, and to be useless until she is dead:
and what they will do with her in the next world I do not know, except to set her upon the
banks of the River Life for eternity to look sweet! God intends us to admire music and fair
faces and graceful step, but amid the heartlessness and the inflation and the fantastic influences
of our modern watering-places, beware how you make life-long covenants!

V. Another temptation that will hover over the watering-place is that of baneful literature.
Almost every one starting off for the summer takes some reading matter. It is a book out of
the library or off the bookstand, or bought of the boy hawking books through the cars. I really
believe there is more pestiferous trash read among the intelligent classes in July and August
than in all the other ten months of the year. Men and women who at home would not be satisfied
with a book that was not really sensible, I found sitting on hotel-piazzas or under the trees
reading books the index of which would make them blush if they knew that you knew what the
book was.

"Oh," they say, "you must have intellectual recreation!" Yes. There is no need that you take
along into a watering-place "Hamilton's Metaphysics" or some thunderous discourse on the eternal
decrees, or "Faraday's Philosophy." There are many easy books that are good. You might as well
say: "I propose now to give a little rest to my digestive organs; and, instead of eating heavy
meat and vegetables, I will for a little while take lighter food--a little strychnine and a
few grains of ratsbane." Literary poison in August is as bad as literary poison in December.
Mark that. Do not let the frogs and the lice of a corrupt printing-press jump and crawl into
your Saratoga trunk or White Mountain valise.

Would it not be an awful thing for you to be struck with lightning some day when you had in
your hand one of these paper-covered romances--the hero a Parisian roué, the heroine an unprincipled
flirt--chapters in the book that you would not read to your children at the rate of $100 a
line? Throw out all that stuff from your summer baggage. Are there not good books that are
easy to read--books of entertaining travel, books of congenial history, books of pure fun,
books of poetry ringing with merry canto, books of fine engravings, books that will rest the
mind as well as purify the heart and elevate the whole life? My hearers, there will not be
an hour between this and the day of your death when you can afford to read a book lacking in
moral principle.

VI. Another temptation hovering all around our watering-places is the intoxicating beverage.
I am told that it is becoming more and more fashionable for woman to drink. I care not how
well a woman may dress, if she has taken enough of wine to flush her cheek and put glassiness
on her eyes, she is intoxicated. She may be handed into a $2500 carriage, and have diamonds
enough to confound the Tiffanys--she is intoxicated. She may be a graduate of Packer Institute,
and the daughter of some man in danger of being nominated for the Presidency--she is drunk.
You may have a larger vocabulary than I have, and you may say in regard to her that she is
"convivial," or she is "merry," or she is "festive," or she is "exhilarated," but you can not
with all your garlands of verbiage cover up the plain fact that it is an old-fashioned case
of drunk.

Now, the watering-places are full of temptations to men and women to tipple. At the close of
the tenpin or billiard-game they tipple. At the close of the cotillon they tipple. Seated on
the piazza cooling themselves off they tipple. The tinged glasses come around with bright straws,
and they tipple. First they take "light wines," as they call them; but "light wines" are heavy
enough to debase the appetite. There is not a very long road between champagne at $5 a bottle
and whiskey at five cents a glass.

Satan has three or four grades down which he takes men to destruction. One man he takes up,
and through one spree pitches him into eternal darkness. That is a rare case. Very seldom,
indeed, can you find a man who will be such a fool as that.

When a man goes down to destruction Satan brings him to a plane. It is almost a level. The
depression is so slight that you can hardly see it. The man does not actually know that he
is on the down grade, and it tips only a little toward darkness--just a little. And the first
mile it is claret, and the second mile it is sherry, and the third mile it is punch, and the
fourth mile it is ale, and the fifth mile it is porter, and the sixth mile it is brandy, and
then it gets steeper and steeper and steeper, and the man gets frightened and says, "Oh, let
me get off!" "No," says the conductor, "this is an express train, and it does not stop until
it gets to the Grand Central Depot at Smashupton." At the last it biteth like a serpent and
stingeth like an adder." And if any young man in my congregation should get astray this summer
in this direction it will not be because I have not given him fair warning.

My friends, whether you tarry at home--which will be quite as safe and perhaps quite as comfortable--or
go into the country, arm yourself against temptation. The grace of God is the only safe shelter,
whether in town or country. There are watering-places accessible to all of us. You can not
open a book of the Bible without finding out some such watering-place. Fountains open for sin
and uncleanliness; wells of salvation; streams from Lebanon; a flood struck out of the rock
by Moses; fountains in the wilderness discovered by Hagar; water to drink and water to bathe
in; the river of God, which is full of water; water of which if a man drink he shall never
thirst; wells of water in the Valley of Baca; living fountains of water; a pure river of water
as clear as crystal from under the throne of God.

These are watering-places accessible to all of us. We do not have a laborious packing up before
we start--only the throwing away of our transgressions. No expensive hotel bills to pay; it
is "without money and without price." No long and dirty travel before we get there; it is only
one step away. California in five minutes. I walked around and saw ten fountains, all bubbling
up, and they were all different. And in five minutes I can get through this Bible parterre
and find you fifty bright, sparkling fountains bubbling up into eternal life.

A chemist will go to one of these summer watering-places and take the water and analyze it
and tell you that it contains so much of iron, and so much of soda, and so much of lime, and
so much of magnesia. I come to this Gospel well, this living fountain and analyze the water,
and I find that its ingredients are peace, pardon, forgiveness, hope, comfort, life, heaven.
"Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye" to this watering-place!

Crowd around this Bethesda this morning! Oh, you sick, you lame, you troubled, you dying--crowd
around this Bethesda! Step in it! Oh, step in it! The angel of the covenant this morning stirs
the water. Why do you not step in it? Some of you are too weak to take a step in that direction.
Then we take you up in the arms of our closing prayer and plunge you clean under the wave,
hoping that the cure may be as sudden and as radical as with Captain Naaman, who, blotched
and carbuncled, stepped into the Jordan, and after the seventh dive came up, his skin roseate-complexioned
as the flesh of a little child.

THE BANISHED QUEEN.

We stand amid the palaces of Shushan. The pinnacles are aflame with the morning light. The
columns rise festooned and wreathed, the wealth of empires flashing from the grooves; the ceilings
adorned with images of bird and beast, and scenes of prowess and conquest. The walls are hung
with shields, and emblazoned until it seems that the whole round of splendors is exhausted.
Each arch is a mighty leaf of architectural achievement. Golden stars shining down on glowing
arabesque. Hangings of embroidered work in which mingle the blueness of the sky, the greenness
of the grass, and the whiteness of the sea-foam. Tapestries hung on silver rings, wedding together
the pillars of marble. Pavilions reaching out in every direction. These for repose, filled
with luxuriant couches, in which weary limbs sink until all fatigue is submerged. Those for
carousal, where kings drink down a kingdom at one swallow.

Amazing spectacle!

Light of silver dripping down over stairs of ivory on shields of gold. Floors of stained marble,
sunset red and night black, and inlaid with gleaming pearl.

In connection with this palace there is a garden, where the mighty men of foreign lands are
seated at a banquet. Under the spread of oak and linden and acacia the tables are arranged.
The breath of honeysuckle and frankincense fills the air. Fountains leap up into the light,
the spray struck through with rainbows falling in crystalline baptism upon flowering shrubs--then
rolling down through channels of marble, and widening out here and there into pools swirling
with the finny tribes of foreign aquariums, bordered with scarlet anemones, hypericums, and
many-colored ranunculi.

Meats of rarest bird and beast smoking up amid wreaths of aromatics. The vases filled with
apricots and almonds. The baskets piled up with apricots and figs and oranges and pomegranates.
Melons tastefully twined with leaves of acacia. The bright waters of Eulæus filling the urns
and dropping outside the rim in flashing beads amid the traceries. Wine from the royal vats
of Ispahan and Shiraz, in bottles of tinged shell, and lily-shaped cups of silver, and flagons
and tankards of solid gold. The music rises higher, and the revelry breaks out into wilder
transport, and the wine has flushed the cheek and touched the brain, and louder than all other
voices are the hiccough of the inebriates, the gabble of fools, and the song of the drunkards.

In another part of the palace, Queen Vashti is entertaining the princesses of Persia at a banquet.
Drunken Ahasuerus says to his servants, "You go out and fetch Vashti from, that banquet with
the women, and bring her to this banquet with the men, and let me display her beauty." The
servants immediately start to obey the king's command; but there was a rule in Oriental society
that no woman might appear in public without having her face veiled. Yet here was a mandate
that no one dare dispute, demanding that Vashti come in unveiled before the multitude. However,
there was in Vashti's soul a principle more regal than Ahasuerus, more brilliant than the gold
of Shushan, of more wealth than the realm of Persia, which commanded her to disobey this order
of the king; and so all the righteousness and holiness and modesty of her nature rise up into
one sublime refusal. She says, "I will not go into the banquet unveiled." Ahasuerus was infuriate;
and Vashti, robbed of her position and her estate, is driven forth in poverty and ruin to suffer
the scorn of a nation, and yet to receive the applause of after generations, who shall rise
up to admire this martyr to kingly insolence. Well, the last vestige of that feast is gone;
the last garland has faded; the last arch has fallen; the last tankard has been destroyed;
and Shushan is a ruin; but as long as the world stands there will be multitudes of men and
women, familiar with the Bible, who will come into this picture-gallery of God and admire the
divine portrait of Vashti the queen, Vashti the veiled, Vashti the sacrifice, Vashti the silent.

I. In the first place, I want you to look upon Vashti the queen. A blue ribbon, rayed with
white, drawn around her forehead, indicated her queenly position. It was no small honor to
be queen in such a realm as that. Hark to the rustle of her robes! See the blaze of her jewels!
And yet, my friends, it is not necessary to have place and regal robe in order to be queenly.
When I see a woman with stout faith in God, putting her foot upon all meanness and selfishness
and godless display, going right forward to serve Christ and the race by a grand and a glorious
service, I say: "That woman is a queen," and the ranks of heaven look over the battlements
upon the coronation; and whether she comes up from the shanty on the commons or the mansion
of the fashionable square, I greet her with the shout, "All hail, Queen Vashti!"

What glory was there on the brow of Mary of Scotland, or Elizabeth of England, or Margaret
of France, or Catherine of Russia, compared with the worth of some of our Christian mothers,
many of them gone into glory?--or of that woman mentioned in the Scriptures, who put her all
into the Lord's treasury?--or of Jephtha's daughter, who made a demonstration of unselfish
patriotism?--or of Abigail, who rescued the herds and flocks of her husband?--or of Ruth, who
toiled under a tropical sun for poor, old, helpless Naomi?--or of Florence Nightingale, who
went at midnight to stanch the battle wounds of the Crimea?--or of Mrs. Adoniram Judson, who
kindled the lights of salvation amid the darkness of Burmah?--or of Mrs. Hemans, who poured
out her holy soul in words which will forever be associated with hunter's horn, and captive's
chain, and bridal hour, and lute's throb, and curfew's knell at the dying day?--and scores
and hundreds of women, unknown on earth, who have given water to the thirsty, and bread to
the hungry, and medicine to the sick, and smiles to the discouraged--their footsteps heard
along dark lane and in government hospital, and in almshouse corridor, and by prison gate?
There may be no royal robe--there may be no palatial surroundings. She does not need them;
for all charitable men will unite with the crackling lips of fever-struck hospital and plague-blotched
lazaretto in greeting her as she passes: "Hail! Hail! Queen Vashti!"

II. Again, I want you to consider Vashti the veiled. Had she appeared before Ahasuerus and
his court on that day with her face uncovered she would have shocked all the delicacies of
Oriental society, and the very men who in their intoxication demanded that she come, in their
sober moments would have despised her. As some flowers seem to thrive best in the dark lane
and in the shadow, and where the sun does not seem to reach them, so God appoints to most womanly
natures a retiring and unobtrusive spirit.

God once in awhile does call an Isabella to a throne, or a Miriam to strike the timbrel at
the front of a host, or a Marie Antoinette to quell a French mob, or a Deborah to stand at
the front of an armed battalion, crying out, "Up! Up! This is the day in which the Lord will
deliver Sisera into thy hands." And when the women are called to such out-door work and to
such heroic positions, God prepares them for it; and they have iron in their soul, and lightnings
in their eye, and whirlwinds in their breath, and the borrowed strength of the Lord Omnipotent
in their right arm. They walk through furnaces as though they were hedges of wild-flowers,
and cross seas as though they were shimmering sapphire; and all the harpies of hell down to
their dungeon at the stamp of womanly indignation.

But these are the exceptions. Generally, Dorcas would rather make a garment for the poor boy;
Rebecca would rather fill the trough for the camels; Hannah would rather make a coat for Samuel;
the Hebrew maid would rather give a prescription for Naaman's leprosy; the woman of Sarepta
would rather gather a few sticks to cook a meal for famished Elijah; Phebe would rather carry
a letter for the inspired apostle; Mother Lois would rather educate Timothy in the Scriptures.
When I see a woman going about her daily duty, with cheerful dignity presiding at the table,
with kind and gentle, but firm discipline presiding in the nursery, going out into the world
without any blast of trumpets, following in the footsteps of Him who went about doing good--I
say: "This is Vashti with a veil on."

But when I see a woman of unblushing boldness, loud-voiced, with a tongue of infinite clitter-clatter,
with arrogant look, passing through the streets with the step of a walking-beam, gayly arrayed
in a very hurricane of millinery, I cry out: "Vashti has lost her veil!" When I see a woman
struggling for political preferment--trying to force her way on up to the ballot-box, amid
the masculine demagogues who stand, with swollen fists and bloodshot eyes and pestiferous breath,
to guard the polls--wanting to go through the loaferism and the defilement of popular sovereigns,
who crawl up from the saloons greasy and foul and vermin-covered, to decide questions of justice
and order and civilization--when I see a woman, I say, who wants to press through all that
horrible scum to get to the ballot-box, I say: "Ah, what a pity! Vashti has lost her veil!"

When I see a woman of comely features, and of adroitness of intellect, and endowed with all
that the schools can do for one, and of high social position, yet moving in society with superciliousness
and hauteur, as though she would have people know their place, and with an undefined combination
of giggle and strut and rhodomontade, endowed with allopathic quantities of talk, but only
homeopathic infinitesimals of sense, the terror of dry-goods clerks and railroad conductors,
discoverers of significant meanings in plain conversation, prodigies of badinage and innuendo--I
say: "Vashti has lost her veil."

III. Again, I want you this morning to consider Vashti the sacrifice. Who is this that I see
coming out of that palace gate of Shushan? It seems to me that I have seen her before. She
comes homeless, houseless, friendless, trudging along with a broken heart. Who is she? It is
Vashti the sacrifice. Oh! what a change it was from regal position to a wayfarer's crust! A
little while ago, approved and sought for; now, none so poor as to acknowledge her acquaintanceship.
Vashti the sacrifice!

Ah! you and I have seen it many a time. Here is a home empalaced with beauty. All that refinement
and books and wealth can do for that home has been done; but Ahasuerus, the husband and the
father, is taking hold on paths of sin. He is gradually going down. After awhile he will flounder
and struggle like a wild beast in the hunter's net--further away from God, further away from
the right. Soon the bright apparel of the children will turn to rags; soon the household song
will become the sobbing of a broken heart. The old story over again. Brutal Centaurs breaking
up the marriage feast of Lapithæ. The house full of outrage and cruelty and abomination, while
trudging forth from the palace gate are Vashti and her children. There are homes represented
in this house this morning that are in danger of such breaking-up. Oh, Ahasuerus! that you
should stand in a home, by a dissipated life destroying the peace and comfort of that home.
God forbid that your children should ever have to wring their hands, and have people point
their finger at them as they pass down the street, and say, "There goes a drunkard's child."
God forbid that the little feet should ever have to trudge the path of poverty and wretchedness!
God forbid that any evil spirit born of the wine-cup or the brandy-glass should come forth
and uproot that garden, and with a lasting, blistering, all-consuming curse, shut forever the
palace gate against Vashti and the children.

One night during the war I went to Hagerstown to look at the army, and I stood on a hill-top
and looked down upon them. I saw the camp-fires all through the valleys and all over the hills.
It was a weird spectacle, those camp-fires, and I stood and watched them; and the soldiers
who were gathered around them were, no doubt, talking of their homes, and of the long march
they had taken, and of the battles they were to fight; but after awhile I saw these camp-fires
begin to lower; and they continued to lower, until they were all gone out, and the army slept.
It was imposing when I saw the camp-fires; it was imposing in the darkness when I thought of
that great host asleep. Well, God looks down from heaven, and He sees the fireside of Christendom
and the loved ones gathered around these firesides. These are the camp-fires where we warm
ourselves at the close of day, and talk over the battles of life we have fought and the battles
that are yet to come. God grant that when at last these fires begin to go out, and continue
to lower until finally they are extinguished, and the ashes of consumed hopes strew the hearth
of the old homestead, it may be because we have

    "Gone to sleep that last long sleep,
    From which none ever wake to weep."

Now we are an army on the march of life. Then we shall be an army bivouacked in the tent of
the grave.

IV. Once more: I want you to look at Vashti the silent. You do not hear any outcry from this
woman as she goes forth from the palace gate. From the very dignity of her nature, you know
there will be no vociferation. Sometimes in life it is necessary to make a retort; sometimes
in life it is necessary to resist; but there are crises when the most triumphant thing to do
is to keep silence. The philosopher, confident in his newly discovered principle, waited for
the coming of more intelligent generations, willing that men should laugh at the lightning-rod
and cotton-gin and steam-boat--waiting for long years through the scoffing of philosophical
schools, in grand and magnificent silence.

Galileo, condemned by mathematicians and monks and cardinals, caricatured everywhere, yet waiting
and watching with his telescope to see the coming up of stellar reenforcements, when the stars
in their courses would fight for the Copernican system; then sitting down in complete blindness
and deafness to wait for the coming on of the generations who would build his monument and
bow at his grave. The reformer, execrated by his contemporaries, fastened in a pillory, the
slow fires of public contempt burning under him, ground under the cylinders of the printing-press,
yet calmly waiting for the day when purity of soul and heroism of character will get the sanction
of earth and the plaudits of heaven.

Affliction enduring without any complaint the sharpness of the pang, and the violence of the
storm, and the heft of the chain, and the darkness of the night--waiting until a Divine hand
shall be put forth to soothe the pang, and hush the storm, and release the captive. A wife
abused, persecuted, and a perpetual exile from every earthly comfort--waiting, waiting, until
the Lord shall gather up His dear children in a heavenly home, and no poor Vashti will ever
be thrust out from the palace gate.

Jesus, in silence and answering not a word, drinking the gall, bearing the cross, in prospect
of the rapturous consummation when

    "Angels thronged their chariot wheel,
      And bore Him to His throne,
    Then swept their golden harps and sung,
      'The glorious work is done!'" My sermon
converges into the one absorbing hope that none of you may be shut out
of the palace gate of heaven. You can endure the hardships, and the
privations, and the cruelties, and the misfortunes of this life if you
can only gain admission there. Through the blood of the everlasting
covenant you go through those gates, or never go at all. God forbid
that you should at last be banished from the society of angels, and
banished from the companionship of your glorified kindred, and
banished forever. Through the rich grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, may
you be enabled to imitate the example of Rachel, and Hannah, and
Abigail, and Deborah, and Mary, and Esther, and Vashti.

THE DAY WE LIVE IN.

    "Who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a
    time as this?"--ESTHER iv. 14.

Esther the beautiful was the wife of Ahasuerus the abominable. The time had come for her to
present a petition to her infamous husband in behalf of the Jewish nation, to which she had
once belonged. She was afraid to undertake the work, lest she should lose her own life; but
her uncle, Mordecai, who had brought her up, encouraged her with the suggestion that probably
she had been raised up of God for that peculiar mission. "Who knoweth whether thou art come
to the kingdom for such a time as this?" Esther had her God-appointed work; you and I have
ours. It is my business to tell you what style of men and women you ought to be in order that
you meet the demand of the age in which God has cast your lot. If you have come expecting to
hear abstractions discussed, or dry technicalities of religion glorified, you have come to
the wrong church; but if you really would like to know what this age has a right to expect
of you as Christian men and women, then I am ready in the Lord's name to look you in the face.
When two armies have rushed into battle the officers of either army do not want a philosophical
discussion about the chemical properties of human blood or the nature of gunpowder; they want
some one to man the batteries and swab out the guns. And now, when all the forces of light
and darkness, of heaven and hell, have plunged into the fight, it is no time to give ourselves
to the definitions and formulas and technicalities and conventionalities of religion.

What we want is practical, earnest, concentrated, enthusiastic, and triumphant help.

I. In the first place, in order to meet the special demand of this age, you need to be an unmistakably
aggressive Christian. Of half-and-half Christians we do not want any more. The Church of Jesus
Christ will be better without ten thousand of them. They are the chief obstacle to the Church's
advancement. I am speaking of another kind of Christian. All the appliances for your becoming
an earnest Christian are at your hand, and there is a straight path for you into the broad
daylight of God's forgiveness. You may have come into this Tabernacle the bondsmen of the world,
and yet before you go out of these doors you may become princes of the Lord God Almighty. You
remember what excitement there was in this country, years ago, when the Prince of Wales came
here--how the people rushed out by hundreds of thousands to see him. Why? Because they expected
that some day he would sit upon the throne of England. But what was all that honor compared
with the honor to which God calls you--to be sons and daughters of the Lord Almighty; yea,
to be queens and kings unto God? "They shall reign with Him forever and forever."

But, my friends, you need to be aggressive Christians, and not like those persons who spend
their lives in hugging their Christian graces and wondering why they do not make any progress.
How much robustness of health would a man have if he hid himself in a dark closet? A great
deal of the piety of the day is too exclusive. It hides itself. It needs more fresh air, more
out-door exercise. There are many Christians who are giving their entire life to self-examination.
They are feeling their pulses to see what is the condition of their spiritual health. How long
would a man have robust physical health if he kept all the days and weeks and months and years
of his life feeling his pulse instead of going out into active, earnest, every-day work?

I was once amid the wonderful, bewitching cactus growths of North Carolina. I never was more
bewildered with the beauty of flowers, and yet when I would take up one of these cactuses and
pull the leaves apart, the beauty was all gone. You could hardly tell that it had ever been
a flower. And there are a great many Christian people in this day just pulling apart their
Christian experiences to see what there is in them, and there is nothing left in them. This
style of self-examination is a damage instead of an advantage to their Christian character.
I remember when I was a boy I used to have a small piece in the garden that I called my own,
and I planted corn there, and every few days I would pull it up to see how fast it was growing.
Now, there are a great many Christian people in this day whose self-examination merely amounts
to the pulling up of that which they only yesterday or the day before planted.

