The mere twirling was quite enough for Lucy at first, but soon she liked to look at what was
on them.  One she thought more entertaining than the other.  It was covered with wonderful
creatures: one bear was fastened by his long tail to the pole; another bigger one was trotting
round; a snake was coiling about anywhere; a lady stood disconsolate against a rock; another
sat in a chair; a giant sprawled with a club in one hand and a lion's skin in the other; a
big dog and a little dog stood on their hind legs; a lion seemed just about to spring on a
young maiden's head; and all were thickly spotted over, just as if they had Lucy's rash, with
stars big and little: and still more strange, her brothers declared these were the stars in
the sky, and this was the way people found their road at sea; but if Lucy asked how, they always
said she was not big enough to understand, and it had occurred to Lucy to ask whether the truth
was not that they were not big enough to explain.

The other globe was all in pale green, with pink and yellow outlines on it, and quantities
of names.  Lucy had had to learn some of these names for her geography, and she rather kept
out of the way of looking at it first, till she had really grown tired of all the odd men and
women and creatures upon the celestial sphere; but by and by she began to roll the other by
way of variety.

CHAPTER II.

VISITORS FROM THE SOUTH SEAS.

"Miss Lucy, you're as quiet as a mouse.  Not in any mischief?" said Mrs. Bunker, looking into
the museum; "why, what are you doing there?"

"I'm looking at the great big globe, that Uncle Joe said I might touch," said Lucy.  "Here
are all the names just like my lesson-book at home: Europe, Africa, and America."

"Why, bless the child! where else should they be?  There are all them oceans and seas besides
that I've crossed over, many's the time, with poor Ben Bunker, who was last seen off Cape Hatteras."

"What, all these great green places, with Atlantic and Pacific on them; you don't really mean
that you've sailed over them!  I should like to make an ant do it on a sunflower seed!  How
could you, Mother Bunch?  You are not small enough."

"Ho! ho!" said the housekeeper, laughing; "does the child think I sailed on that very globe there?"

"I know one learns names," said Lucy; "but is it real?"

"Real!  Why, Missie, don't you see it's a sort of a picture?  There's your photograph now,
it's not as big as you, but it shows you; and so a chart, or a map, or a globe, is just a picture
of the shapes of the coast-line of the land and the sea, and the rivers in them, and mountains,
and the like.  Look here!"  And she made Lucy stand on a chair and look at a map of her own
town that was hanging against the wall, showing her all the chief buildings, the churches,
streets, the town hall, and at last helping her find her own Papa's house.

When Lucy had traced all the corners she had to turn in going from home to Uncle Joe's, and
had even found little frizzles for the five maple trees before the Parsonage, she understood
that the map was a small picture of the situation of the buildings in the town, and thought
she could find her way to some new place if she studied it well.

Then Mrs. Bunker showed her a big map of the whole country, and there Lucy found the river,
and the roads, and the names of the villages near, as she had seen or heard of them; and she
began to understand that a map or globe really brought distant places into an exceedingly small
picture, and that where she saw a name and a spot she was to think of houses and churches;
that a branching black line was a flowing river full of water; a curve in, a pretty bay shut
in with rocks and hills; a point jutting out, generally a steep rock with a lighthouse on it.

"And all these places are countries, Bunchey, are they, with fields and houses like ours?"

"Houses, yes, and fields, but not always like ours, Miss Lucy."

"And are there little children, boys and girls, in them all?"

"To be sure there are, else how would the world go on?  Why, I've seen them by swarms, white
or brown or black, running down to the shore as soon as the vessel cast anchor; and whatever
color they were, you might be sure of two things, Miss Lucy, in which they were all alike."

"Oh, what, Mrs. Bunker?"

"Why, in making plenty of noise, and in wanting all they could get to eat.  But they were little
darlings, some of them, if I only could have got at them to make them a bit cleaner.  Some
of them looked for all the world like the little bronze images your Uncle has got in the museum,
which he brought from Italy, and they hadn't a rag more clothing on either.  They were in India.
Dear, dear, to see them tumble about in the surf!"

"Oh, what fun! what fun!  I wish I could see them."

"You would be right glad, Missie, I can tell you, if you had been three or four months aboard
a vessel with nothing but dry biscuits and salt junk, and may be a tin of preserved vegetables
just to keep it wholesome, to see the black fellows come grinning alongside with their boats
and canoes all full of oranges and limes and grape-fruit and cocoanuts.  Doesn't one's mouth
fairly water for them?"

"Do please sit down, there's a good Mother Bunch, and tell me all about them.  Come, please do."

"Suppose I did, Miss Lucy, where would your poor uncle's preserved ginger be, that no one knows
from real West Indian ginger?"

"Oh, let me come into your room, and you can tell me all the time you are doing the ginger.

"It is very hot there, Missie."

"That will be more like some of the places.  I'll suppose I'm there! Look, Mrs. Bunker! here's
a whole green sea; the tiniest little dots all over it."

"Dots?  You'd hardly see all over one of those dots if you were in one.  That's the South Sea,
Miss Lucy, and those are the loveliest isles, except, may be, the West Indies, that ever I saw."

"Tell me about them, please," entreated Lucy.  "Here's one; it's name is--is Isabel--such a
little wee one."

"I can't tell you much of those South Sea Isles, Missie, as I made only one voyage among them,
when Bunker chartered the Penguin for the sandalwood trade; and we did not touch at many, for
the natives were fierce and savage, and thought nothing of coming down with arrows and spears
at a boat's crew.  So we only went to such islands as the missionaries had been to, and had
made the people more gentle and civil."

"Tell me all about it," said Lucy, following the old woman hither and thither as she bustled
about, talking all the time, and stirring her pan of ginger over the hot plate.

How it happened, it is not easy to say.  The room was very warm, and Mother Bunch went on talking
as she stirred, and a steam rose up, and by and by it seemed to Lucy that she had a great sneezing
fit; and when she looked again into the smoke, what did she see but two little black figures,
faces, heads, and feet all black, but with an odd sort of white garment round their waists,
and some fine red and green feathers sticking out of their wooly heads.

"Mrs. Bunker, Mrs. Bunker!" she cried; "what's this?  Who are these ugly figures?"

"Ugly!" said the foremost; and though it must have been some strange language, it sounded like
English to Lucy.  "Is that the way little white girl speaks to boy and girl that have come
all the way from Isabel to see her?"

"Oh, indeed! little Isabel boy, I beg your pardon.  I didn't know you were real, nor that you
could understand me!  I am so glad to see you.  Hush, Don! don't bark so!"

"Pig, pig; I never heard a pig squeak like that," said the black stranger.

"Pig!  It is a little dog.  Have you no dogs in your country?"

"Pigs go on four legs.  That must be pig."

"What, you have nothing that goes on four legs but a pig!  What do you eat, then, besides pig?"

"Yams, cocoa-nut, fish--oh, so good, and put pig into hole among hot stones, make a fire over,
bake so nice!"

"You shall have some of my tea and see if that is as nice," said Lucy.  "What a funny dress
you have; what is it made of?"

"Tapa cloth," said the little girl.  "We get the bark off the tree, and then we go hammer,
hammer, thump, thump, till all the hard thick stuff comes off;" and Lucy, looking near, saw
that the substance was really all a lacework of fibre, about as close as the net of Nurse's caps.

"Is that all your clothes?" she asked.

"Yes, till I am a warrior," said the boy; "then they will tattoo my forehead, and arms, and
breast, and legs."

"Tattoo? what's that!"

"Make little holes, and lines all over the skin with a sharp shell, and rub in juice that turns
it all to blue and purple lines."

"But doesn't it hurt dreadfully?" asked Lucy.

"Hurt! to be sure it does, but that will show that I am brave.  When father comes home from
the war he paints himself white."

"White?"

"With lime made by burning coral, and he jumps and dances and shouts. I shall go to the war
one of these days."

"Oh no, don't!" said Lucy, "it is horrid."

The boy laughed, but the little girl whispered, "Good white men say so.  Some day Lavo will
go and learn, and leave off fighting."

Lavo shook his head.  "No, not yet; I will be brave chief and warrior first,--bring home many
heads of enemies."

"I--I think it nice to be quiet," said Lucy; "and--and--won't you have some dinner?"

"Have you baked a pig?" asked Lavo.

"I think this is mutton," said Lucy, when the dish came up,--"It is sheep's flesh."

Lavo and his sister had no notion what sheep were.  They wanted to sit cross-legged on the
floor, but Lucy made each of them sit in a chair properly; but then they shocked her by picking
up the mutton-chops and stuffing them into their mouths with their fingers.

"Look here!" and she showed the knives and forks.

"Oh!" cried Lavo, "what good spikes to catch fish with! and knife--knife--I'll kill foes! much
better than shell knife."

"And I'll dig yams," said the sister.

"Oh, no!" entreated Lucy, "we have spades to dig with, soldiers have swords to fight with;
these are to eat with."

"I can eat much better without," said Lavo; but to please Lucy his sister did try; slashing
hard away with her knife, and digging her fork straight into a bit of meat.  Then she very
nearly ran it into her eye, and Lucy, who knew it was not good manners to laugh, was very near
choking herself.  And at last saying the knife and fork were "Great good--great good; but none
for eating," they stuck them through the great tortoise shell rings they had in their ears
and noses.  Lucy was distressed about Uncle Joseph's knives and forks, which she knew she ought
not to give away; but while she was looking about for Mrs. Bunker to interfere, Don seemed
to think it his business and began to growl and fly at the little black legs.

"A tree, a tree!" cried the Isabelites, "where's a tree?"  And while they spoke, Lavo had climbed
up the side of the door, and was sitting astride on the top of it, grinning down at the dog;
and his sister had her feet on the lock, going up after him.

"Tree houses," they cried; "there we are safe from our enemies."

And Lucy found rising before her, instead of her own nursery, a huge tree, on the top of a
mound.  Basket-work had been woven between the branches to make floors, and on these were huts
of bamboo cane; there were ladders hanging down made of strong creepers twisted together, and
above and around, the cries of cockatoos and parrots and the chirp of grasshoppers rang in
her ears.  She laid hold of the ladder of creeping plants and began to climb, but soon her
head swam, she grew giddy, and called out to Lavo to help her.  Then suddenly she found herself
curled up in Mrs. Bunker's big beehive chair, and she wondered whether she had been asleep.

CHAPTER III.

ITALY.

"If I could have such another funny dream!" said Lucy.  "Mother Bunch, have you ever been to
Italy?" and she put her finger on the long leg and foot, kicking at three-cornered Sicily.

"Yes, Missie, that I have; come out of this cold room and I'll tell you."

Lucy was soon curled in her chair; but no, she wasn't!  She was under a blue, blue sky, as
she had never dreamt of; clear, sharp, purple hills rose up against it.  There was a rippling
little fountain, bursting out of a rock, carved with old, old carvings, broken now and defaced,
but shadowed over by lovely maidenhair fern and trailing bindweed; and in a niche above a little
roof, a figure of the Blessed Virgin.  Some way off stood a long, low house propped up against
the rich yellow stone walls and pillars of another old, old building, and with a great chestnut-tree
shadowing it.  It had a balcony, and the gable end was open, and full of big yellow pumpkins
and clusters of grapes hung up to dry; and some goats were feeding round.

Then came a merry, merry voice singing something about la vendemmia; and though Lucy had never
learnt Italian, her wonderful dream knowledge made her sure that this meant the vintage, the
grape-gathering. Presently there came along a youth playing a violin and a little girl singing.
And a whole party of other children, all loaded with as many grapes as they could carry, came
leaping and singing after them; their black hair loose, or sometimes twisted with vine-leaves;
their big black eyes dancing with merriment, and their bare, brown legs with glee.

"Ah! Cecco, Cecco!" cried the little girl, pausing as she beat her tambourine, "here's a stranger
who has no grapes; bring them here!"

"But," said Lucy, "aren't they your mamma's grapes; may you give them away?"

"Ah, ah! 'tis the vendemmia! all may eat grapes; as much as they will.  See, there's the vineyard."

Lucy saw on the slope of the hill above the cottage long poles such as hops grow upon, and
clusters hanging down.  Men in shady, battered hats, bright sashes and braces, and white shirt
sleeves, and women with handkerchiefs folded square over their heads, were cutting the grapes
down, and piling them up in baskets; and a low cart drawn by two mouse-colored oxen, with enormous
wide horns and gentle-looking eyes, was waiting to be loaded with baskets.

"To the wine-press! to the press!" shouted the children, who were politeness itself and wanted
to show her everything.

The wine-press was a great marble trough with pipes leading off into other vessels around.
Into it went the grapes, and in the midst were men and boys and little children, all with bare
feet and legs up to the knees, dancing and leaping, and bounding and skipping upon the grapes,
while the red juice covered their brown skins.

"Come in, come in; you don't know how charming it is!" cried Cecco. "It is the best time of
all the year, the dear vintage; come in and tread the grapes."

"But you must take off your shoes and stockings," said his sister, Nunziata; "we never wear
them but on Sundays and holidays."

Lucy was not sure that she might, but the children looked so joyous, and it seemed to be such
fun, that she began fumbling with the buttons of her boots, and while she was doing it she
opened her eyes, and found that her beautiful bunch of grapes was only the cushion in the bottom
of Mother Bunch's chair.

CHAPTER IV.

GREENLAND.

"Now suppose I tried what the very cold countries are like!"

And Lucy bent over the globe till she was nearly ready to cut her head off with the brass meridian,
as she looked at the long, jagged tongue, with no particular top to it, hanging down on the
east side of America.  Perhaps it was the making herself so cold that did it, but she found
herself in the midst of snow, snow, snow!  All was snow except the sea, and that was a deep
green, and in it were monstrous, floating white things, pinnacled all over like a Cathedral,
and as big, and with hollows in them of glorious deep blue and green, like jewels; Lucy knew
they were icebergs.  A sort of fringe of these cliffs of ice hemmed in the shore.  And on one
of them stood what she thought at first was a little brown bear, for the light was odd, the
sun was so very low down, and there was so much glare from the snow that it seemed unnatural.
However, before she had time to be afraid of the bear, she saw that it was really a little
boy, with a hood and coat and leggings of thick, thick fur, and a spear in his hand, with which
he every now and then made a dash at a fish,--great cod fish, such as Mamma had often on a Friday.

Into them went his spear, up came the poor fish, which was strung with some others on a string
the boy carried.  Lucy crept up as well as she could on the slippery ice, and the little Esquimaux
stared at her with a kind of stupid surprise.

"Is that the way you get fish?" she asked.

"Yes, and seals; father gets them," he said.

"Oh, what's that swimming out there?"

"That's a white bear," he said coolly; "we had better get home."

Lucy thought so indeed; only where was home?--that puzzled her. However, she trotted along
by the side of her companion, and presently came to what might have been an enormous snow-ball,
but there was a hole in it.  Yes, it was hollow; and as her companion made for the opening,
she saw more little stout figures rolled up in furs inside.  Then she perceived that it was
a house built up of blocks of snow, arranged so as to make the shape of a beehive, all frozen
together, and with a window of ice.  It made her shiver to think of going in, but she thought
the white bear might come after her, and in she went.  Even her little head had to bend under
the low doorway, and behold, it was the very closest, stuffiest, if not the hottest place she
had ever been in!  There was a kind of lamp burning in the hut; that is, a wick was floating
in some oil, but there was no glass, such as Lucy had been apt to think the chief part of a
lamp, and all round it squatted upon skins these queer little stumpy figures dressed so much
alike that there was no knowing the men from the women, except that the women had much bigger
boots, and used them instead of pockets, and they had their babies in bags of skin upon their
backs.

They seemed to be kind people, for they made room near their lamp for the little girl, and
asked her where she had been wrecked. Then one of the women cut off a great lump of raw something--was
it a walrus, with that round head and big tusks?--and held it up to her; and when Lucy shook
her head and said, "No, thank you," as civilly as she could, the woman tore it in two, and
handed a lump over her shoulder to her baby, who began to gnaw it.  Then her first friend,
the little boy, hoping to please her better, offered her some drink.  Ah! it was oil, just
like the oil that was burning in the lamp!--horrid oil from the whales!  She could not help
shaking her head; and so much that she woke herself up!

CHAPTER V.

TYROL.

"Suppose I could see where that dear little black chamois horn came from!  But Mother Bunch
can't tell me about that I'm afraid, for she always went by sea, and here's the Tyrol without
one bit of sea near it.  It's just one of the strings to the great knot of mountains that tie
Europe up in the middle.  Oh! what is a mountain like?"

