 (9) Or, "at an equal rent with that which she imposes on her own
    citizens." See Boeckh, "P. E. A." IV. x. (p. 540, Eng. tr.)

But, to make my meaning clearer on the question of maintenance, I will at this point explain
in detail how the silver mines may be furnished and extended so as to render them much more
useful to the state. Only I would premise that I claim no sort of admiration for anything which
I am about to say, as though I had hit upon some recondite discovery. Since half of what I
have to say is at the present moment still patent to the eyes of all of us, and as to what
belongs to past history, if we are to believe the testimony of our fathers, (10) things were
then much of a piece with what is going on now. No, what is really marvellous is that the state,
with the fact of so many private persons growing wealthy at her expense, and under her very
eyes, should have failed to imitate them. It is an old story, trite enough to those of us who
have cared to attend to it, how once on a time Nicias, the son of Niceratus, owned a thousand
men in the silver mines, (11) whom he let out to Sosias, a Thracian, on the following terms.
Sosias was to pay him a net obol a day, without charge or deduction, for every slave of the
thousand, and be (12) responsible for keeping up the number perpetually at that figure. So
again Hipponicus (13) had six hundred slaves let out on the same principle, which brought him
in a net mina (14) a day without charge or deduction. Then there was Philemonides, with three
hundred, bringing him in half a mina, and others, I make no doubt there were, making profits
in proportion to their respective resources and capital. (15) But there is no need to revert
to ancient history. At the present moment there are hundreds of human beings in the mines let
out on the same principle. (16) And given that my proposal were carried into effect, the only
novelty in it is that, just as the individual in acquiring the ownership of a gang of slaves
finds himself at once provided with a permanent source of income, so the state, in like fashion,
should possess herself of a body of public slaves, to the number, say, of three for every Athenian
citizen. (17) As to the feasibility of our proposals, I challenge any one whom it may concern
to test the scheme point by point, and to give his verdict.

 (10) Reading {para ton pateron}, with Zurborg, after Wilamowitz-
    Mollendorf.

 (11) See "Mem." II. v. 2; Plut. "Nicias," 4; "Athen." vi. 272. See an
    important criticism of Boeckh's view by Cornewall Lewis,
    translation of "P. E. A." p. 675 foll.

 (12) Reading {parekhein}, or if {pareikhen}, transl. "whilst he
    himself kept up the number." See H. hagen in "Journ. Philol." x.
    19, pp. 34-36; also Zurborg, "Comm." p. 28.

 (13) Son of Callias.

 (14) = L4:1:3 = 600 ob.

 (15) Or, "whose incomes would vary in proportion to their working
    capital."

 (16) See Jebb, "Theophr." xxvi. 21.

 (17) According to the ancient authorities the citizens of Athens
    numbered about 21,000 at this date, which would give about 63,000
    as the number of state-slaves contemplated for the purposes of the
    scheme. See Zurborg, "Comm." p. 29. "At a census taken in B.C. 309
    the number of slaves was returned at 400,000, and it does not seem
    likely that there were fewer at any time during the classical
    period."--"A Companion to School Classics" (James Gow), p. 101,
    xiii. "Population of Attica."

With regard to the price then of the men themselves, it is obvious that the public treasury
is in a better position to provide funds than any private individuals. What can be easier than
for the Council (18) to invite by public proclamation all whom it may concern to bring their
slaves, and to buy up those produced? Assuming the purchase to be effected, is it credible
that people will hesitate to hire from the state rather than from the private owner, and actually
on the same terms? People have at all events no hesitation at present in hiring consecrated
grounds, sacred victims, (19) houses, etc., or in purchasing the right of farming taxes from
the state. To ensure the preservation of the purchased property, the treasury can take the
same securities precisely from the lessee as it does from those who purchase the right of farming
its taxes. Indeed, fraudulent dealing is easier on the part of the man who has purchased such
a right than of the man who hires slaves. Since it is not easy to see how the exportation (20)
of public money is to be detected, when it differs in no way from private money. Whereas it
will take a clever thief to make off with these slaves, marked as they will be with the public
stamp, and in face of a heavy penalty attached at once to the sale and exportation of them.
Up to this point then it would appear feasible enough for the state to acquire property in
men and to keep a safe watch over them. (21)

 (18) Or, "senate." See Aristot. "Athen. Pol." for the functions of the
    Boule.

 (19) So Zurborg. See Demosth. "in Mid." 570; Boeckh, "P. E. A." II.
    xii. (p. 212, Eng. tr.) See Arnold's note to "Thuc." iii. 50, 7.

 (20) Or, "diversation," "defalcation."

 (21) Or, "as far as that goes, then, there is nothing apparently to
    prevent the state from acquiring property in slaves, and
    safeguarding the property so acquired."

But with reference to an opposite objection which may present itself to the mind of some one:
what guarantee is there that, along with the increase in the supply of labourers, there will
be a corresponding demand for their services on the part of contractors? (22) It may be reassuring
to note, first of all, that many of those who have already embarked on mining operations (23)
will be anxious to increase their staff of labourers by hiring some of these public slaves
(remember, they have a large capital at stake; (24) and again, many of the actual labourers
now engaged are growing old); and secondly, there are many others, Athenians and foreigners
alike, who, though unwilling and indeed incapable of working physically in the mines, will
be glad enough to earn a livelihood by their wits as superintendents. (25)

 (22) Or, "with this influx (multiplying) of labourers there will be a
    corresponding increase in the demand for labour on the part of the
    lessees."

 (23) Or, "got their mining establishments started."

 (24) Or, "of course they will, considering the amount of fixed capital
    at stake," or, "since they have large resources at their back." I
    have adopted Zurborg's stopping of this sentence.

 (25) See "Mem." II. viii. 1, for an illustrative case.

Let it be granted, however, that at first a nucleus of twelve hundred slaves is formed. It
is hardly too sanguine a supposition that out of the profits alone, (26) within five or six
years this number may be increased to at least six thousand. Again, out of that number of six
thousand--supposing each slave to being in an obol a day clear of all expenses--we get a revenue
of sixty talents a year. And supposing twenty talents out of this sum laid out on the purchase
of more slaves, there will be forty talents left for the state to apply to any other purpose
it may find advisable. By the time the round number (27) of ten thousand is reached the yearly
income will amount to a hundred talents.

 (26) "Out of the income so derived."

 (27) Or, "full complement."

As a matter of fact, the state will receive much more than these figures represent, (28) as
any one here will bear me witness who can remember what the dues (29) derived from slaves realised
before the troubles at Decelea. (30) Testimony to the same effect is borne by the fact, that
in spite of the countless number of human beings employed in the silver mines within the whole
period, (31) the mines present exactly the same appearance to-day as they did within the recollection
of our forefathers. (32) And once more everything that is taking place to-day tends to prove
that, whatever the number of slaves employed, you will never have more than the works can easily
absorb. The miners find no limit of depth in sinking shafts or laterally in piercing galleries.
To open cuttings in new directions to-day is just as possible as it was in former times. In
fact no one can take on himself to say whether there is more ore in the regions already cut
into, or in those where the pick has not yet struck. (33) Well then, it may be asked, why is
it that there is not the same rush to make new cuttings now as in former times? The answer
is, because the people concerned with the mines are poorer nowadays. The attempt to restart
operations, renew plant, etc., is of recent date, and any one who ventures to open up a new
area runs a considerable risk. Supposing he hits upon a productive field, he becomes a rich
man, but supposing he draws a blank, he loses the whole of his outlay; and that is a danger
which people of the present time are shy of facing.

 (28) Or, "a very much larger sum than we have calculated on." Lit.
    "many times over that sum."

 (29) Or, "tax." See below, S. 49; for the whole matter see Thuc. vii.
    27, vi. 91; Xen. "Mem." III. vi. 12, in reference to B.C. 413,
    when Decelea had been fortified. As to the wholesale desertion of
    slaves, "more than twenty thousand slaves had deserted, many of
    them artisans," according to Thucydides.

 (30) Or, "the days of Decelea." Lit. "the incidents of Decelea."

 (31) I.e. "of their working since mining began."

 (32) Lit. "are just the same to-day as our forefathers recollected
    them to be in their time."

 (33) Or, "whether the tracts already explored or those not yet opened
    are the more prolific."

It is a difficulty, but it is one on which, I believe, I can offer some practical advice. I
have a plan to suggest which will reduce the risk of opening up new cuttings to a minimum. (34)

 (34) Or, "I have a plan to make the opening of new cuttings as safe as
    possible."

The citizens of Athens are divided, as we all know, into ten tribes. Let the state then assign
to each of these ten tribes an equal number of slaves, and let the tribes agree to associate
their fortunes and proceed to open new cuttings. What will happen? Any single tribe hitting
upon a productive lode will be the means of discovering what is advantageous to all. Or, supposing
two or three, or possibly the half of them, hit upon a lode, clearly these several operations
will proportionally be more remunerative still. That the whole ten will fail is not at all
in accordance with what we should expect from the history of the past. It is possible, of course,
for private persons to combine in the same way, (35) and share their fortunes and minimise
their risks. Nor need you apprehend, sirs, that a state mining company, established on this
principle, will prove a thorn in the side (36) of the private owner, or the private owner prove
injurious to the state. But rather like allies who render each other stronger the more they
combine, (37) so in these silver mines, the greater number of companies at work (38) the larger
the riches they will discover and disinter. (39)

 (35) "To form similar joint-stock companies."

 (36) See "Cyneg." v. 5.

 (37) Or, "deriving strength from combination."

 (38) Co-operators.

 (39) Reading {ekphoresousi}, after Cobet.

This then is a statement, as far as I can make it clear, of the method by which, with the proper
state organisation, every Athenian may be supplied with ample maintenance at the public expense.
Possibly some of you may be calculating that the capital (40) requisite will be enormous. They
may doubt if a sufficient sum will ever be subscribed to meet all the needs. All I can say
is, even so, do not despond. It is not as if it were necessary that every feature of the scheme
should be carried out at once, or else there is to be no advantage in it at all. On the contrary,
whatever number of houses are erected, or ships are built, or slaves purchased, etc., these
portions will begin to pay at once. In fact, the bit-by-bit method of proceeding will be more
advantageous than a simultaneous carrying into effect of the whole plan, to this extent: if
we set about erecting buildings wholesale (41) we shall make a more expensive and worse job
of it than if we finish them off gradually. Again, if we set about bidding for hundreds of
slaves at once we shall be forced to purchase an inferior type at a higher cost. Whereas, if
we proceed tentatively, as we find ourselves able, (42) we can complete any well-devised attempt
at our leisure, (43) and, in case of any obvious failure, take warning and not repeat it. Again,
if everything were to be carried out at once, it is we, sirs, who must make the whole provision
at our expense. (44) Whereas, if part were proceeded with and part stood over, the portion
of revenue in hand will help to furnish what is necessary to go on with. But to come now to
what every one probably will regard as a really grave danger, lest the state may become possessed
of an over large number of slaves, with the result that the works will be overstocked. That
again is an apprehension which we may escape if we are careful not to put into the works more
hands from year to year than the works themselves demand. Thus (45) I am persuaded that the
easiest method of carrying out this scheme, as a whole, is also the best. If, however, you
are persuaded that, owing to the extraordinary property taxes (46) to which you have been subjected
during the present war, you will not be equal to any further contributions at present, (47)
what you should do is this: (48) during the current year resolve to carry on the financial
administration of the state within the limits of a sum equivalent to that which your dues (49)
realised before the peace. That done, you are at liberty to take any surplus sum, whether directly
traceable to the peace itself, or to the more courteous treatment of our resident aliens and
traders, or to the growth of the imports and exports, coincident with the collecting together
of larger masses of human beings, or to an augmentation of harbour (50) and market dues: this
surplus, I say, however derived, you should take and invest (51) so as to bring in the greatest
revenue. (52)

 (40) Or, "sinking fund."

 (41) {athrooi}--"in a body." It is a military phrase, I think. In
    close order, as it were, not in detachments.

 (42) "According to our ability," a favourite Socratic phrase.

 (43) {authis}. See for this corrupt passage Zurborg, "Comm." p. 31. He
    would insert, "and a little delay will not be prejudicial to our
    interests, but rather the contrary," or to that effect, thus: {kai
    authis an  (anutoimen ou gar toiaute te anabole blaben genesthai
    an) emin oiometha} "vel simile aliquid."

 (44) Or, "it is we who must bear the whole burthen of the outlay."

 (45) {outos}, "so far, unless I am mistaken, the easiest method is the
    best."

 (46) Or, "heavy contributions, subscriptions incidental to," but the
    word {eisphoras} is technical. For the exhaustion of the treasury
    see Dem. "Lept." 464; Grote, "H. G."xi. 326.

 (47) Or, "you will not be able to subscribe a single penny more."

 (48) {umeis de}, you are masters of the situation. It lies with you to
    carry on, etc.; {dioikeite} is of course imperative.

 (49) Or, "taxes."

