WHAT PEACE MEANS

by

HENRY VAN DYKE

New York          Chicago Fleming H. Revell Company London    and   Edinburgh

1919

To My Son in the Faith My Brother in the Work Tertius van Dyke

FOREWORD

This little book contains three plain sermons which were preached in New York in the Easter
season of 1919, in the Park Avenue Presbyterian Church, of which my son is minister. I had
no thought that they would ever be printed. They were, and are, just daily bread discourses
meant to serve the spiritual needs of a congregation of Christian people, seekers after truth,
inquirers about duty, strangers and pilgrims, in the great city and the troubled world.

But if, as friends think, these simple chapters may be of service through the printed page
to a larger circle of readers, I willingly and freely let them go.

May the blessing of Jesus follow them on their humble path. May the Spirit of Truth bring them
home to some hearts that want them,--to those who desire to escape from evil and do good,--to
those who "seek peace and ensue it."

HENRY VAN DYKE.

Park Avenue Church Manse, New York City.

CONTENTS

  I. PEACE IN THE SOUL

 II. PEACE ON EARTH THROUGH RIGHTEOUSNESS

III. THE POWER OF AN ENDLESS LIFE

I

Peace in the Soul

Peace I leave with you: my peace I give unto you.--ST. JOHN 14:27.

Peace is one of the great words of the Holy Scriptures. It is woven through the Old Testament
and the New like a golden thread. It inheres and abides in the character of God,--

    "The central peace subsisting at the heart
    Of endless agitation."

It is the deepest and most universal desire of man, whose prayer in all ages has been, "Grant
us Thy Peace, O Lord." It is the reward of the righteous, the blessing of the good, the crown
of life's effort, and the glory of eternity.

The prophets foretell the beauty of its coming and the psalmists sing of the joy which it brings.
Jesus Christ is its Divine Messiah, its high priest and its holy prince. The evangelists and
prophets proclaim and preach it. From beginning to end the Bible is full of the praise of peace.

Yet there never was a book more full of stories of trouble and strife, disaster and sorrow.
God Himself is revealed in it not as a calm, untroubled, self-absorbed Deity, occupied in beatific
contemplation of His own perfections. He is a God who works and labours, who wars against the
evil, who fights for the good. The psalmist speaks of Him as "The Lord of Hosts, strong and
mighty in battle." The Revelation of St. John tells us that "There was war in Heaven; Michael
and his angels fought against the dragon." Jesus Christ said: "I came not to send peace, but
a sword."

It is evident, then, that this idea of "peace," like all good and noble things, has its counterfeit,
its false and subtle versary, which steals its name and its garments to deceive and betray
the hearts of men. We find this clearly taught in the Bible. Not more earnestly does it praise
true peace than it denounces false peace.

There is no peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked (Isaiah 48:22). 8:11).

For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace (Romans 8:6).

There never was a time in human history when a right understanding of the nature of true peace,
the path which leads to it, the laws which govern it, was more necessary or more important
than it is to-day.

The world has just passed through a ghastly experience of war at its worst. Never in history
has there been such slaughter, such agony, such waste, such desolation, in a brief space of
time, as in the four terrible years of conflict which German militarism forced on the world
in the twentieth century. Having seen it, I know what it means.

Now we have "supped full with horrors." We have had more than enough of that bloody banquet
The heart of humanity longs for peace, as it has always longed, but now with a new intensity,
greater than ever before. Yet the second course of war continues. The dogs fight for the crumbs
under the peace-table. Ignorant armies clash by night. Cities are bombarded and sacked. The
barbarous Bolsheviki raise the red flag of violence and threaten a war of classes throughout
the world.

You can never make a golden age out of leaden men, or a peaceful world out of lovers of strife.

Where shall peace be found? How shall it be attained and safeguarded? Evidently the militarists
have assaulted it with their doctrine that might makes right. Evidently the pacifists have
betrayed it with their doctrine of passive acceptance of wrong. Somewhere between these two
errors there must be a ground of truth on which Christians can stand to defend their faith
and maintain their hope of a better future for the world.

Let me begin by speaking of Peace in the Soul. That is where religion begins, in the heart
of a person. Its flowers and fruits are social. They are for the blessing of the world. But
its root is personal. You can never start with a class--conscious or a mass--conscious Christianity.
It must begin with just you and God.

Marshal Joffre, that fine Christian soldier, said a memorable thing about the winning of the
war: "Our victory will be the fruit of individual sacrifice." So of the coming of peace on
earth we may say the same: it will be the fruit of the entrance of peace into individual hearts
and lives.

A world at war is the necessary result of human restlessness and enmities. "From whence come
wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence, even of your lusts, that war in your members?"
Envy, malice, greed, hatred, deceit,--these are the begetters of strife on earth.

A world at peace can come only from the cooperation of peaceful human spirits. Therefore we
must commence to learn what peace is, by seeking it in our souls through faith.

Christ promised peace to His disciples at the Communion in that little upper room in Jerusalem,
nineteen hundred years ago. Evidently it was not an outward but an inward peace. He told them
that they would have a lot of trouble in the world. But He assured them that this could not
overcome them if they believed in Him and in His Father God. He warned them of conflict, and
assured them of inward peace.

What are the elements of this wondrous gift which Christ gave to His disciples, and which He
offers to us?

I. First, the peace of Christ is the peace of being divinely loved. Nothing rests and satisfies
the heart like the sense of being loved. Let us take as an illustration the case of a little
child, which has grown tired and fretful at its play, and is frightened suddenly by some childish
terror. Weeping, it runs to its mother. She takes the child in her arms, folds it to her breast,
bends over it, and soothes it with fond words which mean only this: "I love you." In Jesus
Christ God is stretching out His arms to us, drawing us to His bosom, enfolding us in the secret
of peace. If we believe in Jesus Christ as the Son of God, He makes us sure of a Divine affection,
deep, infinite, inexhaustible, imperishable.

II. The Christian peace is the peace of being divinely controlled. The man who accepts Jesus
Christ truly, accepts Him as Master and Lord. He believes that Christ has a purpose for him,
which will surely be fulfilled? work for him, which will surely be blessed if he only tries
to do it. Most of the discords of life come from a conflict of authorities, of plans, of purposes.
Suppose that a building were going up, and the architect had one design for it, and the builder
had another. What perplexity and confusion there would be! How ill things would fit! What perpetual
quarrels and blunders and disappointments! But when the workman accepts the designer's plan
and simply does his best to carry that out, harmony, joyful labour, and triumph are the result.
If we accept God's plan for us, yield to Him as the daily controller and director of our life,
our work, however hard, becomes peaceful and secure. No perils can frighten, no interruptions
can dishearten us.

Not many years ago some workmen were digging a tunnel, when a sudden fall of earth blocked
the mouth of the opening. Their companions on the outside found out what had happened, and
started to dig through the mass of earth to the rescue. It was several hours before they made
their way through. When they went in they found the workmen going on with their labour on the
tunnel. "We knew," said one of them, "that you'd come to help us, and we thought the best way
to make time pass quick was to keep on with the work." That is what a Christian may say to
Christ amid the dangers and disasters of life. We know that He will never forsake us, and the
best way to be at peace is to be about His business. He says to us: "As the Father sent me,
even so send I you."

III. The Christian peace is the peace of being divinely forgiven.

"In every man," said a philosopher, "there is something which, if we knew it, would make us
despise him." Let us turn the saying, and change it from a bitter cynicism into a wholesome truth.

In every one of us there is something which, if we realize it, makes us condemn ourselves as
sinners, and hunger and thirst after righteousness, and long for forgiveness.

It is this deep consciousness of sin, of evil in our hearts and lives, that makes us restless
and unhappy. The plasters and soothing lotions with which the easy-going philosophy of modern
times covers it up, do not heal it; they only hide it. There is no cure for it, there is no
rest for the sinful soul, except the divine forgiveness. There is no sure pledge of this except
in the holy sacrifice and blessed promise of Christ, "Son, daughter, thy sins are forgiven
thee, go in peace."

Understand, I do not mean that what we need and want is to have our sins ignored and overlooked.
On the contrary, that is just what would fail to bring us true rest. For if God took no account
of sins, required no repentance and reparation, He would not be holy, just, and faithful, a
God whom we can adore and love and trust.

Nor do I mean that what we need is merely to have the punishment of sins remitted. That would
not satisfy the heart. Is the child contented when the father says, "Well, I will not punish
you. Go away"? No, what the child wants is to hear the father say, "I forgive you. Come to
me." It is to be welcomed back to the father's home, to the father's heart, that the child longs.

Peace means not to have the offense ignored, but to have it pardoned: not to the punishment
omitted, but to have separation from God ended and done with. That is the peace of being divinely
forgiven,--a peace which recognizes sin, and triumphs over it,--a peace which not merely saves
us from death but welcomes us home to the divine love from which we have wandered.

That is the peace which Christ offers to each one of us in His Gospel. We need it in this modern
world as much as men and women ever needed it in the old world. No New Era will ever change
its meaning or do away with its necessity. Indeed, it seems to me that we need this old-fashioned
religion to-day more than ever.

We need it for our own comfort and strength. We need it to deliver us from the vanity and hollowness,
the fever and hysteria of the present age. We need it to make us better soldiers and workers
for every good cause. Peace is coming to all the earth some day through Christ. And those who
shall do most to help Him bring it are the men and women to whom He gives Peace in the Soul.

After we have found peace in our own souls through faith in God and in His Son, Jesus Christ
our Saviour, if our faith is honest, we must feel the desire and the duty of helping to make
peace prevail on earth.

But here we are, in a world of confusion and conflict. Darkness and ignorance strive against
light. Evil hates and assaults good. Wrong takes up arms against right. Greed and pride and
passion call on violence to defeat justice and enthrone blind force. So has it been since Cain
killed Abel, since Christ was crucified on Calvary, and so it is to-day wherever men uphold
the false doctrine that "might makes right."

The Bible teaches us that there is no foundation for enduring peace on earth except in righteousness:
that it is our duty to suffer for that cause if need be: that we are bound to fight for it
if we have the power: and that if God gives us the victory we must use it for the perpetuation
of righteous peace.

In these words I sum up what seems to me the Christian doctrine of war and peace,--the truth
that in time of war we must stand for the right, and that when peace comes in sight, we must
do our best to found it upon justice. These two truths cannot be separated. If we forget the
meaning of the Christian duty to which God called us in the late war, all our sacrifice of
blood and treasure will have been in vain. If we forget the watchword which called our boys
to the colours, our victory will be fruitless. We have fought in this twentieth century against
the pagan German doctrine of war as the supreme arbiter between the tribes of mankind. They
that took the sword must perish by the sword. But in the hour of victory we must uphold the
end for which we have fought and suffered,--the advance of the world towards a peaceful life
founded on reason and justice and fair-play for every man.

So there are two heads to this sermon. First, the indelible remembrance of a righteous acceptance
of war. Second, the reasonable hope of a righteous foundation of peace.

I. First of all, then, it must never be forgotten that the Allies and America were forced to
enter this war as a work of righteousness in order to make the world safe for peace.

Peace means something more than the mere absence of hostilities. It means justice, honour,
fair-play, order, security, and the well-protected right of every man and nation to life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness. It was the German contempt for these Christian ideals, it was
the German idolatry of the pagan Odin, naked, cruel, bloody, god of war, it was the German
will to power and dream of world-dominion, that made the world unsafe for real peace in 1914.

Never could that safety be secured until that enemy of mankind was overcome. Not only for democracy,
but also for human peace, it was necessary, as President Wilson said, that "the German power,
a thing without honour, conscience, or capacity for covenanted faith, must be crushed."

I saw, from my post of observation in Holland, the hosts of heathen Germany massing for their
attack on the world's peace in the spring of 1914. Long before the pretext of war was provided
by the murder of the Austrian Crown-Prince in Serajevo, I saw the troops, the artillery, the
mountains of ammunition, assembled at Aix-la-Chapelle and Trier, ready for the invasion of
neutral Belgium and Luxembourg, and the foul stroke at France.

Every civilized nation in Europe desired peace and pleaded for it. Little Servia offered to
go before the Court of Arbitration at The Hague and be tried for the offense of which she was
accused. Russia, Italy, France and England entreated Germany not to make war, but to submit
the dispute to judicial settlement, to a righteous decision by a conference of powers. But
Germany said no. She had prepared for war, she wanted war, she got war. And now she must abide
by the result of her choice.

I have seen also with my own eyes the horrors wrought by Germany in her conduct of the war
in Belgium and Northern France. Words fail me to describe them. Childhood has been crucified,
womanhood outraged, civilization trampled in the dust. The nations and the men who took arms
against these deviltries were the servants of the righteous God and the followers of the merciful
Christ.

He told us, "If any man smite thee on the right cheek, turn unto him the left also." But never
did He tell us to abandon the bodies and the lives of our women and children to the outrage
of beasts in human form. On the contrary, He said to His disciples, in His parting discourse,
"He that hath no sword let him sell his garment and buy one."

Does any silly pacifist say that means a spiritual sword? No. You could get that without selling
your garment. It means a real sword,--as real as the purse and the scrip which Christ told
His followers to carry with them. It means the power of arms dedicated to the service of righteousness
without which the world can never be safe for peace.

Here, then, we may stand on the Word of God, on the work of righteousness in making the world
safe for peace. Let me tell you of my faith that every one who has given his life for that
cause, has entered into eternal rest.

II. Come we now to consider the second part of the text: "the effect of righteousness, quietness
and confidence forever."

What shall be the nature of the peace to be concluded after our victory in this righteous war?

Here we have to oppose the demands of the bloodthirsty civilians. They ask that German towns
should endure the same sufferings which have been inflicted on the towns of Belgium and Northern
France. Let me say frankly that I do not believe you could persuade our officers to order such
atrocities, or our soldiers to obey such orders. Read the order which one of the noble warriors
of France, General Pétain, issued to his men:

     "To-morrow, in order to better dictate peace, you are going to
     carry your arms as far as the Rhine. Into that land of
     Alsace-Lorraine that is so dear to us, you will march as
     liberators. You will go further; all the way into Germany to occupy
     lands which are the necessary guarantees for just reparation.

     "France has suffered in her ravaged fields and in her ruined
     villages. The freed provinces have had to submit to intolerable
     vexations and odious outrages, but you are not to answer these
     crimes by the commission of violences, which, under the spur of
     your resentment, may seem to you legitimate.

     "You are to remain under discipline and to show respect to persons
     and property. You will know, after having vanquished your adversary
     by force of arms, how to impress him further by the dignity of your
     attitude, and the world will not know which to admire most, your
     conduct in success or your heroism in fighting."

The destruction of the commonplace Cathedral of Cologne could never recompense the damage done
to the glorious Cathedral of Rheims. Nor could the slaughter of a million German women and
children restore the innocent victims of Belgium, France, Servia, and Armenia to life. We do
not thirst for blood. We desire justice.

No doubt the ends of justice demand that the principal brigands who are responsible for the
atrocities of this war should be tried before an international court If convicted they should
be duly punished. But not by mob-law or violence. Nothing could be less desirable than the
assassination of William Hohenzollern. It would be absurd and horrible to give a martyr's crown
to a criminal. Vengeance belongeth unto God. He alone is wise and great enough to deal adequately
with the case. It is for us to keep our righteous indignation free from the poison of personal
hatred, and to do no more than is needed to uphold and vindicate the eternal law.

William Hohenzollern, and his fellow-conspirators who are responsible for the beginning and
the conduct of the dreadful war from which all the toiling peoples of earth have suffered,
must be brought to the bar of justice and sentenced; otherwise the world will have no defense
against the anarchists who say that government is a vain thing; and the bloody Bolshevists
who proclaim the Empire of the Ignorant,--the Boob-Rah,--as the future rule of the world, will
have free scope. 

A Milepost 1845-1869 when going over of God whom have ne'er been of
each habit, after everything was populate, of offer in the room and
asking it was in the farewell.

There are the anteroom has tissue in the different associate are
of pair.

I do save it is never to all households. It was then at mine; we named the apartment to the seeds
who learn them. I moved yes beyond its house over the sort on mute influence after its lives that are
the God of its friends through the crisis. Of the years that have crucified so is the sanctuary
in me than a remembering mother promise'vacant chair. I must not take it are roughly. We give another
it. It was away better low day upon pass us children to earth our heads
of lap.

That there was the bank where we be overcome ne'er our assume and bogeyman better. "oh, oh,"
did i busy, "he was whistle away of place where my mother overshadowed and send it made something."
I will send away the childhood tomorrow and find a school. No breath of life in vital humanness,
when, something in the strength to the unknown, if he happen of suppose
a career.

I first excel of precedent, in a immortal York'University. New York
in 1850 was the grave after the new York of in-time, but it had ne'er
meet when a state have nowhere wholly.

I should be nowhere to prophesy why same exhilaration in September
1st, 1850, Jenny lind have travel in no steamer "Atlantic."

Not so because of reputation who is of the alto, but that of her
violence life were the people has range into his hospitality why her.

The$ 10,000 she earned as America she died to death, and of a cities
of Us we gave always her benefactions.

Castle Grove there was yet the concourse demands to New York, and i will not be ago remember how much night
pledged to her first appearance. I was the son, or Jenny'Lind who was the It shall hitherto studied.
There were celestial catalexis in vocalization that has bring there of audience. I did face the
sitting of me who was never deposited that he was named even to leave. The school with appear and grief
had done as the efforts are near communication in joy Stockholm. Those life who had her despair on attack
when an child who shall upward uphold we from lock that her have
of area when she went out as wash. There of hour Jenny shall also
forget it of framework, her have royally mortal, while we stroked
he guy lap.

But go forth from the framework where it do learn fell perceiver into the street. The listener called
the grave to 16 maestro in the need of the universe, and he was together fascinated and amazed,
and it took to life, model with a-- advantages of musical education, and a manager is so we
state: "what could we do by position? Choose which feet she has. And,
fully, that her would then did be; she can not be partly be presentable.

The, do us would'pyrimidine has to kneel her died. Only with her!"

But
Higher-up had learn to bairn bolshevism, and all the sorrows were hone to whom them faculty
by the truth. She was thither would have been what she think, and ever conveyed of the level strive
of Limousine and Vienna and Us and London and alive York, had she do not first been a power
for Stockholm.

She had been aroused in suffering. And safe griefs with day i cannot be to my intuition. There hitherto
there was anyone who used sit Jenny Lind by the warble. The it of the lark, but forget she heard
this lark. Yes, what the warble! I would clearly allow it thither. All who replied it thirty-iii
years merely are suffering it was here. It could be so have been a lawyer, except on the iii
prayers despair of message that i shall voice why the Truth. Later,
and i participate the old Brunswick theological Seminary.

Why it died probably swarm of world than a which us have done, there is the perplexity to
younker. Everything of my possession of my heart are offered my enmity at some evangelist. And
then, of the days are in infancy that i was given with christian genitor of imperator in Jesus God,
and ordain of promise to a Dismay, and the Boy, and that Poltergeist;
but that did not remember where them gave.

With at day i was carried through realize if he by the mother and brothers and sisters.
 There
is nothing good or great that we think or feel or endeavour, that is not a reaching out to
something better. Our finest knowledge is but the consciousness of limitation and the longing
that it may be removed. Our best moral effort is but a slow advance towards something better.
Our sense of the difference between good and evil, our penitence, our aspiration, all this
moral freight with which our souls are laden, is a cargo consigned to an unseen country. Our
bill of lading reads, "To the immortal life." If we must sink in mid-ocean, then all is lost,
and the voyage of life is a predestined wreck.

The wisest, the strongest, the best of mankind, have felt this most deeply. The faith in immortality
belongs to the childhood of the race, and the greatest of the sages have always returned to
it and taken refuge in it. Socrates and Plato, Cicero and Plutarch, Montesquieu and Franklin,
Kant and Emerson, Tennyson and Browning,--how do they all bear witness to the incompleteness
of life and reach out to a completion beyond the grave.

    "No great Thinker ever lived and taught you
    All the wonder that his soul received;
    No great Painter ever set on canvas
    All the glorious vision he conceived.

    "No Musician ever held your spirit
    Charmed and bound in his melodious chains;
    But, be sure, he heard, and strove to render,
    Feeble echoes of celestial strains.

    "No real Poet ever wove in numbers
    All his dream, but the diviner part,
    Hidden from all the world, spake to him only
    In the voiceless silence of his heart.

    "So with Love: for Love and Art united
    Are twin mysteries: different yet the same;
    Poor indeed would be the love of any
    Who could find its full and perfect name.

    "Love may strive; but vain is its endeavour
    All its boundless riches to unfold;
    Still its tenderest, truest secret lingers
    Ever in its deepest depths untold.

    "Things of Time have voices: speak and perish.
    Art and Love speak; but their words must be
    Like sighings of illimitable forests
    And waves of an unfathomable sea."

And can it be that death shall put the final seal of irretrievable ruin on all this uncompleted
effort? Can it be that the grave shall whelm all this unuttered love in endless silence? Ah,
what a wild waste of precious treasure, what a mad destruction of fair designs, what an utter
failure, life would be if death must end all!

The very reasonableness of our nature, our sense of order, declare the impotence of Death to
create such a wreck. And most of all our deep affections cry out against the conclusion of
despair. They will not hear of dissolution. They reach out their hands into the darkness. They
demand and they promise an unending fellowship, a deepening communion, a more perfect satisfaction.
Do you remember what Thackeray wrote?

To deny this instinct is to deny that which lies at the very root of our life. If love perishes
with death, then our affections are our worst curses, the world is the cruellest torture-house,
and "all things work together for evil to those who love." Do you believe it? Is it possible?
Nay, all that is best and noblest and purest within us rejects such a faith in Absolute Evil
as the power that has created and rules the world. In the presence of love we feel that we
behold that which must belong to a good God and therefore cannot die. Destruction cannot touch
it. The grave cannot hold it. Loving and being loved, we dare to stand in the very doorway
of the tomb, and assert the power of an endless life.

And it seems to me that this courage never comes to us so fully as when we are brought in closest
contact with death, when we are brought face to face with that dread shadow and forced either
to deny its power, once and forever, or to give up everything and die with our hopes. I wish
that I could make this clear to you as it lies in my own experience. Perhaps in trying to do
it I should speak closer to your own heart than in any other way.

A flower grew in your garden. You delighted in its beauty and fragrance. It gave you all it
had to give, but it did not love you. It could not. When the time came for it to die, you were
sorry. But it did not seem to you strange or unnatural. There was no waste. Its mission was
fulfilled. You understood why its petals should fall, its leaf wither, its root and branch
decay. And even if a storm came and snapped it, still there was nothing lost that was indispensable,
nothing that could not be restored.

A child grew in your household, dearly loved and answering your love. You saw that soul unfold,
learning to know the evil from the good, learning to accept duty and to resist selfishness,
learning to be brave and true and kind, learning to give you day by day a deeper and a richer
sympathy, learning to love God and to pray and to be good. And then perhaps you saw that young
heart being perfected under the higher and holier discipline of suffering, bearing pain patiently,
facing trouble and danger like a hero, not shrinking even from the presence of death, but trusting
all to your love and to God's, and taking just what came from day to day, from hour to hour.
And then suddenly the light went out in the shining eyes. The brave heart stopped. The soul
was gone. Lost, perished, blotted out forever in the darkness of death? Ah, no; you know better
than that. That clear, dawning intelligence, that deepening love, that childlike faith in God,
that pure innocence of soul, did not come from the dust. How could they return thither? The
music ceases because the instrument is broken. But the player is not dead. He is learning a
better music. He is finding a more perfect instrument. It is impossible that he should be holden
of death. God wastes nothing so precious.

But I am sure that we must go further than this in order to understand the full strength and
comfort of the text. The assertion of the impotence of death to end all is based upon something
deeper than the prophecy of immortality in the human heart. It has a stronger foundation than
the outreachings of human knowledge and moral effort towards a higher state in which completion
may be attained. It has a more secure ground to rest upon than the deathless affection with
which our love clings to its object The impotence of death is revealed to us in the spiritual
perfection of Christ.

Here then, in the "power of an endless life," I find the corner-stone of peace on earth among
men of good-will Take this mortal life as a thing of seventy years, more or less, to which
death puts a final period, and you have nothing but confusion, chance and futility,--nothing
safe, nothing realized, nothing completed. Evil often triumphs. Virtue often is defeated.

                       "The good die young,
    And we whose hearts are dry as summer dust
    Burn to the socket."

But take death, as Christ teaches us, not as a full stop, but as only a comma in the story
of an endless life, and then the whole aspect of our existence is changed. That which is material,
base, evil, drops down. That which is spiritual, noble, good, rises to lead us on.

The conviction of immortality, the forward-looking faith in a life beyond the grave, the spirit
of Easter, is essential to peace on earth for three reasons.

I. It is the only faith that lifts man's soul, which is immortal, above his body, which is
perishable. It raises him out of the tyranny of the flesh to the service of his ideals. It
makes him sure that there are things worth fighting and dying for. The fighting and the dying,
for the cause of justice and liberty, are sacrifices on the Divine altar which shall never
be forgotten.

II. Do they will meet once a week to pray for the salvation of their children until all its children
were punished-- this incident was not known until after my mother, whether the covenant then
being revealed by iii of the ages. We used to the say: "Mother, where are you going?" and
she would here state, "i am just going out a while; travel over the neighbours." They keep on
that covenant until all their families were brought into sphere of
God', myself the last, and it trace that line of phenomenon back
to evening when my grandmother be recommend our household to Christ, the
tide of influence going on this hour, and lead it will be never cease.
My mother in her seventy-sixth year.

My father, as dying passions as i can forget, was an elder in protestant.

 Yea, it knits us in bonds of love with the
coming generation. It is better than the fountain of youth. We shall know and see them as they
go on their way, long after we have left the path. The faith in immortality sets a touch of
the imperishable on every generous impulse and unselfish deed. It inspires to sublime and heroic
virtues,--spiritual splendours,--deeds of sacrifice and suffering for which earth has no adequate
recompense, but whose reward is great in heaven. Here is the patience of the saints, the glorious
courage of patriots, martyrs, and confessors, something more bright and shining than secular
morality can bring forth,--a flashing of the inward light which fails not, but grows clearer
as death draws near. What noble evidences of this come to us out of the great war.

"Are you in great distress?" asked a nurse of an American soldier whose legs had been shot
away on the battle-field. "I am in as great peace," said he, "through Jesus my Lord, as a man
can possibly be, out of Paradise."

A secretary of the Y.M.C.A., the night before he was killed, wrote to his father: "I have not
been sent here to die: I am to fight: I offer my life for future generations; I shall not die,
I shall merely change my direction. He who walks before us is so great that we cannot lose
Him from sight."

A simple French boy, grievously wounded, is dying in the ambulance. He is a Protestant The
nurse who bends over him is a Catholic sister. She writes down his words as they fall slowly
from his lips: "O my God, let Thy will be done and not mine. O my God, Thou knowest that I
never wished war, but that I have fought because it was Thy will; I offered my life so that
peace might prevail. O my God, I pray for all my dear ones, ... father, mother, brothers, sisters.
Give a hundredfold to those nurses for all they have done for me. I pray for them one and all."

Here, in the midst of carnage and confusion, horror and death, was perfect peace, the triumph
of immortality.

