There is another link equally strong. In a number of the larger mounds on the sites of the
"over-hill towns," in Blount and Loudon Counties, Tenn., saucer-shaped beds of burnt clay,
one above another, alternating with layers of coals and ashes, were found. Similar beds were
also found in the mounds at Charleston. These are also unusual, and, so far as I am aware,
have been found only in these two localities. Possibly they are outgrowths of the clay altars
of the Ohio mounds, and, if so, reveal to us the probable use of these strange structures.
They were places where captives were tortured and burned, the most common sacrifices the Indians
were accustomed to make. Be this supposition worthy of consideration or not, it is a fact worthy
of notice in this connection that in one of the large mounds in this Kanawha group one of the
so-called "clay altars" was found at the bottom of precisely the same pattern as those found
by Squier and Davis in the mounds of Ohio.

In these mounds were also found wooden vaults, constructed In exactly the same manner as that
in the lower part of the Grave Creek mound; also others of the pattern of those found in the
Ohio mounds, in which bark wrappings were used to enshroud the dead. Hammered copper bracelets,
hematite celts and hemispheres, and mica plates, so characteristic of the Ohio tumuli, were
also discovered here; and, as in East Tennessee and Ohio, we find at the bottom of mounds in
this locality the post-holes or little pits which have recently excited considerable attention.
We see another connecting link in the circular and rectangular inclosures, not combined as
in Ohio, but analogous, and, considering the restricted area of the narrow valley, bearing
as strong resemblance as might be expected if the builders of the two localities were one people.

It would be unreasonable to assume that all these similarities in customs, most of which are
abnormal, are but accidental coincidences due to necessity and environment. On the contrary
it will probably be conceded that the testimony adduced and the reasons presented justify the
conclusion that the ancestors of the Cherokees were the builders of some at least of the typical
works of Ohio; or, at any rate, that they entitle this conclusion to favorable consideration.
Few, if any, will longer doubt that the Cherokees were mound builders in their historic seats
in North Carolina and Tennessee. Starting with this basis, and taking the mound testimony,
of which not even a tithe has been presented, the tradition of the Cherokees, the statement
of Haywood, the Delaware tradition as given by Heckewelder, the Bark Record as published by
Brinton and interpreted by Hale, and the close resemblance between the names Tallegwi and Chellakee,
it would seem that there can remain little doubt that the two peoples were identical.

It is at least apparent that the ancient works of the Kanawha Valley and other parts of West
Virginia are more nearly related to those of Ohio than to those of any other region, and hence
they may justly be attributed to the same or cognate tribes. The general movement, therefore,
must have been southward as indicated, and the exit of the Ohio mound-builders was, in all
probability, up the Kanawha Valley on the same line that the Cherokees appear to have followed
in reaching their historical locality. It is a singular fact and worthy of being mentioned
here, that among the Cherokee names signed to the treaty made between the United States and
this tribe at Tellico, in 1798, are the following: [Footnote: Treaties between the United States
of America and the several Indian tribes (1837), p. 182.] Tallotuskee, Chellokee, Yonaheguah,
Keenakunnah, and Teekakatoheeunah, which strongly suggest relationship to names found in the
Allegheny region, although the latter come to us through the Delaware tongue.

