In the course of these tribulations we became somewhat separated. Johnny and I found ourselves
riding along in company, and much too busy to talk. As we neared a small group of natives under
a tree, three of them started toward us on a run, shouting something. We stopped, and drew
together.

One of the assailants seized Johnny's animal by the bit, and another's gesture commanded him
to dismount.

"Get out of that!" shouted Johnny threateningly; and as the men did not obey his emphatic tone,
he snatched out his Colt's pistol. I closed in next him and did the same.

Our threatening attitude caused the men to draw back a trifle; but they redoubled their vociferations.
Johnny attempted to spur his mule forward; but all three threw themselves in his way. The rest
of the natives, four in number, joined the group. They pointed at Johnny's animal, motioned
peremptorily for him to descend; and one of them ventured again to seize his bridle.

"I don't believe it's robbery, anyhow," said I. "They seem to recognize your mule. Probably
you're riding a stolen animal."

"I don't know anything about that," said Johnny, a trifle angrily, "but I do know I hired it
to go to Panama with: and to Panama I'm going. They can settle their mule question afterward."

But when he gathered his reins again, he was prevented from going on. Johnny reached suddenly
forward and struck with his pistol barrel at the head of the man holding his rein. He missed
by the fraction of an inch; and the man leaped back with a cry of rage. Everybody yelled and
drew near as though for a rush. Johnny and I cocked our weapons.

At this moment we heard Talbot Ward's voice from beyond. "Take 'em from that side!" yelled
Johnny excitedly. "Give it to 'em, Tal!"

Talbot shouted again, in Spanish. Every brigand in the lot immediately turned in his direction,
shouting perfect fountains of words. After a moment Talbot, afoot, emerged from the jungle
and calmly picked his way through the mud toward us.

"Put up your shooting irons," he grinned at us. "These men tell me your saddle pad is on crooked
and they want to straighten it for you."

Johnny, and I am sure myself, turned red; then everybody howled with glee. Johnny dismounted,
and a dozen eager hands adjusted the harness. We shook hands all around, laughed some more,
and resumed our very sloppy journey.

This to me was one of the most terrible days I ever spent. We passed dozens of dead mules,
and vultures that sat in trees; and exhausted men lying flat as though dead; and sick men shaken
with fever; and one poor wretch, whom we picked up and took with us, who had actually lain
down to die. He was half raving with fever, and as near as we could make out had had companions.
We twisted him aboard a mule, and took turns walking alongside and holding him on. Beyond the
fact that he was a very small individual with light hair and an English accent, we could tell
nothing about him. He was suffering from cholera, although we did not know that at the time.
That night we spent at a wayside hut, where we left our patient.

Early the next morning we began to ascend a little; and so came to a rocky tableland with palms,
and beyond it another ridge of hills. We climbed that ridge and descended the other side. Another
elevation lay before us. This we surmounted, only to find a third. After we had put a dozen
such ranges behind us, we made the mistake of thinking the next was sure to be the last. We
got up our hopes a number of times in this fashion, then fell dully into a despair of ever
getting anywhere. The day was fearfully hot. The Indian who had stolidly preceded us as guide
at last stopped, washed his feet carefully in a wayside mud hole and put on his pantaloons.

"That looks to me like an encouraging symptom," I remarked.

Shortly after we entered the city of Panama.

CHAPTER VIII

PANAMA

We arrived early in the afternoon, and we were all eyes; for here was a city taken directly
from the pages of the Boy's Own Pirate. Without the least effort of the imagination we could
see Morgan or Kidd or some other old swashbuckler, cutlass in teeth, pistols in hand, broad
sashed, fierce and ruthless rushing over the walls or through the streets, while the cathedral
bells clanged wildly and women screamed. Everything about it was of the past; for somehow the
modern signs of American invasion seemed temporary and to be blown away. Vegetation and vines
grew in every crevice; and I saw many full-sized trees rooted in midair. The place was strongly
fanciful; and I loved to linger there. To me the jungle seemed like an insidiously beautiful
creature enveloping thus, little by little, its unsuspecting prey. The old gray tumbled ruins
seemed to be lost in dreams of their ancient days. And through the arches and the empty corridors
open to the sky breathed a melancholy air from a past so dead and gone and buried and forgotten
that of it remained no echo, no recollection, no knowledge, nothing but squared and tumbled stones.

To tell the truth I generally had these reflections quite to myself. The body of the town was
much more exciting. The old dilapidated and picturesque houses had taken on a new and temporary
smartness of modernity--consisting mainly of canvas signs. The main street was of hotels, eating
houses, and assorted hells. It was crowded day and night, for we found something over a thousand
men here awaiting the chance of transportation. Some had been here a long time, and were broke
and desperate. A number of American gambling joints did a good business. Native drinking houses
abounded. The natives were in general a showy lot, but too lazy even to do a good job at fleecing
the stranger within their gates. That was therefore undertaken--and most competently--by the
enterprising foreigners of all nations. Foreigners kept two of the three hotels, as is indicated
by their names--Hotel Française Fonda Americano, and the Washington House. Americans ran the
gambling joints. French and Germans, mainly, kept the restaurants.

We stopped over one day at the Fonda Americano; and then realizing that we were probably in
for a long wait, found two rooms in a house off the main street. These we rented from a native
at a fairly reasonable rate. They were in the second story of a massive stone ruin whose walls
had been patched up with whitewash. The rooms were bare and geometrically cat-a-cornered and
extraordinarily chilly, like vaults; but they gave out on a charmingly unkempt walled garden
with a stone fountain in the middle whose features were all rounded by time and blurred with
moss, with tall ragged bananas and taller wind-swept palms, and a creeping lush tangle of old
plants, and the damp soft greenness of moss and the elfin tinkling of little waters. On our
balcony the sun shone strong; so that we could warm our chilled bones gratefully like lizards
against a wall.

We tried all the restaurants, one after the other, and found them about equally bad. We also
went in--once--for a real Spanish dinner. It consisted of a succession of dishes highly seasoned
with the hottest sort of pepper, generally drowned in rich gravy, and composed of such things
as cheese, chunks of meat, corn meal, and the like. Any one of these dishes would have been
a fine strength test for the average unsophisticated stomach; but your true Spanish dinner
consists of a dozen of them. We had horrible indigestion.

In one place, kept by a German, we were treated very disagreeably, and overcharged so badly
that Yank vowed he intended to get even. As to just how he was going to do it, he maintained
a deep silence; but he advised us he would eat there the following evening. Also he asked four
or five other men, with whom we had become friendly, to meet us at the restaurant. We met,
ate our meal leisurely, and had a very good time.

"Now," said Yank to us, "when we get up, you fellows all go right out the front door and keep
going until you get to the Fonda bar, and there you wait for me. No lingering, now. Do as you
are told."

We did as we were told. After about fifteen or twenty minutes Yank sauntered in.

"Now," said Johnny, "I hope you'll explain. We're much obliged for your dinner party, but we
want to know what it is all about."

"Well," chuckled Yank, "I just dealt the Dutchman what you might call idle persiflage until
you fellows had been gone a few minutes, and then I held him out my dollar. 'What's that?'
says he. 'That's a dollar,' says I, 'to pay for my dinner.' 'How about all those other fellows?'
says he. 'I got nothing to do with them,' says I. 'They can pay for their own dinners,' and
after a while I come away. He was having some sort of Dutch fit, and I got tired of watching him."

Outside the walls of the city was a large encampment of tents in which dwelt the more impecunious
or more economical of the miners. Here too had been located a large hospital tent. There was
a great deal of sickness, due to the hardships of the journey, the bad climate, irregular living,
the overeating of fruit, drinking, the total lack of sanitation. In fact only the situation
of the city--out on an isthmus in the sea breezes--I am convinced, saved us from pestilence.
Every American seemed to possess a patent medicine of some sort with which he dosed himself
religiously in and out of season. A good many, I should think, must have fallen victims to
these nostrums.

Each morning regularly we went down to harass the steamship employees. Roughly speaking some
three hundred of us had bought through passage before leaving New York: and it was announced
that only fifty-two additional to those already aboard could be squeezed into the first steamer.
The other two hundred and forty-eight would have to await the next. Naturally every man was
determined that he would not be left; for such a delay, in such a place, at the time of a gold
rush was unthinkable. The officials at that steamship office had no easy time. Each man wanted
first of all to know just when the ship was to be expected; a thing no one could guess. Then
he demanded his accommodations; and had a dozen reasons why his claim should be preferred over
that of the others. I never saw a more quarrelsome noisy dog-kennel than that steamship office.
Why no one was ever shot there I could not tell you.

After bedevilling the officials for a time, our business for the day was over. We had the privilege
of sauntering through the streets, of walking down the peninsula or of seating ourselves in
any of the numerous bars or gambling halls. All were interesting; though neither the streets
nor the gambling places were in full action until late afternoon.

About four o'clock, or half after, when the invariable siesta was over, the main street began
to fill with idlers. The natives wore white, with wide soft straw hats, and lounged along with
considerable grace. They were a weak, unenergetic, inoffensive race, always ready to get off
the sidewalk for other nations provided the other nations swaggered sufficiently. The women,
I remember, had wonderful piles of glossy black hair, arranged in bands and puffs, in which
they stuck cigars. The streets were very narrow. When a vehicle came along, we all had to make
way for it; as also for the gangs of prisoners connected with heavy iron chains around their
necks. These were very numerous; and I can hear yet, as the leading notes of the place, the
clinking of their chains, and the cracked jangling of some of the many cathedral bells.

There was a never-failing joy to us also in poking around the odd places of the town. The dim
interiors of cathedrals, the splashed stones of courtyards, the shadows of doorways, the privacies
of gardens all lured us; and we saw many phases of native life. Generally we were looked on
at first with distrust. There were a number of roughs among the gold seekers; men whose brutal
instincts or whose merely ignorant love of horseplay had now for the first time no check. They
found that the native could be pushed off the sidewalk, so they pushed him off. I once saw
a number of these men light their cigars at altar candles. But Talbot's Spanish and our own
demeanour soon gained us admission.

Thus we ran across a most delightful institution. We were rambling in a very obscure portion
of town when we came to quite a long wall unbroken save by a little wicket gate. A bell pull
seemed to invite investigation; so we gave it a heave. Almost immediately the gate swung open
and we entered.

We found ourselves in a wide space paved with smooth great slabs of rocks, wet as though from
a recent rain. The space was thickly built up by small round huts of reeds, but without roofs.
In the centre was a well, probably ten or twelve feet wide, over which slanted a cross arm
and wheel for the drawing of water. No human being was in sight; the gate had been unlatched
by an overhead cord.

We shouted. In a minute or so a very irascible old woman hobbled to us from some mysterious
lurking place among the reed huts. She spoke impatiently. Talbot questioned her; she replied
briefly, then turned and hobbled off as fast as she could go.

"What did she say?" some one asked Talbot curiously.

"She said," replied Ward, "literally this: 'Why don't you take any of them without bothering
me? They are all ready.' I imagine she must mean these bird cages; though what they are for
I couldn't tell you."

We investigated the nearest. It was divided into two tiny rooms each just big enough to hold
a man. In one was a three legged stool; in the other stood two tall graceful jars of red clay,
their sides bedewed with evaporation. A dipper made from a coconut lay across the top of one
of them.

"Bath house!" shouted Johnny, enchanted.

The water in the porous earthen jars was cold. We took each a hut and poured the icy stuff
over us to our heart's content. All except Yank. He looked on the proceedings we thought with
some scorn; and departed carrying his long rifle.

"Hey!" shouted Johnny finally, "where's the towels?"

To this inquiry we could find no substantial answer. There were no towels. The old woman declined
to come to our yells. She was on hand, however, when we were ready to depart, and took one
American dime as payment for the three of us. This was the only cheap thing we found in Panama.
We came every day, after the hour of siesta--with towels. Yank refused steadfastly to indulge.

"I'm having hard enough dodging to keep clear of fever'n ager now," he told us. "You don't
seem to recollect what neck of the woods I come from. It's a fever'n ager country out there
for keeps. They can't keep chickens there at all."

"Why not?" asked Johnny innocently.

"The chills they get shakes all the feathers off'n 'em," replied Yank, "and then they freeze
to death."

In the evening the main street was a blaze of light, and the by-ways were cast in darkness.
The crowd was all afoot, and moved restlessly to and fro from one bar or gambling hell to another.
Of the thousand or so of strangers we came in time to recognize by sight a great many. The
journey home through the dark was perilous. We never attempted it except in company; and as
Johnny seemed fascinated with a certain game called Mexican monte, we often had to endure long
waits before all our party was assembled.

One morning our daily trip to the steamship office bore fruit. We found the plaza filled with
excited men; all talking and gesticulating. The much tired officials had evolved a scheme,
beautiful in its simplicity, for deciding which fifty-two of the three hundred should go by
the first ship. They announced that at eleven o'clock they would draw lots.

This was all very well, but how did the general public know that the lots would be drawn fairly?

The officials would permit a committee of citizens to be present.

Not by the eternal! Where would you get any one to serve? No member of that committee would
dare accept his own ticket, provided he drew one. No one would believe it had been done honestly.

Very well. Then let fifty-two out of three hundred slips of paper be marked. Each prospective
passenger could then draw one slip out of a box.

"It's all right, boys," the observers yelled back at those clamouring in the rear.

One of the officials stood on a barrel holding the box, while a clerk with a list of names
sat below.

"As I call the names, will each gentleman step forward and draw his slip?" announced the official.

We were all watching with our mouths open intensely interested.

"Did you ever hear of such a damfool way of doing the thing?" said Talbot. "Here, give me a
boost up!"

Johnny and I raised him on our shoulders.

"Gentlemen! gentlemen!" he cried a number of times before he could be heard above the row.
Finally they gave him attention.

"I'm a ticket holder in this thing; and I want to see it done right. I want to ask that gentleman
there what is to prevent the wrong man from answering to a name, from drawing a slip without
having any right to?"

"The right man will prevent him," answered a voice. The crowd laughed.

"Well, who's to decide, in case of dispute, which is the right man and which the wrong man?
And what's to prevent any man, after the drawing, from marking a blank slip--or making a new
slip entirely?"

"That's right!" "Correct!" shouted several voices.

The officials consulted hurriedly. Then one of them announced that the drawing would be postponed
until the following morning. Each was to bring his steamship ticket with him. The winners in
the drawing must be prepared to have their tickets countersigned on the spot. With this understanding
we dispersed.

This was Talbot Ward's first public appearance; the first occasion in which he called himself
to the attention of his fellows assembled in public meeting. The occasion was trivial, and
it is only for this reason that I mention it. His personality at once became known, and remembered;
and I recollect that many total strangers spoke to him that evening.

By next morning the transportation officials had worked it out. We could not all get into the
office, so the drawing took place on the Plaza outside. As each man's name was called, he stepped
forward, showed his ticket, and was allowed to draw a slip from the box. If it proved to be
a blank, he went away; if he was lucky, he had his ticket viséd on the spot. Such a proceeding
took the greater part of the day; but the excitement remained intense. No one thought of leaving
even for the noon meal.

Yank drew passage on the first steamer. Talbot, Johnny, and I drew blanks.

We walked down to the shore to talk over the situation.

"We ought to have bought tickets good on this particular ship, not merely good on this line,"
said Johnny.

"Doesn't matter what we ought to have done," rejoined Talbot a little impatiently. "What are
we going to do? Are we going to wait here until the next steamer comes along?"

"That's likely to be two or three months--nobody knows," said Johnny.

"No; it's in six weeks, I believe. They tell me they've started regular trips on a new mail
contract."

"Well, six weeks. If we stay in this hole we'll all be sick; we'll be broke; and in the meantime
every ounce of gold in the country will have been picked up."

"What's the alternative?" I asked.

"Sailing vessel," said Talbot briefly.

"That's mighty uncertain," I objected. "Nobody knows when one will get in; and when it does
show up it'll be a mad scramble to get to her. There's a mob waiting to go."

"Well, it's one or the other. We can't walk; and I don't see that the situation is going to
be much better when the next steamer does get here. There are a couple of hundred to crowd
in on her--just counting those who are here and have tickets. And then there will be a lot more."

"I'm for the sailing vessel," said Johnny. "They come in every week or two now; and if we can't
make the first one, we'll have a good chance at the second or the third."

Talbot looked at me inquiringly.

"Sounds reasonable," I admitted.

"Then we've no time to lose," said Talbot decisively, and turned away toward the town.

Yank, who had listened silently to our brief discussion, shifted his rifle to his shoulder
and followed. Shortly he fell behind; and we lost him.

We accompanied Talbot in some bewilderment, for there was no ship in sight nor in prospect,
and we could not understand any reason for this haste. Talbot led the way directly to the steamship
office.

"I want to see Brown," he asserted, naming the chief agent for the company.

The clerk hesitated: Brown was an important man and not to be disturbed for trivial matters.
But Talbot's eye could be very assured.

"What is your business with Mr. Brown?" asked the clerk.

"It is with Mr. Brown," said Talbot firmly, "and I may add that it is to Mr. Brown's own interest
to see me. Tell him just that, and that Mr. Talbot Ward of New York City desires an immediate
interview."

The clerk was gone for some moments, to the manifest annoyance of a dozen miners who wanted
his attention. When he returned he motioned us to a screened-off private office in the rear.

"Mr. Brown will see you," said he.

We found Brown to be a florid, solidly built man of fifty, with a keen eye and a brown beard.
He nodded to us briefly and looked expectant.

"We three men," said Talbot directly, "hold three tickets on your line. We were not fortunate
enough to get passage on the next steamer, and our business will not permit us to wait until
the one after. We want our money back."

Brown's face darkened.

"That is a matter for my clerks, not for me," he said curtly. "I was told your business was
to my advantage. I have nothing to do with tickets."

"One minute," said Talbot. "There are between two and three hundred men in this town each one
of whom bought a ticket from your company in New York in the expectation, if not under the
understanding, that they were to get through passage immediately."

"No such thing was expected or guaranteed," interposed Brown abruptly.

"Not guaranteed, nor expected by you--by us, yes."

"I cannot argue that matter. I have no further time for you. Good-day." And Brown once more
reached his hand toward his bell.

"Suppose," said Talbot softly, leaning forward. "I should put it into the heads of those three
hundred men that they ought to get their passage money back?"

Brown's hand stopped in midair.

"They are large, violent, armed men; and they are far from pure home influences," went on Talbot
mockingly. "Here's a sample of them," said he indicating my huge frame. "And there are a thousand
or so more, not directly interested but dying for excitement."

"Are you trying to intimidate me, sir?" demanded Brown.

"I am just stating conditions."

"You are threatening me."

"Ah, that is different," said Talbot Ward.

Brown sat lost in thought for some moments. Then he reached forward and at last struck the bell.

"Let me have your tickets," he commanded us shortly.

He endorsed them and handed them to the clerk, together with a written order. We all sat in
absolute silence for perhaps five minutes. Then the clerk returned with a handful of gold.
This Brown counted over and shoved across to Talbot. The latter also counted it, and thrust
it in his pocket.

"Now," said Brown, with something approaching geniality, "I am counting on your honour to say
nothing of this outside. I am gambling on your evident class in life at home."

"You have our promise, and it will be kept," said Talbot rising. "But undoubtedly within two
days you will think I am the biggest liar unhung. There will be many more who will think of
this same simple plan of getting a refund on their tickets and who will blab it out to every
one on the street. You would do well to make your plans now as to how you intend to deal with
them. But remember, I, nor my friends, will have had nothing to do with it."

"I understand that there will be plenty making your same demand," said Brown, "but I doubt
any of them will think of urging that demand."

We left. As a matter of interest, Talbot's prediction was correct; as, indeed, Brown had immediately
recognized it would be. Talbot had only the advantage of thinking a little quicker than the
next man, of acting immediately, and of allowing no time for reflection to the other. The steamship
office had a strenuous time. Talbot's threat had this much of real significance: that there
was, lacking him, no organized demonstration. Each man went for himself and demanded his money
back. In a few rare cases he got it; but was generally bluffed out, or blandly referred back
to the New York offices, or reasoned out. The situation came near to riot, but in some difficult
manner it was tided over. A few settled down to wait for the next steamer. The majority decided
for sailing ships, and pocketed their steamer tickets in hopes of future reimbursement. One
score of fanatics and ignoramuses, in dense ignorance as to the nature of the journey, actually
started out to row to San Francisco in an open boat! They were never heard of again. One or
two parties modified this plan by proceeding in fishing boats to the extremity of the peninsula
of Lower California, and thence marched overland to San Diego. Their sufferings in that arid
region were great, but they managed to arrive many months later.

We returned to our lodgings, congratulating Talbot on the promptitude of his action, for already
we saw determined looking men hurrying across the plaza toward the offices.

At our place we found that Yank had not returned. At first we thought nothing of this; but
about dusk we found that all his belongings had disappeared.

CHAPTER IX

NORTHWARD HO!

We could not understand this sudden departure, except on the possible ground that Yank, realizing
that now the party must split forces, had decided to seek new companions among those lucky
enough to sail on the first steamer.

"Even then he needn't have been in such a hurry," complained Johnny a trifle bitterly. "And
he needn't have thought we'd be in his way."

"Has he paid his share of the lodgings?" it occurred to me to ask.

We felt quite bitter against Yank, and we carefully avoided his usual haunts, for we did not
want to meet him. Then we began to think it strange we had not run across him somewhere on
the streets. Then we began to look for him. We found that Yank had disappeared!

At that, a little alarmed, we set ourselves to a serious search and inquiry. A few remembered
to have seen him, but were vague as to when and where. The authorities moved sluggishly, and
with little enthusiasm. Men were dying every day; and disappearing underground, leaving no
trace of themselves behind. One more or less seemed unimportant.

In the meanwhile we spent much of our time by the shore, together with a comfortable majority
of our fellow argonauts, awaiting the sighting of a vessel. We had engaged, and paid daily,
a boatman to be in readiness to take us off; and we settled our lodgings account a week ahead.

"There's going to be a scramble for that blessed ship," said Talbot; "and we'll just be prepared."

To that end we also kept our effects packed and ready for instant removal.

The beach was not a bad place. It ran out the peninsula in a long gentle curve; and the surges
broke snow white on yellow sands. Across deep blue water was an island; and back of us palm
trees whipped in the trade winds. We sat under them, and yarned and played cards and smoked.
In bad weather--and it rained pretty often--we huddled in smoky little huts; those of us who
could get in. The rest tried to stick it out; or returned with rather a relieved air to the town.

The expected ship came, of course, on one of these dull gray days; and those who had thought
themselves unlucky in being crowded out of the huts were the first to sight her. They sneaked
down very quietly and tried to launch two of the boats. Of course the native boatmen were all
inside; trust them! As a high surf was running, and as none of the men were in any sense good
boatmen, they promptly broached to and filled. The noise brought us to the door.

Then there was a fine row. One of the two boats commandeered by the early birds happened to
be ours! All our forethought seemed to have been in vain. The bedraggled and crestfallen men
were just wading ashore when we descended upon them. Talbot was like a raving lunatic.

"You hounds!" he roared. "Don't you dare try to sneak off! You catch hold here and help empty
these boats! You would, would you?" He caught one escaping worthy by the collar and jerked
him so rapidly backward that his heels fairly cracked together. Johnny flew to combat with
a chuckle of joy. I contented myself by knocking two of them together until they promised to
be good. The four we had collared were very meek. We all waded into the wash where the boat
lay sluggishly rolling. It is no easy matter to empty a boat in that condition. Water weighs
a great deal; is fearfully inert, or at least feels so; and has a bad habit of promptly slopping
in again. We tugged and heaved, and rolled and hauled until our joints cracked; but at last
we got her free.

In the meantime forty other boats had been launched and were flying over the waves halfway
between the shore and the ship.

Talbot was swearing steadily and with accuracy; Johnny was working like a crazy man; I was
heaving away at the stern and keeping an eye on our involuntary helpers. The boatman, beside
himself with frantic excitement, jabbered and ran about and screamed directions that no one
understood. About all we were accomplishing now was the keeping of that boat's head straight
against the heavy wash.

It seemed as though we tugged thus at cross purposes for an hour. In reality it was probably
not over two or three minutes. Then Talbot regained sufficient control to listen to the boatman.
At once he calmed down.

"Here, boys," said he, "ease her backward. You, Johnny, stand by at the bow and hold her head
on. Frank and I will give her a shove at the stern. When the time comes, I'll yell and you
pile right in, Johnny. Vamos, Manuel!"

We took our places; the boatman at the oars, his eyes over his shoulder watching keenly the
in-racing seas.

The four dripping culprits looked at each other uncertainly, and one of them started to climb
in the boat.

"Well, for God's sake!" screeched Talbot, and made a headlong bull rush for the man.

The latter tumbled right out of the boat on his back in the shallow water. His three companions
fled incontinently up the beach, where he followed them as soon as he could scramble to his feet.

Manuel said something sharply, without looking around.

"Shove!" screeched Talbot. "Pile in, Johnny!"

We bent our backs. The boat resisted, yielded, gathered headway. It seemed to be slipping away
from me down a steep hill.

"Jump in!" yelled Talbot.

I gave a mighty heave and fell over the stern into the bottom of the boat. Waters seemed to
be crashing by; but by the time I had gathered myself together and risen to my knees, we were
outside the line of breakers, and dancing like a gull over the smooth broad surges.

Ships could anchor no nearer than about a mile and a half offshore. By the time we had reached
the craft she was surrounded by little boats bobbing and rubbing against her sides. She proved
to be one of that very tubby, bluff-bowed type then so commonly in use as whalers and freighters.
The decks swarmed black with an excited crowd.

We rowed slowly around her. We were wet, and beginning to chill. No way seemed to offer by
which we could reach her decks save by difficult clambering, for the gang ladder was surrounded
ten deep by empty boats. A profound discouragement succeeded the excitement under which we
had made our effort.

"To hell with her!" snarled Johnny, "There's no sense going aboard her. There's enough on deck
now to fill her three times over. Let's get back where it's warm."

"If I run across any of those fellows in town I'll break their necks!" said I.

"What makes me mad----" continued Johnny.

"Oh, for heaven's sake shut up!" cried Talbot.

If he had been a little less cold and miserable we probably would have quarrelled. As it was,
we merely humped over, and motioned the astonished Manuel to return to the shore. Our boat's
head turned, we dropped down under the bow of the ship. In order to avoid the sweep of the
seas Manuel held us as closely as possible under the bowsprit. We heard a hail above us. Looking
up we saw Yank bending over the rail.

We stared at him, our mouths open, so astonished that for a moment we did not even think to
check the boat. Then we came back in a clumsy circle. Yank yelled at us; and we yelled back
at him; but so great was the crash of waters and the whistling of wind that we could make out
nothing. Then Yank motioning us to remain where we were, disappeared, to return after a short
interval, with a speaking trumpet.

"Have you got your baggage with you?" he roared.

We shook our heads and waved our arms.

"Go get it!" he ordered.

We screamed something back at him.

"Go get it!" he repeated; and withdrew his head entirely.

We rowed back to town; it was no longer necessary to return to the exposed beach where we had
waited to sight the ships. Johnny and I indulged in much excited speculation, but Talbot refused
to show curiosity.

"He's there, and he's evidently engaged us passage; and he wants us aboard to claim it," said
he, "and that's all we can know now; and that's enough for me."

On our way we met a whole fleet of boats racing their belated way from town. We grinned sardonically
over the plight of these worthies. A half-hour sufficed us to change our clothes, collect our
effects, and return to the water front. On the return journey we crossed the same fleet of
boats inward bound. Their occupants looked generally very depressed.

Yank met us at the top of the gangway, and assisted us in getting our baggage aboard. Johnny
and I peppered him with questions, to which he vouchsafed no answer. When we had paid off the
boatman, he led the way down a hatch into a very dark hole near the bows. A dim lantern swayed
to and fro, through the murk we could make out a dozen bunks.

"They call this the fo'cas'le," said Yank placidly. "Crew sleeps here. This is our happy home.
Everything else full up. We four," said he, with a little flash of triumph, "are just about
the only galoots of the whole b'iling at Panama that gets passage. She's loaded to the muzzle
with men that's come away around the Horn in her; and the only reason she stopped in here at
all is to get a new thing-um-a-jig of some sort that she had lost or busted or something."

"Well, I don't like my happy home while she wobbles so," said Johnny. "I'm going to be seasick,
as usual. But for heaven's sake, Yank, tell us where you came from, and all about it. And make
it brief, for I'm going to be seasick pretty soon."

He lay down in one of the bunks and closed his eyes.

"You'd much better come up on deck into the fresh air," said Talbot.

"Fire ahead, Yank! Please!" begged Johnny.

"Well," said Yank, "when I drew that steamer ticket, it struck me that somebody might want
it a lot more than I did, especially as you fellows drew blank. So I hunted up a man who was
in a hurry, and sold it to him for five hundred dollars. Then I hired one of these sail-rigged
fishing boats and laid in grub for a week and went cruising out to sea five or six miles."

Johnny opened one eye.

"Why?" he demanded feebly.

"I was figgerin' on meeting any old ship that came along a little before the crowd got at her,"
said Yank. "And judgin' by the gang's remarks that just left, I should think I'd figgered just
right."

"You bet you did," put in Talbot emphatically.

"It must have been mighty uncomfortable cruising out there in that little boat so long," said
I. "I wonder the men would stick."

"I paid them and they had to," said Yank grimly.

"Why didn't you let us in on it?" I asked.

"What for? It was only a one-man job. So then I struck this ship, and got aboard her after
a little trouble persuading her to stop. There wasn't no way of making that captain believe
we'd sleep anywheres we could except cash; so I had to pay him a good deal."

"How much?" demanded Talbot.

"It came to two hundred apiece. I'm sorry."

"Glory be!" shouted Talbot, "we're ahead of the game. Yank, you long-headed old pirate, let
me shake you by the hand!"

"I wish you fellows would go away," begged Johnny.

We went on deck. The dusk was falling, and the wind with it; and to westward an untold wealth
of gold was piling up. Our ship rolled at her anchor, awaiting the return of those of her people
who had gone ashore. On the beach tiny spots of lights twinkled where some one had built fires.
A warmth was stealing out from the shore over the troubled waters. Talbot leaned on the rail
by my side. Suddenly he chuckled explosively.

"I was just thinking," said he in explanation, "of us damfools roosting on that beach in the rain."

Thus at last we escaped from the Isthmus. At the end of twenty-four hours we had left the island
of Tobago astern, and were reaching to the north.

PART II

THE GOLDEN CITY

CHAPTER X

THE GOLDEN CITY

We stood in between the hills that guarded the bay of San Francisco about ten o'clock of an
early spring day. A fresh cold wind pursued us; and the sky above us was bluer than I had ever
seen it before, even on the Isthmus. To our right some great rocks were covered with seals
and sea lions, and back of them were hills of yellow sand. A beautiful great mountain rose
green to our left, and the water beneath us swirled and eddied in numerous whirlpools made
by the tide.

Everybody was on deck and close to the rail. We strained our eyes ahead; and saw two islands,
and beyond a shore of green hills. None of us knew where San Francisco was located, nor could
we find out. The ship's company were much too busy to pay attention to our questions. The great
opening out of the bay beyond the long narrows was therefore a surprise to us; it seemed as
vast as an inland sea. We hauled to the wind, turning sharp to the south, glided past the bold
point of rocks.

Then we saw the city concealed in a bend of the cove. It was mainly of canvas; hundreds, perhaps
thousands of tents and canvas houses scattered about the sides of hills. The flat was covered
with them, too, and they extended for some distance along the shore of the cove. A great dust,
borne by the wind that had brought us in, swept across the city like a cloud of smoke. Hundreds
and hundreds of vessels lay at anchor in the harbour, a vast fleet.

We were immediately surrounded by small boats, and our decks filled with men. We had our first
sight of the genuine miners. They proved to be as various as the points of the compass. Big
men, little men, clean men, dirty men, shaggy men, shaven men, but all instinct with an eager
life and energy I have never seen equalled. Most wore the regulation dress--a red shirt, pantaloons
tucked into the tops of boots, broad belts with sometimes silver buckles, silk Chinese sashes
of vivid raw colours, a revolver, a bowie knife, a floppy old hat. Occasionally one, more dignified
than the rest, sported a shiny top hat; but always with the red shirt. These were merchants,
and men permanently established in the town.

They addressed us eagerly, asking a thousand questions concerning the news of the outside world.
We could hardly answer them in our desire to question in return. Were the gold stories really
true? Were the diggings very far away? Were the diggings holding out? What were the chances
for newcomers? And so on without end; and the burden always of gold! gold! gold!

We were answered with the enthusiasm of an old-timer welcoming a newcomer to any country. Gold!
Plenty of it! They told us, in breathless snatches, the most marvellous tales--one sailor had
dug $17,000 in a week; another man, a farmer from New England, was taking out $5,000 to $6,000
daily. They mentioned names and places. They pointed to the harbour full of shipping. "Four
hundred ships," said they, "and hardly a dozen men aboard the lot! All gone to the mines!"
And one man snatching a long narrow buckskin bag from his pocket, shook out of its mouth to
the palm of his hand a tiny cascade of glittering yellow particles--the Dust! We shoved and
pushed, crowding around him to see this marvellous sight. He laughed in a sort of excited triumph,
and tossed the stuff into the air. The breeze caught it and scattered it wide. A number of
the little glittering particles clung to my rough coat, where they flashed like spangles.

"Plenty more where that came from!" cried the man; and turned away with a reckless laugh.

Filled with the wine of this new excitement we finally succeeded in getting ashore in one of
the ship's boats.

We landed on a flat beach of deep black sand. It was strewn from one end to the other by the
most extraordinary wreckage. There were levers, cogwheels, cranks, fans, twisted bar, and angle
iron, in all stages of rust and disintegration. Some of these machines were half buried in
the sand; others were tidily laid up on stones as though just landed. They were of copper,
iron, zinc, brass, tin, wood. We recognized the genus at a glance. They were, one and all,
patent labour-saving gold washing machines, of which we had seen so many samples aboard ship.
At this sight vanished the last remains of the envy I had ever felt for the owners of similar
contraptions.

We looked about for some sort of conveyance into which to dump our belongings. Apparently none
existed. Therefore we piled most of our effects neatly above high tide, shouldered our bundles,
and started off up the single street.

On either side this thoroughfare stood hundreds of open sheds and buildings in the course of
construction. Goods of all sorts, and in great quantity, lay beneath them, wholly or partially
exposed to the dust and weather. Many unopened bales had been left in the open air. One low
brick building of a single story seemed to be the only substantial structure in sight. We saw
quantities of calicos, silks, rich furniture, stacks of the pieces of knock-down houses, tierces
of tobacco, piles of all sorts of fancy clothing. The most unexpected and incongruous items
of luxury seemed to have been dumped down here from the corners of the earth, by the four hundred
ships swinging idly at anchor in the bay.

The street was, I think, the worst I have ever seen anywhere. It was a morass of mud, sticky
greasy mud, of some consistency, but full of water-holes and rivulets. It looked ten feet deep;
and I should certainly have ventured out on it with misgivings. And yet, incongruously enough,
the surface ridges of it had dried, and were lifting into the air in the form of dust! This
was of course my first experience with that common California phenomenon, and I was greatly
astonished.

An attempt had been made to supply footing for pedestrians. Bags of sand had been thrown down,
some rocks, a very few boxes and boards. Then our feet struck something soft and yielding,
and we found we were walking over hundred pound sacks of flour marked as from Chili. There
must have been many hundred of them. A man going in the opposite direction sidled past us.

"Cheaper than lumber," said he briefly, seeing our astonishment.

"I'd hate to ask the price of lumber," remarked one of our ship's companions, with whom--and
a number of others--we were penetrating the town. This man carried only a very neat black morocco
satchel and a net bag containing a half dozen pineapples, the last of a number he had brought
from the Isthmus. The contrast of that morocco bag with the rest of him was quite as amusing
as any we saw about us; though, of course, he did not appreciate that.

We walked on flour for a hundred feet or so, and then came to cook stoves. I mean it. A battalion
of heavy iron cook stoves had been laid side by side to form a causeway. Their weight combined
with the traffic over them had gradually pressed them down into the mud until their tops were
nearly level with the surface. Naturally the first merry and drunken joker had shied the lids
into space. The pedestrian had now either to step in and out of fire boxes or try his skill
on narrow ledges! Next we came to a double row of boxes of tobacco; then to some baled goods,
and so off onto solid ground.

We passed many people, all very intent on getting along safely. From the security of the shed
stores the proprietors and an assorted lot of loafers watched proceedings with interest. The
task of crossing the street from one side to the other, especially, was one not lightly to
be undertaken! A man had to balance, to leap, to poise; and at last probably, to teeter back
and forth trying to keep his balance like a small boy on a fence rail, until, with an oath
of disgust, he stepped off into the slime.

When we had gained the dry ground near the head of the street we threw down our burdens for a rest.

"I'll give you ten dollars for those pineapples!" offered a passerby, stopping short.

Our companion quickly closed the bargain.

"What do you think of that?" he demanded of us wide-eyed, and in the hearing of the purchaser.

The latter grinned a little, and hailed a man across the street.

"Charley!" he yelled. "Come over here!"

The individual addressed offered some demur, but finally picked his way across to us.

"How do you like these?" demanded the pineapple purchaser, showing his fruit.

"Jerusalem!" cried Charley admiringly, "where did you get them? Want to sell 'em?"

"I want some myself, but I'll sell you three of them."

"How much?"

"Fifteen dollars."

"Give 'em to me."

The first purchaser grinned openly at our companion.

The latter followed into the nearest store to get his share of the dust weighed out. His face
wore a very thoughtful expression.

We came shortly to the Plaza, since called Portsmouth Square. At that time it was a wind-swept,
grass-grown, scrubby enough plot of ground. On all sides were permanent buildings. The most
important of these were a low picturesque house of the sun-dried bricks known as adobes, in
which, as it proved, the customs were levied; a frame two-story structure known as the Parker
House, and a similar building labelled "City Hotel." The spaces between these larger edifices
was occupied by a dozen or so of smaller shacks. Next door to the Parker House stood a huge
flapping tent. The words El Dorado were painted on its side.

The square itself was crowded with people moving to and fro. The solid majority of the crowd
consisted of red or blue shirted miners; but a great many nations and frames of minds seemed
to be represented. Chinese merchants, with red coral buttons atop their stiff little skullcaps,
wandered slowly, their hands tucked in capacious sleeves of the richest brocade. We had seen
few of this race; and we looked at them with the greatest interest, examining closely their
broad bland faces, the delicate lilacs and purples and blues of their rich costumes, the swaying
silk braided queues down their backs. Other Chinese, of the lower castes, clad in blue canvas
with broad bowl-shaped hats of straw on their heads, wormed their way through the crowd balancing
baskets at the ends of poles. Rivalling the great Chinese merchants in their leisure, strolled
the representatives of the native race, the Spanish Californians. They were darkly handsome
men, dressed gloriously in short velvet jackets, snowy ruffles, plush trousers flaring at the
bottom, and slit up the side of the leg, soft leather boots, and huge spurs ornamented with
silver. They sauntered to and fro smoking brown-paper cigarettos. Beside these two, the Chinese
and the Californians, but one other class seemed to be moving with any deliberation. These
were men seen generally alone, or at most in pairs. They were quiet, waxy pale, dressed always
neatly in soft black hat, white shirt, long black coat, and varnished boots. In the face of
a general gabble they seemed to remain indifferently silent, self-contained and aloof. To occasional
salutations they responded briefly and with gravity.

"Professional gamblers," said Talbot.

All the rest of the crowd rushed here and there at a great speed. We saw the wildest incongruities
of demeanour and costume beside which the silk-hat-red-shirted combination was nothing. They
struck us open-mouthed and gasping; but seemed to attract not the slightest attention from
anybody else. We encountered a number of men dressed alike in suits of the finest broadcloth,
the coats of which were lined with red silk, and the vests of embroidered white. These men
walked with a sort of arrogant importance. We later found that they were members of that dreaded
organization known as The Hounds, whose ostensible purpose was to perform volunteer police
duty, but whose real effort was toward the increase of their own power. These people all surged
back and forth good-naturedly, and shouted at each other, and disappeared with great importance
up the side streets, or darted out with equal busyness from all points of the compass. Every
few minutes a cry of warning would go up on one side of the square or another. The crowd would
scatter to right and left, and down through the opening would thunder a horseman distributing
clouds of dust and showers of earth.

"Why doesn't somebody kill a few of those crazy fools!" muttered Talbot impatiently, after
a particularly close shave.

"Why, you see, they's mostly drunk," stated a bystander with an air of explaining all.

We tacked across to the doors of the Parker House. There after some search was made we found
the proprietor. He, too, seemed very busy, but he spared time to trudge ahead of us up two
rickety flights of raw wooden stairs to a loft where he indicated four canvas bunks on which
lay as many coarse blue blankets.

Perhaps a hundred similar bunks occupied every available inch in the little loft.

"How long you going to stay?" he asked us.

"Don't know; a few days."

"Well, six dollars apiece, please."

"For how long?"

"For to-night."

"Hold on!" expostulated Talbot. "We can't stand that especially for these accommodations. At
that price we ought to have something better. Haven't you anything in the second story?"

The proprietor's busy air fell from him; and he sat down on the edge of one of the canvas bunks.

"I thought you boys were from the mines," said he. "Your friend, here, fooled me." He pointed
his thumb at Yank. "He looks like an old-timer. But now I look at you, I see you're greenhorns.
Just get here to-day? Have a smoke?"

He produced a handful of cigars, of which he lit one.

"We just arrived," said Talbot, somewhat amused at this change. "How about that second story?"

"I want to tell you boys a few things," said the proprietor, "I get sixty thousand dollars
a year rent for that second story just as she stands. That tent next door belongs to my brother-in-law.
It is just fifteen by twenty-five feet, and he rents it for forty thousand."

"Gamblers?" inquired Talbot.

"You've guessed it. So you see I ain't got any beds to speak of down there. In fact, here's
the whole layout."

"But we can't stand six dollars a night for these things," expostulated Johnny. "Let's try
over at the other place."

"Try ahead, boys," said the proprietor quite good-naturedly. "You'll find her the same over
there; and everywhere else." He arose. "Best leave your plunder here until you find out. Come
down and have a drink?"

We found the City Hotel offered exactly the same conditions as did the Parker House; except
that the proprietor was curt and had no time for us at all. From that point, still dissatisfied,
we extended our investigations beyond the Plaza. We found ourselves ankle deep in sandhills
on which grew coarse grass and a sort of sage. Crazy, ramshackle huts made of all sorts of
material were perched in all sorts of places. Hundreds of tents had been pitched, beneath which
and in front of which an extremely simple housekeeping was going on. Hunt as we might we could
find no place that looked as though it would take lodgers. Most of even the better looking
houses were simply tiny skeletons covered with paper, cloth or paint. By painstaking persistence
we kept at it until we had enquired of every building of any pretensions. Then, somewhat discouraged,
we picked our way back to the shore after our heavier goods.

The proprietor of the Parker House greeted us with unabated good nature.

"I know how you boys feel," said he. "There's lots in your fix. You'd better stick here to-night
and then get organized to camp out, if you're going to be here long. I suppose, though, you're
going to the mines? Well, it'll take you several days to make your plans and get ready. When
you get back from the mines you won't have to think about these things."

"There's plenty of gold?" ventured Johnny.

"Bushels."

"I should think you'd be up there."

"I don't want any better gold mine than the old Parker House," said he comfortably.

We paid him twenty-four dollars.

By now it was late in the afternoon. The wind had dropped, but over the hills to seaward rolled
a soft beautiful bank of fog. The sun was blotted out behind it and a chill fell. The crowds
about the Plaza thinned.

We economized our best at supper, but had to pay some eight dollars for the four of us. The
bill was a la carte and contained such items as grizzly steak, antelope, elk, and wild duck
and goose. Grizzly steak, I remember, cost a dollar and a quarter. By the time we had finished,
it had grown dark. The lamps were alight, and the crowds were beginning to gather. All the
buildings and the big tent next door were a blaze of illumination. The sounds of music and
singing came from every side. A holiday spirit was in the air.

Johnny and I were crazy to be up and doing, but Talbot sternly repressed us, and Yank agreed
with his decision by an unusually emphatic nod.

"It is all a lot of fun, I'll admit," said he; "but this is business. And we've got to face
it. Sit down here on the edge of this veranda, and let's talk things over. How much money have
you got, Yank?"

"Two hundred and twenty dollars," replied Yank promptly.

"You're partners with me, Frank, so I know our assets," said Talbot with tact. "Johnny?"

"Hanged if I know," replied that youth. "I've got quite a lot. I keep it in my pack."

"Well, go find out," advised Talbot.

Johnny was gone for some time. We smoked and listened to the rather blatantly mingled strains
of music, and watched the figures of men hurrying by in the spangled darkness.

Johnny returned very much excited.

"I've been robbed!" he cried.

"Robbed? Is your money all gone?"

"No, there's a little left, but----"

Talbot laughed quietly.

"Sit down, Johnny, and cool off," he advised. "If anybody had robbed you, they'd have taken
the whole kit and kaboodle. Did you come out ahead on those monte games?"

Johnny blushed, and laughed a little.

"I see what you're at, but you're away off there. I just played for small stakes."

"And lost a lot of them. I sort of look-out your game. But that's all right. How much did the
'robbers' leave you?"

"Twelve dollars, besides what I have in my clothes--twenty-one dollars in all," said Johnny.

"Well, that's pretty good. You beat Frank and me to death. There's our total assets," said
Talbot, and laid a ten-dollar gold piece and a dime on his knee.

"We'll call that dime a curiosity," said he, "for I notice a quarter is the smallest coin they
use out here. Now you see that we've got to talk business. Frank and I haven't got enough to
live on for one more day."

"There's enough among us----" began Yank.

"You mean you already have your share of the partnership finances," corrected Talbot, quickly.
"If we're going to be partners--and that's desired and understood, I suppose?" We all nodded
emphatic agreement. "We must all put in the same amount. I move that said amount be two hundred
and twenty dollars apiece. Yank, you can loaf to-morrow; you've got your share all made up.
You can put in the day finding out all about getting to the mines, and how much it costs, and
what we will need."

"All right; I'll do it," said Yank.

"As for the rest of us," cried Talbot, "we've got to rustle up two hundred and twenty dollars
each before to-morrow evening!"

"How?" I asked blankly

"How should I know? Out there" he waved his hand abroad at the flickering lights. "There is
the Golden City, challenging every man as he enters her gates. She offers opportunity and fortune.
All a man has to do is go and take them! Accept the challenge!"

"The only way I could take them would be to lift them off some other fellow at the point of
a gun," said Johnny gloomily.

CHAPTER XI

I MAKE TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS

We talked the situation over thoroughly, and then turned in, having lost our chance to see
the sights. Beneath us and in the tent next door went on a tremendous row of talking, laughing,
and singing that for a little while prevented me from falling asleep. But the last month had
done wonders for me in that way; and shortly I dropped off.

Hours later I awakened, shivering with cold to find the moonlight pouring into the room, and
the bunks all occupied. My blanket had disappeared, which accounted for my dreams of icebergs.
Looking carefully over the sleeping forms I discerned several with two blankets, and an equal
number with none! At first I felt inclined to raise a row; then thought better of it, by careful
manipulation I abstracted two good blankets from the most unprotected of of my neighbours,
wrapped them tightly about me, and so slept soundly.

We went downstairs and out into the sweetest of mornings. The sun was bright, the sky clear
and blue, the wind had not yet risen, balmy warmth showered down through every particle of
the air. I had felt some May days like this back on our old farm. Somehow they were associated
in my mind with Sunday morning and the drawling, lazy clucking of hens. Only here there were
no hens, and if it was Sunday morning--which it might have been--nobody knew it.

The majority of the citizens had not yet appeared, but a handful of the poorer Chinese, and
a sprinkling of others, crossed the Plaza. The doors of the gambling places were all wide open
to the air. Across the square a number of small boys were throwing dust into the air. Johnny,
with his usual sympathy for children, naturally gravitated in their direction. He returned
after a few moments, his eyes wide.

"Do you know what they are doing?" he demanded.

We said politely that we did not.

"They are panning for gold."

"Well, what of it?" I asked, after a moment's pause; since Johnny seemed to expect some astonishment.
"Boys are imitative little monkeys."

"Yes, but they're getting it," insisted Johnny.

"What!" cried Talbot. "You're crazy. Panning gold--here in the streets. It's absurd!"

"It's not absurd; come and see."

We crossed the Plaza. Two small Americans and a Mexican youth were scooping the surface earth
into the palms of their hands and blowing it out again in a slantwise stream. When it was all
gone, they examined eagerly their hands. Four others working in partnership had spread a small
sheet. They threw their handfuls of earth into the air, all the while fanning vigorously with
their hats. The breeze thus engendered puffed away the light dust, leaving only the heavier
pieces to fall on the canvas. Among these the urchins searched eagerly and carefully, their
heads close together. Every moment or so one of them would wet a forefinger to pick up carefully
a speck of something which he would then transfer to an old buckskin sack.

As we approached, they looked up and nodded to Johnny in a friendly fashion. They were eager,
alert, precocious gamins, of the street type and how they had come to California I could not
tell you. Probably as cabin boys of some of the hundreds of vessels in the harbour.

"What are you getting, boys?" asked Talbot after a moment.

"Gold, of course," answered one of them.

"Let's see it."

The boy with the buckskin sack held it open for our inspection, but did not relax his grip
on it. The bottom of the bag was thickly gilded with light glittering yellow particles.

"It looks like gold," said I, incredulously.

"It is gold," replied the boy with some impatience. "Anyway, it buys things."

We looked at each other.

"Gold diggings right in the streets of San Francisco," murmured Yank.

"I should think you'd find it easier later in the day when the wind came up?" suggested Talbot.

"Of course; and let some other kids jump our claim while we were waiting," grunted one of the
busy miners.

"How much do you get out of it?"

"Good days we make as high as three or four dollars."

"I'm afraid the diggings are hardly rich enough to tempt us," observed Talbot; "but isn't that
the most extraordinary performance! I'd no notion----"

We returned slowly to the hotel, marvelling. Yesterday we had been laughing at the gullibility
of one of our fellow-travellers who had believed the tale of a wily ship's agent to the effect
that it was possible to live aboard the ship and do the mining within reach ashore at odd hours
of daylight! Now that tale did not sound so wild; although of course we realized that the gold
must occur in very small quantities. Otherwise somebody beside small boys would be at it. As
a matter of fact, though we did not find it out until very much later, the soil of San Francisco
is not auriferous at all. The boys were engaged in working the morning's sweepings from the
bars and gambling houses which the lavish and reckless handling of gold had liberally impregnated.
In some of the mining towns nearer the source of supply I have known of from one hundred to
three hundred dollars a month being thus "blown" from the sweepings of a bar.

We ate a frugal breakfast and separated on the agreed business of the day. Yank started for
the water front to make inquiries as to ways of getting to the mines; Talbot set off at a businesslike
pace for the hotel as though he knew fully what he was about; Johnny wandered rather aimlessly
to the east; and I as aimlessly to the west.

It took me just one hour to discover that I could get all of any kind of work that any dozen
men could do, and at wages so high that at first I had to ask over and over again to make sure
I had heard aright. Only none of them would bring me in two hundred and twenty dollars by evening.
The further I looked into that proposition, the more absurd, of course, I saw it to be. I could
earn from twenty to fifty dollars by plain day-labour at some jobs; or I could get fabulous
salaries by the month or year; but that was different. After determining this to my satisfaction
I came to the sensible conclusion that I would make what I could.

The first thing that caught my eye after I had come to this decision was a wagon drawn by four
mules coming down the street at a sucking walk. The sight did not impress me particularly;
but every storekeeper came out from his shop and every passerby stopped to look with respect
as the outfit wallowed along. It was driven by a very large, grave, blond man with a twinkle
in his eye.

"That's John A. McGlynn," said a man next my elbow.

"Who's he?" I asked.

The man looked at me in astonishment.

"Don't know who John McGlynn is?" he demanded. "When did you get here?"

"Last night."

"Oh! Well, John has the only American wagon in town. Brought it out from New York in pieces,
and put it together himself. Broke four wild California mules to drag her. He's a wonder!"

I could not, then, see quite how this exploit made him such a wonder; but on a sudden inspiration
I splashed out through the mud and climbed into the wagon.

McGlynn looked back at me.

"Freightin'," said he, "is twenty dollars a ton; and at that rate it'll cost you about thirty
dollars, you dirty hippopotamus. These ain't no safe-movers, these mules!"

Unmoved, I clambered up beside him.

"I want a job," said I, "for to-day only."

"Do ye now?"

"Can you give me one?"

"I can, mebbe. And do you understand the inner aspirations of mules, maybe?"

"I was brought up on a farm."

"And the principles of elementary navigation by dead reckoning?"

I looked at him blankly.

"I mean mudholes," he explained. "Can you keep out of them?"

"I can try."

He pulled up the team, handed me the reins, and clambered over the wheel.

"You're hired. At six o'clock I'll find you and pay you off. You get twenty-five dollars."

"What am I to do?"

"You go to the shore and you rustle about whenever you see anything that looks like freight;
and you look at it, and when you see anything marked with a diamond and an H inside of it,
you pile it on and take it up to Howard Mellin & Company. And if you can't lift it, then leave
it for another trip, and bullyrag those skinflints at H. M. & Co.'s to send a man down to help
you. And if you don't know where they live, find out; and if you bog them mules down I'll skin
you alive, big as you are. And anyway, you're a fool to be working in this place for twenty-five
dollars a day, which is one reason I'm so glad to find you just now."

"What's that, John?" inquired a cool, amused voice. McGlynn and I looked around. A tall, perfectly
dressed figure stood on the sidewalk surveying us quizzically. This was a smooth-shaven man
of perhaps thirty-five years of age, grave faced, clean cut, with an air of rather ponderous
slow dignity that nevertheless became his style very well. He was dressed in tall white hat,
a white winged collar, a black stock, a long tailed blue coat with gilt buttons, an embroidered
white waistcoat, dapper buff trousers, and varnished boots. He carried a polished cane and
wore several heavy pieces of gold jewellery--a watch fob, a scarf-pin, and the like. His movements
were leisurely, his voice low. It seemed to me, then, that somehow the perfection of his appointments
and the calm deliberation of his movement made him more incongruous and remarkable than did
the most bizarre whims of the miners.

"Is it yourself, Judge Girvin?" replied McGlynn, "I'm just telling this young man that he can't
have the job of driving my little California canaries for but one day because I've hired a
fine lawyer from the East at two hundred and seventy-five a month to drive my mules for me."

"You have done well," Judge Girvin in his grave, courteous tones. "For the whole business of
a lawyer is to know how to manage mules and asses so as to make them pay!"

I drove to the beach, and speedily charged my wagon with as large a load as prudence advised
me. The firm of Howard Mellin & Company proved to have quarters in a frame shack on what is
now Montgomery Street. It was only a short haul, but a muddy one. Nearly opposite their store
a new wharf was pushing its way out into the bay. I could see why this and other firms clung
so tenaciously to their locations on rivers of bottomless mud in preference to moving up into
the drier part of town.

I enjoyed my day hugely. My eminent position on the driver's seat--eminent both actually and
figuratively--gave me a fine opportunity to see the sights and to enjoy the homage men seemed
inclined to accord the only wagon in town. The feel of the warm air was most grateful. Such
difficulties as offered served merely to add zest to the job. At noon I ate some pilot bread
and a can of sardines bought from my employers. About two o'clock the wind came up from the
sea, and the air filled with the hurrying clouds of dust.

In my journeys back and forth I had been particularly struck by the bold, rocky hill that shut
off the view toward the north. Atop this hill had been rigged a two-armed semaphore, which,
one of the clerks told me, was used to signal the sight of ships coming in the Golden Gate.
The arms were variously arranged according to the rig or kind of vessel. Every man, every urchin,
every Chinaman, even, knew the meaning of these various signals. A year later, I was attending
a theatrical performance in the Jenny Lind Theatre on the Plaza. In the course of the play
an actor rushed on frantically holding his arms outstretched in a particularly wooden fashion,
and uttering the lines, "What means this, my lord!"

"A side-wheel steamer!" piped up a boy's voice from the gallery.

Well, about three o'clock of this afternoon, as I was about delivering my fifth load of goods,
I happened to look up just as the semaphore arms hovered on the rise. It seemed that every
man on the street must have been looking in the same direction, for instantly a great shout
went up.

"A side-wheel steamer! The Oregon!"

At once the streets were alive with men hurrying from all directions toward the black rocks
at the foot of Telegraph Hill, where, it seems, the steamer's boats were expected to land.
Flags were run up on all sides, firearms were let off, a warship in the harbour broke out her
bunting and fired a salute. The decks of the steamer, as she swept into view, were black with
men; her yards were gay with colour. Uptown some devoted soul was ringing a bell; and turning
it away over and over, to judge by the sounds. I pulled up my mules and watched the vessel
swing down through the ranks of the shipping and come to anchor. We had beaten out our comrades
by a day!

At five o'clock a small boy boarded me.

"You're to drive the mules up to McGlynn's and unhitch them and leave them," said he. "I'm
to show you the way."

"Where's McGlynn?" I asked.

"He's getting his mail."

We drove to a corral and three well-pitched tents down in the southern edge of town. Here a
sluggish stream lost its way in a swamp of green hummocky grass. I turned out the mules in
the corral and hung up the harness.

"McGlynn says you're to go to the post-office and he'll pay you there," my guide instructed me.

The post-office proved to be a low adobe one-story building, with the narrow veranda typical
of its kind. A line of men extended from its door and down the street as far as the eye could
reach. Some of them had brought stools or boxes, and were comfortably reading scraps of paper.

I walked down the line. A dozen from the front I saw Johnny standing. This surprised me, for
I knew he could not expect mail by this steamer. Before I had reached him he had finished talking
to a stranger, and had yielded his place.

"Hullo!" he greeted me. "How you getting on?"

"So-so!" I replied. "I'm looking for a man who owes me twenty-five dollars."

"Well, he's here," said Johnny confidently. "Everybody in town is here."

We found McGlynn in line about a block down the street. When he saw me coming he pulled a fat
buckskin bag from his breeches pocket, opened its mouth, and shook a quantity of its contents,
by guess, into the palm of his hand.

"There you are," said he; "that's near enough. I'm a pretty good guesser. I hope you took care
of the mules all right; you ought to, you're from a farm."

"I fixed 'em."

"And the mud? How many times did you get stuck?"

"Not at all."

He looked at me with surprise.

"Would you think of that, now!" said he. "You must have loaded her light."

"I did."

"Did you get all the goods over?"

"Yes."

"Well, I'll acknowledge you're a judgematical young man; and if you want a job with me I'll
let that lawyer go I spoke to the judge about. He handed it to me then, didn't he?" He laughed
heartily. "No? Well, you're right. A man's a fool to work for any one but himself. Where's
your bag? Haven't any? How do you carry your dust? Haven't any? I forgot; you're a tenderfoot,
of course." He opened his buckskin sack with his teeth, and poured back the gold from the palm
of his hand. Then he searched for a moment in all his pockets, and produced a most peculiar
chunk of gold metal. It was nearly as thick as it was wide, shaped roughly into an octagon,
and stamped with initials. This he handed to me.

"It's about a fifty-dollar slug," said he, "you can get it weighed. Give me the change next
time you see me."

"But I may leave for the mines to-morrow," I objected.

"Then leave the change with Jim Recket of the El Dorado."

"How do you know I'll leave it?" I asked curiously.

"I don't," replied McGlynn bluntly. "But if you need twenty-five dollars worse than you do
a decent conscience, then John A. McGlynn isn't the man to deny you!"

Johnny and I left for the hotel.

"I didn't know you expected any mail," said I.

"I don't."

"But thought I saw you in line----"

"Oh, yes. When I saw the mail sacks, it struck me that there might be quite a crowd; so I came
up as quickly as I could and got in line. There were a number before me, but I got a place
pretty well up in front. Sold the place for five dollars, and only had to stand there about
an hour at that."

"Good head!" I admired. "I'd never have thought of it. How have you gotten on?"

"Pretty rotten," confessed Johnny. "I tried all morning to find a decent opportunity to do
something or deal in something, and then I got mad and plunged in for odd jobs. I've been a
regular errand boy. I made two dollars carrying a man's bag up from the ship."

"How much all told?"

"Fifteen. I suppose you've got your pile."

"That twenty-five you saw me get is the size of it."

Johnny brightened; we moved up closer in a new intimacy and sense of comradeship over delinquency.
It relieved both to feel that the other, too, had failed. To enter the Plaza we had to pass
one of the larger of the gambling places.

"I'm going in here," said Johnny, suddenly.

He swung through the open doors, and I followed him.

The place was comparatively deserted, owing probably to the distribution of mail. We had full
space to look about us; and I was never more astonished in my life. The outside of the building
was rough and unfinished as a barn, having nothing but size to attract or recommend. The interior
was the height of lavish luxury. A polished mahogany bar ran down one side, backed by huge
gilt framed mirrors before which were pyramided fine glasses and bottles of liquor. The rest
of the wall space was thickly hung with more plate mirrors, dozens of well-executed oil paintings,
and strips of tapestry. At one end was a small raised stage on which lolled half-dozen darkies
with banjos and tambourines. The floor was covered with a thick velvet carpet. Easy chairs,
some of them leather upholstered, stood about in every available corner. Heavy chandeliers
of glass, with hundreds of dangling crystals and prisms, hung from the ceiling. The gambling
tables, a half dozen in number, were arranged in the open floor space in the centre. Altogether
it was a most astounding contrast in its sheer luxury and gorgeous furnishing to the crudity
of the town. I became acutely conscious of my muddy boots, my old clothes, my unkempt hair,
my red shirt and the armament strapped about my waist.

A relaxed, subdued air of idleness pervaded the place. The gamblers lounged back of their tables,
sleepy-eyed and listless. On tall stools their lookouts yawned behind papers. One of these
was a woman, young, pretty, most attractive in the soft, flaring, flouncy costume of that period.
A small group of men stood at the bar. One of the barkeepers was mixing drinks, pouring the
liquid, at arm's length from one tumbler to another in a long parabolic curve, and without
spilling a drop. Only one table was doing business, and that with only three players. Johnny
pushed rapidly toward this table, and I, a little diffidently, followed.

The game was roulette. Johnny and the dealer evidently recognized each other, for a flash of
the eye passed between them, but they gave no other sign. Johnny studied the board a moment
then laid twenty-two dollars in coin on one of the numbers. The other players laid out small
bags of gold dust. The wheel spun, and the ball rolled. Two of the men lost; their dust was
emptied into a drawer beneath the table and the bags tossed back to them. The third had won;
the dealer deftly estimated the weight of his bet, lifting it in the flat of his left hand;
then spun several gold pieces toward the winner. He seemed quite satisfied. The gambler stacked
a roll of twenty-dollar pieces, added one to them, and thrust them at Johnny. I had not realized
that the astounding luck of winning off a single number had befallen him.

"Ten to one--two hundred and twenty dollars!" he muttered to me.

The other three players were laying their bets for the next turn of the wheel. Johnny swept
the gold pieces into his pocket, and laid back the original stake against even. He lost. Thereupon
he promptly arose and left the building.

CHAPTER XII

TALBOT DESERTS

I followed him to the hotel somewhat gloomily; for I was now the only member of our party who
had not made good the agreed amount of the partnership. It is significant that never for a
moment did either Johnny or myself doubt that Talbot would have the required sum. Johnny, his
spirits quite recovered, whistled like a lark.

We arrived just in time for the first supper call, and found Talbot and Yank awaiting us. Yank
was as cool and taciturn, and nodded to us as indifferently, as ever. Talbot, however, was
full of excitement. His biscuit-brown complexion had darkened and flushed until he was almost
Spanish-black, and the little devils in his eyes led a merry dance between the surface and
unguessed depths. He was also exceedingly voluble; and, as usual when in that mood, aggravatingly
indirect. He joked and teased and carried on like a small boy; and insisted on ordering an
elaborate dinner and a bottle of champagne, in the face of even Johnny's scandalized expostulations.
When Johnny protested against expenditure, it was time to look out!

"This is on me! This is my party! Dry up, Johnny!" cried Talbot. "Fill your glasses. Drink
to the new enterprise; the Undertakers' Mining Company, Unlimited."

"Undertakers?" I echoed.

"Well, you all look it. Call it the Gophers, then. Capital stock just eight hundred and eighty
dollars, fully subscribed. I suppose it is fully subscribed, gentlemen?" He scrutinized us
closely. "Ah, Frank! I see we'll have to take your promissory note. But the artistic certificates
are not yet home from the engravers. Take your time. Maybe a relative will die."

"Talbot," said I disgustedly, "if I hadn't happened to smell your breath before supper I'd
think you drunk."

"I am drunk, old deacon," rejoined Talbot, "but with the Wine of Enchantment--do you know your
Persian? No? Well, then, this:

    "Drink to me only with thine eyes,
    And I'll not ask for wine!"

"A woman!" grumbled the literal Yank.

"The best, the most capricious, the most beautiful woman in the world," cried Talbot, "whose
smile intoxicates, whose frown drives to despair."

"What are you drivelling about?" I demanded.

"The goddess fortune--what else? But come," and Talbot rose with a sudden and startling transition
to the calm and businesslike. "We can smoke outside; and we must hear each other's reports."

He paid for the dinner, steadfastly refusing to let us bear our share. I noticed that he had
acquired one of the usual buckskin sacks, and shook the yellow dust from the mouth of it to
the pan of the gold scales with quite an accustomed air.

We lit our pipes and sat down at one end of the veranda, where we would not be interrupted.

"Fire ahead, Yank," advised Talbot.

"There's two ways of going to the mines," said Yank: "One is to go overland by horses to Sutter's
Fort or the new town of Sacramento, and then up from there into the foothills of the big mountains
way yonder. The other is to take a boat and go up river to Sacramento and then pack across
with horses."

"How much is the river fare?" asked Talbot.

"You have to get a sailboat. It costs about forty dollars apiece."

"How long would it take?"

"Four or five days."

"And how long from here to Sutter's Fort by horse?"

"About the same."

"Depends then on whether horses are cheaper here or there."

"They are cheaper there; or we can get our stuff freighted in by Greasers and hoof it ourselves."

"Then I should think we ought to have a boat."

"I got one," said Yank.

"Good for you!" cried Talbot. "You're a man after my own heart! Well, Johnny?"

Johnny told his tale, a little proudly and produced his required two hundred and twenty dollars.

"You had luck," said Talbot non-committally, "and you ran a strong risk of coming back here
without a cent, didn't you? I want to ask you one question, Johnny. If you had lost, would
you have been willing to have taken the consequences?"

"What do you mean?" asked Johnny blankly.

"Would you have been willing to have dropped out of this partnership?"

Johnny stared.

"I mean," said Talbot kindly, "that you had no right to try to get this money by merely a gambler's
chance unless you were willing to accept the logical result if you failed. It isn't fair to
the rest of us."

"I see what you mean," said Johnny slowly. "No; I hadn't thought of it that way."

"Well, as I said, you had luck," repeated Talbot cheerfully, "so we needn't think of it further."
It was characteristic that Johnny took this veiled rebuke from Talbot Ward in a meek and chastened
spirit; from any one else his high temper could never stand even a breath of criticism. "How
about you, Frank?" Talbot asked me.

I detailed my experiences in a very few words and exhibited my gold slug.

"That's the best I can do," I ended, "and half of that does not belong to me. I can, however,
in a few days scrape up the full amount; there is plenty to do here. And barring bull luck,
like Johnny's, I don't see much show of beating that, unless a man settled down to stay here."

Talbot stared at me, ruminatively, until I began to get restive. Then he withdrew his eyes.
He made no comment.

"I suppose you have your money," suggested Yank to him, after a pause.

"Oh--yes," said Talbot as though awaking from profound reverie.

"Well, tell us about it. How did you get it? How long did it take you?"

"About half an hour. I figured that everybody in a place like this would be wanting news. So
I sorted out that bundle of old newspapers you fellows were always laughing at, and I went
out and sold them. Lucky I got busy with them early; for I don't doubt the arrival of the Oregon
broke the market."

"How much did you get for them?" asked Johnny.

"A dollar apiece for most, and fifty cents for the rest. I came out two hundred and seventy
dollars ahead all told. That, with Frank's and my ten dollars, gave me sixty dollars above
the necessary amount."

Johnny arose and kicked himself solemnly.

"For not guessing what newspapers were good for," he explained. "Go on! What next? What did
you do with the rest of the day?"

Talbot leaned forward, and all the animation of the dinner table returned to his manner and
to his face.

"Boys," said he earnestly, "this is the most wonderful town that has ever been! There has been
nothing like it in the past; and there will never be anything like it again. After I had sold
out my papers I went wandering across the Plaza with my hands in my pockets. Next the El Dorado
there is a hole in the ground. It isn't much of a hole, and the edges are all caving in because
it is sandy. While I was looking at it two men came along. One was the owner of the hole, and
the other said he was a lawyer. The owner offered to rent the hole to the lawyer for two hundred
and fifty dollars a month; and the lawyer was inclined to take him up. After they had gone
on I paced off the hole, just for fun. It was twelve feet square by about six feet deep! Then
I walked on down toward the water front, and talked with all the storekeepers. They do a queer
business. All these goods we see around came out here on consignment. The local storekeepers
have a greater or lesser share and sell mainly on commission. Since they haven't any adequate
storehouses, and can't get any put up again, they sell the stuff mainly at auction and get
rid of it as quickly as possible. That's why some things are so cheap they can make pavements
of them when a ship happens to come in loaded with one article. I talked with some of them
and told them they ought to warehouse a lot of this stuff so as to keep it over until the market
steadied. They agreed with that; but pointed out that they were putting up warehouses as fast
as they could--which wasn't very fast--and in the meantime the rains and dust were destroying
their goods. It was cheaper to sell at auction."

"And a heap more exciting," put in Johnny. "I went to one of them."

"Well, I wandered down to the shore, and looked out over the bay. It was full of shipping,
riding high at anchor. I had an idea. I hired a boat for five dollars, and rowed out to some
of the ships. Believe me or not, most of them were empty; not even a watchman aboard! I found
some of the captains, however, and talked with each of them. They all told the same story."

"Crews skipped to the mines, I suppose?" said Yank.

"Exactly. And they couldn't get any more. So I offered to hire a few of them."

"The captains?" I inquired.

"No; the ships."

"The what?" we yelled in chorus.

"The ships."

"But if the captains can't get crews----"

"Oh, I don't want to sail them," went on Talbot impatiently. "It was hard work getting them
to agree; they all cherished notions they could get crews and go sailing some more--good old
salts! But I hired four, at last. Had to take them for only a month, however; and had to pay
them in advance five hundred apiece."

"I beg pardon," said Johnny softly, "for interrupting your pleasing tale; but the last item
interested me. I do not know whether I quite heard it right."

"Oh, shut up, Johnny," said Yank; "let the man tell his story. Of course he didn't have the
money in his pocket. How did you get it, Tal?"

Ward shot him a grateful glance.

"I told them I'd pay them at four o'clock which gave me plenty of time."

"Two thousand dollars--oh, of course!" murmured Johnny.

"So then," continued Talbot, "I hustled ashore; and went to see some of my merchant friends.
In two hours I had contracts with twelve of them that totalled six thousand dollars."

"Why didn't some of them go out and hire ships on their own account?" asked Yank shrewdly.

"Because I didn't mention the word 'ship' until I had their business," said Talbot. "I just
guaranteed them storage, waterproof, practically fireproof, dustproof, and within twenty-four
hours. I guess most of them thought I was crazy. But as it didn't cost them anything, they
were willing to take a chance."

"Then you didn't raise your ten thousand dollars from them in advance payments!" I marvelled.

"Certainly not. That would have scared off the whole lot of them. But I got their agreements;
I told you it took me two hours. Then I walked up the street figuring where I'd get the money.
Of course I saw I'd have to divide the profits. I didn't know anybody; but after a while I
decided that the best chance was to get some advice from honest and disinterested man. So I
asked the first man I met who ran the biggest gambling place in town. He told me Jim Recket."

"Jim Recket?" I echoed. "He's the man I was to leave change for my gold slug with."

"Recket keeps the El Dorado, next door in the tent. He impressed me as a very quiet, direct,
square sort of a fellow. The best type of professional gambler, in matters of this sort, generally
is.

"'I am looking for a man,' said I, 'who has a little idle money, some time, no gold-mining
fever, plenty of nerve, and a broad mind. Can you tell me who he is?'

"He thought a minute and then answered direct, as I knew he would.

"'Sam Brannan,' he said.

"'Tell me about him.'

"'To take up your points,' said Recket, checking off his fingers, 'he came out with a shipload
of Mormons as their head, and he collected tithes from them for over a year; that's your idle
money. He has all the time the Lord stuck into one day at a clip; that's your "some time."
He has been here in the city since '48 which would seem to show he doesn't care much for mining.
He collected the tithes from those Mormons, and sent word to Brigham Young that if he wanted
the money to come and get it. That's for your nerve. As for being broad minded--well, when
a delegation of the Mormons, all ready for a scrap, came to him solemnly to say that they were
going to refuse to pay him the tithes any more, even if he was the California head of the church,
he laughed them off the place for having been so green as to pay them as long as they had.'

"I found Sam Brannan, finally, at the bar in Dennison's Exchange."

"What was he like?" asked Johnny eagerly. "I'll bet I heard his name fifty times to-day."

"He is a thickset, jolly looking, curly headed fellow, with a thick neck, a bulldog jaw, and
a big voice," replied Talbot. "Of course he tried to bully me, but when that didn't work, he
came down to business. We entered into an agreement.

"Brannan was to furnish the money, and take half the profits, provided he liked the idea. When
we had settled it all, I told him my scheme. He thought it over a while and came in. Then we
rowed off and paid the captains of the ships. It was necessary now to get them warped in at
high tide, of course, but Sam Brannan said he'd see to that--he has some sort of a pull with
the natives, enough to get a day's labour, anyway."

"Warp them in?" I echoed.

"Certainly. You couldn't expect the merchants to lighter their stuff off in boats always. We'll
beach these ships at high tide, and then run some sort of light causeway out to them. There's
no surf, and the bottom is soft. It'll cost us something, of course; but Sam and I figure we
ought to divide three thousand clear."

"I'd like to ask a question or so," said I. "What's to prevent the merchants doing this same
hiring of ships for themselves?"

"Nothing," said Talbot, "after the first month."

"And what prevented Brannan, after he had heard your scheme, from going out on his own hook,
and pocketing all the proceeds?"

"You don't understand, Frank," said Talbot impatiently. "Men of our stamp don't do those things."

"Oh!" said I.

"This," said Johnny, "made it about two o'clock, as I figure your story. Did you then take
a needed rest?"

"Quarter of two," corrected Talbot, "I was going back to the hotel, when I passed that brick
building--you know, on Montgomery Street. I remembered then that lawyer and his two hundred
and fifty dollars for a hole in the ground. It seemed to me there was a terrible waste somewhere.
Here was a big brick building filled up with nothing but goods. It might much better be filled
with people. There is plenty of room for goods in those ships; but you can't very well put
people on the ships. So I just dropped in to see them about it. I offered to hire the entire
upper part of the building; and pointed out that the lower part was all they could possibly
use as a store. They said they needed the upper part as storehouse. I offered to store the
goods in an accessible safe place. Of course they wanted to see the place; but I wouldn't let
on, naturally, but left it subject to their approval after the lease was signed. The joke of
it is they were way overstocked anyway. Finally I made my grand offer.

"'Look here,' said I, 'you rent me that upper story for a decent length of time--say a year--and
I'll buy out the surplus stock you've got up there at a decent valuation.' They jumped at that;
of course they pretended not to, but just the same they jumped. I'll either sell the stuff
by auction, even if at a slight loss, or else I'll stick it aboard a ship. Depends a good deal
on what is there, of course. It's mostly bale and box goods of some sort or another. I've got
an inventory in my pocket. Haven't looked at it yet. Then I'll partition off that wareroom
and rent it out for offices and so forth. There are a lot of lawyers and things in this town
just honing for something dignified and stable. I only pay three thousand a month for it."

Johnny groaned deeply.

"Well," persisted Talbot, "I figure on getting at least eight thousand a month out of it. That'll
take care of a little loss on the goods, if necessary. I'm not sure a loss is necessary."

"And how much, about, are the goods?" I inquired softly.

"Oh, I don't know. Somewhere between ten and twenty thousand, I suppose."

"Paid for how, and when?"

"One third cash, and the rest in notes. The interest out here is rather high," said Talbot
regretfully.

"Where do you expect to get the money?" I insisted.

"Oh, money! money!" cried Talbot, throwing out his arms with a gesture of impatience. "The
place is full of money. It's pouring in from the mines, from the world outside. Money's no
trouble!"

He fell into an intent reverie, biting at his short moustache. I arose softly to my feet.

"Johnny," said I, in a strangled little voice, "I've got to give back McGlynn's change. Want
to go with me?"

We tiptoed around the corner of the building, and fell into each other's arms with shrieks of joy.

"Oh!" cried Johnny at last, wiping the tears from his eyes. "Money's no trouble!"

After we had to some extent relieved our feelings we changed my gold slug into dust--I purchased
a buckskin bag--and went to find McGlynn. Our way to his quarters led past the post-office,
where a long queue of men still waited patiently and quietly in line. We stood for a few moments
watching the demeanour of those who had received their mail, or who had been told there was
nothing for them. Some of the latter were pathetic, and looked fairly dazed with grief and
disappointment.

The letters were passed through a small window let in the adobe of the wall; and the men filed
on to the veranda at one end and off it at the other. The man distributing mail was a small,
pompous, fat Englishman. I recognized McGlynn coming slowly down with the line, and paid him
half the dust in my bag.

As McGlynn reached the window, the glass in it slammed shut, and the clerk thrust a card against
it.

"Mails close at 9 P.M."

McGlynn tapped at the glass, received no attention, and commenced to beat a tattoo. The window
was snatched open, and the fat clerk, very red, thrust his face in the opening.

"What do you want?" he demanded truculently.

"Any letters for John A. McGlynn?"

"This office opens at 8:30 A.M." said the clerk, slamming shut the window.

Without an instant's hesitation, and before the man had a chance to retire, McGlynn's huge
fist crashed through the glass and into his face.

The crowd had waited patiently; but now, with a brutal snarl, it surged forward. McGlynn, a
pleasant smile on his face, swung slowly about.

"Keep your line, boys! Keep your line!" he boomed. "There's no trouble! It's only a little
Englishman who don't know our ways yet."

Inside the building the postal force, white and scared yet over the menacing growl of the beast
they had so nearly roused, hastened to resume their tasks. I heard later that the last man
in line reached the window only at three o'clock in the morning. Also that next day McGlynn
was summoned by Geary, then postmaster, to account for his share in the row; and that in the
end Geary apologized and was graciously forgiven by McGlynn! I can well believe it.

We found Yank and Talbot still at the edge of the hotel veranda.

"Look here, Tal!" said Johnny at once. "How are you going to finish all this business you've
scared up, and get off to the mines within a reasonable time? We ought to start pretty soon."

"Mines?" echoed Talbot, "I'm not going to the mines! I wouldn't leave all this for a million
mines. No: Yank and I have been talking it over. You boys will have to attend to the mining
end of this business. I'll pay Frank's share and take a quarter of the profits, and Frank can
pay me in addition half his profits. In return for the work I don't do, I'll put aside two
hundred and twenty dollars and use it in my business here, and all of us will share in the
profits I make from that amount. How does that strike you?"

"I don't like to lose you out of this," said Johnny disappointedly.

"Nor I," said I.

"And I hate to lose the adventure, boys," agreed Talbot earnestly. "But, honestly, I can't
leave this place now even if I want to; and I certainly don't want to."

I turned in that night with the feeling that I had passed a very interesting day.

CHAPTER XIII

UP-RIVER

Two days later Yank, Johnny, and I embarked aboard a small bluff-bowed sailboat, waved our
farewells to Talbot standing on the shore, and laid our course to cross the blue bay behind
an island called Alcatraz. Our boatman was a short, swarthy man, with curly hair and gold rings
in his ears. He handled his boat well, but spoke not at all. After a dozen attempts to get
something more than monosyllables out of him, we gave it up, and settled ourselves to the solid
enjoyment of a new adventure.

The breeze was strong, and drove even our rather clumsy craft at considerable speed. The blue
waters of the bay flashed in the sun and riffled under the squalls. Spray dashed away from
our bows. A chill raced in from the open Pacific, diluting the sunlight.

We stared ahead of us, all eyes. The bay was a veritable inland sea; and the shores ahead of
us lay flat and wide, with blue hazy hills in the distance, and a great mountain hovering in
midair to our right. Black cormorants going upwind flapped heavily by us just above the water,
their necks stretched out. Gulls wheeled and screamed above us, or floated high and light like
corks over the racing waves. Rafts of ducks lay bobbing, their necks furled, their head close
to their bodies. A salt tang stirred our blood; and on the great mountain just north of the
harbour entrance the shadows of cañons were beginning most beautifully to define themselves.

Altogether it was a pleasant sail. We perched to windward, and smoked our pipes, and worked
ourselves to a high pitch of enthusiasm over what we were going to see and do. The sailor too
smoked his pipe, leaning against the long, heavy tiller.

The distant flat shores drew nearer. We turned a corner and could make out the mouth of a river,
and across it a white line that, as we came up on it, proved to be the current breaking against
the wind over a very solid bar. For the first time our sailor gave signs of life. He stood
on his feet, squinted ahead, ordered us amidships, dropped the peak of the mainsail, took the
sheet in his hand. We flew down against the breakers. In a moment we were in them. Two sickening
bumps shook our very vertebræ. The mast swayed drunkenly from side to side as the boat rolled
on her keel, the sail flopped, a following wave slopped heavily over the stern, and the water
swashed forward across our feet. Then we recovered a trifle, staggered forward, bumped twice
more, and slid into the smoother deep water. The sailor grunted, and passed us a dipper. We
bailed her out while he raised again the peak of his sail.

Shortly after this experience we glided up the reaches of a wide beautiful river. It had no
banks, but was bordered by the tall reeds called tules. As far as the eye could reach, and
that was very far when we climbed part way up the mast to look, these tules extended. League
after league they ran away like illimitable plains, green and brown and beautiful, until somewhere
over the curve of the earth straight ahead they must have met distant blue hills. To the southeast
there seemed no end but the sky.

From the level of the boat, however, we saw only a little way into the outer fringe. The water
lay among the stalks, and mud hens with white bills pushed their way busily into intricate
narrow unguessed waterways. Occasionally the hedge of the tules broke to a greater or lesser
opening into a lagoon. These were like shallow lakes, in which sometimes grew clumps of grasses.
They were covered with waterfowl. Never have I seen so many ducks and geese of all kinds. They
literally covered the surface of the water, and fairly seemed to jostle each other as they
swam busily to and fro, intent on some business of their own. Their comfortable, low conversational
clucking and quacking was a pleasure to hear. When, out of curiosity, we fired a revolver shot,
they rose in the air with a roar like that of a great waterfall, and their crossing lines of
flight in the sky was like the multitude of midges in the sun. I remember one flock of snow-white
geese that turned and wheeled, alternately throwing their bodies in shadow or in the sunlight,
so that they flashed brilliantly.

As the sun declined, the wind fell. Fortunately the current in the river was hardly perceptible.
We slipped along on glassy waters. Thousands upon thousands of blackbirds dipped across us
uttering their calls. Against a saffron sky were long lines of waterfowl, their necks outstretched.
A busy multitudinous noise of marsh birds rose and fell all about us. The sun was a huge red
ball touching the distant hills.

At last the wind failed us entirely, but the sailor got out a pair of sweeps, and we took turns
rowing. Within a half hour we caught the silhouette of three trees against the sky, and shortly
landed on a little island of solid ground. Here we made camp for the night.

All next day, and the days after, being luckily favoured by steady fair winds, we glided up
the river. I could not but wonder at the certainty with which our sailor picked the right passage
from the numerous false channels that offered themselves. The water was beautifully clear and
sweet; quite different from the muddy currents of to-day. Shortly the solid ground had drawn
nearer; so that often we passed long stretches of earth standing above the tule-grown water.
Along these strips grew sycamore and cottonwood trees of great size, and hanging vines of the
wild grape. The trees were as yet bare of leaves, but everything else was green and beautiful.
We could see the tracks of many deer along the flats, but caught no sight of the animals themselves.
At one place, however, we did frighten a small band of half a dozen elk. They crashed away
recklessly through the brush, making noise and splashing enough for a hundred. Yank threw one
of his little pea bullets after them; and certainly hit, for we found drops of blood. The sailor
shook his head disparagingly over the size of the rifle balls, to Yank's vast disgust. I never
saw him come nearer to losing his temper. As a matter of fact I think the sailor's contention
had something in it; the long accurate weapon with its tiny missile was probably all right
when its user had a chance to plant the bullet exactly in a fatal spot, but not for such quick
snap shooting as this. At any rate our visions of cheap fresh meat vanished on the hoof.

The last day out we came into a wide bottomland country with oaks. The distant blue hills had
grown, and had become slate-gray. At noon we discerned ahead of us a low bluff, and a fork
in the river; and among the oak trees the gleam of tents, and before them a tracery of masts
where the boats and small ships lay moored to the trees. This was the embarcadero of Sutter's
Fort beyond; or the new city of Sacramento, whichever you pleased. Here our boat journey ended.

We disembarked into a welter of confusion. Dust, men, mules, oxen, bales, boxes, barrels, and
more dust. Everything was in the open air. Tents were pitched in the open, under the great
oaks, anywhere and everywhere. Next, the river, and for perhaps a hundred yards from the banks,
the canvas structures were arranged in rows along what were evidently intended to be streets;
but beyond that every one simply "squatted" where he pleased. We tramped about until we found
a clear space, and there dumped down our effects. They were simple enough; and our housekeeping
consisted in spreading our blankets and canvas, and unpacking our frying pan and pots. The
entire list of our provisions consisted of pork, flour, salt, tea, coffee, sugar, tobacco,
and some spirits.

After supper we went out in a body to see what we could find out concerning our way to the
mines. We did not even possess a definite idea as to where we wanted to go!

In this quest we ran across our first definite discouragement. The place was full of men and
they were all willing to talk. Fully three quarters were, like ourselves, headed toward the
mines; and were consequently full of theoretical advice. The less they actually knew the more
insistent they were that theirs was the only one sure route or locality or method. Of the remainder
probably half were the permanent population of the place, and busily occupied in making what
money they could. They were storekeepers, gamblers, wagon owners, saloonkeepers, transportation
men. Of course we could quickly have had from most of these men very definite and practical
advice as to where to go and how to get there; but the advice would most likely have been strongly
tempered with self-interest. The rest of those we encountered were on their way back from the
mines. And from them we got our first dash of cold water in the face.

According to them the whole gold-fable was vastly exaggerated. To be sure there was gold, no
one could deny that, but it occurred very rarely, and in terrible places to get at. One had
to put in ten dollars' worth of work, to get out one dollars' worth of dust. And provisions
were so high that the cost of living ate up all the profits. Besides, we were much too late.
All the good claims had been taken up and worked out by the earliest comers. There was much
sickness in the mines, and men were dying like flies. A man was a fool ever to leave home but
a double-dyed fool not to return there as soon as possible. Thus the army of the discouraged.
There were so many of them, and they talked so convincingly, that I, for one, felt my golden
dream dissipating; and a glance at Johnny's face showed that he was much in the same frame
of mind. We were very young; and we had so long been keyed up so high that a reaction was almost
inevitable. Yank showed no sign; but chewed his tobacco imperturbably.

We continued our inquiries, however, and had soon acquired a mass of varied information. The
nearest mines were about sixty miles away; we could get our freight transported that far by
the native Californian cargadores at fifty dollars the hundredweight. Or we could walk and
carry our own goods. Or we might buy a horse or so to pack in our belongings. If we wanted
to talk to the cargadores we must visit their camp over toward the south; if we wanted to buy
horses we could do nothing better than to talk to McClellan, at Sutter's Fort. Fifty dollars
a hundred seemed pretty steep for freighting; we would not be able to carry all we owned on
our backs; we decided to try to buy the horses.

Accordingly next morning, after a delicious sleep under the open sky, we set out to cover the
three or four miles to Sutter's Fort.

This was my first sight of the California country landscape, and I saw it at the most beautiful
time of year. The low-rolling hills were bright green, against which blended the darker green
of the parklike oaks. Over the slopes were washes of colour where the wild flowers grew, like
bright scarves laid out in the sun. They were of deep orange, or an equally deep blue, or,
perhaps, of mingled white and purple. Each variety, and there were many of them, seemed to
grow by itself so that the colours were massed. Johnny muttered something about "the trailing
glory--banners of the hills"; but whether that was a quotation or just Johnny I do not know.

The air was very warm and grateful, and the sky extraordinarily blue. Broad-pinioned birds
wheeled slowly, very high; and all about us, on the tips of swaying bushes and in the tops
of trees, thousands of golden larks were singing. They were in appearance like our meadow-larks
back east, but their note was quite different; more joyous and lilting, but with the same liquid
quality. We flushed many sparrows of different sorts; and we saw the plumed quail, the gallant,
trim, little, well-groomed gentlemen, running rapidly ahead of us. And over it all showered
the clear warmth of the sun, like some subtle golden ether that dissolved and disengaged from
the sleeping hills multitudinous hummings of insects, songs of birds, odours of earth, perfumes
of flowers.

In spite of ourselves our spirits rose. We forgot our anxious figurings on ways and means,
our too concentrated hopes of success, our feverish, intent, single-minded desire for gold.
Three abreast we marched forward through the waving, shimmering wild oats, humming once more
the strains of the silly little song to which the gold seekers had elected to stride:

    "I soon shall be in mining camps,
    And then I'll look around,
    And when I see the gold-dust there,
    I'll pick it off the ground.

Even old Yank joined in the chorus, and he had about as much voice as a rusty windmill, and
about the same idea of tune as a hog has of war.

    "Oh, Susannah! don't you cry for me!
    I'm off to California with my washbowl on my knee!"

We topped a rise and advanced on Sutter's Fort as though we intended by force and arms to take
that historic post.

PART III

THE MINES

CHAPTER XIV

SUTTER'S FORT

Sutter's Fort was situated at the edge of the live-oak park. We found it to resemble a real
fort, with high walls, bastions, and a single gate at each end through which one entered to
a large enclosed square, perhaps a hundred and fifty yards long by fifty wide. The walls were
not pierced for guns; and the defence seemed to depend entirely on the jutting bastions. The
walls were double, and about twenty-five feet apart. Thus by roofing over this space, and dividing
it with partitions, Sutter had made up his barracks, blacksmith shop, bakery, and the like.
Later in our investigations we even ran across a woollen factory, a distillery, a billiard
room, and a bowling alley! At the southern end of this long space stood a two-story house.
Directly opposite the two-story house and at the other end of the enclosure was an adobe corral.

The place was crowded with people. A hundred or so miners rushed here and there on apparently
very important business, or loafed contentedly against the posts or the sun-warmth of adobe
walls. In this latter occupation they were aided and abetted by a number of the native Californians.
Perhaps a hundred Indians were leading horses, carrying burdens or engaged in some other heavy
toil. They were the first we had seen, and we examined them with considerable curiosity. A
good many of them were nearly naked; but some had on portions of battered civilized apparel.
Very few could make up a full suit of clothes; but contented themselves with either a coat,
or a shirt, or a pair of pantaloons, or even with only a hat, as the case might be. They were
very swarthy, squat, villainous-looking savages, with big heads, low foreheads, coarse hair,
and beady little eyes.

We stopped for some time near the sentry box at the entrance, accustoming ourselves to the
whirl and movement. Then we set out to find McClellan. He was almost immediately pointed out
to us, a short, square, businesslike man, with a hard gray face, dealing competently with the
pressure. A score of men surrounded him, each eager for his attention. While we hovered, awaiting
our chance, two men walked in through the gate. They were accorded the compliment of almost
a complete silence on the part of those who caught sight of them.

The first was a Californian about thirty-five or forty years of age, a man of a lofty, stern
bearing, swarthy skin, glossy side whiskers, and bright supercilious eyes. He wore a light
blue short jacket trimmed with scarlet and with silver buttons, a striped silk sash, breeches
of crimson velvet met below by long embroidered deerskin boots. A black kerchief was bound
crosswise on his head entirely concealing the hair; and a flat-crowned, wide, gray hat heavily
ornamented with silver completed this gorgeous costume. He moved with the assured air of the
aristocrat. The splendour of his apparel, the beauty of his face and figure, and the grace
of his movements attracted the first glance from all eyes. Then immediately he was passed over
in favour of his companion.

The latter was a shorter, heavier man, of more mature years. In fact his side whiskers were
beginning to turn gray. His costume was plain, but exquisitely neat, and a strange blend of
the civil and the military. The jacket for example, had been cut in the trim military fashion,
but was worn open to exhibit the snowy cascade of the linen beneath. But nobody paid much attention
to the man's dress. The dignity and assured calm of his face and eye at once impressed one
with conviction of unusual quality.

Johnny stared for a moment, his brows knit. Then with an exclamation, he sprang forward.

"Captain Sutter!" he cried.

Sutter turned slowly, to look Johnny squarely in the face, his attitude one of cold but courteous
inquiry. Johnny was approaching, hat in hand. I confess he astonished me. We had known him
intimately for some months, and always as the harum-scarum, impulsive, hail fellow, bubbling,
irresponsible. Now a new Johnny stepped forward, quiet, high-bred, courteous, self-contained.
Before he had spoken a word, Captain Sutter's aloof expression had relaxed.

"I beg your pardon for addressing you so abruptly," Johnny was saying. "The surprise of the
moment must excuse me. Ten years ago, sir, I had the pleasure of meeting you at the time you
visited my father in Virginia."

"My dear boy!" cried Sutter. "You are, of course the son of Colonel Fairfax. But ten years
ago--you were a very young man!"

"A small boy, rather," laughed Johnny.

They chatted for a few moments, exchanging news, I suppose, though they had drawn beyond our
ear-shot. In a few moments we were summoned, and presented; first to Captain Sutter, then to
Don Gaspar Martinez. The latter talked English well. Yank and I, both somewhat silent and embarrassed
before all this splendour of manner, trailed the triumphal progress like two small boys. We
were glad to trail, however. Captain Sutter took us about, showing us in turn all the many
industries of the place.

"The old peaceful life is gone," said he. "The fort has become a trading post for miners. It
is difficult now to get labour for my crops, and I have nearly abandoned cultivation. My Indians
I have sent out to mine for me."

He showed us a row of long troughs outside the walls to which his Indian workmen had come twice
a day for their rations of wheat porridge. "They scooped it out with their hands," he told
us, "like animals." Also he pointed out the council circle beneath the trees where he used
to meet the Indians. He had great influence with the surrounding tribes; and had always managed
to live peacefully with them.

"But that is passing," said he. "The American miners, quite naturally, treat them as men; and
they are really children. It makes misunderstanding, and bloodshed, and reprisals. The era
of good feeling is about over. They still trust me, however, and will work for me."

Don Gaspar here excused himself on the ground of business, promising to rejoin us later.

"That trouble will come upon us next," said Captain Sutter, nodding after the Spaniard's retreating
form. "It is already beginning. The Californians hold vast quantities of land with which they
do almost nothing. A numerous and energetic race is coming; and it will require room. There
is conflict there. And their titles are mixed; very mixed. It will behoove a man to hold a
very clear title when the time comes."

"Your own titles are doubtless clear and strong," suggested Johnny.

"None better. My grant here came directly from the Mexican government itself." The Captain
paused to chuckle, "I suspect that the reason it was given me so freely was political--there
existed at that time a desire to break up the power of the Missions; and the establishment
of rival colonies on a large scale would help to do that. The government evidently thought
me competent to undertake the opening of this new country."

"Your grant is a large one?" surmised Johnny.

"Sixty miles by about twelve," said Captain Sutter.

We had by now finished our inspection, and stood by the southern gate.

"I am sorry," said Captain Sutter, "that I am not in a position to offer you hospitality. My
own residence is at a farm on the Feather River. This fort, as no doubt you are aware, I have
sold to the traders. In the changed conditions it is no longer necessary to me."

"Do you not regret the changed conditions?" asked Johnny after a moment. "I can imagine the
interest in building a new community--all these industries, the training of the Indians to
work, the growing of crops, the raising of cattle."

"One may regret changed conditions; but one cannot prevent their changing," said Captain Sutter
in his even, placid manner. "The old condition was a very pleasant dream; this is a reality."

We walked back through the enclosure. Our companion was greeted on all sides with the greatest
respect and affection. To all he responded with benign but unapproachable dignity. From the
vociferating group he called the trader, McClellan, to whom he introduced us, all three, with
urbane formality.

"These young men," he told McClellan, who listened to him intently, his brows knit, "are more
than acquaintances, they are very especial old friends of mine. I wish to bespeak your good
offices for what they may require. They are on their way to the mines. And now, gentlemen,
I repeat, I am delighted to have had this opportunity; I wish you the best of luck; and I sincerely
hope you may be able to visit me at Feather River, where you are always sure of a hearty welcome.
Treat them well, McClellan."

"You know, Cap'n, friends of your'n are friends of mine," said McClellan briefly.

At the end of half an hour we found ourselves in possession of two pack-horses and saddles,
and a load of provisions.

"Look out for hoss thieves," advised McClellan. "These yere Greasers will follow you for days
waitin' for a chance to git your stock. Don't picket with rawhide rope or the coyotes are likely
to knaw yore animiles loose. Better buy a couple of ha'r ropes from the nearest Mex. Take care
of yoreselves. Good-bye." He was immediately immersed in his flood of business.

We were in no hurry to return, so we put in an hour or so talking with the idlers. From them
we heard much praise for Sutter. He had sent out such and such expeditions to rescue snow-bound
immigrants in the mountains; he had received hospitably the travel-worn transcontinentals;
he had given freely to the indigent; and so on without end. I am very glad that even at second
hand I had the chance to know this great-hearted old soldier of Charles X while in the glory
of his possessions and the esteem of men. Acre by acre his lands were filched from him; and
he died in Washington vainly petitioning Congress for restitution.

CHAPTER XV

THE GOLD TRAIL

We loaded our pack-horses, and set off next morning early on the trail up the American River.
At last, it seemed to us, we were really under way; as though our long journeyings and many
experiences had been but a preparation for this start. Our spirits were high, and we laughed
and joked and sang extravagantly. Even Yank woke up and acted like a frisky colt. Such early
wayfarers as we met, we hailed with shouts and chaffing; nor were we in the least abashed by
an occasional surly response, or the not infrequent attempts to discourage our hopes. For when
one man said there was no gold; another was as confident that the diggings were not even scratched.

The morning was a very fine one; a little chilly, with a thin white mist hanging low along
the ground. This the sun soon dissipated. The birds sang everywhere. We trudged along the dusty
road merrily.

Every little while we stopped to readjust the burdens to our animals. A mountaineer had showed
us how to lash them on, but our skill at that sort of thing was miner's, and the packs would
not hold. We had to do them one at a time, using the packed animal as a pattern from which
to copy the hitch on the other. In this painful manner we learned the Squaw Hitch, which, for
a long time, was to be the extent of our knowledge. However, we got on well enough, and mounted
steadily by the turns and twists of an awful road, following the general course of the river
below us.

On the hills grew high brush, some of it very beautiful. The buckthorn, for example, was just
coming out; and the dogwood, and the mountain laurel. At first these clumps of bush were few
and scattered; and the surface of the hills, carpeted with short grass, rolled gently away,
or broke in stone dikes and outcrops. Then later, as we mounted, they drew together until they
covered the mountainsides completely, save where oaks and madrone kept clear some space for
themselves. After a time we began to see a scrubby long-needled pine thrusting its head here
and there above the undergrowth. That was as far as we got that day. In the hollow of a ravine
we found a tiny rill of water, and there we camped. Johnny offered some slight objections at
first. It was only two o'clock of the afternoon, the trees were scrubby, the soil dusty, the
place generally uncomfortable. But Yank shook his head.

"If we knew how they played this game, it might be all right to go ahead. But we don't," said
he. "I've been noticing this trail pretty close; and I ain't seen much water except in the
river; and that's an awful ways down. Maybe we'll find some water over the next hill, and maybe
we won't. But we know there's water here. Then there's the question of hoss thieves. McClellan
strikes me as a man to be believed. I don't know how they act; but you bet no hoss thief gets
off with my hoss and me watchin'. But at night it's different, I don't know how they do things.
But I do know that if we tie our hosses next us, they won't be stolen. And that's what I aim
to do. But if we do that, we got to give them a chance to eat, hain't we? So we'll let them
feed the rest of the afternoon, and we'll tie em up to-night."

This was much talk for Yank. In fact, the only time that taciturn individual ever would open
up was in explanation of or argument about some expedient of wilderness life or travel. It
sounded entirely logical. So we made camp.

Yank turned the two horses out into a grass meadow, and sat, his back against an oak tree,
smoking his pipe and watching them. Johnny and I unrolled the beds, sorted out the simple cooking
utensils, and started to cook. Occasional travellers on the road just above us shouted out
friendly greetings. They were a miscellaneous lot. Most were headed toward the mountains. These
journeyed in various ways. Some walked afoot and unencumbered, some carried apparently all
their belongings on their backs, one outfit comprising three men had three saddle horses and
four packs--a princely caravan. One of the cargadores' pack-trains went up the road enveloped
in a thick cloud of dust--twenty or thirty pack-mules and four men on horseback herding them
forward. A white mare, unharnessed save for a clanging bell, led the way; and all the mules
followed her slavishly, the nose of one touching the tail of the other, as is the mule's besotted
fashion. They were gay little animals, with silver buttons on their harness, and yellow sheepskin
linings to their saddles. They carried a great variety of all sorts of things; and at the freighting
rates quoted to us must have made money for their owners. Their drivers were a picturesque
quartette in sombreros, wide sashes, and flowing garments. They sat their animals with a graceful
careless ease beautiful to behold.

Near sundown two horsemen turned off the trail and rode down to our little trickle of water.
When they drew near we recognized in one of them Don Gaspar Martinez. He wore still his gorgeous
apparel of the day before, with only the addition of a pair of heavy silver ornamented spurs
on his heels, and a brace of pistols in his sash. His horse, a magnificent chestnut, was harnessed
in equal gorgeousness, with silvered broad bit, silver chains jangling therefrom, a plaited
rawhide bridle and reins, a carved leather, high-pommelled saddle, also silver ornamented,
and a bright coloured, woven saddle blanket beneath. The animal stepped daintily and proudly,
lifting his little feet and planting them among the stones as though fastidiously. The man
who rode with Don Gaspar was evidently of a lower class. He was, however, a straight handsome
young fellow enough, with a dark clear complexion, a small moustache, and a pleasant smile.
His dress and accoutrements were on the same general order as those of Don Gaspar, but of quieter
colour and more serviceable material. His horse, however, was of the same high-bred type. A
third animal followed, unled, packed with two cowhide boxes.

The Spaniard rode up to us and saluted courteously; then his eye lit with recognition.

"Ah," said he, "the good friends of our Capitan Sutter! This is to be well met. If it is not
too much I would beg the favour of to camp."

"By all means, Don Gaspar," said Johnny rising. "The pleasure is of course our own."

Again saluting us, Don Gaspar and his companion withdrew a short distance up the little meadow.
There the Spaniard sat down beneath a bush and proceeded to smoke a cigaretto, while his companion
unsaddled the horses, turned them loose to graze, stacked up their saddles, and made simple
camping arrangements.

"Old Plush Pants doesn't intend to do any work if he catches sight of it first," observed Johnny.

"Probably the other man is a servant?" I suggested.

"More likely a sort of dependent," amended Johnny. "They run a kind of patriarchal establishment,
I've been told."

"Don't use them big words, Johnny," complained Yank, coming up with the horses.

"I meant they make the poor relations and kid brothers do the hustling," said Johnny.

"Now I understand you," said Yank. "I wish I could see what they do with their hosses nights.
I bet they know how. And if I was a hoss thief, I'd surely take a long chance for that chestnut
gelding."

"You might wander over later and find out," I suggested.

"And get my system full of lead--sure," said Yank.

The two camps did not exchange visits. We caught the flicker of their little fire; but we were
really too tired to be curious, and we turned in early, our two animals tied fast to small
trees at our feet.

The next day lifted us into the mountains. Big green peaks across which hung a bluish haze
showed themselves between the hills. The latter were more precipitous; and the brush had now
given way to pines of better size and quality than those seen lower down. The river foamed
over rapids or ran darkling in pools and stretches. Along the roadside, rarely, we came upon
rough-looking log cabins, or shacks of canvas, or tents. The owners were not at home. We thought
them miners; but in the light of subsequent knowledge I believe that unlikely--the diggings
were farther in.

Johnny held the pail, while Yank and I vied with each other in being the first to get our shovelfuls
into that receptacle. As a consequence we nearly swamped the pail first off, and had to pour
some of the earth out again. Then we all three ran down to the river and took turns stirring
that mud pie beneath the gently flowing waters in the manner of the "pot panners" we had first
watched. After a good deal of trouble we found ourselves possessed of a thick layer of rocks
and coarse pebbles.

"We forgot to screen it," I pointed out.

"We haven't any screen," said Johnny.

"Let's pick 'em out by hand?" suggested Yank.

We did so. The process emptied the pail. Each of us insisted on examining closely; but none
of us succeeded in creating out of our desires any of that alluring black sand.

"I suppose we can't expect to get colour every time?" observed Johnny disappointedly. "Let's
try her again."

We tried her again; and yet again; and then some more; but always with the same result. Our
hands became puffed and wrinkled with constant immersion in the water, and began to feel sore
from the continual stirring of the rubble.

"Something wrong," grunted Johnny into the abysmal silence in which we had been carrying on
our work.

"We can't expect it every time," I reminded him.

"All the others seem to."

"Well, maybe we've struck a blank place; let's try somewhere else," suggested Yank.

Johnny went over to speak to our neighbour, who was engaged in tossing out shovelfuls of earth
from an excavation into which he had nearly disappeared. At Johnny's hail, he straightened
his back, so that his head bobbed out of the hole like a prairie dog.

"No, it doesn't matter where you dig," he answered Johnny's question. "The pay dirt is everywhere."

So we moved on a few hundred feet, picked another unoccupied patch, and resumed our efforts.
No greater success rewarded us here.

"I believe maybe we ought to go deeper," surmised Yank.

"Some of these fellows are taking their dirt right off top of the ground," objected Johnny.

However, we unlimbered the pickaxe and went deeper; to the extent of two feet or more. It was
good hard work, especially as we were all soft for it. The sun poured down on our backs with
burning intensity; our hands blistered; and the round rocks and half-cemented rubble that made
the bar were not the easiest things in the world to remove. However, we kept at it. Yank and
I, having in times past been more or less accustomed to this sort of thing, got off much easier
than did poor Johnny. About two feet down we came to a mixed coarse sand and stones, a little
finer than the top dirt. This seemed to us promising, so we resumed our washing operations.
They bore the same results as had the first; which was just the whole of nothing.

"We've got to hit it somewhere," said Johnny between his teeth. "Let's try another place."

We scrambled rather wearily, but with a dogged determination, out of our shallow hole. Our
blue-eyed, long-bearded friend was sitting on a convenient boulder near at hand, his pipe between
his teeth, watching our operations.

"Got any tobacco, boys?" he inquired genially. "Smoked my last until to-night, unless you'll lend."

Yank produced a plug, from which the stranger shaved some parings.

"Struck the dirt?" he inquired. "No, I see you haven't." He stretched himself and arose. "You
aren't washing this stuff!" he cried in amazement, as his eye took in fully what we were about.

Then we learned what we might have known before--but how should we?--that the gold was not
to be found in any and every sort of loose earth that might happen to be lying about, but only
in either a sort of blue clay or a pulverized granite. Sometimes this "pay dirt" would be found
atop the ground. Again, the miner had to dig for it.

"All the surface diggings are taken up," our friend told us. "So now you have to dig deep.
It's about four feet down where I'm working. It'll probably be deeper up here. You'd better
move back where you were."

Yank, stretched himself upright.

"Look here," he said decidedly; "let's get a little sense into ourselves. Here's our pore old
hosses standing with their packs on, and we no place to stay, and no dinner; and we're scratchin'
away at this bar like a lot of fool hens. There's other days comin'."

Johnny and I agreed with the common sense of the thing, but reluctantly. Now that we knew how,
our enthusiasm surged up again. We wanted to get at it. The stranger's eyes twinkled sympathetically.

"Here, boys," said he, "I know just how you feel. Come with me."

He snatched up our bucket and strode back to his own claim, where he filled the receptacle
with some of the earth he had thrown out.

"Go pan that," he advised us kindly.

We raced to the water, and once more stirred about the heavy contents of the pail until they
had floated off with the water. In the bottom lay a fine black residue; and in that residue
glittered the tiny yellow particles. We had actually panned our first gold!

Our friend examined it critically.

"That's about a twelve-cent pan," he adjudged it.

Somehow, in a vague way, we had unreasonably expected millions at a twist of the wrist; and
the words, "twelve cents," had a rankly penurious sound to us. However, the miner patiently
explained that a twelve-cent pan was a very good one; and indubitably it was real gold.

Yank, being older and less excitable, had not accompanied us to the waterside.

"Well, boys," he drawled, "that twelve cents is highly satisfactory, of course; but in the
meantime we've lost about six hundred dollars' worth of hoss and grub."

Surely enough, our animals had tired of waiting for us, and had moved out packs and all. We
hastily shouldered our implements.

"Don't you want to keep this claim next me?" inquired our acquaintance.

We stopped.

"Surely!" I replied. "But how do we do it?"

"Just leave your pick and shovel in the hole."

"Won't some one steal them?"

"No."

"What's to prevent?" I asked a little skeptically.

"Miners' law," he replied.

We almost immediately got trace of our strayed animals, as a number of men had seen them going
upstream. In fact we had no difficulty whatever in finding them for they had simply followed
up the rough stream-bed between the cañon walls until it had opened up to a gentler slope and
a hanging garden of grass and flowers. Here they had turned aside and were feeding. We caught
them, and were just heading them back, when Yank stopped short.

"What's the matter with this here?" he inquired. "Here's feed, and water near, and it ain't
so very far back to the diggings."

We looked about us, for the first time with seeing eyes. The little up-sloping meadow was blue
and dull red with flowers; below us the stream brawled foam flecked among black rocks; the
high hills rose up to meet the sky, and at our backs across the way the pines stood thick serried.
Far up in the blue heavens some birds were circling slowly. Somehow the leisurely swing of
these unhasting birds struck from us the feverish hurry that had lately filled our souls. We
drew deep breaths; and for the first time the great peace and majesty of these California mountains
cooled our spirits.

"I think it's a bully place, Yank," said Johnny soberly, "and that little bench up above us
looks flat."

We clambered across the slant of the flower-spangled meadow to the bench, just within the fringe
of the pines. It proved to be flat, and from the edge of it down the hill seeped a little spring
marked by the feathery bracken. We entered a cool green place, peopled with shadows and the
rare, considered notes of soft-voiced birds. Just over our threshold, as it were, was the sunlit,
chirpy, buzzing, bright-coloured, busy world. Overhead a wind of many voices hummed through
the pine tops. The golden sunlight flooded the mountains opposite, flashed from the stream,
lay languorous on the meadow. Long bars of it slanted through an unguessed gap in the hills
behind us to touch with magic the very tops of the trees over our heads. The sheen of the precious
metal was over the land.

CHAPTER XVI

THE FIRST GOLD

We arose before daylight, picketed our horses, left our dishes unwashed, and hurried down to
the diggings just at sun-up carrying our gold pans or "washbowls," and our extra tools. The
bar was as yet deserted. We set to work with a will, taking turns with the pickaxe and the
two shovels. I must confess that our speed slowed down considerably after the first wild burst,
but we kept at it steadily. It was hard work, and there is no denying it, just the sort of
plain hard work the day labourer does when he digs sewer trenches in the city streets. Only
worse, perhaps, owing to the nature of the soil. It has struck me since that those few years
of hard labour in the diggings, from '49 to '53 or '54, saw more actual manual toil accomplished
than was ever before performed in the same time by the same number of men. The discouragement
of those returning we now understood. They had expected to take the gold without toil; and
were dismayed at the labour it had required. At any rate, we thought we were doing our share
that morning, especially after the sun came up. We wielded our implements manfully, piled our
débris to one side, and gradually achieved a sort of crumbling uncertain excavation reluctant
to stay emptied.

About an hour after our arrival the other miners began to appear, smoking their pipes. They
stretched themselves lazily, spat upon their hands, and set to. Our friend of the day before
nodded at us cheerfully, and hopped down into his hole.

We removed what seemed to us tons of rock. About noon, just as we were thinking rather dispiritedly
of knocking off work for a lunch--which in our early morning eagerness we had forgotten to
bring--Johnny turned up a shovelful whose lower third consisted of the pulverized bluish clay.
We promptly forgot both lunch and our own weariness.

"Hey!" shouted our friend, scrambling from his own claim. "Easy with the rocks! What are you
conducting here? a volcano?" He peered down at us. "Pay dirt, hey? Well, take it easy; it won't
run away!"

Take it easy! As well ask us to quit entirely! We tore at the rubble, which aggravatingly and
obstinately cascaded down upon us from the sides; we scraped eagerly for more of that blue
clay; at last we had filled our three pans with a rather mixed lot of the dirt, and raced to
the river. Johnny fell over a boulder and scattered his panful far and wide. His manner of
scuttling back to the hole after more reminded me irresistibly of the way a contestant in a
candle race hurries back to the starting point to get his candle relighted.

We panned that dirt clumsily and hastily enough; and undoubtedly lost much valuable sand overside;
but we ended each with a string of colour. We crowded together comparing our "pans." Then we
went crazy. I suppose we had about a quarter of a dollar's worth of gold between us, but that
was not the point. The long journey with all its hardships and adventures, the toil, the uncertainty,
the hopes, the disappointments and reactions had at last their visible tangible conclusion.
The tiny flecks of gold were a symbol. We yapped aloud, we kicked up our heels, we shook hands,
we finally joined hands and danced around and around.

From all sides the miners came running up, dropping their tools with a clatter. We were assailed
by a chorus of eager cries.

"What is it, boys?" "A strike?" "Whereabouts is your claim?" "Is it 'flour' or 'flake'?" "Let's
see!"

They crowded around in a dense mob, and those nearest jostled to get a glimpse of our pans.
Suddenly sobered by this interest in our doings, we would have edged away could we have got
hold of our implements.

"Wall, I'll be durned!" snorted a tall state of Maine man in disgust. "This ain't no strike!
This is an insane asylum."

The news slowly penetrated the crowd. A roar of laughter went up. Most of the men were hugely
amused; but some few were so disgusted at having been fooled that they were almost inclined
to take it as a personal affront that we had not made the expected "strike."

"You'd think they was a bunch of confounded Keskydees," growled one of them.

The miners slowly dispersed, returning to their own diggings. Somewhat red-faced, and very
silent, we gathered up our pans and slunk back to the claim. Our neighbour stuck his head out
of his hole. He alone had not joined the stampede in our direction.

"How do you like being popular heroes?" he grinned.

Johnny made as though to shy a rock at him, whereupon he ducked below ground.

However, our spirits soon recovered. We dumped the black sand into a little sack we had brought
for the purpose. It made quite an appreciable bulge in that sack. We did not stop to realize
that most of the bulge was sack and sand, and mighty little of it gold. It was something tangible
and valuable; and we were filled with a tremendous desire to add to its bulk.

We worked with entire absorption, quite oblivious to all that was going on about us. It was
only by accident that Yank looked up at last, so I do not know how long Don Gaspar had been there.

"Will you look at that!" cried Yank.

Don Gaspar, still in his embroidered boots, his crimson velvet breeches, his white linen, and
his sombrero, but without the blue and silver jacket, was busily wielding a pickaxe a hundred
feet or so away. His companion, or servant, was doing the heavier shovel work.

"Why, oh, why!" breathed Johnny at last, "do you suppose, if he must mine, he doesn't buy himself
a suit of dungarees or a flannel shirt?"

"I'll bet it's the first hard work he ever did in his life," surmised Yank.

"And I'll bet he won't do that very long," I guessed.

But Don Gaspar seemed to have more sticking power than we gave him credit for. We did not pay
him much further attention, for we were busy with our own affairs; but every time we glanced
in his direction he appeared to be still at it. Our sack of sand was growing heavier; as indeed
were our limbs. As a matter of fact we had been at harder work than any of us had been accustomed
to, for very long hours, beneath a scorching sun, without food, and under strong excitement.
We did not know when to quit; but the sun at last decided it for us by dipping below the mountains
to the west.

We left our picks and shovels in our pit; but carried back with us our pans, for in them we
wished to dry out our sand. The horses were still at their picket ropes; and we noticed near
the lower end of the meadow, but within the bushes, three more animals moving slowly. A slim
column of smoke ascended from beyond the bushes. Evidently we had neighbours.

We were dog tired, and so far starved that we did not know we were hungry. My eyes felt as
though they must look like holes burned in a blanket. We lit a fire, and near it placed our
panful of sand. But we did not take time to cook ourselves a decent meal; we were much too
excited for that. A half-made pot of coffee, some pork burned crisp, and some hard bread comprised
our supper. Then Yank and I took a handful of the dried sand in the other two pans, and commenced
cautiously to blow it away. Johnny hovered over us full of suggestions, and premonitions of
calamity.

"Don't blow too, hard, fellows," he besought us; "you'll blow away the gold! For heaven's sake,
go easy!"

We growled at him, and blew. I confess that my heart went fast with great anxiety, as though
the stakes of my correct blowing were millions. However, as we later discovered, it is almost
impossible to blow incorrectly.

There is something really a little awing about pure gold new-born from the soil. Gold is such
a stable article, so strictly guarded, so carefully checked and counted, that the actual production
of metal that has had no existence savours almost of the alchemical. We had somewhat less than
an ounce, to be sure; but that amount in flake gold bulks considerably. We did not think of
it in terms of its worth in dollars; we looked on it only as the Gold, and we stared at the
substantial little heap of yellow particles with fascinated awe.

CHAPTER XVII

THE DIGGINGS

The following days were replicas of the first. We ate hurriedly at odd times; we worked feverishly;
we sank into our tumbled blankets at night too tired to wiggle. But the buckskin sack of gold
was swelling and rounding out most satisfactorily. By the end of the week it contained over
a pound!

But the long hours, the excitement, and the inadequate food told on our nerves. We snapped
at each other impatiently at times; and once or twice came near to open quarrelling. Johnny
and I were constantly pecking at each other over the most trivial concerns.

One morning we were halfway to the bar when we remembered that we had neglected to picket out
the horses. It was necessary for one of us to go back, and we were all reluctant to do so.

"I'll be damned if I'm going to lug 'way up that hill," I growled to myself. "I tied them up
yesterday, anyway."

Johnny caught this.

"Well, it wasn't your turn yesterday," he pointed out, "and it is to-day. I've got nothing
to do with what you chose to do yesterday."

"Or any other day," I muttered.

"What's that?" cried Johnny truculently. "I couldn't hear. Speak up!"

We were flushed, and eying each other malevolently.

"That'll do!" said Yank, with an unexpected tone of authority. "Nobody will go back, and nobody
will go ahead. We'll just sit down on this log, yere, while we smoke one pipe apiece. I've
got something to say."

Johnny and I turned on him with a certain belligerency mingled with surprise. Yank had so habitually
acted the part of taciturnity that his decided air of authority confused us. His slouch had
straightened, his head was up, his mild eye sparkled. Suddenly I felt like a bad small boy;
and I believe Johnny was the same. After a moment's hesitation we sat down on the log.

"Now," said Yank firmly, "it's about time we took stock. We been here now five days; we ain't
had a decent meal of vittles in that time; we ain't fixed up our camp a mite; we ain't been
to town to see the sights; we don't even know the looks of the man that's camped down below
us. We've been too danged busy to be decent. Now we're goin' to call a halt. I should jedge
we have a pound of gold, or tharabouts. How much is that worth, Johnny? You can figger in yore
head."

"Along about two hundred and fifty dollars," said Johnny after a moment.

"Well, keep on figgerin'. How much does that come to apiece?"

"About eighty dollars, of course."

"And dividin' eighty by five?" persisted Yank.

"Sixteen."

"Well," drawled Yank, his steely blue eye softening to a twinkle, "sixteen dollars a day is
fair wages, to be sure; but nothin' to get wildly excited over." He surveyed the two of us
with some humour. "Hadn't thought of it that way, had you?" he asked. "Nuther had I until last
night. I was so dog tired I couldn't sleep, and I got to figgerin' a little on my own hook."

"Why, I can do better than that in San Francisco--with half the work!" I cried.

"Maybe for a while," said Yank, "but here we got a chance to make a big strike most any time;
and in the meantime to make good wages. But we ain't going to do it any quicker by killin'
ourselves. Now to-day is Sunday. I ain't no religious man; but Sunday is a good day to quit.
I propose we go back to camp peaceable, make a decent place to stay, cook ourselves up a squar'
meal, wash out our clothes, visit the next camp, take a look at town, and enjoy ourselves."

Thus vanished the first and most wonderful romance of the gold. Reduced to wages it was somehow
no longer so marvellous. The element of uncertainty was always there, to be sure; and an inexplicable
fascination; but no longer had we any desire to dig up the whole place immediately. I suppose
we moved nearly as much earth, but the fibres of our minds were relaxed, and we did it more
easily and with less nervous wear and tear.

Also, as Yank suggested, we took pains to search out our fellow beings. The camper below us
proved to be Don Gaspar, velvet breeches and all. He received us hospitably, and proffered
perfumed cigarettos which we did not like, but which we smoked out of politeness. Our common
ground of meeting was at first the natural one of the gold diggings. Don Gaspar and his man,
whom he called Vasquez, had produced somewhat less flake gold than ourselves, but exhibited
a half-ounce nugget and several smaller lumps. We could not make him out. Neither his appearance
nor his personal equipment suggested necessity; and yet he laboured as hard as the rest of
us. His gaudy costume was splashed and grimy with the red mud, although evidently he had made
some attempt to brush it. The linen was, of course, hopeless. He showed us the blisters on
his small aristocratic-looking hands.

"It is the hard work" he stated simply, "but one gets the gold."

From that subject we passed on to horses. He confessed that he was uneasy as to the safety
of his own magnificent animals; and succeeded in alarming us as to our own.

"Thos' Indian," he told us, "are always out to essteal; and the paisanos. It has been tole
me that Andreas Amijo and his robbers are near. Some day we loose our horse!"

Our anxiety at this time was given an edge by the fact that the horses, having fed well, and
becoming tired of the same place, were inclined to stray. It was impossible to keep them always
on picket lines--the nature of the meadow would not permit it--and they soon learned to be
very clever with their hobbles. Several mornings we put in an hour or so hunting them up and
bringing them in before we could start work for the day. This wasted both time and temper.
The result was that we drifted into partnership with Don Gaspar and Vasquez. I do not remember
who proposed the arrangement; indeed, I am inclined to think it just came about naturally from
our many discussions on the subject. Under the terms of it we appointed Vasquez to cook all
the meals, take full care of the horses, chop the wood, draw the water, and keep camp generally.
The rest of us worked in couples at the bar. We divided the gold into five equal parts.

Our production at this time ran from five to seven ounces a day, which was, of course, good
wages, but would not make our fortunes. We soon fell into a rut, working cheerfully and interestedly,
but without excitement. The nature of our produce kept our attention. We should long since
have wearied of any other job requiring an equal amount of work, but there was a never-ending
fascination in blowing away the débris from the virgin gold. And one day, not far from us,
two Hollanders--"Dutch Charleys," as the miners called that nationality--scooped from a depression
in the bedrock mixed coarse gold thirty odd pounds in weight--over $5,000! That revived our
interest, you may be sure.

Most of the miners seemed content to stick to panning. Their argument was that by this method
they could accumulate a fair amount of dust, and ran just as good chances of a "strike" as
the next fellow. Furthermore, they had no tools, no knowledge and no time to make cradles.
Those implements had to be very accurately constructed.

We discussed this matter almost every evening. Yank was a great believer in improving the efficiency
of our equipment.

"It'll handle four or five times the dirt," said he "and that means four or five times the dust."

"There's no lumber to be had anywhere," I objected.

"I know where there's three good stout boxes made of real lumber that we can get for forty
dollars," said Yank.

"You can't cut that stuff up with an axe."

"John Semple has a saw, a plane, and a hammer; he's a carpenter."

"You bet he is!" agreed Johnny. "I was talking to him last night. He won't lend his tools;
and he won't hire them. He'll come with them for fifty dollars a day."

"All right," said Yank, "let's hire him. I'm pretty handy, and I'll stay right in camp and
help him. Vasquez can go dig instead of me. We can get 'em cut out and fitted in two days,
anyway. We've got the money!"

I think none of us was very enthusiastic on this subject except Yank; but he finally carried
the day. Vasquez, somewhat to his chagrin, I thought, resumed his shovel. Yank and John Semple
tinkered away for the allotted two days, and triumphantly produced two cradles at a cost of
a round one hundred and fifty dollars.

Although we had been somewhat doubtful as to the advisability of spending this sum, I am bound
to state that Yank's insistence was justified. It certainly made the work easier. We took turns
shovelling the earth and pouring in the water, and "rocking the baby." Our production jumped
two or three ounces a day.

CHAPTER XVIII

BEGINNINGS OF GOVERNMENT

Our visit to the town we postponed from day to day because we were either too busy or too tired.
We thought we could about figure out what that crude sort of village would be like. Then on
Saturday evening our neighbour with the twinkling eye--whom we called McNally, without conviction,
because he told us to--informed us that there would be a miners' meeting next day, and that
we would be expected to attend.

Accordingly we visited the town. The street was full of men idling slowly to and fro. All the
larger structures were wide open, and from within could be heard the sounds of hurdy-gurdies,
loud laughter and noisy talk. At one end of the street a group was organizing a horse race;
and toward this Don Gaspar took his immediate departure. A smaller group surrounded two wrestlers.
At one side a jumping match was going on.

Among the usual incongruities we saw some that amused us more than ordinarily. The Indians,
for example, were rather numerous, and remarkable. One wore as his sole garment an old dress
coat: another had tied a pair of trousers around his waist; a third had piled a half dozen
hats atop, one over the other; and many had on two or more coats. They were, to a man, well
drunken. Their squaws, fat and unattractive, squatted outside the single store of the place.
We saw also a dozen or so white men dressed very plainly and shabbily, tall, lank, and spindly,
rather weakly in general appearance, their faces sallow, their eyes rather childish but crafty
and treacherous, their hair thin and straight. The points in common were pointed, nearly brimless
hats, like small extinguishers, and that they were the only men to use suspenders. They were
from Pike County in Missouri; and in our experience with them we found their appearance a close
indication of their character. They were exceedingly skilful with both axe and rifle, were
expert backwoodsmen, but without physical strength, very childish and ignorant, vindictive,
narrow, and so extremely clannish and tenacious of their own opinions that they were always
an exasperating element to be reckoned with, in any public matter. We saw also a compact little
group of dark small men, with bright eyes and quick manners. They held close together and chattered
like a lot of magpies. McNally, who had spotted us from afar, informed us that these were "keskydees,"
and that they always did stick close together.

"What are 'keskydees'?" I asked him.

"That's what everybody calls them," said McNally. "I suppose it's because they always say it,
'Keskydee, keskydee,' like a lot of chickadees."

"French!" cried Johnny, suddenly enlightened. "Q'estce qu'il dit."

"Yes, that's it," agreed McNally; "keskydee. What does it mean, anyway?"

"What is he saying," translated Johnny.

At this time there were a great many French in California; and for a number of years I could
not quite understand why. Then I learned that most of them were prize winners in a series of
lotteries, called the Lotteries of the Golden Ingot. The prizes were passages to California,
and the lotteries were very popular. The French, or keskydees, as they were universally called,
always went about in gangs, while the other nationalities were more inclined to amalgamate
with the rest of the community. We saw, also, several "Dutch Charleys" who had struck it rich.
They were moon-faced, bland, chuckle-headed looking men, generally with walrus moustaches,
squat and heavy, with fatuous, placid smiles. I suppose they had no real idea of values, but
knew only the difference between having money and not having money. We had three apparently,
of these Dutch Charleys, all deadly rivals in magnificence. They paraded slowly up and down
the street, quite satisfied with themselves, and casting malevolent glances at each other when
they passed.

The two gambling places and saloons were hard at it. The low rooms were full of smoke, and
crowded with slowly jostling men. In contrast to the deadly quiet of such places in San Francisco,
these were full of noise and hubbub. The men moved restlessly, threw down their little bags
of dust impatiently, and accepted victory or defeat with very audible comments. The gamblers,
dressed in black, pale, sat steady-eyed and silent behind their layouts. I suppose the life
must already have developed, if not a type, at least a uniform mental attitude that showed
itself in outward expression. That was, first of all, an intent, quiet watchfulness; and, secondly,
an iron resolution to meet whatever offered. The gambler must be prepared instantly to shoot;
and at the same time he must realize fully that shooting is going to get him in trouble. For
the sympathy of a mining camp was generally strongly against him when it came to a question
of this sort. We treated ourselves to a drink at the bar, and went outside.

Already the drift of miners was toward the end of the street where a good sized crowd had gathered.
We fell in. Under a large oak tree had been placed a barrel and several boxes from the store,
and on these latter our friend John Semple, the carpenter, was mounting.

"John's the alcalde," McNally explained to us. "He's the most level-headed man in these diggings."

Most of the miners sat down on the ground in front, though some remained afoot. Semple rapped
sharply on the barrel with the muzzle of his revolver.

"This is a miners' meeting," he stated briefly. "And we have several things to talk about.
Most important thing, 'cordin' to my notion, is this row about that big nugget. Seems these
yere three men, whose names I disremember, is partners and is panning down there in the lower
diggings, and while one of them is grubbing around with a shovel getting ready to fill the
company pan, he sees this yere nugget in the shovel, and annexes it. Now he claims it's his
nugget, and the rest of 'em claim it belongs to all of them as partners. How about it?"

Two men sprang to their feet and began to talk.

"You set down!" Semple ordered them. "You ain't got nothing to do with decidin' this. We'll
let you know what to do. If the facts ain't right, as I stated 'em, say so; but we don't want
no theories out of you. Set down! I say."

They subsided, and a silence fell which no one seemed inclined to break.

"Well," said Semple impatiently, "come on! Speak up! Whar's all this assorted lot of theories
I been hearing in the say-loons ever since that nugget was turned up?"

A man with the most extraordinarily ragged garments got to his feet and began to speak in a
pleasant and cultivated voice.

"I have no solution to offer this company," said he, "but I am, or was, a New York lawyer;
and if my knowledge of partnerships will help any, this is the New York law." He sketched briefly
the New York rulings on partnerships, and sat down.

"Much obliged, I'm sure," said Semple cordially. "We're glad to know how they've figgered it
out down thar. Only trouble, as far as I see, is that they ain't usually findin' many nuggets
down that neck of the woods; so they ain't precisely fitted the case. Anybody know anything
nearer to home?"

"I panned in Shirttail Bar last two months," blurted a hoarse and embarrassed individual, without
rising, "and down thar they had a reg'lation that airy nugget that weighs over a half ounce
that is found before the dirt is thrown in the cradle belongs to the man that finds it, and
not to the company. Of course this here is a pan, and not a cradle."

"That's more like business. Anybody know if anywhar they do it the other way around?"

Apparently nobody did.

"Anybody got any idees as to why we shouldn't follow Shirttail in this matter? Dog-gone you!
Set down! You ain't got nothin' to say here."

The man appealed to the crowd.

"Ain't I got a right to be heard in my own case?" he demanded.

"This ain't your case," persisted John Semple stoutly; "it's decidin' what the policy of this
camp is goin' to be regardin' nuggets. Your dog-gone case is mighty unimportant and you're
a prejudiced party. And if you don't set down, I'll come down there and argue with you! If
none of you other fellows has anything to say, we'll vote on it."

We then and there decided, almost unanimously, to follow Shirttail.

"Now," resumed Semple, after this matter had been disposed of, "there's a bunch of these yere
keskydees around throwin' assorted duckfits all this morning; and as near as I can make out
they say somebody's jumped their claim or their camp, or something. Jim, supposin' you and
your tin star saunter down and eject these jumpers."

A very tall, quiet, slow moving man arose, aimed his tobacco juice at a small tree, drawled
out the words, "All right, Jedge," and departed, trailed by a half dozen jabbering keskydees,
to whom he paid not the slightest attention.

"Now," said Semple, "we got a couple of Greasers yere caught stealin'. Buck Barry and Missouri
Jones caught them at it, so there ain't much use hearin' witnesses as to the fact. Question
is: what do we want to do with them?"

"What did they steal?" demanded a voice.

"They just nat'rally didn't steal nothin'," said a heavy built, square-jawed, clean-shaven
man whom I guessed to be Buck Barry. "Not while I was around."

"Yes," persisted the other, "but what was they after."

"Oh, an extry pair of boots, and a shirt, and some tobacco, et cetery," replied Buck Barry
contemptuously.

"Let's see them," shouted several voices.

After a moment's delay two ragged and furtive Mexicans were dragged before the assembly. A
contemplative silence ensued. Then an elderly man with a square gray beard spoke up.

"Well," said he deliberately, "airy man so low down and shif'less and miserable as to go to
stealin' boots and shirts and tobacco in this camp is shore outside my corral. He sure must
be a miserable person. Why'n hell didn't Buck and Missou give him a few lifts with the toes
of their boots, and not come botherin' us with them?"

Both Barry and Jones started to reply, but Semple cut them short.

"They was going to do just that," he announced, "but I persuaded them to bring this matter
up before this meetin', because we got to begin to take some measures to stop this kind of
a nuisance. There's a lot of undesirables driftin' into this camp lately. You boys all recall
how last fall we kep' our dust under our bunks or most anywhere, and felt perfectly safe about
it; but that ain't now. A man has to carry his dust right with him. Now, if we can't leave
our tents feeling our goods is safe, what do you expect to do about it? We got to throw the
fear of God into the black hearts of these hounds."

At this juncture Jim, the sheriff, returned and leaned nonchalantly against a tree, chewing
a straw.

Accepting the point of view advanced by the chair, the miners decided that the two thieves
should be whipped and banished from camp. A strong feeling prevailed that any man who, in this
age of plenty, would descend to petty thieving, was a poor, miserable creature to be pitied.
Some charitably inclined individual actually took up a small collection which was presented
to the thieves after they had received their punishment.

"And now, vamos, git!" advised Semple. "And spread the glad tidings. We'll do the same by any
more of you. Well, Jim?" he inquired of the sheriff.

Jim shifted his straw from the right corner of his mouth to the left.

"That outfit don't eject worth a cuss," said he laconically.

"How many of them is there?" asked Semple.

"Two--and a shotgun," stated Jim.

"I reckon we'll eject them if we say 'eject'!" cried some one truculently; and several others
growled assent.

Jim cast a humorous eye in that direction.

"Oh, I reckon I'm ekal to the job," said he, "and if you say 'eject' again, why out they go.
Only when I looked that outfit over, and saw they was only two of them and six of these jabbering
keskydees, why, I jest nat'rally wondered whether it was by and according to the peace and
dignity of this camp to mix up in that kind of a muss. I should think they ought to be capable
of doin' their own ejecting."

A discussion arose on this point. The sentiment seemed unanimous that the Frenchmen ought to
have been able to protect themselves, but was divided on the opinion as to how far the camp
was now committed to action.

"They'll think they've bluffed us out, if we drop her now," argued one side.

"It ought not to be the policy of this camp to mix up with private quarrels," argued the other.

John Semple decided the question.

"It looks like we're in the hole," he admitted, "and have got to do something. Now, I tell
you what I'm going to do: I'm going to have Jim here give these keskydees blank warrants that
they can serve themselves, and to suit themselves."

This ingenious solution was very highly commended.

"Unless somebody else has something to bring up, I guess that's about all," announced Semple.

"No inquests?" some one asked.

"Nary an inquest. This camp is gettin' healthy. Adjourned!" And the meeting was brought to
a formal conclusion by a tap of the pistol on the empty barrel.

CHAPTER XIX

SUNDAY AT HANGMAN'S GULCH

It was now about four o'clock. The crowd dispersed slowly in different directions, and to its
different occupations and amusements. We wandered about, all eyes and ears. As yet we had not
many acquaintances, and could not enter into the intimate bantering life of the old-timers.
There was enough to interest us, however. A good many were beginning to show the drink. After
a long period of hard labour even the most respectable of the miners would have at times strange
reactions. That is another tale, however; and on this Sunday the drinking was productive only
of considerable noise and boasting. Two old codgers, head to head, were bragging laboriously
of their prowess as cooks. A small but interested group egged them on.

"Flapjacks?" enunciated one laboriously; "flapjacks? Why, my fren', you don't know nothin'
about flapjacks. I grant you," said he, laying one hand on the other's arm, "I grant ye that
maybe, maybe, mind you, you may know about mixin' flapjacks, and even about cookin' flapjacks.
But wha' do you know about flippin' flapjacks?" He removed his hand from the other's arm. "Nawthin!"
said he. "Now I am an exper'; a real exper'! When I want to flip a flapjack I just whirl her
up through the chimney and catch her by holdin' the frying pan out'n the window!"

I found at another point a slender, beardless young chap, with bright black eyes, and hectic
cheeks, engaged in sketching one of the miners who posed before him. His touch was swift and
sure, and his faculty at catching a likeness remarkable. The sketch was completed and paid
for in ten minutes; and he was immediately besieged by offers from men who wanted pictures
of themselves or their camps. He told me, between strokes of the pencil, that he found this
sort of thing more remunerative than the mining for which he had come to the country, as he
could not stand the necessary hard work. Paper cost him two dollars and a half a sheet; but
that was about all his expense. Alongside the street a very red-faced, bulbous-nosed and ancient
ruin with a patriarchal white beard was preparing to give phrenological readings. I had seen
him earlier in the day, and had been amused at his impressive glib patter. Now, however, he
had become foolishly drunk. He mounted the same boxes that had served as the executive desk,
and invited custom. After a moment's hesitation a burly, red-faced miner shouldered his way
through the group and sat down on the edge of the boxes.

In the earlier and soberer part of the afternoon the phrenologist had skilfully steered his
way by the safe stars of flattery. Now, as he ran his hands uncertainly through the miner's
thick hair, a look of mystification crept into his bleary eyes. He felt again more carefully.

"Most 'xtraor'nary!" he muttered. "Fren's," said he, still feeling at the man's head, "this
person has the most extraor'nary bump of 'quisitiveness. Never felt one like it, 'xcept on
th' cranium of a very celebrated thief an' robber. His bump of benev'lence 's a reg'lar hole.
Bump of truthfulness don' somehow seem to be there at all. Bump of cowardice is 's big 's an
egg. This man, fren's," said he, dropping the victim's head and advancing impressively, "is
a very dangerous character. Look out for 'm. He's a liar, an' a thief, an' a coward, an' a----"

"Well, you old son of a gun!" howled the miner, rising to his feet.

He seized the aged phrenologist, and flung him bodily straight through the sides of a large
tent, and immediately dove after him in pursuit. There came from that tent a series of crashes,
howls of rage and joy, the sounds of violent scuffling, and then there burst out through the
doorway the thoroughly sobered phrenologist, his white beard streaming over one shoulder, his
pop eyes bulging out, his bulbous nose quite purple, pursued by the angry miner and a score
of the overjoyed populace interrupted in their gambling. Everybody but the two principals was
gasping with laughter. It looked as though the miner might do his victim a serious injury,
so I caught the pursuer, around the shoulders and held him fast. He struggled violently, but
was no match for my bulk, and I restrained him until he had cooled down somewhat, and had ceased
trying to bite and kick me. Then all at once he laughed, and I released him. Of the phrenologist
nothing remained but a thin cloud of dust hanging in the still air.

Yank and I then thought of going back to camp, and began to look around after Johnny, who had
disappeared, when McNally rolled up, inviting us to sup with him.

"You don't want to go home yet," he advised us. "Evening's the time to have fun. Never mind
your friend; he's all right. Now you realize the disadvantage of living way off where you do.
My hang-out is just down the street. Let's have a drink."

We accepted both his invitations. Then, after the supper, pipes alight, we sauntered down the
street, a vast leisure expanding our horizons. At the street corner stood a tall, poetic-looking
man, with dreamer's eyes, a violin clasped under his chin. He was looking straight past us
all out into the dusk of the piney mountains beyond, his soul in the music he was producing.
They were simple melodies, full of sentiment, and he played as though he loved them. Within
the sound of his bow a dead silence reigned. Men stood with eyes cast down, their faces sobered,
their eyes adream. One burly, reckless, red-faced individual, who had been bullying it up and
down the street, broke into a sob which he violently suppressed, and then looked about fiercely,
as though challenging any one to have heard. The player finished, tucked his violin and bow
under his arm, and turned away. For a moment the crowd remained motionless, then slowly dispersed.
This was John Kelly, a famous wandering minstrel of the camps, a strange, shy, poetic man,
who never lacked for dust nor for friends, and who apparently sought for neither.

Under the softening influence of the music the crowd led a better life for about ten minutes.

We entered the gambling rooms, of which there were two, and had a drink of what McNally called
"42 calibre whiskey" at the bar of each. In one of them we found Johnny, rather flushed, bucking
a faro bank. Yank suggested that he join us, but he shook his head impatiently, and we moved
on. In a tremendous tent made by joining three or four ordinary tents together, a very lively
fiddle and concertina were in full blast. We entered and were pounced upon by a boisterous
group of laughing men, seized by the shoulders, whirled about, and examined from behind.

"Two gentlemen and a lady!" roared out one of them. "Gentlemen on that side; ladies on this.
See-lect your pardners for the waltz!"

There was a great rushing to and fro in preparation. Men bowed to each other with burlesque
dancing school formality, offered arms, or accepted them with bearlike coyness. We stood for
a moment rather bewildered, not knowing precisely what to do.

"You belong over that side," McNally instructed us. "I go over here; I'm a 'lady.'"

"Why?" I asked.

"Ladies," explained McNally, "are those who have patches on the seats of their pants."

As in most social gatherings, we saw that here too the fair sex were in the majority.

Everybody danced very vigorously, with a tremendous amount of stamping. It seemed a strenuous
occupation after a week of hard work, and yet it was great fun. Yank pirouetted and balanced
and "sasshayed" and tom-fooled in a manner wonderful to behold. We ended flushed and uproarious;
and all trooped to the bar, which, it seemed, was the real reason for the existence of this
dance hall.

The crowd was rough and good natured, full of high spirits, and inclined to practical jokes
of a pretty stiff character. Of course there was the inevitable bully, swaggering fiercely
and truculently back and forth, his belt full of weapons. Nobody took him very seriously; but,
on the other hand, everybody seemed to take mighty good care not to run definitely counter
to him. In the course of his wanderings he came to our end of the bar, and jostled McNally
aside. McNally was at the moment lighting his pipe, so that in his one hand he held a burning
match and in the other a glass of whiskey. Without the slightest hurry or excitement, his blue
eyes twinkling as humorously as ever, McNally dumped the whiskey over the bully's shock head
with his left hand and touched the match to it with his right. The alcohol sizzled up in a
momentary blue flame, without damage save for a very singed head of hair.

"Man on fire! Man on fire!" yelled McNally. "Put him out!"

The miners rose to the occasion joyously, and "put him out" in the most literal fashion; so
that no more was seen of that bully.

About ten o'clock we were getting tired; and probably the reaction from the "42 calibre whiskey"
was making us drowsy. We hunted up Johnny, still at his faro game; but he positively and impatiently
declined to accompany us. He said he was ahead--or behind--I forget which. I notice both conditions
have the same effect of keeping a man from quitting. We therefore left him, and wandered home
through the soft night, wherein were twinkling stars, gentle breezes, little voices, and the
silhouettes of great trees.

CHAPTER XX

THE GOLD WASHERS

Johnny did not return at all that night, but showed up next morning at the diggings, looking
blear-eyed and sleepy. He told us he had slept with a friend, and replied rather curtly that
he was a "little behind the game." I believe myself that he was cleaned out; but that was none
of our business. Every night we divided the dust into five parts. Don Gaspar and Vasquez got
two of these. The remainder we again divided into four. I took charge of Talbot's share. We
carried the dust always with us; for the camp was no longer safe from thieves.

In order to effect this division we had to have some sort of scales. I went up to the single
store to see what I could do. The storekeeper was a drawling, slow, down-east Yankee, perpetually
chewing a long sliver or straw, talking exclusively through his nose, keen for a bargain, grasping
of the last cent in a trade, and yet singularly interesting and agreeable. His sense of dry
humour had a good deal to do with this. He had no gold scales to lend or to hire, but he had
some to sell. The price was fifteen dollars for an ordinary pair of balances worth not over
a dollar and a half.

"And you'll find that cheap, if the miners keep coming in as fast as they do," said he. "In
two weeks they'll be worth fifty."

We bought them, and obtained from them great satisfaction. Vasquez used to weigh his gold at
night, and again in the morning, in hopes, I suppose, that it had bred overnight.

Certainly the storekeeper's statement as to the influx of miners was justified. They came every
day, in droves. We began to feel quite like old-timers, and looked with infinite scorn on these
greenhorns. They were worse than we had been; for I have seen them trying to work in the moonlight!
The diggings were actually getting crowded.

It was no longer feasible to dig wherever we pleased to do so. We held many miners' meetings,
adopting regulations. A claim was to be fifteen feet square; work must begin on it within ten
days; and so forth. Each of the five members of our party staked out two claims each, on which
we worked in turn. All the old-timers respected these regulations, but some of the newcomers
seemed inclined to dispute them; so that many meetings and much wrangling ensued. The truth
of the matter was that none of us had the slightest permanent interest in the place. We intended
merely to make our piles and to decamp. Each was for himself. Therefore there was no solidarity.
We regulated only when we were actually forced to it; so that with what we called "private
affairs" we declined to interfere. A man could commit any crime in the decalogue if so it pleased
him. His victims must protect themselves. Such things as horse stealing, grand larceny, claim
jumping, and mining regulations we dealt with; but other things were not our affair. We were
too busy, and too slightly interested in what little public welfare a temporary mining camp
might have. Even when, in a few cases, turbulence resulted in shooting, we rarely punished;
although, strangely enough, our innate Anglo-Saxon feeling for the formality of government
always resulted in a Sunday "inquest." We deliberated solemnly. The verdict was almost invariably
"justifiable self-defence," which was probably near enough, for most of these killings were
the result of quarrels. Murders for the purpose of robbery, later so frequent, were as yet
almost unknown. Twice, however, and in both instances the prisoner was one of the gamblers,
we pronounced judgment. One of these men was banished, and the other hanged. All in all a very
fair semblance of order was kept; but I cannot help now but feel that our early shirking of
responsibility--which was typical of all California--made necessary later great upheavals of
popular justice.

About this time, also, the first of the overland wagon trains began to come through. Hangman's
Gulch was not on the direct route; but some enterprising individual had found our trail fairly
practicable for wagons and ten miles shorter than the regular road. After that many followed,
and soon we had a well-cleared road. They showed plainly the hardships of a long journey, for
the majority of them were thin, sick looking and discouraged. Few of them stopped at the diggings,
although most had come west in hopes of gold, but pushed on down to the pastures of the Sacramento.
They were about worn out and needed to recuperate before beginning anything new. Some were
out of provisions and practically starved. The Yankee storekeeper sold food at terrible rates.
I remember that quinine--a drug much in demand--cost a dollar a grain! We used to look up from
our diggings at the procession of these sad-faced, lean men walking by their emaciated cattle,
and the women peering from the wagons, and be very thankful that we had decided against the
much-touted overland route.

One day, however, an outfit went through of quite a different character. We were apprised of
its approach by a hunter named Bagsby. He loped down the trail to the river level very much
in a hurry.

"Boys!" he shouted, "quit work! Come see what's coming down the trail!" with which he charged
back again up the hill.

His great excitement impressed us, for Bagsby, like most of the old-time Rocky Mountain men,
was not ordinarily what one would call an emotional individual. Therefore we dropped our tools
and surged up the hill as fast as we could go. I think we suspected Indians.

A train of three wagons drawn by strong oxen was lurching slowly down the road. It differed
little from others of its kind, save that the cattle were in better shape and the men walking
alongside, of the tall, competent backwoodsman type, seemed well and hearty. But perhaps a
hundred yards ahead of the leading wagon came a horse--the only horse in the outfit--and on
it, riding side-saddle, was a girl. She was a very pretty, red-cheeked girl, and she must have
stopped within a half mile or so of the camp in order to get herself up for this impressive
entrance. Her dress was of blue calico with a white yoke and heavy flounces or panniers; around
her neck was a black velvet ribbon; on her head was a big leghorn hat with red roses. She rode
through the town, her head high, like a princess; and we all cheered her like mad. Not once
did she look at us; but I could see her bosom heaving with excitement beneath her calico, and
her nostrils wide. She was a remarkably pretty girl; and this was certainly the moment of her
triumph.

We fell into sanity as respects our hours of work and the way we went at it. Often we took
as much as an hour and a half off at noon; or quit work early in the day. Then it was pleasant
to sit with other miners under the trees or in the shade by the stream swapping yarns, doing
our mending or washing, and generally getting acquainted. As each man's product was his own,
no one cared how much or how little the others worked. Simply when he quit, his share ceased.
This does not mean that we shirked our work, however; we merely grew to be a little sensible.

Some of our discussions were amusing, and several of them most illuminating. Thus, one day,
John Semple summed up a long talk in which the conversation had swung wildly among the ideas
of what each would do when he had dug "enough" gold. That had led us to consider what amount
we thought would be "enough" for each of us. John settled it.

"Enough," said he, "is always a little more than a man has."

The political situation was fruitful of much idle discussion also. California had not been
formally placed on any footing whatever by the United States Congress. Whatever any community
did in the way of legislation or regulation was extra-legal and subject to ratification. I
have heard grave discussions as to whether even murder could be considered a crime, since in
this no-man's land there was no real law forbidding it!

A good many Chinese drifted in about this time, and established a camp of their own a short
distance downstream. We took some pride in them as curiosities, with their queer, thatchlike
hats, their loose blue clothing, their pigtails wound tight around their heads, and their queer
yellow faces. They were an unobtrusive people, scratching away patiently, though spasmodically,
on the surface of the ground. We sometimes strolled down to see them. They were very hospitable,
and pleased at the interest they excited.

We made from fourteen to seventeen ounces of gold dust a day for some weeks, working our two
cradles something like eight hours a day. With gold at the then current rate of fourteen dollars
an ounce this was a good return, and we were quite happy. Besides, we were always hoping for
a big strike. One day, as I was in the very act of turning my shovelful of dirt into the cradle,
my eye caught a dull gleam. I instantly deflected the motion to dump the dirt on the stones
alongside, fished about, and dug out a nugget that weighed three and three-quarter ounces.
This was by far the largest single nugget found in these diggings--for most of the gold here
came in flakes--and it attracted much attention. It belonged to me, individually, because I
had not yet dumped it into the cradle.

About this time we had to come to some sort of a decision, for our provisions were about exhausted.
We had no desire to replenish our stock from that of the local storekeeper. We were doing pretty
well in the diggings, but we had also fairly healthy appetites, and I am convinced that at
the prices that man charged we should have no more than kept even. Williams, the storekeeper,
was levying double profits, one from us, and one from the overland immigrants. Don Gaspar proposed
we send out Vasquez with all the horses to restock at Sutter's Fort. We were a trifle doubtful
as to whether Vasquez would ever come back, but Don Gaspar seemed to have confidence in his
man. Finally, though a little doubtfully, we came to the plan. Don Gaspar sent out also to
McClellan for safekeeping his accumulations of gold dust; but we did not go quite that far.
In view of probable high prices we entrusted him with eighteen ounces for the purchase of goods.

While he was away we came to another decision. It had been for some weeks preparing. The diggings
were becoming overcrowded. Almost every foot of the bar was occupied, and more men were coming
in every day. No longer could the newcomer be sure of his colour the afternoon of his arrival;
but was forced to prospect here and there up and down the river until he found a patch of the
pay dirt. Most trusted simply to luck, but some had systems on which they worked. I have seen
divining rods used. The believers in chance seemed to do as well as any one else.

But, also, our own yield was decreasing. The last week we had gained only nineteen ounces all
told. This might be merely a lean bit of misfortune, or it might mean that we had taken the
best from our ten claims. Since the human mind is prone to changes, we inclined to the latter
theory. We were getting restless. No miner ever came to California who did not believe firmly
that he would have done much better had he come out one voyage earlier; and no miner ever found
diggings so rich that he had not a sneaking suspicion that he could do even better "a little
farther on."

Our restlessness was further increased by the fact that we were now seeing a good deal of Sam
Bagsby, the hunter. He and Yank had found much in common, and forgathered of evenings before
our campfire.

Bagsby was a man of over fifty, tall and straight as a youngster, with a short white beard,
a gray eye, and hard, tanned flesh. He was a typical Rocky Mountain man, wearing even in the
hottest weather his fur cap with the tail hanging behind, his deerskin moccasins, and his fringed
buckskin hunting shirt. Mining possessed no interest for him whatever. He was by profession
a trapper, and he had crossed the plains a half-dozen times.

"No mining for me!" he stated emphatically. "I paddled around after the stuff for a while,
till my hands swelled up like p'ison, and my back creaked like a frozen pine tree in the wind.
Then I quit, and I stayed quit. I'm a hunter; and I'm makin' a good livin', because I ain't
very particular on how I live."

He and Yank smoked interminable pipes, and swapped yarns. Johnny and I liked nothing better
than to keep quiet and listen to them. Bagsby had come out with Captain Sutter; and told of
that doughty soldier's early skirmishes with the Indians. His tales of the mountains, the plains,
and the game and Indians were so much romance to us; and we both wished heartily that fate
could have allowed us a chance at such adventures.

"But why don't you fellows branch out?" Bagsby always ended. "What do you want to stick here
for like a lot of groundhogs? There's rivers back in the hills a heap better than this one,
and nobody thar. You'd have the place plumb to yoreselves. Git in where the mountains is really
mountainous."

Then he would detail at length and slowly his account of the great mountains, deep cañons,
the shadows of forests, ridges high up above the world, and gorges far within the bowels of
the earth through which dashed white torrents. We gathered and pieced together ideas of great
ice and snow mountains, and sun-warmed bars below them, and bears and deer, and a high clear
air breathing through a vast, beautiful and solitary wilderness. The picture itself was enough
to set bounding the pulses of any young man, with a drop of adventure in his veins. But also
Bagsby was convinced that there we should find richer diggings than any yet discovered.

"It stands to reason," he argued, "that the farther up you git, the more gold there is. All
this loose stuff yere is just what washed down from the main supply. If you boys reely wants
rich diggings, then you want to push up into the Porcupine River country."

But with this glowing and vivid impression we gathered another: that of a trackless wilderness,
fearful abysses down which to find a way, labyrinthine defiles, great forests. None of us knew
how to cope with these things. Yank, the best woodsman of us all, had had no experience in
mountains. None of us knew anything of Indian warfare. None of us had the least idea that we
could find Porcupine River, even if we were to be given accurate directions on how to get there.

Nevertheless the idea with us had been growing. Some of the bolder spirits among our acquaintances
used to talk it over with us at odd times--McNally, Buck Barry, and his partner, Missouri Jones.
We did not discuss it as a plan, hardly as a possibility, merely as a pleasant theme. We found,
and advanced any amount of objections--the uncertainty of finding any gold at all, the expense
of such a journey, the danger from Indians, the fact that we could find other proved diggings
much nearer, and a half hundred others. The moment one of us had advanced one of these objections
he was at once himself the most eager to demolish it. Thus we gradually worked ourselves toward
enthusiasm.

"If Sam Bagsby would join us, it might be worth trying," we came to at last.

But Sam Bagsby scouted any such idea.

"I ain't that kind of a tom-fool," said he. "If I want to paddle my hands blue I'd do it yere.
I couldn't make more'n a living anyway. I tell you I ain't got no use for yore pra'rie dog
grubbing!"

Then McNally had an inspiration.

"Will you go, Sam, if we pay you for going?" he asked.

"Sure," replied the trapper at once. "I'm a labouring man, I'll go anywhar I'm paid to go."

It came out that Bagsby's ideas of proper compensation were his supplies, fifteen dollars a
week in gold, and a drink of whiskey twice a day! In all this gold country he was the only
man I met who genuinely despised money. I really think we were hurried to our decision by this
unexpected reasonableness on his part. At any rate we decided definitely to go.

CHAPTER XXI

WE LEAVE THE DIGGINGS

There were nine of us--Bagsby, Yank, Johnny Fairfax, myself, Don Gaspar, Vasquez, McNally,
Buck Barry, and Missouri Jones. We possessed, in all, just nine horses. Yank, Vasquez, Bagsby,
and Jones drove eight of them out again to Sutter's Fort for provisions--Don Gaspar's beautiful
chestnut refused to be a pack-horse on any terms. We took the opportunity of sending our accumulations
of gold dust to Talbot for safekeeping. I do not know just how much my companions forwarded.
Of course I could compute their shares; but had no means of telling just what deductions to
allow for the delights of Hangman's Gulch. For Talbot I laid aside as his share of our entire
product of four hundred and eighty-six ounces a total of one hundred and ten ounces. This included
the half of my own share, as agreed. Roughly speaking, the value of a partnership third, after
Don Gaspar's portion had been deducted, was a trifle over a thousand dollars for six weeks'
work. There seemed to us also an excellent chance to realize something on the two cradles.
I went about among the miners, and without trouble got bids for a hundred dollars each. Johnny
was by no means satisfied with this. He insisted that late in the afternoon we drag the formidable
engines up the trail to the town, where he deposited them in the middle of the street. There
he proceeded to auction them; attracting the crowd by the simple expedient of firing his Colt's
revolver. The bidding was sluggish at first, but Johnny's facetious oratory warmed it. The
first cradle was knocked down at one hundred and sixty dollars. The second was about to go
for approximately the same amount, when Johnny held up his hand.

"Gentlemen," said he impressively, "I do not think you quite realize that for what you are
bidding. This is no ordinary cradle, like the other. This is the very identical warranted genuine
cradle into which that enormous lump of gold, weighing three and three-quarter ounces--the
finest nugget ever unearthed at Hangman's Gulch--was about to be shovelled by that largest
and most enormous lump of a lad, the gentleman at my right, when seized upon and claimed as
private property in accordance with the laws of these diggings. This is the very identical
historical cradle! Now, how much am I bid!"

The crowd laughed--but it bid! We got two hundred and forty dollars for it.

Our purveyors returned the second day after. They reported prices very high at Sutter's Fort,
and a great congestion of people there; both of those ascending the river from San Francisco,
and of overlanders. Prices had consequently gone up. Indeed, so high were all provisions that
our hard-headed partners had contented themselves with buying only some coffee, dried beef,
and flour. They had purchased also a further supply of powder and balls, and a rifle apiece
for such of us as already had none. The weapons were very expensive; and we found that our
savings had been much eaten into. We collected our effects, packed them, as many of them as
we were able, and sunk to sleep in a pleasing tingle of excitement.

Bagsby got us up long before daylight. The air was chilly, in contrast to the terrific heats
to be expected later in the day, so we hastened to finish our packing, and at dawn were off.

Bagsby struck immediately away from the main road toward the north. The country we traversed
was one of wide, woody bottoms separated by rocky hills. The trapper proved to be an excellent
guide. Seemingly by a sort of instinct he was able to judge where a way would prove practicable
for our animals down into or up out of the numerous cañons and ravines. It was borne in on
me very forcibly how much hampered we should have been by our inexperience had we tried it
alone. The country mounted gradually. From some of the higher points we could see out over
the lowlands lost in a brown heat-haze. Deer were numerous, and a species of hare, and the
helmeted quail. The sun was very hot; but the air was curiously streaked with coolness and
with a fierce dry heat as though from an opened furnace door. All the grass was brown and crisp.
Darker and more abrupt mountains showed themselves in the distance, with an occasional peak
of white and glittering snow.

Until about three o'clock we journeyed through a complete solitude. Then we came upon some
men digging in a dry wash. They had piled up a great heap of dirt from a hole. We stopped and
talked to them; and discovered that they were working what they called "dry diggings." The
pay dirt they excavated from wherever they found it piled it in a convenient place, and there
left it until the rains should permit its washing. They claimed their dirt would prove to be
very rich; but I thought myself that they were labouring in great faith. Also we learned what
Bagsby had known right along, but which he had not bothered to tell us; that we were now about
to cross the main Overland Trail.

We stopped that night near the road, and at a wayside inn or road house of logs kept by a most
interesting man. He served us an excellent meal, including real eggs, and afterward joined
us around the fire. He was an Italian, short, strongly built, with close curly hair, a rollicking,
good-natured face, and with tiny gold rings in his ears. Johnny and he did most of the talking,
while we listened. No part of the civilized world seemed to have been unvisited by this pair.
Johnny mentioned Paris, our host added an intimate detail as to some little street; London
appeared to be known to them from one end to the other; Berlin, Edinburgh, St. Petersburg even;
and a host of other little fellows whose names I never knew before and cannot remember now.
They swapped reminiscences of the streets; the restaurants, and the waiters and proprietors
thereof; the alleys and by-ways, the parks and little places. I knew, in a general way, that
Johnny had done the grand tour; but the Italian with his gold earrings and his strong, brown,
good-humoured peasant face puzzled me completely. How came he to be so travelled? so intimately
travelled? He was no sailor; that I soon determined.

The two of them became thoroughly interested; but after a time the native courtesy of the Italian
asserted itself. He evidently thought we might feel left out of it; though I think the others
were, like myself, quite fascinated.

"You lika music?" he smiled at us engagingly. "I getta my Italian fiddle? No?"

He arose at our eager assent, pushed aside a blanket that screened off one end of the log cabin,
and produced his "Italian fiddle"--a hand-organ!

At once the solution of the wide wandering among the many cities, the intimate knowledge of
streets and of public places burst upon my comprehension. I could see our host looking upward,
his strong white teeth flashing in an ingratiating fascinating smile, his right arm revolving
with the crank of his organ, his little brown monkey with the red coat and the anxious face
clambering----

Next morning we crossed the Overland Trail, and plunged into a new country of pines, of high
hills, of deep cañons, and bold, rocky ridges. The open spaces we had left behind, and the
great heats. Water flowed in almost every ravine, and along its courses grew green grass and
wild flowers. Every little while we would come upon openings in the forest, clear meadows spangled
with blossoms; or occasionally we would skirt high bald knobs of rock around which was stiff
brush. For some miles we could journey at ease through clear woods, then would encounter a
gash in the earth into which, at some expense of trial, we would have to find a way. At first
every stream bed was dotted with the red shirts of miners. They became fewer as we advanced,
until finally the last pair had been left behind. We camped that night at the edge of one of
the meadows, beneath pine trees. The air turned very chilly. We built ourselves a fire of dried
branches from the trees. In the meadow the horses cropped eagerly at the lush green feed, their
bells tinkling pleasantly.

Nothing more remote could be imagined. Nevertheless Bagsby, Don Gaspar, and Vasquez were not
satisfied. They consulted at length and apart; then Bagsby announced that sentries must stand
watches. We grumbled at this, but Bagsby was firm, and as we had agreed to obey his commands
we did so now. Don Gaspar explained to us later that the Mexican thieves would trail a party
like ours for days, awaiting the chance to make off with the horses. Bagsby also chose the
sentinels, selecting himself, Yank, Vasquez, and Missouri Jones. Once wrapped in my warm blanket
I found myself selfishly glad that my experience had not been considered worth trusting.

The third day we occupied in surmounting a tremendous ridge of mountains. We climbed for hours,
working our way up by zigzag and long slants through the pines, the rocky outcrops, the ledges,
and the stiff brush that made up the slope. It was hard work; and it seemed to have no end.
We arrived at last on a knife-edge summit. Here the trees were fewer. We looked abroad over
the country we had traversed, and that which lay before us--a succession of dark, dim, undulating
ridges with cañons and valleys between, slanting from the great ranges at the right to brown
rolling hills and the heat-covered, half-guessed plains. Immediately below us, very far down,
was a toy-like valley, with low hills, and flat places, and groves of elfin trees, and a twisting
bottle green river with white rapids.

"Thar's the Porcupine," Bagsby told us briefly.

We took a look, then plunged into the tangles and difficulties of the descent. Just at sundown,
our knees bending under us, we came off that terrific slant to a grateful wide flat, grown
with scattered oaks, and covered with fine brown grass. A little spring stream wandered through
the meadow toward the river on the other side of the valley.

We camped right there, dumping the packs from the horses almost anyhow. After a hearty meal,
we rolled ourselves immediately into our blankets and fell into a grateful sleep to the tune
of the distant river murmuring over the shingle.

CHAPTER XXII

THE STRIKE

We awoke next morning to a bright day. The helmeted quail were calling; the bees were just
beginning a sun-warmed hum among the bushes; a languorous warmth hung in the air, and a Sunday
stillness. It was as though we awakened to a new world, untrodden by men; which was, indeed,
a good deal the case.

While we ate breakfast we discussed our plans. The first necessity, of course, was to find
out about gold. To that end we agreed to separate for the day, prospecting far and wide. Bagsby
kept camp, and an eye on the horses. He displayed little interest in the gold proposition;
but insisted strongly that we should carry both our rifles and revolvers.

It would be difficult to describe the thrill of anticipation with which I set off up the valley.
The place was so new, so untouched, so absolutely unknown. The high ridges on either side frowned
down austerely on the little meadows that smiled back quite unabashed. As I crossed the brown
dry meadow toward the river a covey of quail whirred away before me, lit, and paced off at
a great rate. Two big grouse roared from a thicket.

The river was a beautiful, clear stream, with green wavery water whirling darkly in pools,
or breaking white among the stones. As my shadow fell upon it, I caught a glimpse of a big
trout scurrying into the darkness beneath a boulder. Picking my way among the loose stones
I selected a likely place on the bar and struck home my pick.

I have since repeated the sensations of that day--on a smaller scale of course--in whipping
untried trout waters; same early excitement and enthusiasm, same eager sustained persistence
in face of failure, same incredulous slowing down, same ultimate discouragement, disbelief
and disgust. All that day I shovelled and panned. The early morning freshness soon dissipated.
Between the high mountain walls the heat reflected. All the quail stood beneath the shade of
bushes, their beaks half open as though panting. The birds that had sung so sweetly in the
early morning had somewhere sought repose. I could occasionally catch glimpses of our horses
dozing under trees. Even the chirping insects were still. As far as I could make out I was
the only living thing foolish enough to stay abroad and awake in that suffocating heat. The
sweat dripped from me in streams; my eyes ached from the glare of the sun on the rocks and
the bleached grasses. Toward the close of the afternoon I confessed sneakingly to myself that
I was just a little glad I had found no gold and that I hoped the others had been equally unfortunate.
The thought of working day after day in that furnace heat was too much for me.

My hopes were fulfilled. All came in that night tired, hot, dirty, and discouraged. Not one
of the eight of us had raised a sign of colour.

"Well," said Bagsby philosophically, "that's all right. We've just got to go higher. To-morrow
we'll move upstream."

Accordingly next day we turned at right angles to our former route and followed up the bed
of the cañon ten or twelve miles toward the distant main ranges. It was, in general, rather
hard scrabbling for the horses, though we footmen did well enough. Sometimes we crossed wide
flats, resembling the one we had just left; again, where the cañon narrowed, we had actually
to stumble in the rocks of the stream bed. Twice we forded, and twice we had to make great
climbs up and down again in order to get by points that came boldly down to the river. It was
curious to see the nature of the country change. The pines on the mountains to our right and
left seemed to push down nearer to our level; the grass turned green; the stream narrowed and
became swifter; the sky seemed to turn bluer; and from the ranges breathed a cool, refreshing wind.

About four o'clock we camped. The flat was green; little clumps of cedar pushed out across
it; the oaks had given place to cottonwoods; we had now to make acquaintance with new birds.
But what particularly interested us was the fact that at this point the high cañon walls at
either side broke into rounder hills that opened out widely, and that from among them descended
many ravines, barrancas, and dry washes.

The following morning we went prospecting again. My instructions were for the dry washes in
the sides of the hills. Accordingly I scrambled up among the boulders in the nearest V-shaped
ravine. I had hardly to look at all. Behind a large boulder lay a little cuplike depression
of stones in which evidently had stood a recently evaporated pool of water, and which, in consequence,
was free from the usual dusty rubble. In the interstices between the stones my eye caught a
dull glitter. I fell on my knees, dug about with the point of my bowie knife, and so unearthed
small nuggets aggregating probably a half ounce in weight.

Although mightily tempted to stay for more, I minded our agreement to report promptly the first
discovery, and started back to camp. Why I did not come a header in that fearful, boulder-strewn
wash I cannot tell you. Certainly I took no care of my going, but leaped recklessly from rock
to rock like a goat. When I reached the flat, I ran, whooping like an Indian. From the river
I could see Johnny and Buck Barry running, too, and had sense enough to laugh as it occurred
to me they must think us attacked by Indians. Far down the stream I could just make out figures
I knew to be Yank and McNally. They too seemed to be coming to camp, though I could not imagine
that my shouts had carried so far.

I burst in on Bagsby, who was smoking his pipe and leisurely washing the breakfast dishes,
with a whoop, lifted him bodily by the shoulders, whirled him around in a clumsy dance. He
aimed a swipe at me with the wet dish cloth that caught me across the eyes.

"You tarnation young grizzly b'ar!" said he.

I wiped the water from my eyes. Johnny and Buck Barry ran up. Somehow they did not seem to
be anticipating an Indian attack after all. Johnny ran up to thump me on the back.

"Isn't it great!" he cried. "Right off the reel! First pop! Bagsby, old sport, you're a wonder!"
He started for Bagsby, who promptly rushed for his long rifle.

"I'm going to kill the first lunatic I see," he announced.

Johnny laughed excitedly, and turned back to thump me again.

"How did you guess what it was?" I asked.

"Didn't. Just blundered on it."

"What!" I yelled. "Have you struck it, too?"

"First shovel," said Johnny. "But you don't mean----"

I thrust my three nuggets under his eyes.

"Say," broke in Buck Barry, "if you fellows know where the whiskey is, hide it, and hide it
quick. If I see it, I'll get drunk!"

Yank and McNally at this moment strolled from around the bushes. We all burst out on them.

"See your fool nuggets and 'colour,' and raise you this," drawled Yank, and he hauled from
his pocket the very largest chunk of virgin gold it has ever been my good fortune to behold.
It was irregular in shape, pitted and scored, shaped a good deal like an egg, and nearly its
size. One pound and a tiny fraction that great nugget balanced--when we got around to weighing
it. And then to crown the glorious day which the gods were brimming for us, came Don Gaspar
and Vasquez, trailed by that long and saturnine individual, Missouri Jones. The Spaniards were
outwardly calm, but their eyes snapped. As soon as they saw us they waved their hats.

"Ah! also you have found the gold!" cried Don Gaspar, sensing immediately the significance
of our presence. "We, too. It is of good colour; there above by the bend." His eye widened
as he saw what Yank held. "Madre de dios!" he murmured.

McNally, who had said and done nothing, suddenly uttered a resounding whoop and stood on his
hands. Missouri Jones, taking aim, spat carefully into the centre of the fire, missing the
dishpan by a calculated and accurate inch.

"The country is just lousy with gold," he pronounced.

Then we blew up. We hugged each other, we pounded each other's backs, we emulated McNally's
wild Irish whoops, finally we joined hands and danced around and around the remains of the
fire, kicking up our heels absurdly. Bagsby, a leathery grin on his face, stood off one side.
He still held his long-barrelled rifle, which he presented at whoever neared him.

"I tell you, look out!" he kept saying over and over. "I'm shootin' lunatics to-day; and apparently
there's plenty game to choose from."

CHAPTER XXIII

THE CAMP ON THE PORCUPINE

We should all have liked to start right in digging, but Bagsby strenuously opposed this.

"You-all have a rich diggings yere," said he; "and you want to stay a while and git the most
there is out of them. And if you're going to do that, you've got to get a good ready. You've
got make a decent camp, and a stockade for the hosses at night; and if you want yore grub to
last you more than a month there's got to be some reg'lar hunting and fishing done."

"That'll take a week!" cried Johnny impatiently.

"Or more," agreed Bagsby with entire complacence. "You can bull at it and go to t'aring up
the scenery if you want to; but you won't last long."

Unpalatable as this advice seemed, with all the loose gold lying about, we ended by adopting
it. Indeed, we added slightly to our self-imposed tasks by determining on the construction
of cradles. Yank had figured out a scheme having to do with hollowed logs and canvas with cleats
that would obviate the need of lumber. We deputed Johnny to help him. Bagsby and Vasquez were
to hunt and fish for the general benefit, while the rest of us put up a stockade, or corral,
and erected a cabin.

I must confess the labour was pleasant. We had plenty of axes, and four of us were skilled
in their use. Personally I like nothing better than the exercise of swinging a keen blade,
the feeling of skillful accuracy and of nicely adjusted effort. We felled dozens, hundreds,
of tall young pines eight inches to a foot in diameter, and planted them upright in a trench
to form a stockade. Then we ran up a rough sort of cabin of two rooms. Yank, somewhat hampered
by Johnny, finished his cradles, and turned in to help us. Bagsby and Vasquez brought in several
deer and an elk, and trapped many quail and hares. We fared royally, worked healthfully in
the shade of our trees, and enjoyed huge smokes and powwows around our fire of an evening.
Every night we drove the horses within the enclosure; and slept heavily.

Always in the background of consciousness lay the gold, the incredibly abundant gold. It coloured
our dreams, it gilded our labour. As we drew to the end of our construction work, I really
believe we experienced a slight, a very slight, feeling of regret that this fine flavour of
anticipation was so nearly at an end. However, I noticed that though we completed the house
at three of the afternoon, we none of us showed any disposition to wait for the morrow. We
promptly lugged one of Yank's log cradles to the border of the stream and put in two hours washing.

The results were most encouraging, for we gained in that short time nearly two ounces of flake
gold.

That evening we reviewed our situation carefully. The older heads of the party--Yank, Bagsby,
Don Gaspar, and Missouri Jones--overruled our young desire to jump into things headlong.

"If this camp is going to get on right," said Yank, "we got to make some provision for working
right. Somebody's got to be in camp all the time, that's sure--to cook some decent meals, do
the odd chores, and keep an eye on the stock." Bagsby nodded emphatically at this. "And somebody's
got to rustle game and fish. Yere's nine husky men to eat. If we leave one man in camp and
two to hunt, we have six left for gold washing. That's three to a cradle, and that's just right."

We came to that, too; and so settled into our routine. Bagsby was the only permanent office-holder
among us. He was unanimously elected the official hunter. The rest of us agreed to take turn
about at the other jobs. It was further agreed to increase our chances by utilizing the cradles
at two totally different kinds of diggings. One we located on the bar to wash out the shingle.
The other we carried to a point opposite the dry ravine in which I had found my three little
nuggets.

