RETURNING HOME

by Anthony Trollope

It is generally supposed that people who live at home,--good domestic people, who love tea
and their arm-chairs, and who keep the parlour hearth-rug ever warm,--it is generally supposed
that these are the people who value home the most, and best appreciate all the comforts of
that cherished institution.  I am inclined to doubt this.  It is, I think, to those who live
farthest away from home, to those who find the greatest difficulty in visiting home, that the
word conveys the sweetest idea.  In some distant parts of the world it may be that an Englishman
acknowledges his permanent resting place; but there are many others in which he will not call
his daily house, his home.  He would, in his own idea, desecrate the word by doing so.  His
home is across the blue waters, in the little northern island, which perhaps he may visit no
more; which he has left, at any rate, for half his life; from which circumstances, and the
necessity of living, have banished him.  His home is still in England, and when he speaks of
home his thoughts are there.

No one can understand the intensity of this feeling who has not seen or felt the absence of
interest in life which falls to the lot of many who have to eat their bread on distant soils.
We are all apt to think that a life in strange countries will be a life of excitement, of stirring
enterprise, and varied scenes;--that in abandoning the comforts of home, we shall receive in
exchange more of movement and of adventure than would come in our way in our own tame country;
and this feeling has, I am sure, sent many a young man roaming.  Take any spirited fellow of
twenty, and ask him whether he would like to go to Mexico for the next ten years!  Prudence
and his father may ultimately save him from such banishment, but he will not refuse without
a pang of regret.

Alas! it is a mistake.  Bread may be earned, and fortunes, perhaps, made in such countries;
and as it is the destiny of our race to spread itself over the wide face of the globe, it is
well that there should be something to gild and paint the outward face of that lot which so
many are called upon to choose.  But for a life of daily excitement, there is no life like
life in England; and the farther that one goes from England the more stagnant, I think, do
the waters of existence become.

But if it be so for men, it is ten times more so for women.  An Englishman, if he be at Guatemala
or Belize, must work for his bread, and that work will find him in thought and excitement.
But what of his wife?  Where will she find excitement?  By what pursuit will she repay herself
for all that she has left behind her at her mother's fireside?  She will love her husband.
Yes; that at least! If there be not that, there will be a hell, indeed.  Then she will nurse
her children, and talk of her--home.  When the time shall come that her promised return thither
is within a year or two of its accomplishment, her thoughts will all be fixed on that coming
pleasure, as are the thoughts of a young girl on her first ball for the fortnight before that
event comes off.

On the central plain of that portion of Central America which is called Costa Rica stands the
city of San Jose.  It is the capital of the Republic,--for Costa Rica is a Republic,--and,
for Central America, is a town of some importance.  It is in the middle of the coffee district,
surrounded by rich soil on which the sugar-cane is produced, is blessed with a climate only
moderately hot, and the native inhabitants are neither cut-throats nor cannibals.  It may be
said, therefore, that by comparison with some other spots to which Englishmen and others are
congregated for the gathering together of money, San Jose may be considered as a happy region;
but, nevertheless, a life there is not in every way desirable.  It is a dull place, with little
to interest either the eye or the ear. Although the heat of the tropics is but little felt
there on account of its altitude, men and women become too lifeless for much enterprise.  There
is no society.  There are a few Germans and a few Englishmen in the place, who see each other
on matters of business during the day; but, sombre as life generally is, they seem to care
little for each other's company on any other footing.  I know not to what point the aspirations
of the Germans may stretch themselves, but to the English the one idea that gives salt to life
is the idea of home.  On some day, however distant it may be, they will once more turn their
faces towards the little northern island, and then all will be well with them.

To a certain Englishman there, and to his dear little wife, this prospect came some few years
since somewhat suddenly.  Events and tidings, it matters not which or what, brought it about
that they resolved between themselves that they would start immediately;-- almost immediately.
They would pack up and leave San Jose within four months of the day on which their purpose
was first formed.  At San Jose a period of only four months for such a purpose was immediately.
It creates a feeling of instant excitement, a necessity for instant doing, a consciousness
that there was in those few weeks ample work both for the hands and thoughts,--work almost
more than ample.  The dear little wife, who for the last two years had been so listless, felt
herself flurried.

"Harry," she said to her husband, "how shall we ever be ready?"  And her pretty face was lighted
up with unusual brightness at the happy thought of so much haste with such an object.  "And
baby's things too," she said, as she thought of all the various little articles of dress that
would be needed.  A journey from San Jose to Southampton cannot in truth be made as easily
as one from London to Liverpool. Let us think of a month to be passed without any aid from
the washerwoman, and the greatest part of that month amidst the sweltering heats of the West
Indian tropics!

In the first month of her hurry and flurry Mrs. Arkwright was a happy woman.  She would see
her mother again and her sisters.  It was now four years since she had left them on the quay
at Southampton, while all their hearts were broken at the parting.  She was a young bride then,
going forth with her new lord to meet the stern world.  He had then been home to look for a
wife, and he had found what he looked for in the younger sister of his partner.  For he, Henry
Arkwright, and his wife's brother, Abel Ring, had established themselves together in San Jose.
And now, she thought, how there would be another meeting on those quays at which there should
be no broken hearts; at which there should be love without sorrow, and kisses, sweet with the
sweetness of welcome, not bitter with the bitterness of parting.  And people told her,--the
few neighbours around her,--how happy, how fortunate she was to get home thus early in her
life.  They had been out some ten,--some twenty years, and still the day of their return was
distant.  And then she pressed her living baby to her breast, and wiped away a tear as she
thought of the other darling whom she would leave beneath that distant sod.

And then came the question as to the route home.  San Jose stands in the middle of the high
plain of Costa Rica, half way between the Pacific and the Atlantic.  The journey thence down
to the Pacific is, by comparison, easy.  There is a road, and the mules on which the travellers
must ride go steadily and easily down to Punta Arenas, the port on that ocean.  There are inns,
too, on the way,-- places of public entertainment at which refreshment may be obtained, and
beds, or fair substitutes for beds.  But then by this route the traveller must take a long
additional sea voyage.  He must convey himself and his weary baggage down to that wretched
place on the Pacific, there wait for a steamer to take him to Panama, cross the isthmus, and
reship himself in the other waters for his long journey home.  That terrible unshipping and
reshipping is a sore burden to the unaccustomed traveller.  When it is absolutely necessary,--then
indeed it is done without much thought; but in the case of the Arkwrights it was not absolutely
necessary.  And there was another reason which turned Mrs. Arkwright's heart against that journey
by Punt' Arenas.  The place is unhealthy, having at certain seasons a very bad name;--and here
on their outward journey her husband had been taken ill.  She had never ceased to think of
the fortnight she had spent there among uncouth strangers, during a portion of which his life
had trembled in the balance.  Early, therefore, in those four months she begged that she might
not be taken round by Punt' Arenas.  There was another route.  "Harry, if you love me, let
me go by the Serapiqui."  As to Harry's loving her, there was no doubt about that, as she well
knew.

There was this other route by the Serapiqui river, and by Greytown. Greytown, it is true, is
quite as unhealthy as Punt' Arenas, and by that route one's baggage must be shipped and unshipped
into small boats.  There are all manner of difficulties attached to it. Perhaps no direct road
to and from any city on the world's surface is subject to sharper fatigue while it lasts. 
Journeying by this route also, the traveller leaves San Jose mounted on his mule, and so mounted
he makes his way through the vast primeval forests down to the banks of the Serapiqui river.
That there is a track for him is of course true; but it is simply a track, and during nine
months of the twelve is so deep in mud that the mules sink in it to their bellies.  Then, when
the river has been reached, the traveller seats him in his canoe, and for two days is paddled
down,--down along the Serapiqui, into the San Juan River, and down along the San Juan till
he reaches Greytown, passing one night at some hut on the river side.  At Greytown he waits
for the steamer which will carry him his first stage on his road towards Southampton.  He must
be a connoisseur in disagreeables of every kind who can say with any precision whether Greytown
or Punt' Arenas is the better place for a week's sojourn.

For a full month Mr. Arkwright would not give way to his wife.  At first he all but conquered
her by declaring that the Serapiqui journey would be dangerous for the baby; but she heard
from some one that it could be made less fatiguing for the baby than the other route.  A baby
had been carried down in a litter strapped on to a mule's back.  A guide at the mule's head
would be necessary, and that was all.  When once in her boat the baby would be as well as in
her cradle.  What purpose cannot a woman gain by perseverance?  Her purpose in this instance
Mrs. Arkwright did at last gain by persevering.

And then their preparations for the journey went on with much flurrying and hot haste.  To
us at home, who live and feel our life every day, the manufacture of endless baby-linen and
the packing of mountains of clothes does not give an idea of much pleasurable excitement; but
at San Jose, where there was scarcely motion enough in existence to prevent its waters from
becoming foul with stagnation, this packing of baby-linen was delightful, and for a month or
so the days went by with happy wings.

But by degrees reports began to reach both Arkwright and his wife as to this new route, which
made them uneasy.  The wet season had been prolonged, and even though they might not be deluged
by rain themselves, the path would be in such a state of mud as to render the labour incessant.
One or two people declared that the road was unfit at any time for a woman,--and then the river
would be much swollen.  These tidings did not reach Arkwright and his wife together, or at
any rate not till late amidst their preparations, or a change might still have been made. 
As it was, after all her entreaties, Mrs. Arkwright did not like to ask him again to alter
his plans; and he, having altered them once, was averse to change them again.  So things went
on till the mules and the boats had been hired, and things had gone so far that no change could
then be made without much cost and trouble.

During the last ten days of their sojourn at San Jose, Mrs. Arkwright had lost all that appearance
of joy which had cheered up her sweet face during the last few months.  Terror at that terrible
journey obliterated in her mind all the happiness which had arisen from the hope of being soon
at home.  She was thoroughly cowed by the danger to be encountered, and would gladly have gone
down to Punt' Arenas, had it been now possible that she could so arrange it. It rained, and
rained, and still rained, when there was now only a week from the time they started.  Oh! if
they could only wait for another month!  But this she said to no one.  After what had passed
between her and her husband, she had not the heart to say such words to him.  Arkwright himself
was a man not given to much talking, a silent thoughtful man, stern withal in his outward bearing,
but tender-hearted and loving in his nature.  The sweet young wife who had left all, and come
with him out to that dull distant place, was very dear to him,--dearer than she herself was
aware, and in these days he was thinking much of her coming troubles.  Why had he given way
to her foolish prayers?  Ah, why indeed?  And thus the last few days of their sojourn in San
Jose passed away from them.  Once or twice during these days she did speak out, expressing
her fears. Her feelings were too much for her, and she could not restrain herself.  "Poor mamma,"
she said, "I shall never see her!"  And then again, "Harry, I know I shall never reach home alive."

"Fanny, my darling, that is nonsense."  But in order that his spoken word might not sound stern
to her, he took her in his arms and kissed her.

"You must behave well, Fanny," he said to her the day before they started.  Though her heart
was then very low within her, she promised him that she would do her best, and then she made
a great resolution.  Though she should be dying on the road, she would not complain beyond
the absolute necessity of her nature.  She fully recognised his thoughtful tender kindness,
for though he thus cautioned her, he never told her that the dangers which she feared were
the result of her own choice.  He never threw in her teeth those prayers which she had made,
in yielding to which he knew that he had been weak.

Then came the morning of their departure.  The party of travellers consisted of four besides
the baby.  There was Mr. Arkwright, his wife, and an English nurse, who was going to England
with them, and her brother, Abel Ring, who was to accompany them as far as the Serapiqui River.
When they had reached that, the real labour of the journey would be over.

They had eight mules; four for the four travellers, one for the baby, a spare mule laden simply
with blankets, so that Mrs. Arkwright might change in order that she should not be fatigued
by the fatigue of her beast, and two for their luggage.  The portion of their baggage had already
been sent off by Punt' Arenas, and would meet them at the other side of the Isthmus of Panama.

For the last four days the rain had ceased,--had ceased at any rate at San Jose.  Those who
knew the country well, would know that it might still be raining over those vast forests; but
now as the matter was settled, they would hope for the best.  On that morning on which they
started the sun shone fairly, and they accepted this as an omen of good.  Baby seemed to lay
comfortably on her pile of blankets on the mule's back, and the face of the tall Indian guide
who took his place at that mule's head pleased the anxious mother.

"Not leave him ever," he said in Spanish, laying his hand on the cord which was fastened to
the beast's head; and not for one moment did he leave his charge, though the labour of sticking
close to him was very great.

They had four attendants or guides, all of whom made the journey on foot.  That they were all
men of mixed race was probable; but three of them would have been called Spaniards, Spaniards,
that is, of Costa Rica, and the other would be called an Indian.  One of the Spaniards was
the leader, or chief man of the party, but the others seemed to stand on an equal footing with
each other; and indeed the place of greatest care had been given to the Indian.

For the first four or five miles their route lay along the high road which leads from San Jose
to Punt' Arenas, and so far a group of acquaintances followed them, all mounted on mules. 
Here, where the ways forked, their road leading through the great forests to the Atlantic,
they separated, and many tears were shed on each side. What might be the future life of the
Arkwrights had not been absolutely fixed, but there was a strong hope on their part that they
might never be forced to return to Costa Rica.  Those from whom they now parted had not seemed
to be dear to them in any especial degree while they all lived together in the same small town,
seeing each other day by day; but now,--now that they might never meet again, a certain love
sprang up for the old familiar faces, and women kissed each other who hitherto had hardly cared
to enter each other's houses.

And then the party of the Arkwrights again started, and its steady work began.  In the whole
of the first day the way beneath their feet was tolerably good, and the weather continued fine.
It was one long gradual ascent from the plain where the roads parted, but there was no real
labour in travelling.  Mrs. Arkwright rode beside her baby's mule, at the head of which the
Indian always walked, and the two men went together in front.  The husband had found that his
wife would prefer this, as long as the road allowed of such an arrangement.  Her heart was
too full to admit of much speaking, and so they went on in silence.

The first night was passed in a hut by the roadside, which seemed to be deserted,--a hut or
rancho as it is called in that country. Their food they had, of course, brought with them;
and here, by common consent, they endeavoured in some sort to make themselves merry.

"Fanny," Arkwright said to her, "it is not so bad after all; eh, my darling?"

"No," she answered; "only that the mule tires one so.  Will all the days be as long as that?"

He had not the heart to tell her that as regarded hours of work, that first day must of necessity
be the shortest.  They had risen to a considerable altitude, and the night was very cold; but
baby was enveloped among a pile of coloured blankets, and things did not go very badly with
them; only this, that when Fanny Arkwright rose from her hard bed, her limbs were more weary
and much more stiff than they had been when Arkwright had lifted her from her mule.

On the second morning they mounted before the day had quite broken, in order that they might
breakfast on the summit of the ridge which separates the two oceans.  At this spot the good
road comes to an end, and the forest track begins; and here also, they would, in truth, enter
the forest, though their path had for some time been among straggling trees and bushes.  And
now, again, they rode two and two, up to this place of halting, Arkwright and Ring well knowing
that from hence their labours would in truth commence.

