Another last look at the bloody scene. It was very hard to have to beat an ignominious retreat,
but it was harder still to have to go without being able to attend to one's wounded comrades,
who were piteously crying aloud for help. To have to leave them in the hands of the enemy was
exceedingly distressing to me. But there was no other course open, and fleeing, I hoped I might
"live to fight another day." I got away, accompanied by Fourie and my Kaffir servant. "Let
us go," I said, "perhaps we shall be able to fall in with some more burghers round here and
have another shot at them." Behind us the British lancers were shouting "Stop, stop, halt you
---- Boers!" They fired briskly at us, but our little ponies responded gamely to the spur and,
aided by the darkness, we rode on safely. Still the lancers did not abandon the chase, and
followed us for a long distance. From time to time we could hear the pitiful cries and entreaties
of burghers who were being "finished off," but we could see nothing. My man and I had fleet
horses in good condition, those of the pursuing lancers were big and clumsy.

My adjutant, Piet Fourie, however, was not so fortunate as myself. He was overtaken and made
a prisoner. Revolvers were being promiscuously fired at us, and at times the distance between
us and our pursuers grew smaller. We could plainly hear them shouting "Stop, or I'll shoot
you," or "Halt, you damned Boer, or I'll run my lance through your blessed body."

We really had no time to take much notice of these pretty compliments. It was a race for life
and freedom. Looking round furtively once more I could distinguish my pursuers; I could see
their long assegais; I could hear the snorting of their unwieldy horses, the clattering of
their swords. These unpleasant combinations were enough to strike terror into the heart of
any ordinary man.

Everything now depended upon the fleetness and staying power of my sturdy little Boer pony,
Blesman. He remained my faithful friend long after he had got me out of this scrape; he was
shot, poor little chap, the day when they made me a prisoner. Poor Blesman, to you I owe my
life! Blesman was plainly in league against all that was British; from the first he displayed
Anglophobia of a most acute character. He has served me in good stead, and now lies buried,
faithful little heart, in a Lydenburg ditch.

In my retreat Sunday River had to be crossed. It was deep, but deep or not, we had to get through
it. We were going at such a pace that we nearly tumbled down the banks. The precipice must
have been very steep; all I remember is finding myself in the water with Blesman by my side.
The poor chap had got stuck with his four legs in the drift sand. I managed to liberate him,
and after a lot of scrambling and struggling and wading through the four foot stream, I got
to the other side. On the opposite bank the British were still firing. I therefore decided
to lie low in the water, hoping to delude them into thinking I was killed or drowned. My stratagem
was successful. I heard one of my pursuers say, "We've finished him," and with a few more pyrotechnic
farewells they retraced their steps towards Ladysmith.

On the other side, however, more horsemen came in pursuit. Unquestionably the British, fired
by their splendid success, were following up their victory with great vigour, and again I was
compelled to hide in the long grass into which my native servant, with Ethiopian instinct,
had already crept. While I was travelling along on foot my man had rescued my horse from the
muddy banks of the river.

When all was said and done I had escaped with a good wetting. Now for Newcastle. I had still
my rifle, revolver, and cartridges left to me; my field-glass I had lost, probably in the river.
Water there was plenty, but food I had none. The track to Newcastle to a stranger, such as
I was in that part of the country, was difficult to discover. To add to my perplexities I did
not know what had happened at Dundee, where I had been told a strong British garrison was in
occupation. Therefore, in straying in that direction I ran the risk of being captured.

Finally, however, I came upon a kaffir kraal. I was curtly hailed in the kaffir language, and
upon my asking my swarthy friends to show me the road, half a dozen natives, armed with assegais,
appeared on the scene. I clasped my revolver, as their attitude seemed suspicious. After they
had inspected me closely, one of the elders of the community said: "You is one of dem Boers
vat runs avay? We look on and you got dum dum to-day. Now we hold you, we take you English
magistrate near Ladysmith." But I know my kaffir, and I sized up this black Englishman instantly.
"The fact is," I said, "I'm trekking with a commando of 500 men, and we are doing a bit of
scouting round your kraal. If you will show me the way to the Biggersbergen I will give you
5s. on account." My amiable and dusky friend insisted on 7s. 6d., but after I had intimated
that if he did not accept 5s. I should certainly burn his entire outfit, slaughter all his
women and kill all his cattle, he acquiesced. A young Zulu was deputed as my guide, but I had
to use my fists and make pretty play with my revolver, and generally hint at a sudden death,
or he would have left me in the lurch. He muttered to himself for some time, and suddenly terminated
his soliloquy by turning on his heels and disappearing in the darkness.

The light of a lantern presently showed a railway station, which I rightly guessed to be Waschbank.
Here two Englishmen, probably railway officials, came up to me, accompanied by my treacherous
guide. The latter had obviously been good enough to warn the officials at the station of my
approach, but luckily they were unarmed. One of them said, "You've lost your way, it appears,"
to which I replied, "Oh, no, indeed; I'm on the right track I think." "But," he persisted,
"you won't find any of your people here now; you've been cut to pieces at Elandslaagte and
Lukas Meyer's and Erasmus's forces round Dundee have been crushed. You had better come along
with me to Ladysmith. I promise you decent treatment." I took care not to get in between them,
and, remaining at a little distance, said, revolver in hand, "Thanks very much, it's awfully
good of you. I have no business to transact in Ladysmith for the moment and will now continue
my journey. Good-night." "No, no, no, wait a minute," returned the man who had spoken first,
"you know you can't pass here." "We shall see about that," I said. They rushed upon me, but
ere they could overpower me I had levelled my revolver. The first speaker tried to disarm me,
but I shook him off and shot him. He fell, and as far I know, or could see, was not fatally
wounded. The other man, thinking discretion the better part of valour, disappeared in the darkness,
and my unfaithful guide had edged away as soon as he saw the glint of my gun.

My adventures on that terrible night were, however, not to end with this mild diversion. About
an hour after daybreak, I came upon a barn upon which the legend "Post Office Savings Bank"
was inscribed. A big Newfoundland dog lay on the threshold, and although he wagged his tail
in a not unfriendly manner, he did not seem disposed to take any special notice of me. There
was a passage between the barn and some stables at the back and I went down to prospect the
latter. What luck if there had been a horse for me there! Of course I should only have wanted
to borrow it, but there was a big iron padlock on the door, though inside the stables I heard
the movements of an animal. A horse meant to me just then considerably more than three kingdoms
to King Richard. For the first time in my life I did some delicate burglary and housebreaking
to boot. But the English declare that all is fair in love and war, and they ought to know.

I discovered an iron bar, which enabled me to wrench off the lock from the stable door, and,
having got so far with my burglarious performance, I entered cautiously, and I may say nervously.
Creeping up to the manger I fumbled about till I caught hold of a strap to which the animal
was tied, cut the strap through and led the horse away. I was wondering why it went so slowly
and that I had almost to drag the poor creature along. Once outside I found to my utter disgust
that my spoil was a venerable and decrepit donkey. Disappointed and disheartened, I abandoned
my booty, leaving that ancient mule brooding meditatively outside the stable door and clearly
wondering why he had been selected for a midnight excursion. But there was no time to explain
or apologise, and as the mule clearly could not carry me as fast as my own legs, I left him
to his meditations.

At dawn, when the first rays of the sun lit up the Biggersbergen in all their grotesque beauty,
I realised for the first time where I was, and found that I was considerably more than 12 miles
from Elandslaagte, the fateful scene of yesterday. Tired out, half-starved and as disconsolate
as the donkey in the stable, I sat myself on an anthill. For 24 hours I had been foodless,
and was now quite exhausted. I fell into a reverie; all the past day's adventures passed graphically
before my eyes as in a kaleidoscope; all the horrors and carnage of the battle, the misery
of my maimed comrades, who only yesterday had answered the battle-cry full of vigour and youth,
the pathos of the dead who, cut down in the prime of their life and buoyant health, lay yonder
on the veldt, far away from wives and daughters and friends for ever more.

While in a brown study on this anthill, 30 men on horseback suddenly dashed up towards me from
the direction of Elandslaagte. I threw myself flat on my face, seeking the anthill as cover,
prepared to sell my life dearly should they prove to be Englishmen. As soon as they observed
me they halted, and sent one of their number up to me. Evidently they knew not whether I was
friend or foe, for they reconnoitred my prostrate form behind the anthill with great circumspection
and caution; but I speedily recognised comrades-in-arms. I think the long tail which is peculiar
to the Basuto pony enabled me to identify them as such, and one friend, who was their outpost,
brought me a reserve horse, and what was even better, had extracted from his saddle-bag a tin
of welcome bully beef to stay my gnawing hunger. But they brought sad tidings, these good friends.
Slain on the battlefield lay Assistant-Commandant J. C. Bodenstein and Major Hall, of the Johannesburg
Town Council, two of my bravest officers, whose loss I still regret.

We rode on slowly, and all along the road we fell in with groups of burghers. There was no
question that our ranks were demoralised and heartsick. Commandant-General Joubert had made
Dannhauser Station his headquarters and thither we wended our way. But though we approached
our general with hearts weighed down with sorrow, so strange and complex a character is the
Boers', that by the time we reached him we had gathered together 120 stragglers, and had recovered
our spirits and our courage. I enjoyed a most refreshing rest on an unoccupied farm and sent
a messenger to Joubert asking him for an appointment for the following morning to hand in my
report of the ill-fated battle. The messenger, however, brought back a verbal answer that the
General was exceedingly angry and had sent no reply. On retiring that night I found my left
leg injured in several places by splinters of shell and stone. My garments had to be soaked
in water to remove them, but after I had carefully cleaned my wounds they very soon healed.

The next morning I waited on the Commandant-General. He received me very coldly, and before
I could venture a word said reproachfully: "Why didn't you obey orders and stop this side of
the Biggarsbergen, as the Council of War decided you should do?" He followed up the reproach
with a series of questions: "Where's your general?" "How many men have you lost?" "How many
English have you killed?" I said deferentially: "Well, General, you know I am not to be bullied
like this. You know you placed me in a subordinate position under the command of General Kock,
and now you lay all the blame for yesterday's disaster on my shoulders. However, I am sorry
to say General Kock is wounded and in British hands. I don't know how many men we have lost;
I suppose about 30 or 40 killed and approximately 100 wounded. The British must have lost considerably
more, but I am not making any estimate."

The grey-bearded generalissimo cooled a little and spoke more kindly, although he gave me to
understand he did not think much of the Johannesburg commando. I replied that they had been
fighting very pluckily, and that by retiring they hoped to retrieve their fortunes some other
day. "H'm," returned the General, "some of your burghers have made so masterly a retreat that
they have already got to Newcastle, and I have just wired Field-Cornet Pienaar, who is in charge,
that I should suggest to him to wait a little there, as I propose sending him some railway
carriages to enable him to retreat still further. As for those Germans and Hollanders with
you, they may go to Johannesburg; I won't have them here any more."

"General," I protested, "this is not quite fair. These people have volunteered to fight for,
and with us; we cannot blame them in this matter. It is most unfortunate that Elandslaagte
should have been lost, but as far as I can see there was no help for it." The old General appeared
lost in thought; he seemed to take but little notice of what I said. Finally he looked up and
fixed his small glittering eyes upon me as if he wished to read my most inmost thoughts.

"Yes," he said, "I know all about that. At Dundee things have gone just as badly. Lukas Meyer
made a feeble attack, and Erasmus left him in the lurch. The two were to charge simultaneously,
but Erasmus failed him at a critical moment, which means a loss of 130 men killed and wounded,
and Lukas Meyer in retreat across the Buffalo River. And now Elandslaagte on the top of all!
All this owing to the disobedience and negligence of my chief officers."

The old man spoke in this strain for some time, until I grew tired and left. But just as I
was on the point of proceeding from his tent, he said: "Look here, Commandant, reorganise your
commando as quickly as you can, and report to me as soon as you are ready." He also gave me
permission to incorporate in the reorganised commando various Hollander and German stragglers
who were loafing round about, although he seemed to entertain an irradicable prejudice against
the Dutch and German corps.

The Commandant of the Hollander corps, Volksraad Member Lombard, came out of the battle unscathed;
his captain, Mr. B. J. Verselewel de Witt Hamer, had been made a prisoner; the Commandant of
the German corps, Captain A. Schiel, fell wounded into British hands, while among the officers
who were killed in action I should mention Dr. H. J. Coster, the bravest Hollander the Transvaal
ever saw, the most brilliant member of the Pretoria Bar, who laid down his life because in
a stupid moment Kruger had taunted him and his compatriots with cowardice.

CHAPTER VI.

RISKING JOUBERT'S ANGER.

After the above unpleasant but fairly successful interview with our Commander-in-Chief, I left
the men I had gathered round me in charge of a field-cornet, and proceeded by train to Newcastle
to collect the scattered remnants of my burghers, and to obtain mules and waggons for my convoy.
For, as I have previously stated, it was at Newcastle we had left all our commissariat-waggons
and draught cattle under a strong escort. On arrival I summoned the burghers together, and
addressing them in a few words, pointed out that we should, so soon as possible, resume the
march, in order to reach the fighting line without delay, and there retrieve the pride and
honour of our commando.

"Our beloved country," I said, "as well as our dead, wounded and missing comrades, require
us not to lose courage at this first reverse, but to continue the righteous struggle even against
overwhelming odds," and so on, in this strain.

I honestly cannot understand why we should have been charged with cowardice at the battle of
Elandslaagte, although many of us seemed to apprehend that this would be the case. We had made
a good fight of it, but overwhelmed by an organised force of disciplined men, eight or ten
times our number, we had been vanquished, and the British were the first to admit that we had
manfully and honourably defended our positions. To put a wrong construction on our defeat was
a libel on all who had bravely fought the fight, and I resented it. There are such things as
the fortunes of war, and as only one side can win, it cannot always be the same. However, I
soon discovered that a small number of our burghers did not seem inclined to join in the prolongation
of the struggle. To have forced them to rejoin us would have served no purpose, so I thought
the best policy would be to send them home on furlough until they had recovered their spirits
and their courage. No doubt the scorn and derision to which they would be subjected by their
wives and sisters would soon induce them to take up arms again and to fulfil the duties their
country required. I therefore requested those who had neither the courage nor the inclination
to return to the front to fall out, and about thirty men fell back, bowing their heads in shame.
They were jeered at and chaffed by their fellows, the majority of whom had elected to proceed.
But the shock of Elandslaagte had been too much for the weaker brethren, who seemed deaf to
every argument, and only wanted to go home. I gave each of these a pass to proceed by rail
to Johannesburg, which read as follows:--

     "Permit..................................... to go to
     Johannesburg on account of cowardice, at Government's
     expense."

They put the permit in their pockets without suspecting its contents, and departed with their
kit to the station to catch the first available train.

The reader will now have formed an idea of the disastrous moral effect of this defeat, and
the subsequent difficulty of getting a commando up to its original fighting strength. But in
spite of this I am proud to say that by far the greater number of the Johannesburgers were
gathered round me and prepared to march to meet the enemy once more.

My trap and all its contents had been captured by the enemy at Elandslaagte, and I found it
necessary to obtain new outfits, &c., at Newcastle. This was no easy matter, as some of the
storekeepers had moved the greater part of their goods to a safer place, while some commandos
had appropriated most of the remainder. What was left had been commandeered by Mr. J. Moodie,
a favourite of General Joubert, who was posing there as Resident Justice of the Peace; and
he did not feel inclined to let any of these goods out of his possession. By alternately buying
and looting, or in other words stealing, I managed to get an outfit by the next morning, and
at break of day we left for Dannhauser Station, arriving there the same evening without further
noteworthy incident.

Next day, when the Johannesburg corps turned out, we numbered 485 mounted men, all fully equipped.
On arrival at Glencoe Station I received a telegram from General Joubert informing me that
he had defeated the enemy at Nicholson's Nek near Ladysmith that day (October 30, 1899) taking
1,300 prisoners, who would arrive at Glencoe the following morning. He desired me to conduct
them to Pretoria under a strong escort. What a flattering order! To conduct prisoners-of-war,
taken by other burghers! Were we then fit for nothing but police duty?

However, orders have to be obeyed, so I sent one of my officers with 40 men to take the prisoners
to Pretoria, and reported to the Commandant-General by telegram that his order had been executed,
also asking for instructions as to where I was to proceed with my commando. The reply I received
was as follows:--

"Pitch your camp near Dundee, and maintain law and order in the Province, also aid the Justice
of the Peace in forwarding captured goods, ammunition, provisions, etc., to Pretoria, and see
that you are not attacked a second time."

This was more than flesh and blood could bear; more than a "white man" could stand. It was
not less than a personal insult, which I deeply resented. Evidently my chief had resolved to
keep us in the background; he would not trust our commando in the fighting line. In short,
he would not keep his word and give us another chance to recoup our losses.

I had, however, made up my mind, and ordered the commando to march to Ladysmith. If the General
would not have me at the front I should cease to be an officer. And, although I had no friends
of influence who could help me I resolved to take the bull by the horns, and leave the rest
to fate.

On the 1st November, 1899, we reached the main army near Ladysmith, and I went at once to tell
General Joubert in person that my men wanted to fight, and not to play policemen in the rear
of the army. Having given the order to dismount I proceeded to Joubert's tent, walked in with
as much boldness as I could muster, and saluted the General, who was fortunately alone. I at
once opened my case, telling him how unfair it was to keep us in the rear, and that the burghers
were loudly protesting against such treatment. This plea was generally used throughout the
campaign when an officer required something to be granted him. At first the old General was
very wrathful. He said I had disobeyed his orders and that he had a mind to have me shot for
breach of discipline. However, after much storming in his fine bass voice, he grew calmer,
and in stentorian tones ordered me for the time being to join General Schalk Burger, who was
operating near Lombard's Kop in the siege of Ladysmith.

That same evening I arrived there with my commando and reported myself to Lieut-General Burger.
One of his adjutants, Mr. Joachim Fourie, who distinguished himself afterwards on repeated
occasions and was killed in action near his house in the Carolina district, showed me a place
to laager in. We pitched our tents on the same spot where a few days before Generals White
and French had been defeated, and there awaited developments.

