The honour of the British flag was much more effectually asserted by the gallant admiral Boscawen,
who, as we have already observed, was intrusted with the conduct of a squadron in the Mediterranean.
It must be owned, however, that his first attempt savoured of temerity. Having in vain displayed
the British flag in sight of Toulon, by way of defiance to the French fleet that lay there
at anchor, he ordered three ships of the line, commanded by the captains Smith, Harland, and
Barker, to advance and burn two ships that lay close to the mouth of the harbour. They accordingly
approached with great intrepidity, and met with a very warm reception from divers batteries,
which they had not before perceived. Two small forts they attempted to destroy, and cannonaded
for some time with great fury; but being overmatched by superior force, and the wind subsiding
into a calm, they sustained considerable damage, and were towed off with great difficulty in
a very shattered condition. The admiral seeing three of his best ships so roughly handled in
this enterprise, returned to Gibraltar in order to refit; and M. de la Clue, the French commander
of the squadron at Toulon, seized this opportunity of sailing, in hopes of passing the Straits'
mouth unobserved, his fleet consisting of twelve large ships and three frigates. Admiral Boscawen,
who commanded fourteen sail of the line with two frigates, and as many fire-ships, having refitted
his squadron, detached one frigate to cruise off Malaga, and another to hover between Estepona
and Ceuta-point, with a view to keep a good look-out, and give timely notice in case the enemy
should approach. On the seventeenth day of August, at eight in the evening, the Gibraltar frigate
made a signal that fourteen sail appeared on the Barbary shore, to the eastward of Ceuta; upon
which the English admiral immediately heaved up his anchors and went to sea. At day-light he
descried seven large ships lying-to; but when the English squadron forbore to answer their
signal, they discovered their mistake, set all their sails, and made the best of their way.
This was the greater part of the French squadron, commanded by M. de la Clue, from whom five
of his large ships and three frigates had separated in the night. Even now, perhaps, he might
have escaped, had he not been obliged to wait for the Souveraine, which was a heavy sailer.
At noon the wind, which had blown a heavy gale, died away, and although admiral Boscawen had
made signal to chase, and engage in a line of battle ahead, it was not till half an hour after
two that some of his headmost ships could close with the rear of the enemy, which, though greatly
out-numbered, fought with uncommon bravery. The English admiral, without waiting to return
the fire of the sternmost, which he received as he passed, used all his endeavours to come
up with the Ocean, which M. de la Clue commanded in person; and about four o'clock in the afternoon,
running athwart her hawse, poured into her a furious broadside: thus the engagement began with
equal vigour on both sides. This dispute, however, was of short duration. In about half an
hour admiral Boscawen's mizen-mast and topsail-yards were shot away, and the enemy hoisted
all the sail they could carry. Mr. Boscawen having shifted his flag from the Namur to the Newark,
joined some other ships in attacking the Centaur, of seventy-four guns, which, being thus overpowered,
was obliged to surrender. The British admiral pursued them all night, during which the Souveraine
and the Guerrier altered their course, and deserted their commander. At day-break, M. de la
Clue, whose left leg had been broke in the engagement, perceiving the English squadron crowding
all their sails to come up with him, and finding himself on the coast of Portugal, determined
to burn his ships rather than they should fall into the hands of the victors. The Ocean was
run ashore two leagues from Lagos, near the fort of Almadana, the commander of which fired
three shots at the English; another captain of the French squadron followed the example of
his commander, and both endeavoured to disembark their men; but the sea being rough, this proved
a very tedious and difficult attempt. The captains of the Téméraire and Modeste, instead of
destroying their ships, anchored as near as they could to the forts Xavier and Lagres, in hopes
of enjoying their protection; but in this hope they were disappointed. M. de la Clue had been
landed, and the command of the Ocean was left to the count de Carne, who, having received one
broadside from the America, struck his colours, and the English took possession of this noble
prize, the best ship in the French navy, mounted with eighty cannon. Captain Bentley of the
Warspite, who had remarkably signalized himself by his courage during the action of the preceding
day, attacked the Téméraire, of seventy-four guns, and brought her off with little damage.
Vice-admiral Broderick, the second in command, advancing with his division, burned the Redoubtable,
of seventy-four guns, which was bulged, and abandoned by her men and officers; but they made
prize of the Modeste, carrying sixty-four guns, which had not been much injured in the engagement.
This victory was obtained by the English admiral at a very small expense of men; the whole
number of the killed and wounded not exceeding two hundred and fifty on board of the British
squadron, though the carnage among the enemy must have been much more considerable, as M. de
la Clue, in his letter to the French ambassador at Lisbon, owned, that on board of his own
ship, the Ocean, one hundred men were killed on the spot, and seventy dangerously wounded.
But the most severe circumstance of this disaster was the loss of four capital ships, two of
which were destroyed, and the other two brought in triumph to England, to be numbered among
the best bottoms of the British navy. What augmented the good fortune of the victors was, that
not one officer lost his Life in the engagement. Captain Bentley, whom the admiral despatched
to England with the tidings of his success, met with a gracious reception from the king, who
knighted him for his gallantry.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

PREPARATIONS MADE BY THE FRENCH FOR INVADING ENGLAND.

As we propose to throw together all the naval transactions of the year, especially those that
happened in the European seas, that they may be comprehended, as it were, in one view, we must
now, without regarding the order of time, postpone many previous events of importance, and
record the last action by sea, that in the course of this year distinguished the flag of Great
Britain. The court of Versailles, in order to embarrass the British ministry, and divert their
attention from all external expeditions, had in the winter projected a plan for invading some
part of the British dominions; and in the beginning of the year had actually begun to make
preparations on different parts of their coast for carrying this design into execution. Even
as far back as the latter end of May, messages from the king to both houses of parliament were
delivered by the earl of Holdernesse and Mr. Pitt, the two secretaries of state, signifying
that his majesty had received advices of preparations making by the French court, with a design
to invade Great Britain: that though persuaded, by the universal zeal and affection of his
people, any such attempt must, under the blessing of God, end in the destruction of those who
engaged in it; yet he apprehended he should not act consistent with that paternal care and
concern which he had always shown for the safety and preservation of his subjects, if he omitted
any means in his power which might be necessary for their defence: he, therefore, acquainted
the parliament with his having received repeated intelligence of the enemy's preparations,
to the end that his majesty might, if he should think proper, in pursuance of the late act
of parliament, cause the militia, or such parts thereof as should be necessary, to be drawn
out and embodied, in order to march as occasion should require. These messages were no sooner
read, than each house separately resolved to present an address, thanking his majesty for having
communicated this intelligence; assuring him, that they would, with their lives and fortunes,
support him against all attempts whatever; that, warmed with affection and zeal for his person
and government, and animated by indignation at the daring designs of an enemy whose fleet had
hitherto shunned the terror of the British navy, they would cheerfully exert their utmost efforts
to repel all insults, and effectually enable their sovereign not only to disappoint the attempts
of France, but, by the blessing of God, turn them to their own confusion.

ACCOUNT OF THUROT.

These and other precautionary steps were accordingly taken; but the administration wisely placed
their chief dependence upon the strength of the navy, part of which was so divided and stationed
as to block up all the harbours of France in which the enemy were known to prepare any naval
armament of consequence. We have seen in what manner rear-admiral Rodney visited the town and
harbour of Havre-de-Grace, and scoured that part of the coast in successive cruises: we have
also recorded the expedition and victory of admiral Boscawen over the squadron of La Clue,
which was equipped at Toulon, with a design to assist in the projected invasion. Not withstanding
this disaster, the French ministry persisted in their design; towards the execution of which
they had prepared another considerable fleet, in the harbours of Rochefort, Brest, and Port-Louis,
to be commanded by M. de Conflans, and reinforced by a considerable body of troops, which were
actually assembled under the duc d'Aiguillon, at Vannes, in Lower Bretagne. Flat-bottomed boats
and transports to be used in this expedition, were prepared in different ports on the coast
of France: and a small squadron was equipped at Dunkirk, under the command of an enterprising
adventurer called Thurot, who had, in the course of the preceding year, signalized his courage
and conduct in a large privateer called the Belleisle, which had scoured the North Seas, taken
a number of ships, and at one time maintained an obstinate battle against two English frigates,
which were obliged to desist, after having received considerable damage. This man's name became
a terror to the merchants of Great Britain; for his valour was not more remarkable in battle
than his conduct in eluding the pursuit of the British cruisers, who were successively detached
in quest of him, through every part of the German Ocean and North Sea, as far as the islands
of Orkney. It must be likewise owned, for the honour of human nature, that this bold mariner,
though destitute of the advantages of birth and education, was remarkably distinguished by
his generosity and compassion to those who had the misfortune to fall into his power; and that
his deportment in every respect entitled him to a much more honourable rank in the service
of his country. The court of Versailles was not insensible to his merit. He obtained a commission
from the French king, and was vested with the command of the small armament now fitting out
in the harbour of Dunkirk. The British government, being apprized of all these particulars,
took such measures to defeat the purposed invasion, as must have conveyed a very high idea
of the power of Great Britain, to those who considered, that, exclusive of the force opposed
to this design, they at the same time carried on the most vigorous and important operations
of war in Germany, America, the East and West Indies. Thurot's armament at Dunkirk was watched
by an English squadron in the Downs, commanded by commodore Boys; the port of Havre was guarded
by rear-admiral Rodney; Mr. Boscawen had been stationed off Toulon, and the coast of Vannes
was scoured by a small squadron detached from sir Edward Hawke, who had, during the summer,
blocked up the harbour of Brest, where Conflans lay with his fleet, in order to be joined by
the other divisions of the armament. These different squadrons of the British navy were connected
by a chain of separate cruisers; so that the whole coast of France, from Dunkirk to the extremity
of Bretagne, was distressed by an actual blockade.

FRENCH FLEET SAILS FROM BREST.

The French fleet being thus hampered, forbore their attempt upon Britain; and the projected
invasion seemed to hang in suspense till the month of August, in the beginning of which their
army in Germany was defeated at Minden. Their designs in that country being baffled by this
disaster, they seemed to convert their chief attention to their sea armament; the preparations
were resumed with redoubled vigour; and, even after the defeat of La Clue, they resolved to
try their fortune in a descent. They now proposed to disembark a body of troops in Ireland.
Thurot received orders to sail from Dunkirk with the first opportunity, and shape his course
round the northern parts of Scotland, that he might alarm the coast of Ireland, and make a
diversion from that part where Conflans intended to effectuate the disembarkation of his forces.
The transports and ships of war were assembled at Brest and Rochefort, having on board a train
of artillery, with saddles, and other accoutrements for cavalry, to be mounted in Ireland;
and a body of French troops, including part of the Irish brigade, was kept in readiness to
embark. The execution of this scheme was, however, prevented by the vigilance of sir Edward
Hawke, who blocked up the harbour of Brest with a fleet of twenty-three capital ships; while
another squadron of smaller ships and frigates, under the command of captain Duff, continued
to cruise along the French coast, from Port L'Orient in Bretagne, to the point of St. Gilles
in Poitou. At length, however, in the beginning of November, the British squadron, commanded
by sir Edward Hawke, sir Charles Hardy, and rear-admiral Geary, were driven from the coast
of France by stress of weather, and on the ninth day of the month anchored in Torbay. The French
admiral, Conflans, snatched this opportunity of sailing from Brest, with one-and-twenty sail
of the line and four frigates, in hopes of being able to destroy the English squadron commanded
by captain Duff, before the large fleet could return from the coast of England. Sir Edward
Hawke, having received intelligence that the French fleet had sailed from Brest, immediately
stood to sea in order to pursue them; and, in the meantime, the government issued orders for
guarding all those parts of the coast that were thought the most exposed to a descent. The
land-forces were put in motion, and quartered along the shore of Kent and Sussex: all the ships
of war in the different harbours, even those that had just arrived from America, were ordered
to put to sea, and every step was taken to disconcert the designs of the enemy.

ADMIRAL HAWKE DEFEATS M. DE CONFLANS.

While these measures were taken with equal vigour and deliberation, sir Edward Hawke steered
his course directly for Quiberon, on the coast of Bretagne, which he supposed would be the
rendezvous of the French squadron: but, notwithstanding his utmost efforts, he was driven by
a hard gale considerably to the westward, where he was joined by two frigates, the Maidstone
and the Coventry. These he directed to keep ahead of the squadron. The weather growing more
moderate, the former made the signal for seeing a fleet on the twentieth day of November, at
half an hour past eight o'clock in the morning, and in an hour afterwards discovered them to
be the enemy's squadron. They were at that time in chase of captain Duff's squadron, which
now joined the large fleet, after having run some risk of being taken. Sir Edward Hawke, who,
when the Maidstone gave the first notice, had formed the line abreast, now perceiving that
the French admiral endeavoured to escape with all the sail he could carry, threw out a signal
for seven of his ships that were nearest the enemy to chase, and endeavour to detain them,
until they could be reinforced by the rest of the squadron, which were ordered to form into
a line-of-battle ahead, as they chased, that no time might be lost in the pursuit. Considering
the roughness of the weather, which was extremely tempestuous; the nature of the coast, which
is in this place rendered very hazardous by a great number of sand-banks, shoals, rocks, and
islands, as entirely unknown to the British sailors as they were familiar to the French navigators;
the dangers of a short day, dark night, and lee-shore--it required extraordinary resolution
in the English admiral to attempt hostilities on this occasion: but sir Edward Hawke, steeled
with the integrity and fortitude of his own heart, animated by a warm love for his country,
and well acquainted with the importance of the stake on which the safety of that country in
a great measure depended, was resolved to run extraordinary risks in his endeavours to frustrate,
at once, a boasted scheme projected for the annoyance of his fellow-subjects. With respect
to his ships of the line, he had but the advantage of one in point of number, and no superiority
in men or metal; consequently, M. de Conflans might have hazarded a fair battle on the open
sea, without any imputation of temerity; but he thought proper to play a more artful game,
though it did not succeed according to his expectation. He kept his fleet in a body, and retired
close in shore, with a view to draw the English squadron among the shoals and islands, on which
he hoped they would pay dear for their rashness and impetuosity, while he and his officers,
who were perfectly acquainted with the navigation, could either stay and take advantage of
the disaster, or, if hard pressed, retire through channels unknown to the British pilots. At
half an hour after two, the van of the English fleet began the engagement with the rear of
the enemy, in the neighbourhood of Belleisle. Every ship, as she advanced, poured in a broadside
on the sternmost of the French, and bore down upon their van, leaving the rear to those that
came after. Sir Edward Hawke, in the Royal George, of one hundred and ten guns, reserved his
fire in passing through the rear of the enemy, and ordered his master to bring him alongside
of the French admiral, who commanded in person on board the Soliel Royal, a ship mounted with
eighty cannon, and provided with a complement of twelve hundred men. When the pilot remonstrated
that he could not obey his command without the most imminent risk of running upon a shoal,
the veteran replied, "You have done your duty in showing the danger; now you are to comply
with my order, and lay me alongside the Soleil Royal." His wish was gratified: the Royal George
ranged up with the French admiral. The Thesée, another large ship of the enemy, running up
between the two commanders, sustained the fire that was reserved for the Soliel Royal; but
in returning the first broadside foundered, in consequence of the high sea that entered her
lower deck-ports, and filled her with water. Notwithstanding the boisterous weather, a great
number of ships on both sides fought with equal fury and dubious success, till about four in
the afternoon, when the Formidable struck her colours. The Superb shared the fate of the Thésée
in going to the bottom. The Hero hauled down her colours in token of submission, and dropped
anchor; but the wind was so high that no boat could be sent to take possession, By this time
day-light began to fail, and the greater part of the French fleet escaped under cover of the
darkness. Night approaching, the wind blowing with augmented violence on a lee-shore, and the
British squadron being entangled among unknown shoals and islands, sir Edward Hawke made the
signal for anchoring to the westward of the small island Dumet; and here the fleet remained
all night in a very dangerous riding, alarmed by the fury of the storm, and the incessant firing
of guns of distress, without their knowing whether it proceeded from friend or enemy. The Soliel
Royal had, under favour of the night, anchored also in the midst of the British squadron; but
at day-break M. de Conflans ordered her cable to be cut, and she drove ashore to the westward
of Crozie. The English admiral immediately made signal to the Essex to slip cable and pursue
her; and, in obeying this order, she ran unfortunately on a sand-bank called Lefour, where
the Resolution, another ship of the British squadron, was already grounded. Here they were
both irrecoverably lost, in spite of all the assistance that could be given; but all their
men, and part of their stores, were saved, and the wrecks were set on fire by order of the
admiral. He likewise detached the Portland, Chatham, and Vengeance, to destroy the Soleil Royal,
which was burned by her own people before the English ships could approach; but they arrived
in time enough to reduce the Hero to ashes on the Lefour, where she had been also stranded;
and the Juste, another of their great ships, perished in the mouth of the Loire. The admiral,
perceiving seven large ships of the enemy riding at anchor between Point Penvas and the mouth
of the river Vilaine, made the signal to weigh, in order to attack them; but the fury of the
storm increased to such a degree, that he was obliged to remain at anchor, and even ordered
the top-gallant masts to be struck. In the meantime, the French ships being lightened of their
cannon, their officers took advantage of the flood, and a more moderate gale under the land,
to enter the Vilaine, where they lay within half a mile of the entrance, protected by some
occasional batteries erected on the shore, and by two large frigates moored across the mouth
of the harbour. Thus they were effectually secured from any attempts of small vessels; and
as for large ships, there was not water sufficient to float them within fighting distance of
the enemy. On the whole, this battle, in which a very considerable number of lives was lost,
may be considered as one of the most perilous and important actions that ever happened in any
war between the two nations; for it not only defeated the projected invasion, which had hung
menacing so long over the apprehensions of Great Britain; but it gave the finishing blow to
the naval power of France, which was totally disabled from undertaking anything of consequence
in the sequel.*

     * During this war, the English had already taken and
     destroyed twenty-seven French ships of the line, and thirty-
     one frigates: two of their great ships and four frigates
     perished; so that their whole loss, in this particular,
     amounted to sixty-four: whereas, the loss of Great Britain
     did not exceed seven sail of the line and five frigates. It
     may be easily conceived how the French marine, at first
     greatly inferior to the naval power of Britain, must have
     been affected by this dreadful balance to its prejudice.

By this time, indeed, Thurot had escaped from Dunkirk, and directed his course to the North
Sea, whither he was followed by commodore Boys, who nevertheless was disappointed in his pursuit;
but the fate of that enterprising adventurer falls under the annals of the ensuing year, among
the transactions of which it shall be recorded. As for sir Edward Hawke, he continued cruising
off the coast of Bretagne for a considerable time after the victory he had obtained, taking
particular care to block up the mouth of the river Vilaine, that the seven French ships might
not escape and join M. Conflans, who made shift to reach Rochefort with the shattered remains
of his squadron. Indeed, this service became such a considerable object in the eyes of the
British ministry, that a large fleet was maintained upon this coast, apparently for no other
purpose, during a whole year; and, after all, the enemy eluded their vigilance. Sir Edward
Hawke, having undergone a long and dangerous conflict with tempestuous weather, was at length
recalled, and presented to his sovereign, who gratified him with a considerable pension, for
the courage and conduct he had so often and so long displayed in the service of his country;
and his extraordinary merit was afterwards honoured with the approbation of the parliament.
The people of France were so dispirited by the defeat of their army at Minden, and the disaster
of their squadron at Lagos, that the ministry of Versailles thought proper to conceal the extent
of their last misfortunes under a palliating detail published in the gazette of Paris, as a
letter from M. Conflans to the count de St. Florentin, secretary of the marine. In this partial
misrepresentation, their admiral was made to affirm, that the British fleet consisted of forty
ships of the line of battle, besides frigates; that the Soleil Royal had obliged the Royal
George to sheer off; that the seven ships which retreated into the river Vilaine had received
very little damage, and would be soon repaired; and that, by the junction of Bompart's squadron,
he should be soon able to give a good account of the English admiral. These tumid assertions,
so void of truth, are not to be imputed to an illiberal spirit of vain glory, so much as to
a political design of extenuating the national calamity, and supporting the spirit of the people.

THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

The alarm of the French invasion, which was thus so happily frustrated, not only disturbed
the quiet of Great Britain, but also diffused itself to the kingdom of Ireland, where it was
productive of some public disorder. In the latter end of October, the two houses of parliament,
assembled at Dublin, received a formal message from the duke of Bedford, lord-lieutenant of
that kingdom, to the following effect: That, by a letter from the secretary of state, written
by his majesty's express command, it appeared that France, far from resigning her plan of invasion,
on account of the disaster that befel her Toulon squadron, was more and more confirmed in her
purpose, and even instigated by despair itself to attempt, at all hazards, the only resource
she seemed to have left for thwarting, by a diversion at home, the measures of England abroad
in prosecuting a war which hitherto opened, in all parts of the world, so unfavourable a prospect
to the views of French ambition: that, in case the body of French troops, amounting to eighteen
thousand men, under the command of the duc d'Aiguillon, assembled at Vannes, where also a sufficient
number of transports was prepared, should be able to elude the British squadron, Ireland would,
in all probability, be one of their chief objects; his grace thought it therefore incumbent
upon him, in a matter of such high importance to the welfare of that kingdom, to communicate
this intelligence to the Irish parliament. He told them, his majesty would make no doubt but
that the zeal of his faithful protestant subjects in that kingdom had been already sufficiently
quickened by the repeated accounts received of the enemy's dangerous designs and actual preparations,
made at a vast expense, in order to invade the several parts of the British dominions. He gave
them to understand he had received his sovereign's commands, to use his utmost endeavours to
animate and excite his loyal people of Ireland to exert their well-known zeal and spirit in
support of his majesty's government, and in defence of all that was dear to them, by timely
preparation to resist and frustrate any attempts of the enemy to disturb the quiet and shake
the security of this kingdom; he therefore, in the strongest manner, recommended it to them
to manifest, upon this occasion, that zeal for the present happy establishment, and that affection
for his majesty's person and government, by which the parliament of that nation had been so
often distinguished. Immediately after this message was communicated, the house of commons
unanimously resolved to present an address to the lord-lieutenant, thanking his grace for the
care and concern he had shown for the safety of Ireland, in having imparted intelligence of
so great importance; desiring him to make use of such means as should appear to him the most
effectual for the security and defence of the kingdom; and assuring him, that the house would
make good whatever expense should be necessarily incurred for that purpose. This intimation,
and the steps that were taken in consequence of it for the defence of Ireland, produced such
apprehensions and distraction among the people of that kingdom, as had well nigh proved fatal
to the public credit. In the first transports of popular fear, there was such an extraordinary
run upon the banks of Dublin, that several considerable bankers were obliged to stop payment;
and the circulation was in danger of being suddenly stagnated, when the lord-lieutenant, the
members of both houses of parliament, the lord-mayor, aldermen, merchants, and principal traders
of Dublin, engaged in an association to support public credit, by taking the notes of bankers
in payment: a resolution which effectually answered the purpose intended.

LOYALTY OF THE IRISH CATHOLICS.

Howsoever the court of Versailles might have flattered itself that their invading army would
in Ireland be joined by a great number of the natives, in all probability it would have been
disappointed in this hope, had their purposed descent even been carried into execution, for
no signs of disaffection to the reigning family appeared at this juncture. On the contrary,
the wealthy individuals of the Romish persuasion offered to accommodate the government with
large sums of money, in case of necessity, to support the present establishment against all
its enemies; and the Roman catholics of the city of Cork, in a body, presented an address to
the lord-lieutenant, expressing their loyalty, in the warmest terms of assurance. After having
congratulated his grace on the unparalleled success which had attended his majesty's arms,
and expressed their sense of the king's paternal tenderness for his kingdom of Ireland, they
acknowledged, with the deepest sense of gratitude, that protection and indulgence they had
enjoyed under his majesty's mild and auspicious reign. They professed the warmest indignation
at the threatened invasion of the kingdom by an enemy, who, grown desperate from repeated defeats,
might possibly make that attempt as a last effort, vainly flattered with the imaginary hope
of assistance in Ireland, from the former attachment of their deluded predecessors. They assured
his grace, in the most solemn manner, that such schemes were altogether inconsistent with their
principles and intentions: that they would, to the utmost exertion of their abilities, with
their lives and fortunes, join in the defence and support of his majesty's royal person and
government against all invaders whatsoever: that they should be always ready to concur in such
measures, and to act such parts in defence of the kingdom, in common with the rest of his majesty's
subjects, as his grace in his great wisdom should be pleased to appoint; and think themselves
particularly happy to be under the direction and command of so known an assertor of liberty,
such an important and distinguished governor. Finally, they expressed the most earnest wish,
that his majesty's arms might be crowned with such a continuance of success as should enable
him to defeat the devices of all his enemies, and obtain a speedy and honourable peace. This
cordial address, which was transmitted to the earl of Shannon, and by him presented to the
duke of Bedford, must have been very agreeable to the government at such a critical conjuncture.

INSURRECTION IN DUBLIN.

Although no traces of disaffection to his majesty's family appeared on this trying occasion,
it must nevertheless be acknowledged, that a spirit of dissatisfaction broke out with extraordinary
violence among the populace of Dublin. The present lord-lieutenant was not remarkably popular
in his administration. He had bestowed one place of considerable importance upon a gentleman
whose person was obnoxious to many people in that kingdom, and perhaps failed in that affability
and condescension which a free and ferocious nation expects to find in the character of him
to whose rule they are subjected. Whether the offence taken at his deportment had created enemies
to his person, or the nation in general began to entertain doubts and jealousies of the government's
designs, certain it is, great pains were taken to propagate a belief among the lower sort of
people, that an union would soon be effected between Great Britain and Ireland; in which case
this last kingdom would be deprived of its parliament and independency, and be subjected to
the same taxes that are levied upon the people of England. This notion inflamed the populace
to such a degree, that they assembled in a prodigious multitude, broke into the house of lords,
insulted the peers, seated an old woman on the throne, and searched for the journals, which,
had they been found, they would have committed to the flames. Not content with this outrage,
they compelled the members of both houses, whom they met in the streets, to take an oath that
they never would consent to such an union, or give any vote contrary to the true interest of
Ireland. Divers coaches belonging to obnoxious persons were destroyed, and their horses killed;
and a gibbet was erected for one gentleman in particular, who narrowly escaped the ungovernable
rage of those riotous insurgents. A body of horse and infantry were drawn out on this occasion,
in order to overawe the multitude, which at night dispersed of itself. Next day addresses to
the lord-lieutenant were agreed to by both houses of parliament, and a committee of inquiry
appointed, that the ringleaders of the tumult might be discovered and brought to condign punishment.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

ALARM OF A DESCENT IN SCOTLAND.

When the ministry of England received the first advice, that M. Thurot had escaped from Dunkirk
with a small squadron of armed ships, having on board a body of land-troops, designed for a
private expedition on the coast of Scotland or Ireland, expresses were immediately despatched
to the commanding officers of the forces in North Britain, with orders to put the forts along
the coast of that kingdom in the best posture of defence; and to hold every thing in readiness
to repel the enemy, in case they should attempt a descent. In consequence of these instructions,
beacons were erected for the immediate communication of intelligence; places of rendezvous
appointed for the regular troops and militia; and strict orders issued that no officer should
absent himself from his duty, on any pretence whatever. The greatest encomium that can be given
to the character of this partisan, is an account of the alarm which the sailing of his puny
armament spread through the whole extent of such a powerful kingdom, whose fleets covered the
ocean. Perhaps Thurot's career would have been sooner stopped, had commodore Boys been victualled
for a longer cruise; but this commander was obliged to put into Leith for a supply of provisions,
at the very time when Thurot was seen hovering on the coast near Aberdeen; and, before the
English squadron was provided for the prosecution of the cruise, the other had taken shelter
at Gottenburgh, in Sweden.

CHAPTER XVII.

     State of the Island of Martinique..... Expedition against
     that Island..... Attempt upon St. Pierre..... Descent on the
     Island of Guadaloupe..... Skirmishes with the Islanders.....
     Fort Louis reduced..... Fate of Colonel Debrisay..... The
     English Fleet sails to Dominique..... General Harrington
     takes Gosier, and Storms the Post of Licorne..... He takes
     Petitbourg and St. Mary's..... The Island capitulates.....
     Island of Marigalante taken by General Barrington..... He
     returns to England..... Treaty with the Indians in North
     America..... Plan of the Campaign..... Ticonderoga and Crown
     Point abandoned by the French..... General Amherst embarks
     on Lake Champlain..... Niagara reduced..... Introduction to
     the Expedition against Quebec..... General Wolfe lands on
     the Island of Orleans, and takes Point Levi..... The English
     Fleet damaged by a Storm..... General Wolfe encamps near the
     Falls of the River Montmorenci, and attacks the French
     Intrenchments there, but is repulsed..... Brigadier Murray
     detached up the River..... Council of War called..... The
     Troops land at the Heights of Abraham..... Battle of
     Quebec..... Quebec taken..... Rejoicings in England

STATE OF THE ISLAND OF MARTINIQUE.

Having finished the detail of the actions achieved in the European seas by the naval force
of Great Britain, within the compass of the present year, we shall now proceed to record the
exploits of the British arms within the tropics, and particularly the expedition to Martinique
and Guadaloupe, which is said to have succeeded even beyond the expectation of the ministry.
A plan had been formed for improving the success of the preceding year in North America, by
carrying the British arms up the river St. Laurence, and besieging Quebec, the capital of Canada.
The armament employed against the French islands of Martinique and Guadaloupe constituted part
of this design, inasmuch as the troops embarked on that expedition were, in case of a miscarriage
at Martinique, intended to reinforce the British army in North America, which was justly considered
as the chief seat of the war. What hope of success the administration conceived from an attempt
upon Martinique, may be guessed from the state of that island, as it appeared in a memorial
presented by the French king's lieutenants of its several districts, to the general of the
French island, in consequence of an order issued in November, for holding them in readiness
to march and defend the island from the English, of whose design they were apprized. They represented
that the trade with the Dutch was become their sole dependence: that they could expect no succour
from Europe, by which they had been abandoned ever since the commencement of the war: that
the traders vested with the privileges of trafficking among them had abused the intention of
the general; and, instead of being of service to the colony, had fixed an arbitrary price for
all the provisions which they brought in, as well as for the commodities which they exported;
of consequence, the former was valued at as high a price as their avarice could exact, and
the latter sunk as low in value as their own selfish hearts could conceive: that the colony
for two months had been destitute of all kinds of provision; the commodities of the planters
lay upon their hands, and their negroes were in danger of perishing through hunger; a circumstance
that excited the apprehension of the most dreadful consequences; as to slaves, half starved,
all kinds of bondage were equal; and people reduced to such a situation were often driven to
despair, seeking in anarchy and confusion a remedy from the evils by which they were oppressed;
that the best provided of the inhabitants laboured under the want of the common necessaries
of life; and others had not so much as a grain of salt in their houses: that there was an irreparable
scarcity of slaves to cultivate their land; and the planters were reduced to the necessity
of killing their own cattle to support the lives of those who remained alive; so that the mills
were no longer worked, and the inhabitants consumed beforehand what ought to be reserved for
their sustenance, in case of being blocked up by the enemy. They desired, therefore, that the
general would suppress the permission granted to particular merchants, and admit neutral vessels
freely into their ports, that they might trade with the colonists unmolested and unrestrained.
They observed, that the citadel of Port-Royal seemed the principal object on which the safety
and defence of the country depended; as the loss of it would be necessarily attended with the
reduction of the whole island: they therefore advised that this fort should be properly provided
with every thing necessary for its safety and defence; and that magazines of provision, as
well as ammunition, should be established in different quarters of the island.--This remonstrance
plainly proves that the island was wholly unprepared to repel the meditated invasion, and justifies
the plan adopted by the ministry of Great Britain. The regular troops of Martinique consisted
of about twenty independent companies, greatly defective in point of number. The militia was
composed of burghers and planters distressed and dissatisfied, mingled with a parcel of wretched
negro slaves, groaning under the most intolerable misery, from whence they could have no hope
of deliverance but by a speedy change of masters; their magazines were empty, and their fortifications
out of repair.

EXPEDITION AGAINST THAT ISLAND.

Such was the state of Martinique, when the inhabitants every day expected a visit from the
British armament, whose progress we shall now relate. On the twelfth day of November in the
preceding year, captain Hughes sailed from St. Helen's with eight sail of the line, one frigate,
four bomb-ketches, and a fleet of transports, having on board six regiments of infantry, and
a detachment of artillery, besides eight hundred marines distributed among the ships of war;
this whole force being under the command of major-general Hopson, an old experienced officer,
assisted by major-general Barrington, the colonels Armigerand Haldane, the lieutenant-colonels
Trapaud and Clavering, acting in the capacity of brigadiers. After a voyage of seven weeks
and three days, the fleet arrived at Barbadoes, and anchored in Carlisle-bay; where they joined
commodore Moore, appointed by his majesty to command the united squadron, amounting to ten
ships of the line, besides frigates and bomb-ketches. Ten days were employed in supplying the
fleet with wood and water, in waiting for the hospital ship, in reviews, re-embarkations, councils
of war, assemblies of the council belonging to the island, in issuing proclamations, and beating
up for volunteers. At length, every great ship being reinforced with forty negroes, to be employed
in drawing the artillery; and the troops, which did not exceed five thousand eight hundred
men, being joined by two hundred Highlanders, belonging to the second battalion of the regiment
commanded by lord John Murray in North America, who were brought as recruits from Scotland
under convoy of the ship Ludlow-castle; the whole armament sailed from Carlisle-bay on the
thirteenth day of January; but by this time the troops, unaccustomed to a hot climate, were
considerably weakened and reduced by fevers, diarrhoeas, the scurvy, and the small-pox; which
last disease had unhappily broke out amongst the transports. Next morning the squadron discovered
the island of Martinique, which was the place of its destination. The chief fortification of
Martinique was the citadel of Port-Royal, a regular fort, garrisoned by four companies, that
did not exceed the number of one hundred and fifty men, thirty-six bombardiers, eighty Swiss,
and fourteen officers. One hundred barrels of beef constituted their whole store of provisions;
and they were destitute of all other necessaries. They were almost wholly unprovided with water
in the cisterns, with spare carriages for their cannon, match, wadding, and langrage; they
had but a small stock of other ammunition; and the walls were in many parts decayed. The only
preparations they had made for receiving the English were some paltry intrenchments thrown
up at St, Pierre, and a place called Casdenavires, where they imagined the descent would probably
be attempted. On the fifteenth day of the month, the British squadron entered the great bay
of Port-Royal, some of the ships being exposed to the shot of a battery erected on the isle
de Ranieres, a little island about half way up the bay. At their first appearance, the Florissant,
of seventy-four guns, which had been so roughly handled by captain Tyrrel in the Buckingham,
then lying under the guns of Fort-Negro, along with two frigates, turned up under the citadel,
and came to an anchor in the Carenage, behind the fortification. One frigate, called the Vestal,
under favour of the night, made her escape through the transports, and directed her course
for Europe; where she was taken by captain Hood, as we have already related. Next day three
ships of the line were ordered to attack Fort-Negro, a battery at the distance of three miles
from the citadel, which, being mounted with seven guns only, was soon silenced, and immediately
possessed by a detachment of marines and sailors; who, being sanded in flat-bottomed boats,
clambered up the rock, and entered through the embrasures with their bayonets fixed. Here,
however, they met with no resistance: the enemy had abandoned the fort with precipitation.
The British colours were immediately hoisted, and sentinels of marines posted upon the parapet.
The next care was to spike and disable the cannon, break the carriages, and destroy the powder
which they found in the magazine: nevertheless, the detachment was ordered to keep possession
of the battery. This service being successfully performed, three ships were sent to reduce
the other battery at Casdenavires, which consisted only of four guns, and these were soon rendered
unserviceable. The French troops, reinforced with militia which had been detached from the
citadel to oppose the disembarkation, perceiving the whole British squadron, and all the transports,
already within the bay, and Fort-Negro occupied by the marines, retired to Port-Royal, leaving
the beach open; so that the English troops were landed without opposition; and, being formed,
advanced into the country towards Fort-Negro, in the neighbourhood of which they lay all night
upon their arms; while the fleet, which had been galled by bomb-shells from the citadel, shifted
their station, and stood farther up the bay. By ten next day, the English officers had brought
up some field-pieces to an eminence, and scoured the woods, from whence the troops had been
greatly annoyed by the small shot of the enemy during the best part of the night, and all that
morning. At noon the British forces advanced in order towards the hill that overlooked the
town and citadel of Port-Royal, and sustained a troublesome fire from enemies they could not
see; for the French militia were entirely covered by the woods and bushes. This eminence, called
the Morne Tortueson, though the most important post of the whole island, was neglected by the
general of Martinique, who had resolved to blow up the fortifications of the citadel: but,
luckily for the islanders, he had not prepared the materials for this operation, which must
have been attended with the immediate destruction of the capital, and indeed of the whole country.
Some of the inferior officers, knowing the importance of the Morne Tortueson, resolved to defend
that post with a body of the militia, which was reinforced by the garrisons of Fort-Negro and
Casdenavires, as well as by some soldiers detached from the Florissant: but, notwithstanding
all their endeavours, as they were entirely unprovided with cannon, extremely defective in
point of discipline, dispirited by the pusillanimity of their governor, and in a great measure
disconcerted by the general consternation that prevailed among the inhabitants, in all probability
they could not have withstood a spirited and well-conducted attack by regular forces. About
two o'clock general Hopson thought proper to desist from his attempt. He gave the commodore
to understand that he could not maintain his ground, unless the squadron would supply him with
heavy cannon, landed near the town of Port-Royal, at a savannah, where the boats must have
been greatly exposed to the fire of the enemy; or assist him in attacking the citadel by sea,
while he should make his approaches by land. Both these expedients* being deemed impracticable
by a council of war, the troops were recalled from their advanced posts, and re-embarked in
the evening, without any considerable molestation from the enemy.

     * The commodore offered to land the cannon on the other side
     of Point-Negro, at a place equally near the road from the
     English army to Port-Royal, and even cause them to be drawn
     up by the seamen, without giving the troops the least
     trouble. But this offer was not accepted. General Hopson
     afterwards declared, that he did not understand Mr. Moore's
     message in the sense which it was meant to imply.

Their attempt on the Morne Tortueson had cost them several men, including two officers, killed
or wounded in the attack; and, in revenge for this loss, they burned the sugar-canes, and desolated
the country, in their retreat. The inhabitants of Martinique could hardly credit the testimony
of their own senses, when they saw themselves thus delivered from all their fears, at a time
when they were overwhelmed with terror and confusion; when the principal individuals among
them had resigned all thought of further resistance, and were actually assembled at the public
hall in Port-Royal, to send deputies to the English general, with proposals of capitulation
and surrender.

ATTEMPT UPON ST. PIERRE.

The majority of the British officers, who constituted a council of war held for this purpose,*
having given their opinion, that it might be for his majesty's service to make an attack upon
St. Pierre, the fleet proceeded to that part of the island, and entered the bay on the nineteenth.

     * The commodore did not attend at this council: it was
     convoked to deliberate upon the opinion of the chief
     engineer, who thought they should make another landing to
     the southward of the Carenage. In this case, the pilots
     declared it would be extremely difficult, if not
     impracticable, for the fleet to keep up a communication with
     the army.

The commodore told the general, that he made no doubt of being able to reduce the town of St.
Pierre; but as the ships might be disabled in the attack so as not to be in a condition to
proceed immediately on any material service; as the troops might be reduced in their numbers,
so as to be incapable of future attacks; and as the reduction of the island of Guadaloupe would
be of great benefit to the sugar colonies; Mr. Mooro proposed that the armament should immediately
proceed to that island, and the general agreed to the proposal. The reasons produced on this
occasion are, we apprehend, such as may be urged against every operation of war. Certain it
is, no conquest can be attempted, either by sea or land, without exposing' the ships and troops
to a possibility of being disabled and diminished; and the same possibility militated as strongly
against an attempt upon Guadeloupe, as it could possibly discourage the attack of St. Pierre.
Besides, Martinique was an object of greater importance than Guadaloupe;* as being the principal
place possessed by the French in those seas, and that to which the operations of the armament
were expressly limited by the instructions received from the ministry.

     * Only as being the seat of government; for Guadaloupe makes
     a much greater quantity of sugar, and equipped a much
     greater number of privateers, with the assistance of the
     Dutch of St. Eustatia, situated in its neighbourhood.

St. Pierre was a place of considerable commerce; and at that very juncture, above forty sail
of merchant ships lay at anchor in the bay. The town was defended by a citadel regularly fortified,
but at that time poorly garrisoned, and so situated as to be accessible to the fire of the
whole squadron; for the shore was bold, and the water sufficient to float any ship of the line.
Before the resolution of proceeding to Gua-daloupe was taken, the commodore had ordered the
bay to be sounded; and directed the Rippon to advance, and silence a battery situated a mile
and a half to the northward of St. Pierre. Accordingly, captain Jekyll, who commanded that
ship, stood in, and anchoring close to the shore, attacked it with such impetuosity, that in
a few minutes it was abandoned. At the same time the Rippon was exposed to the fire of three
other batteries, from which she received considerable damage both in her hull and rigging;
and was in great danger of running aground, when orders were given to tow her out of danger.

DESCENT ON GUADALOUPE.

The whole armament having abandoned the design on Martinique, directed their course to Guadeloupe,
another of the Caribbee islands, lying at the distance of thirty leagues to the westward, about
fifteen leagues in length, and twelve in breadth; divided into two parts by a small channel,
which the inhabitants cross in a ferry-boat. The western division is known by the name of Basseterre;
and here the metropolis stands, defended by the citadel and other fortifications. The eastern
part, called Grandterre, is destitute of fresh water, which abounds in the other division;
and is defended by fort Louis, with a redoubt, which commands the road in the district of Gosier.
The cut, or canal, that separates the two parts, is distinguished by the appellation of the
Salt-river, having a road or bay at each end; namely, the great Cul de Sac, and the small Cul
de Sac. Gua-daloupe is encumbered with high mountains and precipices, to which the inhabitants
used to convey their valuable effects in time of danger; but here are also beautiful plains
watered by brooks and rivers, which fertilize the soil, enabling it to produce a great quantity
of sugar, cotton, indigo, tobacco, and cassia; besides plenty of rice, potatoes, all kinds
of pulse, and fruit peculiar to the island. The country is populous and flourishing, and the
government comprehends two smaller islands called All-Saints and Deseada, which appear at a
small distance from the coast, on the eastern side of the island. The British squadron having
arrived at Bassaterre, it was resolved to make a general attack by sea upon the citadel, the
town, and other batteries by which it was defended. A disposition being made for this purpose,
the large ships took their respective stations next morning, which was the twenty-third day
of January. At nine, the Lion, commanded by captain Trelawney, began the engagement against
a battery of nine guns; and the rest of the fleet continued to place themselves abreast of
the other batteries and the citadel, which mounted forty-six cannon, besides two mortars. The
action in a little time became general, and was maintained on both sides for several hours
with great vivacity; while the commodore, who had shifted his pendant into the Woolwrch frigate,
kept aloof without gun-shot, that he might be the more disengaged to view the state of the
battle, * and give his orders with the greater deliberation.

     * He shifted lus broad pendant on board the Woolwich, as
     well to direct and keep the transports together in a proper
     posture for the landing of the troops, as to cover the
     disembarkation; and also to consult proper measures with the
     general, who saw the necessity of Mr. Moore's being with
     him; and requested that he, with the other general officers
     and engineers, might be admitted on board the Woolwich, in
     order to consult, and take the earliest opportunity of
     landing the troops, as the service necessarily required.

This expedient of an admiral's removing his flag, and retiring from the action while his own
ship is engaged, however consonant to reason., we do not remember to have seen practised upon
any occasion, except in one instance, at Carthagena, where sir Chaloner Ogle quitted his own
ship, when she was ordered to stand in and cannonade the fort of Boca-Chica. In this present
attack, all the sea-commanders behaved with extraordinary spirit and resolution, particularly
the captains Leslie, Burnet, Gayton, Jekyll, Trelawney, and Shuldam, who, in the hottest tumult
of the action, distinguished themselves equally by their courage, impetuosity, and deliberation.
About five in the afternoon the fire of the citadel slackened. The Burford and Berwick were
driven out to sea: so that captain Shuldam, in the Panther, was unsustained; and two batteries
played upon the Rippon, captain Jekyll, who, by two in the afternoon, silenced the guns of
one, called the Morne-rouge; but at the same time could not prevent his ship from running aground.
The enemy perceiving her disaster, assembled in great numbers on the hill, and lined the trenches,
from whence they poured in, a severe fire of musketry. The militia afterwards brought up a
cannon of eighteen pound ball, and for two hours raked her fore and aft with considerable effect:
nevertheless, captain Jekyll returned the fire with equal courage and perseverance, though
his people dropped on every side, until all his grape-shot and wadding were expended, and all
his rigging cut to pieces; to crown his misfortune, a box, containing nine hundred cartridges,
blew up on the poop, and set the ship on fire: which, however, was soon extinguished. In the
meantime, the captain threw out a signal of distress, to which no regard was paid,* till captain
Leslie of the Bristol, coming from sea, and observing his situation, ran in between the Rippon
and the battery, and engaged with such impetuosity, as made an immediate diversion in favour
of captain Jekyll, whose ship remained aground, notwithstanding all the assistance that could
be given, till midnight, when she floated, and escaped from the very jaws of destruction.

     * In all probability it was not perceived by the Commodore.

At seven in the evening, all the other large ships, having silenced the guns to which they
had been respectively opposed, joined the rest of the fleet. The four bombs being anchored
near the shore, began to ply the town with shells and carcasses; so that in a little time the
houses were in flames, the magazines of gunpowder blew up with the most terrible explosion;
and about ten o'clock the whole place blazed out in one general conflagration. Next day, at
two in the afternoon, the fleet came to an anchor in the road of Bassaterre, where they found
the hulls of divers ships which the enemy had set on fire at their approach: several ships
turned out and endeavoured to escape, but were intercepted and taken by the English squadron.
At five, the troops landed without opposition, and took possession of the town and citadel,
which they found entirely abandoned. They learned from a Genoese deserter, that the regular
troops of the island consisted of five companies only, the number of the whole not exceeding
one hundred men; and that they had lain a train to blow up the powder magazine in the citadel:
but had been obliged to retreat with such precipitation as did not permit them to execute this
design. The train was immediately cut off, and the magazine secured. The nails with which they
had spiked up their cannon were drilled out by the matrosses; and in the meantime the British
colours were hoisted on the parapet. Part of the troops took possession of an advantageous
post on an eminence, and part entered the town, Which still continued burning with great violence.
In the morning at day-break, the enemy appeared, to the number of two thousand, about four
miles from the town, as if they intended to throw up intrenchments in the neighbourhood of
a house where the governor had fixed his head-quarters, declaring he would maintain his ground
to the last extremity. To this resolution, indeed, he was encouraged by the nature of the ground,
and the neighbourhood of a pass called the Dos d'Ane, a cleft through a mountainous ridge,
opening a communication with Capesterre, a more level and beautiful part of the island. The
ascent from Basseterre to this pass was so very steep, and the way so broken and interrupted
by rocks and gullies, that there was no prospect of attacking it with success, except at the
first landing, when the inhabitants were under the dominion of a panic. They very soon recovered
their spirits and recollection, assembled and fortified themselves among the hills, armed and
arrayed their negroes, and affected to hold the invaders at defiance. A flag of truce being
sent, with offers of terms to their governor, the chevalier d'Etriel, he rejected them in a
letter, with which his subsequent conduct but ill agreed. [504] [See note 3 U, at the end of
this Vol.] Indeed, from the beginning his deportment had been such as gave a very unfavourable
impression of his character. When the British squadron advanced to the attack, instead of visiting
in person the citadel and the batteries, in order to encourage and animate his people by his
exhortation and example, he retired out of the reach of danger to a distant plantation, where
he remained a tame spectator of the destruction in which his principal town and citadel were
involved. Next morning, when he ought to have exerted himself in preventing the disembarkation
of the English troops, who had a difficult shore and violent surf to surmount, and when he
might have defended the intrenchments and lines which had been made to oppose their landing,
he abandoned all these advantages, and took shelter among the mountains that were deemed inaccessible.

But, howsoever deficient the governor might have been in the article of courage, certain it
is, the inhabitants behaved with great spirit and activity in defence of their country. They
continually harassed the scouring detachments, by firing upon them from woods and sugar plantations,
which last the English burned about their ears in resentment. Their armed negroes were very
expert in this kind of bush fighting. The natives or militia appeared in considerable parties,
and even encountered detached bodies of the British army. A lady of masculine courage, whose
name was Ducharmy, having armed her slaves, they made several bold attempts upon an advanced
post occupied by major Melville, and threw up intrenchments upon a hill opposite to the station
of this officer, who had all along signalized himself by his uncommon intrepidity, vigilance,
and conduct. At length the works of this virago were stormed by a regular detachment, which,
after an obstinate and dangerous conflict, entered the intrenchment sword in hand, and burned
the houses and plantations. Some of the enemy were killed, and a great number taken. Of the
English detachment twelve soldiers were slain, and thirty wounded, including three subaltern
officers, one of whom lost his arm. The greatest body of the enemy always appeared at the governor's
head-quarters, where they had raised a redoubt, and thrown up intrenchments. From these a considerable
detachment advanced on the sixth day of February, in the morning, towards the citadel, and
fell in with an English party, whom they engaged with great vivacity; but, after a short though
warm dispute, they were obliged to retire with some loss. Without all doubt, the inhabitants
of Guadaloupe pursued the most sensible plan that could possibly have been projected for their
own safety. Instead of hazarding a general engagement against regular troops, in which they
could have no prospect of success, they resolved to weary them out by maintaining a kind of
petty war in separate parties, to alarm and harass the English with hard duty in a sultry climate,
where they were but indifferently supplied with provisions and refreshments. Nor were their
hopes in this particular disappointed. Both the army and the navy were invaded with fevers,
and other diseases, epidemical in those hot countries; and the regimental hospitals were so
crowded, that it was judged convenient to send five hundred sick men to the island of Antigua,
where they might be properly attended.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

FORT-LOUIS REDUCED, &c.

In the meantime, the reduction of the islanders on the side of Guadaloupe appearing more and
more impracticable, the general determined to transfer the seat of war to the eastern and more
fertile part of the island, called Grandterre, which, as we have already observed, was defended
by a strong battery, called Fort-Louis. In pursuance of this determination, the great ships
were sent round to Grandterre, in order to reduce this fortification, which they accordingly
attacked on the thirteenth day of February. After a severe cannonading, which lasted six hours,
a body of marines being landed, with the Highlanders,* they drove the enemy from their intrenchments
sword in hand; and, taking possession of the fort, hoisted the English colours.

     * A reinforcement of two or three hundred Highlanders, had
     joined the fleet immediately before the troops landed on
     Guadaloupe.

In a few days after this exploit, general Hopson dying at Basseterre, the chief command devolved
on general Barrington, who resolved to prosecute the final reduction of the island with vigour
and despatch. As one step towards this conquest, the commodore ordered two ships of war to
cruise off the island of Saint Eustatia, and prevent the Dutch traders from assisting the natives
of Guadaloupe, whom they had hitherto constantly supplied with provisions since they retired
to the mountains. General Barrington, on the very first day of his command, ordered the troops
who were encamped to strike their tents and huts, that the enemy might imagine he intended
to remain in this quarter; but in a few days the batteries in and about Basseterre were blown
up and destroyed, the detachments recalled from the advanced posts, and the whole army re-embarked,
except one regiment, with a detachment of artillery, left in garrison at the citadel, the command
of which was bestowed on colonel Debrisay, an accomplished officer of great experience. The
enemy no sooner perceived the coast clear than they descended from the hills, and endeavoured
to take possession of the town, from which, however they were driven by the fire of the citadel.
They afterwards erected a battery, from whence they annoyed this fortification both with shot
and shells, and even threatened a regular attack; but as often as they approached the place,
they were repulsed by sallies from the castle. *

     * The battery which they had raised was attacked at noon,
     taken, and destroyed by captain Blomer, of the sixty-first
     regiment.

In the midst of these hostilities, the gallant Debrisay, together with major Trollop, one lieutenant,
two bombardiers, and several common soldiers, were blown up, and perished, by the explosion
of a powder magazine at the flanked angle of the south-east bastion. The confusion necessarily
produced by such an unfortunate accident, encouraged the enemy to come pouring down from the
hills, in order to make their advantage of the disaster; but they were soon repulsed by the
fire of the garrison. The general, being made acquainted with the fate of colonel Debrisay,
conferred the government of the fort upon major Melville, and sent thither the chief engineer
to repair and improve the fortifications.

ENGLISH FLEET SAILS TO DOMINIQUE.

In the meantime, commodore Moore having received certain intelligence that monsieur de Bompart
had arrived at Martinique, with a squadron consisting of eight sail of the line and three frigates,
having on board a whole battalion of Swiss, and some other troops, to reinforce the garrisons
of the island, he called in his cruisers, and sailed immediately to the bay of Dominique, an
island to windward, at the distance of nine leagues from Guadaloupe, whence he could always
sail to oppose any design which the French commander might form against the operations of the
British armaments. For what reason Mr. Moore did not sail immediately to the bay of Port-Royal
in Martinique, where he knew the French squadron lay at anchor, we shall not pretend to determine.
Had he taken that step, M. Bompart must either have given him battle, or retired into the Carenage,
behind the citadel; in which last case, the English commander might have anchored between Pigeon-Island
and Fort-Negro, and thus blocked him up effectually. By retiring to Dominique, he left the
sea open to French privateers, who rowed along the coasts of these islands, and in a very little
time carried into Martinique above fourscore merchant-ships, belonging to the subjects of Great
Britain. These continual depredations, committed under the nose of the English commodore, irritated
the planters of the English islands, some of whom are said to have circulated unfavourable
reports of that gentleman's character. [505] [See note 3 X, at the end of this Vol.]

GENERAL BARRINGTON TAKES GOSIER, &c.

General Barrington being left with no more than one ship of forty guns for the protection of
the transports, formed a plan of prosecuting the war in Guadaloupe by detachments, and the
success fully answered his expectation. He determined to make a descent on the division of
the island called Grandterre, and for that purpose allotted six hundred men; who, under the
command of colonel Crump, landed between the towns of St. Anne and St. Francois, and destroyed
some batteries of the enemy, from whom he sustained very little opposition. While he was thus
employed, a detachment of three hundred men attacked the town of Gosier, which, notwithstanding
a severe fire, they took by storm, drove the garrison into the woods, set fire to the place,
and demolished the battery and intrenchment raised for its defence. This service being happily
performed, the detachment was ordered to force their way to Fort-Louis, while the garrison
of that castle was directed to make two sallies in order to favour their irruption. They accordingly
penetrated, with some loss sustained in forcing a strong pass, and took possession of a battery
which the enemy had raised against the English camp, in the neighbourhood of Fort Louis. The
general, having hitherto succeeded in his designs, formed the scheme of surprising at one time
the three towns of Petitbourg, Gonoyave, and St. Mary's situated on the Basseterre side of
the little Cul de Sac, and committed the execution of it to the colonels Crump and Clavering:
but the night appointed for the service proved exceedingly dark and tempestuous; and the negro
conductors were so frightened, that they ran several of the flat-bottomed boats on the shoals
that skirt this part of the island. Colonel Clavering landed with about eighty men; but found
himself so entangled with mangrove trees, and the mud so impassably deep, that he was obliged
to re-embark, though not before the enemy had discovered his design. This project having miscarried,
the general detached the same commanders, whose gallantry and conduct cannot be sufficiently
applauded, with a detachment of fifteen hundred men, including one hundred and fifty volunteers
from Antigua, to land in a bay not far from the town of Arnonville, at the bottom of the little
Cul de Sac, under the protection of his majesty's ship Woolwich. The enemy made no opposition
to their landing; but retreated, as the English advanced, to a strong intrenchment thrown up
behind the river Licorne, a post of the utmost importance, as it covered the whole country
as far as the bay of Ma-haut, where provisions and supplies of all sorts were landed from St.
Eustatia. The river was rendered inaccessible by a morass covered with mangroves, except at
two narrow passes, which they had fortified with a redoubt, and intrenchments well pallisadoed,
mounted with cannon, and defended by a numerous militia: besides, the narrow roads, through
which only they could be attacked, were intersected with deep and wide ditches. Notwithstanding
these disadvantages, the English commanders determined to hazard an assault. While four field-pieces
and two howitzers maintained a constant fire upon the top of the intrenchments, the regiment
of Duroure and the Highlanders advanced under this cover, firing by platoons with the utmost
regularity. The enemy, intimidated by their cool and resolute behaviour, began to abandon the
first intrenchment on the left. Then the Highlanders, drawing their swords, and sustained by
part of the regiment, threw themselves in with their usual impetuosity, and followed the fugitives
pell-mell into the redoubt, of which they took possession: but they still maintained their
ground within the intrenchments on the right, from whence they annoyed the assailants both
with musquetry and cannon. In half an hour, an occasional bridge being made, the English troops
passed the river in order to attack this post, which the enemy abandoned with precipitation;
notwithstanding all their haste, however, about seventy were taken prisoners, and among those
some of the most considerable inhabitants of the island. This advantage cost the English two
officers and thirteen men killed, and above fifty wounded.

The roads being mended for the passage of the artillery, the troops advanced towards Petitbourg,
harassed in their march by flying bodies of the enemy, and arrived late at night on the banks
of the river Lizarde, the only ford of which the French had fortified with strong intrenchments,
protected by a battery of four cannon erected on a rising ground in the rear. Colonel Clavering,
while he amused them all night at this place by a constant fire into their lines, transported
in two canoes, which he launched about a mile and a half farther down the river, a sufficient
number of troops, by day-break, to attack them on the other side in flank, while he advanced
in front at the head of his little army; but they did not think proper to sustain the assault.
On the contrary, they no sooner perceived his intention, than they forsook the post, and fled
without order. Colonel Clavering, having passed the river, pursued them to Petit bourg, which
they had also fortified; and here he found captain Uvedale, of the Grenada bomb-ketch, throwing
shells into the redoubt. He forthwith sent detachments to occupy the neighbouring heights;
a circumstance which the enemy no sooner observed, than they deserted the place, and retired
with great expedition. On the fifteenth day of April, captain Steel destroyed a battery at
Gonoyave, a strong post, which, though it might have been defended against an army, the French
abandoned at his approach, after having made a hasty discharge of their artillery. At the same
time colonel Crump was detached with seven hundred men to the bay of Mahaut, where he burned
the town and batteries which he found abandoned, together with a vast quantity of provisions
which had been brought from the island of St. Eustatia. Colonel Clavering, having left a small
garrison at Petitbourg, began his march on the twentieth day of the month towards St. Mary's,
where he understood the enemy had collected their whole force, thrown up intrenchments, and
raised barricadoes; but they had left their rear unguarded. The English commander immediately
detached colonel Barlow with a body of troops to attack them from that quarter, while he himself
advanced against the front of their intrenchment. They stood but one cannon-shot, and then
fled to their lines and batteries at St. Mary's, the flanks of which were covered with woods
and precipices. When they perceived the English troops endeavouring to surmount these difficulties,
and turn their lines, they quitted them in order to oppose the design, and were immediately
attacked with such vivacity, in the face of a severe fire of musketry and cannon, that they
abandoned their ground, and fled in the utmost confusion, leaving the field and all their artillery
to the victors, who took up their quarters for that night at St. Mary's. Next day they entered
the charming country of Capesterre, where eight hundred and seventy negroes belonging to one
planter surrendered at discretion. Here colonel Clavering was met by messieurs de Clainvilliers
and Duqueruy, deputed by the principal inhabitants of the island to know what capitulation
would be granted. These he conducted to Petitbourg, where they were presented to general Barrington;
who, considering the absence of the fleet, the small number of his forces daily diminishing,
the difficulty of the country, and the possibility of the enemy's being reinforced from Martinique,
wisely took the advantage of the present panic, and settled terms of capitulation without delay.
The sanity of this resolution soon appeared. The inhabitants had just signed the agreement,
when a messenger arrived in their camp with information that M. de Beauharnois, the general
of the French islands, had landed at St. Anne's, to the windward, with a reinforcement from
Martinique, consisting of six hundred regulars from Europe, about fifteen hundred volunteers,
besides a great number of the militia drafted from the companies of Martinique, with a great
supply of arms and ammunition, mortars and artillery, under convoy of the squadron commanded
by M. de Bompart, who no sooner learned that the capitulation was signed, than he re-embarked
the troops and stores with all possible expedition, and returned to Martinique. Thus we see
the conquest of this important island, which is said to produce a greater quantity of sugar
than is made in any of the English plantations, was as much owing to accident as to the valour
of the troops and the conduct of the general; for, had the reinforcement arrived an hour sooner
than it actually landed, in all probability the English would have found it impracticable to
finish the reduction of Guadaloupe. Be that as it may, the natives certainly deserved great
commendation, not only for persevering so gallantly in defence of their country, but also for
their fortitude in bearing every species of distress. They now quitted the Dos d'Ane, and all
their other posts, and returned to their respective habitations. The town of Basseterre being
reduced to a heap of ashes, the inhabitants began to clear away the rubbish, and erect occasional
sheds, where they resumed their several occupations with that good humour so peculiar to the
French nation; and general Barrington humanely indulged them with all the assistance in his power.

ISLAND OF MARIGALANTE TAKEN.

The small islands of Deseada, Los Santos, and Petit-terre, were comprised in the capitulation
of Guadaloupe. The inhabitants of Marigalante, which lies about three leagues to the south-east
of Grandterre, extending twenty miles in length, fifteen in breadth, flat and fertile, but
poorly watered and ill fortified, having refused to submit when summoned by the squadron to
surrender, general Barrington resolved to reduce them by force. He embarked a body of troops
on board of transports, which sailed thither under convoy of three ships of war and two bomb
vessels from Prince Rupert's Bay, and at their appearance the islanders submitting, received
an English garrison. Before this period, commodore Moore having received intelligence that
M. de Bompart had sailed from Martinique, with a design to land a reinforcement on Guadaloupe,
and that his squadron was seen seven leagues to windward of Marigalante, he sailed from Prince
Rupert's Bay, and turned to windward. After having been beating about for five days to very
little purpose, he received notice from one of his cruisers, that the French admiral had returned
to Martinique; upon which information he retired quietly to his former station in the bay of
Dominique, the people of which were so insolent as to affirm, in derision, that the English
squadron sailed on one side of the island, and the French upon the other, that they might be
sure of not meeting; but this, without doubt, was an impudent calumny.*

     * The commodore declared that he carried a press-sail night
     and day, in order to come up with the French squadron, and
     took every step that could be devised for that purpose. He
     says, if he had pursued any other course, the French
     commander might have run into the road of St. Kitt's, and
     destroyed or taken a great number of merchant ships which
     were then loading with sugar for England. He says he tried
     every stratagem he could contrive for bringing M. de Bompart
     to action. He even sent away part of his squadron out of
     sight of the inhabitants of Dominique, that they might
     represent to their friends at Martinique his force much
     inferior to what it really was; but this expedient had no
     effect upon M. de Bompart, who made the best of his way to
     Cape François, on the island of Hispaniols.

General Barrington, having happily finished the conquest of Guadaloupe, gave notice to the
commodore, that he intended to send back part of the troops with the transports to England,
about the beginning of July. In consequence of this intimation, Mr. Moore sailed with his squadron
to Basseterre road, where he was next day joined by two ships of the line from England, which
rendered him greatly superior in strength to the commander of the French squadron, who had
retired to the island of Grenada, lying about eight leagues from Guadaloupe. Here he was discovered
by the ship Rippon, whose captain returned immediately to Basseterre, to make the commodore
acquainted with this circumstance: but before he could weigh anchor, a frigate arrived with
information, that Bompart had quitted Grenada, and was supposed to have directed his course
to Hispaniola. The commodore immediately despatched the Ludlow Castle with this intelligence
to admiral Coats, who commanded the squadron at Jamaica. General Barrington having made a tour
of the island, in order to visit and repair such fortifications as he thought necessary to
be maintained, and the affairs relating to the inhabitants being entirely settled, he sent
the Highlanders, with a body of drafts, to North America, under convoy: he garrisoned the principal
strength of the island, and left the chief command to colonel Crump, who had for some time
acted as brigadier-general; colonel Clavering having been sent home to England with the account
of the capitulation. Colonel Melville, who had signalized himself in a remarkable manner ever
since their first landing, continued governor of the citadel at Basseterre; and the command
at Grandterre was conferred on colonel Delgarno. Three complete regiments were alloted as a
sufficient guard for the whole island, and the other three were embarked for England. General
Barrington himself went on board the Roebuck in the latter end of June, and took his departure
for England. About a month after, the transports, under convoy of captain Hughes, with a small
squadron, set sail for Great Britain; while commodore Moore, with his large fleet, directed
his course to Antigua.

TREATY WITH THE INDIANS.

While this armament had been employed in the conquest of Guadaloupe, North America exhibited
still more sanguinary scenes of war and devastation; which, in order properly to introduce,
it will be necessary to explain the steps that were taken on this continent, previous to this
campaign. In October of the preceding year, a grand assembly was held at Easton, about ninety
miles from Philadelphia; and there, peace was established, by a formal treaty, between Great
Britain and the several nations of Indians inhabiting the country between the Apalachian mountains
and the lakes. The Twightwees, however, settled between the river Ohio and the lakes, did not
assist at this treaty, though some steps had been taken towards an alliance with that people.
The conferences were managed by the governors of Pennsylvania and new Jersey, accompanied by
sir William Johnston's deputy for Indian affairs, four members of the council of Pennsylvania,
six members of the assembly, two agents for the province of New Jersey, a great number of planters
and citizens of Philadelphia, chiefly Quakers. They were met by the deputies and chiefs of
the Mohawks, Oneidoes, Onondagoes, Cayugas, Senecas, Tuscaroras, Nanticoques, and Conoys; the
Tuteloes, Chugnues, Delawares, and Unamies; the Minisinks, Mohicans, and Wappingers; the whole
number, including their women and children, amounting to five hundred. Some of the Six Nations,
thinking themselves aggrieved by the British colonists, who had imprisoned certain individuals
of their nation, and had killed a few, and treated others with contempt, did not fail to express
their resentment, which had been artfully fomented by the French emissaries, even into an open
rapture. The Delewares and Minisinks, in particular, complained that the English had encroached
upon their lands, and on that account were provoked to hostilities: but their chief, Teedyuscung,
had made overtures of peace; and in the character of ambassador from all the Ten Nations, had
been very instrumental in forming this assembly. The chiefs of the Six Nations, though very
well disposed to peace, took umbrage at the importance assumed by one of the Delawares, over
whom, as their descendants, they exercise a kind of parental authority; and on this occasion
they made no scruple to disclose their dissatisfaction. The business, therefore, of the English
governors at this congress, was to ascertain the limits of the lands in dispute, reconcile
the Six Nations with their nephews the Delawares, remove every cause of misunderstanding between
the English and the Indians, detach these savages entirely from the French interest, establish
a firm peace, and induce them to exert their influence in persuading the Twightwees to accede
to this treaty. Those Indians, though possessed of few ideas, circumscribed in their mental
faculties, stupid, brutal, and ferocious, conducting themselves nevertheless, in matters of
importance to the community, by the general maxims of reason and justice; and their treaties
are always founded upon good sense, conveyed in a very ridiculous manner. Their language is
guttural, harsh, and polysyllabical; and their speech consists of hyperbolical metaphors and
similies, which invest it with an air of dignity and heighten the expression. They manage their
conferences by means of wampum, a kind of bead formed of a hard shell, either in single strings,
or sewed in broad belts of different dimensions, according to the importance of the subject.
Every proposition is offered, every answer made, every promise corroborated, every declaration
attested, and every treaty confirmed, by producing and interchanging these belts of wampum.
The conferences were continued from the eighth to the twenty-sixth day of October, when every
article was settled to the mutual satisfaction of all parties. The Indian deputies were gratified
with a valuable present, consisting of looking-glasses, knives, tobacco-boxes, sleeve-buttons,
thimbles, sheers, gun-locks, ivory combs, shirts, shoes, stockings, hats, caps, handkerchiefs,
thread, clothes, blankets, gartering, serges, watch-coats, and a few suits of laced clothes
for their chieftains. To crown their happiness, the stores of rum were opened; they drank themselves
into a state of brutal intoxication, and next day returned in peace to their respective places
of habitation.

PLAN OF THE CAMPAIGN.

This treaty with the Indians, who had been debauched from the interest of Great Britain, auspiciously
paved the way for those operations which had been projected against the French settlements
in Canada. Instead of employing the whole strength of the British arms in North America against
one object, the ministry proposed to divide the forces, and make impressions on three different
parts at once, that the enemy might be divided, distracted, and weakened, and the conquest
of Canada completed in one campaign. That the success might be the more certain, the different
expeditions were planned in such a manner as to co-operate with each other, and even join occasionally;
so practicable was it thought for them to maintain such a correspondence as would admit of
a junction of this nature. The project of this campaign imported, that general Wolfe, who had
distinguished himself so eminently in the siege of Louis-bourg, should proceed up the river
St. Laurence, as soon as the navigation should be clear of ice, with a body of eight thousand
men, and a considerable squadron of ships from England, to undertake the siege of Quebec, the
capital of Canada: that general Amherst, who commanded in chief, should, with another army
of regular troops and provincials, amounting to twelve thousand men, reduce Ticonderoga and
Crown Point, cross the lake Champlain, and, proceeding along the river Richelieu to the banks
of the river St. Laurence, join general Wolfe in the siege of Quebec: that brigadier-general
Prideaux, with a third body, reinforced with a considerable number of friendly Indians, assembled
by the influence and under the command of sir William Johnston, should invest the French fort
erected at the fall or cataract of Niagara, which was certainly the most important post of
all French America, as it in a manner commanded all the interior parts of that vast continent.
It overawed the whole country of the Six Nations, who were cajoled into a tame acquiescence
in its being built on their territory: it secured all the inland trade, the navigation of the
great lakes, the communication between Canada and Louisiana, and opened a passage for inroads
into the colonies of Great Britain. It was proposed that the British forces, having reduced
Niagara, should be embarked on the lake Ontario, fall down the river St. Laurence, besiege
and take Montreal, and then join or co-operate with Amherst's army. Besides these larger armaments,
colonel Stanwix commanded a smaller detachment for reducing smaller forts, and scouring the
banks of the lake Ontario. How far this project was founded on reason and military knowledge
may be judged by the following particulars, of which the projectors were not ignorant. The
navigation of the river St. Laurence is dangerous and uncertain. The city of Quebec was remarkably
strong from situation, and fortification, from the bravery of the inhabitants, and the number
of the garrison. Monsieur de Montcalm, an officer of great courage and activity, kept the field
between Montreal and Quebec, with a body of eight or ten thousand men, consisting of regular
troops and disciplined militia, reinforced by a considerable number of armed Indians; and another
body of reserve hovered in the neighbourhood of Montreal, which was the residence of monsieur
de Vaudreuil, governor-general of Canada. The garrison of Niagara consisted of above six hundred
men; the march to it was tedious and embarrassed; and monsieur de Levi scoured the country
with a flying detachment, well acquainted with all the woods and passes. With respect to general
Amherst's share of the plan, the forts of Ticonderoga and Crown-Point stood in his way. The
enemy were masters of the lake Champlain, and possessed the strong fort of Chambly, by the
fall of the river Richelieu, which defended the pass to the river St. Laurence. Even had these
obstacles been removed, it was hardly possible that he and Mr. Wolfe should arrive at Quebec
in the same instant of time. The first that reached it, far from being in condition to undertake
the siege of Quebec, would have run the risk of being engaged and defeated by the covering
army; in which case the other body must have been exposed to the most imminent hazard of destruction,
in the midst of an enemy's country, far distant from any place of safety to which it could
retreat. Had these disasters happened (and, according to the experience of war, they were the
natural consequences of the scheme), the troops at Niagara would in all probability have fallen
an easy sacrifice, unless they had been so fortunate as to receive intelligence in time enough
to accomplish their retreat before they could be intercepted. The design would, we apprehend,
have been more justifiable, or at least not so liable to objection, had Mr. Amherst left two
or three regiments to protect the frontiers of New-York, and, joining Mr. Wolfe with the rest,
sailed by the river St. Laurence to besiege Quebec. Even in that case the whole number of his
troops would not have been sufficient, according to the practice of war, to invest the place,
and cope with the covering enemy. Nevertheless, had the enterprise succeeded, Montcalm must
either have hazarded an engagement against great odds, or retired farther into the country;
then the route would have been open by land and water to Montreal, which could have made little
resistance. The two principal towns being taken, and the navigation of the river St. Laurence
blocked up, all the dependent forts must have surrendered at discretion, except Niagara, which
there was a bare possibility of supplying at an incredible trouble and expense, from the distant
Mississippi; but even then, it might have been besieged in form, and easily reduced. Whatever
defects there might have been in the plan, the execution, though it miscarried in some essential
points, was attended with surprising success. The same good fortune that prospered the British
arms so remarkably in the conquest of Guadaloupe, seemed to interpose still more astonishingly
in their favour at Quebec, the siege of which we shall record in its proper place. At present,
we must attend the operations of general Amherst, whose separate army was first in motion,
though such impediments were thrown in his way as greatly retarded the progress of his operations;
impediments said to have arisen from the pride, insolence, and obstinacy of certain individuals,
who possessed great influence in that part of the world, and employed it all to thwart the
service of their country. The summer was already far advanced before general Amherst could
pass lake George with his forces, although they met with no opposition, and reached the neighbourhood
of Ticonderoga, where, in the preceding year, the British troops had sustained such a terrible
disaster. At first the enemy seemed determined to defend this fortress: but perceiving the
English commander resolute, cautious, and well prepared for undertaking the siege; having,
moreover, orders to retreat from place to place, towards the centre of operations at Quebec,
rather than run the least risk of being made prisoners of war, they, in the night of July the
twenty-seventh, abandoned the post, after having in some measure dismantled the fortifications;
and retired to Crown -Point, a fort situated on the verge of lake Champlain, General Amherst
having taken possession of this important post, which effectually covered the frontiers of
New-York, and secured to himself a safe retreat in case of necessity, ordered the works to
be repaired, and allotted a strong garrison for its defence. This acquisition, however, was
not made without the loss of a brave accomplished young officer, colonel Boger Townshend, who,
in reconnoitering the fort, was killed with a cannon-shot, and fell near the same spot which,
in the former year, had been enriched with the blood of the gallant lord Howe, whom he strongly
resembled in the circumstances of birth, age, qualifications and character.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

GENERAL AMHERST EMBARKS ON LAKE CHAMPLAIN.

While the general superintended the repairs of Ticonderoga, and the men were employed in preparing
batteaux and other vessels, his scouting parties hovered in the neighbourhood of Crown-Point,
in order to watch the motions of the enemy. From one of these detachments he received intelligence,
on the first day of August, that the enemy had retired from Crown-Point. He immediately detached
a body of rangers before him to take possession of the place: then he embarked with the rest
of the army, and on the fourth day of the month landed at the fort, where the troops were immediately
encamped. His next care was to lay the foundation of a new fort, to be maintained for the further
security of the British dominions in that part of the country; and particularly for preventing
the inroads of scalping parties, by whom the plantations had been dreadfully infested. Here
information was received that the enemy had retired to the Isle aux Noix, at the other end
of the lake Champlain, five leagues on the hither side of St. John's; that their force encamped
in that place, under the command of M. de Burlemaque, consisted of three battalions and five
piquets of regular troops, with Canadians and marines, amounting in the whole to three thousand
five hundred effective men, provided with a numerous artillery; and that the lake was occupied
by four large vessels mounted with cannon, and manned with piquets of different regiments,
under the command and direction of M. le Bras, a captain in the French navy, assisted by M.
de Rigal, and other sea-officers. In consequence of this intimation, general Amherst, who had
for some time employed captain Loring to superintend the building of vessels at Ticonderoga,
being resolved to have the superiority on the lake, directed the captain to build with all
possible expedition a sloop of sixteen guns, and a radeau eighty-four feet in length, capable
of carrying six large cannon. These, together with a brigantine, being finished, victualled,
and manned by the eleventh day of October, the general embarked with the whole of the troops
in batteaux, in order to attack the enemy; but next day, the weather growing tempestuous, was
obliged to take shelter in a bay on the western shore, where the men were landed for refreshment.
In the meantime, captain Loring, with his small squadron, sailing down the lake, gave chase
to a French schooner, and drove three of their ships into a bay, where two of them were sunk,
and the third run aground by their own crew, who escaped; one, however, was repaired and brought
away by captain Loring, so that now the French had but one schooner remaining. General Amherst,
after having been some days wind-bound, re-embarked his forces, and proceeded down the lake;
but the storm, which had abated, beginning to blow with redoubled fury, so as to swell the
waves mountains high, the season for action being elapsed, and winter setting in with the most
rigorous severity, he saw the impossibility of accomplishing his design, and was obliged to
desist. Returning to the same bay where he had been sheltered, he landed the troops, and began
his march for Crown-Point, where he arrived on the twenty-first day of October. Having secured
a superiority on the lake, he now employed all his attention in rearing the new fortress at
Crown-Point, together with three small outforts for its better defence; in opening roads of
communication with Ticonderoga, and the governments of Massachusetts and New Hampshire; and
in making dispositions for the winter-quarters of his troops, so as to protect the country
from the inroads of the enemy.

NIAGARA REDUCED.

During this whole summer he received not the least intelligence of Mr. Wolfe's operations,
except a few hints in some letters relating to the exchange of prisoners, that came from the
French general Montcalm, who gave him to understand that Mr. Wolfe had landed in the neighbourhood
of Quebec, and seemed determined to undertake the siege of that city; that he had honoured
him (the French general) with several notes, sometimes couched in a soothing strain, sometimes
filled with threats; that the French army intended to give him battle, and a few days would
determine the fate of Quebec. Though Mr. Amherst was ignorant of the proceedings of the Quebec
squadron, his communication continued open with the forces which undertook the siege of Niagara;
and he received an account of their success before he had quitted the lines of Ticonderoga.
General Prideaux, with his body of troops, reinforced by the Indian auxiliaries under sir William
Johnston, advanced to the cataract of Niagara, without being exposed to the least inconvenience
on his march; and investing the French fortress about the middle of July, carried on his approaches
with great vigour till the twentieth day of that month, when, visiting the trenches, he was
unfortunately slain by the bursting of a cohorn. Mr. Amherst was no sooner informed of his
disaster, than he detached brigadier-general Gage from Ticonderoga, to assume the command of
that army. In the meantime it devolved on sir William Johnston, who happily prosecuted the
plan of his predecessor with all the success that could have been desired. The enemy, alarmed
with the apprehension of losing a place of such importance, resolved to exert their endeavours
for its relief. They assembled a body of regular troops, amounting to twelve hundred men, drawn
from Detroit, Venango, and Presque Isle; and these, with a number of Indian auxiliaries, were
detached under the command of monsieur d'Aubry, on an attempt to reinforce the garrison of
Niagara. Sir William Johnston having received intelligence of their design, made a disposition
to intercept them in their march. In the evening he ordered the light infantry and picquets
to post themselves to the left, on the road leading from Niagara Falls to the fortress; these
were reinforced in the morning with the grenadiers and part of the forty-sixth regiment, commanded
by lieutenant-colonel Massey; and another regiment, under lieutenant-colonel Farquhar, was
posted at the tail of the works, in order to support the guard of the trenches. About eight
in the morning, the enemy being in sight, the Indians in the English army advanced to speak
with their countrymen who served under the French banners; but this conference was declined
by the enemy. Then the French Indians having uttered the horrible scream called the war-whoop,
which by this time had lost its effect among the British forces, the enemy began the action
with impetuosity; but they met with such a hot reception in front, while the Indian auxiliaries
fell upon their flanks, that in a little more than half an hour their whole army was routed,
their general, with all his officers, taken, and the pursuit continued through the woods for
several miles with considerable slaughter. This battle, which happened on the twenty-fourth
day of July, having been fought in sight of the French garrison at Niagara, sir William Johnston
sent major Harvey with a trumpet to the commanding officer, to present him with a list of seventeen
officers taken in the engagement, and to exhort him to surrender before more blood was shed,
while he had it in his power to restrain the Indians. The commandant, having certified himself
of the truth, by sending an officer to visit the prisoners, agreed to treat, and in a few hours
the capitulation was ratified. The garrison, consisting of six hundred and seven effective
men, marched out with the honours of war, in order to be embarked in vessels on the lake, and
conveyed in the most expeditious manner to New-York. They laid down their arms when they embarked;
but were permitted to keep their baggage, and by proper escort protected from the savage insolence
and rapacity of the Indians. All the women were conducted, at their own request, to Montreal;
and the sick and wounded, who could not bear the fatigue of travelling, were treated with humanity.
This was the second complete victory obtained on the continent of North America, in the course
of the same war, by sir William Johnston, who, without the help of a military education, succeeded
so signally in the field by dint of innate courage and natural sagacity. What remarkably characterizes
these battles, is the circumstance of his having taken, in both, the commanders of the enemy.
Indeed, the war in general may be distinguished by the singular success of this gentleman and
the celebrated lord Clive, two self-taught generals; who, by a series of shining actions, have
demonstrated that uninstructed genius can, by its own internal light and efficacy, rival, if
not eclipse, the acquired art of discipline and experience. Sir William Johnston was not more
serviceable to his country by his valour and conduct in the field, than by the influence and
authority which his justice, benevolence, and integrity, had acquired among the Indian tribes
of the Six Nations, whom he not only assembled at Niagara to the number of eleven hundred,
but also restrained within the bounds of good order and moderation.

INTRODUCTION TO THE EXPEDITION AGAINST QUEBEC.

The reduction of Niagara, and the possession of Crown-Point, were exploits much more easily
achieved than the conquest of Quebec, the great object to which all these operations were subordinate.
Of that we now come to give the detail fraught with singular adventures and surprising events;
in the course of which a noble spirit of enterprise was displayed, and the scenes of war were
exhibited in all the variety of desolation. It was about the middle of February that a considerable
squadron sailed from England for Cape Breton, under the command of admirals Saunders and Holmes,
two gentlemen of worth and probity, who had on several occasions signalised their courage and
conduct in the service of their country. By the twenty-first day of April they were in sight
of Louisbourg; but the harbour was blocked up with ice in such a manner, that they were obliged
to bear away for Halifax in Nova-Scotia. From hence rear-admiral Durell was detached with a
small squadron to sail up the river St. Laurence as far as the Isle de Coudres, in order to
intercept any supplies from France intended for Quebec: he accordingly took two store-ships;
but he was anticipated by seventeen sail, laden with provision, stores, and some recruits,
under convoy of three frigates, which had already reached the capital of Canada. Meanwhile
admiral Saunders arrived at Louisbourg; and the troops being embarked, to the number of eight
thousand, proceeded up the river without further delay. The operations by land were intrusted
to the conduct of major-general James Wolfe, whose talents had shone with such superior lustre
at the siege of Louisbourg; and his subordinates in command were the brigadiers Monckton, Townshend,
and Murray; all four in the flower of their age, who had studied the milifeiry art with equal
eagerness and proficiency, and though young in years, were old in experience. The first was
a soldier by descent, the son of major-general Wolfe, a veteran officer of acknowledged capacity:
the other three resembled each other, not only in years, qualifications, and station, but also
in family rank, all three being the sons of noblemen. The situation of brigadier Townshend
was singular; he had served abroad in the last war with reputation, and resigned his commission
during the peace, in disdain at some hard usage he had sustained from his superiors. That his
military talents, however, might not be lost to his country, he exercised them with equal spirit
and perseverance in projecting and promoting the plan of a national militia. When the command
and direction of the army devolved to a new leader, so predominant in his breast was the spirit
of patriotism and the love of glory, that though heir-apparent to a British peerage, possessed
of a very affluent fortune, remarkably dear to his acquaintance, and solicited to a life of
quiet by every allurement of domestic felicity; he waived these considerations: he burst from
all entanglements; proffered his services to his sovereign; exposed himself to the perils of
a disagreeable voyage, the rigours of a severe climate, and the hazard of a campaign peculiarly
fraught with toil, danger, and difficulty.

GENERAL WOLFE LANDS ON THE ISLAND OF ORLEANS.

The armament intended for Quebec sailed up the river St. Laurence, without having met with
any interruption, or having perceived any of those difficulties and perils with which it had
been reported that the navigation of it was attended. Their good fortune in this particular,
indeed, was owing to some excellent charts of the river, which had been found in vessels taken
from the enemy. About the latter end of June the land-forces were disembarked in two divisions
upon the isle of Orleans, situated a little below Quebec, a large fertile island, well cultivated,
producing plenty of grain, abounding with people, villages, and plantations. General Wolfe
no sooner landed on the island of Orleans, than he distributed a manifesto among the French
colonists, giving them to understand that the king his master, justly exasperated against the
French monarch, had equipped a considerable armament in order to humble his pride, and was
determined to reduce the most considerable French settlements in America. He declared it was
not against the industrious peasants, their wives and children, nor against the ministers of
religion, that he intended to make war; on the contrary, he lamented the misfortunes to which
they must be exposed by the quarrel; he offered them his protection; and promised to maintain
them in their temporal possessions, as well as in the free exercise of their religion, provided
they would remain quiet, and take no part in the difference between the two crowns. He observed,
that the English were masters of the river St. Laurence, so as to intercept all succours from
Europe; and had besides a powerful army on the continent, under the command of general Amherst.
He affirmed, that the resolution they ought to take was neither difficult nor doubtful; as
the utmost exertion of their valour would be useless, and serve only to deprive them of the
advantages which they might reap from their neutrality. He reminded them that the cruelties
exercised by the French upon the subjects of Great Britain in America, would excuse the most
severe reprisals; but Britons were too generous to follow such barbarous examples. He again
offered to the Canadians the sweets of peace, amidst the horrors of war; and left it to themselves
to determine their own fate by their own conduct. He expressed his hope that the world would
do him justice, should they oblige him, by rejecting these favourable terms, to adopt violent
measures. He expatiated upon the strength and power, as well as upon the generosity, of Great
Britain, in thus stretching out the hand of humanity; a hand ready to assist them on all occasions,
even when France was by her weakness compelled to abandon them in the most critical conjuncture.
This declaration produced no immediate effect; nor indeed did the Canadians depend on the sincerity
and promised faith of a nation, whom their priests had industriously represented as the most
savage and cruel enemy on earth. Possessed of these notions, which prevailed even among the
better sort, they chose to abandon their habitations, and expose themselves and families to
certain ruin, in provoking the English by the most cruel hostilities, rather than be quiet,
and confide in the general's promise of protection. Instead of pursuing this prudent plan of
conduct, they joined the scalping parties * of Indians who skulked among the woods; and falling
upon the English stragglers by surprise, butchered them with the most inhuman barbarity.

     * The operation of scalping, which, to the shame of both
     nations, was encouraged both by French and English, the
     savages performed in this manner--The hapless victim being
     disabled, or disarmed, the Indian, with a sharp knife,
     provided and worn for the purpose, makes a circular incision
     to the bone round the upper part of the head, and tears off
     the scalp with his fingers. Previous to this execution, he
     generally despatches the prisoner by repeated blows on the
     head, with the hammer-side of the instrument called a
     tomahawk: but sometimes they save themselves the trouble,
     and sometimes the blows prove ineffectual; so that the
     miserable patient is found alive, groaning in the utmost
     agony of torture. The Indian strings the scalps he has
     procured, to be produced as a testimony of his prowess, and
     receives a premium for each from the nation under whose
     banners he has been enlisted.

Mr. Wolfe, whose nature revolted against this wanton and perfidious cruelty, sent a letter
to the French general, representing that such enormities were contrary to the rules of war
observed among civilized nations, dishonourable to the service of France, and disgraceful to
human nature; he therefore desired that the French colonists and Indians might be restrained
within due bounds, otherwise he would burn their villages, desolate their plantations, and
retaliate upon the persons of his prisoners whatever cruelties should, in the sequel, be committed
on the soldiers or subjects of his master. In all probability the French general's authority
was not sufficient to bridle the ferocity of the savages, who continued to scalp and murder,
with the most brutal appetite for blood and revenge, so that Mr. Wolfe, in order to intimidate
the enemy into a cessation of these outrages, found it necessary to connive at some irregularities
in the way of retaliation.

M. de Montcalm, who commanded the French troops, though superior in number to the invaders,
very wisely resolved to depend upon the natural strength of the country, which appeared almost
insurmountable, and had carefully taken all his precautions of defence. The city of Quebec
was tolerably fortified, secured with a numerous garrison, and plentifully supplied with provisions
and ammunition. Montcalm had reinforced the troops of the colony with five regular battalions
formed of the best of the inhabitants, completely disciplined all the Canadians of the neighbourhood
capable of bearing arms, and several tribes of savages. With this army he had taken the field
in a very advantageous situation, encamped along the shore of Beaufort, from the river St.
Charles to the Falls of Montmorenci, every accessible part being deeply intrenched. To undertake
the siege of Quebec against such odds and advantages, was not only a deviation from the established
maxims of war, but a rash enterprise, seemingly urged in diametrical opposition to the dictates
of common sense. Mr. Wolfe was well acquainted with all the difficulties of the undertaking;
but he knew at the same time he should always have it in his power to retreat, in case of emergency,
while the British squadron maintained its station in the river; he was not without hope of
being joined by general Amherst; and he was stimulated by an appetite for glory, which the
prospect of accumulated dangers could not allay. Understanding that there was a body of the
enemy posted, with cannon, at the Point of Levi, on the south shore, opposite the city of Quebec,
he detached against them brigadier Monckton, at the head of four battalions, who passed the
river at night; and next morning, having skirmished with some of the enemy's irregulars, obliged
them to retire from that post, which the English immediately occupied. At the same time colonel
Carlton, with another detachment, took possession of the western point of the island of Orleans:
and both these posts were fortified, in order to anticipate the enemy; who, had they kept possession
of either, might have rendered it impossible for any ship to lie at anchor within two miles
of Quebec. Besides, the Point of Levi was within cannon shot of the city, against which a battery
of mortars and artillery was immediately erected. Montcalm, foreseeing the effect of this manoeuvre,
detached a body of sixteen hundred men across the river, to attack and destroy the works before
they were completed; but the detachment fell into disorder, fired upon each other, and retired
in confusion. The battery being finished without further interruption, the cannons and mortars
began to play with such success, that in a little time the upper town was considerably damaged,
and the lower town reduced to a heap of rubbish.

ENGLISH FLEET DAMAGED BY A STORM.

In the meantime, the fleet was exposed to the most imminent danger. Immediately after the troops
had been landed on the island of Orleans, the wind increased to a furious storm, which blew
with such violence, that many transports ran foul of one another, and were disabled. A number
of boats and small craft foundered, and divers large ships lost their anchors. The enemy resolving
to take advantage of the confusion which they imagined this disaster must have produced, prepared
seven fire ships; and at midnight sent them down from Quebec among the transports, which lay
so thick as to cover the whole surface of the river. The scheme, though well contrived, and
seasonably executed, was entirely defeated by the deliberation of the British admiral, and
the dexterity of his mariners, who resolutely boarded the fire ships, and towed them fast aground,
where they lay burning to the water's edge, without having done the least prejudice to the
English squadron. On the very same day of the succeeding month they sent down a raft of fire-ships,
or radeaux, which were likewise consumed without producing any effect.

GENERAL WOLFE ENCAMPS NEAR THE FALLS OF THE RIVER MONTMORENCI.

The works for the security of the hospital and the stores, on the island of Orleans, being
finished, the British forces crossed the north channel in boats; and, landing under cover of
two sloops, encamped on the side of the river Montmorenci, which divided them from the left
of the enemy. Next morning a company of rangers, posted in a wood to cover some workmen, were
attacked by the French Indians, and totally defeated; however, the nearest troops advancing,
repulsed the Indians in their turn with considerable loss. The reasons that induced general
Wolfe to choose this situation by the Falls of Montmorenci, in which he was divided from Quebec
by this and another river called St. Charles, he explained in a letter to the secretary of
state. He observed, that the ground which he had chosen was high, and in some measure commanded
the opposite side on which the enemy was posted: that there was a ford below the Falls passable
in every tide for some hours, at the latter part of the ebb and beginning of the flood; and
he hoped that means might be found of passing the river higher up, so as to fight the marquis
de Montcalm upon less disadvantageous terms than those of directly attacking his intrenchments.
Accordingly, in reconnoitring the river Montmorenci, a ford was discovered about three miles
above; but the opposite banks, which were naturally steep and covered with woods, the enemy
had intrenched in such a manner, as to render it almost inaccessible. The escort was twice
attacked by the Indians, who were as often repulsed; but these rencounters cost the English
about forty men killed and wounded, including some officers. Some shrewd objections might be
started to the general's choice of ground on this occasion. He could not act at all without
passing the river Montmorenci at a very great disadvantage, and attacking an enemy superior
to himself in number, secured by redoubts and intrenchments. Had he even, by dint of extraordinary
valour, driven them from these strong posts, the success must have cost him a great number
of officers and men: and the enemy might have retreated behind the river St. Charles, which
he also must have passed under the same disadvantages, before he could begin his operations
against the city of Quebec. Had his good fortune enabled him to surmount all these difficulties,
and after all to defeat the enemy in a pitched battle, the garrison of Quebec might have been
reinforced by the wreck of their army; and he could not, with any probability of success, have
undertaken the siege of an extensive fortified place, which he had not troops sufficient to
invest, and whose garrison would have been nearly equal in number to the sum total of the troops
he commanded. At any rate, the chance of a fair engagement in the open field was what he had
little reason to expect in that situation, from the known experience, and the apparent conduct,
of the French general. These objections appeared so obvious and important, that general Wolfe
would not determine to risk an attack, until he had surveyed the upper part of the river St.
Laurence, in hopes of finding some place more favourable for a descent.

On the eighteenth day of July, the admiral, at his request, sent two ships of war, two armed
sloops, and some transports with troops on board, up the river; and they passed the city of
Quebec, without having sustained any damage. The general, being on board of this little armament,
carefully observed the banks on the side of the enemy, which were extremely difficult from
the nature of the ground; and these difficulties were redoubled by the foresight and precaution
of the French commander. Though a descent seemed impracticable between the city and Cape Rouge,
where it was intended, general Wolfe, in order to divide the enemy's force, and procure intelligence,
ordered a detachment, under the command of colonel Carleton, to land higher up, at the Point
au Tremble, to which place he was informed a great number of the inhabitants of Quebec had
retired with their most valuable effects. This service was performed with little loss; and
some prisoners were brought away, but no magazine was discovered. The general, thus disappointed
in his expectation, returned to Montmorenci, where brigadier Townshend had, by maintaining
a superior fire across that river, prevented the enemy from erecting a battery, which would
have commanded the English camp; and now he resolved to attack them, though posted to great
advantage, and everywhere prepared to give him a warm reception. His design was, first to reduce
a detached redoubt close to the water's edge, seemingly situated without gunshot of the intrenchment
on the hill. Should this fortification be supported by the enemy, he foresaw that he should
be able to bring on a general engagement: on the contrary, should they remain tame spectators
of its reduction, he could afterwards examine their situation at leisure, and determine the
place at which they could be most easily attacked. Preparations were accordingly made for storming
the redoubt. On the last day of July, in the forenoon, part of brigadier Monckton's brigade
was embarked in the boats of the fleet, to be transported from the Point of Levi. The two brigades,
commanded by the brigadiers Townshend and Murray, were drawn out in order to pass the ford
when it should be necessary. To facilitate their passage, the admiral had stationed the Centurion
ship of war in the channel, to check the fire of the lower battery, by which the ford was commanded:
a numerous train of artillery was placed upon the eminence, to batter and enfilade the left
of the enemy's intrenchment; and two flat-bottomed armed vessels, prepared for the purpose,
were run aground near the redoubt, to favour the descent of the forces. The manifest confusion
produced among the French by these previous measures, and by the fire of the Centurion, which
was well-directed and sustained, determined Mr. Wolfe to storm this intrenchment without further
delay. Orders were issued that the three brigadiers should put their troops in motion at a
certain signal, which was accordingly made at a proper time of the tide. Many of the boats
from Point Levi ran aground upon a ledge that runs off a considerable distance from the shore;
and this accident occasioned a disorderly which so much time was lost, that the general was
obliged to stop the march of brigadier Townshend's corps, which he perceived to be in motion.
In the meantime, the boats were floated, and ranged in proper order, though exposed to a severe
fire of shot and shells; and the general in person sounding the shore, pointed out the place
where the troops might disembark with the least difficulty. Thirteen companies of Grenadiers,
and two hundred men of the second American battalion, were the first who landed. They had received
orders to form in four distinct bodies, and begin the attack, supported by the corps of brigadier
Monckton, as soon as the other troops should have passed the ford, and be near enough to contribute
to their assistance. These instructions, however, were entirely neglected. Before Mr. Monckton
had landed, and while brigadier Townshend was on his march at a considerable distance, the
grenadiers, without waiting to be drawn up in a regular form, impetuously rushed towards the
enemy's intrenchments in the utmost disorder. Their courage served only to increase their misfortune.
The first fire they received did such execution among them, that they were obliged to shelter
themselves under the redoubt which the French had abandoned at their approach. In this uncomfortable
situation they remained some time, unable to form under so hot a fire, notwithstanding the
utmost efforts of many gallant officers, who lavishly exposed, and even lost their lives in
the honourable discharge of their duty. [511] [See note 3 Y, at the end of this Vol.] The general,
seeing all their efforts abortive, ordered them to retreat, and form behind Monckton's brigade,
which was by this time landed, and drawn up on the beach in order. They accordingly retired
in confusion, leaving a considerable number lying on the field, to the barbarity of the Indian
savages, who massacred the living, and scalped the dead, even in the sight of their indignant
companions. This unhappy accident occasioned a new delay, and the day was already far advanced.
The wind began to blow with uncommon violence, and the tide to make; so that in case of a second
repulse, the retreat of brigadier Townshend might have been rendered hazardous and uncertain;
Mr. Wolfe, therefore, thought proper to desist, and returned without further molestation to
the other side of the river Montmorenci. The admiral ordered the two vessels which were aground
to be set on fire, that they might not fall into the hands of the enemy. The advantages that
favoured an attack in this part, consisted of the following particulars:--All the artillery
could be used with good effect; all the troops could act at once; and in case of a miscarriage,
the retreat was secure and open, at least for a certain time of the tide. These, however, seemed
to be over-balanced by other considerations. The enemy were posted on a commanding eminence;
the beach was covered with deep mud, slippery, and broken into holes and gullies; the hill
was steep, and in some places impracticable; the enemy were numerous, and poured in a very
severe fire from their intrenchments. Had the attack succeeded, the loss of the English must
have been very heavy, and that of the French inconsiderable, because the neighbouring woods
afforded them immediate shelter. Finally, the river St. Charles still remained to be passed
before the town could be invested.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

BRIGADIER MURRAY DETACHED UP THE RIVER.

Immediately after this mortifying check, in which above five hundred men, and many brave officers,
were lost, the general detached brigadier Murray, with twelve hundred men, in transports, above
the town, to co-operate with rear-admiral Holmes, whom the admiral had sent up with some force
against the French shipping, which he hoped to destroy. The brigadier was likewise instructed
to seize every opportunity of fighting the enemy's detachments, and even of provoking them
to battle. In pursuance of these directions, he twice attempted to land on the north shore;
but these attempts were unsuccessful. The third effort was more fortunate. He made a sudden
descent at Chambaud, and burned a considerable magazine, filled with arms, clothing, provisions,
and ammunition. The enemy's ships being secured in such a manner as not to be approached, and
nothing else occurring that required the brigadier's longer stay, he returned to the camp,
with intelligence obtained from his prisoners, that the fort of Niagara was taken, Crown Point
abandoned, and general Amherst employed in making preparations to attack the corps at the isle
aux Nois, commanded by M. Burlemaque. The disaster at the Falls of Montmorenci made a deep
impression on the mind of general Wolfe, whose spirit was too great to brook the most distant
prospect of censure or disgrace. He knew the character of the English people--rash, impatient,
and capricious; elevated to exultation by the least gleam of success, dejected even to despondency
by the most inconsiderable frown of adverse fortune; sanguine, even to childish hyperbole,
in applauding those servants of the public who have prospered in their undertakings; clamorous,
to a degree of prosecution, against those who have miscarried in their endeavours, without
any investigation of merit, without any consideration of circumstances. A keen sense of these
vexatious peculiarities conspiring with the shame of disappointment, and eager desire of retrieving
the laurel that he might by some be supposed to have lost at the Falls of Montmorenci, and
the despair of finding such an occasion, excited an internal agitation, which visibly affected
his external frame, and disordered his whole constitution, which was naturally delicate and
tender. Among those who shared his confidence, he was often seen to sigh; he was often heard
to complain; and even in the transports of his chagrin declare, that he would never return
without success, to be exposed, as other unfortunate commanders had been, to the censure and
reproach of an ignorant and ungrateful populace. This tumult of the mind, added to the fatigues
of the body he had undergone, produced a fever and dysentery, by which for some time he was
totally disabled.

Before he recovered any degree of strength, he desired the general officers to consult together
for the public utility. It was their opinion, that, the Points of Levi and Orleans being left
in a proper state of defence, the rest of the troops should be conveyed up the river, with
a view to draw the enemy from their present situation, and bring them if possible to an engagement.
This measure, however, was not adopted, until the general and admiral had reconnoitred the
town of Quebec, with a view to a general assault; and concluded from their own observations,
reinforced by the opinion of the chief engineer, who was perfectly well acquainted with the
interior of the place, that such an attack could not be hazarded with any prospect of success.
The ships of war, indeed, might have silenced the batteries of the lower town, but they could
not affect the upper works, from which they must have sustained considerable damage. When we
consider the situation of this place, and the fortifications with which it was secured; the
natural strength of the country; the great number of vessels and floating batteries they had
provided for the defence of the river; the skill, valour, superior force, and uncommon vigilance
of the enemy; their numerous bodies of savages continually hovering about the posts of the
English, to surprise parties, and harass detachments; we must own that there was such a combination
of difficulties as might have discouraged and perplexed the most resolute and intelligent commander.

THE TROOPS LAND AT THE HEIGHTS OF ABRAHAM.

In consequence of the resolution taken to quit the camp at Montmorenci, the troops and artillery
were re-embarked, and landed at Point Levi: they afterwards passed up the river in transports,
while admiral Holmes made a movement with his ships to amuse the enemy posted on the north
shore; and the men being much crowded on board, the general ordered one-half of them to be
landed for refreshment on the other side of the river. As no possibility appeared of annoying
the enemy above the town, the scheme of operations was totally changed. A plan was formed for
conveying the troops farther down in boats, and landing them in the night within a league of
Cape Diamond, in hopes of ascending the heights of Abraham, which rise abruptly with a steep
ascent from the banks of the river, that they might take possession of the ground on the back
of the city, where it was but indifferently fortified. The dangers and difficulties attending
the execution of this design were so peculiarly discouraging, that one would imagine it could
not have been embraced but by a spirit of enterprise that bordered on desperation. The stream
was rapid; the shore shelving; the bank of the river lined with sentinels; the landing place
so narrow as to be easily missed in the dark; and the ground so difficult as hardly to be surmounted
in the day-time, had no opposition been expected. If the enemy had received the least intimation
from spy or deserter, or even suspected the scheme; had the embarkation been disordered in
consequence of the darkness of the night, the rapidity of the river, or the shelving nature
of the north shore, near which they were obliged to row; had one sentinel been alarmed, or
the landing place much mistaken; the heights of Abraham must have been instantly secured by
such a force as would, have rendered the undertaking abortive: confusion would necessarily
have ensued in the dark; and this would have naturally produced a panic, which might have proved
fatal to the greater part of the detachment. These objections could not escape the penetration
of the gallant Wolfe, who nevertheless adopted the plan without hesitation, and even executed
it in person; though at that time labouring under a severe dysentery and fever, which had exhausted
his constitution, and reduced him almost to an extremity of weakness. The previous steps being
taken, and the time fixed for this hazardous attempt, admiral Holmes moved with his squadron
farther up the river, about three leagues above the place appointed for the disembarkation,
that he might deceive the enemy, and amuse M. de Bougainville, whom Montcalm had detached with
fifteen hundred men to watch the motions of that squadron; but the English admiral was directed
to sail down the river in the night, so as to protect the landing of the forces; and these
orders he punctually fulfilled. On the twelfth day of September, an hour after midnight, the
first embarkation, consisting of four complete regiments, the light infantry commanded by colonel
Howe, a detachment of Highlanders, and the American grenadiers, was made in flat-bottomed boats,
under the immediate command of the brigadiers Monck-ton and Murray; though general Wolfe accompanied
them in person, and was among the first who landed; and they began to fall down with the tide,
to the intended place of disembarkation, rowing close to the north shore in order to find it
the more easily. Without any disorder the boats glided gently along: but by the rapidity of
the tide, and the darkness of the night, the boats over-shot the mark, and the troops landed
a little below the place at which the disembarkation was intended. [513] [See note 3 Z, at
the end of this Vol.] As the troops landed the boats were sent back for the second embarkation,
which was superintended by brigadier Townshend. In the meantime, colonel Howe, with the light
infantry and the Highlanders, ascended the woody precipices with admirable courage and activity,
and dislodged a sergeant's guard which defended a small intrenched narrow path, by which alone
the rest of the forces could reach the summit. Then they mounted without further molestation
from the enemy, and the general drew them up in order as they arrived. Monsieur de Montcalm
no sooner understood that the English had gained the heights of Abraham, which in a manner
commanded the town on its weakest part, than he resolved to hazard a battle; and began his
march without delay, after having collected his whole force from the side of Beauport.

BATTLE OF QUEBEC.

General Wolfe, perceiving the enemy crossing the river St. Charles, began to form his own line,
which consisted of six battalions and the Louisbourg grenadiers; the right commanded by brigadier
Monckton, and the left by brigadier Murray: to the rear of the left, colonel Howe was posted
with his light infantry, just returned from a four-gun battery, which they had taken without
opposition. M. de Montcalm advancing in such a manner as to show his intention was to flank
the left of the English, brigadier Townshend was sent thither with the regiment of Amherst,
which he formed en potence, presenting a double front to the enemy: he was afterwards reinforced
by two battalions; and the reserve consisted of one regiment drawn up in eight sub-divisions,
with large intervals. The right of the enemy was composed of half the colony troops, two battalions,
and a body of Canadians and savages; their centre consisted of a column formed by two other
regular battalions; and on the left one battalion, with the remainder of the colony troops,
was posted; the bushes and corn-fields in their front were lined with fifteen hundred of their
best marksmen, who kept up an irregular galling fire, which proved fatal to many brave officers,
thus singled out for destruction. This fire, indeed, was in some measure checked by the advanced
posts of the British line, who piqueered with the enemy for some hours before the battle began.
Both armies were destitute of artillery, except two small pieces on the side of the French,
and a single gun which the English seamen made shift to draw up from the landing place. This
was very well served, and galled their column severely. At length, about nine in the morning,
the enemy advanced to the charge with great order and vivacity, though their fire was irregular
and ineffectual. On the contrary, the British forces reserved their shot until the French had
approached within forty yards of their line: then they poured in a terrible discharge; and
continued the fire with such deliberation and spirit, as could not fail to produce a very considerable
effect. General Wolfe was stationed on the right, at the head of Bragg's regiment and the Louisbourg
grenadiers, where the attack was most warm. As he stood conspicuous in the front of the line,
he had been aimed at by the enemy's marksmen, and received a shot in the wrist, which however
did not oblige him to quit the field. Having wrapped a handkerchief round his hand, he continued
giving orders without the least emotion; and advanced at the head of the grenadiers with their
bayonets fixed; when another ball unfortunately pierced the breast of this young hero,* who
fell in the arms of victory, just as the enemy gave way.

     * When the fatal ball took place, general Wolfe, finding
     himself unable to stand, leaned upon the shoulder of a
     lieutenant, who sat down for that purpose. This officer
     seeing the French give way, exclaimed, "They run! they
     run!"--"Who run?" cried the gallant Wolfe, with great
     eagerness. When the lieutenant replied, "The French."--
     "What!" said he, "do the cowards run already? then I die
     happy." So saying, the glorious youth expired.

At that very instant, every separate regiment of the British army seemed to exert itself for
the honour of its own peculiar character. While the right pressed on with their bayonets, brigadier
Murray briskly advanced with the troops under his command, and soon broke the centre of the
enemy: then the High landers, drawing their broad-swords, fell in among them, with irresistible
impetuosity, and drove them with great slaughter into the town, and the works they had raised
at the bridge of the river St. Charles. On the left and rear of the English, the action was
not so violent. Some of the light infantry had thrown themselves into houses; where, being
attacked, they defended themselves with great courage and resolution. Colonel Howe having taken
post with two companies behind a small copse, sallied out frequently on the flanks of the enemy
during this attack, and often drove them into heaps; while brigadier Townshend advanced platoons
against their front; so that the right wing of the French were totally prevented from executing
their first intention. The brigadier himself remained with Amherst's regiment, to support this
disposition, and to overawe a body of savages posted opposite to the light infantry, waiting
for an opportunity to fall upon the rear of the British army. General Wolfe being slain, and
at the same time Mr. Monckton dangerously wounded at the head of Lascelles' regiment, where
he distinguished himself with remarkable gallantry, the command devolved on brigadier Townshend,
who hastened to the centre; and finding the troops disordered in the pursuit, formed them again
with all possible expedition. This necessary task was scarce performed, when M. de Bougainville,
with a body of two thousand fresh men, appeared in the rear of the English. He had begun his
march from Cape Rouge, as soon as he received intelligence that the British troops had gained
the heights of Abraham, but did not come up in time to have any share in the battle. Mr. Townshend
immediately ordered two battalions, with two pieces of artillery, to advance against this officer;
who retired, at their approach, among woods and swamps, where general Townshend very wisely
declined hazarding a precarious attack. He had already obtained a complete victory, taken a
great number of French officers, and was possessed of a very advantageous situation, which
it would have been imprudent to forego. The French general, M. de Montcalm, was mortally wounded
in the battle, and conveyed into Quebec; from whence, before he died, he wrote a letter to
general Townshend, recommending the prisoners to that generous humanity by which the British
nation is distinguished. His second in command was left wounded on the field; and next day
expired on board an English ship, to which he had been conveyed. About one thousand of the
enemy were made prisoners, including a great number of officers; and about five hundred were
slain on the field of battle. The wreck of their army, after they had reinforced the garrison
of Quebec, retired to Point-au-Tremble; from whence they proceeded to Jacques Quatiers, where
they remained intrenched until they were compelled by the severity of the weather to make the
best of their way to Trois Rivieres and Montreal. This important victory was obtained at the
expense of fifty men killed, including nine officers; and of about five hundred men wounded:
but the death of general Wolfe was a national loss, universally lamented. He inherited from
nature an animating fervour of sentiment, an intuitive perception, an extensive capacity, and
a passion for glory, which stimulated him to acquire every species of military knowledge that
study could comprehend, that actual service could illustrate and confirm. This noble warmth
of disposition, seldom fails to call forth and unfold the liberal virtues of the soul. Brave
above all estimation of danger, he was also generous, gentle, complacent and humane; the pattern
of the officer, the darling of the soldier: there was a sublimity in his genius which soared
above the pitch of ordinary minds; and had his faculties been exercised to their full extent
by opportunity and action, had his judgment been fully matured by age and experience, he would
without doubt have rivalled in reputation the most celebrated captains of antiquity.

QUEBEC TAKEN.

Immediately after the battle of Quebec, admiral Saunders, who, together with his subordinates
Durell and Holmes, had all along co-operated heartily with the land-forces for the advantage
of the service, sent up all the boats of the fleet with artillery and ammunition; and on the
seventeenth day of the month sailed up with all the ships of war, in a disposition to attack
the lower town, while the upper part should be assaulted by general Townshend. This gentleman
had employed the time from the day of action in securing the camp with redoubts, in forming
a military road for the cannon, in drawing up the artillery, preparing batteries, and cutting
off the enemy's communication with the country. On the seventeenth, before any battery could
be finished, a flag of truce was sent from the town, with proposals of capitulation; which,
being maturely considered by the general and admiral, were accepted, and signed at eight next
morning. They granted the more favourable terms, as the enemy continued to assemble in the
rear of the British army; as the season was become wet, stormy, and cold, threatening the troops
with sickness, and the fleet with accident; and as a considerable advantage would result from
taking possession of the town while the walls were in a state of defence. What rendered the
capitulation still more fortunate for the British general, was the information he afterwards
received from deserters, that the enemy had rallied, and were reinforced behind cape Rouge,
under the command of M. de Levy, arrived from Montreal for that purpose, with two regular battalions;
and that M. de Bougainville, at the head of eight hundred men, with a convoy of provisions,
was actually on his march to throw himself into the town on the eighteenth, that very morning
on which it was surrendered. The place was not then completely invested, as the enemy had broke
the bridge of boats, and posted detachments in very strong works on the other side of the river
St. Charles. The capitulation was no sooner ratified, than the British forces took possession
of Quebec on the land side; and guards were posted in different parts of the town, to preserve
order and discipline; at the same time captain Palliser, with a body of seamen, entered the
lower town and took the same precautions. Next day about a thousand prisoners were embarked
on board transports, which proceeded to France with the first opportunity. Meanwhile the inhabitants
of the country came in great numbers, to deliver up their arms, and take the oath of fidelity
to the English government. The death of Montcalm, which was indeed an irreparable loss to France,
in all probability overwhelmed the enemy with consternation, and confounded all their councils;
otherwise we cannot account for the tame surrender of Quebec to a handful of troops, even after
the victory they had obtained: for although the place was not regularly fortified on the land-side,
and most of the houses were in ruins, their walls and parapets had not yet sustained the least
damage; the besiegers were hardly sufficient to complete the investiture; a fresh army was
assembled in the neighbourhood, with which their communication continued open; the season was
so far advanced, that the British forces in a little time must have been forced to desist by
the severity of the weather, and even retire with their fleet before the approach of winter,
which never fails to freeze up the river St. Laurence.

Immediately after the action at the Falls of Montmorenci, general Wolfe had despatched an officer
to England, with a detail of that disaster, written with such elegance and accuracy, as would
not have disgraced the pen of a Cæsar. Though the public acquiesced in his conduct, they were
exceedingly mortified at his miscarriage; and this mortification was the greater, as he seemed
to despair of being able to strike any other stroke of importance for the accomplishment of
their hope, which had aspired at the absolute conquest of Canada. The first transports of their
chagrin were not yet subsided, when colonel Hale arrived in the ship Alcide, with an account
of the victory and surrender of Quebec; which was immediately communicated to the people in
an Extraordinary Gazette. The joy which this excited among the populace rose in proportion
to the despondence which the former had produced: all was rapture and riot; all was triumph
and exultation, mingled with the praise of the all-accomplished Wolfe, which they exalted even
to a ridiculous degree of hyperbole. The king expressed his satisfaction by conferring the
honour of knighthood upon captain Douglas, whose ship brought the first tidings of this success;
and gratified him and colonel Hale with considerable presents. A day of solemn thanksgiving
was appointed by proclamation through all the dominions of Great Britain. The city of London,
the universities, and many other corporations of the kingdom, presented congratulatory addresses
to his majesty. The parliament was no sooner assembled, than the secretary of state, in the
house of commons, expatiated upon the successes of the campaign, the transcendent merit of
the deceased general, the conduct and courage of the admirals and officers who assisted in
the conquest of Quebec. In consequence of this harangue, and the motion by which it was succeeded,
the house unanimously resolved to present an address, desiring his majesty would order a monument
to be erected in Westminster-abbey to the memory of major-general Wolfe; at the same time they
passed another resolution, that the thanks of the house should be given to the surviving generals
and admirals employed in the glorious and successful expedition to Quebec. Testimonies of this
kind, while they reflect honour upon the character of the nation, never fail to animate individuals
to a spirited exertion of their talents in the service of the public. The people of England
were so elevated by the astonishing success of this campaign, which was also prosperous on
the continent of Europe, that, far from expressing the least sense of the enormous burdens
which they bore, they, with a spirit peculiar to the British nation, voluntarily raised large
contributions to purchase warm jackets, stockings, shoes, coats, and blankets, for the soldiers
who were exposed to the rigours of an inclement sky in Germany and America. But they displayed
a more noble proof of unrestrained benevolence, extended even to foes. The French ministry,
straitened in their finances, which were found scarce sufficient to maintain the war, had sacrificed
their duty to their king, and every sentiment of compassion for his unhappy subjects, to a
thirst of vengeance, and sanguinary views of ambition. They had withdrawn the usual allowance
from their subjects who were detained prisoners in England; and those wretched creatures, amounting
in number to near twenty thousand, were left to the mercy of those enemies whom their sovereign
had taken such pains to exasperate. The allowance with which they were indulged by the British
government effectually secured them from the horrors of famine; but still they remained destitute
of other conveniences, and particularly exposed to the miseries of cold and nakedness. The
generous English beheld these forlorn captives with sentiments of sympathy and compassion;
they considered them as their fellow-creatures and brethren in humanity, and forgot their country
while they beheld their distress. A considerable subscription was raised in their behalf; and
in a few weeks they were completely clothed by the charity of their British benefactors. This
beneficent exertion was certainly one of the noblest triumphs of the human mind, which even
the most inveterate enemies of Great Britain cannot but regard with reverence and admiration.--The
city of Quebec being reduced, together with great part of the circumjacent country, brigadier
Townshend, who had accepted his commission with the express proviso that he should return to
England at the end of the campaign, left a garrison of five thousand effective men, victualled
from the fleet, under the command of brigadier Murray; and, embarking with admiral Saunders,
arrived in Great Britain about the beginning of winter. As for brigadier Monckton, he was conveyed
to New York, where he happily recovered of his wound.

CHAPTER XVIII.

     Siege of Madras..... Colonel Forde defeats the Marquis de
     Conflans near Gola-pool..... Captain Knox takes Rajamundry
     and Narsipore..... Colonel Forde takes Masulipatam.....
     Surat taken by the English..... Unsuccessful Attack upon
     Wandewash..... Admiral Pococke defeats Monsieur d'Apehé.....
     Hostilities of the Dutch on the River of Bengal..... Colonel
     Coote takes Wandewash..... Defeats General Lally..... and
     conquers the Province of Arcot..... State of the
     Belligerent Powers in Europe..... Frankfort seized by the
     French..... Progress  of the   Hereditary Prince  of
     Brunswick..... Prince Ferdinand attacks the French at
     Bergen..... The British Ministry appoint an Inspector
     General of the Forage..... Prince Ferdinand retreats before
     the French Army..... Animosity between the General of the
     Allied Army and the Commander of the British Forces..... The
     French encamp at Min-den..... and are defeated by the
     Allies..... Duke de Brissac routed by the Hereditary Prince
     of Brunswick..... General Imhoff takes Munster from the
     French..... who retreat before Prince Ferdinand..... The
     Hereditary Prince beats up the Duke of Wirtemberg's Quarters
     at Fulda..... A Body of Prussians make an incursion into
     Poland..... Prince Henry penetrates into Bohemia..... He
     enters Franconia, and obliges the Imperial Army to
     retire..... King of Prussia vindicates his Conduct with
     respect to his Prisoners..... The Prussian General Wedel
     defeated by the Russians at Zullichau..... The King of
     Prussia  takes the  Command of General Wedel's  Corps.....
     Battle of Cunersdorf..... Advantages gained by the Prussians
     in Saxony..... Prince Henry surprises General Vehla.....
     General Finck, with his whole Corps of Prussians, surrounded
     and taken by the Austrian General..... Disaster of the
     Prussian General Diercke..... Conclusion of the
     Campaign..... Arret of the Evangelical Body at Ratisbon.....
     The French Ministry stop Payment..... The States-General
     send over Deputies to England..... Memorial presented to the
     States by Major-General Yorke..... A counter Memorial
     presented by the French Minister..... Death of the King of
     Spain..... He is succeeded by his brother Don Carlos, who
     makes a remarkable Settlement..... Detection   and
     Punishment of the Conspirators at Lisbon..... Session opened
     in England..... Substance of the Addresses..... Supplies
     granted..... Ways and Means, Annuities, &c....... Bills for
     granting several Duties on Malt, &c...... Petitions for and
     against the Prohibition of the Malt Distillery.....
     Opposition   to   the   Bill for  preventing the  excessive
     Use   of Spirituous Liquors..... Bill for continuing the
     Importation of Irish Beef..... Attempt to establish a
     Militia in Scotland..... Further Regulations relative to the
     Militia of England..... Bill for removing the Powder
     Magazine from Greenwich..... Act for improving the Streets
     of London..... Bill relative to the Sale of Fish in London
     and Westminster..... New Act for ascertaining the
     Qualifications of Members of Parliament..... Act for
     consolidating the Annuities granted in 1759..... Bill for
     securing the Payment of Prize and Bounty Money appropriated
     for the Use of Greenwich Hospital..... Act in Favour of
     George Keith, late Earl Marshal of Scotland..... Session
     closed

SIEGE OF MADRAS.

While the arms of Great Britain triumphed in Europe and America, her interest was not suffered
to languish in other parts of the world. This was the season of ambition and activity, in which
every separate armament, every distinct corps, and individual officer, seemed to exert themselves
with the most eager appetite of glory. The East Indies, which in the course of the preceding
year had been the theatre of operations carried on with various success, exhibited nothing
now but a succession of trophies to the English commanders. The Indian transactions of the
last year were interrupted at that period when the French general, Lally, was employed in making
preparations for the siege of Madras. In the month of October he had marched into Arcot without
opposition; and in the beginning of December, he advanced towards Madras. On the twelfth he
marched over Choultry plain, in three divisions, cannonaded by the English artillery with considerable
effect, and took post at Egmore and St. Thome. Colonel Laurence, who commanded the garrison
of Madras, retired to the island, in order to prevent the enemy from taking possession of the
island bridge; and at the same time ordered the posts to be occupied in the Blacktown, or suburbs
of Madras. In the morning of the fourteenth, the enemy marched with their whole force to attack
this place; the English detachments retreated into the garrison; and within the hour a grand
sally was made, under the command of colonel Draper, a gallant officer, who signalized himself
remarkably on this occasion. He attacked the regiment of Lorrain with great impetuosity; and
in all probability would have beat them off, had they not been sustained by the arrival of
a fresh brigade. After a very warm dispute, in which many officers and a great number of men
were killed on each side, colonel Draper was obliged to retreat, not altogether satisfied with
the conduct of his grenadiers. As the garrison of Madras was not very numerous, nothing further
was attempted on their side without the works. In the meantime, the enemy used all their diligence
in erecting batteries against the fort and town; which being opened on the sixth day of January,
they maintained a continual discharge of shot and shells for twenty days, advancing their trenches
all the time under cover of this fire, until they reached the breast of the glacis. There they
erected a battery of four pieces of cannon, and opened it on the last day of the month; but
for five days successively they were obliged to close their embrasures by the superior fire
of the fort, and at length to abandon it entirely: nevertheless, they still maintained a severe
fire from the first grand battery, which was placed at the distance of four hundred and fifty
yards from the defences. This artillery was so well served, as to disable twenty-six pieces
of cannon, three mortars, and effect an inconsiderable breach. Perhaps they might have had
more success, had they battered in breach from the beginning; but M. Lally, in order to intimidate
the inhabitants, had cruelly bombarded the town, and demolished the houses: he was, however,
happily disappointed in his expectation by the wise and resolute precautions of governor Pigot;
by the vigilance, conduct, and bravery of the colonels Laurence and Draper, seconded by the
valour and activity of major Brereton, and the spirit of the inferior officers. The artillery
of the garrison was so well managed, that from the fifth day of February, the fire of the enemy
gradually decreased from twenty-three to six pieces of cannon: nevertheless, they advanced
their sap along the sea-side, so as to embrace entirely the north-east angle of the covered
way, from whence their musketry drove the besieged. They likewise endeavoured to open a passage
into the ditch by a mine; but sprung it so injudiciously, that they could make no advantage
of it, as it lay exposed to the fire of several cannon. While these preparations were carried
on before the town, major Caillaud and captain Preston, with a body of sepoys, some of the
country horse, and a few Europeans drawn from the English garrisons of Trichinopoly and Chingalaput,
hovered at the distance of a few miles, blocking up the roads in such a manner that the enemy
were obliged, four several times, to send large detachments against them, in order to open
the communication: thus the progress of the siege was in a great measure retarded. On the sixteenth
day of February, in the evening, the Queenborough ship of war, commanded by captain Kempenfeldt,
and the company's ship the Revenge, arrived in the road of Madras, with a reinforcement of
six hundred men belonging to colonel Draper's regiment, and part of them was immediately disembarked.
From the beginning of the siege the enemy had discovered a backwardness in the service, very
unsuitable to their national character. They were ill supplied by their commissaries and contractors:
they were discouraged by the obstinate defence of the garrison, and all their hope of success
vanished at the arrival of this reinforcement. After a brisk fire, they raised the siege that
very night, abandoning forty pieces of cannon; and having destroyed the powder-mills at Egmore,
retreated to the territory of Arcot. [515] [See note 4 A, at the end of this Vol.]

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

SUCCESS OF COLONEL FORDE.

M. Lally having weakened his forces that were at Masalipatam, under the conduct of the marquis
de Conflans, in order to strengthen the army with which he undertook the siege of Madras, the
rajah of Vizanapore drove the French garrison from Vizagapatam, and hoisted English colours
in the place. The marquis having put his troops in motion to revenge this insult, the rajah
solicited succour from colonel Clive at Calcutta; and, with the consent of the council, a body
of troops was sent under the command of colonel Forde to his assistance. They consisted of
five hundred Europeans, including a company of artillery, and sixteen hundred sepoys; with
about fifteen pieces of cannon, one howitzer, and three mortars. The forces of Conflans were
much more considerable. On the twentieth day of October colonel Forde arrived at Vizagapatam,
and made an agreement with the rajah, who promised to pay the expense of the expedition, as
soon as he should be put in possession of Rajamundry, a large town and fort possessed by the
French. It was stipulated that he should have all the inland country belonging to the Indian
powers in the French interest, and at present in arms; and that the English company should
retain all the conquered sea-coast from Vizagapatam to Masulipatam. On the first of November
colonel Forde proceeded on his march; and on the third joined the rajah's army, consisting
of between three and four thousand men. On the third of December, they came in sight of the
enemy, near the village of Golapool; but the French declining battle, the colonel determined
to draw them from their advantageous situation, or march round and get between them and Rajamundry.
On the seventh, before day-break, he began his march, leaving the rajah's forces on their ground;
but the enemy beginning to cannonade the Indian forces, he, at the request of the rajah, returned
and took them under his protection. Then they marched together to the village of Colapool,
and halted on a small plain about three miles from their encampment. About nine he formed the
line of battle. About ten the enemy were drawn up, and began the cannonade. The firing on both
sides having continued about forty minutes, the enemy's line advanced to the charge with great
resolution; and were so warmly received, that, after several spirited efforts, at eleven they
gave way, and retreated in disorder towards Rajamundry. During this conflict the rajah's forces
stood as idle spectators, nor could their horse be prevailed upon to pursue the fugitives.
The victory cost the English forty-four Europeans killed and wounded, including two captains
and three lieutenants. The French lost above three times the number, together with their whole
camp-baggage, thirty-two pieces of cannon, and all their ammunition. A great number of black
forces fell on both sides. The marquis de Conflans did not remain at Rajamundry, but proceeded
to Masulipatam; while captain Knox, with a detachment from the English army, took possession
of the fort of Rajamundry, which is the barrier and key to the country of Vizagapatam. This
was delivered to the rajah on his paying the expense of the expedition; and captain Knox being
detached with a battalion of sepoys, took possession of the French factory at Narsipore. This
was also the fate of a small fort at Coucate, which surrendered to captain Maclean, after having
made an obstinate defence. In the meantime, however, the French army of observation made shift
to retake Rajamundry, where they found a considerable quantity of money, baggage and effects,
belonging to English officers.

Colonel Forde advancing to the neighbourhood of Masulipatam, the marquis de Conflans with his
forces retired within the place, which on the seventh day of March was invested. By the seventh
day of April the ammunition of the besiegers being almost expended, colonel Forde determined
to give the assault, as two breaches were already made, and made his disposition accordingly.
The attack was begun in the night, and the assailants arrived at the ditch before they were
discovered. But here they underwent a terrible discharge of grape-shot and musquetry; notwithstanding
which they entered the breaches and drove the enemy from bastion to bastion. At length, the
marquis de Conflans sent an officer to demand quarter for the garrison, which was granted as
soon as he ordered his men to cease firing. Thus, with about three hundred and forty European
soldiers, a handful of seamen, and seven hundred sepoys, colonel Forde took by assault the
strong town of Masulipatam, garrisoned by five hundred and twenty-one Europeans, two thousand
and thirty-nine Caffres, Topasses, and sepoys; and here he found above one hundred and fifty
pieces of cannon, with a great quantity of ammunition. Salabatzing, the suba of De-can, perceiving
the success of the English here as well as at Madras, being sick of his French alliance, and
in dread of his brother Nizam Allée, who had set up a separate interest, and taken the field
against him, made advances to the company, with which he forthwith concluded a treaty to the
following effect:--"The whole of the circar of Masulipatam shall be given to the English company.
Salabatzing will not suffer the French to have a settlement in this country, nor keep them
in his service, nor give them any assistance. The English, on their part, will not assist nor
give protection to the suba's enemies."--In a few clays after Masulipatam was reduced, two
ships arrived in the road with a reinforcement of four hundred men to the marquis de Conflans;
but, understanding the fate of the place, made the best of their way to Ganjam.

SURAT TAKEN BY THE ENGLISH.

The merchants residing at Surat, finding themselves exposed to numberless dangers, and every
species of oppression, by the sidee who commanded the castle on one hand, by the governor of
the city on the other, and by the Mahrattas, who had a claim to a certain share of the revenue,
made application to the English presidency at Bombay, desiring they would equip an expedition
for taking possession of the castle and tanka, and settle the government of the city upon Pharass
Cawn, who had been naib or deputy-governor under Meah Atchund, and regulated the police to
the satisfaction of the inhabitants. The presidency embraced the proposal: admiral Pococke
spared two of his ships for this service. Eight hundred and fifty men, artillery and infantry,
with fifteen hundred sepoys, under the command of captain Richard Maitland, of the royal regiment
of artillery, were embarked on board the company's armed vessels commanded by captain Watson,
who sailed on the ninth of February. On the fifteenth they were landed at a place called Dentiloury,
about nine miles from Surat; and here they were encamped for refreshment: in two days he advanced
against the French garden, in which a considerable number of the sidee's men were posted, and
drove them from thence after a very obstinate dispute. Then he erected a battery, from which
he battered the wall in breach: but this method appearing tedious, he called a council of war,
composed of the land and sea-officers, and laid before them the plan of a general attack, which
was accordingly executed next morning. The company's grab, and the bomb-ketches, being warped
up the river in the night, were ranged in a line of battle opposite to the Bundar, which was
the strongest fortification that the enemy possessed; and under the fire of these the troops
being landed, took the Bundar by assault. The outward town being thus gained, he forthwith
began to bombard the inner town and castle with such fury, that next morning they both surrendered,
on condition of being allowed to inarch out with their effects; and captain Maitland took possession
without further dispute. Meah Atchund was continued governor of Surat, and Pharass Cawn was
appointed naib. The artillery and ammunition found in the castle were secured for the company,
until the mogul's pleasure was known; and in a little time a phirmaund, or grant, arrived from
Delhi, appointing the English company admiral to the mogul; so that the ships and stores belonged
to them of course, as part of the tanka; and they were now declared legal possessors of the
castle. This conquest, which cost about two hundred men, including a few officers, was achieved
with such expedition, that captain Watson returned to Bombay by the ninth day of April.

The main body of the English forces, which had been centered at Madras, for the preservation
of that important settlement, took the field after the siege was raised, and possessed themselves
of Conjeveram, a place of great consequence; which, with the fort of Schengelpel, commanded
all the adjacent country, and secured the British possessions to the northward. M. Lally, sensible
of the importance of the post, took the same route in order to dislodge them; but finding all
his attempts ineffectual, he retired towards Wandewash, where his troops were put into quarters
of cantonment. No other operations ensued till the month of September; when major Brere-ton,
who commanded the English forces, being joined by major Gordon with three hundred men of colonel
Coote's battalion, resolved to attack the enemy in his turn. On the fourteenth day of the month
he began his march from Conjeveram for Wandewash, at the head of four hundred Europeans, seven
thousand sepoys, seventy European and three hundred black horse, with fourteen pieces of artillery.
In his march he invested and took the fort of Trivitar; from whence he proceeded to the village
of Wandewash, where the French, to the number of one thousand, were strongly encamped under
the guns of a fort, commanded by a rajah, mounting twenty cannon, under the direction of a
French gunner. On the thirteenth day of September, at two in the morning, the English attacked
the village in three different places, and drove them from it after a very obstinate dispute;
but this advantage they were not able to maintain. The black pioneers ran away during the attack,
so that proper traverses could not be made in the streets; and at day-break the fort poured
in upon them a prodigious discharge of grape-shot with considerable effect. The enemy had retired
to a dry ditch, which served as an intrenchment, from whence they made furious sallies; and
a body of three hundred European horse were already in motion, to fall upon and complete their
confusion. In this emergency, they retired in disorder; and might have been entirely ruined,
had not the body of reserve effectually covered their retreat: yet this could not be effected
without the loss of several officers, and above three hundred men killed and wounded. After
this mortifying check, they encamped a few days in sight of the fort, and, the rainy season
setting in, returned to Conjeveram. The fort of Wandewash was afterwards garrisoned by French
and sepoys; and the other forces of the enemy were assembled by brigadier-general de Bussy,
at Arcot.

ADMIRAL POCOCKE DEFEATS MONSIEUR D'APCHE.

During these transactions by land, the superiority at sea was still disputed between the English
and French admirals. On the first day of September, vice-admiral Pococke sailed from Madras
to the southward, in quest of the enemy, and next day descried the French fleet, consisting
of fifteen sail, standing to the northward. He forthwith threw out the signal for a general
chase, and stood towards them with all the sail he could carry; but the wind abating, he could
not approach near enough to engage. During the three succeeding days, he used his utmost endeavours
to bring them to a battle, which they still declined, and at last they disappeared. He then
directed his course to Pondicherry, on the supposition that they were bound to that harbour;
and on the eighth day of the month perceived them standing to the southward: but he could not
bring them to an engagement till the tenth, when M. d'Apché, about two in the afternoon, made
the signal for battle, and the cannonading began without further delay. The British squadron
did not exceed nine ships of the line; the enemy's fleet consisted of eleven; but they had
still a greater advantage in number of men and artillery. Both squadrons fought with great
impetuosity till about ten minutes after four, when the enemy's rear began to give way: this
example was soon followed by their centre; and finally the van, with the whole squadron, bore
to the south-south-east, with all the canvass they could spread. The British squadron was so
much damaged in their masts and rigging, that they could not pursue; so that M. d'Apché retreated
at his leisure unmolested. On the fifteenth, admiral Pococke returned to Madras, where his
squadron being repaired by the twenty-sixth, he sailed again to Pondicherry, and in the road
saw the enemy lying at anchor in line of battle. The wind being off shore, he made the line
of battle a-head, and for some time continued in this situation. At length the French admiral
weighed anchor, and came forth; but instead of bearing down upon the English squadron, which
had fallen to leeward, he kept close to the wind, and stretched away to the southward. Admiral
Pococke finding him averse to another engagement, and his own squadron being in no condition
to pursue, he, with the advice of his captains, desisted, and measured back his course to Madras.
On the side of the English, above three hundred men were killed in the engagement, including
captain Miche, who commanded the Newcastle, captain Gore of the marines, two lieutenants, a
master gunner, and boatswain: the captains Somerset and Brereton, with about two hundred and
fifty men, were wounded; and many of the ships considerably damaged. The loss of the enemy
must have been much more considerable, because the English in battle always fire at the body
of the ship; because the French squadron was crowded with men; because they gave way, and declined
a second engagement; and, finally, because they now made the best of their way to the island
of Mauritius, in order to be refitted, having on board general Lally and some other officers.
Thus they left the English masters of the Indian coast; superiority still more confirmed by
the arrival of rear-admiral Cornish, with four ships of the line, who had set sail from England
in the beginning of the year, and joined admiral Pococke at Madras on the eighteenth day of
October.

HOSTILITIES OF THE DUTCH.

The French were not the only enemies with whom the English had to cope in the East Indies.
The great extension of their trade in the kingdom of Bengal, had excited the envy and avarice
of the Dutch factory, who possessed a strong fort at Chinchura, on the river of Bengal; and
resolved, if possible, to engross the whole saltpetre branch of commerce. They had, without
doubt, tampered with the new suba, who lay under such obligations to the English, and probably
secured his connivance. Their scheme was approved by the governor of Batavia, who charged himself
with the execution of it; and, for that purpose, chose the opportunity when the British squadron
had retired to the coast of Malabar. On pretence of reinforcing the Dutch garrisons in Bengal,
he equipped an armament of seven ships, having on board five hundred European troops, and six
hundred Malayese, under the command of colonel Russel. This armament having touched at Negapatam,
proceeded up the bay, and arrived in the river of Bengal about the beginning of October. Colonel
Clive, who then resided at Calcutta, had received information of their design, which he was
resolved, at all events, to defeat. He complained to the suba; who, upon such application,
could not decently refuse an order to the director and council of Hughley, implying that this
armament should not proceed up the river. The colonel, at the same time, sent a letter to the
Dutch commodore, intimating that, as he had received intimation of their design, he could not
allow them to land forces, and march to Chinchura. In answer to this declaration, the Dutch
commodore, whose whole fleet had not yet arrived, assured the English commander that he had
no intention to send any forces to Chinchura; and begged liberty to land some of his troops
for refreshment--a favour that was granted, on condition that they should not advance. Notwithstanding
the suba's order, and his own engagement to this effect, the rest of the ships were no sooner
arrived, than he proceeded up the river to the neighbourhood of Tannah-fort, where his forces
being disembarked, began their march to Chinchura. In the meantime, by way of retaliating the
affront he pretended to have sustained in being denied a passage to their own factory, he took
several small vessels on the river belonging to the English company; and the Calcutta Indiaman,
commanded by captain Wilson, homeward-bound, sailing down the river, the Dutchman gave him
to understand, that if he presumed to pass he would sink him without further ceremony. The
English captain seeing them run out their guns as if really resolved to put their threats in
execution, returned to Calcutta, where two other India ships lay at anchor, and reported his
adventure to colonel Clive, who forthwith ordered the three ships to prepare for battle, and
attack the Dutch armament. The ships being properly manned, and their sides lined with saltpetre,
they fell down the river, and found the Dutch squadron drawn up in a line of battle, in order
to give them a warm reception, for which indeed they seemed well prepared; for three of them
were mounted with thirty-six guns each, three of them with twenty-six, and the seventh carried
sixteen. The duke of Dorset, commanded by captain Forrester, being the first that approached
them, dropped anchor close to their line, and began the engagement with a broadside, which
was immediately returned. A dead calm unfortunately intervening, this single ship was for a
considerable time exposed to the whole fire of the enemy; but a small breeze springing up,
the Calcutta and the Hard wick advanced to her assistance, and a severe fire was maintained
on both sides, till two of the Dutch ships, slipping their cables, bore away, and a third was
driven ashore. Their commodore, thus weakened, after a few broadsides struck his flag to captain
Wilson, and the other three followed his example. The victory being thus obtained, without
the loss of one man on the side of the English, captain Wilson took possession of the prizes,
the decks of which were strewed with carnage, and sent the prisoners to colonel Clive at Calcutta.
The detachment of troops which they had landed, to the number of eleven hundred men, was not
more fortunate in their progress. Colonel Clive no sooner received intelligence that they were
in full march to Chinchura, than he detached colonel Forde with five hundred men from Calcutta,
in order to oppose and put a stop to their march at the French gardens. He accordingly advanced
to the northward, and entered the town of Chandernagore, where he sustained the fire of a Dutch
party sent out from Chinchura to join and conduct the expected reinforcement. These being routed
and dispersed, after a short action, colonel Forde in the morning proceeded to a plain in the
neighbourhood of Chinchura, where he found the enemy prepared to give him battle on the twenty-fifth
day of November. They even advanced to the charge with great resolution and activity; but found
the fire of the English artillery and battalion so intolerably hot, that they soon gave way,
and were totally defeated. A considerable number were killed, and the greater part of those
who survived the action were taken prisoners. During this contest, the nabob, at the head of
a considerable army, observed a suspicious neutrality; and in all likelihood would have declared
for the Dutch had they proved victorious, as he had reason to believe they would, from their
great superiority in number. But fortune no sooner determined in favour of the English, than
he made a tender of his service to the victor, and even offered to reduce Chinchura with his
own army. In the meantime, proposals of accommodation being sent to him by the directors and
council of the Dutch factory at Chinchura, a negotiation ensued, and a treaty was concluded
to the satisfaction of all parties. Above three hundred of the prisoners entered into the service
of Great Britain; the rest embarked on board their ships, which were restored as soon as the
peace was ratified, and set out on their return for Batavia. After all, perhaps, the Dutch
company meant nothing more than to put their factory of Chinchura on a more respectable footing;
and, by acquiring greater weight and consequence among the people of the country than they
formerly possessed, the more easily extend their commerce in that part of the world. At any
rate, it will admit of a dispute among those who profess the law of nature and nations, whether
the Dutch company could be justly debarred the privilege of sending a reinforcement to their
own garrisons. Be that as it will, the ships were not restored until the factory at Chinchura
had given security to indemnify the English for the damage they had sustained on this occasion.

COLONEL COOTE TAKES WANDEWASH.

The success of the English army was still more conspicuous on the coast of Coromandel. The
governor and council of Madras having received information that the French general, Lally,
had sent a detachment of his army to the southward, taking Syringham, and threatened Trichinopoly
with a siege, it was determined that colonel Coote, who had lately arrived from England, should
take the field, and endeavour to make a diversion to the southward. He accordingly began his
march at the head of seventeen hundred Europeans, including cavalry, and three thousand blacks,
with fourteen pieces of cannon and one howitzer. On the twenty-seventh day of November, he
invested the fort of Wandewash: having made a practicable breach, the garrison, consisting
of near nine hundred men, surrendered prisoners of war; and he found in the place forty-nine
pieces of cannon, with a great quantity of ammunition. Then he undertook the siege of Carangoly,
a fortress commanded by colonel O'Kennely, at the head of one hundred Europeans, and five hundred
sepoys. In a few days he dismounted the greater part of their guns; and they submitted, on
condition that the Europeans should be allowed to march out with the honours of war, but the
sepoys were disarmed and dismissed.

General Lally, alarmed at the progress of this brave, vigilant, and enterprising officer, assembled
all his forces at Arcot, to the number of two thousand two hundred Europeans, including horse;
three hundred Caffres, and ten thousand black troops, or sepoys; with five-and-twenty pieces
of cannon. Of these he assumed the command in person; and on the tenth day of January began
his march in order to recover Wandewash. Colonel Coote, having received intelligence on the
twelfth that he had taken possession of Conjeveram, endeavoured by a forced march to save the
place, which they accordingly abandoned at his approach, and pursuing their march to Wandewash,
invested the fort without delay. The English commander passed the river Palla, in order to
follow the same route; and, on the twenty-first day of the month, understanding that a breach
was already made, resolved to give them battle without further delay. The cavalry being formed,
and supported by five companies of sepoys, he advanced against the enemy's horse, which being
at the same time galled by two pieces of cannon, retired with precipitation. Then colonel Coote,
having taken possession of a tank which they had occupied, returned to the line, which was
by this time formed in order of battle. Seeing the men in high spirits, and eager to engage,
he ordered the whole army to advance; and by nine in the morning they were within two miles
of the enemy's camp, where they halted about half an hour. During this interval, the colonel
reconnoitred the situation of the French forces, who were very advantageously posted; and made
a movement to the right, which obliged them to alter their disposition. They now advanced,
in their turn, within three quarters of a mile of the English line, and the cannonading began
with great fury on both sides. About noon their European cavalry coming up with a resolute
air to charge the left of the English, colonel Coote brought up some companies of sepoys, and
two pieces of cannon, to sustain the horse, which were ordered to oppose them; and these advancing
on their flank, disturbed them so much that they broke, and were driven by the English cavalry
above a mile from the left, upon the rear of their own army. Meanwhile, both lines continued
advancing to each other; and about one o'clock the firing with small-arms began with great
vivacity. One of the French tumbrils being blown up by an accidental shot, the English commander
took immediate advantage of their confusion. He ordered major Brere-ton to wheel Draper's regiment
to the left, and fall upon the enemy's flank. This service was performed with such resolution
and success, that the left wing of the French was completely routed and fell upon their centre,
now closely engaged with the left of the English. About two in the afternoon their whole line
gave way, and fled towards their own camp; which, perceiving themselves closely pursued, they
precipitately abandoned, together with twenty-two pieces of cannon. In this engagement they
lost about eight hundred men killed and wounded, besides about fifty prisoners, including brigadier-general
de Bussy, the chevalier Godeville, quarter-master-general, lieutenant-colonel Murphy, three
captains, five lieutenants, and some other officers. On the side of the English two hundred
and sixty-two were killed or wounded, and among the former the gallant and accomplished major
Brereton, whose death was a real loss to his country.

COLONEL COOTE CONQUERS ARCOT.

General Lally having retreated with his broken troops to Pondicherry, the baron de Vasserot
was detached towards the same place, with a thousand horse and three hundred sepoys, to ravage
and lay waste the French territory. In the meantime, the indefatigable colonel Coote undertook
the siege of Chilliput, which in two days was surrendered by the chevalier de Tilly; himself
and his garrison remaining prisoners of war. Such also was the fate of fort Timmery; which
being reduced, the colonel prosecuted his march to Arcot, the capital of the province, against
the fort of which he opened his batteries on the fifth day of February. When he had carried
on his approaches within sixty yards of the crest of the glacis, the garrison, consisting of
two hundred and fifty Europeans, and near three hundred sepoys, surrendered as prisoners of
war; and here the English commander found two-and-twenty pieces of cannon, four mortars, and
a great quantity of all kinds of military stores. Thus the campaign was gloriously finished
with the conquest of Arcot; after the French army had been routed and ruined by the diligence
of colonel Coote, whose courage, conduct, and activity, cannot be sufficiently admired. The
reader will perceive, that, rather than interrupt the thread of such an interesting narration,
we have ventured to encroach upon the annals of the year one thousand seven hundred and sixty.

STATE OF THE BELLIGERENT POWERS IN EUROPE.

Having thus followed the British banners through the glorious tracks they pursued in different
parts of Asia and America, we must now convert our attention to the continent of Europe, where
the English arms, in the course of this year, triumphed with equal lustre and advantage. But
first it may be necessary to sketch out the situation in which the belligerent powers were
found at the close of winter. The vicissitudes of fortune with which the preceding campaign
had been chequered, were sufficient to convince every potentate concerned in the war, that
neither side possessed such a superiority in strength or conduct as was requisite to impose
terms upon the other. Battles had been fought with various success; and surprising efforts
of military skill had been exhibited, without producing one event which tended to promote a
general peace, or even engender the least desire of, accommodation. On the contrary, the first
and most violent transports of animosity had by this time subsided into a confirmed habit of
deliberate hatred; and every contending power seemed more than ever determined to protract
the dispute; while the neutral states kept aloof, without expressing the least desire of interposing
their mediation. Some of them were restrained by considerations of conveniency; and others
waited in suspense for the death of the Spanish monarch, as an event which, they imagined,
would be attended with very important consequences in the southern parts of Europe. With respect
to the maintenance of the war, whatever difficulties might have arisen in settling funds to
support the expense, and finding men to recruit the different armies, certain it is all these
difficulties were surmounted before the opening of the campaign. The court of Vienna, though
hampered by the narrowness of its finances, still found resources in the fertility of its provinces,
in the number and attachment of its subjects, who more than any other people in Europe acquiesce
in the dispositions of their sovereign; and, when pay cannot be afforded, willingly contribute
free quarters for the subsistence of the army. The czarina, though she complained that the
stipulated subsidies were ill paid, nevertheless persisted in pursuing those favourite aims
which had for some time influenced her conduct; namely, her personal animosity to the king
of Prussia, and her desire of obtaining a permanent interest in the German empire. Sweden still
made a show of hostility against the Prussian monarch, but continued to slumber over the engagements
she had contracted. France, exhausted in her finances, and abridged of her marine commerce,
maintained a resolute countenance; supplied fresh armies for her operations in Westphalia;
projected new schemes of conquest; and cajoled her allies with fair promises, when she had
nothing more solid to bestow. The king of Prussia's dominions were generally drained, or in
the hands of the enemy; but to balance these disadvantages he kept possession of Saxony; and
enjoyed his annual subsidy from Great Britain, which effectually enabled him to maintain his
armies on a respectable footing, and open the campaign with equal eagerness and confidence.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

FRANCKFORT SEIZED BY THE FRENCH.

The Hanoverian army, commanded by prince Ferdinand of Brunswick, was strengthened by fresh
reinforcements from England, augmented with German recruits, regularly paid, and well supplied
with every comfort and convenience which foresight could suggest, or money procure; yet, in
spite of all the precautions that could be taken, they were cut off from some resources which
the French, in the beginning of the year, opened to themselves by a flagrant stroke of perfidy,
which even the extreme necessities of a campaign can hardly excuse. On the second day of January,
the French regiment of Nassau presented itself before the gates of Franckfort-on-the-Maine,
a neutral imperial city; and, demanding a passage, it was introduced, and conducted by a detachment
of the garrison through the city as far as the gate of Saxenhausen, where it unexpectedly halted,
and immediately disarmed the guards. Before the inhabitants could recover from the consternation
into which they were thrown by this outrageous insult, five other French regiments entered
the place; and here their general, the prince de Soubise, established his head-quarters. How
deeply soever this violation of the laws of the empire might be resented by all honest Germans,
who retained affection for the constitution of their country, it was a step from which the
French army derived a very manifest and important advantage; for it secured to them the course
of the Maine and the Upper Rhine; by which they received, without difficulty or danger, every
species of supply from Mentz, Spire, Worms, and even the country of Alsace, while it maintained
their communication with the chain formed by the Austrian forces and the army of the empire.

PROGRESS OF THE HEREDITARY PRINCE OF BRUNSWICK.

The scheme of operation for the ensuing campaign was already formed between the king of Prussia
and prince Ferdinand of Brunswick; and before the armies took the field, several skirmishes
were fought and quarters surprised. In the latter end of February, the prince of Ysembourg
detached major-general Urst with four battalions and a body of horse; who, assembling in Rhotenbourg,
surprised the enemy's quarters in the night between the first and second day of March, and
drove them from Hirchfield, Vacha, and all the Hessian bailiwicks of which they had taken possession;
but the Austrians soon returning in greater numbers, and being supported by a detachment of
French troops from Franckfort, the allies fell back in their turn. In a few days, however,
they themselves retreated again with great precipitation, though they did not all escape. The
hereditary prince of Brunswick, with a body of Prussian hussars, fell upon them suddenly at
Molrichstadt, where he routed and dispersed a regiment of Hohenzollern cuirassiers, and a battalion
of the troops of Wurtzburg. He next day, which was the first of April, advanced with a body
of horse and foot to Meinungen, where he found a considerable magazine, took two battalions
prisoners, and surprised a third posted at Wafungen, after having defeated some Austrian troops
that were on the march to its relief. While the hereditary prince was thus employed, the duke
of Holstein, with another body of the confederates, dislodged the French from the post of Freyingstenau.

PRINCE FERDINAND ATTACKS THE FRENCH.

But the great object was to drive the enemy from Franckfort, before they should receive the
expected reinforcements. Prince Ferdinand of Brunswick being determined upon this enterprise,
assembled all his forces near Fulda, to the amount of forty thousand choice troops, and began
his march on the tenth day of April. On the thirteenth he came in sight of the enemy, whom
he found strongly encamped about the village of Bergen, between Franckfort and Hanau. Their
general, the duke de Broglio, counted one of the best officers in France with respect to conduct
and intrepidity, having received intelligence of the prince's design, occupied this post on
the twelfth; the right of his army being at Bergen, and his centre and flanks secured in such
a manner, that the allies could not make their attack any other way but by the village. Notwithstanding
the advantage of their situation, prince Ferdinand resolved to give them battle, and made his
dispositions accordingly. About ten in the morning, the grenadiers of the advanced guard began
the attack on the village of Bergen with great vivacity, and sustained a most terrible fire
from eight German battalions, supported by several brigades of French infantry. The grenadiers
of the allied army, though reinforced by several battalions under the command of the prince
of Ysembourg, far from dislodging the enemy from the village, were, after a very obstinate
dispute, obliged to retreat in some disorder, but rallied again behind a body of Hessian cavalry.
The allies being repulsed in three different attacks, their general made a new disposition,
and brought up his artillery, with which the village, and different parts of the French line,
were severely cannonaded. They were not slow in retorting an equal fire, which continued till
night, when the allies retreated to Windekin, with the loss of five pieces of cannon, and about
two thousand men, including the prince of Ysembourg, who fell in the action. The French, by
the nature of their situation, could not suffer much; but they were so effectually amused by
the artful disposition of prince Ferdinand, that instead of taking measures to harass him in
his retreat, they carefully maintained their situation, apprehensive of another general attack.
Indeed, they had great reason to be satisfied with the issue of this battle, without risking
in any measure the advantage which they had gained. It was their business to remain quiet until
their reinforcements should arrive, and this plan they invariably pursued. On the other hand,
the allies, in consequence of their miscarriage, were reduced to the necessity of acting upon
the defensive, and encountering a great number of difficulties and inconveniences during great
part of the campaign, until the misconduct of the enemy turned the scale in their favour. In
the meantime, the prince thought proper to begin his retreat in the night towards Fulda, in
which his rear suffered considerably from a body of the enemy's light troops under the command
of M. de Blaisel, who surprised two squadrons of dragoons and a battalion of grenadiers. The
first were taken or dispersed, the last escaped with the loss of their baggage. The allied
army returned to their cantonments about Munster, and the prince began to make preparations
for taking the field in earnest.

While the French enjoyed plenty in the neighbourhood of Dusseldorp and Creveldt, by means of
the Rhine, the allies laboured under a dearth and scarcity of every species of provisions,
because the country which they occupied was already exhausted, and all the supplies were brought
from an immense distance. The single article of forage occasioned such an enormous expense,
as alarmed the administration of Great Britain, who, in order to prevent mismanagement and
fraud for the future, nominated a member of parliament inspector-general of the forage, and
sent him over to Germany in the beginning of the year, with the rank and appointments of a
general officer, that the importance of his character, and the nature of his office, might
be a check upon those who were suspected of iniquitous appropriations. This gentleman is said
to have met with such a cold reception, and so many mortifications in the execution of his
office, that he was in a very little time sick of his employment. An inquiry into the causes
of his reception, and of the practices which rendered it necessary to appoint such a superintendent,
may be the province of some future historian, when truth may be investigated freely, without
any apprehension of pains and penalties.

RETREAT OF PRINCE FERDINAND.

While great part of the allied army remained in cantonments about Munster, the French armies
on the Upper and Lower Rhine, being put in motion, joined on the third day of June near Marburgh,
under the command of the mareschal de Contades, who advanced to the northward, and fixed his
head-quarters at Corbach, from whence he detached a body of light troops to take possession
of Cassel, which, at his approach, was abandoned by general Imhoff. The French army being encamped
at Stadtberg, the duke de Broglio, who commanded the right wing, advanced from Cassel into
the territories of Hanover, where he occupied Gottin-gen without opposition; while the allied
army assembled in the neighbourhood of Lipstadt, and encamped about Soest and Werle. Prince
Ferdinand, finding himself inferior to the united forces of the enemy, was obliged to retire
as they advanced, after having left strong garrisons in Lipstadt, Retberg, Munster, and Minden.
These precautions, however, seemed to produce little effect in his favour. Retberg was surprised
by the duke de Broglio, who likewise took Minden by assault, and made general Zastrow, with
his garrison of fifteen hundred men, prisoners of war, a misfortune considerably aggravated
by the loss of an immense magazine of hay and corn, which fell into the hands of the enemy.
They likewise made themselves masters of Munster, invested Lipstadt, and all their operations
were hitherto crowned with success. The regency of Hanover, alarmed at their progress, resolved
to provide for the worst, by sending their chancery and most valuable effects to Stade, from
whence, in case of necessity, they might be conveyed by sea to England.

In the meantime they exerted all their industry in pressing men for recruiting and reinforcing
the army under prince Ferdinand, who still continued to retire; and on the eleventh day of
July removed his headquarters from Osnabruck to Bompte, near the Weser. Here having received
advice that Minden was taken by the French, he sent forward a detachment to secure the post
of Soltznau on that river, where on the fifteenth he encamped.

ANIMOSITY BETWEEN PRINCE FERDINAND AND THE BRITISH COMMANDER.

The general of the allied army had for some time exhibited marks of animosity towards lord
George Sackville, the second in command, whose extensive understanding, penetrating eye, and
inquisitive spirit, could neither be deceived, dazzled, nor soothed into tame acquiescence.
He had opposed, with all his influence, a design of retiring towards the frontiers of Brunswick
in order to cover that country. He supported his opposition by alleging, that it was the enemy's
favourite object to cut off their communication with the Weser and the Elbe, in which, should
they succeed, it would be found impossible to transport the British troops to their own country,
which was at that time threatened with an invasion. He, therefore, insisted on the army's retreating,
so as to keep the communication open with Stade, where, in case of emergency, the English troops
might be embarked. By adhering tenaciously to this opinion, and exhibiting other instances
of a prying disposition, he had rendered himself so disagreeable to the commander-in-chief,
that, in all appearance, nothing was so eagerly desired as an opportunity of removing him from
the station he filled.

THE FRENCH ENCAMP AT MINDEN.

Meanwhile the French general advancing to Minden, encamped in a strong situation; having that
town on his right, a steep hill on his left, a morass in front, and a rivulet in rear. The
duke de Broglio commanded a separate body between Hansbergen and Minden, on the other side
of the Weser; and a third, under the duke de Brissac, consisting of eight thousand men, occupied
a strong post by the village of Coveldt, to facilitate the route of the convoy's from Paderborn.
Prince Ferdinand having moved his camp from Soltznau to Petershagen, detached the hereditary
prince on the twenty-eighth day of July to Lubeck, from whence he drove the enemy, and proceeding
to Rimsel, was joined by major-general Dreves, who had retaken Osnabruck, and cleared all that
neighbourhood of the enemy's parties: then he advanced towards Hervorden, and fixed his quarters
at Kirchlinneger, to hamper the enemy's convoys from Paderborn. During these transactions,
prince Ferdinand marched with the allied army in three columns from Petershagen to Hille, where
it encamped, having a morass on the right, the village of Fredewalde on the left, and in front
those of Northemmern and Holtzenhausen. Fifteen battalions and nineteen squadrons, with a brigade
of heavy artillery, were left under the command of general Wangenheim, on the left, behind
the village of Dodenhausen, which was fortified with some redoubts, defended by two battalions.
Colonel Luckner, with the Hanoverian hussars and a brigade of hunters, sustained by two battalions
of grenadiers, was posted between Buckebourg and the Weser, to observe the body of troops commanded
by the duke de Broglio on the other side of the river.

On the last day of July, the mareschal de Contades, resolving to attack the allied army, ordered
the corps of Broglio to repass the river; and, advancing in eight columns, about midnight,
passed the rivulet of Barta, that runs along the morass and falls into the Weser at Minden.
At day-break he formed his army in order of battle: part of it fronting the corps of general
Wangenheim at Dodenhausen, and part of it facing Hille; the two wings consisting of infantry,
and the cavalry being stationed in the centre. At three in the morning the enemy began to cannonade
the prince's quarters at Hille, from a battery of six cannon, which they had raised in the
preceding evening on the dike of Rickhorst. This was probably the first intimation he received
of their intention. He forthwith caused two pieces of artillery to be conveyed to Hille; and
ordered the officer of the piquet-guard posted there to defend himself to the last extremity;
at the same time he sent orders to general Giesen, who occupied Lubeck, to attack the enemy's
post at Eickhorst; and this service was successfully performed. The prince of Anhalt, lieutenant-general
for the day, took possession with the rest of the piquets of the village of Halen, where prince
Ferdinand resolved to support his right. It was already in the hands of the enemy, but they
soon abandoned it with precipitation. The allied army being put in motion, advanced in eight
columns, and occupied the ground between Halen and Hemmern, while general Wangenheim's corps
filled up the space between this last village and Dodenhausen. The enemy made their principal
effort on the left, intending to force the infantry of Wangenheim's corps, and penetrate between
it and the body of the allied army. For this purpose the duke de Broglio attacked them with
great fury; but was severely checked by a battery of thirty cannon, prepared for his reception
by the count de Buckebourg, grand master of the artillery, and served with admirable effect,
under his own eye and direction. About five in the morning both armies cannonaded each other:
at six the fire of musketry began with great vivacity; and the action became very hot towards
the right, where six regiments of English infantry, and two battalions of Hanoverian guards,
not only bore the whole brunt of the French carabineers and gendarmerie, but absolutely broke
every body of horse and foot that advanced to attack them on the left and in the centre. The
Hessian cavalry, with some regiments of Holstein, Prussian, and Hanoverian dragoons, posted
on the left, performed good service. The cavalry on the right had no opportunity of engaging.
They were destined to support the infantry of the third line: they consisted of the British
and Hanoverian horse, commanded by lord George Sackville, whose second was the marquis of Granby.
They were posted at a considerable distance from the first line of infantry, and divided from
it by a scanty wood that bordered on a heath. Orders were sent, during the action, to bring
them up; but whether these orders were contradictory, unintelligible, or imperfectly excited,
they did not arrive in time to have any share in the action [521] [See note 4 B, at the end
of this Vol.]; nor, indeed, were they originally intended for that purpose; nor was there the
least occasion for their service; nor could they have come up in time and condition to perform
effectual service, had the orders been explicit and consistent, and the commander acted with
all possible expedition. Be that as it will, the enemy were repulsed in all their attacks with
considerable loss; at length they gave way in every part, and, about noon, abandoning the field
of battle, were pursued to the ramparts of Minden. In this action they lost a great number
of men, with forty-three large cannon, and many colours and standards; whereas the loss of
the allies was very inconsiderable, as it chiefly fell upon a few regiments of British infantry,
commanded by the major-generals Waldegrave and Kingsley. To the extraordinary prowess of these
gallant brigades, and the fire of the British artillery, which was admirably served by the
captains Philips, Macbean, Drummond, and Foy, the victory was in a great measure ascribed.
The same night the enemy passed the Weser and burnt the bridges over that river. Next day the
garrison of Minden surrendered at discretion; and here the victors found a great number of
French officers wounded.

DUKE DE BRISSAC ROUTED.

At last the mareschal de Contades seemed inclined to retreat through the defiles of Wittekendstein
to Paderborn; but he was fain to change his resolution, in consequence of his having received
advice, that on the very day of his own defeat the duke de Brissac was vanquished by the hereditary
prince in the neighbourhood of Coveldt, so that the passage of the mountains was rendered impracticable.
The duke de Brissac had been advantageously encamped, with his left to the village of Coveldt,
having the Werra in his front, and his right extending to the salt-pits. In this advantageous
situation he was attacked by the hereditary prince and general de Kilmanseg, with such vivacity
and address that his troops were totally routed, with the loss of six cannon, and a considerable
number of men killed, wounded, or taken prisoners. After the battle of Minden, colonel Freytag,
at the head of the light troops, took, in the neighbourhood of Detmold, all the equipage of
the mareschal de Contades, the prince of Condé, and the duke de Brissac, with part of their
military chest and chancery, containing papers of the utmost consequence. [522] [See note 4
C, at the end of this Vol.]

GENEEAL IMHOFF TAKES MUNSTER.

Prince Ferdinand having garrisoned Minden, marched to Hervorden; and the hereditary prince
passed the Weser at Hamelen, in order to pursue the enemy, who retreated to Cassel, and from
thence by the way of Marburg as far as Giessen. In a word, they were continually harassed by
that enterprising prince, who seized every opportunity of making an impression upon their army,
took the greatest part of their baggage, and compelled them to abandon every place they possessed
in Westphalia. The number of his prisoners amounted to fifteen hundred men, besides the garrison
left at Cassel, which surrendered at discretion. He likewise surprised a whole battalion, and
defeated a considerable detachment under the command of M. d'Armentieres. In the meantime,
the allied army advanced in regular marches; and prince Ferdinand, having taken possession
of Cassel, detached general Imhoff with a body of troops to reduce the city of Munster, which
he accordingly began to bombard and cannonade; but d'Armentieres being joined by a fresh body
of troops from the Lower Rhine, advanced to its relief, and compelled Imhoff to raise the siege.
It was not long, however, before this general was also reinforced; then he measured back his
march to Munster, and the French commander withdrew in his turn. The place was immediately
shut up by a close blockade, which, however, did not prevent the introduction of supplies.
The city of Munster being an object of importance, was disputed with great obstinacy. Armentieres
received reinforcements, and the body commanded by Imhoff was occasionally augmented; But the
siege was not formally undertaken till November, when some heavy artillery being brought from
England, the place was regularly invested, and the operations carried on with such vigour,
that in a few days the city surrendered on capitulation.

Prince Ferdinand having possessed himself of the town and castle of Marburg, proceeded with
the army to Neidar-Weimar, and there encamped; while Contades remained at Giessen, on the south
side of the river Lahn, where he was joined by a colleague in the person of the mareschal d'Etrées.
By this time he was become very unpopular among the troops, on account of the defeat at Minden,
which he is said to have charged on the misconduct of Broglio, who recriminated on him in his
turn, and seemed to gain credit at the court of Versailles. While the two armies lay encamped
in the neighbourhood of each other, nothing passed but skirmishes among the light troops, and
little excursive expeditions. The French army was employed in removing their magazines, and
fortifying Giessen, as if their intention was to retreat to Franckfort-on-the-Maine, after
having consumed all the forage, and made a military desert between the Lahn and that river.
In the beginning of November, the duke de Broglio returned from Paris, and assumed the command
of the army, from whence Contades and d'Etrêes immediately retired, with several other general
officers that were senior to the new commander.

The duke of Wirtemberg having taken possession of Fulda, the hereditary prince of Brunswick
resolved to beat up his quarters. For this purpose he selected a body of troops, and began
his march from Marburg early in the morning on the twenty-eighth day of November. Next night
they lay at Augerbauch, where they defeated the volunteers of Nassau; and at one o'clock in
the morning of the thirtieth they marched directly to Fulda: where the duke of Wirtemberg,
far from expecting such a visit, had invited all the fashionable people in Fulda to a sumptuous
entertainment. The hereditary prince having reconnoitred the avenues in person, took such measures,
that the troops of Wirtemberg, who were scattered in small bodies, would have been cut off
if they had not hastily retired into the town, where however they found no shelter. The prince
forced open the gates, and they retreated to the other side of the town, where four battalions
of them were defeated and taken; while the duke himself, with the rest of his forces, filed
off on the other side of the Fulda. Two pieces of cannon, two pair of colours, and all their
baggage, fell into the hands of the victors; and the hereditary prince advanced as far as Rupertenrade,
a place situated on the right flank of the French army. Perhaps this motion hastened the resolution
of the duke de Broglio to abandon Giessen, and fall back to Friedberg, where he established
his head-quarters. The allied army immediately took possession of his camp at Kleinlinnes and
Heuchelam, and seemed to make preparations for the siege of Giessen.

A BODY OF PRUSSIANS MAKE AN INCURSION INTO POLAND.

While both armies remained in this position, the duke de Broglio received the staff as mareschal
of France, and made an attempt to beat up the quarters of the allies. Having called in all
his detachments, he marched up to them on the twenty-fifth day of December; but found them
so well disposed to give him a warm reception, that he thought proper to lay aside his design,
and nothing but a mutual cannonade ensued; then he returned to his former quarters. From. Kleinlinnes
the allied army removed to Corsdoff, where they were cantoned till the beginning of January,
when they fell back as far as Marburg, where prince Ferdinand established his head-quarters.
The enemy had by this time retrieved their superiority, in consequence of the hereditary prince
being detached with fifteen thousand men to join the king of Prussia at Fribourge, in Saxony.
Thus, by the victory at Minden, the dominions of Hanover and Brunswick were preserved, and
the enemy obliged to evacuate that part of Westphalia. Perhaps they might have been driven
to the other side of the Ehine, had not the general of the allies been obliged to weaken his
army for the support of the Prussian monarch, who had met with divers disasters in the course
of this campaign. It was not to any relaxation or abatement of his usual vigilance and activity,
that this warlike prince owed the several checks he received. Even in the middle of winter,
his troops under general Manteuffel acted with great spirit against the Swedes in Pomerania.
They made themselves masters of Damgarten, and several other places which the Swedes had garrisoned;
and the frost setting in, those who were quartered in the isle of Useclom passed over the ice
to Wolgast, which they reduced without much difficulty. They undertook the sieges of Demmen
and Anclam at the same time; and the garrisons of both surrendered themselves prisoners of
war, to the number of two thousand seven hundred men, including officers. In Demmen they found
four-and-twenty pieces of cannon, with a large quantity of ammunition. In Anclam there was
a considerable magazine, with six-and-thirty cannon, mortars, and howitzers. A large detachment
under general Knobloch surprised Erfurth, and raised considerable contributions at Gotha, Isenach,
and Fulda; from whence also they conveyed all the forage and provisions to Saxe-Naumberg. In
the latter end of February, the Prussian major-general Wobersnow marched with a strong body
of troops from Glogau in Silesia, to Poland; and, advancing by way of Lissa, attacked the castle
of the prince Sulkowski, a Polish grandee, who had been very active against the interest of
the Prussian monarch. After some resistance he was obliged to surrender at discretion, and
was sent prisoner with his whole garrison to Silesia. From hence Wobersnow proceeded to Posna,
where he made himself master of a considerable magazine, guarded by two thousand cossacks,
who retired at his approach; and having destroyed several others, returned to Silesia. In April,
the fort of Penamunde, in Pomerania, was surrendered to Manteuffel; and about the same time
a detachment of Prussian troops bombarded Schwerin, the capital of Mecklenburgh. Meanwhile
reinforcements were sent to the Russian army in Poland, which in April began to assemble upon
the Vistula. The court of Petersburgh had likewise begun to equip a large fleet, by means of
which the army might be supplied with military stores and provisions; but this armament was
retarded by an accidental fire at Revel, which destroyed all the magazines and materials for
ship-building to an immense value.

PRINCE HENRY PENETRATES into BOHEMIA.

About the latter end of March, the king of Prussia assembled his army at Rhonstock, near Strigau;
and advancing to the neighbourhood of Landshut, encamped at Bolchenhayne. On the other hand,
the Austrian army, under the command of mareschal Daun, was assembled at Munchengratz, in Bohemia;
and the campaign was opened by an exploit of general Beck, who surprised and made prisoners
a battalion of Prussian grenadiers, posted under colonel Duringsheven, at Griefenberg, on the
frontiers of Silesia. This advantage, however, was more than counterbalanced by the activity
and success of prince Henry, brother to the Prussian king, who commanded the army which wintered
in Saxony. About the middle of April, he marched in two columns towards Bohemia, forced the
pass of Peterswalde, destroyed the Austrian magazine at Assig, burned their boats upon the
Elbe, seized the forage and provisions which the enemy had left at Lowositz and Leutmeritz,
and demolished a new bridge which they had built for their convenience. At the same time general
Hulsen attacked the pass of Passberg, guarded by general Reynard, who was taken, with two thousand
men, including fifty officers: then he advanced to Sate, in hopes of securing the Austrian
magazines; but these the enemy consumed, that they might not fall into his hands, and retired
towards Prague with the utmost precipitation.

Prince Henry having happily achieved these adventures, and filled all Bohemia with alarm and
consternation, returned to Saxony, and distributed his troops in quarters of refreshment in
the neighbourhood of Dresden. In a few days, however, they were again put in motion, and marched
to Obelgeburgen; from whence he continued his route through Voightland, in order to attack
the army of the empire in Franconia. He accordingly entered this country by the way of Hoff,
on the seventh of May, and next day sent a detachment to attack general Macguire, who commanded
a body of imperialists at Asch, and sustained the charge with great gallantry: but finding
himself in danger of being overpowered by numbers, he retired in the night towards Egra. The
army of the empire, commanded by the prince de Deux-Ponts, being unable to cope with the Prussian
general in the field, retired from Cullembach to Bamberg, and from thence to Nuremberg, where,
in all probability, they would not have been suffered to remain unmolested, had not prince
Homy been recalled to Saxony. He had already taken Cronach and the castle of Rottenberg, and
even advanced as far as Bamberg, when he received advice that a body of Austrians, under general
Gemmingen, had penetrated into Saxony. This diversion effectually saved the army of the empire,
as prince Henry immediately returned to the electorate, after having laid the bishopric of
Bamberg and the marquisate of Cullembach under contribution, destroyed all the magazines provided
for the imperial army, and sent fifteen hundred prisoners to Leipsic. A party of imperialists,
under count Palfy, endeavoured to harass him in his retreat; but they were defeated near Hoff,
with considerable slaughter: nevertheless, the imperial army, though now reduced to ten thousand
men, returned to Bamberg; and as the Prussians approached the frontiers of Saxony, the Austrian
general, Gemmingen, retired into Bohemia. During all these transactions, the mareschal count
Daun remained with the grand Austrian army at Schurtz, in the circle of Koningsgratz; while
the Prussians commanded by the king in person, continued quietly encamped between Landshut
and Schweidnitz. General Fouquet commanded a large body of troops in the southern part of Silesia;
but these being mostly withdrawn, in order to oppose the Russians, the Austrian general de
Fille, who hovered on the frontiers of Moravia with a considerable detachment, took advantage
of this circumstance; and advancing into Silesia, encamped within sight of Neiss. As mutual
calumny and recriminations of all kinds were not spared on either side, during the progress
of this war, the enemies of the Prussian monarch did not fail to charge him with cruelties
committed at Schwerin, the capital of Mecklenburgh, which his troops had bombarded, plundered
of its archives, cannon, and all its youth fit to carry arms, who were pressed into his service:
he besides taxed the duchy at seven thousand men and a million of crowns, by way of contribution.
He was also accused of barbarity, in issuing an order for removing all the prisoners from Berlin
to Spandau; but this step he justified in a letter to his ministers at foreign courts, declaring
that he had provided for all the officers that were his prisoners the best accommodation, and
permitted them to reside in his capital; that some of them had grossly abused the liberty they
enjoyed, by maintaining illicit correspondence, and other practices equally offensive, which
had obliged him to remove them to the town of Spandau: he desired, however, that the town might
not be confounded with the fortress of that name, from which it was entirely separated, and
in which they would enjoy the same ease they had found at Berlin, though under more vigilant
inspection. His conduct on this occasion, he said, was sufficiently authorized, not only by
the law of nations, but also by the example of his enemies; inasmuch as the empress-queen had
never suffered any of his officers who had fallen into her hands to reside at Vienna; and the
court of Russia had sent some of them as far as Casan. He concluded with saying, that, as his
enemies had let slip no opportunities of blackening his most innocent proceedings, he had thought
proper to acquaint his ministers with his reasons for making this alteration with regard to
his prisoners, whether French, Austrians, or Russians.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

GENERAL WEDEL DEFEATED BY THE RUSSIANS.

In the beginning of June, the king of Prussia, understanding that the Russian army had begun
their march from the Vistula, ordered the several bodies of his troops, under Hulsen and Wobersnow,
reinforced by detachments from his other armies, to join the forces under count Dohna, as general
in chief, and march into Poland. Accordingly, they advanced to Meritz, where the count having
published a declaration [523] [See note 4 D, at the end of this Vol.], he continued his march
towards Posna, where he found the Russian army, under count Soltikoff, strongly encamped, having
in their rear that city and the river Warta, and in their front a formidable intrenchment mounted
with a great number of cannon.

Count Dohna, judging it impracticable to attack them in this situation with any prospect of
success, endeavoured to intercept their convoys to the eastward; but for want of provisions,
was in a little time obliged to return towards the Oder: then the Russians advanced to Zullichaw,
in Silesia. The king of Prussia thinking count Dohna had been rather too cautious, considering
the emergency of his affairs, gave him leave to retire for the benefit of his health, and conferred
his command upon general Wedel, who resolved to give the Russians battle without delay. Thus
determined, he marched against them in two columns, and on the twenty-third day of July attacked
them at Kay, near Zullichaw, where, after a very obstinate engagement, he was repulsed with
great loss, Wobersnow being killed and Manteuffel wounded in the action; and in a few days
the Russians made themselves masters of Franckfort upon the Oder.

By this time the armies of count Daun and the king of Prussia had made several motions. The
Austrians having quitted their camp at Schurtz, advanced towards Zittau in Lusatia, where having
halted a few days, they resumed their march, and encamped at Gorlithayn, between Sudenberg
and Mark-Dissau. His Prussian majesty, in order to observe their motions, marched by the way
of Hertzberg to Lahn, and his vanguard skirmished with that of the Austrians, commanded by
Laudohn, who entered Silesia by the way of Griffenberg. The Austrian general was obliged to
retreat with loss; while the king penetrated into Silesia, that he might be at hand to act
against the Russians, whose progress was now become the chief object of his apprehension. He
no sooner received intimation that Wedel had been worsted, than he marched with a select body
of ten thousand men from his camp in Silesia, in order to take upon him the command of Wedel's
army, leaving the rest of his forces strongly encamped, under the direction of his brother
prince Henry, who had joined him before this event. Count Daun being apprized of the king's
intention, and knowing the Russians were very defective in cavalry, immediately detached a
body of twelve thousand horse to join them, under the command of Laudohn, and these, penetrating
in two columns through Silesia and Lusatia, with some loss, arrived in the Russian camp at
a very critical juncture. Meanwhile the king of Prussia joined general Wedel on the fourth
day of August, at Muhlrose, where he assumed the command of the army; but finding it greatly
inferior to the enemy, he recalled general Finck, whom he had detached some time before, with
a body of nine thousand men, to oppose the progress of the imperialists in Saxony; for when
prince Henry joined his brother in Silesia, the army of the empire had entered that electorate.
Thus reinforced, the number of the king's army at Muhlrose did not exceed fifty thousand, whereas
the Russians were more numerous by thirty thousand. They had chosen a strong camp at the village
of Cunersdorf, almost opposite to Franckfort upon the Oder, and increased the natural strength
of their situation, by intrenchments mounted with a numerous artillery. In other circumstances
it might have been deemed a rash and ridiculous enterprise, to attack such an army under such
complicated disadvantages; but here was no room for hesitation. The king's affairs seemed to
require a desperate effort, and perhaps he was partly impelled by self-confidence and animosity.

BATTLE OF CUNERSDORF.

Having determined to hazard an attack, he made his disposition, and on the twelfth day of August,
at two in the morning, his troops were in motion. The army feeing formed in a wood, advanced
towards the enemy, and about eleven the action was begun with a severe cannonade. This having
produced the desired effect, he charged the left wing of the Russian army with his best troops
formed in columns. After a very obstinate dispute, the enemy's intrenchments were forced with
great slaughter, and seventy pieces of cannon fell into the hands of the Prussians. A narrow
defile was afterwards passed, and several redoubts that covered the village of Cunersdorf were
taken by assault, one after another: one-half of the task was not yet performed; the Russians
made a firm stand at the village, but they were overborne by the impetuosity of the Prussians,
who drove them from post to post up to the last redoubts they had to defend. As the Russians
kept their ground until they were hewn down in their ranks, this success was not acquired without
infinite labour, and a considerable expense of blood. After a furious contest of six hours,
fortune seemed to declare so much in favour of the Prussians, that the king despatched the
following billet to the queen at Berlin:--"Madam, we have driven the Russians from their intrenchments.
In two hours expect to hear of a glorious victory." This intimation was premature, and subjected
the writer to the ridicule of his enemies. The Russians were staggered, not routed. General
Soltikoff rallied his troops, and reinforced his left wing under cover of a redoubt, which
was erected on an eminence called the Jews' Burying-ground, and here they stood in order of
battle, with the most resolute countenance, favoured by the situation, which was naturally
difficult of access, and now rendered almost impregnable by the fortification, and a numerous
artillery, still greatly superior to that of the Prussians. Had the king contented himself
with the advantage already gained, all the world would have acknowledged he had fought against
terrible odds with astonishing prowess, and that he judiciously desisted when he could no longer
persevere, without incurring the imputation of being actuated by frenzy or despair. His troops
had not only suffered severely from the enemy's fire, which was close, deliberate, and well
directed; but they were fatigued by the hard service, and fainting with the heat of the day,
which was excessive. His general officers are said to have reminded him of all these circumstances,
and to have dissuaded him from hazarding an attempt attended with such danger and difficulty,
as even an army of fresh troops could hardly hope to surmount. He rejected this salutary advice,
and ordered his infantry to begin a new attack, which being an enterprise beyond their strength,
they were repulsed with great slaughter. Being afterwards rallied, they returned to the charge;
they miscarried again, and their loss was redoubled. Being thus rendered unfit for further
service, the cavalry succeeded to the attack, and repeated their unsuccessful efforts, until
they were almost broke, and entirely exhausted. At this critical juncture, the whole body of
the Austrian and Russian cavalry, which had hitherto remained inactive, and were therefore
fresh and in spirits, fell in among the Prussian horse with great fury, broke their line at
the first charge, and forcing them back upon the infantry, threw them into such disorder as
could not be repaired. The Prussian army being thus involved in confusion, was seized with
a panic, and in a few minutes totally defeated and dispersed, notwithstanding the personal
efforts of the king, who hazarded his life in the hottest parts of the battle, led on his troops
three times to the charge, had two horses killed under him, and his clothes in several parts
penetrated with musket-balls. His army being routed, and the greater part of his generals either
killed or disabled by wounds, nothing but the approach of night could have saved him from total
ruin. When he abandoned the field of battle, he despatched another billet to the queen, couched
in these terms: "Remove from Berlin with the royal family. Let the archives be carried to Potsdam.
The town may make conditions with the enemy." The horror and confusion which this intimation
produced at Berlin may be easily conceived: horror the more aggravated, as it seized them in
the midst of their rejoicings occasioned by the first despatch; and this was still more dreadfully
augmented, by a subsequent indistinct relation, importing that the army was totally routed,
the king missing, and the enemy in full march to Berlin. The battle of Cunersdorf was by far
the most bloody action which happened since the commencement of hostilities. The carnage was
truly horrible: above twenty thousand Prussians lay dead on the field; and among these general
Putkammer. The generals Seydlitz, Itzenplitz, Hulsen, Finck, and Wedel, the prince of Wirtemberg,
and five major-generals, were wounded. The loss of the enemy amounted to ten thousand. It must
be owned, that if the king was prodigal of his own person, he was likewise very free with the
lives of his subjects. At no time, since the days of ignorance and barbarity, were the lives
of men squandered away with such profusion as in the course of this German war. They were not
only unnecessarily sacrificed in various exploits of no consequence, but lavishly exposed to
all the rigour and distemper of winter campaigns, which were introduced on the continent, in
despite of nature, and in contempt of humanity. Such are the improvements of warriors without
feeling! such the refinements of German discipline! On the day that succeeded the defeat at
Cunersdorf, the king of Prussia, having lost the best part of his army, together with his whole
train of artillery, repassed the Oder, and encamped at Retwin, from whence he advanced to Fustenwalde,
and saw with astonishment the forbearance of the enemy. Instead of taking possession of Berlin,
and overwhelming the wreck of the king's troops, destitute of cannon, and cut off from all
communication with prince Henry, they took no step to improve the victory they had gained.
Laudohn retired with his horse immediately after the battle; and count Soltikoff marched with
part of the Russians into Lusatia, where he joined Daun, and held consultations with that general.
Perhaps the safety of the Prussian monarch was owing to the jealousy subsisting among his enemies.
In all probability, the court of Vienna would have been chagrined to see the Russians in possession
of Brandenburgh, and therefore thwarted their designs upon that electorate. The king of Prussia
had now reason to be convinced, that his situation could not justify such a desperate attack
as that in which he had miscarried at Cunersdorf; for if the Russians did not attempt the reduction
of his capital, now that he was totally defeated, and the flower of his army cut off, they
certainly would not have aspired at that conquest while he lay encamped in the neighbourhood
with fifty thousand veterans, inured to war, accustomed to conquer, confident of success, and
well supplied with provisions, ammunition, and artillery. As the victors allowed him time to
breathe, he improved this interval with equal spirit and sagacity. He re-assembled and refreshed
his broken troops: he furnished his camp with cannon from the arsenal at Berlin, which likewise
supplied him with a considerable number of recruits; he recalled general Kleist, with five
thousand men, from Pome-rania, and in a little time retrieved his former importance.

ADVANTAGES GAINED BY THE PRUSSIANS IN SAXONY.

The army of the empire having entered Saxony, where it reduced Leipsic, Torgau, and even took
possession of Dresden itself, the king detached six thousand men under general Wunch, to check
the progress of the imperialists in that electorate; and perceiving the Russians intended to
besiege Great Glogau, he, with the rest of the army, took post between them and that city,
so as to frustrate their design. While the four great armies, commanded by the king of Prussia,
general Soltikoff, prince Henry, and count Daun, lay encamped in Lusatia, and on the borders
of Silesia, watching the motions of each other, the war was carried on by detachments with
great vivacity. General Wunch having retaken Leipsic, and joined Finck at Rulinbourg, the united
body began their march towards Dresden; and a detachment from the army of the empire, which
had encamped near Dobelia, retired at their approach. As they advanced to Nossin, general Haddick
abandoned the advantageous posts he occupied near Roth-Seemberg; and, being joined by the whole
army of the empire, resolved to attack the Prussian generals, who now encamped at Corbitz near
Meissen. Accordingly, on the twenty-first day of September, he advanced against them, and endeavoured
to dislodge them by a furious cannonade, which was mutually maintained from morning to night,
when he found himself obliged to retire with considerable loss; leaving the field of battle,
with about five hundred prisoners, in the hands of the Prussians.

GENERAL FINCK SURROUNDED AND TAKEN.

This advantage was succeeded by another exploit of prince Henry, who, on the twenty-third day
of the month, quitted his camp at Hornsdorf, near Gorlitz; and, after an incredible march of
eleven German miles, by the way of Rothenberg, arrived about five in the afternoon at Hoyerswerda,
where he surprised a body of four thousand men, commanded by general Vehla, killed six hundred,
and made twice that number prisoners; including the commander himself. After this achievement
he joined the corps of Finck and Wunch; while mareschal Daun likewise abandoned his camp in
Lusatia, and made a forced march to Dresden, in order to frustrate the prince's supposed design
on that capital. The Russians, disappointed in their scheme upon Glogau, had repassed the Oder
at Neusalze, and were en? camped at Fraustadt; general Laudohn, with a body of Austrians, lay
at Sclichtingsheim; and the king of Prussia at Koben; all three on or near the banks of that
river. Prince Henry, perceiving his army almost surrounded by Austrian detachments, ordered
general Finck to drive them from Vogelsang, which they abandoned accordingly; and sent Wunch,
with six battalions and some cavalry, across the Elbe, to join the corps of general Rebentish
at Wittenberg, whither he retired from Duben at the approach of the Austrians. On the twenty-ninth
day of October, the duke d'Aremberg, with sixteen thousand Austrians, decamped from Dammitch,
in order to occupy the heights near Pretsch, and was encountered by general Wunch; who, being
posted on two rising grounds, cannonaded the Austrians on their march with considerable effect;
and the prince took twelve hundred prisoners, including lieutenant-general Gemmington, and
twenty inferior officers, with some cannon, great part of their tents, and a large quantity
of baggage. The duke was obliged to change his route, while Wunch marched from Duben to Rulenburgh;
and general Wassersleben occupied Strehla, where next day the whole army encamped. In this
situation the prince remained till the sixteenth day of November; when, being in danger of
having his communication with Torgau cut off by the enemy, he removed to a strong camp, where
his left flank was covered with that city and the river Elbe; his right being secured by a
wood, and great part of his front by an impassable morass. Here he was reinforced with about
twenty thousand men from Silesia, and joined by the king himself, who forthwith detached general
Finck, with nineteen battalions and thirty-five squadrons, to take possession of the defiles
of Maxen and Ottendorf, with a view to hinder the retreat of the Austrians to Bohemia. This
motion obliged Daun to retire to Plauen; and the king advanced to Wilsdurf, imagining that
he had effectually succeeded in his design. Letters were sent to Berlin and Magdebourg, importing,
that count Daun would be forced to hazard a battle, as he had now no resource but in victory.
Finck had no sooner taken post on the hill near the village of Maxen, than the Austrian general
sent officers to reconnoitre his situation, and immediately resolved to attack him with the
corps de reserve, under the baron de Sincere, which was encamped in the neighbourhood of Dippodeswalda.
It was forthwith divided into four columns, which filed off through the neighbouring woods;
and the Prussians never dreamed of their approach until they saw themselves entirely surrounded.
In this emergency they defended themselves with their cannon and musketry until they were overpowered
by numbers, and their battery was taken; then they retired to another rising ground, where
they rallied, but were driven from eminence to eminence, until, by favour of the night, they
made their last retreat to Falkenhayn. In the meantime, count Daun had made such dispositions,
that at day-break general Finck found himself entirely enclosed, without the least possibility
of escaping, and sent a trumpet to count Daun to demand a capitulation. This was granted in
one single article, importing, that he and eight other Prussian generals, with the whole body
of troops they commanded, should be received as prisoners of war. He was obliged to submit;
and his whole corps, amounting to nineteen battalions and thirty-five squadrons, with sixty-four
pieces of cannon, fifty pair of colours, and twenty-five standards, fell into the hands of
the Austrian generals. This misfortune was the more mortifying to the king of Prussia, as it
implied a censure on his conduct, for having detached such a numerous body of troops to a situation
where they could not be sustained by the rest of the army. On the other hand, the court of
Vienna exulted in this victory, as an infallible proof of Daun's superior talents; and, in
point of glory and advantage, much more than an equivalent for the loss of the Saxon army,
which, though less numerous, capitulated in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six,
after having held out six weeks against the whole power of the Prussian monarch. General Hulsen
had been detached, with about nine battalions and thirty squadrons, to the assistance of Finck;
but he arrived at Klingenberg too late to be of any service; and, being recalled, was next
day sent to occupy the important post of Fribourg.

DISASTER OF THE PRUSSIAN GENERAL DIERCKE.

The defeat of general Finck was not the only disaster which befel the Prussians at the close
of this campaign. General Diercke, who was posted with seven battalions of infantry and a thousand
horse, on the right bank of the Elbe, opposite to Meissen, finding it impracticable to lay
a bridge of pontoons across the river, on account of the floating ice, was obliged to transport
his troops in boats; and when all were passed except himself, with the rear-guard, consisting
of three battalions, he was, on the third day of December, in the morning, attacked by a strong
body of Austrians, and taken, with all his men, after an obstinate dispute. The king of Prussia,
weakened by these two successive defeats that happened in the rear of an unfortunate campaign,
would hardly have been able to maintain his ground at Fribourg, had he not been at this juncture
reinforced by the body of troops under the command of the hereditary prince of Brunswick. As
for Daun, the advantages he had gained did not elevate his mind above the usual maxims of his
cautious discretion. Instead of attacking the king of Prussia, respectable and formidable even
in adversity, he quietly occupied the strong camp at Pirna, where he might be at hand to succour
Dresden in case it should be attacked, and maintain his communication with Bohemia.

CONCLUSION OF THE CAMPAIGN.

By this time the Russians had retired to winter-quarters in Poland; and the Swedes, after a
fruitless excursion in the absence of Manteuffel, retreated to Stralsund and the isle of Rugen.
This campaign, therefore, did not prove more decisive than the last. Abundance of lives were
lost, and great part of Germany was exposed to rapine, murder, famine, desolation, and every
species of misery that war could engender. In vain the confederating powers of Austria, Russia,
and Sweden, united their efforts to crush the Prussian monarch. Though his army had been defeated,
and he himself totally overthrown with great slaughter in the heart of his own dominions; though
he appeared in a desperate situation, environed by hostile armies, and two considerable detached
bodies of his troops were taken or destroyed; yet he kept all his adversaries at bay till the
approach of winter, which proved his best auxiliary, and even maintained his footing in the
electorate of Saxony, which seemed to be the prize contested between him and the Austrian general.
Yet, long before the approach of winter, one would imagine he must have been crushed between
the shock of so many adverse hosts, had they been intent upon closing him in, and heartily
concurred for his destruction; but, instead of urging the war with accumulated force, they
acted in separate bodies, and with jealous eye seemed to regard the progress of each other.
It was not, therefore, to any compunction, or kind forbearance, in the court of Vienna, that
the inactivity of Daun was owing. The resentment of the house of Austria seemed, on the contrary,
to glow with redoubled indignation; and the majority of the Germanic body seemed to enter with
warmth into her quarrel. [526] [See note 4 E, at the end of this Vol.]

ARRET OF THE EVANGELICAL BODY AT RATISBON.

When the protestant states in arms against the court of Vienna were put under the ban of the
empire, the evangelical body, though without the concurrence of the Swedish and Danish ministers,
issued an arrêt at Ratisbon, in the month of November of the last year, and to this annexed
the twentieth article of the capitulation signed by the emperor at his election, in order to
demonstrate that the protestant states claimed nothing but what was agreeable to the constitution.
They declared, that their association was no more than a mutual engagement, by which they obliged
themselves to adhere to the laws without suffering, under any pretext, that the power of putting
under the ban of the empire should reside wholly in the emperor. They affirmed that this power
was renounced, in express terms, by the capitulation: they therefore refused to admit, as legal,
any sentence of the ban deficient in the requisite conditions: and inferred that, according
to law, neither the elector of Brandenburgh, nor the elector of Hanover, nor the duke of Wolfenbuttel,
nor the landgrave of Hesse, nor the count of Lippe-Buckebourg, ought to be proscribed. The
imperial protestant cities having acceded to this arrêt or declaration, the emperor, in a rescript,
required them to retract their accession to the resolution of the evangelic body; which, it
must be owned, was altogether inconsistent with their former accession to the resolutions of
the diet against the king of Prussia. This rescript having produced no effect, the arrêt was
answered in February by an imperial decree of commission carried to the dictature, importing,
that the imperial court could no longer hesitate about the execution of the ban, without infringing
that very article of the capitulation which they had specified: that the invalidity of the
arrêt was manifest, inasmuch as the electors of Brandenburgh and Brunswick, the dukes of Saxe-Gotha
and Brunswick-Wolfenbuttel, and the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel, were the very persons who disturbed
the empire, this, therefore, being an affair in which they themselves were parties, they could
not possibly be qualified to concur in a resolution of this nature; besides, the number of
the other states which had acceded was very inconsiderable: for these reasons, the emperor
could not but consider the resolution in question as an act whereby the general peace of the
empire was disturbed, both by the parties that had incurred the ban, and by the states which
had joined them, in order to support and favour their frivolous pretensions. His imperial majesty
expressed his hope and confidence, that the other electors, princes, and states of the empire,
would vote the said resolution to be null and of no force; and never suffer so small a number
of states, who were adherents of, and abettors to, the disturbers of the empire, to prejudice
the rights and prerogatives of the whole Germanic body; to abuse the name of the associated
states of the Augsburgh confession, in order forcibly to impose a factum entirely repugnant
to the constitution of the empire; to deprive their co-estates of the right of voting freely,
and thereby endeavouring totally to subvert the system of the Germanic body. These remarks
will speak for themselves to the reflection of the unprejudiced reader.

FRENCH MINISTRY STOP PAYMENT.

The implacability of the court of Vienna was equalled by nothing but the perseverance of the
French ministry. Though their numerous army had not gained one inch of ground in Westphalia,
the campaign on that side having ended exactly where it had begun; though the chief source
of their commerce in the West Indies had fallen into the hands of Great Britain, and they had
already laid their account with the loss of Quebec; though their coffers hung with emptiness,
and their confederates were clamorous for subsidies,--they still resolved to maintain the war
in Germany. This was doubtless the most politic resolution to which they could adhere; because
their enemies, instead of exerting all their efforts where there was almost a certainty of
success, kindly condescended to seek them where alone their whole strength could be advantageously
employed, without any great augmentation of their ordinary expense. Some of the springs of
their national wealth were indeed exhausted, or diverted into other channels; but the subjects
declared for a continuation of the war, and the necessities of the state were supplied by the
loyalty and attachment of the people. They not only acquiesced in the bankruptcy of public
credit, when the court stopped payment of the interest on twelve different branches of the
national debt, but they likewise sent in large quantities of plate to be melted down, and coined
into specie, for the maintenance of the war. All the bills drawn on the government by the colonies
were protested to an immense amount, and a stop was put to all the annuities granted at Marseilles
on sums borrowed for the use of the marine. Besides the considerable savings occasioned by
these acts of state-bankruptcy, they had resources of credit among the merchants of Holland,
who beheld the success of Great Britain with an eye of jealousy; and were, moreover, inflamed
against her with the most rancorous resentment, on account of the captures which had been made
of their West India ships by the English cruisers.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE STATES-GENERAL SEND OVER DEPUTIES TO ENGLAND.

In the month of February, the merchants of Amsterdam having received advice that the cargoes
of their West India ships detained by the English, would, by the British courts of judicature,
be declared lawful prizes, as being French property, sent a deputation, with a petition to
the states-general, entreating them to use their intercession with the court of London, representing
the impossibility of furnishing the proofs required, in so short a time as that prescribed
by the British admiralty; and that, as the island of St. Eustatia had but one road, and there
was no other way of taking in cargoes but that of overschippen,* to which the English had objected,
a condemnation of these ships, as legal prizes, would give the finishing stroke to the trade
of the colony.

     * The method called overschippen is that of using French
     boats to load Dutch vessels with the produce of France.

Whatever remonstrances the states-general might have made on this subject to the ministry of
Great Britain, they had no effect upon the proceedings of the court of admiralty, which continued
to condemn the cargoes of the Dutch ships as often as they were proved to be French property;
and this resolute uniformity, in a little time intimidated the subjects of Holland from persevering
in this illicit branch of commerce. The enemies of England in that republic, however, had so
far prevailed, that in the beginning of the year the states of Holland had passed a formal
resolution to equip five-and-twenty ships of war; and orders were immediately despatched to
the officers of the admiralty to complete the armament with all possible expedition. In the
month of April, the states-general sent over to London three ministers-extraordinary, to make
representations, and remove if possible the causes of misunderstanding that had arisen between
Great Britain and the United Provinces. They delivered their credentials to the king with a
formal harangue: they said his majesty would see, by the contents of the letter they had the
honour to present, how ardently their high mightinesses desired to cultivate the sincere friendship
which had so long subsisted between the two nations, so necessary for their common welfare
and preservation; they expressed an earnest wish that they might be happy enough to remove
those difficulties which had for some time struck at this friendship, and caused so much prejudice
to the principal subjects of the republic; who, by the commerce they carried on, constituted
its greatest strength and chief support. They declared their whole confidence was placed in
his majesty's equity, for which the republic had the highest regard; and in the good-will he
had always expressed towards a state which on all occasions had interested itself in promoting
his glory--a state which was the guardian of the precious trust bequeathed by a prince so dear
to his affection. "Full of this confidence (said they), we presume to flatter ourselves that
your majesty will be graciously pleased to listen to our just demands, and we shall endeavour,
during the course of our ministry, to merit your approbation, in strengthening the bonds by
which the two nations ought to be for ever united." In answer to this oration, the king assured
them that he had always regarded their high mightinesses as his best friends. He said, if difficulties
had arisen concerning trade, they ought to be considered as the consequences of a burdensome
war which he was obliged to wage with France. He desired they would assure their high mightinesses,
that he should endeavour, on his part, to remove the obstacles in question; and expressed his
satisfaction that they the deputies were come over with the same disposition.--What representations
these deputies made, further than complaints of some irregularities in the conduct of the British
sea-officers, we cannot pretend to specify; but as the subject in dispute related entirely
to the practice of the courts of judicature, it did not fall properly under the cognizance
of the government, which hath no right to interfere with the administration of justice. In
all probability, the subjects of Holland were by no means pleased with the success of this
negotiation, for they murmured against the English nation without ceasing. They threatened
and complained by turns; and eagerly seized every opportunity of displaying their partiality
in favour of the enemies of Great Britain.

MEMORIAL PRESENTED TO THE STATES BY MAJOR-GENERAL YORKE.

In the month of September, major-general Yorke, the British minister at the Hague, presented
a memorial to the states-general, remonstrating, that the merchants of Holland carried on a
contraband trade in favour of France, by transporting cannon and warlike stores from the Baltic
to Holland, in Dutch bottoms, under the borrowed names of private persons; and then conveying
them by the inland rivers and canals, or through the Dutch fortresses, to Dunkirk and other
places of France. He desired that the king his master might be made easy on that head, by their
putting an immediate stop to such practices, so repugnant to the connexions subsisting by treaty
between Great Britain and the United Provinces, as well as to every idea of neutrality. He
observed, that the attention which his majesty had lately given to their representations against
the excesses of the English privateers, by procuring an act of parliament, which laid them
under proper restrictions, gave him a good title to the same regard on the part of their high
mightinesses. He reminded them that their trading towns felt the good effects of these restrictions;
and that the freedom of navigation which their subjects enjoyed amidst the troubles and distractions
of Europe, had considerably augmented their commerce. He observed, that some return ought to
be made to such solid proofs of the king's friendship and moderation; at least, the merchants,
who were so ready to complain of England, ought not to be countenanced in excesses which would
have justified the most rigorous examination of their conduct. He recalled to their memories
that, during the course of the present war, the king had several times appealed to their high
mightinesses, and to their ministers, on the liberty they had given to carry stores through
the fortresses of the republic for the use of France, to invade the British dominions; and
though his majesty had passed over in silence many of these instances of complaisance to his
enemy, he was no less sensible of the injury; but he chose rather to be a sufferer himself,
than to increase the embarrassment of his neighbours or extend the flames of war. He took notice
that even the court of Vienna had, upon more than one occasion, employed its interest with
their high mightinesses, and lent its name to obtain passes for warlike stores and provisions
for the French troops, under colour of the barrier-treaty, which it no longer observed; nay,
after having put France in possession of Ostend and Nieuport, in manifest violation of that
treaty, and without any regard to the rights which they and the king his master had acquired
in that treaty, at the expense of so much blood and treasure.

A COUNTER-MEMORIAL PRESENTED BY THE FRENCH MINISTER.

This memorial seems to have made some impression on the states-general, as they scrupled to
allow the artillery and stores belonging to the French king to be removed from Amsterdam; but
these scruples vanished entirely on the receipt of a counter-memorial presented by the count
d'Affrey, the French ambassador, who mingled some effectual threats with his expostulation.
He desired them to remember, that, during the whole course of the war, the French king had
required nothing from their friendship that was inconsistent with the strictest impartiality;
and, if he had deviated from the engagements subsisting between him and the republic, it was
only by granting the most essential and lucrative favours to the subjects of their high mightinesses.
He observed, that the English, notwithstanding the insolence of their behaviour to the republic,
had derived, on many occasions, assistance from the protection their effects had found in the
territories of the United Provinces; that the artillery, stores, and ammunition belonging to
Wessel were deposited in their territories, which the Hanoverian army in passing the Rhine
had very little respected; that when they repassed that river, they had no other way of saving
their sick and wounded from the hands of the French, than by embarking them in boats, and conveying
them to places where the French left them unmolested, actuated by their respect for the neutrality
of the republic; that part of their magazines was still deposited in the towns of the United
Provinces, where also the enemies of France had purchased and contracted for very considerable
quantities of gunpowder. He told them that, though these and several other circumstances might
have been made the subject of the justest complaints, the king of France did not think it proper
to require that the freedom and independency of the subjects of the republic should be restrained
in branches of commerce that were not inconsistent with its neutrality, persuaded that the
faith of an engagement ought to be inviolably preserved, though attended with some accidental
and transient disadvantages. He gave them to understand, that the king his master had ordered
the generals of his army carefully to avoid encroaching on the territory of the republic, and
transferring thither the theatre of the war, when h in enemies retreated that way before they
were forced to pass the Ehine. After such unquestionable marks of regard, he said, his king
would have the justest ground of complaint, if, contrary to expectation, he should hear that
the artillery and stores belonging to him were detained at Amsterdam. Thirdly, he declared
that such detention would be construed as a violation of the neutrality; and demanded, in the
name of the king his master, that the artillery and stores should, without delay, be forwarded
to Flanders by the canals of Amsterdam and the inland navigation. This last argument was so
conclusive, that they immediately granted the necessary passports; in consequence of which
the cannon were conveyed to the Austrian Netherlands.

DEATH OF THE KING OF SPAIN.

The powers in the southern parts of Europe were too much engrossed with their own concerns,
to interest themselves deeply in the quarrels that distracted the German empire. The king of
Spain, naturally of a melancholy complexion and delicate constitution, was so deeply affected
with the loss of his queen, who died in the course of the preceding year, that he renounced
all company, neglected all business, and immured himself in a chamber at Villa-Viciosa, where
he gave a loose to the most extravagant sorrow. He abstained from food and rest until his strength
was quite exhausted. He would neither shift himself, nor allow his beard to be shaved; he rejected
all attempts of consolation; and remained deaf to the most earnest and respectful remonstrances
of those who had a right to render their advice. In this case, the affliction of the mind must
have been reinforced by some peculiarity in the constitution. He inherited a melancholy taint
from his father, and this seems to have been dreaded as a family disease; for the infant don
Louis, who likewise resided in the palace of Villa-Viciosa, was fain to amuse himself with
hunting and other diversions, to prevent his being infected with the king's disorder, which
continued to gain ground notwithstanding all the efforts of medicine. The Spanish nation, naturally
superstitious, had recourse to saints and relics; but they seemed insensible to all their devotion.
The king, however, in the midst of all his distress, was prevailed upon to make his will, which
was written by the count de Valparaiso, and signed by the duke de Bejar, high-chancellor of
the kingdom. The exorbitancy of his grief, and the mortifications he underwent, soon produced
an incurable malady, under which he languished from the month of September in the preceding
year till the tenth of August in the present, when he expired. In his will he had appointed
his brother don Carlos, king of Naples, successor to the crown of Spain; and nominated the
queen-dowager as regent of the kingdom until that prince should arrive. Accordingly, she assumed
the reins of government, and gave directions for the funeral of the deceased king, who was
interred with great pomp in the church belonging to the convent of the Visitation at Madrid.

DON CARLOS SUCCEEDS TO THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN.

As the death of this prince had been long expected, so the politicians of Europe had universally
prognosticated that his demise would be attended with great commotions in Italy. It had been
agreed among the subscribing powers to the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, that in case don Carlos
should be advanced in the course of succession to the throne of Spain, his brother don Philip
should succeed him on the throne of Naples; and the duchies of Parma, Placentia, and Guastalla,
which now constituted his establishment, should revert to the house of Austria. The king of
Naples had never acceded to this article; therefore he paid no regard to it on the death of
his elder brother, but retained both kingdoms, without minding the claims of the empress-queen,
who he knew was at that time in no condition to support her pretensions. Thus the German war
proved a circumstance very favourable to his interest and ambition. Before he embarked for
Spain, however, he took some extraordinary steps, which evinced him a sound politician and
sagacious legislator. His eldest son don Philip, who had now attained the thirteenth year of
his age, being found in a state of incurable idiotism [529] [See note 4 F, at the end of this
Vol.], he wisely and resolutely removed him from the succession, without any regard to the
pretended right of primogeniture, by a solemn act of abdication, and the settlement of the
crown of the two Sicilies in favour of his third son don Ferdinand. In this extraordinary act
he observes, that according to the spirit of the treaties of this age, Europe required that
the sovereignty of Spain should be separated from that of Italy, when such a separation could
be effected, without transgressing the rules of justice: that the unfortunate prince-royal
having been destitute of reason and reflection ever since his infancy, and no hope remaining
that he could ever acquire the use of these faculties, he could not think of appointing him
to the succession, how agreeable soever such a disposition might be to nature and his paternal
affection: he was therefore constrained, by the Divine will, to set him aside in favour of
his third son don Ferdinand, whose minority obliged him to vest the management of these realms
in a regency, which he accordingly appointed, after having previously declared his son Ferdinand
from that time emancipated and freed, not only from all obedience to his paternal power, but
even from all submission to his supreme and sovereign authority. He then declared that the
minority of the prince succeeding to the kingdom of the Two Sicilies should expire with the
fifteenth year of his age, when he should act as sovereign, and have the entire power of the
administration. He next established and explained the order of succession in the male and female
line; on condition that the monarchy of Spain should never be united with the kingdoms of the
Two Sicilies. Finally, he transferred and made over to the said don Ferdinand these kingdoms,
with all that he possessed in Italy; and this ordinance, signed and sealed by himself and the
infant don Ferdinand, and countersigned by the counsellors and secretaries of state, in quality
of members of the regency, received all the usual forms of authenticity. Don Carlos having
taken these precautions for the benefit of his third son, whom he left king of Naples, embarked
with the rest of his family on board a squadron of Spanish ships, which conveyed him to Barcelona.
There he landed in the month of October, and proceeded to Madrid; where, as king of Spain,
he was received amid the acclamations of his people. He began his reign, like a wise prince,
by regulating the interior economy of his kingdom; by pursuing the plan adopted by his predecessor;
by retaining the ministry under whose auspices the happiness and commerce of his people had
been extended; and with respect to the belligerent powers, by scrupulously adhering to that
neutrality from whence these advantages were in a great measure derived.

DETECTION AND PUNISHMENT OF THE CONSPIRATORS AT LISBON.

While he serenely enjoyed the blessings of prosperity, his neighbour the king of Portugal was
engrossed by a species of employment, which, of all others, must be the most disagreeable to
a prince of sentiment, who loves his people; namely, the trial and punishment of those conspirators,
by whose atrocious attempt his life had been so much endangered. Among these were numbered
some of the first noblemen of the kingdom, irritated by disappointed ambition, inflamed by
bigotry, and exasperated by revenge. The principal conspirator, don Joseph Mascarenhas and
Lencastre, duke de Aveiro, marquis of Torres Novas, and conde of Santa Cruz, was hereditary
lord-steward of the king's household, and president of the palace-court, or last tribunal of
appeal in the kingdom, so that he possessed the first office at the palace, and the second
of the realm. Francisco de Assiz, marquis of Tavora, conde of St. John and Alvor, was general
of the horse, and head of the third noble house of the Tavoras, the most illustrious family
in the kingdom, deriving their original from the ancient kings of Leon: he married his kinswoman,
who was marchioness of Tavora in her own right, and by this marriage acquired the marquisate.
Louis Bernardo de Tavora was their eldest son, who, by virtue of a dispensation from the pope,
had espoused his own aunt, donna Theresa de Tavora. Joseph Maria de Tavora, his youngest brother,
was also involved in the guilt of his parents. The third principal concerned was don Jeronymo
de Attaide, conde of Attouguia, himself a relation, and married to the eldest daughter of the
marquis of Tavora. The characters of all these personages were unblemished and respectable,
until this machination was detected. In the course of investigating this dark affair, it appeared
that the duke de Aveiro had conceived a personal hatred to the king, who had disappointed him
in a projected match between his son and a sister of the duke de Cadaval, a minor, and prevented
his obtaining some commanderies which the late duke de Aveiro had possessed; that this nobleman,
being determined to gratify his revenge against the person of his sovereign, had exerted all
his art and address in securing the participation of the malecontents; that with this view
he reconciled himself to the Jesuits, with whom he had been formerly at variance, knowing they
were at this time implacably incensed against the king, who had dismissed them from their office
of penitentiaries at court, and branded them with other marks of disgrace, on account of their
illegal and rebellious practices in South America: the duke, moreover, insinuated himself into
the confidence of the marchioness of Tavora, notwithstanding an inveterate rivalship of pride
and ambition, which had long subsisted between the two families. Her resentment against the
king was inflamed by the mortification of her pride in repeated repulses, when she solicited
the title of duke for her husband. Her passions were artfully fomented and managed by the Jesuits,
to whom she had resigned the government of her conscience; and they are said to have persuaded
her, that it would be a meritorious action to take away the life of a prince who was an enemy
to the church, and a tyrant to his people. She, being reconciled to the scheme of assassination,
exerted her influence in such a manner as to inveigle her husband, her sons and son-in law,
into the same infamous design: and yet this lady had been always remarkable for her piety,
affability, and sweetness of disposition. Many consultations were held by the conspirators
at the colleges of the Jesuits, St. Autoa and St. Roque, as well as at the houses of the duke
and the marquis; at last they resolved that the king should be assassinated, and employed two
ruffians, called Antonio Alvarez and Joseph Policarpio, for the execution of this design, the
miscarriage of which we have related among the transactions of the preceding year. In the beginning
of January, before the circumstances of the conspiracy were known, the counts de Oberas and
de Ribeira Grande were imprisoned in the castle of St. Julian, on a suspicion arising from
their freedom of speech. The duchess de Aveiro, the countess of Attouguia, and the marchioness
of Alorna, with their children, were sent to different nunneries; and eight Jesuits were taken
into custody. A council being appointed for the trial of the prisoners, the particulars we
have related were brought to light by the torture; and sentence of death was pronounced and
executed upon the convicted criminals. Eight wheels were fixed upon a scaffold raised in the
square opposite to the house where the prisoners had been confined; and the thirteenth of January
was fixed for the day of execution. Antonio Alvarez Ferreira, one of the assassins who had
fired into the king's equipage, was fixed to a stake at one corner of the scaffold; and at
the other was placed the effigy of his accomplice, Joseph Policarpio de Azevedo, who had made
his escape. The marchioness of Tavora, being brought upon the scaffold between eight and nine
in the morning, was beheaded at one stroke, and then covered with a linen cloth. Her two sons,
and her son-in-law, the count of Attouguia, with three servants of the duke de Aveiro, were
first strangled at one stake, and afterwards broke upon wheels, where their bodies remained
covered; but the duke and the marquis, as chiefs of the conspiracy, were broken alive, and
underwent the most excruciating torments. The last that suffered was the assassin Alvarez,
who being condemned to be burned alive, the combustibles which had been placed on the scaffold
were set on fire, the whole machine with their bodies consumed to ashes, and these ashes thrown
into the sea. The estates of the three unfortunate noblemen were confiscated, and their dwelling-houses
razed to the ground. The name of Tavora was suppressed for ever by a public decree; but that
of Mascarenhas spared, because the duke de Aveiro was a younger branch of the family. A reward
of ten thousand crowns was offered to any person who should apprehend the assassin who had
escaped: then the embargo was taken off the shipping. The king and royal family assisted at
a public Te Deum, sung in the chapel of Nossa Senhoro de Livramento; on which occasion the
king, for the satisfaction of his people, waved his handkerchief with both hands, to show he
was not maimed by the wounds he had received. If such an attempt upon the life of a king was
infamously cruel and perfidious, it must be owned that the punishment inflicted upon the criminals
was horrible to human nature. The attempt itself was attended with some circumstances that
might have staggered belief, had it not appeared but too plain that the king was actually wounded.
One would imagine that the duke de Aveiro, who was charged with designs on the crown, would
have made some preparation for taking advantage of the confusion and disorder which must have
been produced by the king's assassination; but we do not find that any thing of this nature
was premeditated. It was no more than a desperate scheme of personal revenge, conceived without
caution, and executed without conduct; a circumstance the more extraordinary, if we suppose
the conspirators were actuated by the councils of the Jesuits, who have been ever famous for
finesse and dexterity. Besides, the discovery of all the particulars was founded upon confession
extorted by the rack, which at best is a suspicious evidence. Be that as it will, the Portuguese
government, without waiting for a bull from the pope, sequestered all the estates and effects
of the Jesuits in that kingdom, which amounted to considerable sums, and reduced the individuals
of the society to a very scanty allowance. Complaint of their conduct having been made to the
pope, he appointed a congregation to examine into the affairs of the Jesuits in Portugal. In
the meantime the court of Lisbon ordered a considerable number of them to be embarked for Italy,
and resolved that no Jesuits should hereafter reside within its realms. When these transports
arrived at Civita-Vecchia, they were, by the pope's order, lodged in the Dominican and Capuchin
convents of that city, until proper houses could be prepared for their reception at Tivoli
and Frescati. The most guilty of them, however, were detained in close prison in Portugal;
reserved, in all probability, for a punishment more adequate to their enormities.

SESSION OPENED IN ENGLAND.

England still continued to enjoy the blessings of peace, even amidst the triumphs of war. In
the month of November the session of parliament was opened by commission; and, the commons
attending in the house of peers, the lord-keeper harangued the parliament to this effect:--He
gave them to understand that his majesty had directed him to assure them, that he thought himself
peculiarly happy in being able to convoke them in a situation of affairs so glorious to his
crown, and advantageous to his kingdoms: that the king saw and devoutly adored the hand of
Providence, in the many signal successes, both by sea and land, with which his arms had been
blessed in the course of the last campaign: that he reflected with great satisfaction on the
confidence which the parliament had placed in him, by making such ample provisions, and intrusting
him with such extensive powers for carrying on a war, which the defence of their valuable rights
and possessions, together with the preservation of the commerce of his people, had rendered
both just and necessary. He enumerated the late successes of the British arms--the reduction
of Goree on the coast of Africa; the conquest of so many important places in America; the defeat
of the French army in Canada; the reduction of their capital city of Quebec, effected with
so much honour to the courage and conduct of his majesty's officers and forces; the important
advantage obtained by the British squadron off Cape Lagos, and the effectual blocking up for
so many months the principal part of the French navy in their own harbours: events which must
have filled the hearts of all his majesty's faithful subjects with the sincerest joy; and convinced
his parliament that there had been no want of vigilance or vigour on his part, in exerting
those means which they, with so much prudence and public-spirited zeal, had put into his majesty's
hands. He observed, that the national advantages had extended even as far as the East-Indies,
where, by the Divine blessing, the dangerous designs of his majesty's enemies had miscarried,
and that valuable branch of commerce had received great benefit and protection; that the memorable
victory gained over the French at Minden had long made a deep impression on the minds of his
majesty's people: that if the crisis in which the battle was fought, the superior number of
the enemy, the great and able conduct of his majesty's general, prince Ferdinand of Brunswick,
were considered, that action must be the subject of lasting admiration and thankfulness: that
if any thing could fill the breasts of his majesty's good subjects with still further degrees
of exultation, it would be the distinguished and unbroken valour of the British troops, owned
and applauded by those whom they overcame. He said the glory they had gained was not merely
their own; but, in a national view, was one of the most important circumstances of our success,
as it must be a striking admonition to our enemies with whom they have to contend. He told
them that his majesty's good brother and ally, the king of Prussia, attacked and surrounded
by so many considerable powers, had, by his magnanimity and abilities, and the bravery of his
troops, been able, in a surprising manner, to prevent the mischiefs concerted with such united
force against him. He declared, by the command of his sovereign, that as his majesty entered
into this war not from views of ambition, so he did not wish to continue it from motives of
resentment: that the desire of his majesty's heart was to see a stop put to the effusion of
Christian blood: that whenever such terms of peace could be established as should be just and
honourable for his majesty and his allies; and by procuring such advantages as, from the successes
of his majesty's arms, might in reason and equity be expected should bring along with them
full security for the future; his majesty would rejoice to see the repose of Europe restored
on such solid and durable foundations; and his faithful subjects, to whose liberal support
and unshaken firmness his majesty owed so much, happy in the enjoyment of the blessings of
peace and tranquillity: but, in order to this great and desirable end, he said his majesty
was confident the parliament would agree with him, that it was necessary to make ample provision
for carrying on the war, in all parts, with the utmost vigour. He assured the commons, that
the great supplies they had granted in the last session of parliament, had been faithfully
employed for the purposes for which they were granted; but the uncommon extent of the war,
and the various services necessary to be provided for, in order to secure success to his majesty's
measures, had unavoidably occasioned extraordinary expenses. Finally, he repeated the assurances
from the throne, of the high satisfaction his majesty took in that union and good harmony which
was so conspicuous among his good subjects; he said, his sovereign was happy in seeing it continued
and confirmed; he observed that experience had shown how much the nation owed to this union,
which alone could secure the true happiness of his people.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

SUBSTANCE OF THE ADDRESSES.

We shall not anticipate the reader's own reflection, by pretending to comment upon either the
matter or form of this harangue, which however produced all the effect which the sovereign
could desire. The houses, in their respective addresses, seemed to vie with each other in expressions
of attachment and complacency. The peers professed their utmost readiness to concur in the
effectual support of such further measures as his majesty, in his great wisdom, should judge
necessary or expedient for carrying on the war with vigour in all parts, and for disappointing
and repelling any desperate attempts which might be made upon these kingdoms. The commons expressed
their admiration of that true greatness of mind which disposed his majesty's heart, in the
midst of prosperities, to wish a stop put to the effusion of Christian blood, and to see tranquillity
restored. They declared their entire reliance on his majesty's known wisdom and firmness, that
this desirable object, whenever it should be obtained, would be upon teems just and honourable
for his majesty and his allies; and, in order to effect that great end, they assured him they
would cheerfully grant such supplies as should be found necessary to sustain, and press with
effect, all his extensive operations against the enemy. They did not fail to re-echo the speech,
as usual; enumerating the trophies of the year, and extolling the king of Prussia for his consummate
genius, magnanimity, unwearied activity, and unshaken constancy of mind. Very great reason,
indeed, had his majesty to be satisfied with an address of such a nature, from a house of commons
in which opposition lay strangled at the foot of the minister; in which those demagogues, who
had raised themselves to reputation and renown by declaiming against continental measures,
were become so perfectly reconciled to the object of their former reprobation, as to cultivate
it even with a degree of enthsiasm unknown to any former administration, and lay the nation
under such contributions in its behalf, as no other ministry durst ever meditate. Thus disposed,
it was no wonder they admired the moderation of their sovereign in offering to treat of peace,
after above a million of men had perished by the war, and twice that number been reduced to
misery; after whole provinces had been depopulated, whole-countries subdued, and the victors
themselves almost crushed by the trophies they had gained.

Immediately after the addresses were presented, the commons resolved themselves into a committee
of the whole house; and having unanimously voted a supply to his majesty, began to take the
particulars into consideration. This committee was continued till the twelfth of May, when
that whole business was accomplished. For the service of the ensuing year they voted seventy
thousand seamen, including eighteen thousand three hundred and fifty-five marines, and for
their maintenance allotted three millions six hundred and forty thousand pounds. The number
of land-forces, including the British troops in Germany, and the invalids, they fixed at fifty-seven
thousand two hundred and ninety-four men, and granted for their subsistence one million three
hundred and eighty-three thousand seven hundred and forty-eight pounds and tenpence. For maintaining
other forces in the plantations, Gibraltar, Guadaloupe, Africa, and the East Indies, they allowed
eight hundred forty-six thousand one hundred and sixty-eight pounds, nineteen shillings: for
the expense of four regiments on the Irish establishment, serving in North America, they voted
thirty-five thousand seven hundred and forty-four pounds, eight shillings and fourpence. For
pay to the general and general staff officers, and officers of the hospital for the land-forces,
they assigned fifty-four thousand four hundred and fifty-four pounds, eleven shillings and
ninepence. They voted for the expense of the militia in South and North Britain, the sum of
one hundred two thousand and six pounds, four shillings and eightpence. They granted for the
maintenance of thirty-eight thousand seven hundred and fifty men, being the troops of Hanover,
Wolfenbuttle, Saxe-Gotha, and Buckebourg, retained in the service of Great Britain, the sum
of four hundred forty-seven thousand eight hundred and eighty-two pounds, ten shillings and
fivepence halfpenny; and for nineteen thousand Hessian troops, in the same pay, they gave three
hundred sixty-six thousand seven hundred and twenty-five pounds, one shilling and sixpence.
They afterwards bestowed the sum of one hundred eight thousand and twelve pounds, twelve shillings
and sevenpence, for defraying the additional expense of augmentations in the troops of Hanover
and Hesse, and the British army serving in the empire. For the ordinary of the navy, including
half-pay to sea-officers; for carrying on the building of two hospitals, one near Gosport,
and the other in the neighbourhood of Plymouth; for the support of the hospital at Greenwich;
for purchasing ground, erecting wharfs and other accommodations necessary for refitting the
fleets at Halifax in Nova-Scotia; for the charge of the office of ordnance, and defraying the
extraordinary expense incurred by that office in the course of the last year, they allowed
seven hundred eighty-one thousand four hundred and eighty-nine pounds, six shillings and sixpence.
Towards paying off the navy debt, buildings, re-buildings, and repairs of the king's ships,
together with the charges of transport service, they granted one million seven hundred and
one thousand seventy-eight pounds, sixteen shillings and sixpence. For defraying the extraordinary
expenses of the land-forces and other services not provided for by parliament, comprehending
the pensions for the widows of reduced officers, they allotted the sum of nine hundred fifty-five
thousand three hundred and forty-four pounds, fifteen shillings and fivepence halfpenny. Fifteen
thousand pounds they allowed upon account, towards enabling the principal officers of his majesty's
ordnance to defray the necessary charges and expenses of taking down and removing the present
magazine for gunpowder, situated in the neighbourhood of Greenwich, and of erecting it in some
less dangerous situation. Five hundred thousand pounds they voted upon account, as a present
supply towards defraying the charges of forage, bread, bread-waggons, train of artillery, wood,
straw, provisions, and contingencies of his majesty's combined army, under the command of prince
Ferdinand. To the Foundling hospital they granted five thousand pounds; and fifteen thousand
for improving, widening, and enlarging the passage over and through London bridge. To replace
divers sums taken from the sinking fund, they granted two hundred twenty-five thousand two
hundred and eighty-one pounds, nineteen shillings and fourpence. For the subsistence of reduced
officers, including the allowances to the several officers and private men of the two troops
of horse-guards, and regiment of horse reduced, and to the superannuated gentlemen of the four
troops of horse-guards, they voted thirty-eight thousand five hundred and ninety-seven pounds,
nine shillings. Upon account, for the support of the colonies of Nova-Scotia and Georgia, they
granted twenty-one thousand six hundred ninety-four pounds, two shillings and twopence. For
enabling the king to give a proper compensation to the provinces in North America, for the
expenses they might incur in levying and maintaining troops, according as the vigour and activity
of those respective provinces should be thought by his majesty to merit, they advanced the
sum of two hundred thousand pounds. The East India company they gratified with twenty thousand
pounds, towards enabling them to defray the expense of a military force in their settlements,
in lieu of a battalion of the king's troops now returned to Ireland. Twenty-five thousand pounds
were provided for the payment of the out-pensioners of Chelsea hospital. For subsequent augmentation
of the British forces, since the first estimate of guards and garrisons for the ensuing year
was presented, they allowed one hundred thirty-four thousand one hundred and thirty-nine pounds,
seventeen shillings and fourpence. They further voted, upon account, towards enabling the governors
and guardians of the Foundling hospital to maintain, educate, and bind apprentice the children
admitted into the said charity, the sum of forty-seven thousand two hundred and eighty-five
pounds. For defraying the expense of maintaining the militia in South and North Britain, to
the twenty-fourth day of December of the ensuing year, they voted an additional grant of two
hundred ninety thousand eight hundred and twenty-six pounds, sixteen shillings and eightpence:
and, moreover, they granted four-score thousand pounds, upon account, towards defraying the
charge of pay and clothing of the unembodied militia for the year ending on the twenty-fifth
day of March, in the year one thousand seven hundred and sixty-one. For the maintenance and
augmentation of the troops of Brunswick in the pay of Great Britain for the ensuing year, pursuant
to an ulterior convention concluded and signed at Paderborn on the fifth day of March, in the
year one thousand seven hundred and sixty, they granted the sum of ninety thousand seven hundred
and sixty-nine pounds, eight shillings and elevenpence farthing; and for the troops of Hesse-Cassel
in the same pay, during the same period, they allotted one hundred and one thousand and ninety-six
pounds, three shillings and twopence. For the extraordinary expenses of the land-forces, and
other services, incurred from the twenty-fourth day of November in the present year, to the
twenty-fourth of December following, and not-provided for, they granted the sum of four hundred
twenty thousand one hundred and twenty pounds, one shilling. To make good the deficiency of
the grants for the service of this present year, one thousand seven hundred and fifty-nine,
they assigned the sum of seventy-five thousand one hundred and seventy pounds, and threepence
farthing. For printing the journals of the house of commons they gave five thousand pounds;
and six hundred and thirty-four pounds, thirteen shillings and seven-pence, as interest at
the rate of four per centum per annum, from the twenty-fifth day of August in the present year,
to the same day of April next, for the sum of twenty-three thousand eight hundred pounds, eleven
shillings and elevenpence, remaining in the office of ordnance, and not paid into the hands
of the deputy of the king's remembrancer of the court of exchequer, as directed by an act made
in the last session of parliament, to make compensation for lands and hereditaments purchased
for his majesty's service at Chatham, Portsmouth, and Plymouth, by reason of doubts and difficulties
which had arisen touching the execution of the said act. For defraying the extraordinary charge
of the mint during the present year, they allowed eleven thousand nine hundred and forty pounds,
thirteen shillings and ten-pence; and two thousand five hundred pounds upon account, for paying
the debts claimed and sustained upon a forfeited estate in North Britain. They likewise allowed
twelve thousand eight hundred and seventy-four pounds, fifteen shillings and tenpence, for
defraying the charge of a regiment of light-dragoons, and of an additional company to the corps
commanded by lieutenant-colonel Vaughan. On the whole, the sum total granted in this session
of parliament amounted to fifteen millions five hundred and three thousand five hundred and
sixty-three pounds, fifteen shillings and ninepence halfpenny: a sum so enormous, whether we
consider the nation that raised it, or the purposes for which it was raised, that every Briton
of a sedate mind, attached to the interest and welfare of his country, must reflect upon it
with equal astonishment and concern: a sum considerably more than double the largest subsidy
that was granted in the reign of queen Anne, when the nation was in the zenith of her glory,
and retained half the powers of Europe in her pay: a sum almost double of what any former administration
durst have asked: and near double of what the most sanguine calculators, who lived in the beginning
of this century, thought the nation could give without the most imminent hazard of immediate
bankruptcy. Of the immense supply which we have particularized, the reader will perceive that
two millions three hundred forty-four thousand four hundred and eighty-six pounds, sixteen
shillings and sevenpence three farthings, were paid to foreigners for supporting the war in
Germany, exclusive of the money expended by the British troops in that country, the number
of which amounted, in the course of the ensuing year, to twenty thousand men: a number the
more extraordinary, if we consider they were all transported to that continent during the administration
of those who declared in parliament (the words still sounding in our ears) that not a man,
nor even half a man, should be sent from Great Britain to Germany, to fight the battles of
any foreign elector. Into the expense of the German war sustained by Great Britain, we must
also throw the charge of transporting the English troops; the article of forage, which alone
amounted, in the course of the last campaign, to one million two hundred thousand pounds, besides
pontage, waggons, horses, and many other contingencies. To the German war we may also impute
the extraordinary expense incurred by the actual service of the militia, which the absence
of the regular troops rendered in a great measure necessary; and the loss of so many hands
withdrawn from industry, from husbandry, and manufacture. The loss sustained by this connexion
was equally grievous and apparent; the advantage accruing from it, either to Britain or Hanover,
we have not discernment sufficient to perceive, consequently cannot be supposed able to explain.

The committee of ways and means, having duly deliberated on the articles of supply, continued
sitting from the twenty-second day of November to the fourteenth of May, during which period
they established the necessary funds to produce the sums which had been granted. The land-tax
at four shillings in the pound, and the malt-tax, were continued, as the standing revenue of
Great Britain. The whole provision made by the committee of ways and means amounted to sixteen
millions one hundred thirty thousand five hundred and sixty-one pounds, nine shillings and
eightpence, exceeding the grants for the service of the year one thousand seven hundred and
sixty, in the sum of six hundred twenty-six thousand nine hundred ninety-seven pounds, thirteen
shillings and tenpence halfpenny. This excess, however, will not appear extraordinary, when
we consider that it was destined to make good the premium of two hundred and forty thousand
pounds to the subscribers upon the eight million loan, as well as the deficiencies in the other
grants, which never fail to make a considerable article in the supply of every session. That
these gigantic strides towards the ruin of public credit were such as might alarm every well-wisher
to his country, will perhaps more plainly appear in the sum total of the national debt, which,
including the incumbrance of one million charged upon the civil-list revenue, and provided
for by a tax upon salaries and pensions payable out of that revenue, amounted, at this period,
to the tremendous sum of one hundred eight millions four hundred ninety-three thousand one
hundred and fifty-four pounds, fourteen shillings and elevenpence one farthing.--A comfortable
reflection this to a people involved in the most expensive war that ever was waged, and already
burdened with such taxes as no other nation ever bore!

It is not at all necessary to particularize the acts that were founded upon the resolutions
touching the supply. We shall only observe that, in the act for the land-tax, and in the act
for the malt-tax, there was a clause of credit, empowering the commissioners of the treasury
to raise the money which they produced by loans on exchequer bills, bearing an interest of
four per cent, per annum, that is, one per cent, higher than the interest usually granted in
time of peace. While the house of commons deliberated on the bill for granting to his majesty
several duties upon malt, and for raising a certain sum of money to be charged on the said
duties, a petition was presented by the maltsters of Ipswich and parts adjacent against an
additional duty on the stock of malt in hand: but no regard was paid to this remonstrance;
and the bill, with several new amendments, passed through both houses, under the title of "An
act for granting to his majesty several duties upon malt, and for raising the sum of eight
millions by way of annuities and a lottery, to be charged on the said duties: and to prevent
the fraudulent obtaining of allowances in the gauging of corn making into malt; and for making
forth duplicates of exchequer-bills, tickets, certificates, receipts, annuity orders, and other
orders lost, burned, or otherwise destroyed." The other three bills that turned wholly on the
supply were passed in common course, without the least opposition in either house, and received
the royal assent by commission at the end of the session. The first of these, entituled, "A
bill for enabling his majesty to raise a certain sum of money for the uses and purposes therein
mentioned," contained a clause of approbation, added to it by instruction; and the Bank was
enabled to lend the million which the commissioners of the treasury were empowered by the act
to borrow, at the interest of four pounds per cent. The second, granting to his majesty a certain
sum of money out of the sinking-fund, for the service of the year one thousand seven hundred
and sixty, comprehended a clause of credit for borrowing the money thereby granted; and another
clause, empowering the Bank to lend it without any limitation or interest; and the third, enabling
his majesty to raise a certain sum of money towards discharging the debt of the navy, and for
naval services during the ensuing year, enacted, that the exchequer bills thereby to be issued
should not be received, or pass to any receiver or collector of the public revenue, or at the
receipt of the exchequer, before the twenty-sixth day of March, in the year one thousand seven
hundred and sixty-one.

PETITIONS RESPECTING THE PROHIBITION OF THE MALT DISTILLERY.

As the act of the preceding session, prohibiting the malt distillery, was to expire at Christmas,
the commons thinking it necessary to consider of proper methods for laying the malt distillery
under such regulations as might prevent, if possible, its being prejudicial to the health and
morals of the people, began as early as the month of November to deliberate on this affair;
which being under agitation, petitions were presented to the house by several of the principal
inhabitants of Spital-fields; the mayor and commonalty of New Sarum; the gentlemen, clergy,
merchants, manufacturers, tradesmen, and other inhabitants of Colchester; the mayor, aldermen,
and common council of King's Lynn in Norfolk; the mayor and bailiffs of Berwick-upon-Tweed;
representing the advantages accruing from the prohibition of the malt distillery, and praying
the continuance of the act by which it was prohibited. On the other hand, counter-petitions
were offered by the mayor, magistrates, merchants, manufacturers, and other gentlemen of the
city of Norwich; by the land-owners and holders of the south-west part of Essex; and by the
freeholders of the shires of Ross and Cromartic, in North Britain; alleging, that the scarcity
of corn, which had made it necessary to prohibit the malt distillery, had ceased; and that
the continuing the prohibition beyond the necessity which had required it would be a great
loss and discouragement to the landed interest: they therefore prayed that the said distillery
might be again opened, under such regulations and restrictions as the house should think proper.
These remonstrances being taken into consideration, and divers accounts perused, the house
unanimously agreed that the prohibition should be continued for a limited time; and a bill
being brought in, pursuant to this resolution, passed through both houses, and received the
royal assent; by which means the prohibition of the malt distillery was continued till the
twenty-fourth day of December, in the year one thousand seven hundred and sixty, unless such
continuation should be abridged by any other act to be passed in the present session.

OPPOSITION TO THE BILL FOR PREVENTING THE EXCESSIVE USE OF SPIRITS.

The committee, having examined a great number of accounts and papers relating to spirituous
liquors, agreed to four resolutions, importing, that the present high price of spirituous liquors
is a principal cause of the diminution in the home consumption thereof, and hath greatly contributed
to the health, sobriety, and industry of the common people: that, in order to continue for
the future the present high price of all spirits used for home consumption, a large additional
duty should be laid upon all spirituous liquors whatsoever, distilled within or imported into
Great Britain: that there should be a drawback of the said additional duties upon all spirituous
liquors distilled in Great Britain, which should be exported; and that an additional bounty
should be granted under proper regulations, upon the exportation of all spirituous liquors
drawn from corn in Great Britain. A great many accounts being perused, and witnesses examined,
relating to the distillery, a bill was brought in to prevent the excessive use of spirituous
liquors, by laying an additional duty thereupon; and to encourage the exportation of British-made
spirits. Considerable opposition was made to the bill, on the opinion that the additional duty
proposed was too small; and that, among the resolutions, there was not so much as one that
looked like a provision or restriction for preventing the pernicious abuse of such liquors.
Nay, many persons affirmed, that what was proposed looked more like a scheme for increasing
the public revenues, than a salutary measure to prevent excess. The merchants and manufacturers
of the town of Birmingham petitioned for such instructions. They expressed their fears, that,
should such a bill pass into a law, the excessive use of spirituous liquors would not only
debilitate and enervate the labourers, manufacturers, sailors, soldiers, and all the lower
class of people, and thereby extinguish industry, and that remarkable intrepidity which had
lately so eminently appeared in the British nation, which must always depend on the vigour
and industry of its people; but also its liberty and happiness, which cannot be supported without
temperance and morality, would run the utmost risk of being destroyed. They declared themselves
also apprehensive, that the extraordinary consumption of bread corn by the still would not
only raise the price, so as to oppress the lower class of people, but would raise such a bar
to the exportation thereof, as to deprive the nation of a great influx of money, at that time
essential towards the maintaining of an expensive war, and therefore highly injure the landed
and commercial interests: they therefore prayed that the present prohibition of distilling
spirits from corn might be continued, or that the use of wheat might not be allowed in distillation.
This remonstrance was corroborated by another to the same purpose, from several merchants,
manufacturers, and traders, residing in and near the city of London; and seemed to have some
weight with the commons, who made several amendments in the bill, which they now intituled,
"A bill for preventing the excessive use of spirituous liquors, by laying additional duties
thereon; for shortening the prohibition for making low wines and spirits from wheat; for encouraging
the exportation of British-made spirits, and preventing the fraudulent relanding or importation
thereof." Thus altered and amended, it passed on a division; and, making its way through the
house of lords, acquired the royal sanction. Whether the law be adequate to the purposes for
which it was enacted, time will determine. The best way of preventing the excess of spirituous
liquors would be to lower the excise on beer and ale, so as to enable the poorer class of labourers
to refresh themselves with a comfortable liquor for nearly the same expense that will procure
a quantity of Geneva sufficient for intoxication; for it cannot be supposed that a poor wretch
will expend his last penny upon a draught of small beer, without strength or the least satisfactory
operation, when for the half of that sum he can purchase a cordial, that will almost instantaneously
allay the sense of hunger and cold, and regale his imagination with the most agreeable illusions.
Malt was at this time sold cheaper than it was in the first year of king James I. when the
parliament enacted, that no innkeeper, victualler, or alehouse-keeper, should sell less than
a full quart of the best ale or beer, or two quarts of the small, for one penny, under the
penalty of twenty shillings. It appears, then, that in the reign of king James the subject
paid but fourpence for a gallon of strong beer, which now costs one shilling; and as the malt
is not increased in value, the difference in the price must be entirely owing to the taxes
on beer, malt, and hops, which are indeed very grievous, though perhaps necessary. The duty
on small beer is certainly one of the heaviest taxes imposed upon any sort of consumption that
cannot be considered as an article of luxury. Two bushels of malt, and two pounds of hops,
are required to make a barrel of good small beer, which was formerly sold for six shillings;
and the taxes payable on such a barrel amounted to three shillings and sixpence; so that the
sum total of the imposition on this commodity was equal to a land-tax of eleven shillings and
eightpence in the pound.

Immediately after the resolution relating to the prohibition of spirits from wheat, a motion
was made and leave given to bring in a bill to continue, for a time limited, the act of the
last session, permitting the importation of salted beef from Ireland. In all probability this
short and temporary continuance was proposed by the favourers of the bill, in order to avoid
the clamour and opposition of prejudice and ignorance, which would have been dangerously alarmed,
had it been rendered perpetual. Yet as undoubted evidence had proved before the committee,
while the bill was depending, that the importation had been of great service to England, particularly
in reducing the price of salted beef for the use of the navy, perhaps no consideration ought
to have prevented the legislature from perpetuating the law; a measure that would encourage
the graziers of Ireland to breed and fatten horned cattle, and certainly put a stop to the
practice of exporting salted beef from that kingdom to France, which undoubtedly furnishes
the traders of that kingdom with opportunities of exporting wool to the same country.

ATTEMPT TO ESTABLISH A MILITIA IN SCOTLAND.

As several lieutenants of counties had, for various reasons, suspended all proceedings in the
execution of the laws relating to the militia for limited times, which suspensions were deemed
inconsistent with the intent of the legislature, a bill was now brought in, to enable his majesty's
lieutenants of the several counties of England and Wales to proceed in the execution of the
militia laws, notwithstanding any adjournments. It was enacted, that, as the speedy execution
of the laws for regulating the militia was most essentially necessary at this juncture to the
peace and security of the kingdom., every lieutenant of the place where such suspension had
happened should, within one month after the passing of this act, proceed as if there had been
no such suspension; and summon a meeting for the same purpose once in every succeeding month
until a sufficient number of officers, qualified and willing to serve, should be found, or
until the expiration of the act for the better ordering the militia forces. The establishment
of a regular militia in South Britain could not fail to make an impression upon the patriots
of Scotland. They were convinced, from reason and experience, that nothing could more tend
to the peace and security of their country than such an establishment in North Britain, the
inhabitants of which had been peculiarly exposed to insurrections, which a well-regulated militia
might have prevented or stifled in the birth; and their coast had been lately alarmed by a
threatened invasion, which nothing but the want of such an establishment had rendered formidable
to the natives. They thought themselves entitled to the same security which the legislature
had provided for their fellow-subjects in South Britain, and could not help being uneasy at
the prospect of seeing themselves left unarmed, and exposed to injuries both foreign and domestic,
while the sword was put in the hands of their southern neighbours. Some of the members who
represented North Britain in parliament, moved by these considerations, as well as by the earnest
injunctions of their constituents, resolved to make a vigorous effort, in order to obtain the
establishment of a regular militia in Scotland. In the beginning of March it was moved, and
resolved, that the house would, on the twelfth day of the month, resolve itself into a committee,
to consider the laws in being which relate to the militia in that part of Great Britain, called
Scotland. The result of that inquiry was, that these laws were ineffectual. Then a motion was
made for leave to bring-in a bill for the better ordering of the militia forces in North Britain,
and, though it met with great opposition, was carried by a large majority. The principal Scottish
members of the house were appointed, in conjunction with others, to prepare the bill, which
was soon printed, and reinforced by petitions presented by the gentlemen, justices of the peace,
and commissioners of the supply for the shire of Ayr; and by the freeholders of the shires
of Edinburgh, Stirling, Perth, and Forfar. They expressed their approbation of the established
militia in England, and their ardent wish to see the benefit of that wise and salutary measure
extended to North Britain. This was an indulgence they had the greater reason to hope for,
as by the articles of the union they were undoubtedly entitled to be on the same footing with
their brethren of England; and as the legislature must now be convinced of the necessity of
some such measures, by the consternation lately produced in their defenceless country, from
the threatened invasion of a handful of French freebooters. These remonstrances had no weight
with the majority in the house of commons, who, either unable or unwilling to make proper distinctions
between the ill and well affected subjects of North Britain, rejected the bill, as a very dangerous
experiment in favour of a people among whom so many rebellions had been generated and produced.
When the motion was made for the bill's being committed, a warm debate ensued, in the course
of which many Scottish members spoke in behalf of their country with great force of argument,
and a very laudable spirit of freedom. Mr. Elliot, in particular, one of the commissioners
of the board of admiralty, distinguished himself by a noble flow of eloquence, adorned with
all the graces of oratory, and warmed with the true spirit of patriotism. Mr. Oswald, of the
treasury, acquitted himself with great honour on the occasion; ever nervous, steady, and sagacious,
independent though in office, and invariable in pursuing the interest of his country. It must
be owned, for the honour of North Britain, that all her representatives, except two, warmly
contended for this national measure, which was carried in the negative by a majority of one
hundred and six, though the bill was exactly modelled by the late act of parliament for the
establishment of the militia in England.

Even this institution, though certainly laudable and necessary, was attended with so many unforeseen
difficulties, that every session of parliament since it was first established has produced
new acts for its better regulation. In April, leave was given to prepare a bill for limiting,
confining, and better regulating the payment of the weekly allowances made by act of parliament,
for the maintenance of families unable to support themselves during the absence of militia-men
embodied, and ordered out into actual service; as well as for amending and improving the establishment
of the militia, and lessening the number of officers entitled to pay within that part of Great
Britain, called England. While this bill was under consideration, the house received a petition
from the mayor, aldermen, town-clerk, sheriffs, gentlemen, merchants, clergy, tradesmen, and
others, inhabitants of the ancient city of Lincoln, representing, That by an act passed relating
to the militia it was provided, that when any militia-men should be ordered out into actual
service, leaving families unable to support themselves during their absence, the overseers
of the parish where such families reside, should allow them such weekly support as should be
prescribed by any one justice of the peace, which allowance should be reimbursed out of the
county stock. They alleged, that a considerable number of men, inhabitants of the said city,
had entered themselves to serve in the militia of the county of Lincoln, as volunteers, for
several parishes and persons; yet their families were, nevertheless, supported by the county
stock of the city and county of the city of Lincoln. They took notice of the bill under deliberation,
and prayed that if it should pass into a law, they might have such relief in the premises,
as to the house should seem meet. Regard was had to this petition in the amendments to the
bill, [535] [See note 4 G, at the end of this Vol.] which passed through both houses, and received
the royal assent by commission. During the dependence of this bill another was brought in,
to explain so much of the militia act passed in the thirty-first year of his majesty's reign,
as related to the money to be given to private militia-men, upon their being ordered out into
actual service. By this law it was enacted, that the guinea, which by the former act was due
to every private man of every regiment or company of militia, when ordered out into actual
service, should be paid to every man that shall afterwards be enrolled into such regiment or
company whilst in actual service; that no man should be entitled to his clothes for his own
use, until he should have served three years, if unembodied, or one year, if embodied, after
the delivery of the clothes; and that the full pay of the militia should commence from the
date of his majesty's warrant for drawing them out. The difficulties which these successive
regulations were made to obviate, will be amply recompenced by the good effects of a national
militia, provided it be employed in a national way, and for national purposes: but if the militia
are embodied, and the different regiments that compose it are marched from the respective counties
to which they belong; if the men are detained for any length of time in actual service, at
a distance from their families, when they might be employed at home in works of industry, for
the support of their natural dependents; the militia becomes no other than an addition to,
or augmentation of, a standing army, enlisted for the term of three years; the labour of the
men is lost to the community; they contract the idle habits and dissolute manner of the other
troops; their families are left as incumbrances on the community; and the charge of their subsistence
is, at least, as heavy as that of maintaining an equal number of regular forces. It would not,
we apprehend, be very easy to account for the government's ordering the regiments of militia
to march from their respective counties, and to do duty for a considerable length of time at
a great distance from their own homes, unless we suppose this measure was taken to create in
the people a disgust to the institution of the militia, which was an establishment extorted
from the secretary by the voice of the nation. We may add, that some of the inconveniencies
attending a militia will never be totally removed, while the persons drawn by lot for that
service are at liberty to hire substitutes; for it cannot be supposed that men of substance
will incur the danger, fatigue, and damage of service in person, while they can hire among
the lowest class of people mercenaries of desperate fortune and abandoned morals, who will
greedily seize the opportunity of being paid for renouncing that labour by which they were
before obliged to maintain themselves and their family connexion: it would, therefore, deserve
the consideration of the legislature, whether the privilege of hiring substitutes should not
be limited to certain classes of men, who are either raised by their rank in life above the
necessity of serving in person, or engaged in such occupations as cannot be intermitted without
prejudice to the commonwealth. It must be allowed, that the regulation in this new act, by
which the families of substitutes are deprived of any relief from the parish, will not only
diminish the burden of the poor's rates; but also, by raising the price of mercenaries, oblige
a greater number of the better sort to serve in person. Without all doubt, the fewer substitutes
that are employed, the more dependence may be placed upon the militia in the preservation of
our rights and privileges, and the more will the number of the disciplined men be increased;
because at the expiration of every three years the lot-men must be changed, and new militia-men
chosen; but the substitutes will, in all probability, continue for life in the service, provided
they can find lot-men to hire them at every rotation. The reader will forgive our being so
circumstantial upon the regulations of an institution, which we cannot help regarding with
a kind of enthusiastic affection.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

BILL FOR REMOVING THE POWDER MAGAZINE AT GREENWICH.

In the latter end of November, the house of commons received a petition from several noblemen,
gentlemen, and others, inhabitants of East Greenwich, and places adjacent, in Kent, representing,
that in the said parish, within a quarter of a mile of the town distinguished by a royal palace,
and royal hospital for seamen, there was a magazine, containing great quantities of gunpowder,
frequently to the amount of six thousand barrels: that besides the great danger which must
attend all places of that kind, the said magazine stood in an open field uninclosed by any
fortification or defence whatsoever, consequently exposed to treachery and every other accident.
They alleged, that if through treachery, lightning, or any other accident, this magazine should
take fire, not only their lives and properties, but the palace and hospital, the king's yards
and stores at Deptford and Woolwich, the banks and navigation of the Thames, with the ships
sailing and at anchor in that river, would be inevitably destroyed, and inconceivable damage
would accrue to the cities of London and Westminster. They, moreover, observed, that the magazine
was then in a dangerous condition, supported on all sides by props that were decayed at the
foundation; that in case it should fall, the powder would, in all probability, take fire, and
produce the dreadful calamities above recited: they therefore prayed that the magazine might
be removed to some more convenient place, where any accident would not be attended with such
dismal consequences. The subject of this remonstrance was so pressing and important, that a
committee was immediately appointed to take the affair into consideration, and procure an estimate
for purchasing lands, and erecting a powder magazine at Purfleet, in Essex, near the banks
of the river, together with a guard-house, barracks, and all other necessary conveniences.
While the report of the committee lay upon the table for the perusal of the members, Mr. chancellor
of the exchequer, by his majesty's command, acquainted the house, that the king, having been
informed of the subject matter of the petition, recommended it to the consideration of the
commons. Leave was immediately given to prepare a bill, founded on the resolutions of the committee;
which having been duly considered, altered, and amended, passed through both houses to the
foot of the throne, where it obtained the royal sanction. The magazine was accordingly removed
to Purfleet, an inconsiderable and solitary village, where there will be little danger of accident,
and where no great damage would attend an explosion; but in order to render this possible explosion
still less dangerous, it would be necessary to form the magazine of small distinct apartments,
totally independent of each other, that in case one should be accidentally blown up, the rest
might stand unaffected. The same plan ought to be adopted in the construction of all combustible
stores subject to conflagration. The marine bill and mutiny bill, as annual regulations, were
prepared in the usual form, passed both houses without opposition, and received the royal assent.

ACT FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE STREETS OF LONDON.

The next affair that engrossed the deliberation of the commons, was a measure relating to the
internal economy of the metropolis. The sheriffs of London delivered a petition from the lord
mayor, aldermen, and commons, in common council assembled, representing that several streets,
lanes, and passages within the city of London, and liberties thereof, were too narrow and incommodious
for the passing and repassing as well of foot passengers as of coaches, carts, and other carriages,
to the prejudice and inconvenience of the owners and inhabitants of houses, and to the great
hinderance of business, trade, and commerce. They alleged that these defects might be remedied,
and several new streets opened within the said city and liberties, to the great ease, safety,
and convenience of passengers, as well as to the advantage of the public in general, if they,
the petitioners, were enabled to widen and enlarge the narrow streets, lanes, and passages,
to open and lay out such new streets and ways, and to purchase the several houses, buildings,
and grounds which might be necessary for these purposes. They took notice that there were several
houses within the city and liberties, partly erected over the ground of other proprietors;
and others, of which the several floors or apartments belonged to different persons, so that
difficulties and disputes frequently arose amongst the said several owners and proprietors,
about pulling down or rebuilding the party walls and premises; that such rebuilding was often
prevented or delayed, to the great injury and inconvenience of those owners who were desirous
to rebuild; that it would therefore be of public benefit, and frequently prevent the spreading
of the fatal effects of fire, if some provision were made by law, as well for determining such
disputes in a summary way, as for explaining and amending the laws then in being relating to
the building of party-walls. They therefore prayed that leave might be given to bring in a
bill for enabling the petitioners to widen and enlarge the several streets, lanes, and passages,
and to open new streets and ways to be therein limited and prescribed, as well as for determining,
in a summary way, all disputes arising about the rebuilding of houses or tenements within the
said city and liberties, wherein several persons have an intermixed property; and for explaining
and amending the laws in being, relating to these particulars. A committee being appointed
to examine the matter of this petition, agreed to a report, upon which leave was given to prepare
a bill, and this was brought in accordingly. Next day a great number of citizens represented,
in another petition, that the pavement of the city and liberties was often damaged, by being
broken up for the purposes of amending or new-laying water-pipes belonging to the proprietors
of water-works, and praying that provision might be made in the bill then depending, to compel
those proprietors to make good any damage that should be done to the pavement by the leaking
or bursting of the water-pipes, or opening the pavement for alterations. In consequence of
this representation, some amendments were made in the bill, which passed through both houses,
and was enacted into a law, under the title of "An act for widening certain streets, lanes,
and passages, within the city of London and liberties thereof, and for opening certain new
streets and ways within the same, and for other purposes therein mentioned." [536] [See note
4 H, at the end of this Vol.]

BILL RELATIVE TO THE SALE OF FISH, &c.

The inhabitants of Westminster had long laboured under the want of a fish-market, and complained
that the price of this species of provision was kept up at an exorbitant rate by the fraudulent
combination of a few dealers, who engrossed the whole market at Billingsgate, and destroyed
great quantities of fish, in order to enhance the value of those that remained. An act of parliament
had passed, in the twenty-second year of his present majesty's reign, for establishing a free
market for the sale of fish in Westminster; and, seven years after that period, it was found
necessary to procure a second, for explaining and amending the first. but neither effectually
answered the purposes of the legislature. In the month of January, of the present session,
the house took into consideration a petition of the several fishermen trading to Billingsgate
market, representing the hardships to which they were exposed by the said acts; particularly
forfeitures of vessels and cargoes, incurred by the negligence of servants who had omitted
to make the particular entries which the two acts prescribed. This petition being examined
by a committee, and the report being made, leave was given to bring in a new bill, which should
contain effectual provision for the better supplying the cities of London and Westminster with
fish, and for preventing the abuses of the fishmongers. It was intituled, "A bill to repeal
so much of an act passed in the twenty-ninth of George II. concerning a free market for fish
at Westminster, as requires fishermen to enter their fishing vessels at the office of the searcher
of the customs at Gravesend, and to regulate the sale of fish at the first hand in the fish-markets
of London and Westminster; and to prevent salesmen of fish buying fish to sell again on their
own account; and to allow bret and turbot, brill and pearl, although under the respective dimensions
mentioned in a former act, to be imported and sold; and to punish persons who shall take or
sell any spawn, brood, or fry of fish, unsizeable fish, or fish out of season, or smelts under
the size of five inches, and for other purposes." Though this, and the former bill relating
to the streets and houses of London, are instances that evince the care and attention of the
legislature, even to minute particulars of the internal economy of the kingdom, we can hardly
consider them as objects of such dignity and importance as to demand the deliberations of the
parliament, but think they naturally fall within the cognizance of the municipal magistracy.
After all, perhaps, the most effectual method for supplying Westminster with plenty of fish
at reasonable rates, would be to execute with rigour the laws already enacted against forestalling
and regrating, an expedient that would soon dissolve all monopolies and combinations among
the traders; to increase the number of markets in London and Westminster, and to establish
two general markets at the Nore, one on each side of the river, where the fishing vessels might
unload their cargoes, and return to sea without delay. A number of light boats might be employed
to convey fresh fish from these marts to London and Westminster, where all the different fish-markets
might be plentifully supplied at a reasonable expense; for it cannot be supposed that, while
the fresh fish are brought up the river in the fishing smacks themselves, which can hardly
save the tides, to Billingsgate, they will ever dream of carrying their cargoes above bridge,
or that the price of fish can be considerably lowered, while the fishing vessels lose so much
time in running up to Gravesend or Billingsgate.

ACT FOR ASCERTAINING the QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT.

The annual committee being appointed to inquire what laws were expired or near expiring, agreed
to certain resolutions; upon which a bill was prepared, and obtained the royal assent, importing
a continuation of several laws, namely, the several clauses mentioned of the acts in the fifth
and eighth of George I. against the clandestine running of uncustomed goods, except the clauses
relating to quarantine; the act passed in the third of George II. relating to the carrying
rice from Carolina; the act of the seventh of the same reign, re-fating to cochineal and indigo;
and that of the twelfth of George II. so far as it related to the importation of printed books.
There was also a law enacted, to continue to the twenty-ninth day of September in the year
one thousand seven hundred and sixty-seven, an act passed in the twelfth year of queen Anne,
for encouraging the making of sail-cloth, by a duty of one penny per ell laid upon all foreign-made
sails and sail-cloth imported; and a bounty in the same proportion granted upon all home-made
sail-cloth and canvass fit for or made into sails, and exported; another act was passed, for
continuing certain laws relating to the additional number of one hundred hackney coaches and
chairs, which law was rendered perpetual. The next law we shall mention was intended to be
one of the most important that ever fell under the cognizance of the legislature: it was a
law that affected the freedom, dignity, and independency of parliaments. By an act, passed
in the ninth year of the reign of queen Anne, it was provided that no person should be chosen
a member of parliament who did not possess in England or Wales an estate, freehold or copyhold,
for life, according to the following qualifications: for every knight of a shire six hundred
pounds per annum, over and above what will satisfy all incumbrances; and three hundred pounds
per annum, for every citizen, burgess, and baron of the cinque ports. It was also decreed,
that the return of any person not thus qualified should be void; and that every candidate should,
at the reasonable request of any other candidate at the time of election, or of two or more
persons who had a right to vote, take an oath prescribed to establish his qualifications. This
restraint was by no means effectual. So many oaths of different kinds had been prescribed since
the revolution, that they began to lose the effect they were intended to have on the minds
of men; and, in particular, political perjury grew so common, that it was no longer considered
as a crime. Subterfuges were discovered, by means of which this law relating to the qualification
of candidates was effectually eluded. Those who were not actually possessed of such estates,
procured temporary conveyances from their friends and patrons, on condition of their being
restored and cancelled after the election. By this scandalous fraud the intention of the legislature
was frustrated, the dignity of parliament prostituted, the example of perjury and corruption
extended, and the vengeance of heaven set at defiance. Through this infamous channel the ministry
had it in their power to thrust into parliament a set of venal beggars, who, as they depended
upon their bounty, would always be obsequious to their will, and vote according to direction,
without the least regard to the dictates of conscience, or to the advantage of their country.
The mischiefs attending such a vile collusion, and in particular the undue influence which
the crown must have acquired from the practice, were either felt or apprehended by some honest
patriots, who after divers unsuccessful efforts, at length presented to the house a bill, importing
that every person who shall be elected a member of the house of commons, should, before he
presumed to take his seat, deliver to the clerk of the house, at the table, while the commons
were sitting, and the speaker in the chair, a paper, or schedule, signed by himself, containing
a rental or particular of the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, whereby he makes out his
qualification, specifying the nature of his estate, whether messuage, land, rent, tithe, or
what else; and if such estate consists of messuages, lands, or tithes, then specifying in whose
occupation they are; and if in rent, then specifying the names of the owners or possessors
of the lands and tenements out of which such rent is issuing, and also specifying the parish,
township, or precinct and county, in which the said estate lies, and the value thereof; and
every such person shall, at the same time, also take and subscribe the following oath, to be
fairly written at the bottom of the paper or schedule: "I, A. B. do swear that the above is
a true rental; and that I truly, and bona fide, have such an estate in law or equity, to and
for my own use and benefit, of and in the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, above described,
over and above what will satisfy and clear all incumbrances that may affect the same; and that
such estate hath not been granted or made over to me fraudulently, on purpose to qualify me
to be a member of this house. So help me God!" It was provided that the said paper or schedule,
with the oath aforesaid, should be carefully kept by the clerk, to be inspected by the members
of the house of commons, without fee or reward: that if any person elected to serve in any
future parliament, should presume to sit or vote as a member of the house of commons before
he had delivered in such a paper or schedule, and taken the oath aforesaid, or should not be
qualified according to the true intent or meaning of this act, his election should be void;
and every person so sitting and voting should forfeit a certain sum to be recovered, by such
persons as should sue for the same by action of debt, bill, plaint, or information, whereon
no essoign, privilege, protection, or wager of law should be allowed, and only one imparlance:
that if any person should have delivered in, and sworn to his qualification as aforesaid, and
taken his seat in the house of commons, yet at any time after should, during the continuance
of such parliament, sell, dispose of, alien, or any otherwise incumber the estate, or any part
thereof comprised in the schedule, so as to lessen or reduce the same under the value of the
qualification by law directed, every such person, under a certain penalty, must deliver in
a new or further qualification, according to the true intent and meaning of this act, and swear
to the same, in manner before directed, before he shall again presume to sit or vote as a member
of the house of commons; that in case any action, suit, or information should be brought, in
pursuance of this act, against any member of the house of commons, the clerk of the house,
shall, upon demand, forthwith deliver a true and attested copy of the paper or schedule so
delivered in to him as aforesaid by such member to the plaintiff or prosecutor, or his attorney
or agent, on paying a certain sum for the same; which, being proved a true copy, shall be admitted
to be given in evidence upon the trial of any issue in any such action. Provided always, that
nothing contained in this act shall extend to the eldest son or heir apparent of any peer or
lord of parliament, or of any person qualified to serve as knight of the shire, or to the members
for either of the universities in that part of Great Britain called England, or to the members
of that part of Great Britain called Scotland. Such was the substance of the bill, as originally
presented to the house of commons; but it was altered in such a manner as we are afraid will
fail in answering the salutary purposes for which it was intended by those who brought it into
the house. Notwithstanding the provisions made in the act as it now stands, any minister or
patron may still introduce his pensioners, clerks, and creatures into the house, by means of
the old method of temporary conveyance, though the farce must now be kept up till the member
shall have delivered in his schedule, taken his oath, and his seat in parliament; then he may
deliver up the conveyance, or execute a re-conveyance, without running any risk of losing his
seat, or of being punished for his fraud and perjury. The extensive influence of the crown,
the general corruptibility of individuals, and the obstacles so industriously thrown in the
way of every scheme contrived to vindicate the independency of parliaments, must have produced
very mortifying reflections in the breast of every Briton warmed with the genuine love of his
country. He must have perceived that all the bulwarks of the constitution were little better
than buttresses of ice, which would infallibly thaw before the heat of ministerial influence,
when artfully concentrated; that either a minister's professions of patriotism were insincere;
or his credit insufficient to effect any essential alteration in the unpopular measures of
government; and that, after all, the liberties of the nation could never be so firmly established,
as by the power, generosity, and virtue of a patriot king. This inference could not fail to
awake the remembrance of that amiable prince, whom fate untimely snatched from the eager hopes
and warm affection of a whole nation, before, he had it in his power to manifest and establish
his favourite maxim, "That a monarch's glory was inseparably connected with the happiness of
his people." [538] [See note 4 I, at the end of this Vol.]

{1760}

ACT FOR CONSOLIDATING ANNUITIES GRANTED IN 1759.

On the first day of February, a motion was made, and leave given, to bring in a bill for enabling
his majesty to make leases and copies of offices, lands, and hereditaments, parcel of his duchy
of Cornwall, or annexed to the same; accordingly it passed through both houses without opposition;
and enacted that all leases and grants made, or to be made, by his majesty, within seven years
next ensuing, in or annexed to the said duchy, under the limitations therein mentioned, should
be good and effectual in law against his majesty, his heirs, and successors, and against all
other persons that should hereafter inherit the said duchy, either by an act of parliament,
or any limitation whatsoever. This act appears the more extraordinary as the prince of Wales,
who has a sort of right by prescription to the duchy of Cornwall, was then of age, and might
have been put in possession of it by the passing of a patent. The house having perused an account
of the produce of the fund established for paying annuities granted in the year one thousand
seven hundred and fifty-nine, with the charge on that fund on the fifth day of January in the
succeeding year, it appeared that there had been a considerable deficiency in the said fund
on the fifth day of July preceding, and this had been made good out of the sinking fund, by
a resolution of the seventh of February, already particularized. They therefore instructed
the committee of ways and means to consider so much of the annuity and lottery act passed in
the preceding session as related to the three per centum annuities, amounting to the sum of
seven millions five hundred and ninety thousand pounds, granted in the year one thousand seven
hundred and fifty-nine; and also to consider so much of the said act as related to the subsidy
of poundage upon certain goods and merchandise to be imported into this kingdom, and the additional
inland duty on coffee and chocolate. The committee having taken these points into deliberation,
agreed to the two resolutions we have already mentioned with respect to the consolidation;
and a bill was brought in for adding those annuities granted in the year one thousand seven
hundred and fifty-nine, to the joint stock of throe per centum annuities consolidated by the
acts of the twenty-fifth, twenty-eighth, twenty-ninth, and thirty-second years of his majesty's
reign, and for several duties therein mentioned, to the sinking fund. The committee was afterwards
empowered to receive a clause for cancelling such lottery tickets as were made forth in pursuance
of an act passed in the thirtieth year of his majesty's reign, and were not then disposed of:
a clause for this purpose was accordingly added to the bill, which passed through both houses
without opposition, and received the royal assent at the end of the session.

BILL FOR SECURING MONIES FOR THE USE OF GREENWICH HOSPITAL.

On the twenty-ninth day of April, lord North presented to the house a bill for encouraging
the exportation of rum and spirits of the growth, produce, and manufacture of the British sugar-plantations,
from Great Britain, and of British spirits made from molasses; a bill which in a little time
acquired the sanction of the royal assent. Towards the end of April, admiral Town-shend presented
a bill for the more effectual securing the payment of such prize and bounty-monies as were
appropriated to the use of Greenwich hospital, by an act passed in the twenty-ninth year of
his majesty's reign. It was likewise enacted, that the agents for the distribution of bounty-bills
should insert, and publish under their hands, in the London Gazette, three days at least before
payment, public notifications of the day and year appointed for such payment, and also insert
therein their respective places of abode. The bill, even as it now stands, is liable to several
objections. It may be dangerous to leave the money of the unclaimed shares so long as three
years in the hands of the agent, who, together with his securities, may prove insolvent before
the expiration of that term: then the time prescribed to the sailors, within which their claim
is limited, appears to be too short, when we consider that they may be so circumstanced, turned
over to another ship, and conveyed to a distant part of the globe, that they shall have no
opportunity to claim payment; and should three years elapse before they could make application
to the agent, they would find their bounty or prize money appropriated to the use of Greenwich
hospital; nay, should they die in the course of the voyage, it would be lost to their heirs
and executors, who, being ignorant of their title, could not possibly claim within the time
limited.

{GEORGE II. A law was made for reviving and continuing so much of the act passed in the twenty-first
year of his majesty's reign as relates to the more effectual trial and punishment of high-treason
in the highlands of Scotland; and also for continuing two other acts passed in the nineteenth
and twenty-first years of his majesty's reign, so far as they relate to the more effectual
disarming the highlands of Scotland, and securing the peace thereof; and to allow further time
for making affidavits of the execution of articles or contracts of clerks to attorneys or solicitors,
and filing thereof. The king having been pleased to pardon George Keith, earl-marshal of Scotland,
who had been attainted for rebellion in the year one thousand seven hundred and sixteen, the
parliament confirmed this indulgence, by passing an act to enable the said George Keith, late
earl-marshal, to sue or entertain any action or suit, notwithstanding his attainder, and to
remove any disability in him, by reason of the said attainder, to take or inherit any real
or personal estate that might or should hereafter descend or come to him, or which he was entitled
to in reversion or remainder before his attainder. This nobleman, universally respected for
his probity and understanding, had been employed as ambassador to the court of France by the
king of Prussia, and was actually at this juncture in the service of that monarch, who in all
probability interceded with the king of England in his behalf. When his pardon had passed the
seals, he repaired to London, and was presented to his majesty, by whom he was very graciously
received.

SESSION CLOSED.

These, and a good number of other bills of less importance, both private and public, were passed
into laws by commission, on the twenty-second day of May, when the lord-keeper of the great
seal closed the session with a speech to both houses. He began with an assurance that his majesty
looked back on their proceedings with entire satisfaction. He said, the duty and affection
which they had expressed for the king's person and government, the zeal and unanimity they
had showed in maintaining the true interest of their country, could only be equalled by what
his majesty had formerly experienced from his parliament. He told them it would have given
his majesty the most sensible pleasure, had he been able to assure them that his endeavours
to promote a general peace had met with more suitable returns. He observed that his majesty,
in conjunction with his good brother and ally the king of Prussia, had chosen to give their
enemies proofs of this equitable disposition, in the midst of a series of glorious victories;
an opportunity the most proper to take such a step with dignity, and to manifest to all Europe
the purity and moderation of his views. After such a conduct, he said, the king had the comfort
to reflect that the further continuance of the calamities of war could not be imputed to him
or his allies; that he trusted in the blessing of heaven upon the justice of his arms, and
upon those ample means which the zeal of the parliament in so good a cause had wisely put into
his hands; that his future successes in carrying on the war would not fall short of the past;
and that, in the event, the public tranquillity would be restored on solid and durable foundations.
He acquainted them that his majesty had taken the most effectual care to augment the combined
army in Germany; and at the same time to keep up such a force at home as might frustrate any
attempts of the enemy to invade these kingdoms; such attempts as had hitherto ended only in
their own confusion. He took notice that the royal navy was never in a more flourishing and
respectable condition; and the signal victory obtained last winter over the French fleet on
their own coast, had given lustre to his majesty's arms, fresh spirit to his maritime forces,
and reduced the naval strength of France to a very low ebb. He gave them to understand that
his majesty had disposed his squadrons in such a manner as might best conduce to the annoyance
of his enemies; to the defence of his own dominions, both in Europe and America; to the preserving
and pursuing his conquests, as well as to the protection of the trade of his subjects, which
he had extremely at heart. He told the commons, that nothing could relieve his majesty's royal
mind, under the anxiety he felt for the burdens of his faithful subjects, but the public-spirited
cheerfulness with which their house had granted him such large supplies, and his conviction
that they were necessary for the security and essential interest of his kingdoms; he therefore
returned them his hearty thanks for these supplies, and assured them they should be duly applied
to the purposes for which they had been given. Finally, he recommended to both houses the continuance
of that union and good harmony which he had observed with so much pleasure, and from which
he had derived such important effects. He desired they would study to promote these desirable
objects, to support the king's government, and the good order of their respective counties,
and consult their own real happiness and prosperity.

CHAPTER XIX.

     Remarkable Detection of a Murder by William Andrew
     Horne..... Popular Clamor against Lord George Sackville.....
     His Address to the Public..... He demands a Court-
     martial..... Substance of the charge against him..... His
     Defence..... Remarks on it..... Sentence of the Court-
     martial..... Earl Ferrers apprehended for Murder..... Tried
     by the House of Peers..... Convicted, and executed at
     Tyburn..... Assassination of Mr. Matthews, by one Stirn, a
     Hessian..... New Bridge begun at Blackfriars.....
     Conflagration in Portsmouth Yard..... Number of Ships taken
     by the Enemy..... Progress of Monsieur Thurot..... He makes
     a Descent at Carrickfergus..... Is slain, and his Ships
     taken..... Exploit of Captain Kennedy..... Remarkable
     Adventure of five Irish Seamen..... The Ramillies Man of War
     wrecked upon the Bolthead..... Treaty with the
     Cherokees..... Hostilities recommenced..... Their Towns
     destroyed by Colonel Montgomery..... His Expedition to the
     Middle Settlements..... Pate of the Garrison at Port
     Loudoun..... The British Interest established on the
     Ohio..... The French undertake the Siege of Quebec.....
     Defeat Brigadier Murray, and oblige him to retire into the
     Town..... Quebec besieged..... The Enemy's Shipping
     destroyed..... They abandon the Siege..... General Amherst
     reduces the French Port at the Isle Royale..... and takes
     Montreal..... French Ships destroyed in the Bay of
     Chaleurs..... Total Reduction of Canada..... Demolition of
     Louisbourg..... Insurrection of the Negroes in Jamaica.....
     Action at Sea off Hispaniola..... Gallant Behaviour of
     Captains O'Brien and Taylor in the Leeward Islands.....
     Transactions in the East Indies..... Achievements in the Bay
     of Quiberon..... Admiral Rodney destroys some Vessels on the
     Coast of France..... Preparations for a secret
     Expedition..... Astronomers sent to the East Indies.....
     Earthquakes in Syria..... Wise Conduct of the Catholic
     King..... Affairs of Portugal..... Turkish Ship of the Line
     carried into Malta..... Patriotic Schemes of the King of
     Denmark..... Memorial presented by the British Ambassador to
     the States-General..... State of the Powers at War.....
     Death of the Landgrave of Hesse-Cassel..... Offers made by
     the Neutral Powers of a Place for holding a Congress.....
     Skirmishes in Westphalia during the Winter..... Exactions by
     the French in Westphalia..... Skirmish to the Advantage of
     the Allies at Vacha..... Situation of the French Armies.....
     Exploit of Colonel Luckner at Butzback..... The  French
     advance to Neustadt..... The Hereditary Prince of Brunswick
     defeated at Corback..... but retrieves his honour at
     Exdorf..... Victory obtained by the Allies at Warbourg.....
     The Hereditary Prince beats up the Quarters of the French at
     Zeirenberg..... Petty Advantages on both sides..... The
     Hereditary Prince marches to the Lower Rhine..... Is worsted
     at Canipen..... and repasses the Rhine..... Attempt of the
     Enemy against him..... Advantages gained by M. de
     Stainville..... The Allies and French go into Winter-
     quarters

DETECTION OF A MURDER.

The successes of the last campaign had flushed the whole nation with the most elevated hope
of future conquest, and the government was enabled to take every step which appeared necessary
to realize that sanguine expectation; but the war became every day more and more Germanised.
Notwithstanding the immense sums that were raised for the expenses of the current year; notwithstanding
the great number of land-forces maintained in the service, and the numerous fleets that filled
the harbours of Great Britain; we do not find that one fresh effort was made to improve the
advantages she had gained upon her own clement, or for pushing the war on national principles:
for the reduction of Canada was no more than the consequence of the measures which had been
taken in the preceding campaign. But, before we record the progress of the war, it may be necessary
to specify some domestic occurrences that for a little while engrossed the public attention.
In the month of December, in the preceding year, William Andrew Home, a gentleman of some fortune
in Derbyshire, was executed at Nottingham, in the seventy-fourth year of his age, for the murder
of an infant born of his own sister, in the year one thousand seven hundred and twenty-four.
On the third day after the birth, this brutal ruffian thrust the child into a linen bag, and
accompanied by his own brother on horseback, conveyed it to Annesley, in Nottinghamshire, where
it was next day found dead under a hay-stack. Though this cruel rustic knew how much he lay
at the mercy of his brother, whom he had made privy to this affair, far from endeavouring to
engage his secrecy by offices of kindness and marks of affection, he treated him as an alien
to his blood; not barely with indifference, but even with the most barbarous rigour. He not
only defrauded him of his right, but exacted of him the lowest menial services; beheld him
starving in a cottage, while he lived himself in affluence; and refused to relieve with a morsel
of charity the children of his own brother begging at his gate. It was the resentment of this
pride and barbarity which, in all likelihood, first impelled the other to revenge. He pretended
qualms of conscience, and disclosed the transaction of the child to several individuals. As
the brother was universally hated for the insolence and brutality of his disposition, information
was given against him, and a resolution formed to bring him to condign punishment. Being informed
of this design, he tampered with his brother, and desired that he would retract upon the trial
the evidence he had given before the justices. Though the brother rejected this scheme of subornation,
he offered to withdraw himself from the kingdom, if he might have five pounds to defray the
expense of his removal. So sordidly avaricious was the other, that he refused to advance this
miserable pittance, though he knew his own life depended upon his compliance. He was accordingly
apprehended, tried, and convicted on his brother's evidence; and then he confessed the particulars
of his exposing the infant. He denied, indeed, that he had any thought the child would perish,
and declared he intended it as a present to a gentleman at whose gate it was laid; butas he
appeared to be a hardened miscreant, devoid of humanity, stained with the complicated crimes
of tyranny, fraud, rapine, incest, and murder, very little credit is due to his declaration.--In
the course of the same month, part of Westminster was grievously alarmed by a dreadful conflagration,
which broke out in the house of a cabinet-maker near Covent-garden, raged with great fury,
and reduced near twenty houses to ashes. Many others were damaged, and several persons either
burned in their apartments, or buried under the ruins. The bad consequences of this calamity
were in a great measure alleviated by the humanity of the public, and the generous compassion
of the prince of Wales, who contributed liberally to the relief of the sufferers.

CLAMOUR AGAINST LORD SACKVILLE.

But no subject so much engrossed the conversations and passions of the public as did the case
of lord George Sackville, who had by this time resigned his command in Germany, and returned
to England, the country which, of all others, it would have been his interest to avoid at this
juncture, if he was really conscious of the guilt the imputation of which his character now
sustained. With the first tidings of the battle fought at Minden the defamation of this officer
arrived. He was accused of having disobeyed orders, and his conduct represented as infamous
in every particular. These were the suggestions of a vague report, which no person could trace
to its origin; yet this report immediately gave birth to one of the most inflammatory pamphlets
that ever was exhibited to the public. The first charge had alarmed the people of England,
jealous in honour, sudden and rash in their sentiments, and obstinately adhering to the prejudices
they have espoused. The implied accusation in the orders of prince Ferdinand, and the combustible
matter superadded by the pamphlet-writer, kindled up such a blaze of indignation in the minds
of the people, as admitted of no temperament or control. An abhorrence and detestation of lord
George Sackville, as a coward and a traitor, became the universal passion, which acted by contagion,
infecting all degrees of people from the cottage to the throne; and no individual, who had
the least regard for his own character and quiet, would venture to preach up moderation, or
even advise a suspension of belief until more certain information could be received. Fresh
fuel was continually thrown in by obscure authors of pamphlets and newspapers, who stigmatized
and insulted with such virulent perseverance, that no one would have imagined they were actuated
by personal motives, not retained by mercenary booksellers, against that unfortunate nobleman.
Not satisfied with inventing circumstances to his dishonour, in his conduct on the last occasion,
they pretended to take a retrospective view of his character, and produced a number of anecdotes
to his prejudice, which had never before seen the light, and but for this occasion had probably
never been known. Not that all the writings which appeared on this subject contained fresh
matters of aggravation against lord George Sackville. Some writers, either animated by the
hope of advantage, or hired to betray the cause which they undertook to defend, entered the
lists as professed champions of the accused, assumed the pen in his behalf, devoid of sense,
unfurnished with materials, and produced performances which could not fail to injure his character
among all those who believed that he countenanced their endeavours, and supplied them with
the facts and arguments of his defence. Such precisely was the state of the dispute when lord
George arrived in London. While prince Ferdinand was crowned with laurel; while the king of
Great Britain approved his conduct, and, as the most glorious mark of that approbation, invested
him with the order of the garter, while his name was celebrated through all England, and extolled,
in the warmest expressions of hyperbole, above all the heroes of antiquity; every mouth was
opened in execration of the late commander of the British troops in Germany. He was now made
acquainted with the particulars of his imputed guilt, which he had before indistinctly learned.
He was accused of having disobeyed three successive orders he had received from the general,
during the action at Minden, to advance with the cavalry of the right wing, which he commanded,
and sustain the infantry that were engaged; and, after the cavalry were put in motion, of having
halted them unnecessarily, and marched so slow, that they could not reach the place of action
in time to be of any service, by which conduct the opportunity was lost of attacking the enemy
when they gave way, and rendering the victory more glorious and decisive. The first step which
lord George took towards his own vindication with the public, was in printing a short address,
entreating them to suspend their belief with respect to his character, until the charge brought
against him should be legally discussed by a court-martial, a trial which he had already solicited,
and was in hopes of obtaining.

HE DEMANDS A COURT-MARTIAL.

Finding himself unable to stem the tide of popular prejudice, which flowed against him with
irresistible impetuosity, he might have retired in quiet and safety, and left it to ebb at
leisure. This would have been generally deemed a prudential step, by all those who consider
the unfavourable medium through which every particular of his conduct must have been viewed
at that juncture, even by men who cherished the most candid intentions; when they reflected
upon the power, influence, and popularity of his accuser, the clanger of aggravating the resentment
of the sovereign, already too conspicuous, and the risk of hazarding his life on the honour
and integrity of witnesses, who might think their fortunes depended upon the nature of the
evidence they should give. Notwithstanding those suggestions, lord George, seemingly impatient
of the imputation under which his character laboured, insisted upon the privilege of a legal
trial, which was granted accordingly, after the judges had given it as their opinion that he
might be tried by a court-martial, though he no longer retained any commission in the service.
A court of general officers being appointed and assembled to inquire into his conduct, the
judge-advocate gave him to understand that he was charged with having disobeyed the orders
of prince Ferdinand, relative to the battle of Minden. That the reader may have the more distinct
idea of the charge, it is necessary to remind him, that lord George Sackville commanded the
cavalry of the right wing, consisting of Hanoverian and British horse, disposed in two lines,
the British being at the extremity of the right, extending to the village of Hartum; the Hanoverian
cavalry forming the left, that reached almost to an open wood or grove, which divided the horse
from the line of infantry, particularly from that part of the line of infantry consisting of
two brigades of British foot, the Hanoverian guards, and Hardenberg's regiment. This was the
body of troops which sustained the brunt of the battle with the most incredible courage and
perseverance. They of their own accord advanced to attack the left of the enemy's cavalry,
through a most dreadful fire of artillery and small arms, to which they were exposed in front
and flank; they withstood the repeated attacks of the whole French gendarmerie, whom at length
they totally routed, together with a body of Saxon troops on their left, and to their valour
the victory was chiefly owing. The ground from which these troops advanced was a kind of heath
or plain, which opened a considerable way to the left, where the rest of the army was formed
in order of battle; but on the right it was bounded by the wood, on the other side of which
the cavalry of the right wing was posted, having in front the village of Halen, from whence
the French had been driven by the piquets in the army there posted, and in front of them a
windmill, situated in the middle space between them and a battery placed on the left of the enemy.

Early in the morning captain Malhorti had, by order of prince Ferdinand, posted the cavalry
of the right wing in the situation we have just described; the village of Hartum with enclosures
on the right, a narrow wood on the left, the village of Halen in their front, and a windmill
in the middle of an open plain, which led directly to the enemy. In this position lord George
Sackville was directed to remain, until he should receive further orders; and here it was those
orders were given which he was said to have disobeyed. Indeed he was previously charged with
having neglected the orders of the preceding evening, which imported that the horses should
be saddled at one in the morning, though the tents were not to be struck, nor the troops under
arms, until they should receive further orders. He was accused of having disobeyed these orders,
and of having come late into the field, after the cavalry was formed. Captain Winchingrode,
aidecamp to prince Ferdinand, declared upon oath, that while the infantry of the right wing
were advancing towards the enemy for the second time, he was sent with orders to lord George
Sackville to advance with the cavalry of the right wing, and sustain the infantry, which was
going to engage, by forming the horse under his command, upon the heath, in a third line behind
the regiments; that he delivered these orders to lord George Sackville, giving him to understand,
that he should march the cavalry through the woods or trees on his left to the heath, where
they were to be formed; that on his return to the heath, he met colonel Fitzroy riding at full
gallop towards lord George; and that he (Winchingrode) followed him back, in order to hasten
the march of the cavalry. Colonel Ligonier, another of the prince's aidsdecamp, deposed, that
he carried orders from the general to lord George to advance with the cavalry, in order to
profit from the disorder which appeared in the enemy's cavalry; that lord George made no answer
to these orders, but turning to the troops, commanded them to draw their swords, and march;
that the colonel seeing them advance a few paces on the right forwards, told his lordship he
must march to the left; that in the meantime colonel Fitzroy arriving with orders for the British
cavalry only to advance, lord George said the orders were contradictory; and colonel Ligonier
replied, they differed only in numbers, but the destination of his march was the same, to the
left. Colonel Fitzroy, the third aidecamp to prince Ferdinand, gave evidence that when he told
lord George it was the prince's order for the British cavalry to advance towards the left,
his lordship observed that it was different from the order brought by colonel Ligonier, and
he could not think the prince intended to break the line; that he asked which way the cavalry
was to march, and who was to be their guide; that when he (the aidecamp) offered to lead the
column through the wood on the left, his lordship seemed still dissatisfied with the order,
saying, it did not agree with the order brought by colonel Ligonier, and desired to be conducted
in person to the prince, that he might have an explanation from his own mouth; a resolution
which was immediately executed. The next evidence, an officer of rank in the army, made oath
that, in his opinion, when the orders were delivered to lord George, his lordship was alarmed
to a very great degree, and seemed to be in the utmost confusion. A certain nobleman, of high
rank and unblemished reputation, declared, that captain Winchingrode having told him it was
absolutely necessary that the cavalry should march, and form a line to support the foot, he
had given orders to the second line to march, and form a line to support the foot; that as
soon as they arrived at the place where the action began, he was met by colonel Fitzroy, with
an order for the cavalry to advance as fast as possible; that in marching to this place, an
order came to halt, until they could be joined by the first line of cavalry; that afterwards,
in advancing, they were again halted by lord George Sackville; that, in his opinion, they might
have marched with more expedition, and even come up in time enough to act against the enemy:
some other officers who were examined on this subject, agreed with the marquis in these sentiments.

