This outbreak was followed by the usual fit of repentance, in which the General reproached
himself for his hastiness. To be sure, he had been annoyed that the wedding should have been
put off for so long. In his haste he had said derogatory things about Robin in his heart, which
was unreasonable. The fellow was a Member of Parliament and had to stick to his post, to stick
to his post like a soldier. Yet, there would be all those weeks of June and July when bad news
might come any day about Langrishe: and Nell would be in London and would hear of it. 

"I can not stand it - I can not bear it," she moaned!. "I shall perish in it - I would be bad
if I stay here - in common, malicious - nasty - very, very small will I, if I stay here any
longer ... He took away everything - and it is up to me also still take. You already see and
hear nothing but him! You are already enchanted - Richard, did you get your poor mom did not love
"?

"But, mother -," cried the boy, sat up quickly and saw his mother with his bright eyes angrily,
"you talk like that? I do not even know you anymore ... I've love, that's natural. May I therefore
do not love another man ... Mum - he - he is still my father!

"

"Okay - so choose," said Martha!.

He came up the stairs, looking sadder and sterner than was his wont. He remembered how all
last winter he had run up those stairs like a school-boy, being so glad at last to get to the
hour he had desired all day. As he passed up the staircase now he looked at the walls, distempered
a dirty pink. Outside Mary's door they were adorned by the effusions of amateur artists, the
children of the working women, messenger boys, casual urchins, with the desire of their kind
for scribbling. It was all quite unlovely, yet it had made him happy to come there. She
was peaceful and happy was in her offspring. No idea she had ever worried that her once more
mental suffering could be saved up, as it in recent weeks had been through.

She heard the door go quietly, heard the bare feet tapping. She turned round from her desk as he came in, and, jumping up
at sight of him, she came to meet him with an outstretched hand.

"Congratulate me," she said. "The book is finished and accepted. Strangmans have taken it.
They took only a week to decide. I am wild with pride and joy. Maurice Ilbert is one of their
readers. He got it to read and recommended it enthusiastically. They are to publish it in June.
Wasn't it generous of him, because there is so little of it he can agree with?"

"Oh, Ilbert's conscience is pretty elastic, I should say, and he can agree with many things,"
Sir Robin answered. He felt vaguely annoyed that Ilbert should have had anything to do with
Mary or her book. Ilbert was one of the younger school of Tories, a free-lance he called himself,
handsome, conceited, immensely clever, a golden youth with an air of Oxford and the Schools
added to him. He was one of the youngest members of Parliament, and was gifted with a dazzling
and impertinent wit. Sir Robin had occasionally smarted under Ilbert's sallies. He was a target
for them, with his serious and simple views, his lean air of Don Quixote.

Mary looked at him reproachfully, as though the speech grieved her.

"He is very generous," she repeated. "He has come to see me. I found him most sympathetic.
It is not a question of parties. He thinks awfully well of the book. He says it will stir the
public conscience. To be sure, it is written out of experience, just the plain story of things
as they are. 

They sat for a while been swallowed up in the sultry summer night, silent each other or talked
quietly about the details of Martha's plan.

       Richard finally returned back to his bed and fell immediately into
a deep, heavy sleep.

* * * * *

Rolfers walked across the yard into the barn.

Luetje should clean the horse and harness. He Richard wanted to go over land, to show him
a certain point, from which he the picture was painted, which intended to buy the Hamburger Kunsthalle.
He was in good mood, whistling, in memory of the merry little feast on the veranda Melody of
"Germany, Germany above everything".

Yes, thank God, the taking of Lemberg, the breakthrough of Mackensen - but it was a wide-open door
created by the success of German arms storming forward could pass into it to Russia. Germany would
not go under ... It would live and Win ... And his eyes looked redeemed in the future. The terrible pressure
that all the recent months had been on his chest was gone. He was able to breathe freely -
To live and look forward. His ego was dead - died in a thousand bitter pain. This hard stubborn
ego that was only there to make the world in order that a center vortex circled, which wanted
only himself and sought, in all art only themselves to represent had to make, and therefore it never
reached the highest ... He knew very well. Even with two healthy arms and hands, he's never
had prepared and obtained, always in Theories tormented ... The boy
- who was working towards it much more naive, than he ever could.
At the end of the Richard reached in the art, which he so fervently
sought his life. Could he save him only from the Academy's economy,
the envious look on his rival, the yaw for success, to stir. I am sure
that you will be."

He looked at her with relief, which was not altogether agreeable. He had not done her any wrong
after all. She was not angry with him. But, to be sure, why should she be? It was unlikely
that she would have taken more than a friendly interest in him. He mocked at himself, and thought
of his harsh uncomeliness. If he had been Ilbert now his conduct of all this winter past would
have been unpardonable. But Ilbert and he were made in a different mould. Oddly, the thought
did not comfort him--was a bitter one, rather.

"Won't you sit down and tell me about it?" Mary said, her eyes looking at him frankly and kindly.
"I am not at all busy. The business of the Bureau is pretty well over for the day, and I can
finish my proofs at home. Do, Sir Robin."

She pushed a chair towards him, and he sat down in it. He felt that he ought to go. It was
a concession to his own weakness that he stayed. And he had no inclination at all to talk about
his engagement. He tried to say something, tried to imagine what a man happily engaged to be
married would find to say to a sympathetic woman-friend about it. He could think of nothing,
only that so far as he could see there was no consciousness in the serious bright eyes that
watched him. To be sure he ought to be glad. He would be the most miserable hound on earth
if he wished her to be unhappy because he was marrying his cousin. Yet he was not glad of that
ready sympathy.

"Well," she said at last, "you have nothing to tell me."

"What can I say"--he laughed awkwardly--"that I have not already said? We have been brought
up like brother and sister, but our elders always expected us to marry when we should be old
enough. I break it. "

Her eyes wandered helplessly. "Maybe it's too late," she said suddenly pressed, as under a
too heavy burden of sorrow. "Yes, I feel it, just stay with him ...
Let me go, Richard, hold me back. It was a strange thing to her that lovers should take
it easy.

"Yes, that was it."

