Now the height was reached where he usually stayed, and where he was going to remain for a
while to-day. It was a little green table-land, with so broad a projection that one could see
from the top all round about and far, far down into the valley. This projection was called
the Pulpit-rock, and here Moni could often stay for hours at a time, gazing about him and whistling
away, while his little goats quite contentedly sought their feed around him.

As soon as Moni arrived, he took his provision bag from his back, laid it in a little hole
in the ground, which he had dug out for this purpose, then went to the Pulpit-rock and threw
himself on the grass in order to enjoy himself fully.

The sky had now become a deep blue; above were the high mountains with peaks towering to the
sky and great ice-fields appearing, and far away down below the green valley shone in the morning
light. Moni lay there, looking about, singing and whistling. The mountain wind cooled his warm
face, and as soon as he stopped whistling, the birds piped all the more lustily and flew up
into the blue sky. Moni was indescribably happy. From time to time Maggerli came to Moni and
rubbed her head around on his shoulder, as she always did out of sheer affection. Then she
bleated quite fondly, went to Moni's other side and rubbed her head on the other shoulder.
The other goats also, first one and then another, came to look at their keeper and each had
her own way of paying the visit.

The brown one, his own goat, came very cautiously and looked at him to see if he was all right,
then she would stand and gaze at him until he said: "Yes, yes, Braunli, it's all right, go
and look for your fodder."

The young white one and Swallow, so called because she was so small and nimble and darted everywhere,
like swallows into their holes, always rushed together upon Moni, so that they would have thrown
him down, if he had not already been stretched out on the ground, and then they immediately,
darted off again.

The shiny Blackie, the goat belonging to the landlord of the Bath House, Maggerli's mother,
was a little proud; she came only to within a few steps of Moni, looked at him with her head
lifted, as if she wouldn't appear too familiar, and then went her way again. The big Sultan,
the billy-goat, never showed himself but once, then he pushed away all he found near Moni,
and bleated several times as significantly as if he had information to give about the condition
of the flock, whose leader he felt himself to be.

Little Maggerli alone never allowed herself to be crowded away from her protector; if the billy-goat
came and tried to push her aside, she crept so far under Moni's arm or head that the big Sultan
no longer came near her, and so under Moni's protection the little kid was not the least bit
afraid of him. Otherwise she would have trembled if he came near her.

Thus the sunny morning had passed; Moni had already taken his midday meal and now stood thinking
as he leaned on his stick, which he often needed there, for it was very useful in climbing
up and down. He was thinking whether he would go up to a new side of the rocks, for he wanted
to go higher this afternoon with the goats, but the question was, to which side? He decided
to take the left, for in that direction were the three Dragon-stones, around which grew such
tender shrubs that it was a real feast for the goats.

The way was steep, and there were dangerous places in the rugged wall of rock; but he knew
a good path, and the goats were so sensible and did not easily go astray. He began to climb
and all his goats gayly clambered after him, some in front, some behind him, little Maggerli
always quite close to him; occasionally he held her fast and pulled her along with him, when
he came to a very steep place.

All went quite well and now they were at the top, and with high bounds the goats ran immediately
to the green bushes, for they knew well the fine feed which they had often nibbled up here before.

"Be quiet! Be quiet!" commanded Moni, "don't push each other to the steep places, for in a
moment one of you might go down and have your legs broken. Swallow! Swallow! what are you thinking
of?" he called full of excitement, up to the goat, for the nimble Swallow had climbed up to
the high Dragon-stones and was now standing on the outermost edge of one of them and looking
quite impertinently down on him. He climbed up quickly, for only a single step more and Swallow
would be lying below at the foot of the precipice. Moni was very agile; in a few minutes he
had climbed up on the crag, quickly seized Swallow by the leg, and pulled her down.

"Now come with me, you foolish little beast, you," scolded Moni, as he dragged Swallow along
with him to the others, and held her fast for a while, until she had taken a good bite of a
shrub and thought no more of running away.

"Where is Maggerli?" screamed Moni suddenly, as he noticed Blackie standing alone in a steep
place, and not eating, but quietly looking around her. The little young kid was always near
Moni, or running after its mother.

"What have you done with your little kid, Blackie?" he called in alarm and sprang towards the
goat. She seemed quite strange, was not eating, but stood still in the same spot and pricked
up her ears inquiringly. Moni placed himself beside her and looked up and down. Now he heard
a faint, pitiful bleating; it was Maggerli's voice, and it came from below so plaintive and
beseeching. Moni lay down on the ground and leaned over. There below something was moving;
now he saw quite plainly, far down Maggerli was hanging to the bough of a tree which grew out
of the rock, and was moaning pitifully; she must have fallen over.

Fortunately the bough had caught her, otherwise she would have fallen into the ravine and met
a sorry death. Even now if she could no longer hold to the bough, she would fall into the depths
and be dashed to pieces.

In the greatest anguish he called down: "Hold fast, Maggerli, hold fast to the bough! See,
I am coming to get you!" But how could he reach there? The wall of rock was so steep here,
Moni saw very well that it would be impossible to go down that way. But the little goat must
be down there somewhere near the Rain-rock, the overhanging stone under which good protection
was to be found in rainy weather; the goat-boys had always spent rainy days there, therefore
the stone had been called from old times the Rain-rock. From there, Moni thought he could climb
across over the rocks and so bring back the little kid.

He quickly whistled the flock together and went with them down to the place from which he could
reach the Rain-rock. There he left them to graze and went to the rock. Here he immediately
saw, just a little bit above him, the bough of the tree, and the kid hanging to it. He saw
very well that it would not be an easy task to climb up there and then down again with Maggerli
on his back, but there was no other way to rescue her. He also thought the dear Lord would
surely stand by him, and then he could not possibly fail. He folded his hands, looked up to
heaven and prayed: "Oh, dear Lord, help me, so that I can save Maggerli!"

Then he was full of trust that all would go well, and he bravely clambered up the rock until
he reached the bough above. Here he clung fast with both feet, lifted the trembling, moaning
little creature to his shoulders, and then climbed with great caution back down again. When
he had the firm earth under his feet once more and had saved the terror-stricken kid, he was
so glad he had to offer thanks aloud and cried up to heaven:

"Oh, dear Lord, I thank Thee a thousand times for having helped us so well! Oh, we are both
so glad for it!" Then he sat down on the ground a little while, and stroked the kid, for she
was still trembling in all her delicate limbs, and comforted her for enduring so much suffering.

As it was soon time for departure, Moni placed the little goat on his shoulders again, and
said anxiously:

"Come, you poor Maggerli, you are still trembling; you cannot walk home to-day, I must carry
you--" and so he carried the little creature, clinging close to him, all the way down.

Paula was standing on the last rise in front of the Bath House, waiting for the goat-boy. Her
aunt had accompanied her. When Moni came down with his burden on his back, Paula wanted to
know if the kid was sick, and showed great interest. When Moni saw this, he at once sat down
on the ground in front of Paula and told her his day's experience with Maggerli.

The young lady showed very keen interest in the affair and stroked the little rescued creature,
which now lay quietly in Moni's lap and looked very pretty, with its white feet, and the beautiful
black pelt on its back. It was very willing to be stroked by her.

"Now sing your song again for me, while you are sitting here," said Paula. Moni was in such
a gay frame of mind that he willingly and heartily began and sang his whole song to the end.

This pleased Paula exceptionally well and she said he must sing it to her often again. Then
the whole company went together down to the Bath House. Here the kid was laid in its bed, Moni
said farewell, and Paula went back to her room to talk with her aunt longer about the goat-boy,
whose merry morning song she had enjoyed again.

CHAPTER III

A VISIT

Thus many days passed by, one as sunny and clear as the other, for it was an unusually beautiful
summer, and the sky remained blue and cloudless from morning till evening.

Every morning, early, without exception the goat-boy, singing lustily, went by the Bath House.
Every evening he came back again singing lustily. All the guests were so accustomed to the
merry sound that not one would have willingly missed it.

More than all the others, Paula delighted in Moni's joyfulness and went out almost every evening
to meet him, and talk with him.

One sunny morning Moni had once more reached the Pulpit-rock, and was about to throw himself
down, when he changed his mind. "No, go on! The last time you had to leave all the nice little
plants because we had to go after Maggerli; now we will go up there again, so that you can
finish nibbling them!"

The goats all leaped with delight after him, for they knew they were going up to the lovely
bushes on the Dragon-stones. To-day Moni held his little Maggerli the whole time fast in his
arms, pulled the sweet plants himself from the rocks and let her eat out of his hand. This
pleased the little goat best of all. She rubbed her head quite contentedly from time to time
against Moni's shoulder and bleated happily. So the whole morning passed, before Moni noticed,
from his own hunger, that it had grown late before he was aware of it. But he had left his
luncheon below near the Pulpit-rock, in the little hole, for he had intended to return again
at noon.

