Several months elapsed, and no remittance arrived from my father. I was now near fourteen years
old, and my mother began to foresee the vicissitudes to which my youth might be exposed, unprotected,
tenderly educated, and without the advantages of fortune. My father's impracticable scheme
had impoverished his fortune, and deprived his children of that affluence which, in their in
fancy, they had been taught to hope for. I cannot speak of my own person, but my partial friends
were too apt to flatter me. I was naturally of a pensive and melancholy character; my reflections
on the changes of fortune frequently gave me an air of dejection which perhaps etched an interest
beyond what might have been awakened by the vivacity or bloom of juvenility.

I adored my mother. She was the mildest, the most unoffending of existing mortals; her temper
was cheerful, as her heart was innocent; she beheld her children as it seemed fatherless, and
she resolved, by honourable means, to support them. A prouder heart never palpitated in the
breast of man than that of my father: tenacious of fame, ardent in the pursuit of visionary
schemes, he could not endure the exposure of his altered fortune; while Hope still beguiled
him with her flattering promise that time would favour his projects, and fortune, at some future
period, reward him with success.

At the expiration of eight months my mother, by my father's positive command, broke up her
establishment and returned to London. She engaged lodgings in the neighbourhood of Marylebone.
My father then resided in Green Street, Grosvenor Square. His provision for his family was
scanty, his visits few. He had a new scheme on foot respecting the Labrador coast, the particulars
of which I do not remember, and all his zeal, united with all his interest, was employed in
promoting its accomplishment. My mother, knowing that my father publicly resided with his mistress,
did not even hope for his returning affection. She devoted herself to her children, and endured
her sorrows with the patience of conscious rectitude.

At this period my father frequently called upon us, and often attended me while we walked in
the fields near Marylebone. His conversation was generally of a domestic nature, and he always
lamented that fatal attachment, which was now too strongly cemented by time and obligations
ever to be dissolved without an ample provision for Elenor, which was the name of my father's
mistress. In one of our morning walks we called upon the Earl of Northington, my father having
some commercial business to communicate to his lordship. Lord Northington then resided in Berkeley
Square, two doors from Hill Street, in the house which is now occupied by Lord Robert Spencer.
We were received with the most marked attention and politeness (I was presented as the goddaughter
of the late Chancellor Lord Northington), and my father was requested to dine with his lordship
a few days after. From this period I frequently saw Lord Northington, and always experienced
from him the most flattering and gratifying civility. I was then a child, not more than fourteen
years of age.

The finishing points of my education I received at Oxford House, Marylebone. I was at this
period within a few months of fifteen years of age, tall, and nearly such as my partial friends,
the few whose affection has followed me from childhood, remember me. My early love for lyric
harmony had led me to a fondness for the more sublime scenes of dramatic poetry. I embraced
every leisure moment to write verses; I even fancied that I could compose a tragedy, and more
than once unsuccessfully attempted the arduous undertaking.

The dancing-master at Oxford House, Mr. Hussey, was then ballet-master at Covent Garden Theatre.
Mrs. Hervey, the governess, mentioned me to him as possessing an extraordinary genius for dramatic
exhibitions. My figure was commanding for my age, and (my father's pecuniary embarrassments
augmenting by the failure of another American project) my mother was consulted as to the propriety
of my making the stage my profession. Many cited examples of females who, even in that perilous
and arduous situation, preserved an unspotted fame, inclined her to listen to the suggestion,
and to allow of my consulting some master of the art as to my capability of becoming an ornament
to the theatre.

Previous to this idea my father had again quitted England. He left his wife with assurances
of good-will, his children with all the agonies of parental regret. When he took leave of my
mother, his emphatic words were these,--I never shall forget them--"Take care that no dishonour
falls upon my daughter. If she is not safe at my return, I will annihilate you!" My mother
heard the stern injunction, and trembled while he repeated it.

I was, in consequence of my wish to appear on the stage, introduced to Mr. Hull,[6] of Covent
Garden Theatre; he then resided in King Street, Soho. He heard me recite some passages of the
character of Jane Shore, and seemed delighted with my attempt. I was shortly after presented
by a friend of my mother's, to Mr. Garrick;[7] Mr. Murphy,[8] the celebrated dramatic poet,
was one of the party, and we passed the evening at the house of the British Roscius in the
Adelphi. This was during the last year that he dignified the profession by his public appearance.
Mr. Garrick's encomiums were of the most gratifying kind. He determined that he would appear
in the same play with me on the first night's trial; but what part to choose for my debut was
a difficult question. I was too young for anything beyond the girlish character, and the dignity
of tragedy afforded but few opportunities for the display of such juvenile talents. After some
hesitation my tutor fixed on the part of Cordelia. His own Lear can never be forgotten.

It was not till the period when everything was arranged for my appearance that the last solemn
injunction, so emphatically uttered by my father, nearly palsied my mother's resolution. She
dreaded the perils, the temptations to which an unprotected girl would be exposed in so public
a situation; while my ardent fancy was busied in contemplating a thousand triumphs in which
my vanity would be publicly gratified without the smallest sacrifice of my private character.

While this plan was in agitation, I was one evening at Drury Lane Theatre with my mother and
a small party of her friends, when an officer entered the box. His eyes were fixed on me, and
his persevering attention at length nearly overwhelmed me with confusion. The entertainment
being finished, we departed. The stranger followed us. At that period my mother resided in
Southampton Buildings, Chancery Lane, for the protection which a venerable and respectable
friend offered at a moment when it was so necessary. This friend was the late Samuel Cox, Esq.,
the intimate friend of Mr. Garrick, and an honour to those laws of which he was a distinguished
professor.

It was Mr. Garrick's particular request that I would frequent the theatre as much as possible
till the period fixed on for my appearance on the stage. I had now just completed my fifteenth
year, and my little heart throbbed with impatience for the hour of trial. My tutor was most
sanguine in his expectations of my success, and every rehearsal seemed to strengthen his flattering
opinion.

It happened that, several evenings following, the stranger officer, whose name, for motives
of delicacy toward his family, I forbear to mention, followed me to and from the theatre. It
was in vain that he offered his attentions in the box; my mother's frown and assiduous care
repulsed them effectually. But the perseverance of a bad mind in the accomplishment of a bad
action is not to be subdued. A letter was written and conveyed to me through the hands of a
female servant; I opened it; I read a declaration of the most ardent love. The writer avowed
himself the son of Lady----, and offered marriage; he was graceful and handsome. I instantly
delivered the letter to my mother, and, shortly after, he was, by an acquaintance, presented
with decorous ceremony.

The idea of my appearing on the stage seemed to distract this accomplished suitor. My mother,
who but half approved a dramatic life, was more than half inclined to favour the addresses
of Captain ----. The injunction of my father every hour became more indelibly impressed on
her memory; she knew his stern and invincible sense of honour too well to hazard the thought
of awakening it to vengeance.

After a short period, the friend who had presented Captain----, alarmed for my safety, and
actuated by a liberal wish to defend me from the artifice of his associate, waited on my mother,
and, after some hesitation, informed her that my lover was already married; that he had a young
and amiable wife in a sister kingdom, and that he apprehended some diabolical stratagem for
the enthralment of my honour. My mother's consternation was infinite. The important secret
was communicated to me, and I felt little regret in the loss of a husband when I reflected
that a matrimonial alliance would have compelled me to relinquish my theatrical profession.

I had, also, at this period, another professed admirer, a man of splendid fortune, but nearly
old enough to be my grandfather. This suit I never would listen to; and the drama, the delightful
drama, seemed the very criterion of all human happiness.

I now found myself an object of attention whenever I appeared at the theatre. I had been too
often in public not to be observed, and it was buzzed about that I was the juvenile pupil of
Garrick,--the promised Cordelia. My person improved daily; yet a sort of dignified air, which
from a child I had acquired, effectually shielded me from the attacks of impertinence or curiosity.
Garrick was delighted with everything I did. He would sometimes dance a minuet with me, sometimes
request me to sing the favourite ballads of the day; but the circumstance which most pleased
him was my tone of voice, which he frequently told me closely resembled that of his favourite
Cibber.[9]

Never shall I forget the enchanting hours which I passed in Mr. Garrick's society; he appeared
to me as one who possessed more power, both to awe and to attract, than any man I ever met
with. His smile was fascinating, but he had at times a restless peevishness of tone which excessively
affected his hearers; at least it affected me so that I never shall forget it.

Opposite to the house in which I resided lived John Vernon, Esq., an eminent solicitor. I observed
a young inmate of his habitation frequently watching me with more than ordinary attention.
He was handsome in person, and his countenance was overcast by a sort of languor, the effect
of sickness, which rendered it peculiarly interesting. Frequently, when I approached the window
of our drawing-room, this young observer would bow or turn away with evident emotion. I related
the circumstance to my mother, and from that time the lower shutters of our windows were perpetually
closed. The young lawyer often excited my mirth, and my mother's indignation; and the injunction
of my father was frequently repeated by her, with the addition of her wish, that I was "once
well married."

Every attention which was now paid to me augmented my dear mother's apprehensions. She fancied
every man a seducer, and every hour an hour of accumulating peril! I know what she was doomed
to feel, for that Being who formed my sensitive and perpetually aching heart knows that I have
since felt it.

Among other friends who were in the habit of visiting my mother there was one, a Mr. Wayman,
an attorney of whom she entertained the highest opinion. He was distinguished by the patronage
of Mr. Cox, and his reputation required no other voucher. One evening a party of six was proposed
for the following Sunday; with much persuasion my mother consented to go, and to allow that
I should also attend her. Greenwich was the place fixed on for the dinner, and we prepared
for the day of recreation. It was then the fashion to wear silks. I remember that I wore a
nightgown of pale blue lustring, with a chip hat trimmed with ribands of the same colour. Never
was I dressed so perfectly to my own satisfaction; I anticipated a day of admiration. Heaven
can bear witness that to me it was a day of fatal victory!

On our stopping at the "Star and Garter," at Greenwich, the person who came to hand me from
the carriage was our opposite neighbour in Southampton Buildings. I was confused, but my mother
was indignant. Mr. Wayman presented his young friend,--that friend who was ordained to be my
husband!

Our party dined, and early in the evening we returned to London. Mr. Robinson remained at Greenwich
for the benefit of the air, being recently recovered from a fit of sickness. During the remainder
of the evening Mr. Wayman expatiated on the many good qualities of his friend Mr. Robinson:
spoke of his future expectations a rich old uncle; of his probable advancement in his profession;
and, more than all, of his enthusiastic admiration of me.

A few days after, Mr. Robinson paid my mother a visit. We had now removed to Villars Street,
York Buildings. My mother's fondness for books of a moral and religious character was not lost
upon my new lover, and elegantly bound editions of Hervey's "Meditations," with some others
of a similar description, were presented as small tokens of admiration and respect. My mother
was beguiled by these little interesting attentions, and soon began to feel a strong predilection
in favour of Mr. Robinson.

Every day some new mark of respect augmented my mother's favourable opinion; till Mr. Robinson
became so great a favourite that he seemed to her the most perfect of existing beings. Just
at this period my brother George sickened for the smallpox; my mother idolised him; he was
dangerously ill. Mr. Robinson was indefatigable in his attentions, and my appearance on the
stage was postponed till the period of his perfect recovery. Day and night Mr. Robinson devoted
himself to the task of consoling my mother, and of attending to her darling boy; hourly, and
indeed momentarily, Mr. Robinson's praises were reiterated with enthusiasm by my mother. He
was "the kindest, the best of mortals!" the least addicted to worldly follies, and the man,
of all others, whom she should adore as a son-in-law.

My brother recovered at the period when I sickened from the infection of his disease. I felt
little terror at the approaches of a dangerous and deforming malady; for, I know not why, but
personal beauty has never been to me an object of material solicitude. It was now that Mr.
Robinson exerted all his assiduity to win my affections; it was when a destructive disorder
menaced my features and the few graces that nature had lent them, that he professed a disinterested
fondness; every day he attended with the zeal of a brother, and that zeal made an impression
of gratitude upon my heart, which was the source of all my succeeding sorrows.

