In my lecture I have drawn a strong distinction, though Mr. Greg has not observed it, between
hereditary wealth and that which, however great, and even, compared with the wages of subordinate
producers, excessive, is earned by industry. Wealth earned by industry is, for obvious reasons,
generally much more wisely and beneficially spent than hereditary wealth. The self-made millionaire
must at all events, have an active mind. The late Mr. Brassey was probably one man in a hundred
even among self-made millionaires; among hereditary millionaires he would have been one in
a thousand. Surely we always bestow especial praise on one who resists the evil influences
of hereditary wealth, and surely our praise is deserved.

The good which private wealth has done in the way of patronizing literature and art is, I am
convinced, greatly overrated. The beneficent patronage of Lorenzo di Medici is, like that of
Louis XIV., a chronological and moral fallacy. What Lorenzo did was, in effect, to make literature
and art servile and in some cases to taint them with the propensities of a magnificent debauchee.
It was not Lorenzo, nor any number of Lorenzos, that made Florence, with her intellect and
beauty, but the public spirit, the love of the community, the intensity of civic life, in which
the interest of Florentine history lies. The decree of the Commune for the building of the
Cathedral directs the architect to make a design "of such noble and extreme magnificence that
the industry and skill of men shall be able to invent nothing grander or more beautiful," since
it had been decided in Council that no plan should be accepted "unless the conception was such
as to render the work worthy of an ambition which had become very great, inasmuch as it resulted
from the continued desires of a great number of citizens united in one sole will."

I believe, too, that the munificence of a community is generally wiser and better directed
than that of private benefactors. Nothing can be more admirable than the munificence of rich
men in the United States. But the drawback in the way of personal fancies and crochets is so
great that I sometimes doubt whether future generations will have reason to thank the present,
especially as the reverence of the Americans for property is so intense that they would let
a dead founder breed any pestilence rather than touch the letter of his will.

Politically, no one can have lived in the New World without knowing that a society in which
wealth is distributed rests on an incomparably safer foundation than one in which it is concentrated
in the hands of a few. British plutocracy has its cannoneer; but if the cannoneer happens to
take fancies into his head the "whiff of grapeshot" goes the wrong way.

Socially, I do not know whether Mr. Greg has been led to consider the extent to which artificial
desires, expensive fashions, and conventional necessities created by wealth, interfere with
freedom of intercourse and general happiness. The Saturday Review says:

"All classes of Her Majesty's respectable subjects are always doing their best to keep up appearances,
and a very hard struggle many of us make of it. Thus a mansion in Belgrave Square ought to
mean a corpulent hall-porter, a couple of gigantic footmen, a butler and an under-butler at
the very least, if the owner professes to live op to his social dignities. If our house is
in Baker or Wimpole street, we must certainly have a manservant in sombre raiment to open our
door, with a hobbledehoy or a buttons to run his superior's messages. In the smart, although
somewhat dismal, small squares in South Kensington and the Western suburbs, the parlourmaid
must wear the freshest of ribbons and trimmest of bows, and be resplendent in starch and clean
coloured muslins. So it goes on, as we run down the gamut of the social scale; our ostentatious
expenditure must be in harmony throughout with the stuccoed facade behind which we live, or
the staff of domestics we parade. We are aware, of course, as our incomes for the most part
are limited, and as we are all of us upon our mettle in the battle of life that we must pinch
somewhere if appearances are to be kept up. We do what we can in secret towards balancing the
budget. We retrench on our charities, save on our coals, screw on our cabs, drink the sourest
of Bordeaux instead of more generous vintages, dispense with the cream which makes tea palatable,
and systematically sacrifice substantial comforts that we may swagger successfully in the face
of a critical and carping society. But with the most of us if our position is an anxious one;
it is of our own making and if we dared to be eccentrically rational it might be very tolerable."

Nor is this the worst. The worst is the exclusion from society of the people who do not choose
to torture and degrade themselves in order to keep up appearances and who are probably the
best people of all. The interference of wealth and its exigencies with social enjoyment is
I suspect a heavy set off against squirearchical patronage of intellect and art.

Those who believe that the distribution of wealth is more favourable to happiness and more
civilizing than its concentration will of course vote against laws which tend to artificial
concentration of wealth such as those of primogeniture and entail. This they may do without
advocating public plunder though it suits plutocratic writers to confound the two. For my own
part I do not feel bound to pay to British plutocracy a respect which British plutocracy does
not pay to humanity. Some of its organs are beginning to preach doctrines revolting to a Christian
and to any man who has not banished from his heart the love of his kind and we have seen it
when its class passions were excited show a temper as cruel as that of any Maratist or Petroleuse.
But so far from attacking the institution of property [Footnote: The Saturday Review some time
ago charged me with proposing to confiscate the increase in the value of land. I never said
anything of the kind nor anything I believe that could easily be mistaken for it.] I have as
great a respect for it as any millionaire can have and as sincerely accept and uphold it as
the condition of our civilization. There is nothing inconsistent with this in the belief that
among the better part of the race property is being gradually modified by duty or in the surmise
that before humanity reaches its distant goal property and duty will alike be merged in affection.

A TRUE CAPTAIN OF INDUSTRY.

The vast works of the railway and steamboat age called into existence, besides the race of
great engineers, a race of great organizers and directors of industry, who may be generally
termed Contractor. Among these no figure was more conspicuous than that of Mr. Brassey, a life
of whom has just been published by Messrs. Bell and Daldy. Its author is Mr. Helps, whose name
is a guarantee for the worthy execution of the work. And worthily executed it is, in spite
of a little Privy Council solemnity in the reflections, and a little "State Paper" in the style.
The materials were collected in an unusual way--by examining the persons who had acted under
Mr. Brassey, or knew him well, and taking down their evidence in shorthand. The examination
was conducted by Mr. Brassey, jun., who prudently declined to write the biography himself,
feeling that a son could not speak impartially of his father. The result is that we have materials
for a portrait, which not only is very interesting in itself but, by presenting the image of
beneficence in an employer, may help to mediate between capital and labour in a time of industrial
war.

Mr. Helps had been acquainted with Mr. Brassey, and had once received a visit from him on official
business of difficulty and importance. He expected, he says, to see a hard, stern, soldierly
sort of person, accustomed to sway armies of working-men in an imperious fashion. Instead of
this he saw an elderly gentleman of very dignified appearance and singularly graceful manners--"a
gentleman of the old school." "He stated his case, no, I express myself wrongly; he did not
state his case, he understated it; and there are few things more attractive in a man than that
he should be inclined to understate rather than overstate his own case." Mr. Brassey was also
very brief, and when he went away, Mr. Helps, knowing well the matter in respect to which his
visitor had a grievance, thought that, if it had been his own case, he should hardly have been
able to restrain himself so well, and speak with so little regard to self-interest, as Mr.
Brassey had done. Of all the persons whom Mr. Helps had known, he thought Mr. Brassey most
resembled that perfect gentleman and excellent public man, Lord Herbert of Lea.

Mr. Helps commences his work with a general portrait. According to this portrait, the most
striking feature in Mr. Brassey's character was trustfulness, which he carried to what might
appear an extreme. He chose his agents with care, but, having chosen them, placed implicit
confidence in them, trusting them for all details, and judging by results. He was very liberal
in the conduct of business. His temperament was singularly calm and equable, not to be discomposed
by success or failure, easily throwing off the burden of care, and, when all had been done
that could be done, awaiting the result with perfect equanimity. He was very delicate in blaming,
his censure being always of the gentlest kind, evidently reluctant, and on that account going
more to the heart. His generosity made him exceedingly popular with his subordinates and work-men,
who looked forward to his coming among them as a festive event; and, when any disaster occurred
in the works, the usual parts of employer and employed were reversed--the employer it was who
framed the excuses and comforted the employed. He was singularly courteous, and listened to
everybody with respect; so that it was a marked thing when he went so far as to say of a voluble
and empty chatterer, that "the peas were overgrowing the stick." His presence of mind was great;
he had in an eminent degree, as his biographer remarks, what Napoleon called "two o'clock in
the morning courage," being always ready, if called up in the middle of the night, to meet
any urgent peril; and his faculties were stimulated, not overcome, by danger. He had a perfect
hatred of contention, and would not only refuse to take any questionable advantage, but would
rather even submit to be taken advantage of--a generosity which turned to his account. In the
execution of any undertaking, his anxiety was that the work should be done quickly and done
well. Minor questions, unprovided for by specific contract, he left to be settled afterwards.
In his life he had only one regular law-suit. It was in Spain, about the Mataro line, and into
this he was drawn by his partner against his will. He declared that he would never have another,
"for in nineteen cases out of twenty you either gain nothing at all, or what you do gain does
not compensate you for the worry and anxiety the lawsuit occasions you." In case of disputes
between his agents and the engineers, he quietly settled the question by reference to the "gangers."

In order to find the key to Mr. Brassey's character, his biographer took care to ascertain
what was his "ruling passion." He had none of the ordinary ambitions for rank, title, or social
position. "His great ambition--his ruling passion--was to win a high reputation for skill,
integrity, and success in the difficult vocation of a contractor for public works; to give
large employment to his fellow-countrymen; by means of British labour and British skill to
knit together foreign countries; and to promote civilization, according to his view of it,
throughout the world." "Mr. Brassey," continues Mr. Helps, "was, in brief, a singularly trustful,
generous, large-hearted, dexterous, ruling kind of personage; blessed with a felicitous temperament
for bearing the responsibility of great affairs." In the military age he might have been a
great soldier, a Turenne or a Marlborough, if he could have broken through the aristocratic
barrier which confined high command to the privileged few; in the industrial age he found a
more beneficent road to distinction, and one not limited to the members of a caste.

Mr. Brassey's family is stated by his biographer to have come over with the Conqueror. If Mr.
Brassey attached any importance to his pedigree (of which there is no appearance) it is to
be hoped that he was able to make it out more clearly than most of those who claim descent
from companions of the Conqueror. Long after the Conquest--so long, indeed, as England and
Normandy remained united under one crown--there was a constant flow of Norman immigration into
England, and England swarms with people bearing Norman or French names, whose ancestors were
perfectly guiltless of the bloodshed of Hastings, and made their entrance into the country
as peaceful traders, and, perhaps, in even humbler capacities. What is certain is that the
great contractor sprang from a line of those small landed proprietors, once the pillars of
England's strength, virtue and freedom, who, in the old country have been "improved off the
face of the earth" by the great landowners, while they live again on the happier side of the
Atlantic. A sound morality, freedom from luxury, and a moderate degree of culture, are the
heritage of the scion of such a stock. Mr. Brassey was brought up at home till he was twelve
years old, when he was sent to school at Chester. At sixteen he was articled to a surveyor,
and as an initiation into great works, he helped, as a pupil, to make the surveys for the then
famous Holyhead road. His master, Mr. Lawton, saw his worth, and ultimately took him into partnership.
The firm set up at Birkenhead, then a very small place, but destined to a greatness which,
it seems, Mr. Lawton had the shrewdness to discern. At Birkenhead Mr. Brassey did well, of
course; and there, after a time, he was brought into contact with George Stephenson, and by
him at once appreciated and induced to engage in railways. The first contract which he obtained
was for the Pembridge Viaduct, between Stafford and Wolverhampton, and for this he was enabled
to tender by the liberality of his bankers, whose confidence, like that of all with whom he
came into contact, he had won. Railway-making was at that time a new business, and a contractor
was required to meet great demands upon his organizing power; the system of sub-contracts,
which so much facilitates the work, being then only in its infancy. From George Stephenson
Mr. Brassey passed to Mr. Locke, whose great coadjutor he speedily became. And now the question
arose whether he should venture to leave his moorings at Birkenhead and launch upon the wide
sea of railroad enterprise. His wife is said, by a happy inspiration, to have decided him in
favour of the more important and ambitious sphere. She did so at the sacrifice of her domestic
comfort; for in the prosecution of her husband's multifarious enterprises they changed their
residence eleven times in the next thirteen years, several times to places abroad; and little
during those years did his wife and family see of Mr. Brassey.

A high place in Mr. Brassey's calling had now been won, and it had been won not by going into
rings or making corners, but by treading steadily the steep path of honour. Mr. Locke was accused
of unduly favouring Mr. Brassey. Mr. Helps replies that the partiality of a man like Mr. Locke
must have been based on business grounds. It was found that when Mr. Brassey had undertaken
a contract, the engineer-in-chief had little to do in the way of supervision. Mr. Locke felt
assured that the bargain would be not only exactly but handsomely fulfilled, and that no excuse
would be pleaded for alteration or delay. After the fall of a great viaduct it was suggested
to Mr. Brassey that, by representing his case, he might obtain a reduction of his loss. "No,"
was his reply, "I have contracted to make and maintain the road, and nothing shall prevent
Thomas Brassey from being as good as his word."

As a contractor on a large scale, and especially as a contractor for foreign railroads, Mr.
Brassey was led rapidly to develop the system of sub-contracting. His mode of dealing with
his sub-contractors, however, was peculiar. They did not regularly contract with him, but he
appointed them their work, telling them what price he should give for it. They were ready to
take his word, knowing that they would not suffer by so doing. The sub-contractor who had made
a bad bargain, and found himself in a scrape, anxiously looked for the coming of Mr. Brassey.
"Mr. Brassey," says one of the witnesses examined for this biography, "came, saw how matters
stood, and invariably satisfied the man. If a cutting taken to be clay turned out after a very
short time to be rock, the sub- contractor would be getting disheartened, yet he still persevered,
looking to the time when Mr. Brassey should come. He came, walking along the line as usual
with a number of followers, and on coming to the cutting he looked round, counted the number
of waggons at the work, scanned the cutting, and took stock of the nature of the stuff. "This
is very hard," said he to the sub-contractor. "Yes, it is a pretty deal harder than I bargained
for." Mr. Brassey would linger behind, allowing the others to go on, and then commence the
following conversation: "What is your price for this cutting?" "So much a yard, Sir." "It is
very evident you are not getting it out for that price. Have you asked for any advance to be
made to you for this rock?" "Yes, sir, but I can make no sense of them." "If you say that your
price is so much, it is quite clear that you do not do it for that. I am glad that you have
persevered with it; but I shall not alter your price, it must remain as it is; but the rock
must be measured for you twice. Will that do for you?" "Yes, very well indeed, and I am very
much obliged to you, Sir." "Very well, go on; you have done very well in persevering, and I
shall look to you again." One of these tours of inspection would often cost Mr. Brassey a thousand
pounds."

Mr. Brassey, like all men who have done great things in the practical world, knew his way to
men's hearts. In his tours along the line he remembered even the navvies, and saluted them
by their names.

He understood the value of the co-operative principle as a guarantee for hearty work. His agents
were made partakers in his success, and he favoured the butty-gang system--that of letting
work to a gang of a dozen men, who divide the pay, allowing something extra to the head of
the gang.

Throughout his life it was a prime object with him to collect around him a good staff of well-tried
and capable men. He chose well, and adhered to his choice. If a man failed in one line, he
did not cast him off, but tried him in another. It was well known in the labour market that
be would never give a man up if he could help it. He did not even give men up when they had
gone to law with him. In the appendix is a letter written by him to provide employment for
a person who "had by some means got into a suit or reference against him," but whom he described
as "knowing his work well." In hard times he still kept his staff together by subdividing the
employment.

Those social philosophers who delight in imagining that there is no engineering skill, or skill
of any kind, in England, have to account for the fact that a large proportion of the foreign
railways are of British construction. The lines built by Mr. Brassey form an imposing figure
not only on the map of England, but on those of Europe, North and South America, and Australia.
The Paris and Rouen Railway was the first of the series. In passing to the foreign scene of
action new difficulties had to be encountered, including that of carrying over, managing and
housing large bodies of British navvies; and Mr. Brassey's administrative powers were further
tried and more conspicuously developed. The railway army, under its commander-in-chief, was
now fully organized. "If," says Mr. Helps, "we look at the several persons and classes engaged,
they may be enumerated thus:--There were the engineers of the company or of the government
who were promoters of the line. There were the principal contractors, whose work had to satisfy
these engineers; and there were the agents of the contractors to whom were apportioned the
several lengths of the line. These agents had the duties, in some respects, of a commissary-general
in an army; and for the work to go on well, it was necessary that they should be men of much
intelligence and force of character. Then there were the various artizans, such as bricklayers
and masons, whose work, of course, was principally that of constructing the culverts, bridges,
stations, tunnels and viaducts, to which points of the work the attention of the agents had
to be carefully directed. Again, there were the sub-contractors, whose duties I have enumerated,
and under them were the gangers, the corporals, as it were, in this great army, being the persons
who had the control of small bodies of workmen, say twenty or more. Then came the great body
of navvies, the privates of the army, upon whose endurance and valour so much depended."

There is a striking passage in one of the Erckmann-Chatrian novels, depicting the French army
going into action, with its vast bodies of troops of all arms moving over the whole field,
marshalled by perfect discipline and wielded by the single will of Napoleon. The army of industry
when in action also presented a striking appearance in its way. I think, says one of Mr. Brassey's
time keepers with professional enthusiasm, as fine a spectacle as any man could witness who
is accustomed to look at work is to see a cutting in full operation with about twenty waggons
being filled, every man at his post, and every man with his shirt open working in the heat
of the day, the ganger walking about and everything going like clockwork. Such an exhibition
of physical power attracted many French gentlemen who came on to the cuttings at Paris and
Rouen and looking at the English workmen with astonishment said Mon Dieu, les Anglais comme
ils travaillent! Another thing that called forth remark was the complete silence that prevailed
amongst the men. It was a fine sight to see the Englishmen that were there with their muscular
arms and hands hairy and brown.

The army was composed of elements as motley as ever met under any commander. On the Paris and
Rouen Railway eleven languages were spoken-- English, Erse, Gaelic, Welsh, French, German,
Belgian (Flemish), Dutch, Piedmontese, Spanish, and Polish. A common lingo naturally sprang
up like the Pigeon English of China. But in the end it seems many of the navvies learnt to
speak French pretty well. We are told that at first the mode in which the English instructed
the French was of a very original character. They pointed to the earth to be moved or the waggon
to be filled said the word d--n emphatically, stamped their feet and somehow or other their
instructions thus conveyed were generally comprehended by the foreigners. It is added however
that this form of instruction was only applicable in very simple cases.

The English navvy was found to be the first workman in the world. Some navvies utterly distanced
in working power the labourers of all other countries. The French at first earned only two
francs a day to the Englishman's four and a half, but with better living, more instruction,
and improved tools (for the French tools were very poor at first) the Frenchmen came to earn
four francs. In the severe and dangerous work of mining, however the Englishman maintained
his superiority in nerve and steadiness. The Piedmontese were very good hands especially for
cutting rock and at the same time well conducted, sober and saving. The Neapolitans would not
take any heavy work, but they seem to have been temperate and thrifty. The men from Lucca ranked
midway between the Piedmontese and the Neapolitans. The Germans proved less enduring than the
French; those employed, however, were mostly Bavarians. The Belgians were good labourers. In
the mode of working, the foreign labourers had of course much to learn from the English, whose
experience in railway- making had taught them the most compendious processes for moving earth.

Mr. Hawkshaw, the engineer, however says, as to the relative cost of unskilled labour in different
countries: "I have come to the conclusion that its cost is much the same in all. I have had
personal experience in South America, in Russia, and in Holland, as well as in my own country,
and, as consulting engineer to some of the Indian and other foreign railways. I am pretty well
acquainted with the value of Hindoo and other labour; and though an English labourer will do
a larger amount of work than a Creole or a Hindoo, yet you have to pay them proportionately
higher wages. Dutch labourers are, I think, as good as English, or nearly so; and Russian workmen
are docile and easily taught, and readily adopt every method shown to them to be better than
their own."

The "navvies," though rough, seem not to have been unmanageable. There are no trades' unions
among them, and they seldom strike. Brandy being cheap in France, they were given to drink,
which was not the French habit: but their good nature, and the freedom with which they spent
their money, made them popular, and even the gendarmes soon found out the best way of managing
them. They sometimes, but not generally, got unruly on pay day. They came to their foreign
work without wife or family. The unmarried often took foreign wives. It is pleasant to hear
that those who had wives and families in England sent home money periodically to them; and
that they all sent money often to their parents. They sturdily kept their English habits and
their English dress, with the high-low boots laced up, if they could possibly get them made.

The multiplicity of schemes now submitted to Mr. Brassey brought out his powers of calculation
and mental arithmetic, which appear to have been very great. After listening to a multitude
of complicated details, he would arrive mentally in a few seconds at the approximate cost of
a line. He made little use of notes, trusting to his memory, which, naturally strong, was strengthened
by habit. Dealing with hundreds of people, he kept their affairs in his head and at every halt
in his journeys even for a quarter of an hour at a railway station he would sit down and write
letters of the clearest kind. His biographer says that he was one of the greatest letter writers
ever known.

If he ever got into serious difficulties it was not from miscalculation but from financial
embarrassment which in 1866 pressed upon him in such a manner and with such severity that his
property of all kinds was largely committed and he weathered the storm only by the aid of the
staunch friends whom his high qualities and honourable conduct had wedded to his person and
his fortunes. In the midst of his difficulties he pushed on his works to their conclusion with
his characteristic rapidity. His perseverance supported his reputation and turned the wavering
balance in his favour. The daring and vigorous completion of the Lemberg and Czarnovitz works
especially had this good effect and an incident in connection with them showed the zeal and
devotion which Mr. Brassey's character inspired. The works were chiefly going on at Lemberg
five hundred miles from Vienna and the difficulty was, how to get the money to pay the men
from Vienna to Lemberg, the intervening country being occupied by the Austrian and Prussian
armies. Mr. Brassey's coadjutor and devoted friend Mr. Ofenheim, Director General of the Company,
undertook to do it. He was told there was no engine but he found an old engine in a shed. Next
he wanted an engine driver and he found one but the man said that he had a wife and children
and that he would not go. His reluctance was overcome by the promise of a high reward for himself
and a provision in case of death for his wife and family. The two jumped on the old engine
and got up steam. They then started and ran at the rate of forty or fifty miles an hour between
the sentinels of the opposing armies who were so surprised, Mr. Ofenheim says, that they had
not time to shoot him. His only fear was that there might be a rail up somewhere. But he got
to Lemberg and paid the men who would otherwise have gone home, leaving the line unfinished
for the winter. The Emperor of Austria might well ask, Who is this Mr. Brassey, the English
contractor for whom men are to be found who work with such zeal and risk their lives? In recognition
of a power which the Emperor had reason to envy he sent Mr. Brassey the Cross of the Iron Crown.

It was only in Spain, the land where two and two make five, that Mr. Brassey's powers of calculation
failed him. He and his partners lost largely upon the Bilbao railway. It seems that there was
a mistake as to the nature of the soil, and that the climate proved wetter than was expected.
But the firm also forgot to allow for the ecclesiastical calendar, and the stoppage of work
on the numberless fete days. There were, however, other difficulties peculiarly Spanish,--antediluvian
finance, antediluvian currency, the necessity of sending pay under a guard of clerks armed
with revolvers, and the strange nature of the people whom it was requisite to employ--one of
them, a Carlist chief, living in defiance of the Government with a tail of ruffians like himself,
who, when you would not transact business as he wished, "bivouacked" with his tail round your
office and threatened to "kill you as he would a fly." Mr. Brassey managed notwithstanding
to illustrate the civilizing power of railways by teaching the Basques the use of paper money.

Minor misfortunes of course occurred, such as the fall of the Barentin Viaduct on the Rouen
and Havre railway, a brick structure one hundred feet high and a third of a mile in length,
which had just elicited the praise of the Minister of Public Works. Rapid execution in bad
weather, and inferior mortar, were the principal causes of this accident. By extraordinary
effort the viaduct was built in less than six months, a display of energy and resource which
the company acknowledged by an allowance of L1,000. On the Bilbao railway some of the works
were destroyed by very heavy rains. The agent telegraphed to Mr. Brassey to come at once, as
a bridge had been washed down. There hours afterwards came a telegraph announcing that a large
bank was carried away, and next morning another saying that the rain continued and more damage
had been done. Mr. Brassey, turning to a friend, said, laughing: "I think I had better wait
till I hear that the wind has ceased, so that when I do go I may see what is left of the works,
and estimate all the disasters at once, and so save a second journey."

Mr. Brassey's business rapidly developed to an immense extent, and, instead of being contractor
for one or two lines, he became a sort of contractor-in-chief, and a man to be consulted by
all railway proprietors. In thirty-six years be executed no less than one hundred and seventy
railway and other contracts. In his residence, as in his enterprises, he now became cosmopolitan,
and lived a good deal on the rail. He had the physical power to bear this life. His brother-in-law
says, "I have known him come direct from France to Rugby having left Havre the night before--he
would have been engaged in the office the whole day." He would then come down to Rugby by the
mail train at twelve o'clock, and it was his common practice to be on the works by six o'clock
the next morning. He would frequently walk from Rugby to Nuneaton, a distance of sixteen miles.
Having arrived at Nuneaton in the afternoon he would proceed the same night by road to Tamworth,
and the next morning he would be out on the road so soon that he had the reputation among his
staff of being the first man on the works. He used to proceed over the works from Tamworth
to Stafford, walking the greater part of the distance, and would frequently proceed that same
evening to Lancaster in order to inspect the works there in progress, under the contract which
he had for the execution of the railway from Lancaster to Carlisle.

In constructing the Great Northern Railway the difficulties of the Fen Country were met and
surmounted. Mr. Brassey's chief agent in this was Mr. Ballard, a man self raised from the ranks
of labour but indebted for the eminence which he ultimately attained to Mr. Brassey's discrimination
in selecting him for the arduous undertaking. He has borne interesting testimony to his superior's
comprehensiveness and rapidity of view, the directness with which he went to the important
point, disregarding secondary matters and economizing his time and thought.

The Italian Railway enterprises of Mr. Brassey owed their origin to the economical genius of
Count Cavour and their execution drew from the Count the declaration that Mr. Brassey was one
of the most remarkable men he knew; clear-headed, cautious, yet very enterprising and fulfilling
his engagements faithfully. "We never," said the Count, "had a difficulty with him." And he
added that Mr. Brassey would make a splendid minister of public works. Mr. Brassey took shares
gallantly, and, when their value had risen most generously resigned them with a view to enabling
the government to interest Piedmontese investors in the undertaking. So far was he from being
a maker of corners. It is justly remarked that these Piedmontese railroads constructed by English
enterprise were a most important link in the chain of events which brought about the emancipation
and unification of Italy.

Mr. Brassey has left on record the notable remark that the railway from Turin to Novara was
completed for about the same money as was spent in obtaining the Bill for the railway from
London to York. If the history of railway bills in the British Parliament, of which this statement
gives us an inkling, could be disclosed, it would probably be one of the most scandalous revelations
in commercial history. The contests which led to such ruinous expense and to so much demoralization,
both of Parliament and of the commercial world, were a consequence of adopting the system of
uncontrolled competition in place of that of government control. Mr. Brassey was in favour
of the system of government control. "He was of opinion that the French policy, which did not
admit the principle of free competition, was not only more calculated to serve the interests
of the shareholders, but more favourable to the public. He moreover considered that a multiplicity
of parallel lines of communication between the same termini, and the uncontrolled competition
in regard to the service of trains, such as exists in England, did not secure so efficient
a service for the public as the system adopted in France." Mr. Thomas Brassey says that he
remembers that his father, when travelling in France, would constantly point out the superiority
of the arrangements, and express his regret that the French policy had not been adopted in
England. "He thought that all the advantage of cheap service and of sufficiently frequent communication,
which were intended to be secured for the British public under a system of free competition,
would have been equally well secured by adopting the foreign system, and giving a monopoly
to the interest of railway communication in a given district to one company; and then limiting
the exercise of that monopoly by watchful supervision on the part of the State in the interests
of the public." With regard to extensions, he thought that the government might have secured
sufficient compulsory powers. There can be no sort of doubt that this sort of policy would
have saved England an enormous amount of pecuniary loss, personal distress and public demoralization.
It is a policy, it will be observed, of government regulation, not of government subsidies
or construction by government. It of course implies the existence of an administration capable
of regulating a railway system, and placed above the influence of jobbery and corruption.

For the adoption of the policy of free competition Sir Robert Peel was especially responsible.
He said, in his own defence, that he had not at his command power to control those undertakings.
Mr. Helps assumes rather characteristically that he meant official power, and draws a moral
in favour of the extension of the civil service. But there is no doubt that Peel really meant
Parliamentary power. The railway men in the Parliament were too strong for him and compelled
him to throw overboard the scheme of government control framed by his own committee under the
presidency of Lord Dalhousie. The moral to be drawn therefore is not that of civil service
extension, but that of the necessity of guarding against Parliamentary rings in legislation
concerning public works.

Of all Mr. Brassey's undertakings not one was superior in importance to that with which Canadians
are best acquainted--the Grand Trunk Railway, with the Victoria Bridge. It is needless here
to describe this enterprise, or to recount the tragic annals of the loss brought on thousands
of shareholders, which financially speaking was its calamitous sequel. The severest part of
the undertaking was the Victoria Bridge. "The first working season there," says one of the
chief agents, "was a period of difficulty, trouble and disaster." The agents of the contractors
had no experience of the climate. There were numerous strikes among the workmen. The cholera
committed dreadful ravages in the neighbourhood. In one case, out of a gang of two hundred
men, sixty were sick at one time, many of whom ultimately died. The shortness of the working
season in this country involved much loss of time. It was seldom that the setting of the masonry
was fairly commenced before the middle of August, and it was certain that all work must cease
at the end of November. Then there were the shoving of the ice at the beginning and breaking
up of the frosts, and the collisions between floating rafts 250 feet long and the staging erected
for putting together the tubes. Great financial difficulties were experienced in consequence
of the Crimean war. The mechanical difficulties were also immense, and called for extraordinary
efforts both of energy and invention. The bridge, however, was completed, as had been intended,
in December, 1859 and formally opened by the Prince of Wales in the following year. "The devotion
and energy of the large number of workmen employed," says Mr. Hodges, "can hardly be praised
too highly. Once brought into proper discipline, they worked as we alone can work against difficulties.
They have left behind them in Canada an imperishable monument of British skill, pluck, science
and perseverance in this bridge, which they not only designed, but constructed."

The whole of the iron for the tubes was prepared at Birkenhead, but so well prepared that,
in the centre tube, consisting of no less than 10,309 pieces, in which nearly half a million
of holes were punched, not one plate required alteration, neither was there a plate punched
wrong. The faculty of invention, however, was developed in the British engineers and workmen
by the air of the New World. A steam-traveller was made and sent out by one of the most eminent
firms in England, after two years of experiments and an outlay of some thousands of pounds,
which would never do much more than move itself about, and at last had to be laid aside as
useless. But the same descriptions and drawings having been shown to Mr. Chaffey, one of the
sub-contractors, who "had been in Canada a sufficient length of time to free his genius from
the cramped ideas of early life," a rough and ugly machine was constructed, which was soon
working well. The same increase of inventiveness, according to Mr. Hodges, was visible in the
ordinary workman, when transferred from the perfect but mechanical and cramping routine of
British industry, to a country where he has to mix trades and turn his hands to all kinds of
work. "In England he is a machine, but as soon as he gets out to the United States he becomes
an intellectual being." Comparing the German with the British mechanic, Mr. Hodges says, "I
do not think that a German is a better man than an Englishman; but I draw this distinction
between them, that when a German leaves school he begins to educate himself, but the Englishman
does not, for, as soon as he casts off the thraldom of school, he learns nothing more unless
he is forced to do it, and if he is forced to do it, he will then beat the German. An Englishman
acts well when he is put under compulsion by circumstances."

Labour being scarce, a number of French-Canadians were, at Mr. Brassey's suggestion, brought
up in organized gangs, each having an Englishman or an American as their leader. We are told,
however, that they proved useless except for very light work. "They could ballast, but they
could not excavate. They could not even ballast as the English navvy does, continuously working
at filling for the whole day. The only way in which they could be useful was by allowing them
to fill the waggons, and then ride out with the ballast train to the place where the ballast
was tipped, giving them an opportunity of resting. Then the empty waggon went back again to
be filled and so alternately resting during the work; in that way, they did very much more.
They would work fast for ten minutes and then they were 'done.' This was not through idleness
but physical weakness. They are small men, and they are a class who are not well fed. They
live entirely on vegetable food, and they scarcely ever taste meat." It is natural to suppose
that the want of meat is the cause of their inefficiency. Yet the common farm labourer in England,
who does a very hard and long day's work, hardly tastes meat, in many counties, the year round.

In the case of the Crimean railway, private enterprise came, in a memorable manner, to the
assistance of a government overwhelmed by administrative difficulties. A forty years peace
had rusted the machinery of the war department, while the machinery of railway construction
was in the highest working order. Sir John Burgoyne, the chief of the engineering staff, testified
that it was impossible to overrate the services rendered by the railway, or its effects in
shortening the time of the siege, and alleviating the fatigues and sufferings of the troops.
The disorganization of the government department was accidental and temporary, as was subsequently
proved by the success of the Abyssinian expedition, and, indeed, by the closing period of the
Crimean war itself, when the British army was well supplied, while the French administration
broke down. On the other hand the resources of private industry, on which the embarrassed government
drew, are always there; and their immense auxiliary power would be at once manifested if England
should become involved in a dangerous war. It should be remembered, too, that the crushing
war expenditure in time of peace, which alarmists always advocate, would prevent the growth
of those resources, and deprive England of the "sinews of war."

The Danish railways brought the British navvy again into comparison with his foreign rivals.
Mr. Rowan, the agent of Messrs. Peto and Brassey, was greatly pleased with his Danish labourers,
but, on being pressed, said, "No man is equal to the British navvy; but the Dane, from his
steady, constant labour, is a good workman, and a first-class one will do nearly as much work
in a day as an Englishman." The Dane takes time: his habit is in summer to begin work at four
in the morning, and continue till eight in the evening, taking five intervals of rest.

The Danish engineers, in Mr. Rowan's judgment, are over-educated, and, as a consequence, wanting
in decisiveness. "They have been in the habit of applying to their masters for everything,
finding out nothing for themselves; the consequence is that they are children, and cannot form
a judgment. It is the same in the North of Germany; the great difficulty is that you cannot
get them to come to a decision. They want always to inquire and to investigate, and they never
come to a result." This evidence must have been given some years ago, for of late it has been
made pretty apparent that the investigations and inquiries of the North Germans do not prevent
their coming to a decision, or that decision from leading to a result. Mr. Helps seizes the
opportunity for a thrust at the system of competitive examination, which has taken from the
heads of departments the power of "personal selection." The answer to him is Sedan. A bullet
through your heart is the strongest proof which logic can afford that the German, from whose
rifle it comes, was not prevented by his knowledge of the theory of projectiles from marking
his man with promptness and taking a steady aim. That over-exertion of the intellect in youth
does a man harm, is a true though not a very fruitful proposition; but knowledge does not destroy
decisiveness: it only turns it from the decisiveness of a bull into the decisiveness of a man.
Which nations do the great works? The educated nations, or Mexico and Spain?

The Australian railways brought out two facts, one gratifying, the other the reverse. The gratifying
fact was that the unlimited confidence which Mr. Brassey reposed in his agents was repaid by
their zeal and fidelity in his service. The fact which was the reverse of gratifying was, that
the great advantage which the English Labourer gains in Australia, from the higher wages and
comparative cheapness of living, is counteracted by his love of drink.

The Argentine Railway had special importance and interest, in opening up a vast and most fruitful
and salubrious region to European emigration. Those territories offer room and food for myriads.
"The population of Russia, that hard-featured country, is about 75,000,000, the population
of the Argentine Republic, to which nature has been so bountiful, and in which she is so beautiful,
is about 1,000,000." If ever government in the South American States becomes more settled,
we shall find them formidable rivals.

The Indian Railways are also likely to be a landmark in the history of civilization. They unite
that vast country and its people, both materially and morally, break down caste, bring the
natives from all parts to the centres of instruction, and distribute the produce of the soil
evenly and rapidly, so as to mitigate famines. The Orissa famine would never have occurred,
had Mr. Brassey's works been there. What effect the railways will ultimately have on British
rule is another question. They multiply the army by increasing the rapidity of transport, but,
on the other hand, they are likely to diminish that division among the native powers on which
the Empire is partly based. Rebellion may run along the railway line as well as command.

There were periods in Mr. Brassey's career during which he and his partners were giving employment
to 80,000 persons, upon works requiring seventeen millions of capital for their completion.
It is also satisfactory to know, that in the foreign countries and colonies over which his
operations extended, he was instrumental in raising the wages and condition of the working
class, as well as in affording to the elite of that class opportunities for rising to higher
positions.

His remuneration for all this, though in the aggregate very large, was by no means excessive.
Upon seventy-eight millions of money laid out in the enterprises which he conducted, he retained
two millions and a half, that is as nearly as possible three per cent. The rest of his fortune
consisted of accumulations. Three per cent. was not more than a fair payment for the brain-work,
the anxiety and the risk. The risk, it must be recollected, was constant, and there were moments
at which, if Mr. Brassey had died, he would have been found comparatively poor. His fortune
was made, not by immoderate gains upon any one transaction, but by reasonable profits in a
business which was of vast extent, and owed its vast extent to a reputation, fairly earned
by probity, energy and skill. We do not learn that he figured in any lobby, or formed a member
of any ring. Whether he was a Norman or not, he was too much a gentleman, in the best sense
of the term, to crawl to opulence by low and petty ways. He left no stain on the escutcheon
of a captain of industry.

Nor when riches increased did he set his heart upon them. His heart was set on the work rather
than on the pay. The monuments and enterprise of his skill were more to him than the millions.
He seems even to have been rather careless in keeping his accounts. He gave away freely--as
much as L200,000, it is believed--in the course of his life. His accumulations arose not from
parsimony but from the smallness of his personal expenses. He hated show and luxury, and kept
a moderate establishment, which the increase of his wealth never induced him to extend. He
seems to have felt a singular diffidence as to his capacity for aristocratic expenditure. The
conversation turning one day on the immense fortunes of certain noblemen, he said, "I understand
it is easy and natural enough for those who are born and brought up to it, to spend L50,000
or even L150,000 a year; but I should be very sorry to have to undergo the fatigue of even
spending L30,000 a year. I believe such a job as that would drive me mad." He felt an equally
strange misgiving as to his capacity for aristocratic idleness. "It requires a special education,"
he said, "to be idle, or to employ the twenty-four hours, in a rational way, without any calling
or occupation. To live the life of a gentleman, one must have been brought up to it. It is
impossible for a man who has been engaged in business pursuits the greater part of his life
to retire; if he does so, he soon discovers that he has made a great mistake. I shall not retire,
but if for some good reason, I should be obliged to do so, it would be to a farm. There I would
bring up stock which I would cause to be weighed every day, ascertaining at the same time their
daily cost, as against the increasing weight. I should then know when to sell and start again
with another lot."

Of tinsel, which sometimes is as corrupting to vulgar souls as money, this man seems to have
been as regardless as he was of pelf. He received the Cross of the Iron Crown from the Emperor
of Austria. He accepted what was graciously offered, but he said that, as an Englishman, he
did not know what good Crosses were to him. The circumstance reminded him that he had received
other Crosses, but he had to ask his agent what they were, and where they were. He was told
that they were the Legion of Honour of France, and the Chevaliership of Italy; but the Crosses
could not be found. Duplicates were procured to be taken to Mrs. Brassey, who, her husband
remarked, would be glad to possess them all.

Such millionaires would do unmixed good in the world; but unfortunately they are apt to die
and leave their millions, and the social influence which the millions confer, to "that unfeathered
two-legged thing, a son." This is by no means said with a personal reference. On the contrary,
it is evident that Mr. Brassey was especially fortunate in his heir. We find some indication
of this in a chapter towards the close of Mr. Helps' volume, in which are thrown together the
son's miscellaneous recollections of the father. The chapter affords further proof that the
great contractor was not made of the same clay as the Fisks and Vanderbilts--that he was not
a mere market-rigger and money-grubber--but a really great man, devoted to a special calling.
He is represented by his son as having taken a lively interest in a wide and varied range of
subjects--engineering subjects especially as a matter of course, but not engineering subjects
alone. He studied countries and their people, evincing the utmost interest in Chicago, speculating
on the future industrial prosperity of Canada, and imparting the results of his observations
admirably when he got home. Like all great men, he had a poetic element in his character. He
loved the beauties of nature, and delighted in mountain scenery. He was a great sight-seer,
and when he visited a city on business, went through its churches, public buildings, and picture-galleries,
as assiduously as a tourist. For half an hour he stood gazing with delight on the Maison Carree,
at Nismes. For sculpture and painting he had a strong taste, and the Venus of Milo "was a joy
to him." He had a keen eye for beauty, shapeliness and comeliness everywhere, in porcelain,
in furniture, in dress, in a well built yacht, in a well appointed regiment of horse. Society,
too, he liked, in spite of his simplicity of habits; loved to gather his friends around his
board, and was always a genial host. For literature he had no time, but he enjoyed oratory,
and liked to hear good reading. He used to test his son's progress in reading, at the close
of each half year, by making him read aloud a chapter of the Bible. His good sense confined
his ambition to his proper sphere, and prevented him from giving ear to any solicitations to
go into politics, which he had not leisure to study, and which he knew ought not to be handled
by ignorance. His own leanings were Conservative; but his son, who is a Liberal, testifies
that his father never offered him advice on political matters, or remonstrated with him on
a single vote which he gave in the House of Commons. It is little to the discredit of a man
so immersed in business that he should have been fascinated, as he was, by the outward appearance
of perfect order presented by the French Empire and by the brilliancy of its visible edifice,
not discerning the explosive forces which its policy was all the time accumulating in the dark
social realms below; though the fact that he, with all his natural sagacity, did fall into
this tremendous error, is a warning to railway and steamboat politicians.

Mr. Brassey's advice was often sought by parents who had sons to start in the world. "As usual,
a disposition was shewn to prefer a career which did not involve the apparent degradation of
learning a trade practically, side by side with operatives in a workshop. But my father, who
had known, by his wide experience, the immense value of a technical knowledge of a trade or
business as compared with general educational advantages of the second order, and who knew
how much more easy it is to earn a living as a skilful artisan than as a clerk, possessing
a mere general education, always urged those who sought his advice to begin by giving to their
sons a practical knowledge of a trade."

"My father," says Mr. Brassey, junior, "ever mindful of his own struggles and efforts in early
life, evinced at all times the most anxious disposition to assist young men to enter upon a
career. The small loans which he advanced for this purpose, and the innumerable letters which
he wrote in the hope of obtaining for his young clients help or employment in other quarters,
constitute a bright and most honourable feature in his life." His powers of letter-writing
were enormous, and, it seems to us, were exercised even to excess. So much writing would, at
least, in the case of any ordinary man, have consumed too much of the energy which should be
devoted to thought. His correspondence was brought with his luncheon basket when he was shooting
on the moors. After a long day's journey he sat down in the coffee room of the hotel, and wrote
thirty-two letters before he went to bed. He never allowed a letter, even a begging letter,
to remain unanswered; and, says his son, "the same benignity and courtesy which marked his
conduct in every relation of life, pervaded his whole correspondence." "In the many volumes
of his letters which are preserved, I venture to affirm that there is not the faintest indication
of an ungenerous or unkindly sentiment--not a sentence which is not inspired by the spirit
of equity and justice, and by universal charity to mankind."

By the same authority we are assured that "Mr. Brassey was of a singularly patient disposition
in dealing with all ordinary affairs of life. We know how, whenever a hitch occurs in a railway
journey, a great number of passengers become irritated, almost to a kind of foolish frenzy.
He always took these matters most patiently. He well knew that no persons are so anxious to
avoid such detentions as the officials themselves, and never allowed himself to altercate with
a helpless guard or distracted station-master."

The only blemish which the son can recollect in the father's character, is a want of firmness
in blaming when blame was due, and an incapacity of refusing a request or rejecting a proposal
strongly urged by others. The latter defect was, in his son's judgment, the cause of the greatest
disasters which he experienced as a man of business. Both defects were closely allied to virtues--extreme
tenderness of heart and consideration for the feelings of others.

"He was graceful," says Mr. Brassey, junior, in conclusion, "in every movement, always intelligent
in observation, with an excellent command of language, and only here and there betrayed, by
some slight provincialisms, in how small a degree he had in early life enjoyed the educational
advantages of those with whom his high commercial position in later years placed him in constant
communication. But these things are small in comparison to the greater points of character
by which he seemed to me to be distinguished. In all he said or did, he showed himself to be
inspired by that chivalry of heart and mind which must truly ennoble him who possesses it,
and without which one cannot be a perfect gentleman."

Mention has been made of his great generosity. One of his old agents having lost all his earnings,
Mr. Brassey gave him several new missions, that be might have a chance of recovering himself.
But the agent died suddenly, and his wife nearly at the same time, leaving six orphan children
without provision. Mr. Brassey gave up, in their favour, a policy of insurance which he held
as security for several thousands, and, in addition, headed a subscription list for them with
a large sum. It seems that his delicacy in giving was equal to his generosity; that of his
numberless benefactions, very few were published in subscription lists, and that his right
hand seldom knew what his left hand did.

His refinement was of the truly moral kind, and of the kind that tells on others. Not only
was coarse and indecent language checked in his presence, but the pain he evinced at all outbreaks
of unkind feeling, and at manifestation of petty jealousies, operated strongly in preventing
any such displays from taking place before him. As one who was the most intimate with him observed,
"his people seemed to enter into a higher atmosphere when they were in his presence, conscious,
no doubt, of the intense dislike which he had of everything that was mean, petty, or contentious."

Mr. Helps tells us that the tender-heartedness which pervaded Mr. Brassey's character was never
more manifested than on the occasion of any illness of his friends. At the busiest period of
his life he would travel hundreds of miles to be at the bedside of a sick or dying friend.
In his turn he experienced, in his own last illness, similar manifestations of affectionate
solicitude. Many of the persons, we are told, who had served him in foreign countries and at
home, came from great distances solely for the chance of seeing once more their old master
whom they loved so much. They were men of all classes, humble navvies as well as trusted agents.
They would not intrude upon his illness, but would wait for hours in the hall, in the hope
of seeing him borne to his carriage, and getting a shake of the hand or a sign of friendly
recognition. "The world," remarks Mr. Helps, "is after all not so ungrateful as it is sometimes
supposed to be; those who deserve to be loved generally are loved, having elicited the faculty
of loving which exists to a great extent in all of us."

"Mr. Brassey," we are told, "had ever been a very religious man. His religion was of that kind
which most of us would desire for ourselves-- utterly undisturbed by doubts of any sort, entirely
tolerant, not built upon small or even upon great differences of belief. He clung resolutely
and with entire hopefulness to that creed, and abode by that form of worship, in which he had
been brought up as a child." The religious element in his character was no doubt strong, and
lay at the root of his tender-heartedness and his charity as well as of the calm resignation
with which he met disaster, and his indifference to gain. At the time of a great panic, when
things were at the worst, he only said: "Never mind, we must be content with a little less,
that is all." This was when he supposed himself to have lost a million. The duty of religious
inquiry, which he could not perform himself, he would no doubt have recognised in those to
whose lot it falls to give their fellow-men assurance of religious truth.

Mr. Brassey's wife said of him that "he was a most unworldly man." This may seem a strange
thing to say of a great contractor and a millionaire. Yet, in the highest sense, it was true.
Mr. Brassey was not a monk; his life was passed in the world, and in the world's most engrossing,
and, as it proves in too many cases, most contaminating business. Yet, if the picture of him
presented to us be true, he kept himself "unspotted from the world."

His character is reflected in the portrait which forms the frontispiece to the biography, and
on which those who pursue his calling will do well sometimes to look.

A WIREPULLER OF KINGS.

[Footnote: Memoirs of Baron Stockmar. By his son, Baron E. Von Stockmar. Translated from the
German by G. A. M. Edited by F. Max Muller. In two volumes. London: Longman's, Green and Co.]

Some of our readers will remember that there was at one time a great panic in England about
the unconstitutional influence of Prince Albert, and that, connected with Prince Albert's name
in the invectives of a part of the press, was that of the intimate friend, constant guest,
and trusted adviser of the Royal Family, Baron Stockmar. The suspicion was justified by the
fact in both cases; but in the case of Baron Stockmar, as well as in that of Prince Albert,
the influence appears to have been exercised on the whole for good. Lord Aberdeen, who spoke
his mind with the sincerity and simplicity of a perfectly honest man, said of Stockmar; "I
have known men as clever, as discreet, as good, and with as good judgment; but I never knew
any one who united all these qualities as he did." Melbourne was jealous of his reputed influence,
but testified to his sense and worth. Palmerston disliked, we may say hated, him; but he declared
him the only disinterested man of the kind he had ever known.

Stockmar was a man of good family, who originally pursued the profession of medicine, and having
attracted the notice of Prince Leopold of Saxe Coburg, the husband of Princess Charlotte, and
afterwards king of the Belgians, was appointed physician in ordinary to that Prince upon his
marriage. When, in course of time, he exchanged the functions of physician in ordinary for
those of wirepuller in ordinary, he found that the time passed in medical study had not been
thrown away. He said himself, "It was a clever stroke to have originally studied medicine;
without the knowledge thus acquired, without the psychological and physiological experiences
thus obtained, my savoir faire would often have gone a-begging." It seems also that he practised
politics on medical principles, penetrating a political situation, or detecting a political
disease, by the help of single expressions or acts, after the manner of medical diagnosis,
and in his curative treatment endeavouring to remove as far as possible every pathological
impediment, so that the healing moral nature might be set free, and social and human laws resume
their restorative power. He might have graduated as a politician in a worse school.

He was not able to cure himself of dyspepsia and affections of the eye, which clung to him
through life, the dyspepsia producing fluctuation of spirits, and occasional hypochondria,
which, it might have been thought, would seriously interfere with his success as a court favourite.
"At one time he astonished the observer by his sanguine, bubbling, provoking, unreserved, quick,
fiery or humorous, cheerful, even unrestrainedly gay manner, winning him by his hearty open
advances where he felt himself attracted and encouraged to confidence; at other times he was
all seriousness, placidity, self-possession, cool circumspection, methodical consideration,
prudence, criticism, even irony and scepticism." Such is not the portrait which imagination
paints of the demeanour of a court favourite. But Stockmar had one invaluable qualification
for the part-- he had conscientiously made up his mind that it is a man's duty in life to endure
being bored.

The favour of a Prince of Saxe Coburg would not in itself have been fortune. A certain Royal
Duke was, as everybody who ever had the honour of being within earshot of him knew, in the
habit of thinking aloud. It was said that at the marriage of a German prince with an English
princess, at which the Duke was present, when the bridegroom pronounced the words: "With all
my worldly goods I thee endow," a voice from the circle responded, "The boots you stand in
are not paid for." But as it was sung of the aggrandizement of Austria in former days--

  "Let others war, do thou, blest Austria, wed,"

so the house of Saxe Coburg may be said in later days to have been aggrandized by weddings.
The marriage of his patron with the presumptive heiress to the Crown of England was the beginning
of Stockmar's subterranean greatness.

The Princess Charlotte expressed herself to Stockmar with regard to the character of her revered
parents in the following "pithy" manner:--"My mother was bad, but she could not have become
as bad as she was if my father had not been infinitely worse." The Regent was anxious to have
the Princess married for two reasons, in the opinion of the judicious author of this memoir--because
he wanted to be rid of his daughter, and because when she married she would form less of a
link between him and his wife. Accordingly, when she was eighteen, hints were given her through
the court physician, Sir Henry Halford (such is the course of royal love), that if she would
have the kindness to fix her affections on the hereditary Prince of Orange (afterwards King
William II. of the Netherlands), whom she had never seen, it would be exceedingly convenient.
The Prince came over to England, and, by the help of a "certain amount of artful precipitation
on the part of the father," the pair became formally engaged. The Princess said at first that
she did not think her betrothed "by any means so disagreeable as she had expected." In time,
however, this ardour of affection abated. The Prince was a baddish subject, and he had a free-and-easy
manner, and wanted tact and refinement. He returned to London from some races seated on the
outside of a coach, and in a highly excited state. Worst of all, he lodged at his tailor's.
The engagement was ultimately broken off by a difficulty with regard to the future residence
of the couple, which would evidently have become more complicated and serious if the Queen
of the Netherlands had ever inherited the Crown of England. The Princess was passionately opposed
to leaving her country. The Regent and his ministers tried to keep the poor girl in the dark,
and get her into a position from which there would be no retreat. But she had a temper and
a will of her own; and her recalcitration was assisted by the Parliamentary Opposition, who
saw in the marriage a move of Tory policy, and by her mother, who saw in it something agreeable
to her husband. Any one who wishes to see how diplomatic lovers quarrel will find instruction
in these pages.

The place left vacant by the rejected William was taken by Prince Leopold, with whom Stockmar
came to England. In Stockmar's Diary of May 5th, 1806, is the entry:--"I saw the sun (that
of royalty we presume, not the much calumniated sun of Britain) for the first time at Oatlands.
Baron Hardenbroek, the Prince's equerry, was going into the breakfast- room. I followed him,
when he suddenly signed to me with his hand to stay behind; but she had already seen me and
I her. 'Aha, docteur,' she said, 'entrez.' She was handsomer than I had expected, with most
peculiar manners, her hands generally folded behind her, her body always pushed forward, never
standing quiet, from time to time stamping her foot, laughing a great deal and talking still
more. I was examined from head to foot, without, however, losing my countenance. My first impression
was not favourable. In the evening she pleased me more. Her dress was simple and in good taste."
The Princess took to the doctor, and, of course, he took to her. A subsequent entry in his
Diary is:--"The Princess is in good humour, and then she pleases easily. I thought her dress
particularly becoming; dark roses in her hair, a short light blue dress without sleeves, with
a low round collar, a white puffed out Russian chemisette, the sleeves of lace. I have never
seen her in any dress which was not both simple and in good taste." She seems to have improved
under the influence of her husband, whom his physician calls "a manly prince and a princely
man." In her manners there was some room for improvement, if we may judge from her treatment
of Duke Prosper of Aremburg, who was one of the guests at a great dinner recorded in the Diary:--"Prosper
is a hideous little mannikin, dressed entirely in black, with a large star. The Prince presented
him to the Princess, who was at the moment talking to the Minister Castlereagh. She returned
the duke's two profound continental bows by a slight nod of the head, without looking at him
or saying a word to him, and brought her elbow so close to him that he could not move. He sat
looking straight before him with some, though not very marked, embarrassment. He exchanged
now and then a few words in French with the massive and mighty Lady Castlereagh, by whose side
he looked no larger than a child. When he left, the Princess dismissed him in the same manner
in which she had welcomed him, and broke into a loud laugh before he was fairly out of the room."

Stockmar's position in the little court was not very flattering or agreeable. The members of
the household hardly regarded the poor German physician as their equal; and if one or two of
the men were pleasant, the lady who constituted their only lawful female society, Mrs. Campbell,
Lady-in-Waiting to the Princess, was, in her ordinary moods, decidedly the reverse. Stockmar,
however, in drawing a piquant portrait of her, has recorded the extenuating circumstances that
she had once been pretty, that she had had bitter experiences with men, and that, in an illness
during a seven months' sea-voyage, she had been kept alive only on brandy and water. Col. Addenbrooke,
the equerry to the Princess, is painted in more favourable colours, his only weak point being
"a weak stomach, into which he carefully crams a mass of the most incongruous things, and then
complains the next day of fearful headache." What a power of evil is a man who keeps a diary!

Greater personages than Mrs. Campbell and Colonel Addenbrooke passed under the quick eye of
the humble medical attendant, and were photographed without being aware of it.

"The Queen Mother (Charlotte, wife of George III.). 'Small and crooked, with a true mulatto face.'

"The Regent. 'Very stout, though of a fine figure; distinguished manners; does not talk half
as much as his brothers; speaks tolerably good French. He ate and drank a good deal at dinner.
His brown scratch wig not particularly becoming.'

"The Duke of York, the eldest son of the Regent's brothers. 'Tall, with immense embonpoint,
and not proportionately strong legs; he holds himself in such a way that one is always afraid
he will tumble over backwards; very bald, and not a very intelligent face: one can see that
eating, drinking, and sensual pleasure are everything to him. Spoke a good deal of French,
with a bad accent.'

"Duchess of York, daughter of Frederick William II. of Prussia. 'A little animated woman, talks
immensely, and laughs still more. No beauty, mouth and teeth bad. She disfigures herself still
more by distorting her mouth and blinking her eyes. In spite of the Duke's various infidelities,
their matrimonial relations are good. She is quite aware of her husband's embarrassed circumstances,
and is his prime minister and truest friend; so that nothing is done without her help. As soon
as she entered the room, she looked round for the Banker Greenwood, who immediately came up
to her with the confidentially familiar manner which the wealthy go-between assumes towards
grand people in embarrassed circumstances. At dinner the Duchess related that her royal father
had forced her as a girl to learn to shoot, as he had observed she had a great aversion to
it. At a grand chasse she had always fired with closed eyes, because she could not bear to
see the sufferings of the wounded animals. When the huntsmen told her that in this way she
ran the risk of causing the game more suffering through her uncertain aims, she went to the
King and asked if he would excuse her from all sport in future if she shot a stag dead. The
King promised to grant her request if she could kill two deer, one after the other, with out
missing; which she did.'

"Duke of Clarence (afterwards King William IV.). 'The smallest and least good-looking of the
brothers, decidedly like his mother; as talkative as the rest.'

"Duke of Kent (father of Queen Victoria). 'A large, powerful man; like the King, and as bald
as any one can be. The quietest of all the Dukes I have seen; talks slowly and deliberately;
is kind and courteous.'

"Duke of Cumberland (afterwards King Ernest Augustus of Hanover). 'A tall, powerful man, with
a hideous face; can't see two inches before him; one eye turned quite out of its place.'

"Duke of Cambridge (the youngest son of George III.). 'A good- looking man, with a blonde wig;
is partly like his father, partly like his mother. Speaks French and German very well, but
like English, with such rapidity, that he carries off the palm in the family art.'

"Duke of Gloucester. 'Prominent, meaningless eyes; without being actually ugly, a very unpleasant
face, with an animal expression; large and stout, but with weak, helpless legs. He wears a
neckcloth thicker than his head.'

"Wellington, 'Middle height, neither stout nor thin; erect figure, not stiff, not very lively,
though more so than I expected, and yet in every movement repose. Black hair, simply cut, strongly
mixed with grey: not a very high forehead, immense hawk's nose, tightly compressed lips, strong
massive under jaw. After he had spoken for some time in the anteroom with the Royal Family,
he came straight to the two French singers, with whom he talked in a very friendly manner,
and then going round the circle, shook hands with all his acquaintance. He was dressed entirely
in black, with the Star of the Order of the Garter and the Maria Theresa Cross. He spoke to
all the officers present in an open friendly way, though but briefly. At table he sat next
the Princess. He ate and drank moderately, and laughed at times most heartily, and whispered
many things to the Princess' ear, which made her blush and laugh.'

"Lord Anglesea, (the General). 'Who lost a leg at Waterloo; a tall, well-made man; wild, martial
face, high forehead, with a large hawk's nose, which makes a small deep angle where it joins
the forehead. A great deal of ease in his manners. Lauderdale [Footnote: Lord Lauderdale, d.
1339; the friend of Fox; since 1807, under the Tories, an active member of the Opposition.]
told us later that it was he who brought Lady Anglesea the intelligence that her husband had
lost his leg at Waterloo. Contrary to his wishes she had been informed of his arrival, and,
before he could say a word, she guessed that he had brought her news of her husband, screamed
out, "He is dead!" and fell into hysterics. But when he said, "Not in the least; here is a
letter from him," she was so wonderfully relieved that she bore the truth with great composure.
He also related that, not long before the campaign, Anglesea was having his portrait taken,
and the picture was entirely finished except one leg. Anglesea sent for the painter and said
to him, "You had better finish the leg now. I might not bring it back with me." He lost that
very leg.'

"The Minister. Lord Castlereagh. 'Of middle height; a very striking and at the same time handsome
face; his manners are very pleasant and gentle, yet perfectly natural. One misses in him a
certain culture which one expects in a statesman of his eminence. He speaks French badly, in
fact execrably, and not very choice English. [Footnote: Lord Byron, in the introduction to
the sixth and the eighth cantos of "Don Juan" says, "It is the first time since the Normans
that England has been insulted by a minister (at least) who could not speak English, and that
Parliament permitted itself to be dictated to in the language of Mrs. Malaprop."] The Princess
rallied him on the part he played in the House of Commons as a bad speaker, as against the
brilliant orators of the Opposition, which he acknowledged merrily, and with a hearty laugh.
I am sure there is a great deal of thoughtless indifference in him, and that this has sometimes
been reckoned to him as statesmanship of a high order.'"

In proof of Castlereagh's bad French we are told in a note that, having to propose the health
of the ladies at a great dinner, he did it in the words--"Le bel sexe partoutte dans le monde."

Though looked down upon at the second table, Stockmar had thoroughly established himself in
the confidence and affection of the Prince and Princess. He had become the Prince's Secretary,
and in Leopold's own words "the most valued physician of his soul and body"--wirepuller, in
fact, to the destined wirepuller of Royalty in general.

Perhaps his gratification at having attained this position may have lent a roseate tint to
his view of the felicity of the Royal couple, which he paints in rapturous terms, saying that
nothing was so great as their love--except the British National Debt. There is, however, no
reason to doubt that the union of Leopold and Charlotte was one of the happy exceptions to
the general character of Royal marriages. Its tragic end plunged a nation into mourning. Stockmar,
with a prudence on which perhaps he reflects with a little too much satisfaction, refused to
have anything to do with the treatment of the Princess from the commencement of her pregnancy.
He thought he detected mistakes on the part of the English physicians, arising from the custom
then prevalent in England of lowering the strength of the expectant mother by bleeding, aperients,
and low diet, a regimen which was carried on for months. The Princess, in fact, having been
delivered of a dead son after a fifty hours' labour, afterwards succumbed to weakness. It fell
to Stockmar's lot to break the news to the Prince, who was overwhelmed with sorrow. At the
moment of his desolation Leopold exacted from Stockmar a promise that he would never leave
him. Stockmar gave the promise, indulging at the same time his sceptical vein by expressing
in a letter to his sister his doubt whether the Prince would remain of the same mind. This
scepticism however did not interfere with his devotion. "My health is tolerable, for though
I am uncommonly shaken, and shall be yet more so by the sorrow of the Prince, still I feel
strong enough, even stronger than I used to be. I only leave the Prince when obliged by pressing
business. I dine alone with him and sleep in his room. Directly he wakes in the night I get
up and sit talking by his bedside till he falls asleep again. I feel increasingly that unlooked
for trials are my portion in life, and that there will be many more of them before life is
over. I seem to be here more to care for others than for myself, and I am well content with
this destiny."

Sir Richard Croft, the accoucheur of the Princess, overwhelmed by the calamity, committed suicide.
"Poor Croft," exclaims the cool and benevolent Stockmar, "does not the whole thing look like
some malicious temptation, which might have overcome even some one stronger than you? The first
link in the chain of your misery was nothing but an especially honourable and desirable event
in the course of your profession. You made a mistake in your mode of treatment; still, individual
mistakes are here so easy. Thoughtlessness and excessive reliance on your own experience, prevented
you from weighing deeply the course to be followed by you. When the catastrophe had happened,
doubts, of course, arose in your mind as to whether you ought not to have acted differently,
and these doubts, coupled with the impossibility of proving your innocence to the public, even
though you were blameless, became torture to you. Peace to thy ashes, on which no guilt rests
save that thou wert not exceptionally wise or exceptionally strong."

Leopold was inclined to go home, but remained in England by the advice of Stockmar, who perceived
that, in the first place, there would be something odious in the Prince's spending his English
allowance of L50,000 a year on the Continent, and in the second place, that a good position
in England would be his strongest vantage ground in case of any new opening presenting itself
elsewhere.

About this time another birth took place in the Royal Family under happier auspices. The Duke
of Kent was married to the widowed Princess of Leiningen, a sister of Prince Leopold. The Duke
was a Liberal in politics, on bad terms with his brothers, and in financial difficulties which
prevented his living in England. Finding, however, that his Duchess was likely to present him
with an heir who would also be the heir to the Crown, and being very anxious that the child
should be born in England, he obtained the means of coming home through friends, after appealing
to his brothers in vain. Shortly after his return "a pretty little princess, plump as a partridge,"
was born. In the same year the Duke died. His widow, owing to his debts, was left in a very
uncomfortable position. Her brother Leopold enabled her to return to Kensington, where she
devoted herself to the education of her child-- Queen Victoria.

The first opening which presented itself to Leopold was the Kingdom of Greece, which was offered
him by "The Powers." After going pretty far he backed out, much to the disgust of "The Powers,"
who called him "Marquis Peu-a-peu" (the nickname given him by George IV.) and said that "he
had no colour," and that he wanted the English Regency. The fact seems to be that he and his
Stockmar, on further consideration of the enterprise, did not like the look of it. Neither
of them, especially Stockmar, desired a "crown of thorns," which their disinterested advisers
would have had them take on heroic and ascetic principles. Leopold was rather attracted by
the poetry of the thing: Stockmar was not. "For the poetry which Greece would have afforded,
I am not inclined to give very much. Mortals see only the bad side of things they have, and
the good side of the things they have not. That is the whole difference between Greece and
Belgium, though I do not mean to deny that when the first King of Greece shall, after all manner
of toils, have died, his life may not furnish the poet with excellent matter for an epic poem."
The philosophic creed of Stockmar was that "the most valuable side of life consists in its
negative conditions,"--in other words in freedom from annoyance, and in the absence of "crowns
of thorns."

The candidature of Leopold for the Greek Throne coincided with the Wellington Administration,
and the active part taken by Stockmar gave him special opportunities of studying the Duke's
political character which he did with great attention. His estimate of it is low.

"The way in which Wellington would preserve and husband the rewards of his own services and
the gifts of fortune, I took as the measure of the higher capabilities of his mind. It required
no long time, however, and no great exertion, to perceive that the natural sobriety of his
temperament, founded upon an inborn want of sensibility, was unable to withstand the intoxicating
influence of the flattery by which he was surrounded. The knowledge of himself became visibly
more and more obscured. The restlessness of his activity, and his natural lust for power, became
daily more ungovernable.

"Blinded by the language of his admirers, and too much elated to estimate correctly his own
powers, he impatiently and of his own accord abandoned the proud position of the victorious
general to exchange it for the most painful position which a human being can occupy--viz.,
the management of the affairs of a great nation with insufficient mental gifts and inadequate
knowledge. He had hardly forced himself upon the nation as Prime Minister, intending to add
the glory of a statesman to that of a warrior when he succeeded, by his manner of conducting
business, in shaking the confidence of the people. With laughable infatuation he sedulously
employed every opportunity of proving to the world the hopeless incapacity which made it impossible
for him to seize the natural connection between cause and effect. With a rare naivete he confessed
publicly and without hesitation the mistaken conclusions he had come to in the weightiest affairs
of State; mistakes with the commonest understanding could have discovered, which filled the
impartial with pitying astonishment, and caused terror and consternation even among the host
of his flatterers and partisans. Yet, so great and so strong was the preconceived opinion of
the people in his favour, that only the irresistible proofs furnished by the man's own actions
could gradually shake this opinion. It required the full force and obstinacy of this strange
self-deception in Wellington, it required the full measure of his activity and iron persistency,
in order at last, by a perpetual reiteration of errors and mistakes, to create in the people
the firm conviction that the Duke of Wellington was one of the least adroit and most mischievous
Ministers that England ever had."

Stockmar formed a more favourable opinion afterwards, when the Duke had ceased to be a party
leader, and become the Nestor of the State. But it must be allowed that Wellington's most intimate
associates and warmest friends thought him a failure as a politician. To the last he seemed
incapable of understanding the position of a constitutional minister, and talked of sacrificing
his convictions in order to support the Government, as though he were not one of the Government
that was to be supported. Nor did he ever appreciate the force of opinion or the nature of
the great European movement with which he had to deal.

It seems clear from Stockmar's statement, that Wellington used his influence over Charles X
to get the Martignac Ministry, which was moderately liberal, turned out and Polignac made Minister.
In this he doubly blundered. In the first place Polignac was not friendly but hostile to England,
and at once began to intrigue against her; in the second place he was a fool, and by his precipitate
rashness brought on the second French Revolution, which overthrew the ascendency of the Duke's
policy in Europe, and had no small influence in overthrowing the ascendency of his party in
England. It appears that the Duke was as much impressed with the "honesty" of Talleyrand, as
he was with the "ability" of Polignac.

A certain transitional phase of the European Revolution created a brisk demand for kings who
would "reign without governing." Having backed out of Greece, Leopold got Belgium. And here
we enter, in these Memoirs, on a series of chapters giving the history of the Belgian Question,
with all its supplementary entanglements, as dry as saw-dust, and scarcely readable, we should
think, at the present day, even to diplomatists, much less to mortal men. Unfortunately the
greater part of the two volumes is taken up with similar dissertations on various European
questions, while the personal touches, and details which Stockmar could have given us in abundance,
are few and far between. We seldom care much for his opinions on European questions even when
the questions themselves are still alive and the sand-built structures of diplomacy have not
been swept away by the advancing tide of revolution. The sovereigns whose wirepuller he was
were constitutional, and themselves exercised practically very little influence on the course
of events.

In the Belgian question however, he seems to have really played an active part. We get from
him a strong impression of the restless vanity and unscrupulous ambition of France. We learn
also that Leopold practised very early in the day the policy which assured him a quiet reign--that
of keeping his trunk packed and letting the people understand that if they were tired of him
he was ready to take the next train and leave them to enjoy the deluge.

Stockmar found employment especially suited to him in settling the question of Leopold's English
annuity, which was given up on the Price's election to the Crown of Belgium, but with certain
reservations, upon which the Radicals made attacks, Sir Samuel Whalley, a physician leading
the van. In the course of the struggle Stockmar received a characteristic letter from Palmerston.

"March 9,1834

"MY DEAR BARON,--I have many apologies to make to you for not having sooner acknowledged the
receipt of the papers you sent me last week, and for which I am much obliged to you. The case
seems to me as clear as day and without meaning to question the omnipotence of Parliament,
which it is well known can do anything but turn men into women and women into men, I must and
shall assert that the House of Commons have no more right to enquire into the details of those
debts and engagements, which the King of the Belgians considers himself bound to satisfy before
he begins to make his payments into the Exchequer, than they have to ask Sir Samuel Whalley
how he disposed of the fees which his mad patients used to pay him before he began to practise
upon the foolish constituents who have sent him to Parliament. There can be no doubt whatever
that we must positively resist any such enquiry, and I am very much mistaken in my estimate
of the present House of Commons if a large majority do not concur in scouting so untenable
a proposition.

"My dear Baron,

"Yours sincerely,

"PALMERSTON

"The Baron de Stockmar"

That the House of Commons cannot turn women into men is a position not so unquestioned now
as it was in Palmerston's day.

Stockmar now left England for a time, but he kept his eye on English affairs, to his continued
interest in which we owe it seems, the publication of a rather curious document, the existence
of which in manuscript was, however, well known. It is a Memoir of King William IV., purporting
to be drawn up by himself, and extending over the eventful years of 1830-35 'King William's
style,' says the uncourtly biographer, "abounds to overflowing in what is called in England
Parliamentary circumlocution, in which, instead of direct, simple expressions, bombastic paraphrases
are always chosen, which become in the end intolerably prolix and dull, and are enough to drive
a foreigner to despair." The style is indeed august; but the real penman is not the King, whose
strong point was not grammatical composition, but some confidant, very likely Sir Herbert Taylor,
who was employed by the King to negotiate with the "waverers" in the House of Lords, and get
the Reform Bill passed without a swamping creation of peers. The Memoir contains nothing of
the slightest historical importance. It is instructive only as showing how completely a constitutional
king may be under the illusion of his office--how complacently he may fancy that he is himself
guiding the State, when he is in fact merely signing what is put before him by his advisers,
who are themselves the organs of the majority in Parliament. Old William, Duke of Gloucester,
the king's uncle, being rather weak in intellect, was called "Silly Billy." When King William
IV. gave his assent to the Reform Bill, the Duke, who knew his own nickname, cried "Who's Silly
Billy now?" It would have been more difficult from the Conservative point of view to answer
that question if the King had possessed the liberty of action which in his Memoir he imagines
himself to possess.

The year 1836 opened a new field to the active beneficence of Stockmar. "The approaching majority,
and probably not distant accession to the throne, of Princess Victoria of England, engaged
the vigilant and far- sighted care of her uncle, King Leopold. At the same time he was already
making preparations for the eventual execution of a plan, which had long formed the subject
of the wishes of the Coburg family, to wit, the marriage of the future Queen of England with
his nephew, Prince Albert of Coburg." Stockmar was charged with the duty of standing by the
Princess, as her confidential adviser, at the critical moment of her coming of age, which might
also be that of her accession to the throne. Meanwhile King Leopold consulted with him as to
the manner in which Prince Albert should make acquaintance with his cousin, and how he "should
be prepared for his future vocation." This is pretty broad, and a little lets down the expressions
of intense affection for the Queen and unbounded admiration of Prince Albert with which Stockmar
overflows. However, a feeling may be genuine though its source is not divine.

Stockmar played his part adroitly. He came over to England, slipped into the place of private
Secretary to the Queen, and for fifteen months "continued his noiseless, quiet activity, without
any publicly defined position." The marriage was brought about and resulted, as we all know,
in perfect happiness till death entered the Royal home.

Stockmar was evidently very useful in guiding the Royal couple through the difficulties connected
with the settlement of the Prince's income and his rank, and with the Regency Bill. His idea
was that questions affecting the Royal family should be regarded as above party, and in this
he apparently induced the leaders of both parties to acquiesce, though they could not perfectly
control their followers. The connection with the Whigs into which the young Queen had been
drawn by attachment to her political mentor, Lord Melbourne, had strewn her path with thorns.
The Tory party was bitterly hostile to the Court. If Sir Charles Dilke and Mr. Odger wish to
provide themselves with material for retorts to Tory denunciations of their disloyalty, they
cannot do better than look up the speeches and writings of the Tory party during the years
1835-1841. What was called the Bedchamber Plot, in 1839, had rendered the relations between
the Court and the Conservative leaders still more awkward, and Stockmar appears to have done
a real service in smoothing the way for the formation of the Conservative Ministry in 1841.

Stockmar, looking at Peel from the Court point of view, was at first prejudiced against him,
especially on account of his having, in deference probably to the feelings of his party against
the Court, cut down the Prince Consort's allowance. All the more striking is the testimony
which, after long acquaintance, the Baron bears to Peel's character and merits as a statesman.

"Peel's mind and character rested on moral foundations, which I have not seen once shaken,
either in his private or his public life. From these foundations rose that never-failing spring
of fairness, honesty, kindness, moderation and regard for others, which Peel showed to all
men, and under all circumstances. On these foundations grew that love of country which pervaded
his whole being, which knew of but one object-- the true welfare of England of but one glory
and one reward for each citizen, viz., to have contributed something towards that welfare.
Such love of country admits of but one ambition, and hence the ambition of that man was as
pure as his heart. To make every sacrifice for that ambition, which the fates of his country
demand from everyone, he considered his most sacred duty, and he has made these sacrifices,
however difficult they might have been to him. Wherein lay the real difficulty of those sacrifices
will perhaps hereafter be explained by those who knew the secret of the political circumstances
and the personal character of the men with whom he was brought in contact; and who would not
think of weighing imponderable sacrifices on the balance of vulgar gain.

"The man whose feelings for his own country rested on so firm a foundation could not be dishonest
or unfair towards foreign countries. The same right understanding, fairness, and moderation,
which he evinced in his treatment of internal affairs, guided Peel in his treatment of all
foreign questions. The wish frequently expressed by him, to see the welfare of all nations
improved, was thoroughly sincere. He knew France and Italy from his own observation, and he
had studied the political history of the former with great industry. For Germany he had a good
will, nay, a predilection, particularly for Prussia.

"In his private life, Peel was a real pattern. He was the most loving, faithful, conscientious
husband, father, and brother, unchanging and indulgent to his friends, and always ready to
help his fellow-citizens according to his power.

"Of the vulnerable parts of his character his enemies may have many things to tell. What had
been observed by all who came into closer contact with him, could not escape my own observation.
I mean his too great prudence, caution, and at times, extreme reserve, in important as well
as in unimportant matters, which he showed, not only towards more distant, but even towards
his nearer acquaintances. If he was but too often sparing of words, and timidly cautious in
oral transactions, he was naturally still more so in his written communications. The fear never
left him that he might have to hear an opinion once expressed, or a, judgment once uttered
by him, repeated by the wrong man, and in the wrong place, and misapplied. His friends were
sometimes in despair over this peculiarity. To his opponents it supplied an apparent ground
for suspicion and incrimination. It seemed but too likely that there was a doubtful motive
for such reserve, or that it was intended to cover narrowness and weakness of thought and feeling,
or want of enterprise and courage. To me also this peculiarity deemed often injurious to himself
and to the matter in hand; and I could not help being sometimes put out by it, and wishing
from the bottom of my heart that he could have got rid of it. But when one came to weigh the
acts of the man against his manner, the disagreeable impression soon gave way. I quickly convinced
myself, that this, to me, so objectionable a trait was but an innate peculiarity; and that
in a sphere of activity where thoughtless unreserve and laisser aller showed themselves in
every possible form, Peel was not likely to find any incentive, or to form a resolution to
overcome, in this point, his natural disposition.

"I have been told, or I have read it somewhere, that Peel was the most successful type of political
mediocrity. In accepting this estimate of my departed friend as perfectly true, I ask Heaven
to relieve all Ministers, within and without Europe, of their superiority, and to endow them
with Peel's mediocrity: and I ask this for the welfare of all nations, and in the firm conviction
that ninety-nine hundredths of the higher political affairs can be properly and successfully
conducted by such Ministers only as possess Peel's mediocrity: though I am willing to admit
that the remaining hundredth may, through the power and boldness of a true genius, be brought
to a particularly happy, or, it may be, to a particularly unhappy, issue."

Of the late Lord Derby, on the other hand, Stockmar speaks with the greatest contempt, calling
him "a frivolous aristocrat who delighted in making mischief. "It does not appear whether the
two men ever came into collision with each other, but if they did, Lord Derby was likely enough
to leave a sting.

Stockmar regularly spent a great part of each year with the English Royal Family. Apartments
were appropriated to him in each of the Royal residences, and he lived with the Queen and Prince
on the footing of an intimate, or rather of a member, and almost the father, of the family.
Indeed, he used a familiarity beyond that of any friend or relative. Having an objection to
taking leave, he was in the habit of disappearing without notice, and leaving his rooms vacant
when the fancy took him. Then we are told, letters complaining of his faithlessness would follow
him, and in course of time others urging his return. Etiquette, the highest of all laws, was
dispensed within his case. After dining with the Queen, when Her Majesty had risen from table,
and after holding a circle had sat down again to tea, Stockmar would generally be seen walking
straight through the drawing-room and returning to his apartment, there to study his own comfort.
More than this, when Mordecai became the King's favorite, he was led forth on the royal steed,
apparelled in the royal robe, and with the royal crown upon his head. A less demonstrative
and picturesque, but not less signal or significant, mark of Royal favor was bestowed on Stockmar.
In his case tights were dispensed with, and he was allowed to wear trousers, which better suited
his thin legs. We believe this exemption to be without parallel, though we have heard of a
single dispensation being granted, after many searchings of heart, in a case where the invitation
had been sudden, and the mystic garment did not exist, and also of a more melancholy case,
in which the garment was split in rushing down to dinner, and its wearer was compelled to appear
in the forbidden trousers, and very late, without the possibility of explaining what had occurred.

Notwithstanding the enormous power indicated by his privileged nether limbs, Stockmar remained
disinterested. A rich Englishman, described as an author, and member of Parliament, called
upon him one day, and promised to give him L10,000 if he would further his petition to the
Queen for a peerage. Stockmar replied, "I will now go into the next room, in order to give
you time. If upon my return I still find you here, I shall have you turned out by the servants."

We are told that the Baron had little intercourse with any circles but those of the court--a
circumstance which was not likely to diminish any bad impressions that might prevail with regard
to his secret influence. Among his intimate friends in the household was his fellow-countryman
Dr. Pratorius, "who ever zealously strengthened the Prince's inclinations in the sense which
Stockmar desired, and always insisted upon the highest moral considerations." Nature, in the
case of the doctor; had not been so lavish of personal beauty as of moral endowments. The Queen
was once reading the Bible with her daughter, the little Princess Victoria. They came to the
passage, "God created man in his own image, in the image of God created He him." "O Mamma,"
cried the Princess, "not Dr. Pratorius!"

Stockmar's administrative genius effected a reform in the Royal household, and as appears from
his memorandum, not before there was occasion for it. "The housekeepers, pages, housemaids,
etc., are under the authority of the Lord Chamberlain; all the footmen, livery-porters and
under-butlers, by the strangest anomaly, under that of Master of the Horse, at whose office
they are clothed and paid; and the rest of the servants, such as the clerk of the kitchen,
the cooks, the porters, etc., are under the jurisdiction of the Lord Steward. Yet these ludicrous
divisions extend not only to persons, but likewise to things and actions. The Lord Steward,
for example, finds the fuel and lays the fire, and the Lord Chamberlain lights it. Worse than
this--"There is no one who attends to the comforts of the Queen's guests on their arrival at
the Royal residence. When they arrive at present there is no one prepared to show them to or
from their apartments; there is no gentleman in the palace who even knows where they are lodged,
and there is not even a servant who can perform this duty, which is attached to the Lord Chamberlain's
department. It frequently happens at Windsor that some of the visitors are at a loss to find
the drawing-room, and, at night, if they happen to forget the right entrance from the corridor,
they wander for an hour helpless, and unassisted. There is nobody to apply to in such a case,
for it is not in the department of the Master of the Household, and the only remedy is to send
a servant, if one can be found, to the porter's lodge, to ascertain the apartment in question."
People were rather surprised when the boy Jones was discovered, at one o'clock in the morning,
under the sofa in the room adjoining Her Majesty's bedroom. But it seems nobody was responsible--not
the Lord Chamberlain, who was in Staffordshire, and in whose department the porters were not;
not the Lord Steward, who was in London, and had nothing to do with the pages and attendants
nearest to the royal person; not the Master of the Household, who was only a subordinate officer
in the Lord Steward's department. So the King of Spain, who was roasted to death because the
right Lord-in-Waiting could not be found to take him from the fire, was not without a parallel
in that which calls itself the most practical of nations. Stockmar reformed the system by simply
inducing each of the three great officers, without nominally giving up his authority (which
would have shaken the foundations of the Monarchy), to delegate so much of it as would enable
the fire to be laid and lighted by the same power. We fancy, however, that even since the Stockmarian
reconstruction, we have heard of guests finding themselves adrift in the corridors of Windsor.
There used to be no bells to the rooms, it being assumed that in the abode of Royalty servants,
were always within call, a theory which would have been full of comfort to any nervous gentleman,
who, on the approach of the royal dinner hour, might happen to find himself left with somebody
else's small clothes.

In 1854 came the outbreak of public feeling against Prince Albert and Stockmar, as his friend
and adviser, to which we have referred at the beginning of this article. The Prince's lamented
death caused such a reaction of feeling in his favor that it is difficult now to recall to
recollection the degree of unpopularity under which he at one time laboured. Some of the causes
of this unpopularity are correctly stated by the author of the present memoir. The Prince was
a foreigner, his ways were not those of Englishmen, he did not dress like an Englishman, shake
hands like an Englishman. He was suspected of "Germanizing" tendencies, very offensive to high
churchmen, especially in philosophy and religion. He displeased the Conservatives by his Liberalism,
the coarser Radicals by his pietism and culture. He displeased the fast set by his strict morality;
they called him slow, because he did not bet, gamble, use bad language, keep an opera dancer.
With more reason he displeased the army by meddling, under the name of a too courtly Commander-in-Chief,
with professional matters which he could not understand. But there was a cause of his unpopularity
scarcely appreciable by the German author of this memoir. He had brought with him the condescending
manner of a German Prince. The English prefer a frank manner; they will bear a high manner
in persons of sufficient rank, but a condescending manner they will not endure; nor will any
man or woman but those who live in a German Court. So it was, however, that the Prince, during
his life, though respected by the people for his virtues, and by men of intellect for his culture,
was disliked and disparaged by "Society," and especially by the great ladies who are at the
head of it. The Conservatives, male and female, had a further grudge against him as the reputed
friend of Peel, who was the object of their almost demoniac hatred.

The part of a Prince Consort is a very difficult one to play. In the case of Queen Anne's husband,
Prince George of Denmark, nature solved the difficulty by not encumbering his Royal Highness
with any brains. But Prince Albert had brains, and it was morally impossible that he should
not exercise a power not contemplated by the Constitution. He did so almost from the first,
with the full knowledge and approbation of the Ministers, who had no doubt the sense to see
what could not be avoided had better be recognised and kept under control. But in 1851 the
Court quarrelled with Palmerston, who was dismissed from office, very properly, for having,
in direct violation of a recent order of the Queen, communicated to the French Ambassador his
approval of the coup d'etat, without the knowledge of Her Majesty or the Cabinet. In 1854 came
the rupture with Russia, which led to the Crimean war. Palmerston, in correspondence with his
friend the French Emperor, was working for a war, with a separate French alliance. Prince Albert,
in conjunction with Aberdeen, was trying to keep the Four Powers together, and by their combined
action to avert a war. Palmerston and his partizans appealed through the press to the people,
among whom the war feeling was growing strong, against the unconstitutional influence of the
Prince Consort and his foreign advisers. Thereupon arose a storm of insane suspicion and fury
which almost recalled the fever of the Popish Plot. Thousands of Londoners collected round
the Tower to see the Prince's entry into the State Prison, and dispersed only upon being told
that the Queen had said that if her husband was sent to prison she would go with him. Reports
were circulated of a pamphlet drawn up under Palmerston's eye, and containing the most damning
proofs of the Prince's guilt, the publication of which it was said the Prince had managed to
prevent, but of which six copies were still in existence. The pamphlet was at last printed
in extenso in the Times, and the bottled lightning proved to be ditchwater. Of course Stockmar,
the "spy," the "agent of Leopold," did not escape denunciation, and though it was proved he
had been at Coburg all the time, people persisted in believing he was concealed about the Court,
coming out only at night. The outcry was led by the Morning Post, Lord Palmerston's personal
organ, and the Morning Advertiser, the bellicose and truly British journal of the Licensed
Victuallers; but these were supported by the Conservative press, and by some Radical papers.
A debate in Parliament broke the waterspout as quickly as it had been formed. The people had
complained with transports of rage that the Prince Consort exercised an influence unrecognised
by the Constitution in affairs of State. They were officially assured that he did; and they
at once declared themselves perfectly satisfied.

Our readers would not thank us for taking them again through the question of the Spanish marriages,
a transaction which Stockmar viewed in the only way in which the most criminal and the filthiest
of intrigues could be viewed by an honest man and a gentleman; or through the question of German
unity, on which his opinions have been at once ratified and deprived of their practical interest
by events. The last part of his life he passed in Germany, managing German Royalties, especially
the Prince and Princess Frederick William of Prussia, for whom he had conceived a profound
affection. His presence, we are told, was regarded by German statesmen and magnates as "uncanny,"
and Count K., on being told that it was Stockmar with whom an acquaintance had just crossed
a bridge, asked the acquaintance why he had not pitched the Baron into the river. That Stockmar
did not deserve such a fate, the testimony cited at the beginning of this paper is sufficient
to prove. He was the unrecognised Minister of Constitutional Sovereigns who wanted, besides
their regular Parliamentary advisers, a personal adviser to attend to the special interests
of royalty. It was a part somewhat clandestine, rather equivocal, and not exactly such as a
very proud man would choose. But Stockmar was called to it by circumstances, he was admirably
adapted for it, and if it sometimes led him further than he was entitled or qualified to go,
he played it on the whole very well.

THE EARLY YEARS OF THE CONQUEROR OF QUEBEC

A discussion which was raised some time ago by a very pleasant article of Professor Wilson
in the Canadian Monthly disclosed the fact that Wright's "Life of Wolfe," though it had been
published some years, was still very little known. It is not only the best but the only complete
life of the soldier, so memorable in Canadian annals, whom Chatham's hand launched on our coast,
a thunderbolt of war, and whose victory decided that the destiny of this land of great possibilities
should be shaped not by French but by British hands. Almost all that is known about Wolfe is
here, and it is well told. Perhaps the biographer might have enhanced the interest of the figure
by a more vivid presentation of its historic surroundings. It is when viewed in comparison
with an age which was generally one of unbelief, of low aims, of hearts hardened by vice, of
blunted affections, of coarse excesses, and in the military sphere one of excesses more than
usually coarse, of professional ignorance and neglect of duty among the officers, while the
habits of the rank and file were those depicted in Hogarth's March to Finckley that the life
of this aspiring, gentle, affectionate, pure and conscientious soldier shines forth against
the dark background like a star.

Squerryes Court, near Westerham, in Kent, is an ample and pleasant mansion in the Queen Anne
style, which has long been in the possession of the Warde family--they are very particular
about the e. In later times it was the abode of a memorable character in his way--old John
Warde, the "Father of Fox-hunting." There it was that the greatest of all fox-hunters, Asheton
Smithe, when on a visit to John Warde, rode Warde's horse Blue Ruin over a frozen country through
a fast run of twenty-five minutes and killed his fox. On the terrace stands a monument. It
marks the spot where in 1741, James Wolfe, the son of Lieut-Col. Wolfe, of Westerham, then
barely fourteen years of age, was playing with two young Wardes, when the father of the playmates
approached and handed him a large letter "On His Majesty's Service" which, on being opened,
was found to contain his commission in the army. We may be sure that the young face flushed
with undisguised emotion. There cannot be a greater contrast than that which the frank, impulsive
features, sanguine complexion, and blue eyes of Wolfe present to the power expressed in the
commanding brow, the settled look, and the evil eye [Footnote: The late Lord Russell, who had
seen Napoleon at Elba, used to say that there was something very evil in his eye.] of Napoleon.

James Wolfe was a delicate child, and though he grew energetic and fearless, never grew strong,
or ceased to merit the interest which attaches to a gallant spirit in a weak frame. He escaped
a public school, and without any forfeiture of the manliness which public schools are supposed
exclusively to produce, retained his home affections and his tenderness of heart. He received
the chief part of his literary education in a school at Greenwich, where his parents resided,
and he at all events learned enough Latin to get himself a dinner, in his first campaign on
the Continent, by asking for it in that language. He is grateful to his schoolmaster, Mr. Stebbings,
and speaks of him with affection in afterlife. But no doubt his military intelligence, as well
as his military tastes, was gained by intercourse with his father, a real soldier, who had
pushed his way by merit in an age of corrupt patronage, and was Adjutant-General to Lord Cathcart's
forces in 1740. Bred in a home of military duty, the young soldier saw before him a worthy
example of conscientious attention to all the details of the profession--not only to the fighting
of battles, but to the making of the soldiers with whom battles are to be fought.

Walpole's reign of peace was over, the "Patriots" had driven the nation into war, and the trade
of Colonel Wolfe and his son was again in request. Before he got his commission, and when he
was only thirteen years-and a-half old, the boy's ardent spirit led him to embark with his
father as a volunteer in the ill-fated expedition to Carthagena. Happily, though he assured
his mother that he was "in a very good state of health," his health was so far from being good
that they were obliged to put him on shore at Portsmouth. Thus he escaped that masterpiece
of the military and naval administration of the aristocracy, to the horrors of which his frail
frame would undoubtedly have succumbed. His father saw the unspeakable things depicted with
ghastly accuracy by Smollett, and warned his son never, if he could help it, to go on joint
expeditions of the two services--a precept which the soldier of an island power would have
found it difficult to observe.

Wolfe's mother had struggled to prevent her boy from going, and appealed to his love of her.
It was a strong appeal, for he was the most dutiful of sons. The first in the series of his
letters is one written to her on this occasion, assuring her of his affection and promising
to write to her by every ship he meets. She kept all his letters from this one to the last
written from the banks of the St. Lawrence. They are in the stiff old style, beginning "Dear
Madam," and signed "dutiful;" but they are full of warm feeling, scarcely interrupted by a
little jealousy of temper which there appears to have been on the mother's side.

Wolfe's first commission was in his father's regiment of marines, but he never served as a
marine. He could scarcely have done so, for to the end of his life, he suffered tortures from
sea-sickness. He is now an Ensign in Duroure's regiment of foot. We see him a tall slender
boy of fifteen, in scarlet coat, folded back from the breast after the old fashion in broad
lapels to display its white or yellow lining, breeches and gaiters, with his young face surmounted
by a wig and a cocked hat edged with gold lace, setting off, colours in hand, with his regiment
for the war in the Low Countries. If he missed seeing aristocratic management at Carthagena,
he shall see aristocratic and royal strategy at Dettingen. His brother Ned, a boy still more
frail than himself, but emulous of his military ardour, goes in another regiment on the same
expedition.

The regiment was accidentally preceded by a large body of troops of the other sex, who landing
unexpectedly by themselves at Ostend caused some perplexity to the Quartermaster. The home
affections must have been strong which could keep a soldier pure in those days.

The regiment was at first quartered at Ghent, where, amidst the din of garrison riot and murderous
brawls, we hear the gentle sound of Wolfe's flute, and where he studies the fortifications,
already anxious to prepare himself for the higher walks of his profession. From Ghent the army
moved to the actual scene of war in Germany, suffering of course on the march from the badness
of the commissariat. Wolfe's body feels the fatigue and hardship. He "never comes into quarters
without aching hips and thighs." But he is "in the greatest spirits in the world." "Don't tell
me of a constitution" he said afterwards, when a remark was made on the weakness of a brother
officer, "he has good spirits, and good spirits will carry a man through everything."

All the world knows into what a position His Martial Majesty King George II., with the help
of sundry persons of quality, styling themselves generals, got the British army at Dettingen,
and how the British soldier fought his way out of the scrape. Wolfe was in the thick of it,
and his horse was shot under him. His first letter is to his mother--"I take the very first
opportunity I can to acquaint you that my brother and self escaped in the engagement we had
with the French, the 16th June last, and, thank God, are as well as ever we were in our lives,
after not only being canonnaded two hours and three quarters, and fighting with small arms
two hours and one quarter, but lay the two following nights upon our arms, whilst it rained
for about twenty hours in the same time; yet are ready and as capable to do the same again."
But this letter is followed by one to his father, which seems to us to rank among the wonders
of literature. It is full of fire and yet as calm as a dispatch, giving a complete, detailed,
and masterly account of the battle, and showing that the boy kept his head, and played the
part of a good officer as well as of a brave soldier in his first field. The cavalry did indifferently,
and there is a sharp soldiery criticism on the cause of its failure. But the infantry did better.

"The third and last attack was made by the foot on both sides. We advanced towards one another;
our men in high spirits, and very impatient for fighting, being elated with beating the French
Horse, part of which advanced towards us, while the rest attacked our Horse, but were soon
driven back by the great fire we gave them. The Major and I (for we had neither Colonel nor
Lieutenant-Colonel), before they came near, were employed in begging and ordering the men not
to fire at too great a distance, but to keep it till the enemy should come near us; but to
little purpose. The whole fired when they thought they could reach them, which had like to
have ruined us. We did very little execution with it. As soon as the French saw we presented
they all fell down, and when we had fired they got up and marched close to us in tolerable
good order, and gave us a brisk fire, which put us into some disorder and made us give way
a little, particularly ours and two or three more regiments who were in the hottest of it.
However, we soon rallied again, and attacked them again with great fury, which gained us a
complete victory, and forced the enemy to retire in great haste."

Edward distinguished himself, too. "I sometimes thought I had lost poor Ned, when I saw arms
and legs and heads beat off close by him. He is called 'The old Soldier,' and very deservedly."
Poor "Old Soldier," his career was as brief as that of a shooting star. Next year he dies,
not by sword or bullet, but of consumption hastened by hardships--dies alone in a foreign land,
"often calling on those who were dear to him;" his brother, though within reach, being kept
away by the calls of duty and by ignorance of the danger. The only comfort was that he had
a faithful servant, and that as he shared with his brother the gift of winning hearts, brother
officers were likely to be kind. James, writing to their mother, some time after, shed tears
over the letter.

Though only sixteen, Wolfe had acted as Adjutant to his regiment at Dettingen. He was regularly
appointed Adjutant a few days after. His father, as we have seen, had been an Adjutant-General.
Even under the reign of Patronage there was one chance for merit. Patronage could not do without
adjutants. From this time, Wolfe, following in his father's footsteps, seems to have given
his steady attention to the administrative and, so far as his very scanty opportunities permitted,
to the scientific part of his profession.

Happily for him, he was not at Fontenoy. But he was at Laffeldt, and saw what must have been
a grand sight for a soldier--the French infantry coming down from the heights in one vast column,
ten battalions in front and as many deep, to attack the British position in the village. After
all, it was not by the British, but by the Austrians and Dutch, that Laffeldt was lost. We
have no account of the battle from Wolfe's pen. But he was wounded, and it is stated, on what
authority his biographer does not tell us, that he was thanked by the Commander-in-Chief. Four
years afterwards he said of his old servant, Roland: "He came to me at the hazard of his life,
in the last action, with offers of his service, took off my cloak, and brought a fresh horse,
and would have continued close by me had I not ordered him to retire. I believe he was slightly
wounded just at that time, and the horse he held was shot likewise. Many a time has he pitched
my tent and made the bed ready to receive me, half dead with fatigue, and this I owe to his
diligence."

But between Dettingen and Laffeldt, Wolfe had been called to serve on a different scene. The
Patriots, in bringing on a European war, had renewed the Civil War at home. Attached to the
army sent against the Pretender, Wolfe (now major), fought under "Hangman Hawley," in the blundering
and disastrous hustle at Falkirk, and, on a happier day, under Cumberland at Culloden. Some
years afterwards he revisited the field of Culloden, and he has recorded his opinion that there
also "somebody blundered," though he refrains from saying who. The mass of the rebel army,
he seems to think, ought not to have been allowed to escape. These campaigns were a military
curiosity. The Roman order of battle, evidently intended to repair a broken front, was perhaps
a lesson taught the Roman tacticians on the day when their front was broken by the rush of
the Celtic clans at Allia. That rush produced the same effect on troops unaccustomed to it
and unprepared for it at Killiecrankie, and again at Preston Pans and Falkirk. At Culloden
the Duke of Cumberland formed so as to repair a broken front, and when the rush came, but few
of the Highlanders got beyond the second line. Killiecrankie and Preston Pans tell us nothing
against Discipline.

There is an apocryphal anecdote of the Duke's cruelty and of Wolfe's humanity towards the wounded
after the battle,--"Wolfe, shoot me that Highland scoundrel who thus dares to look on us with
such contempt and insolence." "My commission is at your Royal Highness's disposal, but I never
can consent to become an executioner." The anecdotist adds that from that day Wolfe declined
in the favour and confidence of the Commander-in-Chief. But it happens that Wolfe did nothing
of the kind. On the other hand, Mr. Wright does not doubt, nor is there any ground for doubting,
the identity of the Major Wolfe who, under orders, relieves a Jacobite lady, named Gordon,
of a considerable amount of stores and miscellaneous property accumulated in her house, but
according to her own account belonging partly to other people; among other things, of a collection
of pictures to make room for which, as she said, she had been obliged to send away her son,
who was missing at that critical juncture. The duty was a harsh one, but seems, by Mrs. Gordon's
own account, not to have been harshly performed. If any property that ought to have been restored
was kept, it was kept not by Wolfe but by "Hangman Hawley." Still one could wish to see Wolfe
fighting on a brighter field than Culloden, and engaged in a work more befitting a soldier
than the ruthless extirpation of rebellion which ensued.

The young soldier is now thoroughly in love with his profession. "A battle gained," he says,
"is, I believe the highest joy mankind is capable of receiving to him who commands; and his
merit must be equal to his success if it works no change to his disadvantage." He dilates on
the value of war as a school of character. "We have all our passions and affections roused
and exercised, many of which must have wanted their proper employment had not suitable occasions
obliged us to exert them. Few men are acquainted with the degrees of their own courage till
danger prove them, and are seldom justly informed how far the love of honour and dread of shame
are superior to the love of life." But now peace comes, the sword is consigned to rust, and
in promotion Patronage resumes its sway. "In these cooler times the parliamentary interest
and weight of particular families annihilate all other pretensions." The consequence was, of
course, that when the hotter times returned they found the army officered by fine gentlemen,
and its path, as Napier says, was like that of Satan in "Paradise Lost" through chaos to death.

Wolfe would fain have gone abroad (England affording no schools) to complete his military and
general education; but the Duke of Cumberland's only notion of military education was drill;
so Wolfe had to remain with his regiment. It was quartered in Scotland, and besides the cankering
inaction to which the gallant spirit was condemned, Scotch quarters were not pleasant in those
days. The country was socially as far from London as Norway. The houses were small, dirty,
unventilated, devoid of any kind of comfort; and habits and manners were not much better than
the habitations. Perhaps Wolfe saw the Scotch society of those days through an unfavourable
medium, at all events he did not find it charming. "The men here," he writes from Glasgow,
"are civil, designing, and treacherous, with their immediate interest always in view; they
pursue trade with warmth and a necessary mercantile spirit, arising from the baseness of their
other qualifications. The women coarse, cold and cunning, for ever enquiring after men's circumstances;
they make that the standing of their good breeding." Even the sermons failed to please. "I
do several things in my character of commanding officer which I should never think of in any
other; for instance, I'm every Sunday at the Kirk, an example justly to be admired. I would
not lose two hours of a day if it would not answer some end. When I say 'lose two hours,' I
must complain to you that the generality of Scotch preachers are excessive blockheads, so truly
and obstinately dull, that they seem to shut out knowledge at every entrance." If Glasgow and
Perth were bad, still worse were dreary Banff and barbarous Inverness. The Scotch burghers,
their ladies, and the preachers are entitled to the benefit of the remark that the Scotch climate
greatly affected Wolfe's sensitive frame, and that he took a wrong though established method
of keeping out the cold and damp. When there is nothing in the way of action to lift the soul
above the clay his spirits, as he admits rise and fall with the weather and his impressions
vary with them. "I'm sorry to say that my writings are greatly influenced by the state of my
body or mind at the time of writing and I'm either happy or ruined by my last night's rest
or from sunshine or light and sickly air; such infirmity is the mortal frame subject to."

Inverness was the climax of discomfort, coarseness and dulness, as well as a centre of disaffection.
Quarters there in those days must have been something like quarters in an Indian village, with
the Scotch climate superadded. The houses were hovels, worse and more fetid than those at Perth.
Even when it was fine there was no amusement but shooting woodcocks at the risk of rheumatism.
When the rains poured down and the roads were broken up there was no society, not even a newspaper,
nothing to be done but to eat coarse food and sleep in bad beds. If there was a laird in the
neighbourhood he was apt to be some 'Bumper John' whose first act of hospitality was to make
you drunk. "I wonder how long a man moderately inclined that way would require in a place like
this to wear out his love for arms and soften his martial spirit. I believe the passion would
be something diminished in less than ten years and the gentleman be contented to be a little
lower than Caesar in the list to get rid of the encumbrance of greatness."

It is in his dreary quarters at Inverness at the dead of night perhaps with a Highland tempest
howling outside that the future conqueror of Quebec thus moralizes on his own condition and
prospects in a letter to his mother:

"The winter wears away, so do our years and so does life itself, and it matters little where
a man passes his days and what station he fills or whether he be great or considerable but
it imports him something to look to his manner of life. This day am I twenty five years of
age, and all that time is as nothing. When I am fifty (if it so happens) and look back, it
will be the same, and so on to the last hour. But it is worth a moment's consideration that
one may be called away on a sudden unguarded and unprepared, and the oftener these thoughts
are entertained the less will be the dread or fear of death. You will judge by this sort of
discourse that it is the dead of night when all is quiet and at rest, and one of those intervals
wherein men think of what they really are and what they really should be, how much is expected
and how little performed. Our short duration here and the doubts of the hereafter should awe
the most flagitious, if they reflected on them. The little taken in for meditation is the best
employed in all their lives for if the uncertainty of our state and being is then brought before
us who is there that will not immediately discover the inconsistency of all his behaviour and
the vanity of all his pursuits? And yet, we are so mixed and compounded that, though I think
seriously this minute, and lie down with good intentions, it is likely I may rise with my old
nature, or perhaps with the addition of some new impertinence, and be the same wandering lump
of idle errors that I have ever been.

"You certainly advise me well. You have pointed out the only way where there can be no disappointment,
and comfort that will never fail us, carrying men steadily and cheerfully in their journey,
and a place of rest at the end. Nobody can be more persuaded of it than I am; but situation,
example, the current of things, and our natural weakness, draw me away with the herd, and only
leave me just strength enough to resist the worst degree of our iniquities. There are times
when men fret at trifles and quarrel with their toothpicks. In one of these ill-habits I exclaim
against the present condition, and think it is the worst of all; but coolly and temperately
it is plainly the best. Where there is most employment and least vice, there one should wish
to be. There is a meanness and a baseness not to endure with patience the little inconveniences
we are subject to; and to know no happiness but in one spot, and that in ease, in luxury, in
idleness, seems to deserve our contempt. There are young men amongst us that have great revenues
and high military stations, that repine at three months' service with their regiments if they
go fifty miles from home. Soup and venaison and turtle are their supreme delight and joy,--an
effeminate race of coxcombs, the future leaders of our armies, defenders and protectors of
our great and free nation!

"You bid me avoid Fort William, because you believe it still worse than this place. Better
be a savage of some use than a gentle, amorous puppy, obnoxious to all the world. One of the
wildest of wild clans is a worthier being than a perfect Philander."

Wolfe, it must be owned, does not write well. He has reason to envy, as he does, the grace
of the female style. He is not only ungrammatical, which, in a familiar letter, is a matter
of very small consequence, but somewhat stilted. Perhaps it was like the "Madam," the fashion
of the Johnsonian era. Yet beneath the buckram you always feel that there is a heart. Persons
even of the same profession are cast in very different moulds; and the mould of Wolfe was as
different as possible from that of the Iron Duke.

Wolfe's dreary garrison leisures in Scotland, however, were not idle. His books go with him,
and he is doing his best to cultivate himself, both professionally and generally. He afterwards
recommends to a friend, evidently from his own experience, a long list of military histories
and other works ancient and modern. The ancients he read in translations. His range is wide
and he appreciates military genius in all its forms. "There is an abundance of military knowledge
to be picked out of the lives of Gustavus Adolphus and Charles XII., King of Sweden, and of
Zisca the Bohemian, and if a tolerable account could be got of the exploits of Scanderbeg,
it would be inestimable, for he excels all the officers ancient and modern in the conduct of
a small defensive army." At Louisburg, Wolfe put in practice, with good effect, a manoeuvre
which he had learned from the Carduchi in Xenophon, showing perhaps by this reproduction of
the tactics employed two thousand years before by a barbarous tribe, that in the so-called
art of war there is a large element which is not progressive. Books will never make a soldier,
but Wolfe, as a military student, had the advantage of actual experience of war. Whenever he
could find a teacher, he studied mathematics, zealously though apparently not with delight.
"I have read the mathematics till I am grown perfectly stupid, and have algebraically worked
away the little portion of understanding that was allowed to me. They have not even left me
the qualities of a coxcomb for I can neither laugh nor sing nor talk an hour upon nothing.
The latter of these is a sensible loss, for it excludes a gentleman from all good company and
makes him entirely unfit for the conversation of the polite world." "I don't know how the mathematics
may assist the judgment, but they have a great tendency to make men dull. I who am far from
being sprightly even in my gaiety, am the very reverse of it at this time." Certainly to produce
sprightliness is neither the aim nor the general effect of mathematics. That while military
education was carried on, general culture was not wholly neglected, is proved by the famous
exclamation about Gray's Elegy, the most signal homage perhaps that a poet ever received. At
Glasgow, where there is a University, Wolfe studies mathematics in the morning, in the afternoon
he endeavours to regain his lost Latin.

Nor in training himself did he neglect to train his soldiers. He had marked with bitterness
of heart the murderous consequence to which neglect of training had led in the beginning of
every war. Probably he had the army of Frederick before his eyes. His words on musketry practice
may still have an interest. "Marksmen are nowhere so necessary as in a mountainous country;
besides, firing at objects teaches the soldiers to level incomparably, makes the recruit steady,
and removes the foolish apprehension that seizes young soldiers when they first load their
arms with bullets. We fire, first singly, then by files, one, two, three, or more, then by
ranks, and lastly by platoons; and the soldiers see the effects of their shots, especially
at a mark or upon water. We shoot obliquely and in different situations of ground, from heights
downwards and contrariwise."

Military education and attention to the details of the profession were not very common under
the Duke of Wellington. They were still less common under the Duke of Cumberland. Before he
was thirty, Wolfe was a great military authority, and what was required of Chatham, in his
case, was not so much the eye to discern latent merit, as the boldness to promote merit over
the head of rank.

In a passage just quoted Wolfe expresses his fear lest command should make him tyrannical.
He was early tried by the temptation of power. He became Lieut.-Colonel at twenty-five; but
in the absence of his Colonel he had already been in command at Stirling when he was only twenty-
three. This was in quarters where he was practically despotic. He does not fail in his letters
to pour out his heart on his situation. "Tomorrow Lord George Sackville goes away, and I take
upon me the difficult and troublesome employment of a commander. You can't conceive how difficult
a thing it is to keep the passions within bounds, when authority and immaturity go together:
to endeavour at a character which has every opposition from within, and that the very condition
of the blood is a sufficient obstacle to. Fancy you see me that must do justice to good and
bad; reward and punish with an equal unbiassed hand; one that is to reconcile the severity
of discipline with the dictates of humanity, one that must study the tempers and dispositions
of many men, in order to make their situation easy and agreeable to them, and should endeavour
to oblige all without partiality; a mark set up for everybody to observe and judge of; and
last of all, suppose one employed in discouraging vice, and recommending the reverse, at the
turbulent age of twenty-three, when it is possible I may have as great a propensity that way
as any of the men that I converse with." He had difficulties of character to contend with,
as well as difficulties of age. His temper was quick; he knew it. "My temper is much too warm,
and sudden resentment forces out expressions and even actions that are neither justifiable
nor excusable, and perhaps I do not conceal the natural heat so much as I ought to do." He
even felt that he was apt to misconstrue the intentions of those around him, and to cherish
groundless prejudices. "I have that wicked disposition of mind that whenever I know that people
have entertained a very ill opinion, I imagine they never change. From whence one passes easily
to an indifference about them, and then to dislike, and though I flatter myself that I have
the seeds of justice strong enough to keep from doing wrong, even to an enemy, yet there lurks
a hidden poison in the heart that it is difficult to root out. It is my misfortune to catch
fire on a sudden, to answer letters the moment I receive them, when they touch me sensibly,
and to suffer passion to dictate my expressions more than my reason. The next day, perhaps,
would have changed this, and earned more moderation with it. Every ill turn of my life has
had this haste and first impulse of the moment for its cause, and it proceeds from pride."
Solitary command and absence from the tempering influences of general society were, as he keenly
felt, likely to aggravate his infirmities. Yet he proves not only a successful but a popular
commander, and he seems never to have lost his friends. The "seeds of justice" no doubt were
really strong, and the transparent frankness of his character, its freedom from anything like
insidiousness or malignity, must have had a powerful effect in dispelling resentment.

His first regimental minute, of which his biographer gives us an abstract, evinces a care for
his men which must have been almost startling in the days of "Hangman Hawley." He desires to
be acquainted in writing with the men and the companies they belong to, and as soon as possible
with their characters, that he may know the proper objects to encourage, and those over whom
it will be necessary to keep a strict hand. The officers are enjoined to visit the soldiers'
quarters frequently; now and then to go round between nine and eleven o'clock at night, and
not trust to sergeants' reports. They are also requested to watch the looks of the privates,
and observe whether any of them were paler than usual, that the reason might be inquired into
and proper means used to restore them to their former vigour. Subalterns are told that "a young
officer should not think he does too much." But firmness, and great firmness, must have been
required, as well as watchfulness and kindness. His confidential expressions with regard to
the state of the army are as strong as words can make them. "I have a very mean opinion of
the Infantry in general. I know their discipline to be bad and their valour precarious. They
are easily put into disorder and hard to recover out of it. They frequently kill their officers
in their fear and murder one another in their confusion." "Nothing, I think, can hurt their
discipline--it is at its worst. They shall drink and swear, plunder and murder, with any troops
in Europe, the Cossacks and Calmucks themselves not excepted." "If I stay much longer with
the regiment I shall be perfectly corrupt; the officers are loose and profligate and the soldiers
are very devils." He brought the 67th, however, into such a condition that it remained a model
regiment for years after he was gone.

Nor were the duties of a commanding officer in Scotland at that period merely military. In
the Highlands especially, he was employed in quenching the smoking embers of rebellion, and
in re-organizing the country after the anarchy of civil war. Disarming had to be done, and
suppression of the Highland costume, which now marks the Queen's favourite regiment, but then
marked a rebel. This is bad, as well as unworthy, work for soldiers, who have not the trained
self-command which belongs to a good police, and for which the Irish Constabulary are as remarkable
as they are for courage and vigour. Even Wolfe's sentiments contracted a tinge of cruelty from
his occupation. In one of his subsequent letters he avows a design which would have led to
the massacre of a whole clan. "Would you believe that I am so bloody?" We do not believe that
he was so bloody, and are confident that the design, if it was ever really formed, would not
have been carried into effect. But the passage is the most painful one in his letters. The
net result of his military administration, however, was that the people at Inverness were willing
to celebrate the Duke of Cumberland's birthday, though they were not willing to comply with
the insolent demand of Colonel Lord Bury, who had come down to take the command for a short
time, that they should celebrate it on the anniversary of Culloden. It is a highly probable
tradition that the formation of Highland regiments was suggested by Wolfe.

In a passage which we have quoted Wolfe glances at the awkward and perilous position in which
a young commander was placed in having to control the moral habits of officers his equals in
age, and to rebuke the passions which mutinied in his own blood. He could hardly be expected
to keep himself immaculate. But he is always struggling to do right and repentant when he does
wrong. "We use a very dangerous freedom and looseness of speech among ourselves; this by degrees
makes wickedness and debauchery less odious than it should be, if not familiar, and sets truth,
religion, and virtue at a great distance. I hear things every day said that would shock your
ears, and often say things myself that are not fit to be repeated, perhaps without any ill
intention, but merely by the force of custom. The best that can be offered in our defence is
that some of us see the evil and wish to avoid it." Among the very early letters there is one
to his brother about "pretty mantua makers," etc, but it is evidently nothing but a nominal
deference to the military immorality of the age. Once when on a short visit to London, and
away from the restraining responsibilities of his command, Wolfe, according to his own account,
lapsed into debauchery. "In that short time I committed more imprudent acts than in all my
life before I lived in the idlest, [most] dissolute, abandoned manner that could be conceived,
and that not out of vice, which is the most extraordinary part of it. I have escaped at length
and am once more master of my reason, and hereafter it shall rule my conduct; at least I hope
so." Perhaps the lapse may have been worse by contrast than in itself. The intensity of pure
affection which pervades all Wolfe's letters is sufficient proof that he had never abandoned
himself to sensuality to an extent sufficient to corrupt his heart. The age was profoundly
sceptical, and if the scepticism had not spread to the army the scoffing had. Wolfe more than
once talks lightly of going to church as a polite form; but he appears always to have a practical
belief in God.

It is worthy of remark that a plunge into London dissipation follows very close upon the disappointment
of an honourable passion. Wolfe had a certain turn of mind which favoured matrimony "prodigiously,"
and he had fallen very much in love with Miss Lawson, Maid of Honour to the Princess of Wales.
But the old General and Mrs. Wolfe opposed the match --apparently on pecuniary grounds. "They
have their eye upon one of L30,000." Miss Lawson had only L12,000. Parents had more authority
then than they have now, Wolfe was exceedingly dutiful, and he allowed the old people, on whom,
from the insufficiency of his pay, he was still partly dependent, to break off the affair.
Such at least seems to have been the history of its termination. The way in which Wolfe records
the catastrophe, it must be owned, is not very romantic. "This last disappointment in love
has changed my natural disposition to such a degree that I believe it is now possible that
I might prevail upon myself not to refuse twenty or thirty thousand pounds, if properly offered.
Rage and despair do not commonly produce such reasonable effects; nor are they the instruments
to make a man's fortune by but in particular cases." It was long, however, before he could
think of Miss Lawson without a pang, and the sight of her portrait, he tells us, takes away
his appetite for some days.

At seven and twenty Wolfe left Scotland, having already to seven years' experience of warfare
added five years' experience of difficult command. He is now able to move about a little and
open his mind, which has been long cramped by confinement in Highland quarters. He visits an
old uncle in Ireland, and, as one of the victors of Culloden, views with special interest that
field of the Boyne, where in the last generation Liberty and Progress had triumphed over the
House of Stuart. "I had more satisfaction in looking at this spot than in all the variety that
I have met with; and perhaps there is not another piece of ground in the world that I could
take so much pleasure to observe." Then, though with difficulty, he obtained the leave of the
pipe-clay Duke to go to Paris. There he saw the hollow grandeur of the decaying monarchy and
the immoral glories of Pompadour. "I was yesterday at Versailles, a cold spectator of what
we commonly call splendour and magnificence. A multitude of men and women were assembled to
bow and pay their compliments in the most submissive manner to a creature of their own species."
He went into the great world, to which he gains admission with an ease which shows that he
has a good position, and tries to make up his leeway in the graces by learning to fence, dance,
and ride. He wishes to extend his tour and see the European armies; but the Duke inexorably
calls him back to pipe-clay. It is proposed to him that he should undertake the tutorship of
the young Duke of Richmond on a military tour through the Low Countries. But he declines the
offer. "I don't think myself quite equal to the task, and as for the pension that might follow,
it is very certain that it would not become me to accept it. I can't take money from any one
but the King, my master, or from some of his blood."

Back, therefore, to England and two years more of garrison duty there. Quartered in the high-perched
keep of Dover where "the winds rattle pretty loud" and cut off from the world without, as he
says, by the absence of newspapers or coffee houses, he employs the tedious hours in reading
while his officers waste them in piquet. The ladies in the town below complain through Miss
Brett to Mrs. Wolfe of the unsociality of the garrison. "Tell Nannie Brett's ladies," Wolfe
replies, "that if they lived as loftily and as much in the clouds as we do, their appetites
for dancing or anything else would not be so keen. If we dress, the wind disorders our curls;
if we walk, we are in danger of our legs; if we ride, of our necks." Afterwards, however, he
takes to dancing to please the ladies and apparently grows fond of it.

Among the High Tories of Devonshire he has to do a little more of the work of pacification
in which he had been employed in the Highlands. "We are upon such terms with the people in
general that I have been forced to put on all my address, and employ my best skill to conciliate
matters. It begins to work a little favourably, but not certainly, because the perverseness
of these folks, built upon their disaffection, makes the task very difficult. We had a little
ball last night, to celebrate His Majesty's birthday--purely military; that is the men were
all officers except one. The female branches of the Tory families came readily enough, but
not one man would accept the invitation because it was the King's birthday. If it had not fallen
in my way to see such an instance of folly I should not readily be brought to conceive it."
He has once more to sully a soldier's sword by undertaking police duty against the poor Gloucestershire
weavers, who are on strike, and, as he judges, not without good cause. "This expedition carries
me a little out of my road and a little in the dirt.... I hope it will turn out a good recruiting
party, for the people are so oppressed, so poor and so wretched, that they will perhaps hazard
a knock on the pate for bread and clothes and turn soldiers through sheer necessity."

Chatham and glory are now at hand; and the hero is ready for the hour-- Sed mors atra caput
nigra, circumvolat umbra. "Folks are surprised to see the meagre, decaying, consumptive figure
of the son, when the father and mother preserve such good looks; and people are not easily
persuaded that I am one of the family. The campaigns of 1743, '4, '5, '6, and '7 stripped me
of my bloom, and the winters in Scotland and at Dover have brought me almost to old age and
infirmity, and this without any remarkable intemperance. A few years more or less are of very
little consequence to the common run of men, and therefore I need not lament that I am perhaps
somewhat nearer my end than others of my time. I think and write upon these points without
being at all moved. It is not the vapours, but a desire I have to be familiar with those ideas
which frighten and terrify the half of mankind that makes me speak upon the subject of my dissolution."

The biographer aptly compares Wolfe to Nelson. Both were frail in body, aspiring in soul, sensitive,
liable to fits of despondency, sustained against all weaknesses by an ardent zeal for the public
service, and gifted with the same quick eye and the same intuitive powers of command. But it
is also a just remark that there was more in Nelson of the love of glory, more in Wolfe of
the love of duty. I hope I shall have resolution and firmness enough to meet every appearance
of danger without great concern, and not be over solicitous about the event." However, it is
not our part to choose but to obey."

All know that the way in which Mr. Pitt pleased to dispose of the "slight carcass" was by sending
it to Rochefort, Louisburg, Quebec. Now, God be praised, I will die in peace."

FALKLAND AND THE PURITANS

[Footnote: Published in the Contemporary Review as a reply to Mr. Matthew Arnold's Essay on
Falkland.]

We have the most unfeigned respect for the memory of Falkland. Carlyle's sneer at him has always
seemed to us about the most painful thing in the writings of Carlyle. Our knowledge of his
public life is meagre, and is derived mainly from a writer under whose personal influence he
acted, who is specially responsible for the most questionable step that he took, and on whose
veracity, with regard to this portion of the history not much reliance can be placed. But we
cannot doubt his title to our admiration and our love. Of his character as a friend, as a host,
and as the centre of a literary circle, we have a picture almost peerless in social history.
He seems to have presented in a very attractive form the combination--rare now, though not
rare in that age, especially among the great Puritan chiefs--of practical activity and military
valour with high culture and a serious interest in great questions. Of his fine feelings as
a man of honour we have more than one proof. We have proof equally strong of his self-sacrificing
devotion to his country; though in this he stood not alone: with his blood on the field of
Newbury mingled that of many an English yeoman, whose cheeks were as wet when he left his Puritan
home to die for the religion and liberties of England as were those of Lord Falkland when he
left the "lime-trees and violets" of Great Tew.

Of political moderation, if it means merely steering a middle course between two extremes,
the praise is cheap, and would be shared by Falkland with many weak and with many dishonest
men. It may, without disparagement, be remarked of him that his rank as a nobleman was almost
sufficient in itself, without any special soundness of understanding or calmness of temperament,
to prevent him from throwing himself headlong either into an absolutist reaction which was
identified with the ascendency of upstart favourites, and contemners of the old nobility, or
into a popular revolution which soon disclosed its tendency to come into collision with the
privileged order, and which ended its parricidal career by leaving England, during some of
the most glorious years of her history, destitute of a House of Lords. But as an adherent,
and no doubt a deliberate adherent, of Constitutional Monarchy, Falkland was in that which
in the upshot proved to be the right line of English progress, though by no means the right
line of progress for the whole world. The Commonwealth is the ideal of America, where it is
practicable, and it alone. Constitutional Monarchy, as Falkland rightly judged, was the highest
attainable ideal for England, at any rate in that day. Of attaining that ideal, of doing anything
considerable towards its attainment, or towards its defence against the powers of absolutist
reaction whose triumph would have rendered its attainment for ever impossible, he was no more
capable than he was of performing the labours of Hercules.

In this he bears some resemblance to a man of incomparably greater intellect than his. The
fame of Bacon as a philosopher has eclipsed his importance as a politician. But his ideal of
an enlightened monarchy, invested with plenary power, but always using its power in conformity
with law, and having a Verulam at its right hand, not only is grand and worthy of the majestic
intelligence from which it sprang, but is entitled to a good deal of sympathy, when we consider
how wanting in enlightenment, how rough, how uncertain, how provoking to a trained and instructed
statesman the action of parliaments composed of country gentlemen and meeting at long intervals,
in an age when there were no political newspapers or other general organs of political information,
could not fail sometimes to be. But Bacon, hampered by enfeebling selfishness, as Falkland
was by more generous defects, was incapable of taking a single step toward the realization
of his august vision, and the result was, a miserable fall from the ethereal height to the
feet of a Somerset and a Buckingham.

As a theologian, Falkland appears to have been a Chillingworth on a very small scale. It does
not seem to us that Principal Tulloch, in his interesting chapter on him, succeeds in putting
him higher. But he shared, with Chillingworth and Hales, the spirit of liberality and toleration,
for which both were nobly conspicuous, though Hales did not show himself a very uncompromising
champion of his principles when he accepted preferment from the hands of their arch-enemy,
Laud. The learned men and religious philosophers whom Falkland gathered round him at Tew, were
among the best and foremost thinkers of their age: the beauty of the group is marred, perhaps,
only by the sinister intrusion of Sheldon.

Mr. Matthew Arnold, in the very graceful sketch of Falkland's life published by him in aid
of the Falkland Memorial, has endowed his favourite character with gifts far rarer and more
memorable than those of which we have spoken; with an extraordinary largeness and lucidity
of mind, with almost divine superiority to party narrowness and bias, with conceptions anticipative
of the most advanced philosophy of modern times. He quotes the Dean of Westminster as affirming
that "Falkland is the founder, or nearly the founder, of the best and most enlightening tendencies
of the Church of England"--a statement which breeds reflection as to the character of the Church
of England during the previous century, in the course of which its creed and liturgy were formed.
The evidence of these transactions lies wide; much of it is still in the British Museum; and
it may be possible to produce something sufficient to sustain Falkland on the pinnacle on which
Mr. Arnold and the Dean of Westminster have placed him. But we cannot help surmising that he
has in some measure undergone the process which, in an age prolific in historic fancies as
well as pre-eminent in historic research, has been undergone by almost every character in history--that
of being transmuted by a loving biographer, and converted into a sort of ventriloquial apparatus
through which the biographer preaches to the present from the pulpit of the past. The philosophy
ascribed to Falkland is, we suspect, partly that of a teacher who was then in the womb of time.
We should not be extreme to mark this, if the praise of Falkland had not been turned to the
dispraise and even to the vilification of men who are at least as much entitled to reverent
treatment at the hands of Englishmen as he is, and at the same time of a large body of English
citizens at the present day, who are the objects, we venture to think, of a somewhat fanciful
and somewhat unmeasured antipathy. Those who subscribe to the Falkland Testimonial are collectively
set down by Mr. Arnold as the "amiable"--those who do not subscribe as the "unamiable." Few,
we trust, would be so careful of their money and so careless of their reputation for moral
beauty as to refuse to pay a guinea for a certificate of amiability countersigned by Mr. Matthew
Arnold. Yet even the amiable might hesitate to take part in erecting a monument to the honour
of Falkland, if it was at the same time to be a monument to the dishonour, of Luther, Gustavus,
Walsingham, Sir John Eliot, Pym, Hampden, Cromwell, Vane, and Milton. As to the Nonconformists,
their contributions are probably not desired: otherwise, accustomed to not very courteous treatment
though they are, it would still be imprudent to warn them that their own "hideousness" was
to be carved in the same marble with the beauty of Lord Falkland.

On Luther, Hampden, and Cromwell, Mr. Arnold expressly bestows the name of "Philistine," and
if he bestows it on these he can hardly abstain from bestowing it on the rest of those we have
named. Milton, at all events, has identified himself with Cromwell as thoroughly as one man
ever identified himself with another, and whatever aspersion is cast on "Worcester's laureate
wreath" must fall equally on the intermingling bays. We may say this without pretending to
know what the exact meaning of "Philistine" now is. Originally, no doubt, it pointed to some
specific defect on the part of those with regard to whom it was used, and possibly also on
the part of those who used it. But with the fate which usually attends the cant phrase of a
clique, it seems to be degenerating, by lavish application, into something which irritates
without conveying any definite instruction. As Luther did not live under the same conditions
as Heinrich Heine, perfect ethical identity was hardly to be expected. "Simpleton" and "savage"
have the advantage of being intelligible to all, and when introduced into discussion with grace,
perhaps they may be urbane.

It is useless to attempt, without authentic materials, to fill in the faint outline of an historic
figure. But judging from such indications as we have, we should be inclined to say that Falkland,
instead of being a man of extraordinarily serene and well-balanced mind, was rather excitable
and impulsive. His tones and gestures are vehement; where another man would be content to protest
against what he thought an undeserved act of homage by simply keeping his hat on, Falkland
rams his down upon his head with both his hands. He goes most ardently with the popular party
through the early stages of the revolution; then he somewhat abruptly breaks away from it,
disgusted with its defects, though they certainly did not exceed those of other parties under
the same circumstances, and feeling in himself no power to control it and keep it in the right
path. He is under the influence of others, first of Hampden and then of Hyde, to an extent
hardly compatible with the possession of a mind of first-rate power. When he is taxed with
inconsistency for going round upon the Bill for removing the Bishops from Parliament, his plea
is that at the time when he voted for the Bill "he had been persuaded by that worthy gentleman
(Hampden) to believe many things which he had since found to be untrue, and therefore he had
changed his opinion in many particulars as well to things as persons." Hampden himself would
hardly have been led by anybody's persuasions on the great question of the day. Clarendon tells
us that his friend, from his experience of the Short Parliament, "contracted such a reverence
for Parliaments that he thought it really impossible they could ever produce mischief or inconvenience
to the kingdom." We always regard with some suspicion Clarendon's artful touches, otherwise
we should say that there is a pretty brusque change from this unbounded reverence for the Short
Parliament to an appearance in arms against its successor, especially as the leader and soul
of both Parliaments was Pym.

In the prosecution of Strafford, Falkland showed such ardour that, as Clarendon intimates,
those who knew him not ascribed his behaviour to personal resentment. His lips formulated the
very doctrine so fatal to the great accused, that a number of acts severally not amounting
to high treason might cumulatively support the charge. "How many haires' breadths makes a tall
man and how many makes a little man, noe man can well say, yet we know a tall man when we see
him from a low man; soe 'tis in this,--how many illegal acts make a treason is not certainly
well known, but we well know it when we see." Mr. Arnold says that "alone amongst his party
Falkland raised his voice against pressing forward Strafford's impeachment with unfair or vindictive
haste." That is to say, when Pym proposed to the House, sitting with closed doors, at once
to carry up the impeachment to the Lords and demand the arrest of Strafford without delay,
Falkland, moved by his great, and, in all ordinary cases, laudable respect for regularity of
proceeding, proposed first to have the charges formally drawn up by a committee. Falkland's
proposal was almost fatuous; it proves that the grand difference between him and Pym was that
Pym was a great man of action and that he was not. It would have been about as rational to
suggest that the lighted match should not be taken out of the hand of Guy Fawkes till a committee
had formally reported on the probable effects of gunpowder if ignited in large quantities beneath
the chamber in which the Parliament was sitting. Strafford would not have respected forms in
the midst of what he must have well known was a revolution. He would probably have struck at
the Commons if they had not struck at him; certainly he would have placed himself beyond their
reach; and the promptness of Pym's decision saved the party and the country. No practical injustice
was done by wresting the sword out of Strafford's hand and putting him in safe keeping till
the charges could be drawn up in form, as they immediately were. Falkland himself in proposing
a committee avowed his conviction that the grounds for the impeachment were perfectly sufficient.
His name does not appear among the Straffordians; and had he opposed the Bill of Attainder
it seems morally certain that Clarendon would have told us so. The strength of this presumption
is not impaired by any vague words of Baxter coupling the name of Falkland with that of Digby
as a seceder from the party on the occasion of the Bill. Had Falkland voted with Digby, his
name would have appeared in the same list. That he felt qualms and wavered at the last is very
likely; but it is almost certain that he voted for the Bill. There is some reason for believing
that he took the sterner, though probably more constitutional, line, on the question of allowing
the accused to be heard by counsel. But the evidence is meagre and doubtful; and the difficulty
of reading it aright has been increased by the discovery that Pym and Hampden themselves were
against proceeding by Bill, and in favour of demanding judgment on the impeachment. It seems
certain, however, that Falkland pleaded against extending the consequences of the Act of Attainder
to Strafford's children, and in this he showed himself a true gentleman.

Again, in the case of Laud, Mr. Arnold wishes to draw a strong line between the conduct of
his favourite and that of the savage "Puritans." He says that Falkland "refused to concur in
Laud's impeachment." If he did, we must say he acted very inconsistently, for in his speech
in favour of the Bishops' Bill he violently denounced Laud as a participator in Strafford's
treason:--

"We shall find both of them to have kindled and blown the common fire of both nations, to have
both sent and maintained that book (of Canons) of which the author, no doubt, hath long since
wished with Nero, Utinam nescissem literas! and of which more than one kingdom hath cause to
wish that when he wrote that he had rather burned a library, though of the value of Ptolemy's.
We shall find them to have been the first and principal cause of the breach, I will not say
of, but since, the pacification of Berwick. We shall find them to have been the almost sole
abettors of my Lord Strafford, whilst he was practising upon another kingdom that manner of
government which he intended to settle in this; where he committed so many mighty and so manifest
enormities and oppressions as the like have not been committed by any governor in any government
since Verras left Sicily; and after they had called him over from being Deputy of Ireland to
be in a manner Deputy of England (all things here being goverend by a junctillo and the junctillo
goverend by him) to have assisted him in the giving such counsels and the pursuing such courses,
as it is a hard and measuring cost whether they were more unwise, more unjust, or more unfortunate,
and which had infallibly been our destruction if by the grace of God their share had not been
a small in the subtilty of serpents as in the innocency of doves."

We are not aware, however, of the existence of any positive proof that Falkland did "refuse
to concur" in the impeachment of Laud. There is nothing, we believe, but the general statement
of Clarendon that his friend regarded with horror the storm gathering against the archbishop,
which the words of Falkland himself, just quoted, seem sufficient to disprove. Mr. Arnold tells
us that "Falkland disliked Laud; he had a natural antipathy to his heat, fussiness, and arbitrary
temper." He had an antipathy to a good deal more in Laud than this, and expressed his dislike
in language which showed that he was himself not deficient in heat when his religious feelings
were aroused. He accused Laud and the ecclesiastics of his party of having "destroyed unity
under pretence of uniformity;" of having "brought in Superstition and Scandal under the titles
of Reverence and Decency;" of having "defiled the Church by adorning the churches," of having
"destroyed as much of the Gospel as they could without themselves being destroyed by the law."
He compared them to the hen in AEsop, fed too fat to lay eggs, and to dogs in the manger, who
would neither preach nor let others preach. He charged them with checking instruction in order
to introduce that religion which accounts ignorance the mother of devotion. He endorsed the
common belief that one of them was a Papist at heart, and that only regard for his salary prevented
him from going over to Rome. All this uttered to a Parliament in such a mood would hardly be
in favour of gentle dealing with the archbishop. But Pym and Hampden, as Clarendon himself
admits, never intended to proceed to extremities against the old man; they were satisfied with
having put him in safe keeping and removed him from the councils of the King. When they were
gone, the Presbyterians, to whom the leadership of the Revolution then passed, took up the
impeachment and brought Laud to the block.

The parts were distributed among the leaders. To Falkland was entrusted the prosecution of
the Lord Keeper Finch; and this part he performed in a style which thoroughly identifies him
with the other leaders, and with the general spirit of the movement at this stage of the Revolution.
No man, so far as we can see, did more to set the stone rolling; it was not likely that, with
his slender force, he would be able to stop it at once in mid career.

In contrasting Falkland's line of conduct with that of the "Puritans," on the question of the
Bishops' Bill and of the impeachment of Laud, Mr. Arnold indicates his impression that all
Puritans were on principle enemies, and as a matter of course fanatical enemies, of Episcopacy.
But he will find that at this time many Puritans were Low Church Episcopalians, wishing only
to moderate the pretensions and curb the authority of the Bishops. Episcopacy is not one of
the grievances protested against in the Millenary Petition Sir John Eliot appears to have been
as strong an Erastian as Mr. Arnold could desire.

It seems to us hardly possible to draw a sharp line of distinction in any respect, except that
of practical ability, between Falkland and Hampden. Falkland failed to understand, while Hampden
understood, the character of the King and the full peril of the situation; that was the real
difference between the two men. The political and ecclesiastical ideal of both in all probability
was pretty much the same. Mr. Arnold chooses to describe Hampden as "seeking the Lord about
militia or ship- money," and he undertakes to represent Jesus as "whispering to him with benign
disdain." Sceptics, to disprove the objective reality of the Deity, allege that every man makes
God in his own image. They might perhaps find an indirect confirmation of their remark in the
numerous lives and portraitures of Christ which have appeared of late years, each entirely
different from the rest, and each stamped clearly enough with the impress of an individual
mind. But where has Hampden spoken of himself as "seeking the Lord about militia or ship-money?"
He appears to have been a highly-educated man of the world. In one of his few remaining letters
there are recommendations to a friend, who had consulted him about the education of his sons,
which seem to blend regard for religion with enlightened liberality of view. If he prayed for
support and guidance in his undertakings, surely he did no more than Mr. Arnold himself practically
recommends people to do when he urges them to join the Established Church of England. Even
should Mr. Arnold light on an authentic instance of Scripture phraseology used by Hampden,
or any other Puritan chief, in a way which would now be against good taste, his critical and
historical sense will readily make allowance for the difference between the present time and
the time when the Bible was a newly-recovered book, and when its language, on the believer's
lips and to the believer's ears, was still fresh as the dew of the morning.

It would be even more difficult to separate Falkland's general character from that of Pym,
of whose existence Mr. Arnold has shown himself conscious by once mentioning his name. The
political philosophy of Pym's speeches is most distinctly constitutional, and we do not see
that in point of breadth or dignity they leave much to be desired, while they unquestionably
express, in the fullest manner, the mind of a leader of the Puritan party.

Whoever contrasts Falkland with the Puritans will have to encounter the somewhat untoward fact
that in his speech against the High Church Bishops, Falkland, if he does not actually call
himself a Puritan, twice identifies the Puritan cause with his own. Among the bad objects which
he accuses the clergy of advocating in their sermons is "the demolishing of Puritanism and
propriety" Again he cries--

"Alas! they whose ancestors in the darkest times excommunicated the breakers of Magna Charta
do now by themselves, and their adherents, both write, preach, plot, and act against it, by
encouraging Dr. Beale, by preferring Dr. Mainwaring, appearing forward for monopolies and ship-
money, and if any were slow and backward to comply, blasting both them and their preferment
with the utmost expression of their hatred--the title of Puritans."

These words may help to make Mr. Arnold aware, when he mows down the Puritan party with some
trenchant epithet, how wide the sweep of his scythe is, and the same thing will be still more
distinctively brought before him by a perusal (if he has not already perused it) of the chapter
on the subject in Mr. Sandford's "Studies and Illustrations of the Great Rebellion." It can
hardly be necessary to remind him, or any one else, of the portrait of one who was a most undoubted
Puritan, drawn by Lucy Hutchinson. If this portrait betrays the hand of a wife, Clarendon's
portrait of Falkland betrays the hand of a friend, and even a beloved husband is not more likely
to be the object of exaggerated, though sincere praise, than the social head and the habitual
host of a circle of literary men. The Spencerian school of sentiment seems to Mr. Arnold very
lovely compared with the men of the New Model Army and their ways. In the general of the New
Model Army, Sir Thomas Fairfax, he has a distinct, and we venture to say very worthy, pupil
of that school.

Over the most questionable as well as the most momentous passage in Falkland's public life,
his admirer passes with a graceful literary movement. Falkland was sworn in as a Privy Councillor
three days before, and as Secretary of State, four days after, the attempt of the King to seize
the Five Members. He was thus, in outward appearance at least, brought into calamitous connection
with an act which, as Clarendon sees, was the signal for civil war. Clarendon vehemently disclaims
for himself and his two friends any knowledge of the King's design. So far as the more violent
part of the proceeding is concerned, we can easily believe him; a woman mad with vindictive
arrogance inspired it, and nobody except a madman would have been privy to it; but it is not
so easy to believe him with regard to the impeachment, which was in fact an attempt to take
the lives of the King's enemies by arraigning them before a political tribunal, hostile to
them and favourable to their accuser, instead of bringing them to a fair and legal trial before
a jury. By accepting the Secretaryship, Falkland at all events assumed a certain measure of
responsibility after the fact for a proceeding which, we repeat, rendered civil war inevitable,
because it must have convinced the popular leaders that to put faith in Charles with such councillors
as he had about him would be insanity; and that if they allowed Parliament to rise and the
Kong to resume the power of the sword, not only would all their work of reform be undone, but
the fate of Sir John Eliot would be theirs. Clarendon owns that Hampden's carriage from that
day was changed, implying that up to that day it had been temperate; and the insinuation that,
beneath the cloak of apparent moderation, Hampden had been secretly breathing counsels of violence
into the minds of others deserves no attention, when it comes from a hostile source. Of the
purity of Falkland's motives we entertain not the shadow of a doubt; but we venture to think
that it is very questionable whether he did right, and this not only on grounds of technical
constitutionalism, which in the present day would render imperative the retirement of a Minister
whose advice had been so flagrantly disregarded, but on grounds of the most broadly practical
kind. He forfeited for ever, not only any influence which he might have retained over the popular
leaders, and any access which he might have had to them in their more pacific mood, but probably
all real control over the King. Charles was the very last man whom you could afford to allow
in the slightest degree to tamper with your honour. It is surely conceivable that the recollection
of an unfortunate step, and the sense of a false position, may have mingled with the sorrow
caused by the public calamities in the melancholy which drove Falkland to cast away his life.

In the Civil War Falkland was always "ingeminating Peace, Peace". Our hearts are with him,
but it was of no use. It is an unhappy part of civil wars that there can be no real peace till
one party has succumbed: compromise only leads to a renewal of the conflict. The great God,
who is the searcher of my heart, knows with what reluctance I go upon this service, and with
what perfect hatred I look upon a war without an enemy.

A man in this frame of mind, we submit, was likely to get to the end of a civil war more speedily
than a man in the mood, amiable as it was, of Falkland.

Perhaps, after all, the failure, the inevitable failure of Falkland's passionate pleadings
for peace may have saved him from a worse doom than death on the field even of civil war. In
the case of the Five Members, the King had shown how little regard he had, at least how little
regard the mistress of his councils had, for the honour of his advisers. The pair might have
used Falkland to lure by the pledge of his high character the leaders of the Parliament into
the acceptance of a treaty? which the King, with his notions of divine right, and the Queen
with her passionate love of absolute power, would, there can be little doubt, have violated
as soon as the army of the Parliament had been disbanded, and the power of the sword had returned
into the King's hands. Falkland might have even seen the scaffold erected, through the prostitution
of his own honour, for the men whose ardent associate he had been in the overthrow of government
by prerogative and in the impeachment of Strafford.

Flinging epithets at Cromwell is a very harmless indulgence of sentiment. His memory has passed
unscathed even through the burning eloquence which, from the pulpit of the Restoration, denounced
him as "wearing a bad hat, and that not paid for." Since research has placed him before us
as he really was, the opinion has been gaining ground that he was about the greatest human
force ever directed to a moral purpose; and in that sense, about the greatest man, take him
all in all, that ever trod the scene of history. If his entire devotion to his cause, his valour,
his magnanimity, his clemency, his fidelity to the public service, his domestic excellence
and tenderness are not "conduct," all we can say is, so much the worse for "conduct." The type
to which his character belonged, in common with the whole series of historic types, had in
it something that was special and transitory, combined with much that, so far as we see, was
universal and will endure for ever. It is in failing to note the special and transitory element,
and the limitations which it imposed on the hero's greatness, that Carlyle's noble biography
runs into poetry, and departs from historic truth. To supply this defect is the proper work
of rational criticism; but the criticism which begins with "Philistine" is not likely to be
very rational.

The objection urged by Bolingbroke against Cromwell's foreign policy, on the ground that to
unite with France, which was gaining strength, against Spain, which was beginning to decline,
was not the way to maintain the balance of power in Europe, is once more reproduced as though
it had not been often brought forward and answered. Cromwell was not bound to trouble his head
about such a figment of a special diplomacy as the balance of power any more than Shakespeare
was bound to trouble his head about Voltaire's rules for the drama. He was the chief and the
defender of Protestantism, and as such he was naturally led to ally himself with France, which
was comparatively liberal, against Spain, which was the great organ of the Catholic reaction.
An alliance with Spain was a thing impossible for a Puritan. Looking to the narrower interest
of England, much more was to be gained by a war with Spain than by a war with France, because
by a war with Spain an entrance was forced for English enterprise through the barriers which
Spanish monopoly had raised against commercial enterprise in America. The security of England
appears, in Cromwell's judgment, to have depended on her intrinsic strength, which no one can
doubt that, under extraordinary disadvantages, he immensely increased, rather than on the maintenance
of a European equilibrium which, as the number of the powers increased, became palpably impracticable.
It may be added, that the incipient decline of the double-headed House of Austria, if it is
visible to our eyes as we trace back the course of events, can hardly have been visible to
any eye at that time, and, what is still more to the purpose, that the dangerous ascendency
of Louis XIV. resulted in great measure from the betrayal of England by Charles II., and would
have been impossible had, we will not say a second Cromwell, but a Protestant or patriotic
monarch, sat on the Protector's throne.

Bolingbroke suggests, and Mr. Arnold embraces the suggestion, that Charles I., by making war
on France, showed himself more sagacious with regard to foreign policy than Cromwell. But Mr.
Arnold, in recommending Bolingbroke's philosophy to a generation which he thinks has too much
neglected it, has discreetly warned us to let his history alone. Charles I., or rather Buckingham,
in whose hands Charles was a puppet, made war on Spain, though in the most incapable manner,
and with a most ignominious result: he at one time lent the French Government English ships
to be used against the Protestants of Rochelle, whose resistance, apart from the religious
question, was the one great obstacle to the concentration of the French power; and though he
subsequently quarrelled with France, few will believe--assuredly Clarendon did not believe--that
among the motives for the change, policy of any kind predominated over the passions and the
vanity of the favourite. That Cromwell would have lent a steady and effective support to the
Protestants, and thus have prevented the concentration of the French power, is as certain as
any unfulfilled contingency can be.

Mr. Arnold is evidently anxious to bring Bolingbroke into fashion. "Hear Bolingbroke upon the
success of Puritanism." Hear Lovelace on Dr. Johnson; one critic would be about as edifying
as the other. Bolingbroke, a sceptical writer and a scoffer at Anglican doctrine, to say nothing
about his morals, allied himself for party purposes with the fanatical clergy of the Anglican
Establishment, well represented by Sacheverel, and, to gratify his allies, passed as Minister
persecuting laws, about the last of the series, against Nonconformists. This, perhaps, is a
proof in a certain way, of philosophic largeness of view. But if Bolingbroke is to be commended
to ingenuous youth as a guide superior to party narrowness or bias, it may be well to remember
the passage of his letter to Sir William Wyndham, in which he very frankly describes his own
aims, and those of his confederates on their accession to office, admitting that "the principal
spring of their actions was to have the government of the State in their hands, and that their
principal views were the conservation of this power, great employments to themselves, and great
opportunities of rewarding those who had helped to raise them, and of hurting those who stood
in opposition to them;" though he has the grace to add that with these considerations of party
and private interest were intermingled some which had for their object the public good. In
another place he avows that he and his party designed "to fill the employments of the kingdom
down to the meanest with Tories," by which they would have anticipated, and, indeed, by anticipation
outdone, the vilest and most noxious proceeding of the coarsest demagogue who ever climbed
to power on the shoulders of faction in the United States. It may be instructive to compare
with this the principles upon which public employments were distributed by Cromwell.

It would be out of place to discuss the whole question of the Protector's administration by
way of reply to a passing thrust of antipathy. But when judgment is pronounced on his external
policy, his critics ought not to leave out of consideration the Union of Scotland and Ireland
with England, successfully accomplished by him, repealed by the Restoration, and, like not
a few of his other measures, revived and ratified by posterity, after a delay fraught with
calamitous consequences in both cases, and which, in the case of Ireland, may perhaps even
yet prove fatal.

We cannot help remarking, however, that the ecclesiastical policy of the Protectorate was one
which it would be most inconsistent on the part of Mr. Arnold and those who hold the same view
with him to decry. It was a national church (to prevent the hasty abolition of which, seems
to have been Cromwell's main reason for dissolving the Barebones Parliament) with the largest
possible measure of comprehension. To us the weak points of such a policy appear manifest enough,
but by Mr. Arnold and those of his way of thinking it ought, if we mistake not, to be respected
as an anticipation of their own deal.

Of one great and irretrievable error Cromwell was guilty--he died before his hour. That his
government was taking root is clear from the bearing of Mazarin and Don Lewis De Haro, sufficiently
cool judges, towards the Stuart Pretender. The Restoration was a reaction not against the Protectorate
but against the military anarchy which ensued. Had Cromwell lived ten years longer, or had
his marshals been true to his successor, to his cause, and to their own fortunes, there would
have been an end of the struggle against Stuart prerogative, the spirit of Laud would have
been laid for ever; the temporal power of ecclesiastics would have troubled no more; the Union
with Scotland and Ireland would have remained unbroken; and the genuine representation of the
people embodied in the Instrument of Government would have continued to exist, in the place
of rotten boroughs, the sources of oligarchy and corruption, of class government and class
wars. Let us philosophize about general causes as much as we will, untoward accidents occur:
the loss of Pym and Hampden in the early part of the Revolution, and that of Cromwell at its
close, may be fairly reckoned as accidents, and they were untoward in the highest degree.

No doubt, while Falkland fits perfectly into the line of English progress and takes his place
with obvious propriety among the Saints of Constitutionalism in the vestibule of the House
of Commons, while even Hampden finds admission as the opponent of ship-money, the kind veil
of oblivion being drawn over the part he played as a leader in the Revolution, Cromwell, though
his hold over the hearts of the English people is growing all the time, remains in an uncovenanted
condition. The problem of his statue is still, and, so far as England is concerned, seems likely
long to be, unsolved. Put him high or low, in the line of kings or out of it, he is hopelessly
incongruous, incommensurable, and out of place. He is in fact the man of the New World; his
institutions in the main embody the organic principles of New World society: at Washington,
not at Westminster should be his statue.

What Puritanism did for England, and what credit is due to it as an element of English character,
are questions which cannot be settled by mere assertion, on our side at least. In its highest
development, and at the period of its greatest men, it was militant, and everything militant
is sure to bear evil traces of the battle. For that reason Christianity has always been in
favour of peace and goodwill; let the Regius Professor of Theology at Oxford, in his Christian
philosophy of war, be as ingenious and as admirable as he may. But sometimes it is necessary
to accept the arbitrament of the sword. It was necessary at Marathon, on the plain of Tours,
on the waters which bore the Armada, at Lutzen, at Marston, at Leipsic, at Gettysburg. Darius,
the Moors, Philip II., Wallenstein, Prince Rupert, Bonaparte, the Slave-owners, did not offer
you the opportunity which you would so gladly have embraced, of a tranquil and amicable discussion
among lime-trees and violets. On each occasion the cause of human progress drew along with
it plenty of mud and slime, nevertheless it was the cause of human progress. On each occasion
the wrong side no doubt had its Falklands, nevertheless it was the wrong side.

In the beginning of the seventeenth century the Reformation was brought to the verge of destruction.
When Wallenstein sat down before Stralsund everything was gone but England, Holland, Sweden,
and some cantons of Switzerland. In England the stream of reaction was running strong; Holland
could not have stood by herself; Sweden was nothing as a power, though it turned out that she
had a man. Fortunately the Lambeth Popedom and the Royal Supremacy prevented the English division
of the army of Reaction from getting into line with the other divisions and compelled it to
accept decisive battle on a separate field against the most formidable soldiers of the Reformation.
These soldiers saved Protestantism, which was their first object, and they saved English liberty
into the bargain. We who have come after can stand by the battlefield, pouncet-box in hand,
and sniff and sneer as much as we will.

Great Tew was an anticipation, for ever beautiful and memorable, of the time when all swords
shall be sheathed, and the world shall have entered into final peace. But in its philosophy
there were, as the world then was, two defects; it did not reach the people, and it was incapable
of protecting its own existence. Laud himself did not care to crush it; he was an ecclesiastical
despot rather than a theological bigot; he had a genuine respect for learned men; he preferred
winning them by gracious words and preferment to coercing them with the pillory and the shears.
But had Laud's system prevailed, there would soon have been an end of the philosophy of Great
Tew. Mr. Arnold points to the free thought of Bacon. Nobody in those days scented mischief
in the inductive philosophy, while in politics and religion Bacon was scrupulously orthodox.
Cromwell's faith was a narrower and coarser thing by far than that of the inmates of the "college
in a purer air;" but it brought religion and morality--not the most genial or rational morality,
but still morality--into the cottage as well as into the manor-house, and it was able to protect
its own existence When it had mounted to power in the person of its chief, the opinions of
Great Tew, and all opinions that would abstain from trying to overthrow the Government and
restore the tyranny, enjoyed practically larger and more assured liberty than they had ever
enjoyed in England before or were destined to enjoy for many a year to come. Falkland, says
Mr. Arnold, was in the grasp of fatality, hence the transcendent interest that attaches to
him. Cromwell, happily for his cause and for his country, was, or felt himself to be, not in
the grasp of fatality but in the hand of God.

Might we not have done just as well without Puritanism? Might not some other way have been
found of preserving the serious element in English character and saving English liberty from
those who were conspiring for its destruction? Such questions as these may be asked without
end, and they may be answered by any one who is endowed with a knowledge of men who were never
born, and of events that have never happened. Might not a way have been found of rescuing the
great interests of humanity without Greek resistance to Persian invasion, or German resistance
to the tyranny of Bonaparte? Suppose in place of the Puritan chiefs there had been raised up
by miracle a set of men at once consummate soldiers and perfect philosophers, who would have
fought and won the battle without being heated by the conflict. Suppose, to prevent the necessity
of any conflict at all, Charles, Strafford, and Laud had voluntarily abandoned their designs.
As it was, Puritanism did, and alone could do, the work. What the Renaissance would have been
without Puritan morality we can pretty well guess from the experience of Italy. It would have
probably been like the life of Lorenzo--vice, filthy vice, decorated with art and with elegant
philosophy; an academy under the same roof with a brothel. There were ages before morality,
and there have been ages between the moralities. There was, in England, an age between the
decline of the Catholic morality and the rise of the Puritan, marked by a laxity of conduct,
public and private, which was partly redeemed but not neutralized by Elizabethan genius and
enterprise. No doubt when the revival came, there was a High Church as well as a Puritan morality,
and that fact ought always to be borne in mind; but the High Church morality was inextricably
bound up with sacerdotal superstition and with absolute government; it had no hold on the people;
and it found itself suspiciously at home in the Court of James, in the households of Somerset
and Buckingham, and in the tribunal which lent itself to the divorce of Essex.

That the Puritan Revolution was followed by a sacerdotal and sensualist reaction is too true:
all revolutions are followed by reactions; it is one great reason for avoiding them. But let
it be remembered, first, that the disbanded soldiers of the Commonwealth and the other relics
of the Puritan party still remained the most moral and respectable element in the country;
and secondly, that the period of lassitude which follows great efforts, whether of men or nations,
is not altogether the condemnation of the effort, but partly the weakness of humanity. Nations
as well as men, if they aim high, must sometimes overstrain themselves, and weariness must
ensue. Nor did the Commonwealth of England come to nothing, though in a society not half emancipated
from feudalism it was premature, and therefore, at the time, a failure. It opened a glimpse
of a new order of things: it was the first example of a great national republic, the republics
of antiquity having been at once city republics and republics of slave-owners: it not only
heralded but, to some extent, prepared the American and even the French Revolution. In its
sublime death-song, chanted by the great Puritan poet, our ears catch the accents of a hope
that did not die.

The Restoration was the end of the Puritan party, which thenceforth separated into two portions,
the high political element taking the form of Whiggism, while the more religious element was
represented in subsequent history by the Nonconformists. Under the Marian reaction Protestantism
had been saved, and the errors which it had committed in its hour of ascendency had been redeemed
by the champions, drawn mostly from the humbler classes, who suffered for it at the stake.
Under the Restoration it was again saved, and the errors which it had once more committed in
the hour of political triumph were once more redeemed by martyrs of the same class, whose sufferings
in the noisome and pestilential prisons of that day were probably not much less severe than
the pangs of those who died by fire. Both in the Marian and in the Restoration martyrs of Protestantism
there was no doubt much that was irrational and unattractive; yet the record of their services
to humanity remains, and will remain; let the free-thought of modern times, for which their
self-devoting loyalty to such truth as they knew made way, be grateful or ungrateful to them
as it will.

The relations of Nonconformity, with which we must couple Scotch Presbyterianism, its partner
in fundamental doctrine, its constant ally in the conflict, and fellow-sufferer in the hour
of adversity, to English religion, morality, industry, education, philanthropy, science, and
to the English civilization in general, would be a most important and instructive chapter in
English history, but we are hardly called upon to attempt to write it in refutation of jocose
charges of "hideousness" and "immense ennui." A sufficient answer to such quips and cranks
will be found, we believe, within the same covers with Mr. Arnold's "Falkland," in the shape
of an article on the Pulpit, by Mr. Baldwin Brown, which in tone and culture appears to us
a fit companion for any other paper in the journal.

That Nonconformity has been political is true. Fortunately for the liberties of England it
has had to struggle for civil right in order to obtain religious freedom. No doubt in the course
of the conflict it has contracted a certain gloominess of character, and shown an unamiable
side. Treat men with persistent and insolent injustice, strip them of their rights as citizens,
put on them a social brand, compel them to pay for the maintenance of the pulpits from which
their religion is assailed, and you will run a very great risk of souring their tempers. But
without rehearsing disagreeable details, we may say generally that whoever should undertake
to prove that the Established Church had not been, from the hour of her birth down to the last
general election, at least as political as the Free Churches, and at least as responsible for
the evils which political religion has brought upon the nation, would show considerable confidence
in his powers of dealing with history. Could he find a parallel on the side of the Established
Church to the magnanimous loyalty to national interests shown by Nonconformists, in rejecting
the bribe offered them by James II., and supporting their persecutors against an illegal toleration?
Could he find a parallel on the side of the Nonconformists to the conduct of the Established
Church, in turning round, the moment the victory had been won by Nonconformist aid, and recommencing
the persecution of the Nonconformists?

We fully agree with Mr. Arnold, however, in thinking that political Nonconformity is an evil.
There are two known modes of getting rid of it--the Spanish Inquisition and religious equality.
Mr. Arnold seems to think that there is yet a third--general submission, in matters theological
and ecclesiastical, to the gentle sway of Beau Nash.

Religious equality in the United States may not be perfect unity, it may not be the height
of culture or of grace, but at all events it is peace. Ultramontanism there, as everywhere
else, is aggressive, and a source of disturbance; and, on the other hand, in the struggle against
slavery, political and religious elements were inevitably intermingled, but as a rule politics
are kept perfectly clear of religion. Saving in the case of Roman Catholicism, we cannot call
to mind a single instance of a serious appeal in an election to sectarian feeling. Much as
we have heard of the two candidates for the Presidency, we could not at this moment tell to
what Church either of them belongs. Where no Church is privileged, there can be no cause for
jealousy. The Churches dwell side by side, without disturbing the State with any quarrels;
they are all alike loyal to the government; they unite in supporting a system of popular education
which generally includes a certain element of unsectarian religion, they combine for social
and philanthropic objects; they testify, by their common celebration of national thanksgivings
and fasts their unity at all events as portions of the same Christian nation. So far as we
know, controversy between them is very rare; there is more of it within the several Churches
between their own more orthodox and more liberal members. In none does it rage more violently
than in the Episcopal Church, though, under religious equality, irreconcilable disagreement
on religious questions leads to seccession, not to mutual lawsuits and imprisonments.

Mr. Arnold says in praise of Falkland that "he was profoundly serious." We presume he means
not only that Falkland treated great questions in a serious way, without unseasonable quizzing,
but that he was, in the words quoted from Clarendon in the next sentence, "a precise lover
of truth, and superior to all possible temptations for its violation." The temptations, we
presume, would have included those of taste or fancy, as well as those of the more obvious
kind; and Falkland's paramount regard for truth would have extended to all his fellow-men as
well as to himself and his own intellectual circle. He would never, we are confident, have
advised any human being to separate religion from truth, he would never have suffered himself
to intimate that truth was the property of a select circle, while "poetry" was good enough
for the common people, he would never have encouraged thousands of clergymen, educated men
with sensitive consciences, to go on preaching to their flocks from the pulpit, on grounds
of social convenience, doctrines which they repudiated in the study, and derided in the company
of cultivated men, he would never have exhorted people to enter from aesthetic considerations
a spiritual society of which, in the same breath, he proclaimed the creeds to be figments,
the priesthood to be an illusion, the sacred narratives to be myths, and the Triune God to
be a caricature of Lord Shaftesbury multiplied by three. If he had done so, and if his propagandism
had been successful, we suspect he would soon have produced an anarchy, not only religious
but social, compared with which the most chaotic periods of the Revolution would have been
harmony and order. In the days of the Antonines, to which Gibbon looks back so wistfully, opinion
had little influence; the organic forces of society were of a more primitive and a coarser
kind. In modern times if a writer could succeed in separating truth from religion, he would
shake the pillars of the moral and social as well as the intellectual world.

That religion is inseparable from truth is the strong and special tradition of the Nonconformists.
Their history has been a long struggle for the rights of conscience against spurious authority,
an authority which we believe Mr. Arnold holds to be spurious as well as they. This is not
altogether a bad start in the pursuit of the truth for which the world now craves, and which,
we cordially admit, lies beyond the existing creed of any particular Church. At all events,
it would seem improvident to merge such an element of religious inquiry in that of which the
tradition is submission to spurious authority, whatever advantages the latter may have in social,
literary, and aesthetic respects. Not a generation has yet passed since the admission of Nonconformists
to the Universities; and more than a generation is needed in order to attain the highest culture.
Give the Free Churches time, and let us see whether they have not something better to give
us in return than "hideousness" and "immense ennui."

THE EARLY YEARS OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Our readers need not be afraid that we are going to bore them with the Slavery Question or
the Civil War. We deal here not with the Martyr President, but with Abe Lincoln in embryo,
leaving the great man at the entrance of the grand scene. Mr. Ward H. Lamon has published a
biography [Footnote: The Life of Abraham Lincoln from his Birth to his Inauguration as President.
By Ward H. Lamon. Boston: James R. Osgood & Co. 1872] which enables us to do this, and which,
besides containing a good deal that is amusing, is a curious contribution to political science,
as illustrating, by a world-renowned instance, the origin of the species Politician. The materials
for it appear to be drawn from the most authentic sources, and to have been used with diligence,
though in point of form the book leaves something to be desired. We trust it and the authorities
quoted in it for our facts.

After the murder, criticism, of course, was for a time impossible. Martyrdom was followed by
canonization, and the popular heart could not be blamed for overflowing in hyperbole. The fallen
chief "was Washington, he was Moses, and there were not wanting even those who likened him
to the God and Redeemer of all the earth. These latter thought they discovered in his early
origin, his kindly nature, his benevolent precepts, and the homely anecdotes in which he taught
the people, strong points of resemblance between him and the Divine Son of Mary." A halo of
myth naturally gathered round the cradle of this new Moses--for we will not pursue the more
extravagant and offensive parallel which may serve as a set-off against that which was drawn
by English Royalists between the death of Charles I. and the Crucifixion. Among other fables,
it was believed that the President's family had fled from Kentucky to Indiana to escape the
taint of Slavery. Thomas Lincoln, the father of Abraham, was migratory enough, but the course
of his migrations was not determined by high moral motives, and we may safely affirm that had
he ever found himself among the fleshpots of Egypt, he would have stayed there, however deep
the moral darkness might have been. He was a thriftless "ne'er do weel," who had very commonplace
reasons for wandering away from the miserable, solitary farm in Kentucky, on which his child
first formed a sad acquaintance with life and nature, and which, as it happened, was not in
the slave-owning region of the State. His decision appears to have been hastened by a "difficulty,"
in which he bit off his antagonist's nose--an incident to which it would be difficult to find
a parallel in the family histories of Scripture heroes, or even in those of the Sainted Fathers
of the Republic. He drifted to Indiana, and in a spot which was then an almost untrodden wilderness,
built a casa santa, which his connection, Dennis Hanks, calls "that darned little half-faced
camp"--a dwelling enclosed on three sides and open on the fourth, without a floor, and called
a camp, it seems, because it was made of poles, not of logs. He afterwards exchanged the "camp"
for the more ambitious "cabin," but his cabin, was "a rough, rough log one," made of unhewn
timber, and without floor, door or window. In this "rough, rough," abode, his lanky, lean-
visaged, awkward and somewhat pensive though strong, hearty and patient son Abraham had a "rough,
rough" life, and underwent experiences which, if they were not calculated to form a Pitt or
a Turgot, were calculated to season an American politician, and make him a winner in the tough
struggle for existence, as well as to identify him with the people, faithful representation
of whose aims, sentiments, tastes, passions and prejudices was the one thing needful to qualify
him for obtaining the prize of his ambition. "For two years Lincoln (the father) continued
to live alone in the old way. He did not like to farm, and he never got much of his land under
cultivation. His principal crop was corn; and this, with the game which a rifleman so expert
would easily take from the woods around him, supplied his table." It does not appear that he
employed any of his mechanical skill in completing and furnishing his own cabin. It has already
been stated that the latter had no window, door or floor. "But the furniture, if it might be
called furniture, was even worse than the house. Three-legged stools served for chairs. A bedstead
was made of poles stuck in the cracks of the logs in one corner of the cabin, while the other
end rested in the crotch of a forked stick stuck in the earthen floor. On these were laid some
boards, and on the boards a shake-down of leaves, covered with skins and old petticoats. The
table was a hewed puncheon supported by four legs. They had a few pewter and tin dishes to
eat from, but the most minute inventory of their effects makes no mention of knives or forks.
Their cooking utensils were a Dutch oven and a skillet. Abraham slept in the loft, to which
he ascended by means of pins driven into holes in the wall." Of his father's disposition, Abraham
seems to have inherited at all events the dislike to labour, though his sounder moral nature
prevented him from being an idler. His tendency to politics came from the same element of character
as his father's preference for the rifle. His melancholy, characterized by all his friends
as "terrible," was closely connected with the cravings of his demagogic ambition, and the root
of both was in him from a boy.

In the Indiana cabin Abraham's mother, whose maiden name was Nancy Hanks, died, far from medical
aid, of the epidemic called milk sickness. She was preceded in death by her relatives, the
Sparrows, who had succeeded the Lincolns in the "camp," and by many neighbours, whose coffins
Thomas Lincoln made out of "green lumber cut with a whip saw." Upon Nancy's death he took to
his green lumber again and made a box for her. "There were about twenty persons at her funeral.
They took her to the summit of a deeply wooded knoll, about half a mile south-east of the cabin,
and laid her beside the Sparrows. If there were any burial ceremonies, they were of the briefest.
But it happened that a few months later an itinerant preacher, named David Elkin, whom the
Lincolns had known in Kentucky, wandered into the settlement, and he either volunteered or
was employed to preach a sermon, which should commemorate the many virtues and pass over in
silence the few frailties of the poor woman who slept in the forest. Many years later the bodies
of Levi Hall and his wife (relatives), were deposited in the same earth with that of Mr. Lincoln.
The graves of two or three children, belonging to a neighbour's family, are also near theirs.
They are all crumbled, sunken and covered with wild vines in deep and tangled mats. The great
trees were originally cut away to make a small cleared space for this primitive graveyard;
but the young dogwoods have sprung up unopposed in great luxuriance, and in many instances
the names of pilgrims to the burial place of the great Abraham Lincoln's mother are carved
on their bark. With this exception, the spot is wholly unmarked. The grave never had a stone,
nor even a board, at its head or its foot, and the neighbours still dispute as to which of
these unsightly hollows contains the ashes of Nancy Lincoln." If Democracy in the New World
sometimes stones the prophets, it is seldom guilty of building their sepulchres. Out of sight,
off the stump, beyond the range of the interviewer, heroes and martyrs soon pass from the mind
of a fast-living people; and weeds may grow out of the dust of Washington. But in this case
what neglect has done good taste would have dictated; it is well that the dogwoods are allowed
to grow unchecked over the wilderness grave.

Thirteen months after the death of his Nancy, Thomas Lincoln went to Elizabethtown, Kentucky,
and suddenly presented himself to Mrs. Sally Johnston, who had in former days rejected him
for a better match, but had become a widow. "Well, Mrs. Johnston, I have no wife and you have
no husband, I came a purpose to marry you. I knowed you from a gal and you knowed me from a
boy. I have no time to lose, and if you are willin', let it be done straight off." "Tommy,
I know you well, and have no objection to marrying you; but I cannot do it straight off, as
I owe some debts that must first be paid." They were married next morning, and the new Mrs.
Lincoln, who owned, among other wondrous household goods, a bureau that cost forty dollars,
and who had been led, it seems, to believe that her new husband was reformed and a prosperous
farmer, was conveyed with her bureau to the smiling scene of his reformation and prosperity.
Being, however, a sensible Christian woman, she made the best of a bad bargain, got her husband
to put down a floor and hang doors and windows, made things generally decent, and was very
kind to the children, especially to Abe, to whom she took a great liking, and who owed to his
good stepmother what other heroes have owed to their mothers. "From that time on," according
to his garrulous relative, Dennis Hanks, "he appeared to lead a new life." It seems to have
been difficult to extract from him "for campaign purposes" the incidents of his life before
it took this happy turn.

He described his own education in a Congressional handbook as "defective." In Kentucky he occasionally
trudged with his little sister, rather as an escort than as a school-fellow, to a school four
miles off, kept by one Caleb Hazel, who could teach reading and writing after a fashion, and
a little arithmetic, but whose great qualification for his office lay in his power and readiness
"to whip the big boys." So far the American respect for popular education as the key to success
in life prevailed even in those wilds, and in such a family as that of Thomas Lincoln.

Under the auspices of his new mother, Abraham began attending school again. The master was
one Crawford, who taught not only reading, writing and arithmetic, but "manners." One of the
scholars was made to retire, and re-enter "as a polite gentleman enters a drawing room," after
which he was led round by another scholar and introduced to all "the young ladies and gentlemen."
He was long, wiry and strong, while his big feet and hands and the length of his arms and legs
were out of all proportion to his small trunk and head. The breeches clung close to his thighs
and legs, but parted by a large space to meet the tops of his shoes. Twelve inches remained
uncovered, and exposed that much of shinbone, sharp, blue and narrow." At a subsequent period,
when charged by a Democratic rival with being "a Whig aristocrat," he gave a minute and touching
description of the breeches.

Mr. Crawford, it seems, was a martinet in spelling, and one day he was going to punish a whole
class for failing to spell defied, when Lincoln telegraphed the right letter to a young lady
by putting his finger with a significant smile to his eye. Many years later, however, and after
his entrance into public life, Lincoln himself spelt apology with a double p, planning with
a single n, and very with a double r. His schooling was very irregular, his school days hardly
amounting to a year in all, and such education as he had was picked up afterwards by himself.
His appetite for mental food, however, was always strong, and he devoured all the books, few
and not very select, which could be found in the neighbourhood of "Pigeon Creek." Equally strong
was his passion for stump oratory, the taste for which pervades the American people, even in
the least intellectual districts, as the taste for church festivals pervades the people of
Spain, or the taste for cricket the people of England. Abe's neighbour, John Romine, says,
"he was awful lazy. He worked for me; was always reading and thinking; used to get mad at him.
He worked for me in 1829, pulling fodder. I say Abe was awful lazy, he would laugh and talk,
and crack jokes all the time, didn't love work, but did dearly love his pay." He liked to lie
under a shade tree, or up in the loft of the cabin and read, cipher, or scribble. At night
he ciphered by the light of the fire on the wooden fire shovel. He practised stump oratory
by repeating the sermons, and sometimes by preaching himself to his brothers and sister. His
gifts in the rhetorical line were high; when it was announced in the harvest field that Abe
had taken the stump, work was at an end. The lineaments of the future politician distinctly
appear in the dislike of manual labour as well as in the rest. We shall presently have Lincoln's
own opinion on that point.

Abe's first written composition appears to have been an essay against cruelty to animals, a
theme the choice of which was at once indicative of his kindness of heart and practically judicious,
since the young gentlemen in the neighbourhood were in the habit of catching terrapins and
putting hot coals upon their backs. The essay appears not to have been preserved, and we cannot
say whether its author succeeded in explaining that ethical mystery--the love of cruelty in boys.

In spite of his laziness, Abe was greatly in demand at hog-killing time, notwithstanding, or
possibly in consequence of which, he contracted a peculiarly tender feeling towards swine,
and in later life would get off his horse to help a struggling hog out of the mire or to save
a little pig from the jaws of an unnatural mother.

Society in the neighbourhood of Pigeon Creek was of the thorough backwoods type; as coarse
as possible, but hospitable and kindly, free from cant and varnish, and a better school of
life than of manners, though, after all, the best manners are learnt in the best school of
life, and the school of life in which Abe studied was not the worst. He became a leading favourite,
and his appearance, towering above the other hunting shirts, was always the signal for the
fun to begin. His nature seems to have been, like many others, open alike to cheerful and to
gloomy impressions. A main source of his popularity was the fund of stories to which he was
always adding, and to which in after life, he constantly went for solace, under depression
or responsibility, as another man would go to his cigar or snuff box. The taste was not individual
but local, and natural to keen-witted people who had no other food for their wits. In those
circles "the ladies drank whiskey-toddy, while the men drank it straight." Lincoln was by no
means fond of drink, but in this, as in every thing else, he followed the great law of his
life as a politician, by falling in with the humour of the people. One cold night be and his
companions found an acquaintance lying dead-drunk in a puddle. All but Lincoln were disposed
to let him lie where he was, and freeze to death. But Abe "bent his mighty frame, and taking
the man in his long arms, carried him a great distance to Dennis Hanks' cabin. There he built
a fire, warmed, rubbed and nursed him through the entire night, his companions having left
him alone in his merciful task." His real kindness of heart is always coming out in the most
striking way, and it was not impaired even by civil war.

Though sallow-faced, Lincoln had a very good constitution, but his frame hardly bespoke great
strength: he was six feet four and large-boned, but narrow chested, and had almost a consumptive
appearance. His strength, nevertheless, was great. We are told that harnessed with ropes and
straps he could lift a box of stones weighing from a thousand to twelve hundred pounds. But
that he could raise a cask of whiskey in his arms standing upright, and drink out of the bung-hole,
his biographer does not believe. The story is no doubt a part of the legendary halo which has
gathered round the head of the martyr. In wrestling, of which he was very fond, he had not
his match near Pigeon Creek, and only once found him anywhere else. He was also formidable
as a pugilist. But he was no bully; on the contrary, he was peaceable and chivalrous in a rough
way. His chivalry once displayed itself in a rather singular fashion. He was in the habit,
among other intellectual exercises, of writing satires on his neighbours in the form of chronicles,
the remains of which, unlike any known writings of Moses, or even of Washington, are "too indecent
for publication." In one of these he assailed the Grigsbys, who had failed to invite him to
a brilliant wedding. The Grigsby blood took fire, and a fight was arranged. But when they came
to the ring, Lincoln, deeming the Grigsby champion too much overmatched, magnanimously substituted
for himself his less puissant stepbrother, John Johnston, who was getting well pounded when
Abe, on pretence of foul play, interfered, seized Grigsby by the neck, flung him off and cleared
the ring. He then "swung a whiskey bottle over his head, and swore that he was the big buck
of the lick,"--a proposition which it seems, the other bucks of the lick, there assembled in
large numbers, did not feel themselves called upon to dispute.

That Abraham Lincoln should have said, when a bare-legged boy, that he intended to be President
of the United States, is not remarkable. Every boy in the United States says it; soon, perhaps,
every girl will be able to say it, and then human happiness will be complete. But Lincoln was
really carrying on his political education. Dennis Hanks is asked how he and Lincoln acquired
their knowledge. "We learned," he replies, "by sight, scent and hearing. We heard all that
was said, and talked over and over the questions heard; wore them slick, greasy and threadbare.
Went to political and other speeches and gatherings, as you do now; we would hear all sides
and opinions, talk them over, discuss them, agreeing or disagreeing. Abe, as I said before,
was originally a Democrat after the order of Jackson; so was his father, so we all were....
He preached, made speeches, read for us, explained to us, &c.... Abe was a cheerful boy, a
witty boy; was humorous always, sometimes would get sad, not very often.... Lincoln would frequently
make political and other speeches; he was calm, logical and clear always. He attended trials,
went to court always, read the Revised Statutes of Indiana, dated 1824, heard law speeches,
and listened to law trials. Lincoln was lazy, a very lazy man. He was always reading, scribbling,
writing, ciphering, writing poetry, and the like.... In Gentryville, about one mile west of
Thomas Lincoln's farm, Lincoln would go and tell his jokes and stories, &c., and was so odd,
original and humorous and witty, that all the people in town would gather around him. He would
keep them there till midnight. I would get tired, want to go home, cuss Abe most heartily.
Abe was a good talker, a good reader, and was a kind of newsboy." One or two articles written
by Abe found their way into obscure journals, to his infinite gratification. His foot was on
the first round of the ladder. It is right to say that his culture was not solely political,
and that he was able to astonish the natives of Gentryville by explaining that when the sun
appeared to set, it "was we did the sinking and not the sun."

Abe was tired of his home, as a son of Thomas Lincoln might be, without disparagement to his
filial piety; and he was glad to get off with a neighbour on a commercial trip down the river
to New Orleans. The trip was successful in a small way, and Abe soon after repeated it with
other companions. He shewed his practical ingenuity in getting the boat off a dam, and perhaps
still more signally in quieting some restive hogs by the simple expedient of sewing up their
eyes. In the first trip the great emancipator came in contact with the negro in a way that
did not seem likely to prepossess him in favour of the race. The boat was boarded by negro
robbers, who were repulsed only after a fray in which Abe got a scar which he carried to the
grave. But he saw with his own eyes slaves manacled and whipped at New Orleans; and though
his sympathies were not far-reaching, the actual sight of suffering never failed to make an
impression on his mind. A negrophilist he never became. It would be difficult to put the case
better.

While Abraham Lincoln was trading to New Orleans his father, Thomas Lincoln, was on the move
again. This time he migrated to Illinois, and there again shifted from place to place, gathering
no moss, till he died as thriftless and poor as he had lived. We have, in later years, an application
from him to his son for money, to which the son responds in a tone which implies some doubt
as to the strict accuracy of the ground on which the old gentleman's request was preferred.
Their relations were evidently not very affectionate, though there is nothing unfilial in Abe's
conduct. Abraham himself drifted to Salem on the Sangamon, in Illinois, twenty miles north-west
of Springfield, where he became clerk in a new store, set up by Denton Offutt, with whom he
had formed a connection in one of his trips to New Orleans. Salem was then a village of a dozen
houses, and the little centre of a society very like that of Pigeon Creek and its neighbourhood,
but more decidedly western. We are told that "here Mr. Lincoln became acquainted with a class
of men the world never saw the like of before or since. They were large men,--large in body
and large in mind; hard to whip and never to be fooled. They were a bold, daring and reckless
set of men; they were men of their own mind,--believed what was demonstrable, were men of great
common sense. With these men Mr. Lincoln was thrown; with them he lived and with them he moved
and almost had his being. They were sceptics all--scoffers some. These scoffers were good men,
and their scoffs were protests against theology,--loud protests against the follies of Christianity;
they had never heard of theism and the new and better religious thoughts of this age. Hence,
being natural sceptics and being bold, brave men they uttered their thoughts freely.... They
were on all occasions, when opportunity offered, debating the various questions of Christianity
among themselves; they took their stand on common sense and on their own souls; and though
their arguments were rude and rough, no man could overthrow their homely logic. They riddled
all divines, and not unfrequently made them sceptics,--disbelievers as bad as themselves. They
were a jovial, healthful, generous, true and manly set of people." It is evident that W. Herndon,
the speaker, is himself a disbeliever in Christianity, and addicted to the "newer and better
thought of this age." He gives one specimen, which we have omitted for fear of shocking our
readers, of the theological criticism of these redoubtable logicians of nature; and we are
inclined to infer from it that the divines whom they "riddled" and converted to scepticism
must have been children of nature as well as themselves. The passage, however, is a life-like,
though idealized, portrait of the Western man; and the tendency to religious scepticism of
the most daring kind is as truly ascribed to him as the rest.

It seems to be proved by conclusive evidence that Mr. Lincoln shared the sentiments of his
companions, and that he was never a member of any Church, a believer in the divinity of Christ,
or a Christian of any denomination. He is described as an avowed, an open freethinker, sometimes
bordering on atheism, going extreme lengths against Christian doctrines, and "shocking" men
whom it was probably not very easy to shock. He even wrote a little work on "Infidelity," attacking
Christianity in general, and especially the belief that Jesus was the Son of God; but the manuscript
was destroyed by a prescient friend, who knew that its publication would ruin the writer in
the political market. There is reason to believe that Burns contributed to Lincoln's scepticism,
but he drew it more directly from Volney, Paine, Hume and Gibbon. His fits of downright atheism
appear to have been transient; his settled belief was theism with a morality which, though
he was not aware of it, he had really derived from the Gospel. It is needless to say that the
case had never been rationally presented to him, and that his decision against Christianity
would prove nothing, even if his mind had been more powerful than it was. His theism was not
strong enough to save him from deep depression under misfortune; and we heard, on what we thought
at the time good authority, that after Chancellorsville, he actually meditated suicide. Like
many sceptics, he was liable to superstition, especially to the superstition of self-consciousness,
a conviction that he was the subject of a special decree made by some nameless and mysterious
power. Even from a belief in apparitions he was not free. The apparition is, of course, easily
explained by reference to a generally morbid temperament and a specially excited fancy. The
impression which it made on the mind of a sceptic, noted for never believing in anything which
was not actually submitted to his senses, is an instance of the tendency of superstition to
creep into the void left in the heart by faith, and as such may be classed with the astrological
superstitions of the Roman Empire, and of that later age of religious and moral infidelity
of which the prophet was Machiavelli. But if Mr. John Hay has faithfully repeated Lincoln's
words, a point upon which we may have our doubts without prejudice to Mr. Hay's veracity, Mrs.
Lincoln's interpretation of the vision is, to say the least, a very curious coincidence.

The flower of the heroic race in the neighbourhood of Salem, were the "Clary's Grove boys,"
whose chief and champion was Jack Armstrong. "Never," we are assured, "was there a more generous
parcel of ruffians than those over whom Jack held sway." It does not appear, however, that
the term ruffian is altogether misplaced. The boys were in the habit of "initiating" candidates
for admission to society at New Salem. "They first bantered the gentleman to run a foot race,
jump, pitch the mall, or wrestle; and if none of these propositions seemed agreeable to him,
they would request to know what he would do in case another gentleman should pull his nose
or squirt tobacco juice in his face. If he did not seem entirely decided in his views as to
what should be done in such a contingency, perhaps he would be nailed in a hogshead and rolled
down New Salem hill, perhaps his ideas would be brightened by a brief ducking in the Sangamon;
or perhaps he would be scoffed, kicked and cuffed by a great number of persons in concert,
until he reached the confines of the village, and then turned adrift as being unfit company
for the people of that settlement." If the stranger consented to race or wrestle, it was arranged
that there should be foul play, which would lead to a fight; a proper display of mettle in
which was accepted as a proof of the "gentleman's" fitness for society. Abe escaped initiation,
his length and strength of limb being apparently deemed satisfactory evidence of his social
respectability. But Clary's Grove was at last brought down upon him by the indiscretion of
his friend and admirer, Offutt, who was already beginning to run him for President, and whose
vauntings of his powers made a trial of strength inevitable. A wrestling match was contrived
between Lincoln and Jack Armstrong, and money, jackknives and whiskey were freely staked on
the result. Neither combatant could throw the other, and Abe proposed to Jack to "quit." But
Jack, goaded on by his partisans, resorted to a "foul," upon which Abe's righteous wrath blazed
up, and taking the champion of Clary's Grove by the throat he "shook him like a child." A fight
was impending, and Abe, his back planted against Offutt's store, was facing a circle of foes,
when a mediator appeared. Jack Armstrong was so satisfied of the strength of Abe's arm, that
he at once declared him the best fellow that ever came into the settlement, and the two thenceforth
reigned conjointly over the roughs and bullies of New Salem. Abe seems always to have used
his power humanely and to have done his best to substitute arbitration for war. A strange man
coming into the settlement, on being beset as usual by Clary's Grove and insulted by Jack Armstrong,
knocked the bully down with a stick. Jack being as strong as two of him was going to "whip
him badly," when Abe interposed, "Well Jack, what did you say to the man?" Jack repeated his
words. "And what would you do if you were in a strange place and you were called a d--d liar?"
"Whip him, by ---." "Then that man has done to you no more than you have done to him." Jack
acknowledged the golden rule and "treated" his intended victim. If there were ever dissensions
between the two "Caesars" of Salem, it was because Jack "in the abundance of his animal spirits"
was addicted to nailing people in barrels and rolling them down the hill, while Abe was always
on the side of mercy.

Abe's popularity grew apace; his ambition grew with it; it is astonishing how readily and freely
the plant sprouts upon that soil. He was at this time carrying on his education evidently with
a view to public life. Books were not easily found. He wanted to study English Grammar, considering
that accomplishment desirable for a statesman; and, being told that there was a grammar in
a house six miles from Salem, he left his breakfast at once and walked off to borrow it. He
would slip away into the woods and spend hours in study and thinking. He sat up late at night,
and as light was expensive, made a blaze of shavings in the cooper's shop. He waylaid every
visitor to New Salem who had any pretence to scholarship, and extracted explanations of things
which he did not understand. It does not appear that the work of Adam Smith, or any work upon
political economy, currency, or any financial subject fell into the hands of the student who
was destined to conduct the most tremendous operations in the whole history of finance.

The next episode in Lincoln's life which may be regarded as a part of his training was the
command of a company of militia in the "Black Hawk" war. Black Hawk was an Indian Chief of
great craft and power, and, apparently, of fine character, who had the effrontery to object
to being improved off the face of creation, an offence which he aggravated by an hereditary
attachment to the British. At a muster of the Sangamon company at Clary's Grove, Lincoln was
elected captain. The election was a proof of his popularity, but he found it rather hard to
manage his constituents in the field. One morning on the march the Captain commanded his orderly
to form the company for parade; but when the orderly called "parade," the men called "parade"
too, but could not fall into line. They had found their way to the officers' liquor the evening
before. The regiment had to march and leave the company behind. About ten o'clock the company
set out to follow; but when it had marched two miles "the drunken ones lay down and slept their
drink off." Lincoln, who seems to have been perfectly blameless, was placed under arrest and
condemned to carry a wooden sword; but it does not appear that any notice was taken of the
conduct of that portion of the sovereign people which lay down drunk on the march when the
army was advancing against the enemy. Something like this was probably the state of things
in the Northern army at the beginning of the civil war, before discipline had been enforced
by disaster. The campaign opened with a cleverly-won victory on the part of Black Hawk, and
a rapid retrograde movement on the part of the militia, as to which we will be content to say
with Mr. Lamon, "of drunkenness no public account makes any mention, and individual cowardice
is never to be imputed to American troops." Ultimately, however, Black Hawk was overpowered
and most of his men met their doom in attempting to retreat across the Mississippi. "During
this short Indian campaign," says one who took part in it, "we had some hard times, often hungry;
but we had a great deal of sport, especially at nights--foot racing, some horse racing, jumping,
telling anecdotes, in which Lincoln beat all, keeping up a constant laughter and good humour
all the time, among the soldiers some card-playing and wrestling in which Lincoln took a prominent
part. I think it safe to say he was never thrown in a wrestle. While in the army he kept a
handkerchief tied around him all the time for wrestling purposes, and loved the sport as well
as any one could. He was seldom if ever beat jumping. During the campaign Lincoln himself was
always ready for an emergency. He endured hardships like a good soldier; he never complained,
nor did he fear dangers. When fighting was expected or danger apprehended, Lincoln was the
first to say 'Let's go.' He had the confidence of every man of his company, and they strictly
obeyed his orders at a word. His company was all young men, and full of sport." The assertion
as to the strict and uniform obedience of the company at its captain's word, requires, as we
have seen, some qualification in a democratic sense. Whether Lincoln was ever beaten in wrestling
is also one of the moot points of history.

In the course of this campaign one Mr. Thompson, whose fame as a wrestler was great throughout
the west, accepted Lincoln's challenge. Great excitement prevailed, and Lincoln's company and
backers "put up all their portable property and some perhaps not their own, including knives,
blankets, tomahawks, and all the necessary articles of a soldier's outfit." As soon as Lincoln
laid hold of his antagonist he found that he had got at least his match, and warned his friends
of that unwelcome fact. He was thrown once fairly, and a second time fell with Thompson on
the top of him. "We were taken by surprise," candidly says Mr. Green, "and being unwilling
to put with our property and lose our bets, got up an excuse as to the result. We declared
the fall a kind of a dog-fall--did so apparently angrily." A fight was about to begin, when
Lincoln rose up and said, "Boys, the man actually threw me once fair, broadly so; and the second
time, this very fall, he threw me fairly, though not so apparently so." This quelled the disturbance.

On the same authority we are told that Lincoln gallantly interfered to save the life of a poor
old Indian who had thrown himself on the mercy of the soldiers, and whom, notwithstanding that
he had a pass, they were proceeding to slay. The anecdote wears a somewhat melodramatic aspect;
but there is no doubt of Lincoln's humanity, or of his readiness to protest against oppression
and cruelty when they actually fell under his notice. It was also in keeping with his character
to insist firmly on the right of his militiamen to the same rations and pay as the regulars,
and to draw the legal line sharply and clearly when the regular officers exceeded their authority
in the exercise of command.

Returning to New Salem, Lincoln, having served his apprenticeship as a clerk, commenced storekeeping
on his own account. An opening was made for him by the departure of Mr. Radford, the keeper
of a grocery, who, having offended the Clary's Grove boys, they "selected a convenient night
for breaking in his windows and gutting his establishment." From his ruins rose the firm of
Lincoln & Berry. Doubt rests on the great historic question whether Lincoln sold liquor in
his store, and on that question still more agonizing to a sensitive morality--whether he sold
it by the dram. The points remain, we are told, and will forever remain undetermined. The only
fact in which history can repose with certainty is that some liquor must have been given away,
since nobody in the neighbourhood of Clary's Grove could keep store without offering the customary
dram to the patrons of the place. When taxed on the platform by his rival, Douglas, with having
sold liquor, Mr. Lincoln replied that if he figured on one side of the counter, Douglas figured
on the other. "As a storekeeper," says Mr. Ellis, "Mr. Lincoln wore flax and tow linen pantaloons--I
thought about five inches too short in the legs--and frequently he had but one suspender, no
vest or coat. He had a calico shirt such as he had in the Black Hawk War; coarse brogues, tan-colour;
blue yarn socks, a straw hat, old style, and without a band." It is recorded that he preferred
dealing with men and boys, and disliked to wait on the ladies. Possibly, if his attire has
been rightly described, the ladies, even the Clary's Grove ladies, may have reciprocated the
feeling.

In storekeeping, however, Mr. Lincoln did not prosper; neither storekeeping nor any other regular
business or occupation was congenial to his character. He was born to be a politician. Accordingly
he began to read law, with which he combined surveying, at which we are assured he made himself
"expert" by a six weeks' course of study. They mix trades a little in the West. We expected
on turning the page to find that Mr. Lincoln had also taken up surgery and performed the Caesarean
operation. The few law books needed for Western practice were supplied to him by a kind friend
at Springfield, and according to a witness who has evidently an accurate memory for details,
"he went to read law in 1832 or 1833 barefooted, seated in the shade of a tree and would grind
around with the shade, just opposite Berry's grocery store, a few feet south of the door, occasionally
lying flat on his back and putting his feet up the tree." Evidently, whatever he read, especially
of a practical kind, he made thoroughly his own. It is needless to say that he did not become
a master of scientific jurisprudence, but it seems that he did become an effective Western
advocate. What is more, there is conclusive testimony to the fact that he was--what has been
scandalously alleged to be rare, even in the United States--an honest lawyer. "Love of justice
and fair play," says one of his brothers of the bar, "was his predominant trait. I have often
listened to him when I thought he would state his case out of Court. It was not in his nature
to assume or attempt to bolster up a false position. He would abandon his case first. He did
so in the case of Buckmaster for the use of Durham v. Beener & Arthur, in our Supreme Court,
in which I happened to be opposed to him. Another gentleman, less fastidious, took Mr. Lincoln's
place and gained the case." His power as an advocate seems to have depended on his conviction
that the right was on his side. "Tell Harris it's no use to waste money on me; in that case,
he'll get beat." In a larceny case he took those who were counsel with him for the defence
aside and said, "If you can say anything for the man do it. I can't. If I attempt it, the jury
will see that I think he is guilty and convict him of course." In another case he proved an
account for his client, who, though he did not know it, was a rogue. The counsel on the other
side proved a receipt. By the time he had done Lincoln was missing; and on the Court sending
for him, he replied, "Tell the judge I can't come; my hands are dirty, and I came over to clean
them." Mr. Herndon, who visited Lincoln's office on business, gives the following reminiscence:
--"Mr. Lincoln was seated at his table, listening very attentively to a man who was talking
earnestly in a low tone. After the would-be client had stated the facts of the case, Mr. Lincoln
replied, 'yes, there is no reasonable doubt but that I can gain your case for you. On one occasion,
however, Lincoln, we believe it must be admitted, resorted to sharp practice. William Armstrong,
the son of Jack Armstrong, of Clary's Grove, inheriting, as it seems, the "abundant animal
spirits" of his father, committed, as was universally believed, a very brutal murder at a camp
meeting, and being brought to trial was in imminent peril of the halter. Lincoln volunteered
to defend him. The witness whose testimony bore hardest on the prisoner swore that he saw the
murder committed by the light of the moon. Lincoln put in an almanac, which, on reference being
made to it showed that at the time stated by the witness there was no moon. This broke down
the witness and the prisoner was acquitted. It was not observed at the moment that the almanac
was one of the year previous to the murder; and therefore morally a fabrication. Herculean
efforts are made to prove that two almanacs were produced and that Mr. Lincoln was innocent
of any deception. But the best plea, we conceive, is, that Mr. Lincoln had rocked William Armstrong
in the cradle.

There is one part of Lincoln's early life which, though scandal may batten on it, we shall
pass over lightly, we mean that part which relates to his love affairs and his marriage. Criticism,
and even biography, should respect as far as possible the sanctuary of affection. That a man
has dedicated his life to the service of the public is no reason why the public should be licensed
to amuse itself by playing with his heart-strings. Not only as a storekeeper, but in every
capacity, Mr. Lincoln was far more happy in his relations with men than with women. He however
loved, and loved deeply, Ann Rutledge, who appears to have been entirely worthy of his attachment,
and whose death at the moment when she would have felt herself at liberty to marry him threw
him into a transport of grief, which threatened his reason and excited the gravest apprehensions
of his friends. In stormy weather especially he would rave piteously, crying that "he could
never be reconciled to have the snow, rains and storms to beat upon her grave." This first
love he seems never to have forgotten. He next had an affair, not so creditable to him, with
a Miss Owens, of whom, after their rupture, he wrote things which he had better have left unwritten.
Finally, he made a match of which the world has heard more than enough, though the Western
Boy was too true a gentleman to let it hear anything about the matter from his lips. It is
enough to say that this man was not wanting in that not inconsiderable element of worth, even
of the worth of statesmen, strong and pure affection.

"If ever," said Abraham Lincoln, "American society and the United States Government are demoralized
and overthrown, it will come from the voracious desire of office--this wriggle to live without
toil, from which I am not free myself." These words ought to be written up in the largest characters
in every schoolroom in the United States. The confession with which they conclude is as true
as the rest. Mr. Lincoln, we are told, took no part in the promotion of local enterprises,
railroads, schools, churches, asylums. The benefits he proposed for his fellow men were to
be accomplished by political means alone "Politics were his world--a world filled with hopeful
enchantments. Ordinarily he disliked to discuss any other subject." "In the office," says his
partner, Mr. Herndon, "he sat down or spilt himself (sic) on his lounge, read aloud, told stories,
talked politics--never science, art, literature, railroad gatherings, colleges, asylums, hospitals,
commerce, education, progress--nothing that interested the world generally, except politics."
"He seldom," says his present biographer, "took an active part in local or minor elections,
or wasted his power to advance a friend. He did nothing out of mere gratitude, and forgot the
devotion of his warmest partisans, as soon as the occasion for their services had passed. What
they did for him was quietly appropriated as the reward of superior merit, calling for no return
in kind." We are told that while he was "wriggling," he was in effect boarded and clothed for
some years by his friend, Hon. W. Butler, at Springfield, and that, when in power, he refused
to exercise his patronage in favour of his friend. On that occasion, his biographer tells us,
that he considered his patronage a solemn trust. We give him credit for a conscientiousness
above the ordinary level of his species on this as well as on other subjects. But his sense
of the solemn character of his trust, though it prevented him from giving a petty place to
the old friend who had helped him in the day of his need, did not prevent him, as President,
from sometimes paying for support by a far more questionable use of the highest patronage in
his gift.

The fact is not that the man was by nature wanting in gratitude or in any kindly quality, on
the contrary, he seems to have abounded in them all. But the excitement of the game was so
intense that it swallowed up all other considerations and emotions. In a dead season of politics,
his depression was extreme. "He said gloomily, despairingly, sadly, 'How hard, oh! how hard
it is to die and leave one's country no better than if one had never lived for it. This world
is dead to hope, deaf to its own death-struggle.'" Possibly this is the way in which "wriggling"
politicians generally put the case to themselves.

Lincoln's fundamental principle was devotion to the popular will. "'It is a maxim,' with many
politicians, just to keep along even with the humour of the people right or wrong." "This maxim,"
adds the biographer, "Mr. Lincoln held then, as ever since, in very high estimation." It may
occur to some enquiring minds to ask what, upon those principles, is the use of having representation
at all, and whether it would not be better to let the people themselves vote directly on all
questions without interposing a representative to diminish their sense of responsibility, to
say nothing of the sacrifice of the representative's conscience, which, in the cases of the
statesmen here described, was probably not very great. With regard to Slavery, however, Mr.
Lincoln showed forecast, if not conscientious independence. He stepped forth in advance of
the sentiments of his party, and to his political friends appeared rash in the extreme.

Lincoln's first attempt to get elected to the State Legislature was unsuccessful. It however
brought him the means of "doing something for his country," and partly averting the "death-struggle
of the world," in the shape of the postmastership of New Salem. The business of the office
was not on a large scale, for it was carried on in Mr. Lincoln's hat--an integument of which
it is recorded, that he refused to give it to a conjurer to play the egg trick in, "not from
respect for his own hat, but for the conjurer's eggs." The future President did not fail to
signalize his first appearance as an administrator by a sally of the jocularity which was always
struggling with melancholy in his mind. A gentleman of the place, whose education had been
defective, was in the habit of calling two or three times a day at the post-office, and ostentatiously
inquiring for letters. At last he received a letter, which, being unable to read himself, he
got the postmaster to read for him before a large circle of friends. It proved to be from a
negro lady engaged in domestic service in the South, recalling the memory of a mutual attachment,
with a number of incidents more delectable than sublime. It is needless to say that the postmaster,
by a slight extension of the sphere of his office, had written the letter as well as delivered it.

In a second candidature the aspirant was more successful, and he became one of nine representatives
of Sangamon County, in the State Legislature of Illinois, who, being all more than six feet
high, were called "The Long Nine." With his Brobdingnagian colleagues Abraham plunged at once
into the "internal improvement system," and distinguished himself above his fellows by the
unscrupulous energy and strategy with which he urged through the Legislature a series of bubble
schemes and jobs. Railroads and other improvements, especially improvements of river navigation,
were voted out of all proportion to the means or credit of the then thinly-peopled State. To
set these little matters in motion, a loan of eight millions of dollars was authorized, and
to complete the canal from Chicago to Peru, another loan of four millions of dollars was voted
at the same session, two hundred thousand dollars being given as a gratuity to those counties
which seemed to have no special interest in any of the foregoing projects. Work on all these
roads was to commence, not only at the same time, but at both ends of each road and at all
the river- crossings. There were as yet no surveys of any route, no estimates, no reports of
engineers, or even unprofessional viewers. "Progress was not to wait on trifles; capitalists
were supposed to be lying in wait to catch these precious bonds; the money would be raised
in a twinkling, and being applied with all the skill of a hundred De Witt Clintons--a class
of gentlemen at that time extremely numerous and obtrusive--the loan would build railroads,
the railroads would build cities, cities would create farms, foreign capital would rush in
to so inviting a field, the lands would be taken up with marvellous celerity, and the land
tax going into a sinking fund, that, with some tolls and certain sly speculations to be made
by the State, would pay principal and interest of debt without even a cent of taxation upon
the people. In short, everybody was to be enriched, while the munificence of the State in selling
its credit and spending the proceeds, would make its empty coffers overflow with ready money.
It was a dark stroke of statesmanship, a mysterious device in finance, which, whether from
being misunderstood or mismanaged, bore from the beginning fruits the very reverse of those
it had promised." We seem here to be reading the history of more than one great railway enterprise
undertaken by politicians without the red tape preliminaries of surveying or framing estimates,
progress not deigning to wait upon trifles. This system of policy gave fine scope for the talents
of the "log-roller," here defined as an especially wily and persuasive person, who could depict
the merits of his scheme with roseate but delusive eloquence, and who was said to carry a gourd
of "possum fat"--wherewith he "greased and swallowed" his prey. One of the largest of these
gourds was carried by "honest Abe," who was especially active in "log-rolling" a bill for the
removal of the seat of government from Vandalia to Springfield, at a virtual cost to the State
of about six millions of dollars, which we were told would have purchased all the real estate
in the town three times over. "Thus by log-rolling on the loud measure, by multiplying railroads,
by terminating these roads at Alton, that Alton might become a great city in opposition to
St. Louis; by distributing money to some of the counties to be wasted by the County Commissioners,
and by giving the seat of government to Springfield--was the whole State bought up and bribed
to approve the most senseless and disastrous policy which ever crippled the energies of a young
country." We are told, and do not doubt, that Mr. Lincoln shared the popular delusion; but
we are also told, and are equally sure, that "even if he had been unhappily afflicted with
individual scruples of his own he would have deemed it but simple duty to obey the almost unanimous
voice of his constituency." In other words, he would have deemed it his duty to pander to the
popular madness by taking a part in financial swindling. Yet he and his principal confederates
obtained afterwards high places of honour and trust. A historian of Illinois calls them "spared
monuments of popular wrath, evincing how safe it is to be a politician, but how disastrous
it may be to the country to keep along with the present fervour of the people." It is instructive
as well as just to remember that all this time the man was strictly, nay sensitively, honourable
in his private dealings, that he was regarded by his fellows as a paragon of probity, that
his word was never questioned, that of personal corruption calumny itself, so far as we are
aware, never dared to accuse him. Politics, it seems, may be a game apart, with rules of its
own which supersede morality.

Considering that, as we said before, this man was destined to preside over the most tremendous
operations in the whole history of finance, it is especially instructive to see what was the
state of his mind on economical subjects. He actually proposed to pass a usury law, having
arrived, it appears, at the sage conviction that while to pay the current rent for the use
of a house or the current fee for the services of a lawyer is perfectly proper, to pay the
current price for money is to "allow a few individuals to levy a direct tax on the community."
But this is an ordinary illusion. Abraham Lincoln's illusions went far beyond it. He actually
proposed so to legislate that in cases of extreme necessity there might "always be found means
to cheat the law, while in all other cases it would have its intended effect." He proposed
in fact absurdity qualified by fraud, the established practice of which would, no doubt, have
had a most excellent effect in teaching the citizens to reverence and the Courts to uphold
the law. As President, when told that the finances were low, he asked whether the printing
machine had given out, and he suggested, as a special temptation to capitalists, the issue
of a class of bonds which should be exempt from seizure for debt. It may safely be said that
the burden of the United States debt was ultimately increased fifty per cent through sheer
ignorance of the simplest principles of economy and finance on the part of those by whom it
was contracted.

Lincoln's style, both as a speaker and a writer, ultimately became plain, terse, and with occasional
faults of taste, caused by imperfect education, pure as well as effective. His Gettysburg address
and some of his State Papers are admirable in their way. Saving one very flat expression, the
address has no superior in literature. But it was impossible that the oratory of a rising politician,
especially in the West, should be free from spread-eagleism. Washington's mind, when he rises
from his grave at the Last Day, will be immediately relieved by the information that no Britisher
has ever trodden on his bones.

In debate he was neither bitter nor personal in the bad sense, though he had a good deal of
caustic humour and knew how to make an effective use of it.

Passing from State politics to those of the Union, and elected to Congress as a Whig, a party
to which he had gradually found his way from his original position as a "nominal Jackson man,"
Mr. Lincoln stood forth in vigorous though discreet and temperate opposition to the Mexican War.

Some extra charges made by General Cass upon the Treasury for expenses in a public mission,
afforded an opportunity for a hit at the great Democratic "war-horse." "I have introduced,"
said Lincoln, "General Cass's name here chiefly to show the wonderful physical capacity of the man.

Great events were by this time beginning to loom on the political horizon. The Missouri Compromise
was broken. Parties commenced slowly but surely to divide themselves into Pro-slavery and Anti-slavery.
The "irrepressible conflict" was coming on, though none of the American politicians--not even
the author of that famous phrase--distinctly recognised its advent. Lincoln seems to have been
sincerely opposed to slavery, though he was not an Abolitionist. But he was evidently led more
and more to take anti-slavery ground by his antagonism to Douglas, who occupied a middle position,
and tried to gain at once the support of the South and that of the waverers at the North, by
theoretically supporting the extension of slavery, yet practically excluding it from the territories
by the doctrine of squatters' sovereignty. Lincoln had to be very wary in angling for the vote
of the Abolitionists, who had recently been the objects of universal obloquy, and were still
offensive to a large section of the Republican party. On one occasion, the opinions which he
propounded by no means suited the Abolitionists, and "they required him to change them forthwith.
He thought it would be wise to do so considering the peculiar circumstances of his case; but,
before committing himself finally, he sought an understanding with Judge Logan. He told the
judge what he was disposed to do, and said he would act upon the inclination if the judge would
not regard it as treading on his toes. The judge said he was opposed to the doctrine proposed,
but for the sake of the cause on hand he would cheerfully risk his toes. And so the Abolitionists
were accommodated. Mr. Lincoln quietly made the pledge, and they voted for him." He came out,
however, square enough, and in the very nick of time with his "house divided against itself"
speech, which took the wind out of the sails of Seward with his "irrepressible conflict." Douglas,
whom Lincoln regarded with intense personal rivalry, was tripped up by a string of astute interrogations,
the answers to which hopelessly embroiled him with the South. Lincoln's campaign against Douglas
for the Senatorship greatly and deservedly enhanced his reputation as a debater, and he became
marked out as the Western candidate for the Republican nomination to the Presidency. A committee
favourable to his claims sent to him to make a speech at New York. Some of his supporters must
have moralized on the strange apparition which their summons had raised. His speech, however,
made before an immense audience at the Cooper Institute, was most successful. And as a display
of constitutional logic it is a very good speech. It fails, as the speeches of these practical
men one and all did fail, their "common sense" and "shrewdness" notwithstanding, in clear perception
of the great facts that two totally different systems of society had been formed, one in the
Slave States and the other in the Free, and that political institutions necessarily conform
themselves to the social character of the people. Whether the Civil War could, by any men or
means, have been arrested, it would be hard to say; but assuredly stump orators, even the very
best of them, were not the men to avert it. At that great crisis no saviour appeared. On May
10th, in the eventful year 1860, the Republican State Convention of Illinois, by acclamation,
and amidst great enthusiasm, nominated Lincoln for the Presidency. One who saw him receive
the nomination says, "I then thought him one of the most diffident and most plagued of men
I ever saw." We may depend upon it, however, that his diffidence of manner was accompanied
by no reluctance of heart. The splendid prize which he had won had been the object of his passionate
desire. The bearer of the rails, we are told, was met "with wild and tumultuous cheers," and
"the whole scene was simply tempestuous and bewildering."

The Democrats, of course, did not share the delight. An old man, out of Egypt, (the southern
end of Illinois) came up to Mr. Lincoln, and said. "So you're Abe Lincoln?" "That's my name,
sir." "They say you're a self- made man." "Well, yes what there is of me is self-made." "Well,
all I have got to say," observed the old Egyptian, after a careful survey of the statesman,
"is, that it was a d--n bad job." This seems to be the germ of the smart reply to the remark
that Andrew Johnson was a self- made man, "that relieves the Almighty of a very heavy responsibility."

The nomination of the State Convention of Illinois was accepted after a very close and exciting
contest between Lincoln and Seward by the convention of the Republican party assembled at Chicago.
The proceedings seem to have been disgraceful. A large delegation of roughs, we are told, headed
by Tom Shyer, the pugilist, attended for Seward. The Lincoln party, on the other side, spent
the whole night in mustering their "loose fellows," and at daylight the next morning packed
the wigwam, so that the Seward men were unable to get in.

Another politician was there nominally as a candidate, but really only to sell himself for
a seat in the Cabinet. When he claimed the fulfilment of the bond, Lincoln's conscience, or
at least his regard for his own reputation, struggled hard. What they might have said with
truth was that Abe was still honest but politics were not.

Widely different was the training undergone for the leadership of the people by the Pericles
of the American Republic from that undergone by the Pericles of Athens, or by any group of
statesmen before him, Greek, Roman, or European. In this point of view, Mr. Lamon's book is
a most valuable addition to the library of political science. The advantages and the disadvantages
of Lincoln's political education are manifest at a glance. He was sure to produce something
strong, genuine, practical, and entirely in unison with the thoughts and feelings of a people
which, like the Athenians in the days of Pericles, was to be led, not governed. On the other
hand, it necessarily left the statesman without the special knowledge necessary for certain
portions of his work, such as finance, which was detestably managed during Lincoln's Presidency,
without the wisdom which flows from a knowledge of the political world and of the past, without
elevation, and comprehensiveness of view. It was fortunate for Lincoln that the questions with
which he had to deal, and with which his country and the world proclaim him to have dealt,
on the whole, admirably well, though not in their magnitude and importance, were completely
within his ken, and had been always present to his mind. Reconstruction would have made a heavier
demand on the political science of Clary's Grove. But that task was reserved for other hands.

ALFREDUS REX FUNDATOR

A few weeks ago an Oxford College celebrated the thousandth anniversary of its foundation by
King Alfred. [Footnote: We keep the common spelling, though AElfred is more correct. It is
impossible, in deference to antiquarian preciseness, to change the spelling of all these names,
which are now imbedded in the English classics.]

