I think, however, that we might advantageously give greater power to the President in the matter
of legislation. One of the difficulties about a Congress--I say it with deference to that body--is
that it does not know enough about the executive facts which ought to control legislation in
the course of an efficient government. The introduction of cabinet officers on the floor of
the House and the floor of the Senate to urge legislation on the one hand, and to point out
the defects of proposed legislation, on the other hand, would furnish the necessary element.
This would, of course, make it requisite that cabinet officers should be able to look after
themselves on their feet. They would have to know their Department and be ready to answer such
questions as are put to cabinet officers on the floor of Parliament.

President Wilson has inaugurated the policy of delivering his message to Congress personally.
I think that is a good innovation. A Democrat could have made it, not a Republican. Washington
had to go to Congress, so had Adams, but when Jefferson came in he said, "No, that is monarchical,
and I will just write a letter to Congress," and so he did. Washington went once to the Senate
and attempted to have the Senate concur with him in a treaty with the Indians. He took with
him General Knox, who had frequently dealt with Indians. John Quincy Adams, in his diary, describes
what happened as he learned it from a member of the Senate at that time. He says that in the
conference, Washington found that every member of the Senate thought he knew more about the
Indian treaty than General Knox. Whereupon, he, the father of our country, who has been represented
as a model in every way, proved that he was no such "sissy" as some of his historians would
like to make him out. His character was one which develops into grand proportions when you
study it, but he was no mere steel engraving of copy-book perfection. When he got through with
that particular session, he turned to Knox as he went out, and said he would be damned if he
would come to the Senate again. Now I do not approve of profanity generally, but somehow or
other I rather like that story because it lets in a little light on Washington and shows he
was a man with good red blood.

The first power of the President that I wish to consider is the veto power. The English King
has it, but never exercises it, i.e., he has not exercised it for two hundred years. If he
attempted to exercise it under the present British Constitution, he would shake the throne
and should he try it a second time he might not have a throne under him. The President, however,
has the veto power under a provision of the Constitution. When he decides to differ with both
Houses, certain members of demagogic tendency rise to say that the President is exercising
a royal prerogative power, or that he is going back to the time of Imperial Rome. This might
frighten an inexperienced man, but in reality it is mere bluster. As a matter of fact, the
President represents the people in a much wider sense than any particular Congressional orator,
for he was elected by all the people, while the Congressman was chosen by only one district.
The Constitution says that if he disapproves of an act, he shall send it back with his objections
and it enjoins upon him the duty of examining every act and every bill that comes to him, to
see whether it ought to pass. He vetoes, therefore, in his representative capacity, with legislative
and suspensive, but not absolute, power. A vetoed act is returned to the House, and if its
supporters can succeed in getting a two-thirds majority in each House, the bill can still pass
over his veto. This rarely happens, however, for the President can usually give reasons good
enough to command the vote of at least the one-third of one House that is necessary to sustain
his veto.

The second great control exercised by the President is that of Commander-in-Chief. This includes,
first of all, his command over the army, which is complete. He can send the army where he chooses
and he can call out the state militia to repel invasion, to suppress insurrection and to execute
the laws, if the army or militia be necessary. Of that he alone is the judge. Early in our
history certain state judges thought that the commander of the militia in each state should
pass on the question as to whether an emergency had arisen which would justify the President
in calling out the militia, but that was one hundred years ago.

To illustrate our practice now in regard to the execution of laws with the aid of the army,
there is one very striking instance which occurred within my memory. Debs organized the American
Railway Union in order to take the American people by the throat and say to them: "You shall
not have any milk for your babies, you shall not have any food, you shall not have anything.
I am going to stop every railroad in the country until you come with me and make Pullman pay
his men what I think they ought to have, and what they think they ought to have." That was
a secondary boycott, which Mr. Cleveland said ought to be suppressed. Since it involved the
stoppage of mails and interstate commerce, the United States courts issued injunctions to prevent
the malcontents from continuing their work of obstruction. When Debs's Union defied the court
injunction, the President sent General Miles out to Chicago with a military force to suppress
that obstruction to the United States laws.

At this Governor Altgeld protested. "I can take care of this; I have not asked you to bring
these men in here. Under the Constitution it is necessary for the governor or legislature to
request the President to send troops in to suppress domestic insurrection which the governor
of the state cannot control."

To which Mr. Cleveland and Mr. Olney answered: "That is true where the insurrection does not
relate to the United States laws, but where there is an obstruction of the United States laws,
the Supreme Court has decided repeatedly that the President is dealing, not with state territory,
but with the territory of the United States. He can execute the laws of the United States on
every foot of United States soil and have the whole army enforce them." And so he did.

Another indirect power of the President as Commander-in-Chief was exhibited in a most remarkable
way during the Spanish War. We took over successively Cuba, Porto Rico and the Philippines,
but for three years after we had annexed the Philippines, Congress took no action in regard
to any of them. They formed territory ceded to us by virtue of the Treaty of Paris and Congress
thought the Philippines were a poker that was a little bit hot for it to handle. The responsibility
for them, therefore, fell upon the President, and as Commander-in-Chief he introduced a quasi-civil
government, appointing a civil governor and commission, whom he authorized to pass laws--subject
to veto of the Secretary of War--and to enforce them. He thus carried on a complete government
in Porto Rico, Cuba and the Philippines under his power as Commander-in-Chief until Congress
became sufficiently advised to enact needed legislation for their government. Cuba was turned
over to her people, a Republic was set going. Then after several years, circumstances made
it necessary for us to step in and take Cuba again. They had gotten into a row, as they frequently
do in those Latin-American countries, and they were having a revolution.

When we first let Cuba go, we made what was called the Platt Amendment to the Cuban Treaty,
suggested by Senator Platt of this state. That amendment provided for the restoration of order
by the United States whenever law and order were disturbed and whenever life, liberty and property
were not secure. Mr. Roosevelt, therefore, sent me down to Cuba with Mr. Bacon to see if we
could not adjust the matter. When we arrived, we found twenty thousand revolutionist troops
outside the city of Havana. President Palma had been so certain of peace that he had made no
provision to suppress insurrections, and these troops were just about ready to march into Havana
when I got there. I went out to stay at the house of the American Minister in a suburb just
between the lines, and we did what we could to compose the situation. In those countries when
they have a revolution, the first thing they do is to elect generals. The next thing they do
is to determine what the uniform of the generals shall be, and then they get the guns and last
of all they organize. President Palma became discouraged and resigned so that I had to proclaim
myself Provisional Governor of Cuba. The Platt Amendment said that the United States could
go into Cuba to preserve order; but the question was whether the President had the authority
to go in without authorization by a resolution of Congress. I always thought that he had and
Congress seemed to agree to it. So we went in, established a provisional government, passed
a good election law, held an election and, at the end of a year, turned back the government
to the Cubans, where it now is.

The President has not the power to declare war. Congress has that power; but if a foreign nation
invades our country, the President must, without awaiting such declaration, resist and use
the army and navy for that purpose. It is, therefore, possible for us to actually get into
war before Congress makes a formal declaration. That is what happened in the Civil War. The
Southern states seceded and Mr. Lincoln had war on his hands before Congress could declare
it. The President thereupon declared a blockade of the Southern ports and the question then
came up as to whether it was a legal blockade so that prizes might be taken as in a naval war.
Our war vessels had captured merchant vessels trying to run the blockade, had taken them into
prize courts, and had sold them there, distributing the proceeds among themselves. The owners
fought the proceedings and these suits, called "The Prize Cases," were carried to the Supreme
Court of the United States. The court held that while Congress under the Constitution had sole
power to declare war, nevertheless, actual war might follow with all its legal consequences
if a nation invaded our country or if such an insurrection arose as that which had just taken
place in the Civil War.

Let me give you an example of presidential authority exercised in pursuance of his constitutional
duty to execute the laws even when Congress passes no law on the subject-matter. The Canal
Zone was acquired by a treaty with Panama that followed its recognition--a recognition made
with such promptness that it has since attracted some criticism. Congress passed a law that
the President should have power to govern that country for a year, but failed to renew the
grant of power. The question arose then as to what was to be done in the Canal Zone. A prior
act covering the building of the Panama Canal required the President to build it through a
commission, but that was all. He might build it anywhere, either in Nicaragua or Panama, but
he had no express governmental power over the Canal territory. He had, however, to see that
the laws were executed, which meant that he must look after every piece of territory belonging
to the United States and safeguard it in the interest of the people. It seemed to us, therefore,
to be within the executive authority, until Congress should act, to continue the government
of the Zone, maintain courts, execute men who committed murder, and discharge all the political
functions required to constitute a law-abiding community.

Let me give you another instance of the President's exercising a law that Congress did not
pass. Sarah Althea Hill thought she was married to Senator Sharon, at least she said she thought
so. Senator Sharon was a rich man. She wished to share it. So she brought in the State courts
of California a suit for divorce and alimony against the senator and exhibited a letter purporting
to have been written by the senator admitting the marriage. She got into a great deal of litigation
and employed as her lawyer Judge Terry. Senator Sharon then brought suit in the United States
Court in California to have this letter declared a forgery and delivered up to him. Justice
Field of the United States Supreme Court heard the case on the circuit. Judge Terry, who had
been on the Supreme Court of California in its early days and had served on the same court
with Judge Stephen J. Field, was a noted duelist and was known to have killed one man in a
duel. Mr. Justice Field had been appointed from the California court to be a Supreme Justice
of the United States by Mr. Lincoln during the war. Pending the litigation, Senator Sharon
died and soon thereafter the association of Miss Hill and Judge Terry as client and counsel
developed into a warmer relation and they became man and wife. She was a very violent woman,
as Judge Terry was a violent man, and made threatening demonstrations in court when Justice
Field gave the judgment against her. Justice Field sentenced Mrs. Terry to thirty days' imprisonment
for contempt because in her fury she insulted the Court and attempted to commit violence upon
the Judge. The bitterness of feeling between the Terrys and Justice Field was really heightened
by the old association between Judge Terry and Justice Field as judicial colleagues. The Terrys
frequently declared their intention, when occasion offered, to kill Judge Field. Word of this
came to the Attorney-General, then W. H. H. Miller, in Mr. Harrison's administration. He notified
the United States Marshal to direct a deputy to follow Justice Field in his Circuit work and
protect him against any threatened attack.

As Justice Field was proceeding north from Los Angeles to San Francisco to hold court there,
he got out for breakfast at Fresno. Unfortunately the Terrys reached the same station on another
train at the same time. Justice Field and Neagle, the deputy marshal, got out of the train,
went into the restaurant and sat down. When Judge and Mrs. Terry came in and Mrs. Terry saw
Justice Field, she ran out to the car to get a revolver she had left in her satchel by an oversight.
In the meantime Judge Terry went up to Justice Field, denounced him and struck him from behind.
Thereupon Neagle arose, saying, "I am an officer, keep off," but Judge Terry continued to assault
Justice Field. Neagle said he thought Judge Terry reached for a knife. At any rate, Neagle
shot, and Terry fell dead at the feet of Justice Field.

Neagle was at once indicted by a state jury for murder. He went into the Federal Court and
got a writ of habeas corpus, asking to be released on the ground that he was discharging a
duty under the government of the United States. Judge Sawyer granted the writ and released
Neagle. The state of California took the case to the Supreme Court of the United States. The
court divided, with the Chief Justice and Justice Lamar dissenting. The majority of the court
held, Mr. Justice Miller pronouncing the judgment, that the President was justified by the
duty imposed upon him by the Constitution to see that the laws were faithfully executed. Although
there was no specific law on the statute book conferring upon the President authority to direct
Neagle to take the action he did, there was an implied obligation on the part of the government
to protect its judges in discharging their duty from the violence of disappointed litigants,
and this obligation was a law which it was the duty of the President to see executed. The President,
therefore, has the right through his Attorney-General, who is the finger of his hand, to direct
an officer of the United States to protect to the uttermost a justice while on judicial duty,
even if it necessitates killing an assailant.

I cannot tell you all the officers of the United States--internal revenue men, customs men,
post-office men, immigrant inspectors, public land men, reclamation men, marine hospital men--certainly
150,000 in number, who are subject to the direction of the President. In the executive work
under this head, he wields a most far-reaching power in the interpretation of Congressional
acts. A great many statutes never come before the court. The President or his officers for
him have finally to decide what a statute means when it directs them to do something. Many
statutes contain a provision that under that statute, regulations must be made by executive
officers in order to facilitate their enforcement. This is quasi-legislative work. The situation
in regard to the present income tax illustrates the necessity for regulations. You will recognize
that regulations adopted by the President and his subordinates are sometimes necessary to straighten
out law. If you desire to study a maze or look into a labyrinth, I commend you to the present
income tax law.

Then often Congress relies upon the discretion of the President to accomplish such tremendous
things as in the Panama Canal. It directed the President to build the Canal. It remained for
him to appoint all the persons engaged in the work, and he became responsible for every one
of them. Another notable instance of the reliance of Congress upon the President occurred in
the Spanish War, when it appropriated $50,000,000 to be allotted at his discretion.

Yet it seems to me that a curtailment of the small duties now imposed on the President might
well be made. The number of his appointments, for instance, might well be lessened. The President
ought, of course, to appoint his Cabinet, the Supreme Court, ambassadors, ministers, generals
and admirals, but beyond that I think appointments ought to be made without bothering the President
about them. We have introduced a Civil Service reform system with a Civil Service Commission,
and I trust that the matter of taking these subordinate officers out of politics will be pressed
generally as a much-needed reform.

Is the position occupied by a postmaster of sufficient importance to justify the President
in bothering with his appointment when he has such a problem as the Mexican situation on his
hands? We are coming to the time when there are great complicated duties to perform under the
government. We have departed from the Jefferson view, and we now think that the government
can do a great many things helpfully, provided it has experts to do them. Is it not entitled
to the best men to do these things? Yet how are experts obtainable unless they are selected
to permanent positions by those who are looking for experts and not looking for men who exercise
influence at the polls?

I recommended to Congress four times, that is, in each annual message, that it enable me to
put these men under the Civil Service law and in the classified service; but it did not do
it, and why? Because all local officers now have to be confirmed by the Senate. That power
of confirmation gives a hold on the Executive and each Senator and each Congressman wants to
name the postmaster and the other local officers in his district or state. The consequence
is that Congressmen do not wish the Senate to lose the power of confirmation. They believe
this personal patronage to be a means of perpetuating their own tenure. As a matter of fact,
this is not the case. Few men help themselves politically in the long run through the use of
patronage. It is a boomerang. Some few manage to make it useful, but generally when a man secures
an appointment for a henchman, as the saying is in Washington--and it is a very true one--he
makes one ingrate and twenty enemies. The result is that after he has served a term or two,
he begins to find those aspiring constituents, whom he did not appoint, rising like snakeheads
to strike him down.

Therefore, if Congressmen really had wisdom and looked ahead, they would rid themselves of
responsibility for these appointments, would abolish the necessity for confirmation by the
Senate, and would thus enable the President to classify them under the Civil Service law and
merit system. But we have made progress and I am not discouraged about it. Ultimately we shall
get the Senate to consent to give up that power, though at present the Democratic majority
in the two Houses is fierce against such a suggestion, and quite naturally so, for, while the
Republican party has been in control for sixteen years, the trend into office has been Republican
and the Democrats wish to change it. That is human nature, and I am merely regretting, not
condemning it. Perhaps if the Republicans come back into power after four years, they will
not be quite so hungry as the Democrats were after sixteen years of famine, and we may have
a little less wolfish desire to get at the offices.

The time taken up in the consideration of minor appointments by executive officers, the President
and Cabinet officers especially, is a great waste and no one can know the nervous vitality
that can be expended upon them until he has had actual experience.

Of course they lead to some amusing experiences, for there is nothing which gives such a chance
for the play of human impulse as office-seeking. I remember having a lady come into my office
when I was Secretary of War. Her boy had passed the examination for West Point, but a medical
board had examined him and found that his chest did not measure enough for his height. She
came in to urge me to waive that defect. I explained to her the necessity for great care in
the appointment of army officers, because if, after being commissioned, they had any organic
trouble, they were disqualified for further discharge of their duty, and would be retired on
three-fourths pay without rendering any real service to the government. She listened with gloom
to my explanation, and asked me to look at the papers. I took them in her presence and went
through them. I found that the young man had, on the basis of 100, made 93 per cent in all
his mental examinations. That isn't done by every candidate for West Point, and there is no
reason why we should not have brains as well as brawn in army officers. So I looked again at
the measurements and concluded he was a man we ought not to lose. I told her: "Madam, I did
not have so much difficulty in filling out my chest measurement. Your boy shows such general
intelligence that I have no doubt he will have sense enough to pursue a regimen that will make
him sufficiently enlarge his chest measurement, so I am going to waive the objection and let
him in." She had not expected so quick a decision in her favor, and was taken back a little.
She hesitated a minute, and then, with an angelic smile, she said to me, "Mr. Secretary, you
are not nearly so fat as they say you are."

Then I had another experience. A lady in Washington, whose husband had some political influence,
came and labored with me for six weeks or more to appoint her son to a position. She secured
the aid of Senators and Congressmen in formidable number and came with them to see that they
spoke with emphasis. The place was one requiring technical qualification, and following the
recommendation of the head of the Bureau, I appointed somebody else. I then received a letter
from the mother, saying that I was most ungrateful, since I declined to make her a happy woman
as I could have done by a turn of my hand. She complained further that she had labored with
her state delegation and got all the votes for an administration bill in which I was especially
interested and this was the way I had rewarded her.

When you get a letter like that, the first thing you do is to think how you can be severe with
a person who has committed an impropriety, or even been a little impertinent. Then you may
compose an answer. Then if you are wise, you will put the letter in a drawer and lock the drawer.
Take it out in the course of two days--such communications will always bear two days' delay
in answering--and when you take it out after that interval, you will not send it. That is just
the course I took. After that, I sat down and wrote her just as polite a letter as I could,
telling her I realized a mother's disappointment under such circumstances, but that really
the appointment was not left to my mere personal preference, that I had to select a man with
technical qualifications, and had, therefore, to follow the recommendation of the head of the
Bureau. I expressed the hope that her son would go on to accomplish what she had hoped for
him in the position which he then had. That mollified her and she wrote me a note saying she
was sorry she had written as she had.

But the appointment I sent in was not confirmed at once and after an interval I received a
letter which purported to come from her husband, though it was in the same handwriting as all
the others. I was therein advised that, due to the nervous prostration that had followed her
disappointment in this case, she had to take to her bed and had developed a most serious case
of cancer of the stomach. Would I not restore her to health by withdrawing the first name and
replacing it by her son's? I had to write another letter, this one to the husband, to say that
I hoped the diagnosis would prove to be inaccurate, that I sympathized with him in the sorrow
he must have in the serious illness of his wife, but that it was impossible to withdraw the
name sent in. The man whom I appointed was confirmed, and within two days after I received
that letter, we gave a musicale at the White House. The first two people to greet Mrs. Taft
and me were this husband and wife, though the wife had so recently been in articulo mortis.

Another great power of the President is his control of our foreign relations. In domestic matters,
the Federal government shares every field, executive, judicial and legislative, with the states,
but in foreign affairs, the whole governmental control is with the President, the Senate and
Congress. The states have nothing to do with it. The President initiates a treaty and the Senate
confirms it. The Senate, however, cannot initiate a treaty, the President alone can do that.
Congress' powers to declare war and regulate our foreign commerce are its chief powers in respect
to our foreign relations. So that, except in ratifying treaties, in regulating commerce and
in declaring war, the President guides our whole foreign policy.

Through the State Department he conducts all negotiation and correspondence with other governments
and according to the Constitution he receives ambassadors and foreign ministers. Now you might
possibly think that that meant only that he must have a flunky at the White House to take their
cards--but it means a good deal more. He appoints ambassadors and ministers to other countries
and instructs them. He receives the diplomatic representatives from other countries and does
business with them. He construes treaties and asserts the rights of our government and our
citizens under them. He considers and decides the rights of other governments and their subjects
in a way which practically binds our government and people. And in order to receive ambassadors
and ministers, he must determine whether they have been properly accredited, so that they have
the proper authority to act for the country they claim to represent.

When there is a dispute as to what person is the chief executive of a foreign country and therefore
entitled to send an ambassador or minister, the President must decide it. In other words, he
alone can exercise the power of recognition. How important a power this is, we may know from
our recent experiences with Mexico, for President Wilson, by withholding recognition from General
Huerta, was able to render his longer tenure as chief executive impossible.

In our foreign relations it is often the President's duty to formulate the national claim of
sovereignty over territory whose ownership is in dispute. This is a political question and
his decision or claim in regard to it is taken as final by the Supreme Court.

In the Fur-Seal Controversy, Mr. Blaine took the position that our jurisdiction reached out
over the Bering Sea. The question was contested in the Supreme Court by the British and the
Canadian governments. The Supreme Court said: "We cannot determine this. It is a political
question and must, therefore, be decided by the President through his Secretary of State."
We then submitted the issue to an international tribunal, and the decision was against us.

Another great power of the President is the power of pardons and reprieves. This is not to
be determined by rules of law nor indeed by absolute rules of any kind and must, therefore,
be wielded skilfully lest it destroy the prestige and supremacy of law. Sometimes one is deceived.
I was. Two men were brought before me, both of whom were represented as dying. When a convict
is near his end, it has been the custom to send him home to die. So, after having all the surgeons
in the War Department examine them to see that the statements made to me about them were correct,
I exercised the pardoning power in their favor. Well, one of them kept his contract and died,
but the other seems to be one of the healthiest men in the community today.

The President is also the titular head of a party and ought to have a large influence in legislation.
He is made responsible to the country for his party's majority in Congress, and does thereby
have some voice in legislation. Some Presidents have more control than others, but all Presidents
find as the patronage is distributed, and as the term goes on, that the influence and power
that they have over legislation rapidly diminishes. In fact, when there are no more offices
to distribute and somebody else comes into view as the next President, the authority of the
incumbent becomes strictly limited to his constitutional functions. All of this tends to show
that a President who seeks legislative changes and reforms should begin early.

The people think that the Presidency gives a man an opportunity to make a lot of personal appointments.
I can recall some of these personal appointments, but I tell you they are very few. There are
certain political obligations involving the recognition of party leaders which he has to take
into consideration with reference to some appointments. But when it comes to purely personal
appointments, one can count them on the fingers of one hand. It is well that it is so. A President
with his proper sense of duty finds many men in office whom he ought to let continue and the
question of friendship for others can play no part in displacing them.

The social influence of the President in Washington is not much. I think perhaps it might be
useful if it were a little more, for the question of precedence, which makes everybody outside
of Washington laugh, sometimes becomes a very serious matter. As the French ambassador once
said, when there are three hundred people, they cannot all go through the door at one time.
Somebody has to go first, therefore it is most important to fix who that somebody shall be.
But nobody in Washington has the authority to say. If only the army and navy were concerned,
the matter would be easy enough, because they are controlled by the President and he can issue
orders that they must respect, but with civil officers he has no such authority. Congress could,
of course, provide rules of social and official precedence, either by legislation or executive
order, as is done in all European countries. But here such a proposal would be laughed out
of Congressional halls, though it would be a wise measure to prevent confusion, unnecessary
friction and heartburning.

The very men who make most fun of such matters and profess to despise their consideration are
in actual practice the most unreasonable as to their own places at functions. The House of
Representatives is supposed to be the embodiment of democracy and contempt for social distinctions,
yet of all the people in the world who have made a fuss over the matter of precedence, speakers
of the House of Representatives have been the most insistent on their proper place at official
dinners. The speaker says: "I represent the body of the people who come from the soil and the
people who make this country. Therefore, I decline to sit after the presiding officer of the
Senate." An ambassador says: "I am the personal representative of my sovereign. If he were
here in Washington, he would sit next to the President." The Cabinet officer says: "The President
is the head. I am connected with him as Secretary of War, the Cabinet is a small body and the
Senate is a large body. Therefore, we are bigger men than the Senate and we ought to have precedence."
In fact, the head of a scientific bureau came in to see me one day and said, "I think you ought
to put me after the Supreme Court." He even filed a brief with me on the subject, to the effect
that "I run an independent department. The judges represent the judicial branch, and the President
the executive branch, and the heads of the two Houses, the legislative branch, while I represent
the scientific branch." Indeed, the matter of procedure is not such a joke as it seems outside.
It is not so important as to who comes first as that their order of precedence should be once
determined.

The President is made responsible for everything, especially for hard times. Of course his
supporters claim credit for good crops, so that perhaps it is not so unfair to charge him with
responsibility for bad crops and for everything else that happens wrong during his term. Every
President strives to do the best he can for the country. It is a great task, one of the heaviest
in the world. A man does not really know, until he gets out of the office, what the strain
is. And, therefore, knowing that he is struggling to do the best he can, while he may differ
with you, while he may do things that seem to you absurd, consider that he is there, elected
by the American people, as your representative, and remember that while he is in office he
is entitled to your respect. Now, don't be flippant in regard to him. Don't think it shows
you to be a big man to criticise him or speak contemptuously of him. You may differ with his
policy, but always maintain a profound respect for a man who represents the majesty and the
sovereignty of the American people.

CHAPTER IV

THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES

We are living at a time when political and social conditions are a bit chaotic, and it is a
little difficult to distinguish between the symptoms that are ephemeral and those which are
permanent. What we must do is to try to make things better and to save from the past the things
which are good. It is often true that a movement that is excessive and destructive in one way,
ends by being the basis of great progress after reaction from its excesses has left what is
valuable in it.

Our American Revolution, which we are accustomed to regard as quite important--and it was for
us--did not really represent a great world change such as was represented in the French Revolution.
It grew out of a very unwise, selfish colonial policy on the part of Great Britain. We were
right and wise in putting it through, and our ancestors demonstrated great courage and great
tenacity in fighting it. It certainly gave us independence and an opportunity for expansion
that we should not otherwise have had. But the pap that we have been brought up on with respect
to the tremendous outrages which Great Britain inflicted on us was sweetened a little bit.
If you would see the other side, read Trevelyan's "American Revolution." In this you will see
that while the right was certainly with us, we were not quite so much outraged as it seemed
in our earlier childhood studies. The American Revolution did as much good for England as it
did for us, because it taught her proper colonial policy, and today the colonial policy of
Great Britain is one of the greatest instances of statesmanship in history. In her dealing
with Canada, with Australia and with the South African Republic, she has given them such self-government
that, far from wishing to sever the bond with the mother country, they cherish it.

The French Revolution indicated a very much more important movement among peoples. It developed
awful excesses. The wild declarations and extremes practiced by the Committee of Safety in
the French Revolution were revolting to any man affected by ordinary humane considerations
and had in fact a remarkable effect in strengthening conservatism in England. Indeed, they
caused the issue and the bitter personal quarrel between the one-time warm associates, Burke
and Fox. The natural result of those excesses was to be expected. It took the shape of the
man on horseback. The imperial control of Napoleon led the French people into a military waste
of strength which has affected the French race even down to the present time. Yet Napoleon,
by building up his Code Napoleon, and by spreading over Europe the idea that the people were
the basis of government, profoundly affected political conceptions and conditions. There followed
a reaction in the Holy Alliance, which was a combination to maintain the Divine Right of Kings,
and then the spirit of the French Revolution reasserted itself in 1830. In fact from then on
until now the movement toward more and more popular government has gone on continuously in
France, Germany, Austria and elsewhere. It is spreading today even more widely than it ever
did before, and every country, even Russia, has to count the cost with respect to the will
of the people.

