"We don't want to start any excitement," said the officer, as they drew rein at the corral
gate. "You stay here and I'll drop in--casual like."

It seemed to Aaron King, waiting in the darkness, that his companion was gone for hours. In
reality, it was only a few minutes until the Ranger returned. He was walking quickly, and,
springing into the saddle he started the chestnut off at a sharp lope.

"The baby is better," he said. "Doctor was here this afternoon--started home about two o'clock.
That 'auto' must have gone on up the canyon. Morton knew nothing of the man on horseback who
went down. We'll cut across to Carleton's."

Presently, the Ranger swung the chestnut aside from the wagon road, to follow a narrow trail
through the chaparral. To the artist, the little path in the darkness was invisible, but he
gave his horse the rein and followed the shadowy form ahead. Three-quarters of an hour later,
they came out into the main road, again; near the Carleton ranch corral, a mile and a half
below the old camp in the sycamores behind the orchard of the deserted place.

It was now eleven o'clock and the ranch-house was dark. Without dismounting, Brian Oakley called,
"Hello, Henry!" There was no answer. Moving his horse close to the window of the room where
he knew the rancher slept, the Ranger tapped on the sash. "Henry, turn out; I want to see you;
it's Oakley."

A moment later the sash was raised and Carleton asked, "What is it, Brian? What's up?"

"Is Sibyl stopping with you folks, to-night?"

"Sibyl! Haven't seen her since they went down from their summer camp. What's the matter?"

Briefly, the Ranger explained the situation. The rancher interrupted only to greet the artist
with a "howdy, Mr. King," as the officer's words made known the identity of his companion.

When Brian Oakley had concluded, the rancher said, "I heard that 'auto' going up, and then
heard it going back down, again, about an hour ago. You missed it by turning off to Morton's.
If you'd come on straight up here you'd a met it."

"Did you see the man on horseback, going down, just before dusk?" asked the officer.

"Yes, but not near enough to know him. You don't suppose Sibyl would go up to her old home
do you, Brian?"

"She might, under the circumstances. Aaron and I will ride up there, on the chance."

"You'll stop in on your way back?" called the rancher, as the two horsemen moved away.

"Sure," answered the Ranger.

An hour later, they were back. They had found the old home under the giant sycamores, on the
edge of the little clearing, dark and untenanted.

Lights were shining, now, from the windows of the Carleton ranch-house. Down at the corral,
the twinkling gleam of a lantern bobbed here and there. As the Ranger and his companion drew
near, the lantern came rapidly up the hill. At the porch, they were met by Henry Carleton,
his two sons, and a ranch hand. As the four stood in the light of the window, and of the lantern
on the porch, listening to Brian Oakley's report, each held the bridle-reins of a saddle-horse.

"I figured that the chance of her being up there was so mighty slim that we'd better be ready
to ride when you got back," said the mountain ranchman. "What's your program, Brian?" Thus
simply he put himself and his household in command of the Ranger.

The officer turned to the eldest son, "Jack, you've got the fastest horse in the outfit. I
want you to go down to the Power-House and find out if any one there saw Sibyl anywhere on
the road. You see," he explained to the group, "we don't know for sure, yet, that she came
into the mountains. While I haven't a doubt but she did, we've got to know."

Jack Carleton was in the saddle as the Ranger finished The officer turned to him again. "Find
out what you can about that automobile and the man on horseback. We'll be at the Station when
you get back." There was a sharp clatter of iron-shod hoofs, and the rider disappeared in the
darkness of the night.

The other members of the little party rode more leisurely down the canyon road to the Ranger
Station. When they arrived at the house, Brian Oakley said, "Make yourselves easy, boys. I'm
going to write a little note." He went into the house where, as they sat on the porch, they
saw him through the window, his desk.

The Ranger had finished his letter and with the sealed official envelope in his hand, appeared
in the doorway when his messenger to the Power-House returned. Without dismounting, the rider
reined his horse up to the porch. "Good time, Jack," said the officer, quietly.

The young man answered, "One of the company men saw Sibyl. He was coming up with a load of
supplies and she passed him a mile below the Power-House just before dark. When he was opening
the gate, the automobile went by. It was too dark to see how many were in the machine. They
heard the 'auto' go down the canyon, again, later. No one noticed the man on horseback. Three
Company men will be up here at daybreak."

"Good boy," said Brian Oakley, again. And then, for a little, no sound save the soft clinking
of bit or bridle-chain in the darkness broke the hush that fell over the little group. With
faces turned toward their leader, they waited his word. The Ranger stood still, the long official
envelope in his hand. When he spoke, there was a ring in his voice that left in the minds of
his companions no doubt as to his view of the seriousness of the situation. "Milt," he said
sharply.

The youngest of the Carleton sons stepped forward. "Yes, sir."

"You will ride to Fairlands. It's half past one, now. You should be back between eight and
nine in the morning. Give this letter to the Sheriff and bring me his answer. Stop at Miss
Willard's and tell her what you know. You'll get something to eat there, while you're talking.
If I'm not at your house when you get back, feed your horse and wait."

"Yes, sir," came the answer, and an instant later the boy rider vanished into the night.

While the sound of the messenger's going still came to them, the Ranger spoke again. "Henry,
you'll ride to Morton's. Tell him to be at your place, with his crowd, by daylight. Then go
home and be ready with breakfast for the riders when they come in. We'll have to make your
place the center. It'll be hard on your wife and the girls, but Mrs. Morton will likely go
over to lend them a hand. I wish to God Mary was here."

"Never mind about my folks, Brian," returned the rancher as he mounted. "You know they'll be
on the job."

"You bet I know, Henry," came the answer as the mountaineer rode away. Then--"Bill, you'll
take every one between here and the head of the canyon. If there's a man shows up at Carleton's
later than an hour after sunup, we'll run him out of the country. Tom, you take the trail over
into the Santa Ana, circle around to the mouth of the canyon, and back up Clear Creek. Turn
out everybody. Jack, you'll take the Galena Valley neighborhood. Send in your men but don't
come back yourself until you've found that man who went down the canyon on horseback."

When the last rider was gone in the darkness, the Ranger said to the artist, "Come, Aaron,
you must get some rest. There's not a thing more that can be done, until daylight."

Aaron King protested. But, strong as he was, the unusual exertion of his hours in the saddle,
together with his racking anxiety, had told upon muscles and nerves. His face, pale and drawn,
gave the lie to his words that he was not tired.

"You must rest, man," said Brian Oakley, shortly. "There may be days of this ahead of us. You've
got to snatch every minute, when it's possible, to conserve your strength. You've already had
more than the rest of us. Jerk off your boots and lie down until I call you, even if you can't
sleep. Do as I say--I'm boss here."

As the artist obeyed, the Ranger continued, "I wrote the Sheriff all I knew--and some things
that I suspect. It's that automobile that sticks in my mind--that and some other things. The
machine must have left Fairlands before you did, unless it came over through the Galena Valley,
from some town on the railroad, up San Gorgonio Pass way--which isn't likely. If it did come
from Fairlands, it must have waited somewhere along the road, to enter the canyon after dark.
Do you think that any one else besides Myra Willard and Lagrange and you know that Sibyl started
up here?"

"I don't think so. The neighbor where she borrowed the horse didn't know where she was going."

"Who saw her last?"

"I think Mrs. Taine did."

The artist had already told the Ranger about the possible meeting of Mrs. Taine and Sibyl in
his studio.

"Hu-m-m," said the other.

"Mrs. Taine left for the East at four o'clock, you know," said the artist.

"Jim Rutlidge didn't go, you said." The Ranger spoke casually. Then, as if dismissing the matter,
he continued, "You get some rest now, Aaron. I'll take care of your horse and saddle a fresh
one for you. As soon as it's light, we'll ride. I'm going to find out where that automobile
went--and what for."

Chapter XXXIII

Beginning the Search

Aaron King lay with closed eyes, but not asleep. He was thinking, thinking, thinking In a weary
circle, his tired brain went round and round, finding no place to stop. The man on horseback,
the automobile, some accident that might have befallen the girl in her distraught state of
mind--he could find no place in the weary treadmill of conjecture to rest. While it was still
too dark to see, Brian Oakley called him. And the call was a relief.

As the artist pulled on his boots, the Ranger said, "It'll be light enough to see, by the time
we get above Carleton's. We know the automobile went that far anyway."

At the Carleton ranch, as they passed, they saw, by the lights, that the mountaineer's family
were already making ready for the gathering of the riders. A little beyond, they met two men
from the Company Head-Work, on their way to the meeting place. Soon, in the gray, early morning
light, the tracks of the automobile were clearly seen. Eagerly, they followed to the foot of
the Oak Knoll trail, where the machine had stopped and, turning around, had started back down
the canyon. With experienced care, Brian Oakley searched every inch of the ground in the vicinity.

Shaking his head, at last, as though forced to give up hope of finding any positive signs pointing
to the solution of the puzzle, the officer remounted, slowly. "I can't make it out," he said.
"The road is so dry and cut up with tracks, and the trail is so gravelly, that there are no
clear signs at all. Come, we better get back to Carleton's, and start the boys out. When Milt
returns from Fairlands he may know something."

