NAAMAN;
          O King,
  I am unlearned in the lore of priests;
  Yet well I know that there are hidden powers
  About us, working mortal weal and woe
  Beyond the force of mortal to control.
  And if these powers appear in love and truth,
  I think they must be gods, and worship them.
  But if their secret will is manifest
  In blind decrees of sheer omnipotence,
  That punish where no fault is found, and smite
  The poor with undeserved calamity,
  And pierce the undefended in the dark
  With arrows of injustice, and foredoom
  The innocent to burn in endless pain,
  I will not call this fierce almightiness
  Divine.  Though I must bear, with every man,
  The burden of my life ordained, I'll keep
  My soul unterrified, and tread the path
  Of truth and honour with a steady heart!
  But if I err in this; and if there be
  Divinities whose will is cruel, unjust,
  Capricious and supreme, I will forswear
  The favour of these gods, and take my part
  With man to suffer and for man to die.
  Have ye not heard, my lords?  The oracle
  Proclaims to me, to me alone, the doom
  Of vengeance if I lead the army out.
  "Conquered or conquering!"  I grip that chance!
  Damascus free, her foes all beaten back,
  The people saved from slavery, the King
  Upheld in honour on his ancient throne,--
  O what's the cost of this?  I'll gladly pay
  Whatever gods there be, whatever price
  They ask for this one victory.  Give me
  This gilded sign of shame to carry back;
  I'll shake it in the face of Asshur's king,
  And break it on his teeth.

BENHADAD: [Rising.]
  Then go, my never-beaten captain, go!
  And may the powers that hear thy solemn vow
  Forgive thy rashness for Damascus' sake,
  Prosper thy fighting, and remit thy pledge.

REZON: [Standing beside the altar.]
  The pledge, O King, this man must seal his pledge
  At Rimmon's altar.  He must take the cup
  Of soldier-sacrament, and bind himself
  By thrice-performed libation to abide
  The fate he has invoked.

NAAMAN: [Slowly.]
  And so I will.

[He comes down the steps, toward the altar, where REZON is filling the cup which TSARPI holds.
RUAHMAH throws herself before NAAMAN, clasping his knees.]

RUAHMAH: [Passionately and wildly.]
  My lord, I do beseech you, stay!  There's death
  Within that cup.  It is an offering
  To devils.  See, the wine blazes like fire,
  It flows like blood, it is a cursed cup,
  Fulfilled of treachery and hate.
  Dear master, noble master, touch it not!

NAAMAN:
  Poor maid, thy brain is still distraught.  Fear not
  But let me go!  Here, treat her tenderly!

[Gives her into the hands of SABALLIDIN.]

  Can harm befall me from the wife who bears
  My name?  I take the cup of fate from her.
  I greet the unknown powers; [Pours libation.]
  I will perform my vow; [Again.]
  I will abide my fate; [Again.]
  I pledge my life to keep Damascus free.

[He drains the cup, and lets it fall.]

CURTAIN.

ACT II

TIME: A week later

The fore-court of the House of Rimmon.  At the back the broad steps and double doors of the
shrine: above them the tower of the god, its summit invisible.  Enter various groups of citizens,
talking, laughing, shouting: RAKHAZ, HAZAEL, SHUMAKIM and others.

FIRST CITIZEN:
  Great news, glorious news, the Assyrians are beaten!

SECOND CITIZEN:
  Naaman is returning, crowned with victory.  Glory to our noble
  captain!

THIRD CITIZEN:
  No, he is killed.  I had it from one of the camp-followers who saw
  him fall at the head of the battle.  They are bringing his body to
  bury it with honour.  O sorrowful victory!

RAKHAZ;
  Peace, my good fellows, you are ignorant, you have not been rightly
  informed, I will misinform you.  The accounts of Naaman's death are
  overdrawn.  He was killed, but his life has been preserved.  One of
  his wounds was mortal, but the other three were curable, and by
  these the physicians have saved him.

SHUMAKIM: [Balancing himself before RAKHAZ in pretended admiration.]
  O wonderful!  Most admirable logic!  One mortal, and three curable,
  therefore he must recover as it were, by three to one.  Rakhaz, do
  you know that you are a marvelous man?

RAKHAZ:
  Yes, I know it, but I make no boast of my knowledge.

SHUMAKIM:
  Too modest, for in knowing this you know what is unknown to any other
  in Damascus!

[Enter, from the right, SABALLIDIN in armour: from the left, TSARPI with her attendants, among
whom is RUAHMAH.]

HAZAEL:
  Here is Saballidin, we'll question him;
  He was enflamed by Naaman's fiery words,
  And rode with him to battle.  Good, my lord,
  We hail you as a herald of the fight
  You helped to win.  Give us authentic news
  Of your great general!  Is he safe and well?
  When will he come?  Or will he come at all?

[All gather around him, listening eagerly.]

SABALLIDIN:
  He comes but now, returning from the field
  Where he hath gained a crown of deathless fame!
  Three times he led the charge; three times he fell
  Wounded, and the Assyrians beat us back.
  Yet every wound was but a spur to urge
  His valour onward.  In the last attack
  He rode before us as the crested wave
  That heads the flood; and lo, our enemies
  Were broken like a dam of river-reeds,
  Burst by the torrent, scattered, swept away!
  But look! the Assyrian king in wavering flight
  Is lodged like driftwood on a little hill,
  Encircled by his guard, and stands at bay.
  Then Naaman, followed hotly by a score
  Of whirlwind riders, hammers through the hedge
  Of spearmen, brandishing the golden yoke:
  "Take back this gift," he cries; and shatters it
  On Shalmaneser's helmet.  So the fight
  Dissolves in universal rout: the king,
  His chariots and his horsemen melt away;
  Our captain stands the master of the field,
  And saviour of Damascus!  Now he brings,
  First to the king, report of this great triumph.

[Shouts of joy and applause.]

RUAHMAH: [Coming close to SABALLIDIN,]
  But what of him who won it?  Fares he well?
  My mistress would receive some word of him.

SABALLIDIN:
  Hath she not heard?

RUAHMAH:
        But one brief message came:
  A tablet saying, "We have fought and conquered,"
  No word of his own person.  Fares he well?

SABALLIDIN:
  Alas, most ill!  For he is like a man
  Consumed by some strange sickness: wasted, wan,--
  His eyes are dimmed so that scarce can see;
  His ears are dulled; his fearless face is pale
  As one who walks to meet a certain doom
  Yet will not flinch.  It is most pitiful,--
  But you shall see.

RUAHMAH:
        Yea, we shall see a man
  Who took upon himself his country's burden, dared
  To hazard all to save the poor and helpless;
  A man who bears the wrath of evil powers
  Unknown, and pays the hero's sacrifice.

[Enter BENHADAD with courtiers.]

BENHADAD:
  Where is my faithful servant Naaman,
  The captain of my host?

SABALLIDIN:
        My lord, he comes.

[Trumpet sounds.  Enter company of soldiers in armour.  Then four soldiers bearing captured
standards of Asshur.  NAAMAN follows, very pale, armour dinted and stained; he is blind, and
guides himself by cords from the standards on each side, but walks firmly.  The doors of the
temple open slightly, and REZON appears at the top of the steps. NAAMAN lets the cords fall,
and gropes his way for a few paces.]

NAAMAN: [Kneeling]
        Where is my King?
  Master, the bearer of thy sword returns.
  The golden yoke thou gavest me I broke
  On him who sent it.  Asshur's Bull hath fled
  Dehorned.  The standards of his host are thine!
  Damascus is all thine, at peace, and free!

BENHADAD: [Holding out his arms.]
  Thou art a mighty man of valour!  Come,
  And let me fold thy courage to my heart.

REZON: [Lifting his rod.]
  Forbear, O King!  Stand back from him, all men!
  By the great name of Rimmon I proclaim
  This man a leper!  On his brow I see
  The death-white seal, the finger-print of doom!
  That tiny spot will spread, eating his flesh,
  Gnawing his fingers bone from bone, until
  The impious heart that dared defy the gods
  Dissolves in the slow death which now begins.
  Unclean! unclean!  Henceforward he is dead:
  No human hand shall touch him, and no home
  Of men shall give him shelter.  He shall walk
  Only with corpses of the selfsame death
  Down the long path to a forgotten tomb.
  Avoid, depart, I do adjure you all,
  Leave him to god,--the leper Naaman!

[All shrink back horrified.  REZON retires into the temple; the crowd melts away, wailing:
TSARPI is among the first to go, followed by her attendants, except RUAHMAH, who crouches,
with her face covered, not far from NAAMAN.]

BENHADAD: [Lingering and turning back.]
  Alas, my son!  O Naaman, my son!
  Why did I let thee go?  Thou art cast out
  Irrevocably from the city's life
  Which thou hast saved.  Who can resist the gods?
  I must obey the law, and touch thy hand
  Never again.  Yet none shall take from thee
  Thy glorious title, captain of my host!
  I will provide for thee, and thou shalt dwell
  With guards of honour in a house of mine
  Always.  Damascus never shall forget
  What thou hast done!  O miserable words
  Of crowned impotence!  O mockery of power
  Given to kings, who cannot even defend
  Their dearest from the secret wrath of heaven!
  Naaman, my son, my son!  [Exit.]

NAAMAN: [Slowly, passing his hand over his eyes, and looking up.]
          Am I alone
  With thee, inexorable one, whose pride
  Offended takes this horrible revenge?
  I must submit my mortal flesh to thee,
  Almighty, but I will not call thee god!
  Yet thou hast found the way to wound my soul
  Most deeply through the flesh; and I must find
  The way to let my wounded soul escape!

[Drawing his sword.]

  Come, my last friend, thou art more merciful
  Than Rimmon.  Why should I endure the doom
  He sends me?  Irretrievably cut off
  From all dear intercourse of human love,
  From all the tender touch of human hands,
  From all brave comradeship with brother-men,
  With eyes that see no faces through this dark,
  With ears that hear all voices far away,
  Why should I cling to misery, and grope
  My long, long way from pain to pain, alone?

RUAHMAH: [At his feet.]
  Nay, not alone, dear lord, for I am here;
  And I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee!

NAAMAN:
  What voice is that?  The silence of my tomb
  Is broken by a ray of music,--whose?

RUAHMAH: [Rising.]
  The one who loves thee best in all the world.

NAAMAN:
  Why that should be,--O dare I dream it true?
  Tsarpi, my wife?  Have I misjudged thy heart
  As cold and proud?  How nobly thou forgivest!
  Thou com'st to hold me from the last disgrace,--
  The coward's flight into the dark.  Go back
  Unstained, my sword!  Life is endurable
  While there is one alive on earth who loves us,

RUAHMAH:
  My lord,--my lord,--O listen!  You have erred,--
  You do mistake me now,--this dream--

NAAMAN:
  Ah, wake me not!  For I can conquer death
  Dreaming this dream.  Let me at last believe,
  Though gods are cruel, a woman can be kind.
  Grant me but this!  For see,--I ask so little,--
  Only to know that thou art faithful,--
  Only to lean upon the thought that thou,
  My wife, art near me, though I touch thee not,--
  O this will hold me up, though it be given
  From pity more than love.

RUAHMAH: [Trembling, and speaking slowly.]
        Not so, my lord!
  My pity is a stream; my pride of thee
  Is like the sea that doth engulf the stream;
  My love for thee is like the sovran moon
  That rules the sea.  The tides that fill my soul
  Flow unto thee and follow after thee;
  And where thou goest I will go; and where
  Thou diest I will die,--in the same hour.

[She lays her hand on his arm.  He draws back.]

NAAMAN:
  O touch me not!  Thou shall not share my doom.

RUAHMAH:
  Entreat me not to go.  I will obey
  In all but this; but rob me not of this,--
  The only boon that makes life worth the living,--
  To walk beside thee day by day, and keep
  Thy foot from stumbling; to prepare thy food
  When thou art hungry, music for thy rest,
  And cheerful words to comfort thy black hour;
  And so to lead thee ever on, and on,
  Through darkness, till we find the door of hope.

NAAMAN:
  What word is that?  The leper has no hope.

RUAHMAH:
  Dear lord, the mark upon thy brow is yet
  No broader than my little finger-nail.
  Thy force is not abated, and thy step
  Is firm.  Wilt thou surrender to the enemy
  Before thy strength is touched?  Why, let me put
  A drop of courage from my breast in thine.
  There is a hope for thee.  The captive maid
  Of Israel who dwelt within thy house
  Knew of a god very compassionate,
  Long-suffering, slow to anger, one who heals
  The sick, hath pity on the fatherless,
  And saves the poor and him who has no helper.
  His prophet dwells nigh to Samaria;
  And I have heard that he hath brought the dead
  To life again.  We'll go to him.  The King,
  If I beseech him, will appoint a guard
  Of thine own soldiers and Saballidin,
  Thy friend, to convoy us upon our journey.
  He'll give us royal letters to the king
  Of Israel to make our welcome sure;
  And we will take the open road, beneath
  The open sky, to-morrow, and go on
  Together till we find the door of hope.
  Come, come with me!

[She grasps his hand.]

NAAMAN: [Drawing back.]
  Thou must not touch me!

RUAHMAH: [Unclasping her girdle and putting the end in hand.]
        Take my girdle, then!

NAAMAN: [Kissing the clasp of the girdle.]
  I do begin to think there is a God,
  Since love on earth can work such miracles!

CURTAIN.

ACT III

TIME: A month later: dawn

SCENE I

NAAMAN'S tent, on high ground among the mountains near Samaria: the city below.  In the distance,
a wide and splendid landscape. SABALLIDIN and soldiers on guard below the tent.  Enter RUAHMAH
in hunter's dress, with a lyre slung from her shoulder.

RUAHMAH:
  Peace and good health to you, Saballidin.
  Good morrow to you all.  How fares my lord?

SABALLIDIN:
  The curtains of his tent are folded still:
  They have not moved since we returned, last night,
  And told him what befell us in the city.

RUAHMAH:
  Told him!  Why did you make report to him.
  And not to me?  Am I not captain here,
  Intrusted by the King's command with care
  Of Naaman's life, until he is restored?
  'Tis mine to know the first of good or ill
  In this adventure: mine to shield his heart
  From every arrow of adversity.
  What have you told him?  Speak!

SABALLIDIN:
        Lady, we feared
  To bring our news to you.  For when the king
  Of Israel had read our monarch's letter,
  He rent his clothes, and cried, "Am I a god,
  To kill and make alive, that I should heal
  A leper?  Ye have come with false pretence,
  Damascus seeks a quarrel with me.  Go!"
  But when we told our lord, he closed his tent,
  And there remains enfolded in his grief.
  I trust he sleeps; 't were kind to let him sleep!
  For now he doth forget his misery,
  And all the burden of his hopeless woe
  Is lifted from him by the gentle hand
  Of slumber.  Oh, to those bereft of hope
  Sleep is the only blessing left,--the last
  Asylum of the weary, the one sign
  Of pity from impenetrable heaven.
  Waking is strife: sleep is the truce of God!
  Ah, lady, wake him not.  The day will be
  Full long for him to suffer, and for us
  To turn our disappointed faces home
  On the long road by which we must return.

RUAHMAH:
  Return!  Who gave you that command?  Not I!
  The King made me the leader of this quest,
  And bound you all to follow me, because
  He knew I never would return without
  The thing for which he sent us.  I'll go on
  Day after day, unto the uttermost parts
  Of earth, if need be, and beyond the gates
  Of morning, till I find that which I seek,--
  New life for Naaman.  Are ye ashamed
  To have a woman lead you?  Then go back
  And tell the King, "This huntress went too far
  For us to follow; she pursues the trail
  Of hope alone, refusing to forsake
  The quarry: we grew weary of the chase;
  And so we left her and retraced our steps,
  Like faithless hounds, to sleep beside the fire."
  Did Naaman forsake his soldiers thus
  When you went forth to hunt the Assyrian Bull?
  Your manly courage is less durable
  Than woman's love, it seems.  Go, if you will,--
  Who bids me now farewell?

SOLDIERS:
        Not I, not I!

SABALLIDIN:
  Lady, lead on, we'll follow you for ever!

RUAHMAH:
  Why, now you speak like men!  Brought you no word
  Out of Samaria, except that cry
  Of impotence and fear from Israel's king?

SABALLIDIN:
  I do remember while he spoke with us
  A rustic messenger came in, and cried
  "Elisha saith, let Naaman come to me
  At Dothan, he shall surely know there is
  A God in Israel."

RUAHMAH:
        What said the King?

SABALLIDIN:
  He only shouted "Go!" more wildly yet,
  And rent his clothes again, as if he were
  Half-maddened by a coward's fear, and thought
  Only of how he might be rid of us.
  What comfort could there be for him, what hope
  For us, in the rude prophet's misty word?

RUAHMAH:
  It is the very word for which I prayed!
  My trust was not in princes; for the crown,
  The sceptre, and the purple robe are not
  Significant of vital power.  The man
  Who saves his brother-men is he who lives
  His life with Nature, takes deep hold on truth,
  And trusts in God.  A prophet's word is more
  Than all the kings on earth can speak.  How far
  Is Dothan?

SOLDIER:
        Lady, 'tis but three hours' ride
  Along the valley northward.

RUAHMAH:
        Near! so near?
  I had not thought to end my task so soon!
  Prepare yourselves with speed to take the road.
  I will awake my lord.

[Exeunt all but SABALLIDIN and RUAHMAH.  She goes toward the tent.]

SABALLIDIN;
  Ruahmah, stay!  [She turns back.]
  I've been your servant in this doubtful quest,
  Obedient, faithful, loyal to your will,--
  What have I earned by this?

RUAHMAH:
        The gratitude
  Of him we both desire to serve: your friend,--
  My master and my lord.

SABALLIDIN:
        No more than this?

RUAHMAH:
  Yes, if you will, take all the thanks my hands
  Can hold, my lips can speak.

SABALLIDIN:
        I would have more.

RUAHMAH:
  My friend, there's nothing more to give to you,
  My service to my lord is absolute.
  There's not a drop of blood within my veins
  But quickens at the very thought of him;
  And not a dream of mine but he doth stand
  Within its heart and make it bright.  No man
  To me is other than his friend or foe.
  You are his friend, and I believe you true!

SABALLIDIN:
  I have been true to him,--now, I am true
  To you.

RUAHMAH:
        And therefore doubly true to him!
  O let us match our loyalties, and strive
  Between us who shall win the higher crown!
  Men boast them of a friendship stronger far
  Than love of woman.  Prove it!  I'll not boast,
  But I'll contend with you on equal terms
  In this brave race: and if you win the prize
  I'll hold you next to him: and if I win
  He'll hold you next to me; and either way
  We'll not be far apart.  Do you accept
  My challenge?

SABALLIDIN:
        Yes!  For you enforce my heart
  By honour to resign its great desire,
  And love itself to offer sacrifice
  Of all disloyal dreams on its own altar.
  Yet love remains; therefore I pray you, think
  How surely you must lose in our contention.
  For I am known to Naaman: but you
  He blindly takes for Tsarpi.  'Tis to her
  He gives his gratitude: the praise you win
  Endears her name.

RUAHMAH:
        Her name?  Why, what is that?
  A name is but an empty shell, a mask
  That does not change the features of the face
  Beneath it.  Can a name rejoice, or weep,
  Or hope?  Can it be moved by tenderness
  To daily services of love, or feel the warmth
  Of dear companionship?  How many things
  We call by names that have no meaning: kings
  That cannot rule; and gods that are not good;
  And wives that do not love!  It matters not
  What syllables he utters when he calls,
  'Tis I who come,--'tis I who minister
  Unto my lord, and mine the living heart
  That feels the comfort of his confidence,
  The thrill of gladness when he speaks to me,--
  I do not hear the name!

SABALLIDIN:
        And yet, be sure
  There's danger in this error,--and no gain!

RUAHMAH:
  I seek no gain; I only tread the path
  Marked for me daily by the hand of love.
  And if his blindness spared my lord one pang
  Of sorrow in his black, forsaken hour,--
  And if this error makes his burdened heart
  More quiet, and his shadowed way less dark,
  Whom do I rob?  Not her who chose to stay
  At ease in Rimmon's House!  Surely not him!
  Only myself?  And that enriches me.
  Why trouble we the master?  Let it go,--
  To-morrow he must know the truth,--and then
  He shall dispose of me e'en as he will!

SABALLIDIN:
  To-morrow?

RUAHMAH:
        Yes, for I will tarry here,
  While you conduct him to Elisha's house
  To find the promised healing.  I forebode
  A sudden danger from the craven king
  Of Israel, or else a secret ambush
  From those who hate us in Damascus.  Go,
  But leave me twenty men: this mountain-pass
  Protects the road behind you.  Make my lord
  Obey the prophet's word, whatever he commands,
  And come again in peace.  Farewell!

[Exit SABALLIDIN.  RUAHMAH goes toward the tent, then pauses and turns back.  She takes her
lyre and sings.]

  SONG.

  Above the edge of dark appear the lances of the sun;
  Along the mountain-ridges clear his rosy heralds run;
    The vapours down the valley go
    Like broken armies, dark and low.
    Look up, my heart, from every hill
    In folds of rose and daffodil
    The sunrise banners flow.

  O fly away on silent wing, ye boding owls of night!
  O welcome little birds that sing the coming-in of light!
    For new, and new, and ever-new,
    The golden bud within the blue;
    And every morning seems to say:
    "There's something happy on the way,
    And God sends love to you!"

NAAMAN: [Appearing at the entrance of his tent.]
  O let me ever wake to music!  For the soul
  Returns most gently then, and finds its way
  By the soft, winding clue of melody,
  Out of the dusky labyrinth of sleep,
  Into the light.  My body feels the sun
  Though I behold naught that his rays reveal.
  Come, thou who art my daydawn and my sight,
  Sweet eyes, come close, and make the sunrise mine!

RUAHMAH: [Coming near.]
  A fairer day, dear lord, was never born
  In Paradise!  The sapphire cup of heaven
  Is filled with golden wine: the earth, adorned
  With jewel-drops of dew, unveils her face
  A joyful bride, in welcome to her king.
  And look!  He leaps upon the Eastern hills
  All ruddy fire, and claims her with a kiss.
  Yonder the snowy peaks of Hermon float
  Unmoving as a wind-dropt cloud.  The gulf
  Of Jordan, filled with violet haze, conceals
  The rivers winding trail with wreaths of mist.
  Below us, marble-crowned Samaria thrones
  Upon her emerald hill amid the Vale
  Of Barley, while the plains to northward change
  Their colour like the shimmering necks of doves.
  The lark springs up, with morning on her wings,
  To climb her singing stairway in the blue,
  And all the fields are sprinkled with her joy!

NAAMAN:
  Thy voice is magical: thy words are visions!
  I must content myself with them, for now
  My only hope is lost: Samaria's king
  Rejects our monarch's message,--hast thou heard?
  "Am I a god that I should cure a leper?"
  He sends me home unhealed, with angry words,
  Back to Damascus and the lingering death.

RUAHMAH:
  What matter where he sends?  No god is he
  To slay or make alive.  Elisha bids
  You come to him at Dothan, there to learn
  There is a God in Israel.

NAAMAN:
        I fear
  That I am grown mistrustful of all gods;
  Their secret counsels are implacable.

RUAHMAH:
  Fear not!  There's One who rules in righteousness
  High over all.

NAAMAN:
        What knowest thou of Him?

RUAHMAH:
  Oh, I have heard,--the maid of Israel,--
  Rememberest thou?  She often said her God
  Was merciful and kind, and slow to wrath,
  And plenteous in forgiveness, pitying us
  Like as a father pitieth his children.

NAAMAN:
  If there were such a God, I'd worship Him
  For ever!

RUAHMAH:
        Then make haste to hear the word
  His prophet promises to speak to thee!
  Obey it, my dear lord, and thou shalt lose
  This curse that burdens thee.  This tiny spot
  Of white that mars the beauty of thy brow
  Shall melt like snow; thine eyes be filled with light.
  Thou wilt not need my leading any more,--
  Nor me,--for thou wilt see me, all unveiled,--
  I tremble at the thought.

NAAMAN:
        Why, what is this?
  Why shouldst thou tremble?  Art thou not mine own?

RUAHMAH: [Turning to him.]
  Surely I am!  But take me, take me now!
  For I belong to thee in body and soul;
  The very pulses of my heart are thine.
  Wilt thou not feel how tenderly they beat?
  Wilt thou not lie like myrrh between my breasts
  And satisfy thy lonely lips with love?
  Thou art opprest, and I would comfort thee
  While yet thy sorrow weighs upon thy life.
  To-morrow?  No, to-day!  The crown of love
  Is sacrifice; I have not given thee
  Enough!  Ah, fold me in thine arms,--take all!

[She takes his hands and puts them around her neck; he holds her from him, with one hand on
her shoulder, the other behind her head.]

NAAMAN:
  Thou art too dear to injure with a kiss,--
  Too dear for me to stain thy purity,
  Or leave one touch upon thee to regret!
  How should I take a gift may bankrupt thee,
  Or drain the fragrant chalice of thy love
  With lips that may be fatal?  Tempt me not
  To sweet dishonour; strengthen me to wait
  Until thy prophecy is all fulfilled,
  And I can claim thee with a joyful heart.

RUAHMAH: [Turning away.]
  Thou wilt not need me then,--and I shall be
  No more than the faint echo of a song
  Heard half asleep.  We shall go back to where
  We stood before this journey.

NAAMAN:
        Never again!
  For thou art changed by some deep miracle.
  The flower of womanhood hath bloomed in thee,--
  Art thou not changed?

RUAHMAH:
        Yea, I am changed,--and changed
  Again,--bewildered,--till there's nothing clear
  To me but this: I am the instrument
  In an Almighty hand to rescue thee
  From death.  This will I do,--and afterward--

[A trumpet is blown, without.]

  Hearken, the trumpet sounds, the chariot waits.
  Away, dear lord, follow the road to light!

SCENE II. [*]

[*] Note that this scene is not intended to be put upon the stage, the effect of the action
upon the drama being given at the beginning of Act IV.

The house of Elisha, upon a terraced hillside.  A low stone cottage with vine-trellises and
flowers; a flight of steps, at the foot of which is NAAMAN'S chariot.  He is standing in it;
SABALLIDIN beside it. Two soldiers come down the steps.

FIRST SOLDIER:
  We have delivered my lord's greeting and his message.

SECOND SOLDIER:
  Yes, and near lost our noses in the doing of it!  For the servant
  slammed the door in our faces.  A most unmannerly reception!

