In the southern hemisphere the lands are of less extent and, on the whole, less studied than
in the northern realm. Here and there where glaciers exist, as in New Zealand and in the southern
part of South America, observant travellers have noticed that these ice fields have recently
shrunk away. Whether the time of greatest extension and of retreat coincided with that of the
ice sheets in the north is not yet determined; the problem, indeed, is one of some difficulty,
and may long remain undecided. It seems, however, probable that the glaciers of the southern
hemisphere, like those in the north, are in process of retreat. If this be true, then their
time of greatest extension was probably the same as that of the ice sheets about the southern
pole. From certain imperfect reports which we have concerning evidences of glaciation in Central
America and in the Andean district in the northern part of South America, it seems possible
that at one time the upland ice along the Cordilleran chain existed from point to point along
that system of elevations, so that the widest interval between the fields of permanent snow
with their attendant glaciers did not much exceed a thousand miles.

Observing the present gradual retreat of those ice remnants which remain mere shreds and patches
of the ancient fields, it seems at first sight likely that the extension and recession of the
great glaciers took place with exceeding slowness. Measured in terms of human life, in the
manner in which we gauge matters of man's history, this process was doubtless slow. There are
reasons, however, to believe that the coming and going were, in a geological sense, swift;
they may have, indeed, been for a part of the time of startling rapidity. Going back to the
time of geological yesterday, before the ice began its development in the northern hemisphere,
all the evidence we can find appears to indicate a temperate climate extending far toward the
north pole. The Miocene deposits found within twelve degrees, or a little more than seven hundred
miles, of the north pole, and fairly within the realm of lowest temperature which now exists
on the earth, show by the plant remains which they contain that the conditions permitted the
growth of forests, the plants having a tolerably close resemblance to those which now freely
develop in the southern portion of the Mississippi Valley. Among them there are species which
had the habit of retaining their broad, rather soft leaves throughout the winter season. The
climate appears, in a word, to have been one where the mean annual temperature must have been
thirty degrees or more higher than the present average of that realm. Although such conditions
near the sea level are not inconsistent with the supposition that glaciers existed in the higher
mountains of the north, they clearly deny the possibility of the realm being occupied by continental
glaciers.

Although the Pliocene deposits formed in high latitudes have to a great extent been swept away
by the subsequent glacial wearing, they indicate by their fossils a climatal change in the
direction of greater cold. We trace this change, though obscurely, in a progressive manner
to a point where the records are interrupted, and the next interpretable indication we have
is that the ice sheet had extended to somewhere near the limits which we have noted. We are
then driven to seek what we can concerning the sojourn of the ice on the land by the amount
of wearing which it has inflicted upon the areas which it occupied. This evidence has a certain,
though, as we shall see, a limited value.

When the students of glacial action first began the great task of interpreting these records,
they were led to suppose that the amount of rock cutting which was done by the ice was very
great. Observing what goes on, in the manner we have noted, beneath a valley glacier such as
those of Switzerland, they saw that the ice work went on rapidly, and concluded that if the
ice remained long at work in a region it must do a vast deal of erosion. They were right in
a part of their premises, but, as we shall see, probably in another part wrong. Looking carefully
over the field where the ice has operated, we note that, though at first sight the area appears
to have lost all trace of its preglacial river topography, this aspect is due mainly to the
irregular way in which the glacial waste is laid down. Close study shows us that we may generally
trace the old stream valleys down to those which were no larger than brooks. It is true that
these channels are generally and in many places almost altogether filled in with rubbish, but
a close study of the question has convinced the writer, and this against a previous view, that
the amount of erosion in New England and Canada, where the work was probably as great as anywhere,
has not on the average exceeded a hundred feet, and probably was much less than that amount.

Even in the region north of Lake Ontario, over which the ice was deep and remained for a long
time, the amount of erosion is singularly small. Thus north of Kingston the little valleys
in the limestone rocks which were cut by the preglacial streams, though somewhat encumbered
with drift, remain almost as distinct as they are on similar strata in central Kentucky, well
south of the field which the ice occupied. In fact, the ice sheet appears to have done the
greatest part of its work and to have affected the surface most in the belt of country a few
hundred miles in width around the edges of the sheet. It was to be expected that in a continental
glacier, as in those of mountain valleys, the most of the débris should be accumulated about
the margin where the materials dropped from the ice. But why the cutting action should be greatest
in that marginal field is not at first sight clear. To explain this and other features as best
we may, we shall now consider the probable history of the great ice march in advance and retreat,
and then take up the conditions which brought about its development and its disappearance.

Ice is in many ways the most remarkable substance with which the physicist has to deal, and
among its eminent peculiarities is that it expands in freezing, while the rule is that substances
contract in passing from the fluid to the solid state. On this account frozen water acts in
a unique manner when subjected to pressure. For each additional atmosphere of pressure--a weight
amounting to about fifteen pounds to the square inch--the temperature at which the ice will
melt is lowered to the amount of sixteen thousandths of a degree centigrade. If we take a piece
of ice at the temperature of freezing and put upon it a sufficient weight, we inevitably bring
about a small amount of melting. Where we can examine the mass under favourable conditions,
we can see the fluid gather along the lines of the crystals or other bits of which the ice
is composed. We readily note this action by bringing two pieces of ice together with a slight
pressure; when the pressure is removed, they will adhere. The adhesion is brought about not
by any stickiness of the materials, for the substance has no such property. It is accomplished
by melting along the line of contact, which forms a film of water, that at once refreezes when
the pressure is withdrawn. When a firm snowball is made by even pressing snow, innumerable
similar adhesions grow up in the manner described. The fact is that, given ice at the temperature
at which it ordinarily forms, pressure upon it will necessarily develop melting.

The consequences of pressure melting as above described are in glaciers extremely complicated.
Because the ice is built into the glacier at a temperature considerably below the freezing
point, it requires a great thickness of the mass before the superincumbent weight is sufficient
to bring about melting in its lower parts. If we knew the height at which a thermometer would
have stood in the surface ice of the ancient glacier which covered the northern part of North
America, we could with some accuracy compute how thick it must have been before the effect
of pressure alone would have brought about melting; but even then we should have to reckon
the temperature derived from the grinding of the ice over the floor and the crushing of rocks
there effected, as well as the heat which is constantly though slowly coming forth from the
earth's interior. The result is that we can only say that at some depth, probably less than
a mile, the slowly accumulating ice would acquire such a temperature that, subjected to the
weight above it, the material next the bottom would become molten, or at least converted into
a sludgelike state, in which it could not rub against the bottom, or move stones in the manner
of ordinary glaciers.

As fast as the ice assumed this liquid or softened state, it would be squeezed out toward the
region where, because of the thinning of the glacier, it would enter a field where pressure
melting did not occur. It would then resume the solid state, and thence journey to the margin
of the ice in the ordinary manner. We thus can imagine how such a glacier as occupied the northern
part of this continent could have moved from the central parts toward its periphery, as we
can not do if we assume that the glacier everywhere lay upon the bed rock. There is no slope
from Lake Erie to the Ohio River at Cincinnati. Knowing that the ice moved down this line,
there are but two methods of accounting for its motion: either the slope of the upper surface
to the northward was so steep that the mass would have been thus urged down, the upper parts
dragging the bottom along with them, or the ice sheet for the greater part of its extent rested
upon pressure-molten water, or sludge ice, which was easily squeezed out toward the front.
The first supposition appears inadmissible, for the reason that the ice would have to be many
miles deep at Hudson Bay in order that its upper surface should have slope enough to overcome
the rigidity of the material and bring about the movement. We know that any such depth is not
supposable.

The recent studies in Greenland supply us with strong corroborative evidence for the support
of the view which is here urged. The wide central field of that area, where the ice has an
exceeding slight declivity, and is unruptured by crevices, can not be explained except on the
supposition that it rests on pressure-molten water. The thinner section next the shore, where
the glacier is broken up by those irregular movements which its wrestle with the bottom inevitably
induces, shows that there it is in contact with the bed rock, for it behaves exactly as do
the valley glaciers of like thickness.

The view above suggested as to the condition of continental glaciers enables us to explain
not only their movements, but the relatively slight amount of wearing which they brought about
on the lands they occupied. Beginning to develop in mountain regions, or near the poles on
the lowlands, these sheets, as soon as they attained the thickness where the ice at their bottom
became molten, would rapidly advance for great distances until they attained districts where
the melting exceeded the supply of frozen material. In this excursion only the marginal portion
of the glacier would do erosive work. This would evidently be continued for the greatest amount
of time near the front or outer rim of the ice field, for there, we may presume, that for the
longest time the cutting rim would rest upon the bed rock of the country. As the ice receded,
this rim would fall back; thus in the retreat as in the advance the whole of the field would
be subjected to a certain amount of erosion. On this supposition we should expect to find that
the front of a continental glacier, fed with pressure-molten water from all its interior district,
which became converted into ice, would attain much warmer regions than the valley streams,
where all the flow took place in the state of ice, and, furthermore, that the speed of the
going on the margin would be much more rapid than in the Alpine streams. These suppositions
are well borne out by the study of existing continental ice sheets, which move with singular
rapidity at their fronts, and by the ancient glaciers, which evidently extended into rather
warm fields. Thus, when the ice front lay at the site of Cincinnati, at six hundred feet above
the sea, there were no glaciers in the mountains of North Carolina, though those rise more
than five thousand feet higher in the air, and are less than two hundred miles farther south.
It is therefore evident that the continental glacier at this time pushed southward into a comparatively
warm country in a way that no stream moving in the manner of a valley glacier could possibly
have done.

The continental glaciers manage in many cases to convey detritus from a great distance. Thus,
when the ice sheet advanced southwardly from the regions north of the Great Lakes, they conveyed
quantities of the débris from that section as far south as the Ohio River. In part this rubbish
was dragged forward by the ice as the sheet advanced; in part it was urged onward by the streams
of liquid water formed by the ordinary process of ice melting. Such subglacial rivers appear
to have been formed along the margins of all the great glaciers. We can sometimes trace their
course by the excavation which they have made, but more commonly by the long ridges of stratified
sand and gravel which were packed into the caverns excavated by these subglacial rivers, which
are known to glacialists as eskers, or as serpent kames. In many cases we can trace where these
streams flowed up stream in the old river valleys until they discharged over their head waters.
Thus in the valley of the Genesee, which now flows from Pennsylvania, where it heads against
the tributaries of the Ohio and Susquehanna, to Lake Ontario, there was during the Glacial
epoch a considerable river which discharged its waters into those of the Ohio and the Susquehanna
over the falls at the head of its course.

The effect of widespread glacial action on a country such as North America appears to have
been, in the first place, to disturb the attitude of the land by bearing down portions of its
surface, a process which led to the uprising of other parts which lay beyond the realm of the
ice. Within the field of glaciation, so far as the ice rested bodily on the surface, the rocks
were rapidly worn away. A great deal of the débris was ground to fine powder, and went far
with the waters of the under-running streams. A large part was entangled in the ice, and moved
forward toward the front of the glacier, where it was either dropped at the margin or, during
the recession of the glacier, was laid upon the surface as the ice melted away. The result
of this erosion and transportation has been to change the conditions of the surface both as
regards soil and drainage. As the reader has doubtless perceived, ordinary soil is, outside
of the river valleys, derived from the rock beneath where it lies. In glaciated districts the
material is commonly brought from a considerable distance, often from miles away. These ice-made
soils are rarely very fertile, but they commonly have a great endurance for tillage, and this
for the reason that the earth is refreshed by the decay of the pebbles which they contain.
Moreover, while the tillable earth of other regions usually has a limited depth, verging downward
into the semisoil or subsoil which represent the little changed bed rocks, glacial deposits
can generally be ploughed as deeply as may prove desirable.

The drainage of a country recently affected by glaciers is always imperfect. Owing to the irregular
erosion of the bed rocks, and to the yet more irregular deposition of the detritus, there are
very numerous lakes which are only slowly filled up or by erosion provided with drainage channels.
Though several thousand years have passed by since the ice disappeared from North America,
the greater part of the area of these fresh-water basins remains, the greater number of them,
mostly those of small size, have become closed.

Where an ice stream descends into the sea or into a large lake, the depth of which is about
as great as the ice is thick, the relative lightness of the ice tends to make it float, and
it shortly breaks off from the parent mass, forming an iceberg. Where, as is generally the
case in those glaciers which enter the ocean, a current sweeps by the place where the berg
is formed, it may enter upon a journey which may carry the mass thousands of miles from its
origin. The bergs separated from the Greenland glaciers, and from those about the south pole,
are often of very great size; sometimes, indeed, they are some thousand feet in thickness,
and have a length of several miles. It often happens that these bergs are formed of ice, which
contains in its lower part a large amount of rock débris. As the submerged portion of the glacier
melts in the sea water, these stones are gradually dropped to the bottom, so that the cargo
of one berg may be strewed along a line many hundred miles in length. It occasionally happens
that the ice mass melts more slowly in those parts which are in the air than in its under-water
portions. It thus becomes top-heavy and overturns, in which case such stony matter as remains
attains a position where it may be conveyed for a greater distance than if the glacier were
not capsized. It is likely, indeed, that now and then fragments of rock from Greenland are
dropped on the ocean floor in the part of the Atlantic which is traversed by steamers between
our Atlantic ports and Great Britain.

Except for the risks which they bring to navigators, icebergs have no considerable importance.
It is true they somewhat affect the temperature of sea and air, and they also serve to convey
fragments of stone far out to sea in a way that no other agent can effect; but, on the whole,
their influence on the conditions of the earth is inconsiderable.

Icebergs in certain cases afford interesting indices as to the motion of oceanic currents,
which, though moving swiftly at a depth below the surface, do not manifest themselves on the
plain of the sea. Thus in the region about Greenland, particularly in Davis Strait, bergs have
been seen forcing their way southward at considerable speed through ordinary surface ice, which
was either at rest or moving in the opposite direction. The train of these bergs, which moves
upward from the south polar continent, west of Patagonia, indicates also in a very emphatic
way the existence of a very strong northward-setting current in that part of the ocean.

                  *       *       *       *       *

We have now to consider the causes which could bring about such great extensions of the ice
sheet as occurred in the last Glacial period. Here again we are upon the confines of geological
knowledge, and in a field where there are no well-cleared ways for the understanding. In facing
this problem, we should first note that those who are of the opinion that a Glacial period
means a very cold climate in the regions where the ice attained its extension are probably
in error. Natural as it may seem to look for exceeding cold as the cause of glaciation, the
facts show us that we can not hold this view. In Siberia and in the parts of North America
bordering on the Arctic Sea the average cold is so intense that the ground is permanently frozen--as
it is, for instance, in the Klondike district--to the depth of hundreds of feet, only the surface
thawing out during the warm summers. All this region is cold enough for glaciers, but there
is not sufficient snowfall to maintain them. On the other hand, in Greenland, and in a less
though conspicuous degree in Scandinavia, where the waters of the North Atlantic somewhat diminish
the rigour of the cold, and at the same time bring about a more abundant snowfall, the two
actions being intimately related, we have very extensive glaciers. Such facts, which could
be very much extended, make it clear that the climate of glacial periods must have been characterized
by a great snowfall, and not by the most intense cold.

It is evident that what would be necessary again to envelop the boreal parts of North America
with a glacial sheet would not be a considerable decrease of heat, but an increase in the winter's
contribution of frozen water. Even if the heat released by this snowfall elevated the average
temperature of the winter, as it doubtless would in a considerable measure, it would not melt
off the snow. That snowfall tends to warm the air by setting free the heat which was engaged
in keeping the water in a state of vapour is familiarly shown by the warming which attends
an ordinary snowstorm. Even if the fall begin with a temperature of about 0° Fahr., the air
is pretty sure to rise to near the freezing point.

It is evident that no great change of temperature is required in order to bring about a very
considerable increase in the amount of snowfall. In the ordinary succession of seasons we often
note the occurrence of winters during which the precipitation of snow is much above the average,
though it can not be explained by a considerable climatal change. We have to account for these
departures from the normal weather by supposing that the atmospheric currents bring in more
than the usual amount of moisture from the sea during the period when great falls of snow occur.
In fact, in explaining variations in the humidity of the land, whether those of a constant
nature or those that are to be termed accidental, we have always to look to those features
which determine the importation of vapour from the great field of the ocean where it enters
the air. We should furthermore note that these peculiarities of climate are dependent upon
rather slight geographic accidents. Thus the snowfall of northern Europe, which serves to maintain
the glaciation of that region, and, curiously enough, in some measure its general warmth, depends
upon the movement of the Gulf Stream from the tropics to high latitudes. If by any geographical
change, such as would occur if Central America were lowered so as to make a free passage for
its waters to the westward, the glaciers of Greenland and of Scandinavia would disappear, and
at the same time the temperature of those would be greatly lowered. Thus the most evident cause
of glaciation must be sought in those alterations of the land which affect the movement of
the oceanic currents.

Applying this principle to the northern hemisphere, we can in a way imagine a change which
would probably bring about a return of such an ice period as that from which the boreal realm
is now escaping. Let us suppose that the region of not very high land about Bering Strait should
sink down so as to afford the Kuro Siwo, or North Pacific equivalent of our Gulf Stream, an
opportunity to enter the Arctic Sea with something like the freedom with which the North Atlantic
current is allowed to penetrate to high latitudes. It seems likely that this Pacific current,
which in volume and warmth is comparable to that of the Atlantic, would so far elevate the
temperature of the arctic waters that their wide field would be the seat of a great evaporation.
Noting once again the fact that the Greenland glaciers, as well as those of Norway, are supplied
from seas warmed by the Gulf Stream, we should expect the result of this change would be to
develop similar ice fields on all the lands near that ocean.

Applying the data gathered by Dr. Croll for the Gulf Stream, it seems likely that the average
annual temperature induced in the Arctic Sea by the free entrance of the Japan current would
be between 20° and 30° Fahr. This would convert this wide realm of waters into a field of great
evaporation, vastly increasing the annual precipitation. It seems also certain that the greater
part of this precipitation would be in the form of snow. It appears to the writer that this
cause alone may be sufficient to account for the last Glacial period in the northern hemisphere.
As to the probability that the region about Bering Strait may have been lowered in the manner
required by this view, it may be said that recent studies on the region about Mount St. Elias
show that during or just after the ice epoch the shores in that portion of Alaska were at least
four thousand feet lower than at present. As this is but a little way from the land which we
should have to suppose to be lowered in order to admit the Japan current, we could fairly conclude
that the required change occurred. As for the cause of the land movement, geologists are still
in doubt. They know, however, that the attitudes of the land are exceedingly unstable, and
that the shores rarely for any considerable time maintain their position. It is probable that
these swayings of the earth's surface are due to ever-changing combinations of the weight in
different parts of the crust and the strains arising from the contraction of its inner parts.

In the larger operations of Nature the effects which we behold, however simple, are rarely
the products of a single cause. In fact, there are few actions so limited that they can fairly
be referred to one influence. It is therefore proper to state that there are many other actions
besides those above noted which probably enter into those complicated equations which determine
the climatal conditions of the earth. To have these would carry us into difficult and speculative
inquiries.

As before remarked, all the regions which have been subjected to glaciation are still each
year brought temporarily into the glacial state. This fact serves to show us that the changes
necessary to produce great ice sheets are not necessarily of a startling nature, however great
the consequences may be. Assuming, then, that relatively slight alterations of climate may
cause the ice sheet to come and go, we may say that all the influences which have been suggested
by the students of glaciation, and various other slighter causes which can not be here noted,
may have co-operated to produce the peculiar result. In this equation geographic change has
affected the course of the ocean currents, and has probably been the most influential, or at
least the commonest, cause to which we must attribute the extension of ice sheets. Next, alterations
of the solar heat may be looked to as a change-bringing action; unfortunately, however, we
have no direct evidence that this is an efficient cause. Thirdly, the variations in the eccentricity
of the earth's orbit, combined with the precession of the equinoxes and the rotation of the
apsides, may be regarded as operative. The last of all, changes in the constitution of the
atmosphere, have to be taken into account. To these must be added, as before remarked, many
less important actions which influence this marvellously delicate machine, the work of which
is expressed in the phenomena assembled under the name of climate.

Evidence is slowly accumulating which serves to show that glacial periods of greater or less
importance have been of frequent occurrence at all stages in the history of the earth of which
we have a distinct record. As these accidents write their history upon the ground alone, and
in a way impermanently, it is difficult to trace the ice times of ancient geological periods.
The scratches on the bed rocks, and the accumulations of detritus formed as the ice disappeared,
have alike been worn away by the agents of decay. Nevertheless, we can trace here and there
in the older strata accumulations of pebbly matter often containing large boulders, which clearly
were shaped and brought together by glacial action. These are found in some instances far south
of the region occupied by the glaciers during the last ice epoch. They occur in rocks of the
Cambrian or Silurian age in eastern Tennessee and western North Carolina; they are also found
in India beyond the limits to which glaciers have attained in modern times.

In closing this inadequate account of glacial action, a story which for its complete telling
would require many volumes, it is well for the reader to consider once again how slight are
the changes of climate which may alternately withdraw large parts of the land from the uses
of life, and again quickly restore the fields to the service of plants and animals. He may
well imagine that these changes, by driving living creatures to and fro, profoundly affect
the history of their development. This matter will be dealt with in the volume concerning the
history of organic beings.

When the ice went off from the northern part of this continent, the surface of the country,
which had been borne down by the weight of the glacier, still remained depressed to a considerable
depth below the level of the sea, the depression varying from somewhere about one hundred feet
in southern New England to a thousand feet or more in high latitudes. Over this region, which
lay beneath the level of the sea, the glacier, when it became thin enough to float, was doubtless
broken up into icebergs, in the manner which we now behold along the coast of Greenland. Where
the shore was swept by a strong current, these bergs doubtless drifted away; but along the
most of the coast line they appear to have lain thickly grouped next the shores, gradually
delivering their loads of stones and finer débris to the bottom. These masses of floating ice
in many cases seem to have prevented the sea waves from attaining the shore, and thus hindered
the formation of those beaches which in their present elevated condition enable us to interpret
the old position of the sea along coast lines which have been recently elevated. Here and there,
however, from New Jersey to Greenland, we find bits of these ancient shores which clearly tell
the story of that down-sinking of the land beneath the burden of the ice which is such an instructive
feature in the history of that period.

                          CHAPTER VII.

                  THE WORK OF UNDERGROUND WATER.

We have already noted two means by which water finds its way underground. The simplest and
largest method by which this action is effected is by building in the fluid as the grains of
the rock are laid down on the floors of seas or lakes. The water thus imprisoned is firmly
inclosed in the interstices of the stone, it in time takes up into its mass a certain amount
of the mineral materials which are contained in the deep-buried rocks. The other portion of
the ground water--that with which we are now to be specially concerned--arises from the rain
which descends into the crevices of the earth; it is therefore peculiar to the lands. For convenience
we shall term the original embedded fluid rock water, and that which originates from the rain
crevice water, the two forming the mass of the earth water.

The crevice water of the earth, although forming at no time more than a very small fraction
of the hidden fluid, is an exceedingly potent geological agent, doing work which, though unseen,
yet affords the very foundations on which rest the life alike of land and sea. When this water
enters the earth, though it is purified of all mineral materials, it has already begun to acquire
a share of a gaseous substance, carbonic acid, or, as chemists now term it, carbon dioxide,
which enables the fluid to begin its rôle of marvellous activities. In its descent as rain,
probably even before it was gathered in drops in the cloud realm, the water absorbs a certain
portion of this gas from the atmosphere. Entering the realm of the soil, where the decaying
organic matter plentifully gives forth carbon dioxide, a further store of the gas is acquired.
At the ordinary pressure of the air, water may take in many times its bulk of the gas.

The immediate effect of carbonic acid when it is absorbed by water is greatly to increase the
capacity which that fluid has for taking mineral matters into solution. When charged with this
gas, in the measure in which it may be in the soil, water is able to dissolve about fifty times
as much limestone as it can in its perfectly pure form take up. A familiar instance of this
peculiar capacity which the gas gives may often be seen where the water from a soda-water fountain
drips upon the marble slab beneath. In a few years this slab will be considerably corroded,
though pure water would in the same time have had no effect upon it.

The first and by far the most important effect of crevice water is exercised upon the soil,
which is at once the product of this action, and the laboratory where the larger part of the
work is done. Penetrating between the grains of the detrital covering, held in large quantities
in the coating, and continually in slow motion, the gas-charged water takes a host of substances
into solution, and brings them into a condition where they may react upon each other in the
chemical manner. These materials are constantly being offered to the roots of plants and brought
in contact with the underlying rock which has not passed into the state of soil. The changes
induced in this stony matter lead to its breaking up, or at least to its softening to the point
where the roots can penetrate it and complete its destruction. Thus it comes about that the
water which to a great extent divides the rocks into the state of soil, which is continually
wearing away the material on the surface, or leaching it out through the springs, is also at
work in restoring the layer from beneath.

The greater part of the water which enters the soil does not penetrate to any great depth in
the underlying rocks, but finds its way to the surface after no long journey in the form of
small springs. Generally those superficial springs do not emerge through distinct channels,
but move, though slowly, in a massive way down the slopes until they enter a water course.
Along the banks of any river, however small, or along the shores of the sea, a pit a few inches
deep just above the level of the water will be quickly filled by a flow from this sheet which
underlies the earth. At a distance from the stream this sheet spring is in contact with the
bed rocks, and may be many feet below the surface, but it comes to the level of the river or
the sea near their margins. Here and there the shape of the bed rocks, being like converging
house roofs, causes the superficial springs to form small pipelike channels for the escape
of their gathered waters, and the flow emerges at a definite point. Almost all these sources
of considerable flow are due to the action of the water on the underlying rock, where we shall
now follow that portion of the crevice water which penetrates deeply into the earth.

Almost all rocks, however firm they may appear to be, are divided by crevices which extend
from the soil level it may be to the depths of thousands of feet. These rents are in part due
to the strains of mountain-building, which tend to disrupt the firmest stone, leaving open
fractures. They are also formed in other ways, as by the imperfectly understood agencies which
produce joint planes. It often happens that where rocks are highly tilted water finds its way
downward between the layers, which are imperfectly soldered together, or a bed of coarse material,
such as sandstone or conglomerate, may afford an easy way by which the water may descend for
miles beneath the surface. Passing through rocks which are not readily soluble, the water,
already to a great extent supplied with mineral matter by its journey through the soil, may
not do much excavating work, and even after a long time may only slightly enlarge the spaces
in which it may be stored or the channels by which it discharges to the surface. Hence it comes
about that in many countries, even where the waters penetrate deeply, they do not afford large
springs. It is otherwise where the crevice waters enter limestones composed of materials which
are readily dissolved. In such places we find the rain so readily entering the underlying rock
that no part of the fall goes at once to the brooks, but all has a long underground journey.

In any limestone district where the beds of the material are thick and tolerably pure--as,
for instance, in the cavern district of southern Kentucky--the traveller who enters the region
notes at once that the usual small streams which in every region of considerable rainfall he
is accustomed to see intersecting the surface of the country are entirely absent. In their
place he notes everywhere pitlike depressions of bowl-shaped form, the sink holes to which
we have already adverted. Through the openings in the bottom of these the rain waters descend
into the depths of the earth. Although the most of these depressions have but small openings
in their bottom, now and then one occurs with a vertical shaft sufficiently large to permit
the explorer to descend into it, though he needs to be lowered down in the manner of a miner
who is entering a shaft. In fact, the journey is nearly always one of some hazard; it should
not be undertaken save with many precautions to insure safety.

When one is lowered away through an open sink hole, though the descent may at first be somewhat
tortuous, the explorer soon finds himself swinging freely in the air, it may be at a point
some hundred feet above the base of the bottle-shaped shaft or dome into which he has entered.
Commonly the neck of the bottle is formed where the water has worked its way through a rather
sandy limestone, a rock which was not readily dissolved by the water. In the pure and therefore
easily cut limestone layers the cavity rapidly expands until the light of the lantern may not
disclose its walls. Farther down there is apt to be a shelf composed of another impure limestone,
which extends off near the middle of the shaft. If the explorer can land upon this shelf, he
is sure to find that from this imperfect floor the cavern extends off in one or more horizontal
galleries, which he may follow for a great distance until he comes to the point where there
is again a well-like opening through the hard layer, with another dome-shaped base beneath.
Returning to the main shaft, the explorer may continue his descent until he attains the base
of this vertical section of the cave, where he is likely to find himself delivered in a pool
of water of no great depth, the bottom of which is occupied by a quantity of small, hard stones
of a flinty nature, which have evidently come from the upper parts of the cavern. The close
observer will have noted that here and there in the limestone there are flinty bits, such as
those which he finds in the pool. From the bottom of the dome a determined inquirer can often
make his way along the galleries which lead from that level, though it may be after a journey
of miles to the point where he emerges from the cavern on the banks of an open-air river.

Although a journey by way of the sink holes through a cavern system is to be commended for
the reason that it is the course of the caverning waters, it is, on the whole, best to approach
the cave through their exits along the banks of a stream or through the chance openings which
are here and there made by the falling in of their roofs. One advantage of this cavity of entrance
is that we can thus approach the cavern in times of heavy rain when the processes which lead
to their construction are in full activity. Coming in this way to one of the domes formed beneath
a sink hole, we may observe in rainy weather that the water falling down the deep shaft strikes
the bottom with great force; in many of the Kentucky caves it falls from a greater height than
Niagara. At such times the stones in the basin at the bottom of the shaft are vigorously whirled
about, and in their motion they cut the rocks in the bottom of the basin--in fact, this cavity
is a great pot hole, like those at the base of open-air cascades. It is now easy to interpret
the general principles which determine the architecture of the cavern realm.

When it first enters the earth all the work which the water does in the initial steps of cavern
formation is effected by solution. As the crevice enlarges and deepens, the stream acquires
velocity, and begins to use the bits of hard rock in boring. It works downward in this way
by the mixed mechanical and chemical action until it encounters a hard layer. Then the water
creeps horizontally through the soft stratum, doing most of its work by solution, until it
finds a crevice in the floor through which it can excavate farther in the downward direction;
so it goes on in the manner of steps until it burrows channels to the open stream. In time
the vertical fall under the sink hole will cut through the hard layer, when the water, abandoning
the first line of exit, will develop another at a lower level, and so in time it comes about
that there may be several stories of the cave, the lowest being the last to be excavated. Of
the total work thus done, only a small part is accomplished by the falling of the water, acting
through the boring action of its tools, the bits of stone before mentioned; the principal part
of the task is done by the solvent action of the carbonated waters on the limestone. In the
system of caverns known as the Mammoth Cave, in Kentucky, the writer has estimated that at
least nine tenths of the stone was removed in the state of solution.

When first excavated, the chambers of a limestone cavern have little beauty to attract the
eye. The curves of the walls are sometimes graceful, but the aspect of the chambers, though
in a measure grand, is never charming. When, however, the waters have ceased to carve the openings,
when they have been drained away by the formation of channels on a lower level, there commonly
sets in a process known as stalactitization, which transforms the scene into one of singular
beauty. We have already noted the fact that everywhere in ordinary rocks there are crevices
through which water, moving under the pressure of the fluid which is above, may find its way
slowly downward. In the limestone roofs of caverns, particularly in those of the upper story,
this ooze of water passes through myriads of unseen fissures at a rate so slow that it often
evaporates in the dry air without dropping to the floor. When it comes out of the rocks the
water is charged with various salts of lime; when it evaporates it leaves the material behind
on the roof. Where the outflow is so slight that the fluid does not gather into drops, it forms
an incrustation of limy matter, which often gathers in beautiful flowerlike forms, or perhaps
in the shape of a sheet of alabaster. Where drops are formed, a small, pendent cone grows downward
from the ceiling, over which the water flows, and on which it evaporates. This cone grows slowly
downward until it may attain the floor of the chamber, which has a height of thirty feet or
more. If all the water does not evaporate, that which trickles off the apex of the cone, striking
on the floor, is splashed out into a thin sheet, so that it evaporates in a speedy manner,
lays down its limestone, and thus builds another and ruder cone, which grows upward toward
that which is pendent above it. Finally, they grow together, enlarged by the process which
constructed them, until a mighty column may be formed, sculptured as if by the hands of a fantastic
architect.

All the while that subterranean streams are cutting the caverns downward the open-air rivers
into which they discharge are deepening their beds, and thereby preparing for the construction
of yet lower stories of caves. These open-air streams commonly flow in steep-sided, narrow
valleys, which themselves were caves until the galleries became so wide that they could no
longer support the roof. Thus we often find that for a certain distance the roof over a large
stream has fallen in, so that the water flows in the open air. Then it will plunge under an
arch and course, it may be, for some miles, before it again arrives at a place where the roof
has disappeared, or perhaps attains a field occupied by rocks of another character, in which
caverns were not formed. At places these old river caverns are abandoned by the streams, which
find other courses. They form natural tunnels, which are not infrequently of considerable length.
One such in southwestern Virginia has been made useful for a railway passing from one valley
to another, thus sparing the expense of a costly excavation. Where the remnant of the arch
is small, it is commonly known as a natural bridge, of which that in Rockbridge County, in
Virginia, is a very noble example. Arches of this sort are not uncommon in many cavern countries;
five such exist in Carter County, Kentucky, a district in the eastern part of that State which
abounds in caverns, though none of them are of conspicuous height or beauty.[7]

[Footnote 7: It is reported that one of these natural bridges of Carter County has recently
fallen down. This is the natural end of these features. As before remarked, they are but the
remnants of much more extensive roofs which the processes of decay have brought to ruin.]

At this stage of his studies on cavern work the student will readily conceive that, as the
surface of the country overlying the cave is incessantly wearing down, the upper stories of
the system are continually disappearing, while new ones are forming at the present drainage
level of the country. In fact, the attentive eye can in such a district find here and there
evidences of this progressive destruction. Not only do the caves wear out from above, but their
roofs are constantly falling to their floors, a process which is greatly aided by the growth
of stalactites. Forming in the crevices or joints between the stones, these rock growths sometimes
prize off great blocks. In other cases the weight of the pendent stalactite drags the ill-supported
masses of the roof to the floor. In this way a gallery originally a hundred feet below the
surface may work its way upward to the light of day. The entrance by which the Mammoth Cave
is approached appears to have been formed in this manner, and at several points in that system
of caverns the effect of this action may be distinctly observed.

We must now go a step further on the way of subterranean water, and trace its action in the
depths below the plane of ordinary caves, which, as we have noted, do not extend below the
level of the main streams of the cavern district. The first group of facts to be attended to
is that exhibited by artesian wells. These occur where rocks have been folded down into a basinlike
form. It often happens that in such a basin the rocks of which it is composed are some of them
porous, and others impervious to water, and that the porous layers outcrop on the high margins
of the depression and have water-tight layers over them. These conditions can be well represented
by supposing that we have two saucers, one within the other, with an intervening layer of sand
which is full of water. If now we bore an opening in the bottom of the uppermost saucer, we
readily conceive that the water will flow up through it. In Nature we often find these basins
with the equivalent of the sandy layer in the model just described rising hundreds of feet
above the valley, so that the artesian well, so named from the village of Artois, near Paris,
where the first opening of this nature was made, may yield a stream which will mount upward,
especially where piped, to a great height. At many places in the world it is possible by such
wells to obtain a large supply of tolerably pure water, but in general it is found to contain
too large a supply of dissolved mineral matter or sulphuretted gases to be satisfactory for
domestic purposes. It may be well to note the fact that the greater part of the so-called artesian
wells, or borings which deliver water to a height above the surface, are not true artesian
sources, in that they do not send up the water by the action of gravitation, but under the
influence of gaseous pressure.

Where, as in the case of upturned porous beds, the crevice water penetrates far below the earth's
surface or the open-air streams which drain the water away, the fluid acquires a considerable
increase of temperature, on the average about one degree Fahrenheit for each eighty feet of
descent. It may, indeed, become so heated that if it were at the earth's surface it would not
only burst into steam with a vast explosive energy, but would actually shine in the manner
of heated solids. As the temperature of water rises, and as the pressure on it increases, it
acquires a solvent power, and takes in rocky matter in a measure unapproached at the earth's
surface. At the depth of ten miles water beginning as inert rain would acquire the properties
which we are accustomed to associate with strong acids. Passing downward through fissures or
porous strata in the manner indicated in the diagram, the water would take up, by virtue of
its heat and the gases it contained, a share of many mineral substances which we commonly regard
as insoluble. Gold and even platinum--the latter a material which resists all acids at ordinary
temperatures--enters into the solution. If now the water thus charged with mineral stores finds
in the depths a shorter way to the surface than that which it descended, which may well happen
by way of a deep rift in the rocks, it will in its ascent reverse the process which it followed
on going down. It will deposit the several minerals in the order of their solubilities--that
is, the last to be taken in will be the first to be crystallized on the walls of the fissure
through which the upflow is taking place. The result will be the formation of a vein belonging
to the variety known as fissure veins.

A vein deposit such as we are considering may, though rarely, be composed of a single mineral.
Most commonly we find the deposit arranged in a banded form in the manner indicated in the
figure (see diagram 14). Sometimes one material will abound in the lower portions of the fissure
and another in its higher parts, a feature which is accounted for by the progressive cooling
and relinquishment of pressure to which the water is subjected on its way to the surface. With
each decrement of those properties some particular substance goes out of the fluid, which may
in the end emerge in the form of a warm or hot spring, the water of which contains but little
mineral matter. Where, however, the temperature is high, some part of the deposit, even a little
gold, may be laid down just about the spring in the deposits known as sinter, which are often
formed at such places.

In many cases the ore deposits are formed not only in the main channel of the fissure, but
in all the crevices on either side of that way. In this manner, much as in the case of the
growth of stalactitic matter between the blocks of stone in the roofs of a cavern, large fragments
of rock, known as "horses," are often pushed out into the body of the vein. In some instances
the growth of the vein appears to enlarge the fissure or place of the deposit as the accumulation
goes on, the process being analogous to that by which a growing root widens the crevice into
which it has penetrated. In other instances the fissure formed by the force has remained wide
open, or at most has been but partly filled by the action of the water.

It not infrequently happens that the ascending waters of hot springs entering limestones have
excavated extensive caves far below the surface of the earth, these caverns being afterward
in part filled by the ores of various metals. We can readily imagine that the water at one
temperature would excavate the cavern, and long afterward, when at a lower heat, they might
proceed to fill it in. At a yet later stage, when the surface of the country had worn down
many thousands of feet below the original level, the mineral stores of the caverns may be brought
near the surface of the earth. Some of the most important metalliferous deposits of the Cordilleras
are found in this group of hot-water caverns. These caverns are essentially like those produced
by cold water, with the exception of the temperature of the fluid which does the work and the
opposite direction of the flow.

In following crevice water which is free to obey the impulses of gravitation far down into
the earth, we enter on a realm where the rock or construction water, that which was built into
the stone at the time of its formation, is plentiful. Where these two groups of waters come
in contact an admixture occurs, a certain portion of the rock water joining that in the crevices.
Near the surface of the ground we commonly find that all the construction water has been washed
out by this action. Yet if the rocks be compact, or if they have layers of a soft and clayey
nature, we may find the construction water, even in very old deposits, remaining near the surface
of the ground. Thus in the ancient Silurian beds of the Ohio Valley a boring carried a hundred
feet below the level of the main rivers commonly discovers water which is clearly that laid
down in the crevices of the material at the time when the rocks were formed in the sea. In
all cases this water contains a certain amount of gases derived from the decomposition of various
substances, but principally from the alteration of iron pyrite, which affords sulphuretted
hydrogen. Thus the water is forced to the surface with considerable energy, and the well is
often named artesian, though it flows by gas pressure on the principle of the soda-water fountain,
and not by gravity, as in the case of true artesian wells.

The passage between the work done by the deeply penetrating surface water and that due to the
fluid intimately blended with the rock built into the mass at the time of its formation is
obscure. We are, however, quite sure that at great depths beneath the earth the construction
water acts alone not only in making veins, but in bringing about many other momentous changes.
At a great depth this water becomes intensely heated, and therefore tends to move in any direction
where a chance fissure or other accident may lessen the pressure. Creeping through the rocks,
and moving from zones of one temperature to another, these waters bring about in the fine interstices
chemical changes which lead to great alterations in the constitution of the rock material.
It is probably in part to these slow driftings of rock water that beds originally made up of
small, shapeless fragments, such as compose clay slates, sandstones, and limestones, may in
time be altered into crystalline rocks, where there is no longer a trace of the original bits,
all the matter having been taken to pieces by the process of dissolving, and reformed in the
regular crystalline order. In many cases we may note how a crystal after being made has been
in part dissolved away and replaced by another mineral. In fact, many of our rocks appear to
have been again and again made over by the slow-drifting waters, each particular state in their
construction being due to some peculiarity of temperature or of mineral contents which the
fluid held. These metamorphic phenomena, though important, are obscure, and their elucidation
demands some knowledge of petrographic science, that branch of geology which considers the
principles of rock formation. They will therefore not be further considered in this work.

                           VOLCANOES.

Of old it was believed that volcanoes represented the outpouring of fluid rock which came forth
from the central realm of the earth, a region which was supposed still to retain the liquid
state through which the whole mass of our earth has doubtless passed. Recent studies, however,
have brought about a change in the views of geologists which is represented by the fact that
we shall treat volcanic phenomena in connection with the history of rock water.

In endeavouring to understand the phenomena of volcanoes it is very desirable that the student
should understand what goes on in a normal eruption. The writer may, therefore, be warranted
in describing some observations which he had an opportunity to make at an eruption of Vesuvius
in 1883, when it was possible to behold far more than can ordinarily be discerned in such outbreaks--in
fact, the opportunity of a like nature has probably not been enjoyed by any other person interested
in volcanic action. In the winter of 1882-'83 Vesuvius was subjected to a succession of slight
outbreaks. At the time of the observations about to be noted the crater had been reduced to
a cup about three hundred feet in diameter and about a hundred feet deep. The vertical shaft
at the bottom, through which the outbursts were taking place, was about a hundred feet across.
Taking advantage of a heavy gale from the northwest, it was practicable, notwithstanding the
explosions, to climb to the edge of the crater wall. Looking down into the throat of the volcano,
although the pit was full of whirling vapours and the heat was so great that the protection
of a mask was necessary, it was possible to see something of what was going on at the moment
of an explosion.

The pipe of the volcano was full of white-hot lava. Even in a day of sunshine, which was only
partly obscured by the vapours which hung about the opening, the heat of the lava made it very
brilliant. This mass of fluid rock was in continuous motion, swaying violently up and down
the tube. From four to six times a minute, at the moment of its upswaying, it would burst as
by the explosion of a gigantic bubble. The upper portion of the mass was blown upward in fragments,
the discharge being like that of shot from a fowling piece; the fragments, varying in size
from small, shotlike bits to masses larger than a man's head, were shot up sometimes to the
height of fifteen hundred feet above the point of ejection. The wind, blowing at the rate of
about forty miles an hour, drove the falling bits of rock to the leeward, so that there was
no considerable danger to be apprehended from them. Some seconds after the explosion they could
be heard rattling down on the farther slope of the cone. Observations on the interval between
the discharge and the fall of the fragments made it easy to compute the height to which they
were thrown.

At the moment when the lava in the pipe opened for the passage of the vapour which created
the explosion the movement, though performed in a fraction of a second, was clearly visible.
At first the vapour was colourless; a few score feet up it began to assume a faint, bluish
hue; yet higher, when it was more expanded, the tint changed to that of steam, which soon became
of the ordinary aspect, and gathered in swift-revolving clouds. The watery nature of the vapour
was perfectly evident by its odour. Though commingled with sulphurous-acid gas, it still had
the characteristic smell of steam. For a half hour it was possible to watch the successive
explosions, and even to make rough sketches of the scene. Occasionally the explosions would
come in quick succession, so that the lava was blown out of the tube; again, the pool would
merely sway up and down in a manner which could be explained only by supposing that great bubbles
of vapour were working their way upward toward the point where they could burst. Each of these
bubbles probably filled a large part of the diameter of the pipe. In general, the phenomena
recalled the escape of the jet from a geyser, or, to take a familiar instance, that of steam
from the pipe of a high-pressure engine. When the heat is great, steam may often be seen at
the mouth of the pipe with the same transparent appearance which was observed in the throat
of the crater. In the cold air of the mountain the vapour was rapidly condensed, giving a rainbow
hue in the clouds when they were viewed at the right angle. The observations were interrupted
by the fact that the wind so far died away that large balls of the ejected lava began to fall
on the windward side of the cone. These fragments, though cooled and blackened on their outside
by their considerable journey up and down through the air, were still so soft that they splashed
when they struck the surface of cinders.

Watching the cone from a distance, one could note that from time to time the explosions, increasing
in frequency, finally attained a point where the action appeared to be continuous. The transition
was comparable to that which we may observe in a locomotive which, when it first gets under
way, gives forth occasional jets of steam, but, slowly gaining speed, finally pours forth what
to eye and ear alike seem to be a continuous outrush. All the evidence that we have concerning
volcanic outbreaks corroborates that just cited, and is to the effect that the essence of the
action consists in the outbreak of water vapour at a high temperature, and therefore endowed
with very great expansive force. Along with this steam there are many other gases, which always
appear to be but a very small part of the whole escape of a vaporous nature--in fact, the volcanic
steam, so far as its chemical composition has been ascertained, has the composition which we
should expect to find in rock water which had been forced out from the rock by the tensions
that high temperature creates.

Because of its conspicuous nature, the lava which flows from most volcanoes, or is blown out
from them in the form of finely divided ash, is commonly regarded as the primary feature in
a volcanic outbreak. Such is not really the case. Volcanic explosions may occur with very little
output of fluid rock, and that which comes forth may consist altogether of the finely divided
bits of rock to which we give the name of ash. In fact, in all very powerful explosions we
may expect to find no lava flow, but great quantities of this finely divided rock, which when
it started from the depths of the earth was in a fluid state, but was blown to pieces by the
contained vapour as it approached the surface.

If the student is so fortunate as to behold a flood of lava coming forth from the flanks of
a volcano, he will observe that even at the very points of issue, where the material is white-hot
and appears to be as fluid as water, the whole surface gives forth steam. On a still day, viewed
from a distance, the path of a lava flow is marked by a dense cloud of this vapour which comes
forth from it. Even after the lava has cooled so that it is safe to walk upon it, every crevice
continues to pour forth steam. Years after the flowing has ceased, and when the rock surface
has become cool enough for the growth of certain plants upon it, these crevices still yield
steam. It is evident, in a word, that a considerable part of a lava mass, even after it escapes
from the volcanic pipes, is water which is intimately commingled with the rock, probably lying
between the very finest grains of the heated substance. Yet this lava which has come forth
from the volcano has only a portion of the water which it originally contained; a large, perhaps
the greater part, has gone forth in the explosive way through the crater. It is reasonably
believed that the fluidity of lava is in considerable measure due to the water which it contains,
and which serves to give the mass the consistence of paste, the partial fluidity of flour and
rock grains being alike brought about in the same manner.

So much of the phenomena of volcanoes as has been above noted is intended to show the large
part which interstitial water plays in volcanic action. We shall now turn our attention again
to the state of the deeply buried rock water, to see how far we may be able by it to account
for these strange explosive actions. When sediments are laid down on the sea floor the materials
consist of small, irregularly shaped fragments, which lie tumbled together in the manner of
a mass of bricks which have been shot out of a cart. Water is buried in the plentiful interspaces
between these bits of stone; as before remarked, the amount of this construction water varies.
In general, it is at first not far from one tenth part of the materials. Besides the fluid
contained in the distinct spaces, there is a share which is held as combined water in the intimate
structure of the crystals, if such there be in the mass. When this water is built into the
stone it has the ordinary temperature of the sea bottom. As the depositing actions continue
to work, other beds are formed on the top of that which we are considering, and in time the
layer may be buried to the depth of many thousand feet. There are reasons to believe that on
the floors of the oceans this burial of beds containing water may have brought great quantities
of fluid to the depth of twenty miles or more below the outer surface of the rocks.

The effect of deep burial is to increase the heat of strata. This result is accomplished in
two different ways. The direct effect arising from the imposition of weight, that derived from
the mass of stratified material, is, as we know, to bring about a down-sinking of the earth's
crust. In the measure of this falling, heat is engendered precisely as it is by the falling
of a trip-hammer on the anvil, with which action, as is well known, we may heat an iron bar
to a high temperature. It is true that this down-sinking of the surface under weight is in
part due to the compression of the rocks, and in part to the slipping away of the soft underpinning
of more or less fluid rock. Yet further it is in some measure brought about by the wrinkling
of the crust. But all these actions result in the conversion of energy of position into heat,
and so far serve to raise the temperature of the rocks which are concerned in the movements.
By far the largest source of heat, however, is that which comes forth from the earth's interior,
and which was stored there in the olden day when the matter forming the earth gathered into
the mass of our sphere. This, which we may term the original heat, is constantly flowing forth
into space, but makes its way slowly, because of the non-conductive, or, as we may phrase it,
the "blanketing" effect of the outer rock. The effect of the strata is the same as that exercised
by the non-conductive coatings which are put on steam boilers. A more familiar comparison may
be had from the blankets used for bedclothing. If on top of the first blanket we put a second,
we keep warmer because the temperature of the lower one is elevated by the heat from our body
which is held in. In the crust of the earth each layer of rock resists the outflow of heat,
and each addition lifts the temperature of all the layers below.

When water-bearing strata have been buried to the depth of ten miles, the temperature of the
mass may be expected to rise to somewhere between seven hundred and a thousand degrees Fahrenheit.
If the depth attained should be fifty miles, it is likely that the temperature will be five
times as great. At such a heat the water which the rocks contain tends in a very vigorous way
to expand and pass into the state of vapour. This it can not readily do, because of its close
imprisonment; we may say, however, that the tendency toward explosion is almost as great as
that of ignited gunpowder. Such powder, if held in small spaces in a mass of cast steel, could
be fired without rending the metal. The gases would be retained in a highly compressed, possibly
in a fluid form. If now it happens that any of the strain in the rocks such as lead to the
production of faults produce fissures leading from the surface into this zone of heated water,
the tendency of the rocks containing the fluid, impelled by its expansion, will be to move
with great energy toward the point of relief or lessened pressure which the crevice affords.
Where rocks are in any way softened, pressure alone will force them into a cavity, as is shown
by the fact that beds of tolerably hard clay stones in deep coal mines may be forced into the
spaces by the pressure of the rocks which overlie them--in fact, the expense of cutting out
these in-creeping rocks is in some British mines a serious item in the cost of the product.

The expansion of the water contained in the deep-lying heated rocks probably is by far the
most efficient agent in urging them toward the plane of escape which the fissure affords. When
the motion begins it pervades all parts of the rock at once, so that an actual flow is induced.
So far as the movement is due to the superincumbent weight, the tendency is at once to increase
the temperature of the moving mass. The result is that it may be urged into the fissure perhaps
even hotter than when it started from the original bed place. In proportion as the rocky matter
wins its way toward the surface, the pressure upon it diminishes, and the contained vapours
are freer to expand. Taking on the vaporous form, the bubbles gather to each other, and when
they appear at the throat of the volcano they may, if the explosions be infrequent, assume
the character above noted in the little eruption of Vesuvius. Where, however, the lava ascends
rapidly through the channel, it often attains the open air with so much vapour in it, and this
intimately mingled with the mass, that the explosion rends the materials into an impalpably
fine powder, which may float in the air for months before it falls to the earth. With a less
violent movement the vapour bubbles expand in the lava, but do not rend it apart, thus forming
the porous, spongy rock known as pumice. With a yet slower ascent a large part of the steam
may go away, so that we may have a flow of lava welling forth from the vent, still giving forth
steam, but with a vapour whose tension is so lowered that the matter is not blown apart, though
it may boil violently for a time after it escapes into the air.

Although the foregoing relatively simple explanation of volcanic action can not be said as
yet to be generally accepted by geologists, the reasons are sufficient which lead us to believe
that it accounts for the main features which we observe in this class of explosions--in other
words, it is a good working hypothesis. We shall now proceed in the manner which should be
followed in all natural inquiry to see if the facts shown in the distribution of volcanoes
in space and time confirm or deny the view.

The most noteworthy feature in the distribution of volcanoes is that, at the present time at
least, all active vents are limited to the sea floors or to the shore lands within the narrow
range of three hundred miles from the coast. Wherever we find a coast line destitute of volcanoes,
as is the case with the eastern coast of North and South America, it appears that the shore
has recently been carried into the land for a considerable distance--in other words, old coast
lines are normally volcanic; that is, here and there have vents of this nature. Thus the North
Atlantic, the coasts of which appear to have gone inland for a great distance in geologically
recent times, is non-volcanic; while the Pacific coast, which for a long time has remained
in its present position, has a singularly continuous line of craters near the shore extending
from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego. So uninterrupted is this line of volcanoes that if they were
all in eruption it would very likely be possible to journey down the coast without ever being
out of sight of the columns of vapour which they would send forth. On the floor of the sea
volcanic peaks appear to be very widely distributed; only a few of them--those which attain
the surface of the water--are really known, but soundings show long lines of elevations which
doubtless represent cones distributed along fault lines, none of the peaks of sufficient height
to break the surface of the sea. It is likely, indeed, that for one marine volcano which appears
as an island there are scores which do not attain the surface. Volcanic islands exist and generally
abound in the ocean and greater seas; every now and then we observe a new one forming as a
small island, which is apt to be washed away by the sea shortly after the eruption ceases,
the disappearance being speedy, for the reason that the volcanic ashes of which these cones
are composed drift away like snow before the movement of the waves.

If the waters of the ocean and seas were drained away so that we could inspect the portion
of the earth's surface which they cover as readily as we do the dry lands, the most conspicuous
feature would be the innumerable volcanic eminences which lie hidden in these watery realms.
Wherever the observer passed from the centres of the present lands he would note within the
limits of those fields only mountains, much modified by river action; hills which the rivers
had left in scarfing away the strata; and dales which had been carved out by the flowing waters.
Near the shore lines of the vanished seas he would begin to find mountains, hills, and vales
occasionally commingled with volcanic peaks, those structures built from the materials ejected
from the vents. Passing the coast line to the seaward, the hills and dales would quickly disappear,
and before long the mountains would vanish from his way, and he would gradually enter on a
region of vast rolling plains beset by volcanic peaks, generally accumulated in long ranges,
somewhat after the manner of mountains, but differing from those elevations not only in origin
but in aspect, the volcanic set of peaks being altogether made up of conical, cup-topped elevations.

A little consideration will show us that the fact of volcanoes being in the limit to the sea
floors and to a narrow fringe of shore next certain ocean borders is reconcilable with the
view as to their formation which we have adopted. We have already noted the fact that the continents
are old, which implies that the parts of the earth which they occupy have long been the seats
of tolerably continuous erosion. Now and then they have swung down partly beneath the sea,
and during their submersion they received a share of sediments. But, on the whole, all parts
of the lands except strips next the coast may be reckoned as having been subjected to an excess
of wearing action far exceeding the depositional work. Therefore, as we readily see, underneath
such land areas there has been no blanketing process going on which has served to increase
the heat in the deep underlying rocks. On the contrary, it would be easy to show, and the reader
may see it himself, that the progressive cooling of the earth has probably brought about a
lowering of the temperature in all the section from the surface to very great depths, so that
not only is the rock water unaffected by increase of heat, but may be actually losing temperature.
In other words, the conditions which we assume bring about volcanic action do not exist beneath
the old land.

Beneath the seas, except in their very greatest depths, and perhaps even there, the process
of forming strata is continually going on. Next the shores, sometimes for a hundred or two
miles away to seaward, the principal contribution may be the sediment worn from the lands by
the waves and the rivers. Farther away it is to a large extent made up of the remains of animals
and plants, which when dying give their skeletons to form the strata. Much of the materials
laid down--perhaps in all more than half--consist of volcanic dust, ashes, and pumice, which
drifts very long times before it finds its way to the bottom. We have as yet no data of a precise
kind for determining the average rate of accumulation of sediments upon the sea floor, but
from what is known of the wearing of the lands, and the amount of volcanic waste which finds
its way to the seas, it is probably not less than about a foot in ten thousand years; it is
most likely, indeed, much to exceed this amount. From data afforded by the eruptions in Java
and in other fields where the quantity of volcanic dust contributed to the seas can be estimated,
the writer is disposed to believe that the average rate of sedimentation on the sea floors
is twice as great as the estimate above given.

Accumulating at the average rate of one foot in ten thousand years, it would require a million
years to produce a hundred feet of sediments; a hundred million to form ten thousand feet,
and five hundred million to create the thickness of about ten miles of bed. At the rate of
two feet in ten thousand years, the thickness accumulated would be about twenty miles. When
we come to consider the duration of the earth's geologic history, we shall find reasons for
believing that the formation of sediment may have continued for as much as five hundred million
years.

The foregoing inquiries concerning the origin of volcanoes show that at the present time they
are clearly connected with some process which goes on beneath the sea. An extension of the
inquiry indicates that this relation has existed in earlier geological times; for, although
the living volcanoes are limited to places within three hundred miles of the sea, we find lava
flows, ashes, and other volcanic accumulations far in the interior of the continents, though
the energy which brought them forth to the earth's surface has ceased to operate in those parts
of the land. In these cases of continental volcanoes it generally, if not always, appears that
the cessation of the activity attended the removal of the shore line of the ocean or the disappearance
of great inland seas. Thus the volcanoes of the Yellowstone district may have owed their activity
to the immense deposits of sediment which were formed in the vast fresh-water lakes which during
the later Cretaceous and early Tertiary times stretched along the eastern face of the Rocky
Mountains, forming a Mediterranean Sea in North America comparable to that which borders southern
Europe. It thus appears that the arrangement of volcanoes with reference to sea basins has
held for a considerable period in the past. Still further, when we look backward through the
successive formations of the earth's crust we find here and there evidences in old lava flows,
in volcanic ashes, and sometimes in the ruins of ancient cones which have been buried in the
strata, that igneous activity such as is now displayed in our volcanoes has been, since the
earliest days of which we have any record, a characteristic feature of the earth. There is
no reason to suppose that this action has in the past been any greater or any less than in
modern days. All these facts point to the conclusion that volcanic action is due to the escape
of rock water which has been heated to high temperatures, and which drives along with it as
it journeys toward a crevice the rock in which it has been confined.

We will now notice some other explanations of volcanic action which have obtained a certain
credence. First, we may note the view that these ejections from craters are forced out from
a supposed liquid interior of the earth. One of the difficulties of this view is that we do
not know that the earth's central parts are fluid--in fact, many considerations indicate that
such is not the case. Next, we observe that we not infrequently find two craters, each containing
fluid lava, with the fluid standing at differences of height of several thousand feet, although
the cones are situated very near each other. If these lavas came from a common internal reservoir,
the principles which control the action of fluids would cause the lavas to be at the same elevation.
Moreover, this view does not provide any explanation of the fact that volcanoes are in some
way connected with actions which go on on the floors of great water basins. There is every
reason to believe that the fractures in the rocks under the land are as numerous and deep-going
as those beneath the sea. If it were a mere question of access to a fluid interior, volcanoes
should be equally distributed on land and sea floors. Last of all, this explanation in no wise
accounts for the intermixture of water with the fluid rock. We can not well believe that water
could have formed a part of the deeper earth in the old days of original igneous fusion. In
that time the water must have been all above the earth in the vaporous state.

Another supposition somewhat akin to that mentioned is that the water of the seas finds its
way down through crevices beneath the floors of the ocean, and, there coming in contact with
an internal molten mass, is converted into steam, which, along with the fluid rock, escapes
from the volcanic vent. In addition to the objections urged to the preceding view, we may say
concerning this that the lava, if it came forth under these circumstances, would emerge by
the short way, that by which the water went down, and not by the longer road, by which it may
be discharged ten thousand feet or more above the level of the sea.

The foregoing general account of volcanic action should properly be followed by some account
of what takes place in characteristic eruptions. This history of these matters is so ample
that it would require the space of a great encyclopædia to contain them. We shall therefore
be able to make only certain selections which may serve to illustrate the more important facts.

By far the best-known volcanic cone is that of Vesuvius, which has been subjected to tolerably
complete record for about twenty-four hundred years. About 500 B.C. the Greeks, who were ever
on the search for places where they might advantageously plant colonies, settled on the island
of Ischia, which forms the western of what is now termed the Bay of Naples. This island was
well placed for tillage as well as for commerce, but the enterprising colonists were again
and again disturbed by violent outbreaks of one or more volcanoes which lie in the interior
of this island; at one time it appears that the people were driven away by these explosions.

In these pre-Christian days Vesuvius, then known as Monte Somma, was not known to be a volcano,
it never having shown any trace of eruption. It appeared as a regularly shaped mountain, somewhat
over two thousand feet high, with a central depression about three miles in diameter at the
top, and perhaps two miles over at the bottom, which was plainlike in form, with some lakes
of bitter water in the centre. The most we know of this central cavity is connected with the
insurrection of the slaves led by Spartacus, the army of the revolters having camped for a
time on the plain encircled by the crater walls. The outer slopes of the mountain afforded
then a remarkably fertile soil; some traces, indeed, of the fertility have withstood the modern
eruptions which have desolated its flanks. This wonderful Bay of Naples became the seat of
the fairest Roman culture, as well as of a very extended commerce. Toward the close of the
first century of our era the region was perhaps richer, more beautifully cultivated, and the
seat of a more elaborate luxury than any part of the shore line of Europe at the present day.
At the foot of the mountain, on the eastern border of the bay, the city of Pompeii, with a
population of about fifty thousand souls, was a considerable port, with an extensive commerce,
particularly with Egypt. The charming town was also a place of great resort for rich Egyptians
who cared to dwell in Europe. On the flanks of the mountain there was at least one large town,
Herculaneum, which appears to have been an association of rich men's residences. On the eastern
side of the bay, at a point now known as Baiæ, the Roman Government had a naval station, which
in the year 79 was under the command of the celebrated Pliny, a most voluminous though unscientific
writer on matters of natural history. With him in that year there was his nephew, commonly
known as the younger Pliny, then a student of eighteen years, but afterward himself an author.
These facts are stated in some detail, for they are all involved in the great tragedy which
we are now to describe.

For many years there had been no eruption about the Bay of Naples. The volcanoes on Ischia
had been still for a century or more, and the various circular openings on the mainland had
been so far quiet that they were not recognised as volcanoes. Even the inquisitive Pliny, with
his great learning, was so little of a geologist that he did not know the signs which indicate
the seat of volcanic action, though they are among the most conspicuous features which can
meet the eye. The Greeks would doubtless have recognised the meaning of these physical signs.
In the year 63 the shores of the Bay of Naples were subjected to a distinctive earthquake.
Others less severe followed in subsequent years. In an early morning in the year 79, a servant
aroused the elder Pliny at Baiæ with the news that there was a wonderful cloud rising from
Monte Somma. The younger Pliny states that in form it was like a pine tree, the common species
in Italy having a long trunk with a crown of foliage on its summit, shaped like an umbrella.
This crown of the column grew until it spread over the whole landscape, darkening the field
of view. Shortly after, a despatch boat brought a message to the admiral, who at once set forth
for the seat of the disturbance. He invited his nephew to accompany him, but the prudent young
man relates in his letters to Tacitus, from whom we know the little concerning the eruption
which has come down to us, that he preferred to do some reading which he had to attend to.
His uncle, however, went straight forward, intending to land at some point on the shore at
the foot of the cone. He found the sea, however, so high that a landing was impossible; moreover,
the fall of rock fragments menaced the ship. He therefore cruised along the shore for some
distance, landing at a station probably near the present village of Castellamare. At this point
the fall of ashes and pumice was very great, but the sturdy old Roman had his dinner and slept
after it. There is testimony that he snored loudly, and was aroused only when his servants
began to fear that the fall of ashes and stones would block the way out of his bedchamber.
When he came forth with his attendants, their heads protected by planks resting on pillows,
he set out toward Pompeii, which was probably the place where he sought to land. After going
some distance, the brave man fell dead, probably from heart disease; it is said that he was
at the time exceedingly asthmatic. No sooner were his servants satisfied that the life had
passed from his body than they fled. The remains were recovered after the eruption had ceased.
The younger Pliny further relates that after his uncle left, the cloud from the mountain became
so dense that in midday the darkness was that of midnight, and the earthquake shocks were so
violent that wagons brought to the courtyard of the dwelling to bear the members of the household
away were rolled this way and that by the quakings of the earth.

Save for the above-mentioned few and unimportant details concerning the eruption, we have no
other contemporaneous account. We have, indeed, no more extended story until Dion Cassius,
writing long after the event, tells us that Herculaneum and Pompeii were overwhelmed; but he
mixes his story with fantastic legends concerning the appearance of gods and demons, as is
his fashion in his so-called history. Of all the Roman writers, he is perhaps the most untrustworthy.
Fortunately, however, we have in the deposits of ashes which were thrown out at the time of
this great eruption some basis for interpreting the events which took place. It is evident
that for many hours the Vesuvian crater, which had been dormant for at least five hundred years,
blew out with exceeding fury. It poured forth no lava streams; the energy of the uprushing
vapours was too great for that. The molten rock in their path was blown into fine bits, and
all the hard material cast forth as free dust. In the course of the eruption, which probably
did not endure more than two days, possibly not more than twenty-four hours, ash enough was
poured forth to form a thick layer which spread far over the neighbouring area of land and
sea floor. It covered the cities of Herculaneum and Pompeii to a depth of more than twenty
feet, and over a circle having a diameter of twenty miles the average thickness may have been
something like this amount. So deep was it that, although almost all the people of these towns
survived, it did not seem to them worth while to undertake to excavate their dwelling places.
At Pompeii the covering did not overtop the higher of the low houses. An amount of labour which
may be estimated at not over one thirtieth of the value, or at least the cost which had been
incurred in building the city, would have restored it to a perfectly inhabitable state. The
fact that it was utterly abandoned probably indicates a certain superstitious view in connection
with the eruption.

The fact that the people had time to flee from Herculaneum and Pompeii, bearing with them their
more valuable effects, is proved by the excavations at these places which have been made in
modern times. The larger part of Pompeii and a considerable portion of Herculaneum have been
thus explored; only rarely have human remains been found. Here and there, particularly in the
cellars, the labourers engaged in the work of disinterring the cities note that their picks
enter a cavity; examining the space, they find they have discovered the remains of a human
skeleton. It has recently been learned that by pouring soft plaster of Paris into these openings
a mould may be obtained which gives in a surprisingly perfect manner the original form of the
body. The explanation of this mould is as follows: Along with the fall of cinders in an eruption
there is always a great descent of rain, arising from the condensation of the steam which pours
forth from the volcano. This water, mingling with the ashes, forms a pasty mud, which often
flows in vast streams, and is sometimes known as mud lava. This material has the qualities
of cement--that is, it shortly "sets" in a manner comparable to plaster of Paris or ordinary
mortar. During the eruption of 79 this mud penetrated all the low places in Pompeii, covering
the bodies of the people, who were suffocated by the fumes of the volcanic emanations. We know
that these people were not drowned by the inundation; their attitudes show that they were dead
before the flowing matter penetrated to where they lay.

It happened that Pompeii lay beyond the influence of the subsequent great eruptions of Vesuvius,
so that it afterward received only slight ash showers. Herculaneum, on the other hand, has
century by century been more and more deeply buried until at the present time it is covered
by many sheets of lava. This is particularly to be regretted, for the reason that, while Pompeii
was a seaport town of no great wealth or culture, Herculaneum was the residence place of the
gentry, people who possessed libraries, the records of which can be in many cases deciphered,
and from which we might hope to obtain some of the lost treasures of antiquity. The papyrus
rolls on which the books of that day were written, though charred by heat and time, are still
interpretable.

After the great explosion of 79, Vesuvius sank again into repose. It was not until 1056 that
vigorous eruptions again began. From time to time slight explosions occurred, none of which
yielded lava flows; it was not until the date last mentioned that this accompaniment of the
eruption began to appear. In 1636, after a repose of nearly a century and a half, there came
a very great outbreak, which desolated a wide extent of country on the northwestern side of
the cone. At this stage in the history of the crater the volcanic flow began to attain the
sea. Washing over the edge of the old original crater of Monte Somma, and thus lowering its
elevation, these streams devastated, during the eruption just mentioned and in various other
outbreaks, a wide field of cultivated land, overwhelming many villages. The last considerable
eruption which yielded large quantities of lava was that of 1872, which sent its tide for a
distance of about six miles.

Since 1636 the eruptions of Vesuvius have steadily increased in frequency, and, on the whole,
diminished in violence. In the early years of its history the great outbreaks were usually
separated by intervals of a century or more, and were of such energy that the lava was mostly
blown to dust, forming clouds so vast that on two occasions at least they caused a midnight
darkness at Constantinople, nearly twelve hundred miles away. This is as if a volcano at Chicago
should completely hide the sun in the city of Boston. In the present state of Vesuvius, the
cone may be said to be in slight, almost continuous eruption. The old central valley which
existed before the eruption of 79, and continued to be distinct for long after that time, has
been filled up by a smaller cone, bearing a relatively tiny crater of vent, the original wall
being visible only on the eastern and northern parts of its circuit, and here only with much
diminished height. On the western face the slope from the base of the mountain to the summit
of the new cone is almost continuous, though the trained eye can trace the outline of Monte
Somma--its position in a kind of bench, which is traceable on that side of the long slope leading
from the summit of the new cone to the sea. The fact that the lavas of Vesuvius have broken
out on the southwestern side, while the old wall of the cone has remained unbroken on the eastern
versant, has a curious explanation. The prevailing wind of Naples is from the southwest, being
the strong counter trades which belong in that latitude. In the old days when the Monte Somma
cone was constructed these winds caused the larger part of the ashes to fall on the leeward
side of the cone, thus forming a thicker and higher wall around that part of the crater.

From the nature of the recent eruptions of Vesuvius it appears likely that the mountain is
about to enter on a second period of inaction. The pipes leading through the new cone are small,
and the mass of this elevation constitutes a great plug, closing the old crater mouth. To give
vent to a large discharge of steam, the whole of this great mass, having a depth of nearly
two thousand feet, would have to be blown away. It seems most likely that when the occasion
for such a discharge comes, the vapours of the eruption will seek a vent through some other
of the many volcanic openings which lie to the westward of this great cone. The history of
these lesser volcanoes points to the conclusion that when the path by way of Vesuvius is obstructed
they may give relief to the steam which is forcing its course to the surface. Two or three
times since the eruption of Pliny, during periods when Vesuvius had long been quiet, outbreaks
have taken place on Ischia or in the Phlægræn Fields, a region dotted with small craters which
lies to the west of Naples. The last of these occurred in 1552, and led to the formation of
the beautiful little cone known as Monte Nuovo. This eruption took place near the town of Puzzuoli,
a place which was then the seat of a university, the people of which have left us records of
the accident.

The outbreak which formed Monte Nuovo was slight but very characteristic. It occurred in and
beside a circular pool known as the Lucrine Lake, itself an ancient crater. At the beginning
of the disturbance the ground opened in ragged cavities, from which mud and ashes and great
fragments of hard rock were hurled high in the air, some of the stones ascending to a height
of several thousand feet. With slight intermissions this outbreak continued for some days,
resulting in the formation of a hill about five hundred feet high, with a crater in its top,
the bottom of which lay near the level of the sea. Although this volcanic elevation, being
made altogether of loose fragments, is rapidly wearing down, while the crater is filling up,
it remains a beautiful object in the landscape, and is also noteworthy for the fact that it
is the only structure of this nature which we know from its beginning. In the Phlægræn Field
there are a number of other craters of small size, with very low cones about them. These appear
to have been the product of brief, slight eruptions. That known as the Solfatara, though not
in eruption during the historic period, is interesting for the fact that from the crevices
of the rocks about it there comes forth a continued efflux of carbonic-acid gas. This substance
probably arises from the effect of heat contained in old lavas which are in contact with limestone
in the deep under-earth. We know such limestones are covered by the lavas of Vesuvius, for
the reason that numerous blocks of the rock are thrown out during eruptions, and are often
found embedded in the lava streams. It is an interesting fact that these craters of the Phlægræn
Field, lying between the seats of vigorous eruption on Ischia and at Vesuvius, have never been
in vigorous eruption. Their slight outbreaks seem to indicate that they have no permanent connection
with the sources whence those stronger vents obtain their supply of heated steam.

The facts disclosed by the study of the Vesuvian system of volcanoes afford the geologist a
basis for many interesting conclusions.

In the first place, he notes that the greater part of the cones, all those of small size, are
made up of finely divided rock, which may have been more or less cemented by the processes
of change which go on within it. It is thus clear that the lava flows are unessential--indeed,
we may say accidental--contributions to the mass. In the case of Vesuvius they certainly do
not amount to as much as one tenth of the elevation due to the volcanic action. The share of
the lava in Vesuvius is probably greater than the average, for during the last six centuries
this vent has been remarkably lavigerous.[8] Observation on the volcanoes of other districts
show that the Vesuvian group is in this regard not peculiar. Of nearly two hundred cones which
the writer has examined, not more than one tenth disclose distinct lavas.

[Footnote 8: I venture to use this word in place of the phrase "lava-yielding" for the reason
that the term is needed in the description of volcanoes.]

An inspection of the old inner wall of Monte Somma in that portion where it is best preserved,
on the north side of the Atria del Cavallo, or Horse Gulch--so called for the reason that those
who ascended Vesuvius were accustomed to leave their saddle animals there--we perceive that
the body of the old cone is to a considerable extent interlaced with dikes or fissures which
have been filled with molten lava that has cooled in its place. It is evident that during the
throes of an eruption, when the lava stands high in the crater, these rents are frequently
formed, to be filled by the fluid rock. In fact, lava discharges, though they may afterward
course for long distances in the open air, generally break their way underground through the
cindery cone, and first are disclosed at the distance of a mile or more from the inner walls
of the crater. Their path is probably formed by riftings in the compacted ashes, such as we
trace on the steep sides of the Atria del Cavallo, as before noted. For the further history
of these fissures, we shall have to refer to facts which are better exhibited in the cone of Ætna.

The amount of rock matter which has been thrown forth from the volcanoes about the Bay of Naples
is very great. Only a portion of it remains in the region around these cones; by far the greater
part has been washed or blown away. After each considerable eruption a wide field is coated
with ashes, so that the tilled grounds appear as if entirely sterilized; but in a short time
the matter in good part disappears, a portion of it decays and is leached away, and the most
of the remainder washes into the sea. Only the showers, which accumulate a deep layer, are
apt to be retained on the surface of the country. A great deal of this powdered rock drifts
away in the wind, sometimes in great quantities, as in those cases where it darkened the sky
more than a thousand miles from the cone. Moreover, the water of the steam which brought about
the discharges and the other gases which accompanied the vapour have left no traces of their
presence, except in the deep channels which the rain of the condensing steam have formed on
the hillsides. Nevertheless, after all these subtractions are made, the quantity of volcanic
matter remaining on the surface about the Bay of Naples would, if evenly distributed, form
a layer several hundred feet in thickness--perhaps, indeed, a thousand feet in depth--over
the territory in which the vents occur. All this matter has been taken in relatively recent
times from the depths of the earth. The surprising fact is that no considerable and, indeed,
no permanent subsidence of the surface has attended this excavation. We can not believe that
this withdrawal of material from the under-earth has resulted in the formation of open underground
spaces. We know full well that any such, if it were of considerable size, would quickly be
crushed in by the weight of the overlying rocks. We have, indeed, to suppose that these steam-impelled
lavas, which are driven toward the vent whence they are to go forth in the state of dust or
fluid, come underground from distances away, probably from beneath the floors of the sea to
the westward.

Although the shores of the Bay of Naples have remained in general with unchanged elevation
for about two thousand years, they have here and there been subjected to slight oscillations
which are most likely connected with the movement of volcanic matter toward the vents where
it is to find escape. The most interesting evidence of this nature is afforded by the studies
which have been made on the ruins of the Temple of Serapis at Puzzuoli. This edifice was constructed
in pre-Christian times for the worship of the Egyptian god Serapis, whose intervention was
sought by sick people. The fact that this divinity of the Nile found a residence in this region
shows how intimate was the relation between Rome and Egypt in this ancient day. The Serapeium
was built on the edge of the sea, just above its level. When in modern days it began to be
studied, its floor was about on its original level, but the few standing columns of the edifice
afford indubitable evidence that this part of the shore has been lowered to the amount of twenty
feet or more and then re-elevated. The subsidence is proved by the fact that the upper part
of the columns which were not protected by the débris accumulated about them have been bored
by certain shellfish, known as Lithodomi, which have the habit of excavating shelters in soft
stone, such as these marble columns afford. At present the floor on which the ruin stands appears
to be gradually sinking, though the rate of movement is very slow.

Another evidence that the ejections may travel for a great distance underground on their way
to the vent is afforded by the fact that Vesuvius and Ætna, though near three hundred miles
apart, appear to exchange activities--that is, their periods of outbreak are not simultaneous.
Although these elements of the chronology of the two cones may be accidental, taken with similar
facts derived from other fields, they appear to indicate that vents, though far separated from
each other, may, so to speak, be fed from a common subterranean source. It is a singular fact
in this connection that the volcano of Stromboli, though situated between these two cones,
is in a state of almost incessant activity. This probably indicates that the last-named vent
derives its vapours from another level in the earth than the greater cones. In this regard
volcanoes probably behave like springs, of which, indeed, they may be regarded as a group.
The reader is doubtless aware that hot and cold springs often escape very near together, the
difference in the temperature being due to the depth from which their waters come forth.

As the accidents of volcanic explosion are of a nature to be very damaging to man, as well
as to the lower orders of Nature, it is fit that we should note in general the effect of the
Neapolitan eruptions on the history of civilization in that region. As stated above, the first
Greek settlements in this vicinity--those on the island of Ischia--were much disturbed by volcanic
outbreaks, yet the island became the seat of a permanent and prosperous colony. The great eruption
of 79 probably cost many hundred lives, and led to the abandonment of two considerable cities,
which, however, could at small cost have been recovered to use. Since that day various eruptions
have temporarily desolated portions of the territory, but only in very small fields have the
ravages been irremediable. Where the ground was covered with dust, it has in most places been
again tillable, and so rapid is the decay of the lavas that in a century after their flow has
ceased vines can in most cases be planted on their surfaces. The city of Naples, which lies
amid the vents, though not immediately in contact with any of them, has steadfastly grown and
prospered from the pre-Christian times. It is doubtful if any lives have ever been lost in
the city in consequence of an eruption, and no great inconvenience has been experienced from
them. Now and then, after a great ash shower, the volcanic dust has to be removed, but the
labour is less serious than that imposed on many northern cities by a snowstorm. Through all
these convulsions the tillage of the district has been maintained. It has ever been the seat
of as rich and profitable a husbandry as is afforded by any part of Italy. In fact, the ash
showers, as they import fine divided rock very rich in substances necessary for the growth
of plants, have in a measure served to maintain the fertility of the soil, and by this action
have in some degree compensated for the injury which they occasionally inflict. Comparing the
ravages of the eruptions with those inflicted by war, unnecessary disease, or even bad politics,
and we see that these natural accidents have been most merciful to man. Many a tyrant has caused
more suffering and death than has been inflicted by these rude operations of Nature.

From the point of view of the naturalist, Ætna is vastly more interesting than Vesuvius. The
bulk of the cone is more than twenty times as great as that of the Neapolitan volcano, and
the magnitude of its explosions, as well as the range of phenomena which they exhibit, incomparably
greater. It happens, however, that while human history of the recorded kind has been intimately
bound up with the tiny Vesuvian cone, partly because the relatively slight nature of its disturbances
permitted men to dwell beside it, the larger Ætna has expelled culture from the field near
its vent, and has done the greater part of its work in the vast solitude which it has created.[9]

[Footnote 9: In part the excellent record of Vesuvius is due to the fact that since the early
Christian centuries the priests of St. Januarius, the patron of Naples, have been accustomed
to carry his relics in procession whenever an eruption began. The cessation of the outbreak
has been written down to the credit of the saint, and thus we are provided with a long story
of the successive outbreaks.]

Ætna has been in frequent eruption for a very much longer time than Vesuvius. In the odes of
Pindar, in the sixth century before Christ, we find records of eruptions. It is said also that
the philosopher Empedocles sought fame and death by casting himself into the fiery crater.
There has thus in the case of this mountain been no such long period of repose as occurred
in Vesuvius. Though our records of the outbreaks are exceedingly imperfect, they serve to show
that the vent has maintained its activity much more continuously than is ordinarily the case
with volcanoes. Ætna is characteristically a lava-yielding cone; though the amount of dust
put forth is large, the ratio of the fluid rock which flows away from the crater is very much
greater than at Vesuvius. Nearly half the cone, indeed, may be composed of this material. Our
space does not permit anything like a consecutive story of the Ætnean eruptions since the dawn
of history, or even a full account of its majestic cone; we can only note certain features
of a particularly instructive nature which have been remarked by the many able men who have
studied this structure and the effects of its outbreak.

The most important feature exhibited by Ætna is the vast size of its cone. At its apex its
height, though variable from the frequent destruction and rebuilding of the crater walls, may
be reckoned as about eleven thousand feet. The base on which the volcanic material lies is
probably less than a thousand feet above the sea, so that the maximum thickness of the heap
of volcanic ejections is probably about two miles. The average depth of this coating is probably
about five thousand feet, and, as the cone has an average diameter of about thirty miles, we
may conclude that the cone now contains about a thousand cubic miles of volcanic materials.
Great as is this mass, it is only a small part of the ejected material which has gone forth
from the vent. All the matter which in its vaporous state went forth with the eruption, the
other gases and vapours thus discharged, have disappeared. So, too, a large part of the ash
and much of the lava has been swept away by the streams which drain the region, and which in
times of eruption are greatly swollen by the accompanying torrential rains. The writer has
estimated that if all the emanations from the volcano--solid, fluid, and gaseous--could be
heaped on the cone, they would form a mass of between two and three thousand cubic miles in
contents. Yet notwithstanding this enormous outputting of earthy matter, the earth on which
the Ætnean cone has been constructed has not only failed to sink down, but has been in process
of continuous, slow uprising, which has lifted the surface more than a thousand feet above
the level which it had at the time when volcanic action began in this field. Here, even more
clearly than in the case of Vesuvius, we see that the materials driven forth from the crater
are derived not from just beneath its foundation, but from a distance, from realms which in
the case of this insular volcano are beneath the sea floors. It is certain that here the migration
of rock matter, impelled by the expansion of its contained water toward the vent, has so far
exceeded that which has been discharged through the crater that an uprising of the surface
such as we have observed has been brought about.

There are certain peculiarities of Mount Ætna which are due in part to its great size and in
part to the climatal conditions of the region in which it lies. The upper part of the mountain
in winter is deeply snow-clad; the frozen water often, indeed, forms great drifts in the gorges
near the summit. Here it has occasionally happened that a layer of ashes has deeply buried
the mass, so that it has been preserved for years, becoming gradually more inclosed by the
subsequent eruptions. At one point where this compact snow--which has, indeed, taken on the
form of ice--has been revealed to view, it has been quarried and conveyed to the towns upon
the seacoast. It is likely that there are many such masses of ice inclosed between the ash
layers in the upper part of the mountain, where, owing to the height, the climate is very cold.
This curious fact shows how perfect a non-conductor the ash beds of a volcano are to protect
the frozen water from the heat of the rocks about the crater.

The furious rains which beset the mountain in times of great eruptions excavate deep channels
on its sides. The lava outbreaks which attend almost every eruption, and which descend from
the base of the cinder cone at the height of from five to eight thousand feet above the sea,
naturally find their way into these channels, where they course in the manner of rivers until
the lower and less valleyed section of the cone is reached.

Such a lava flow naturally begins to freeze on the surface, the lava at first becoming viscid,
much in the manner of cream on the surface of milk. Urged along by the more fluid lava underneath,
this viscid coating takes a ropy or corrugated form. As the freezing goes deeper, a firm stone
roof may be formed across the gorge, which, when the current of lava ceases to flow from the
crater, permits the lower part of the stream to drain away, leaving a long cavern or scries
of caves extending far up the cone. The nature of this action is exactly comparable to that
which we may observe when on a frosty morning after rain we may find the empty channels which
were occupied by rills of water roofed over with ice; the ice roofs are temporary, while those
of lava may endure for ages. Some of these lava-stream caves have been disclosed, in the manner
of ordinary caverns, by the falling of their roofs; but the greater part are naturally hidden
beneath the ever-increasing materials of the cone.

The lava-stream caves of Ætna are not only interesting because of their peculiarities of form,
which we shall not undertake to describe, but also for the reason that they help us to account
for a very peculiar feature in the history of the great cone. On the slopes of the volcano,
below the upper cindery portion, there are several hundred lesser cones, varying from a few
score to seven hundred feet in height. Each of these has its appropriate crater, and has evidently
been the seat of one or more eruptions. As the greater part of these cones are ancient, many
of them being almost effaced by the rain or buried beneath the ejections which have surrounded
their bases since the time they were formed, we are led to believe that many thousands of them
have been formed during the history of the volcano. The history of these subsidiary cones appears
to be connected with the lava caves noted above. These caverns, owing to the irregularities
of their form, contain water. They are, in fact, natural cisterns, where the abundant rainfall
of the mountain finds here and there storage. When, during the throes of an eruption, dikes
such as we know often to penetrate the mountain, are riven outward from the crater through
the mass of the cone, and filled with lava, the heated rock must often come in contact with
these masses of buried water. The result of this would inevitably be the local generation of
steam at a high temperature, which would force its way out in a brief but vigorous eruption,
such as has been observed to take place when these peripheral volcanoes are formed. Sometimes
it has happened that after the explosion the lava has found its way in a stream from the fissure
thus opened. That this explanation is sufficient is in a measure shown by observations on certain
effects of lava flows from Vesuvius. The writer was informed by a very judicious observer,
a resident of Naples, who had interested himself in the phenomena of that volcano, that the
lava streams when they penetrated a cistern, such as they often encounter in passing over villages
or farmsteads, vaporized the water, and gave rise, through the action of the steam, to small
temporary cones, which, though generally washed away by the further flow of the liquid rock,
are essentially like those which we find on Ætna. Such subsidiary, or, as they are sometimes
called, parasitic cones, are known about other volcanoes, but nowhere are they so characteristic
as on the flanks of that wonderful volcano.

A very conspicuous feature in the Ætnean cone consists of a great valley known as the Val del
Bove, or Bull Hollow, which extends from the base of the modern and ever-changeable cinder
cone down the flanks of the older structure to near its base. This valley has steep sides,
in places a thousand or more feet high, and has evidently been formed by the down-settling
of portions of the cone which were left without support by the withdrawal from beneath them
of materials cast forth in a time of explosion. In an eruption this remarkable valley was the
seat of a vast water flood, the fluid being cast forth from the crater at the beginning of
the explosion. In the mouths of this and other volcanoes, after a long period of repose, great
quantities of water, gathering from rains or condensed from the steam which slowly escapes
from these openings, often pours like a flood down the sides of the mountains. In the great
eruption of Galongoon, in Java, such a mass of water, cast forth by a terrific explosion, mingled
with ashes, so that the mass formed a thick mud, was shot forth with such energy that it ravaged
an area nearly eighty miles in diameter, destroying the forests and their wild inhabitants,
as well as the people who dwelt within the range of the amazing disaster. So powerfully was
this water driven from the crater that the districts immediately at the base of the cone were
in a manner overshot by the vast stream, and escaped with relatively little injury.

When it comes forth from the base of the cinder cone, or from one of the small peripheral craters,
the lava stream usually appears to be white hot, and to flow with almost the ease of water.
It does not really have that measure of fluidity; its condition is rather that of thin paste;
but the great weight of the material--near two and a half times that of water--causes the movement
down the slope to be speedy. The central portion of the lava stream long retains its high temperature;
but the surface, cooling, is first converted into a tough sheet, which, though it may bend,
can hardly be said to flow. Further hardening converts these outlying portions of the current
into hard, glassy stone, which is broken into fragments in a way resembling the ice on the
surface of a river. It thus comes about that the advancing front of the lava stream becomes
covered, and its motion hindered by the frozen rock, until the rate of ongoing may not exceed
a few feet an hour, and the appearance is that of a heap of stone slowly rolling down a slope.
Now and then a crevice is formed, through which a thin stream of liquid lava pours forth, but
the material, having already parted with much of its heat, rapidly cools, and in turn becomes
covered with the coating of frozen fragments. In this state of the stream the lava flow stands
on all sides high above the slope which it is traversing; it is, in fact, walled in by its
own solidified parts, though it is urged forward by the contribution which continues to flow
in the under arches. In this state of the movement trifling accidents, or even human interference,
may direct the current this way or that.

Some of the most interesting chapters in the history of Ætna relate to the efforts of the people
to turn these slow-moving streams so that their torrents might flow into wilderness places
rather than over the fields and towns. In the great flow of 1669, which menaced the city of
Catania, a large place on the seashore to the southeast of the cone, a public-spirited citizen,
Señor Papallardo, protecting himself and his servants with clothing made of hides, and with
large shields, set forth armed with great hooks with the purpose of diverting the course of
the lava mass. He succeeded in pulling away the stones on the flank of the stream, so that
a flow of the molten rock was turned in another direction. The expedient would probably have
been successful if he had been allowed to continue his labours; but the inhabitants of a neighbouring
village, which was threatened by the off-shooting current which Papallardo had created, took
up arms and drove him and his retainers away. The flow continued until it reached Catania.
The people made haste to build the city walls on the side of danger higher than it was before,
but the tide mounted over its summit.

Although the lavas which come forth from the volcano evidently have a high temperature, their
capacity for melting other rocks is relatively small. They scour these rocks, because of their
weight, even more energetically than do powerful torrents of water, but they are relatively
ineffective in melting stone. On Ætna and elsewhere we may often observe lavas which have flowed
through forests. When the tide of molten rock has passed by, the trees may be found charred
but not entirely burned away; even stems a few inches in diameter retain strength enough to
uphold considerable fringes and clots of the lava which has clung to them. These facts bear
out the conclusion that the fluidity of the heated stone depends in considerable measure on
the water which is contained, either in its fluid or vaporous state, between the particles
of the material.

If we consider the Italian volcanoes as a whole, we find that they lie in a long, discontinuous
line extending from the northern part of the valley of the Po, within sight of the Alps, to
Ætna, and in subterranean cones perhaps to the northern coast of Africa. At the northern end
of the line we have a beautiful group of extinct volcanoes, known as the Eugean Mountains.
Thence southward to southern Tuscany craters are wanting, but there is evidence of fissures
in the earth which give forth thermal waters. From southern Tuscany southward through Rome
to Naples there are many extinct craters, none of which have been active in the historic period.
From Naples southward the cones of this system, about a dozen in number, are on islands or
close to the margin of the sea. It is a noteworthy fact that the greater part of these shore
or insular vents have been active since the dawn of history; several of them frequently and
furiously so, while none of those occupying an inland position have been the seat of explosions.
This is a striking instance going to show the relation of these processes to conditions which
are brought about on the sea bottom.

Ætna is, as we have noticed, a much more powerful volcano than Vesuvius. Its outbreaks are
more vigorous, its emanations vastly greater in volume, and the mass of its constructions many
times as great as those accumulated in any other European cone. There are, however, a number
of volcanoes in the world which in certain features surpass Ætna as much as that crater does
Vesuvius. Of these we shall consider but two--Skaptar Jokul, of Iceland, remarkable for the
volume of its lava flow, and Krakatoa, an island volcano between Java and Sumatra, which was
the seat of the greatest explosion of which we have any record.

The whole of Iceland may be regarded as a volcanic mass composed mainly of lavas and ashes
which have been thrown up by a group of volcanoes lying near the northern end of the long igneous
axis which extends through the centre of the Atlantic. The island has been the seat of numerous
eruptions; in fact, since its settlement by the Northmen in 1070 its sturdy inhabitants have
been almost as much distressed by the calamities which have come from the internal heat as
they have been by the enduring external cold. They have, indeed, been between frost and fire.
The greatest recorded eruption of Iceland occurred in 1783, when the volcano of Skaptar, near
the southern border of the island, poured forth, first, a vast discharge of dust and ashes,
and afterward in the languid state of eruption inundated a series of valleys with the greatest
lava flow of which we have any written record. The dust poured forth into the upper air, being
finely divided and in enormous quantity, floated in the air for months, giving a dusky hue
to the skies of Europe, which led the common people and many of the learned to fear that the
wrath of God was upon them, and that the day of judgment was at hand. Even the poet Cowper,
a man of high culture and education, shared in this unreasonable view.

The lava flow in this eruption filled one of the considerable valleys of the island, drying
up the river, and inundating the plains on either side. Estimates which have been made as to
the volume of this flow appear to indicate that it may have amounted to more than the bulk
of the Mont Blanc.

This great eruption, by the direct effect of the calamity, and by the famine due to the ravaging
of the fields and the frightening of the fish from the shores which it induced, destroyed nearly
one fifth of the Icelandic people. It is, in fact, to be remembered as one of the three or
four most calamitous eruptions of which we have any account, and, from the point of view of
lava flow, the greatest in history.

Just a hundred years after the great Skaptar eruption, which darkened the skies of Europe,
the island of Krakatoa, an isle formed by a small volcano in the straits of Java, was the seat
of a vapour explosion which from its intensity is not only unparalleled, but almost unapproached
in all accounts of such disturbances. Krakatoa had long been recognised as a volcanic isle;
it is doubtful, however, if it had ever been seen in eruption during the three centuries or
more since European ships began to sail by it until the month of May of the year above mentioned.
Then an outbreak of what may be called ordinary violence took place, which after a few days
so far ceased that observers landed and took account of the changes which the convulsion had
brought about. For about three months there were no further signs of activity, but on the 29th
of August a succession of vast explosions took place, which blew away a great part of the island,
forming in its place a submarine crater two or three miles in diameter, creating world-wide
disturbances of sea and air. The sounds of the outbreak were heard at a distance of sixteen
hundred miles away. The waves of the air attendant on the explosion ran round the earth at
least once, as was distinctly indicated by the self-recording barometers; it is possible, indeed,
that, crossing each other in their east and west courses, these atmospheric tides twice girdled
the sphere. In effect, the air over the crater was heaved up to the height of some tens of
thousands of feet, and thence rolled off in great circular waves, such as may be observed in
a pan of milk when a sharp blow pushes the bottom upward.

The violent stroke delivered to the waters of the sea created a vast wave, which in the region
where it originated rolled upon the shores with a surf wall fifty or more feet high. In a few
minutes about thirty thousand people were overwhelmed. The wave rolled on beyond its destructive
limits much in the manner of the tide; its influence was felt in a sharp rise and fall of the
waters as far as the Pacific coast of North America, and was indicated by the tide gauges in
the Atlantic as far north as the coast of Europe.

Owing to the violence of the eruption, Krakatoa poured forth no lava, but the dust and ashes
which ascended into the air--or, in other words, the finely divided lava which escaped into
the atmosphere--probably amounted in bulk to more than twenty cubic miles. The coarser part
of this material, including much pumice, fell upon the seas in the vicinity, where, owing to
its lightness, it was free to drift in the marine currents far and wide throughout the oceanic
realm. The finer particles, thrown high into the air, perhaps to the height of nearly a hundred
thousand feet--certainly to the elevation of more than half this amount--drifted far and wide
in the atmosphere, so that for years the air of all regions was clouded by it, the sunrise
and sunset having a peculiar red glow, which the dust particles produce by the light which
they reflect. In this period, at all times when the day was clear, the sun appeared to be surrounded
by a dusky halo. In time the greater part of this dust was drawn down by gravity, some portion
of it probably falling on every square foot of the earth. Since the disappearance of the characteristic
phenomena which it produced in the atmosphere, European observers have noted the existence
of faint clouds lying in the upper part of the air at the height of a hundred miles or more
above the surface. These clouds, which were at first distinctly visible in the earliest stage
of dawn and in the latest period of the sunset glow, seemed to be in rapid motion to the eastward,
and to be mounting higher above the earth. It has been not unreasonably supposed that these
shining clouds represent portions of the finest dust from Krakatoa, which has been thrown so
far above the earth's attraction that it is separating itself from the sphere. If this view
be correct, it seems likely that we may look to great volcanic explosions as a source whence
the dustlike particles which people the celestial spaces may have come. They may, in a word,
be due to volcanic explosions occurring on this and other celestial spheres.

The question suggested above as to the possibility of volcanic ejections throwing matter from
the earth beyond the control of its gravitative energy is one of great scientific interest.
Computations (not altogether trustworthy) show that a body leaving the earth's surface under
the conditions of a cannon ball fired vertically upward would have to possess a velocity at
the start of at least seven miles a second in order to go free into space. It would at first
sight seem that we should be able to reckon whether volcanoes can propel earth matter upward
with this speed. In fact, however, sufficient data are not obtainable; we only know in a general
way that the column of vapour rises to the height of thirty or forty thousand feet, and this
in eruptions of no great magnitude. In an accident such as that at Krakatoa, even if an observer
were near enough to see clearly what was going on, the chance of his surviving the disturbance
would be small. Moreover, the ascending vapours, owing to their expansion of the steam in the
column, begin to fly out sideways on its periphery, so that the upper part of the central section
in the discharge is not visible from the earth.

It is in the central section of the uprushing mass, if anywhere, that the dust might attain
the height necessary to put it beyond the earth's attraction, bringing it fairly into the realm
of the solar system, or to the position where its own motion and the attraction of the other
spheres would give it an independent orbital movement about the sun, or perhaps about the earth.
We can only say that observations on the height of volcanic ejections are extremely desirable;
they can probably only be made from a balloon. An ascension thus made beyond the cloud disk
which the eruption produces might bring the observer where he could discern enough to determine
the matter. Although the movements of the rocky particles could not be observed, the colour
which they would give to the heavens might tell the story which we wish to know. There is evidence
that large masses of stone hurled up by volcanic eruption have fallen seven miles from the
base of the cone. Assuming that the masses went straight upward at the beginning of their ascent,
and that they were afterward borne outwardly by the expansion of the column, computations which
have a general but no absolute value appear to indicate that the masses attained a height of
from thirty to fifty miles, and had an initial velocity which, if doubled, might have carried
them into space.

Last of all, we shall note the conditions which attend the eruptions of submarine volcanoes.
Such explosions have been observed in but a few instances, and only in those cases where there
is reason to believe that the crater at the time of its explosion had attained to within a
few hundred feet of the sea level. In these cases the ejections, never as yet observed in the
state of lava, but in the condition of dust and pumice, have occasionally formed a low island,
which has shortly been washed away by the waves. Knowing as we do that volcanoes abound on
the sea floor, the question why we do not oftener see their explosions disturbing the surface
of the waters is very interesting, but not as yet clearly explicable. It is possible, however,
that a volcanic discharge taking place at the depth of several thousand feet below the surface
of the water would not be able to blow the fluid aside so as to open a pipe to the surface,
but would expend its energy in a hidden manner near the ocean floor. The vapours would have
to expand gradually, as they do in passing up through the rock pipe of a volcano, and in their
slow upward passage might be absorbed by the water. The solid materials thrown forth would
in this case necessarily fall close about the vent, and create a very steep cone, such, indeed,
as we find indicated by the soundings off certain volcanic islands which appear only recently
to have overtopped the level of the waters.

As will be seen, though inadequately from the diagrams of Vesuvius, volcanic cones have a regularity
and symmetry of form far exceeding that afforded by the outlines of any other of the earth's
features. Where, as is generally the case, the shape of the cone is determined by the distribution
of the falling cinders or divided lava which constitutes the mass of most cones, the slope
is in general that known as a catenary curve--i.e., the line formed by a chain hanging between
two points at some distance from the vertical. It is interesting to note that this graceful
outline is a reflection or consequence of the curve described by the uprushing vapour. The
expansion in the ascending column causes it to enlarge at a somewhat steadfast rate, while
the speed of the ascent is ever diminishing. Precisely the same action can be seen in the like
rush of steam and other gases and vapours from the cannon's mouth; only in the case of the
gun, even of the greatest size, we can not trace the movement for more than a few hundred feet.
In this column of ejection the outward movement from the centre carries the bits of lava outwardly
from the centre of the shaft, so that when they lose their ascending velocity they are drawn
downward upon the flanks of the cone, the amount falling upon each part of that surface being
in a general way proportional to the thickness of the vaporous mass from which they descend.
The result is, that the thickest part of the ash heap is formed on the upper part of the crater,
from which point the deposit fades away in depth in every direction. In a certain measure the
concentration toward the centre of the cone is brought about by the draught of air which moves
in toward the ascending column.

Although, in general, ejections of volcanic matter take place through cones, that being the
inevitable form produced by the escaping steam, very extensive outpourings of lava, ejections
which in mass probably far exceed those thrown forth through ordinary craters, are occasionally
poured out through fissures in the earth's crust. Thus in Oregon, Idaho, and Washington, in
eastern Europe, in southern India, and at some other points, vast flows, which apparently took
place from fissures, have inundated great realms with lava ejections. The conditions which
appear to bring about these fissure eruptions of lava are not yet well understood. A provisional
and very probable account of the action can be had in the hypothesis which will now be set forth.

Where any region has been for a long time the seat of volcanic action, it is probable that
a large amount of rock in a more or less fluid condition exists beneath its surface. Although
the outrushing steam ejects much of this molten material, there are reasons to suppose that
a yet greater part lies dormant in the underground spaces. Thus in the case of Ætna we have
seen that, though some thousands of miles of rock matter have come forth, the base of the cone
has been uplifted, probably by the moving to that region of more or less fluid rock. If now
a region thus underlaid by what we may call incipient lavas is subjected to the peculiar compressive
actions which lead to mountain-building, we should naturally expect that such soft material
would be poured forth, possibly in vast quantities through fault fissures, which are so readily
formed in all kinds of rock when subject to irregular and powerful strains, such as are necessarily
brought about when rocks are moved in mountain-making. The great eruptions which formed the
volcanic table-lands on the west coast of North America appear to have owed the extrusion of
their materials to mountain-building actions. This seems to have been the case also in some
of those smaller areas where fissure flows occur in Europe. It is likely that this action will
explain the greater part of these massive eruptions.

It need not be supposed that the rock beneath these countries, which when forced out became
lava, was necessarily in the state of perfect fluidity before it was forced through the fissures.
Situated at great depth in the earth, it was under a pressure so great that its particles may
have been so brought together that the material was essentially solid, though free to move
under the great strains which affected it, and acquiring temperature along with the fluidity
which heat induces as it was forced along by the mountain-building pressure. As an illustration
of how materials may become highly heated when forced to move particle on particle, it may
be well to cite the case in which the iron stringpiece on top of a wooden dam near Holyoke,
Mass., was affected when the barrier went away in a flood. The iron stringer, being very well
put together, was, it is said, drawn out by the strain until it became sensibly reddened by
the motion of its particles, and finally fell hissing into the waters below. A like heating
is observable when metal is drawn out in making wire. Thus a mass of imperfectly fluid rock
might in a forced journey of a few miles acquire a decided increase of temperature.

Although the most striking volcanic action--all such phenomena, indeed, as commonly receives
the name--is exhibited finally on the earth's surface, a great deal of work which belongs in
the same group of geological actions is altogether confined to the deep-lying rock, and leads
to the formation of dikes which penetrate the strata, but do not rise to the open air. We have
already noted the fact that dikes abound in the deeper parts of volcanic cones, though the
fissures into which they find their way are seldom riven up to the surface. In the same way
beneath the ground in non-volcanic countries we may discover at a great depth in the older,
much-changed rock a vast number of these crevices, varying from a few inches to a hundred feet
or more in width, which have been filled with lavas, the rock once molten having afterward
cooled. In most cases these dikes are disclosed to us through the down-wearing of the earth
that has removed the beds into which the dikes did not penetrate, thus disclosing the realm
in which the disturbances took place.

Where, as is occasionally the case in deep mines, or on some bare rocky cliff of great height,
we can trace a dike in its upward course through a long distance, we find that we can never
distinctly discover the lower point of its extension. No one has ever seen in a clear way the
point of origin of such an injection. We can, however, often follow it upward to the place
where there was no longer a rift into which it could enter. In its upward path the molten matter
appears generally to have followed some previously existing fracture, a joint plane or a fault,
which generally runs through the rocks on those planes. We can observe evidence that the material
was in the state of igneous fluidity by the fact that it has baked the country rocks on either
side of the fissure, the amount of baking being in proportion to the width of the dike, and
thus to the amount of heat which it could give forth. A dike six inches in diameter will sometimes
barely sear its walls, while one a hundred feet in width will often alter the strata for a
great distance on either side. In some instances, as in the coal beds near Richmond, Va., dikes
occasionally cut through beds of bituminous coal. In these cases we find that the coal has
been converted into coke for many feet either side of a considerable injection. The fact that
the dike material was molten is still further shown by the occurrence in it of fragments which
it has taken up from the walls, and which may have been partly melted, and in most cases have
clearly been much heated.

Where dikes extend up through stratified beds which are separated from each other by distinct
layers, along which the rock is not firmly bound together, it now and then happens, as noted
by Mr. G.K. Gilbert, of the United States Geological Survey, that the lava has forced its way
horizontally between these layers, gradually uplifting the overlying mass, which it did not
break through, into a dome-shaped elevation. These side flows from dikes are termed laccolites,
a word which signifies the pool-like nature of the stony mass which they form between the strata.

In many regions, where the earth has worn down so as to reveal the zone of dikes which was
formed at a great depth, the surface of the country is fairly laced with these intrusions.
Thus on Cape Ann, a rocky isle on the east coast of Massachusetts, having an area of about
twenty square miles, the writer, with the assistance of his colleague, Prof. R.S. Tarr, found
about four hundred distinct dikes exhibited on the shore line where the rocks had been swept
bare by the waves. If the census of these intrusions could have been extended over the whole
island, it would probably have appeared that the total number exceeded five thousand. In other
regions square miles can be found where the dikes intercepted by the surface occupy an aggregate
area greater than that of the rocks into which they have been intruded.

Now and then, but rarely, the student of dikes finds one where the bordering walls, in place
of having the clean-cut appearance which they usually exhibit, has its sides greatly worn away
and much melted, as if by the long-continued passage of the igneous fluid through the crevice.
Such dikes are usually very wide, and are probably the paths through which lavas found their
way to the surface of the earth, pouring forth in a volcanic eruption. In some cases we can
trace their relation to ancient volcanic cones which have worn down in all their part which
were made up of incoherent materials, so that there remains only the central pipe, which has
been preserved from decay by the coherent character of the lava which filled it.

The hypothesis that dikes are driven upward into strata by the pressure of the beds which overlie
materials hot and soft enough to be put in motion when a fissure enters them, and that their
movement upward through the crevice is accounted for by this pressure, makes certain features
of these intrusions comprehensible. Seeing that very long, slender dikes are found penetrating
the rock, which could not have had a high temperature, it becomes difficult to understand how
the lava could have maintained its fluidity; but on the supposition that it was impelled forward
by a strong pressure, and that the energy thus transmitted through it was converted into heat,
we discover a means whereby it could have been retained in the liquid condition, even when
forced for long distances through very narrow channels. Moreover, this explanation accounts
for the fact which has long remained unexplained that dikes, except those formed about volcanic
craters, rarely, if ever, rise to the surface.

The materials contained in dikes differ exceedingly in their chemical and mineral character.
These variations are due to the differences in Nature of the deposits whence they come, and
also in a measure to exchanges which take place between their own substance and that of the
rocks between which they are deposited. This process often has importance of an economic kind,
for it not infrequently leads to the formation of metalliferous veins or other aggregations
of ores, either in the dike itself or in the country rock. The way in which this is brought
about may be easily understood by a familiar example. If flesh be placed in water which has
the same temperature, no exchange of materials will take place; but if the water be heated,
a circulation will be set up, which in time will bring a large part of the soluble matter into
the surrounding water. This movement is primarily dependent on differences of temperature,
and consequently differences in the quantity of soluble substances which the water seeks to
take up. When a dike is injected into cooler rocks, such a slow circulation is induced. The
water contained in the interstices of the stone becomes charged with mineral materials, if
such exist in positions where it can obtain possession of them, and as cooling goes on, these
dissolved materials are deposited in the manner of veins. These veins are generally laid down
on the planes of contact between the two kinds of stone, but they may be formed in any other
cavities which exist in the neighbourhood. The formation of such veins is often aided by the
considerable shrinkage of the lava in the dike, which, when it cools, tends to lose about fifteen
per cent of its volume, and is thus likely to leave a crevice next the boundary walls. Ores
thus formed afford some of the commonest and often the richest mineral deposits. At Leadville,
in Colorado, the great silver-bearing lodes probably were produced in this manner, wherein
lavas, either those of dikes or those which flowed in the open air, have come in contact with
limestones. The mineral materials originally in the once molten rock or in the limy beds was,
we believe, laid down on ancient sea floors in the remains of organic forms, which for their
particular uses took the materials from the old sea water. The vein-making action has served
to assemble these scattered bits of metal into the aggregation which constitutes a workable
deposit. In time, as the rocks wear down, the materials of the veins are again taken into solution
and returned to the sea, thence perhaps to tread again the cycle of change.

In certain dikes, and sometimes also, perhaps, in lavas known as basalts, which have flowed
on the surface, the rock when cooling, from the shrinkage which then occurs, has broken in
a very regular way, forming hexagonal columns which are more or less divided on their length
by joints. When worn away by the agencies of decay, especially where the material forms steep
cliffs, a highly artificial effect is produced, which is often compared, where cut at right
angles to the columns, to pavements, or, where the division is parallel to the columns, to
the pipes of an organ.

What we know of dikes inclines us to the opinion that as a whole they represent movements of
softened rock where the motion-compelling agent is not mainly the expansion of the contained
water which gives rise to volcanic ejection, but rather in large part due to the weight of
superincumbent strata setting in motion materials which were somewhat softened, and which tended
to creep, as do the clays in deep coal mines. It is evident, however; it is, moreover, quite
natural, that dike work is somewhat mingled with that produced by the volcanic forces; but
while the line between the two actions is not sharp, the discrimination is important, and occurs
with a distinctness rather unusual on the boundary line between two adjacent fields of phenomena.

                  *       *       *       *       *

We have now to consider the general effects of the earth's interior heat so far as that body
of temperature tends to drive materials from the depths of the earth to the surface. This group
of influences is one of the most important which operates on our sphere; as we shall shortly
see, without such action the earth would in time become an unfit theatre for the development
of organic life. To perceive the effect of these movements, we must first note that in the
great rock-constructing realm of the seas organic life is constantly extracting from the water
substances, such as lime, potash, soda, and a host of other substances necessary for the maintenance
of high-grade organisms, depositing these materials in the growing strata. Into these beds,
which are buried as fast as they form, goes not only these earthy materials, but a great store
of the sea water as well. The result would be in course of time a complete withdrawal into
the depths of the earth of those substances which play a necessary part in organic development.
The earth would become more or less completely waterless on its surface, and the rocks exposed
to view would be composed mainly of silica, the material which to a great extent resists solution,
and therefore avoids the dissolving which overtakes most other kinds of rocks. Here comes in
the machinery of the hot springs, the dikes, and the volcanoes. These agents, operating under
the influence of the internal heat of the earth, are constantly engaged in bearing the earthy
matter, particularly its precious more solvent parts, back to the surface. The hot springs
and volcanoes work swiftly and directly, and return the water, the carbon dioxide, and a host
of other vaporizable and soluble and fusible substances to the realm of solar activity, to
the living surface zone of the earth. The dikes operate less immediately, but in the end to
the same effect. They lift their materials miles above the level where they were originally
laid, probably from a zone which is rarely if ever exposed to view, placing them near the surface,
where the erosive agents can readily find access to them.

Of the three agents which serve to export earth materials from its depths, volcanoes are doubtless
the most important. They send forth the greater part of the water which is expelled from the
rocks. Various computations which the writer has made indicate that an ordinary volcano, such
as Ætna, in times of most intense explosion, may send forth in the form of steam one fourth
of a cubic mile or more of water during each day of its discharge, and in a single great eruption
may pour forth several times this quantity. In its history Ætna has probably returned to the
atmosphere some hundred cubic miles of water which but for the process would have remained
permanently locked up in its rock prison.

The ejection of rock material, though probably on the average less in quantity than the water
which escapes, is also of noteworthy importance. The volcanoes of Java and the adjacent isles
have, during the last hundred and twenty years, delivered to the seas more earth material than
has been carried into those basins by the great rivers. If we could take account of all the
volcanic ejections which have occurred in this time, we should doubtless find that the sum
of the materials thus cast forth into the oceans was several times as great as that which was
delivered from the lands by all the superficial agents which wear them away. Moreover, while
the material from the land, except the small part which is in a state of complete solution,
all falls close to the shore, the volcanic waste, because of its fine division or because of
the blebs of air which its masses contain, may float for many years before it finds its way
to the bottom, it may be at the antipodes of the point at which it came from the earth. While
thus journeying through the sea the rock matter from the volcanoes is apt to become dissolved
in water; it is, indeed, doubtful if any considerable part of that which enters the ocean goes
by gravitation to its floor. The greater portion probably enters the state of solution and
makes its way thence through the bodies of plants and animals again into the ponderable state.

If an observer could view the earth from the surface of the moon, he would probably each day
behold one of these storms which the volcanoes send forth. In the fortnight of darkness, even
with the naked eye, it would probably be possible to discern at any time several eruptions,
some of which would indicate that the earth's surface was ravaged by great catastrophes. The
nearer view of these actions shows us that although locally and in small measure they are harmful
to the life of the earth, they are in a large way beneficent.

                           CHAPTER VIII.

                             THE SOIL.

The frequent mention which it has been necessary to make of soil phenomena in the preceding
chapters shows how intimately this feature in the structure of the earth is blended with all
the elements of its physical history. It is now necessary for us to take up the phenomena of
soils in a consecutive manner.

The study of any considerable river basin enables us to trace the more important steps which
lead to the destructure and renovation of the earth's detrital coating. In such an interpretation
we note that everywhere the rocks which were built on the sea bottom, and more or less made
over in the great laboratory of the earth's interior, are at the surface, when exposed to the
conditions of the atmosphere, in process of being taken to pieces and returned to the sea.
This action goes on everywhere; every drop of rain helps it. It is aided by frost, or even
by the changes of expansion and contraction which occur in the rocks from variations of heat.
The result is that, except where the slopes are steep, the surface is quickly covered with
a layer of fragments, all of which are in the process of decay, and ready to afford some food
to plants. Even where the rock appears bare, it is generally covered with lichens, which, adhering
to it, obtain a share of nutriment from the decayed material which they help to hold on the
slope. When they have retained a thin sheet of the débris, mosses and small flowering plants
help the work of retaining the detritus. Soon the strong-rooted bushes and trees win a foothold,
and by sending their rootlets, which are at first small but rapidly enlarge, into the crevices,
they hasten the disruption of the stones.

If the construction of soil goes on upon a steep cliff, the quantity retained on the slope
may be small, but at the base we find a talus, composed of the fragments not held by the vegetation,
which gradually increases as the cliff wears down, until the original precipice may be quite
obliterated beneath a soil slope. At first this process is rapid; it becomes gradually slower
and slower as the talus mounts up the cliff and as the cliff loses its steepness, until finally
a gentle slope takes the place of the steep.

From the highest points in any river valley to the sea level the broken-up rock, which we term
soil, is in process of continuous motion. Everywhere the rain water, flowing over the surface
or soaking through the porous mass, is conveying portions of the material which is taken into
solution in a speedy manner to the sea. Everywhere the expansion of the soil in freezing, or
the movements imposed on it by the growth of roots, by the overturning of trees, or by the
innumerable borings and burrowings which animals make in the mass, is through the action of
gravitation slowly working down the slope. Every little disturbance of the grains or fragments
of the soil which lifts them up causes them when they fall to descend a little way farther
toward the sea level. Working toward the streams, the materials of the soil are in time delivered
to those flowing waters, and by them urged speedily, though in most cases interruptedly, toward
the ocean.

There is another element in the movement of the soils which, though less appreciable, is still
of great importance. The agents of decay which produce and remove the detritus, the chemical
changes of the bed rock, and the mechanical action which roots apply to them, along with the
solutional processes, are constantly lowering the surface of the mass. In this way we can often
prove that a soil continuously existing has worked downward through many thousand feet of strata.
In this process of downgoing the country on which the layer rests may have greatly changed
its form, but the deposit, under favourable conditions, may continue to retain some trace of
the materials which it derived from beds which have long since disappeared, their position
having been far up in the spaces now occupied by the air. Where the slopes are steep and streams
abound, we rarely find detritus which belonged in rock more than a hundred feet above the present
surface of the soil. Where, however, as on those isolated table-lands or buttes which abound
in certain portions of the Mississippi Valley, as well as in many other countries, we find
a patch of soil lying on a nearly level surface, which for geologic ages has not felt the effect
of streams, we may discover, commingled in the débris, the harder wreckage derived from the
decay of a thousand feet or more of vanished strata.

When we consider the effect of organic life on the processes which go on in the soil, we first
note the large fact that the development of all land vegetation depends upon the existence
of this detritus--in a word, on the slow movement of the decaying rocky matter from the point
where it is disrupted to its field of rest in the depths of the sea. The plants take their
food from the portion of this rocky waste which is brought into solution by the waters which
penetrate the mass. On the plants the animals feed, and so this vast assemblage of organisms
is maintained. Not only does the land life maintain itself on the soil, and give much to the
sea, but it serves in various ways to protect this detrital coating from too rapid destruction,
and to improve its quality. To see the nature of this work we should visit a region where primeval
forests still lie upon the slopes of a hilly region. In the body of such a wood we find next
the surface a coating of decayed vegetable matter, made up of the falling leaves, bark, branches,
and trunks which are constantly descending to the earth. Ordinarily, this layer is a foot or
more in thickness; at the top it is almost altogether composed of vegetable matter; at the
bottom it verges into the true soil. An important effect of this decayed vegetation is to restrain
the movement of the surface water. Even in the heaviest rains, provided the mass be not frozen,
the water is taken into it and delivered in the manner of springs to the larger streams. We
can better note the measure of this effect by observing the difference in the ground covered
by this primeval forest and that which we find near by which has been converted into tilled
fields. With the same degree of rapidity in the flow, the distinct stream channels on the tilled
ground are likely to be from twenty to a hundred times in length what they are on the forest
bed. The result is that while the brook which drains the forested area maintains a tolerably
constant flow of clean water, the other from the tilled ground courses only in times of heavy
rain, and then is heavily charged with mud. In the virgin conditions of the soil the downwear
is very slow; in its artificial state this wearing goes on so rapidly that the sloping fields
are likely to be worn to below the soil level in a few score years.

Not only does the natural coating of vegetation, such as our forests impose upon the country,
protect the soil from washing away, but the roots of the larger plants are continually at work
in various ways to increase the fertility and depth of the stratum. In the form of slender
fibrils these underground branches enter the joints and bed planes of the rock, and there growing
they disrupt the materials, giving them a larger surface on which decay may operate. These
bits, at first of considerable size, are in turn broken up by the same action. Where the underlying
rocks afford nutritious materials, the branches of our tap-rooted trees sometimes find their
way ten feet or more below the base of the true soil. Not only do they thus break up the stones,
but the nutrition which they obtain in the depths is brought up and deposited in the parts
above the ground, as well as in the roots which lie in the true soil, so that when the tree
dies it becomes available for other plants. Thus in the forest condition of a country the amount
of rock material contributed to the deposit in general so far exceeds that which is taken away
to the rivers by the underground water as to insure the deepening of the soil bed to the point
where only the strongest roots--those belonging to our tap-rooted trees--can penetrate through
it to the bed rocks.

Almost all forests are from time to time visited by winds which uproot the trees. When they
are thus rent from the earth, the underground branches often form a disk containing a thick
tangle of stones and earth, and having a diameter of ten or fifteen feet. The writer has frequently
observed a hundred cubic feet of soil matter, some of it taken from the depth of a yard or
more, thus uplifted into the air. In the path of a hurricane or tornado we may sometimes find
thousands of acres which have been subjected to this rude overturning--a natural ploughing.
As the roots rot away, the débris which they held falls outside of the pit, thus forming a
little hillock along the side of the cavity. After a time the thrusting action of other roots
and the slow motion of the soil down the slope restore the surface from its hillocky character
to its original smoothness; but in many cases the naturalist who has learned to discern with
his feet may note these irregularities long after it has been recovered with the forest.

Great as is the effect of plants on the soil, that influence is almost equalled by the action
of the animals which have the habit of entering the earth, finding there a temporary abiding
place. The number of these ground forms is surprisingly great. It includes, indeed, a host
of creatures which are efficient agents in enriching the earth. The species of earthworms,
some of which occupy forested districts as well as the fields, have the habit of passing the
soil material through their bodies, extracting from the mass such nutriment as it may contain.
In this manner the particles of mineral matter become pulverized, and in a measure affected
by chemical changes in the bodies of the creatures, and are thus better fitted to afford plant
food. Sometimes the amount of the earth which the creatures take in in moving through their
burrows and void upon the surface is sufficient to form annually a layer on the surface of
the ground having a depth of one twentieth of an inch or more. It thus may well happen that
the soil to the depth of two or three feet is completely overturned in the course of a few
hundred years. As the particles which the creatures devour are rather small, the tendency is
to accumulate the finer portions of the soil near the surface of the earth, where by solution
they may contribute to the needs of the lowly plants. It is probably due to the action of these
creatures that small relics of ancient men, such as stone tools, are commonly found buried
at a considerable depth beneath the earth, and rarely appear upon the surface except where
it has been subjected to deep ploughing or to the action of running streams.

Along with the earthworms, the ants labour to overturn the soil; frequently they are the more
effective of the two agents. The common species, though they make no permanent hillocks, have
been observed by the writer to lay upon the surface each year as much as a quarter of an inch
of sand and other fine materials which they have brought up from a considerable depth. In many
regions, particularly in those occupied by glacial drift, and pebbly alluvium along the rivers,
the effect of this action, like that of earthworms, is to bring to the surface the finer materials,
leaving the coarser pebbles in the depths. In this way they have changed the superficial character
of the soil over great areas; we may say, indeed, over a large part of the earth, and this
in a way which fits it better to serve the needs of the wild plants as well as the uses of
the farmer.

Many thousand species of insects, particularly the larger beetles, have the habit of passing
their larval state in the under earth. Here they generally excavate burrows, and thus in a
way delve the soil. As many of them die before reaching maturity, their store of organic matter
is contributed to the mass, and serves to nourish the plants. If the student will carefully
examine a section of the earth either in its natural or in its tilled state, he will be surprised
to find how numerous the grubs are. They may often be found to the number of a score or more
of each cubic foot of material. Many of the species which develop underground come from eggs
which have carefully been encased in organic matter before their deposition in the earth. Thus
some of the carrion beetles are in the habit of laying their eggs in the bodies of dead birds
or field mice, which they then bury to the depth of some inches in the earth. In this way nearly
all the small birds and mammals of our woods disappear from view in a few hours after they
are dead. Other species make balls from the dung of cattle in which they lay their eggs, afterward
rolling the little spheres, it may be for hundreds of feet, to the chambers in the soil which
they have previously prepared. In this way a great deal of animal matter is introduced into
the earth, and contributes to its fertility.

Many of our small mammals have the habit of making their dwelling places in the soil. Some
of them, such as the moles, normally abide in the subterranean realm for all their lives. Others
use the excavations as places of retreat. In any case, these excavations serve to move the
particles of the soil about, and the materials which the animals drag into the earth, as well
as the excrement of the creatures, act to enrich it. This habit of taking food underground
is not limited to the mammals; it is common with the ants, and even the earthworms, as noted
by Charles Darwin in his wonderful essay on these creatures, are accustomed to drag into their
burrows bits of grass and the slender leaves of pines. It is not known what purpose they attain
by these actions, but it is sufficiently common somewhat to affect the conditions of the soil.

The result of these complicated works done by animals and plants on the soil is that the material
to a considerable depth are constantly being supplied with organic matter, which, along with
the mineral material, constitutes that part of the earth which can support vegetation. Experiment
will readily show that neither crushed rock nor pure vegetable mould will of itself serve to
maintain any but the lowliest vegetation. It requires that the two materials be mixed in order
that the earth may yield food for ordinary plants, particularly for those which are of use
to man, as crops. On this account all the processes above noted whereby the waste of plant
and animal life is carried below the surface are of the utmost importance in the creation and
preservation of the soil. It has been found, indeed, in almost all cases, necessary for the
farmer to maintain the fertility of his fields to plough-in quantities of such organic waste.
By so doing he imitates the work which is effected in virgin soil by natural action. As the
process is costly in time and material, it is often neglected or imperfectly done, with the
result that the fields rapidly diminish in fertility.

The way in which the buried organic matter acts upon the soil is not yet thoroughly understood.
In part it accomplishes the results by the materials which on its decay it contributes to the
soil in a state in which they may readily be dissolved and taken up by the roots into their
sap; in part, however, it is believed that they better the conditions by affording dwelling
places for a host of lowly species, such as the forms which are known as bacteria. The organisms
probably aid in the decomposition of the mineral matter, and in the conversion of nitrogen,
which abounds in the air or the soil, into nitrates of potash and soda--substances which have
a very great value as fertilizers. Some effect is produced by the decay of the foreign matter
brought into the soil, which as it passes away leaves channels through which the soil water
can more readily pass.

By far the most general and important effect arising from the decay of organic matter in the
earth is to be found in the carbon dioxide which is formed as the oxygen of the air combines
with the carbon which all organic material contains. As before noted, water thus charged has
its capacity for taking other substances into solution vastly increased, and on this solvent
action depends in large part the decay of the bed rocks and the solution of materials which
are to be appropriated by the plants.

Having now sketched the general conditions which lead to the formation of soils, we must take
account of certain important variations in their conditions due to differences in the ways
in which they are formed and preserved. These matters are not only of interest to the geologist,
but are of the utmost importance to the life of mankind, as well as all the lower creatures
which dwell upon the lands. First, we should note that soils are divisible into three great
groups, which, though not sharply parted from each other, are sufficiently peculiar for the
purposes of classification. Where the earth material has been derived from the rocks which
nearly or immediately underlie it, we have a group of soils which may be entitled those of
immediate derivation--that is, derived from rocks near by, or from beds which once overlaid
the level and have since been decayed away. Next, we have alluvial soils, those composed of
materials which have been transported by streams, commonly from a great distance, and laid
down on their flood plains. Third, the soils the mineral matters of which have been brought
into their position by the action of glaciers; these in a way resemble those formed by rivers,
but the materials are generally imperfectly sorted, coarse and fine being mingled together.
Last of all, we have the soils due to the accumulation of blown dust or blown sand, which,
unlike the others, occupy but a small part of the land surface. It would be possible, indeed,
to make yet another division, including those areas which when emerging from the sea were covered
with fine, uncemented detritus ready at once to serve the purposes of a soil. Only here and
there, and but seldom, do we find soils of this nature.

It is characteristic of soils belonging to the group to which we have given the title of immediate
derivation that they have accumulated slowly, that they move very gradually down the slopes
on which they lie, and that in all cases they represent, with a part of their mass at least,
levels of rock which have disappeared from the region which they occupied. The additions made
to their mass are from below, and that mass is constantly shrinking, generally at a pretty
rapid rate, by the mineral matter which is dissolved and goes away with the spring water. They
also are characteristically thin on steep slopes, thickening toward the base of the incline,
where the diminished grade permits the soil to move slowly, and therefore to accumulate.

In alluvial soils we find accumulations which are characterized by growth on their upper surfaces,
and by the distant transportation of the materials of which they are composed. In these deposits
the outleaching removes vast amounts of the materials, but so long as the floods from time
to time visit their surfaces the growth of the deposits is continued. This growth rarely takes
place from the waste of the bed rocks on which the alluvium lies. It is characteristic of alluvial
soils that they are generally made up of débris derived from fields where the materials have
undergone the change which we have noted in the last paragraph; therefore these latter deposits
have throughout the character which renders the mineral materials easily dissolved. Moreover,
the mass as it is constructed is commonly mingled with a great deal of organic waste, which
serves to promote its fertility. On these accounts alluvial grounds, though they vary considerably
in fertility, commonly afford the most fruitful fields of any region. They have, moreover,
the signal advantage that they often may be refreshed by allowing the flood waters to visit
them, an action which but for the interference of man commonly takes place once each year.
Thus in the valley of the Nile there are fields which have been giving rich grain harvests
probably for more than four thousand years, without any other effective fertilizing than that
derived from the mud of the great river.

The group of glaciated soils differs in many ways from either of those mentioned. In it we
find the mineral matter to have been broken up, transported, and accumulated without the influence
of those conditions which ordinarily serve to mix rock débris with organic matter during the
process by which it is broken into bits. When vegetation came to preoccupy the fields made
desolate by glacial action, it found in most places more than sufficient material to form soils,
but the greater part of the matter was in the condition of pebbles of very hard rock and sand
grains, fragments of silex. Fortunately, the broken-up state of this material, by exposing
a great surface of the rocky matter to decay, has enabled the plants to convert a portion of
the mass into earth fit for the uses of their roots. But as the time which has elapsed since
the disappearance of the glaciers is much less than that occupied in the formation of ordinary
soil, this decay has in most cases not yet gone very far, so that in a cubic foot of glaciated
waste the amount of material available for plants is often only a fraction of that held in
the soils of immediate derivation.

In the greater portion of the fields occupied by glacial waste the processes which lead to
the introduction of organic matter into the earth have not gone far enough to set in effective
work the great laboratory which has to operate in order to give fertile soil. The pebbles hinder
the penetration of the roots as well as the movement of insects and other animals. There has
not been time enough for the overturning of trees to bring about a certain admixture of vegetable
matter with the soil--in a word, the process of soil-making, though the first condition, that
of broken-up rock, has been accomplished, is as yet very incomplete. It needs, indeed, care
in the introduction of organic matter for its completion.

It is characteristic of glacial soils that they are indefinitely deep. This often is a disadvantageous
feature, for the reason that the soil water may pass so far down into the earth that the roots
are often deprived of the moisture which they need, and which in ordinary soils is retained
near the surface by the hard underlayer. On the other hand, where the glacial waste is made
up of pebbles formed from rocks of varied chemical composition, which contain a considerable
share of lime, potash, soda, and other substances which are required by plants, the very large
surface which they expose to decay provides the soil with a continuous enrichment. In a cubic
foot of pebbly glacial earth we often find that the mass offers several hundred times as much
surface to the action of decay as is afforded by the underlying solid bed rock from which a
soil of immediate derivation has to win its mineral supply. Where the pebbly glacial waste
is provided with a mixture of vegetable matter, the process of decay commonly goes forward
with considerable rapidity. If the supply of such matter is large, such as may be produced
by ploughing in barnyard manure or green crops, the nutritive value of the earth may be brought
to a very high point.

It is a familiar experience in regions where glacial soils exist that the earth beneath the
swamps when drained is found to be extraordinarily well suited for farming purposes. On inspecting
the pebbles from such places, we observe that they are remarkably decayed. Where the masses
contain large quantities of feldspar, as is the case in the greater part of our granitic and
other crystalline rocks, this material in its decomposition is converted into kaolin or feldspar
clay, and gives the stones a peculiar white appearance, which marks the decomposition, and
indicates the process by which a great variety of valuable soil ingredients are brought into
a state where they may be available for plants.

In certain parts of the glacial areas, particularly in the region near the margin of the ice
sheet, where the glacier remained in one position for a considerable time, we find extensive
deposits of silicious sand, formed of the materials which settled from the under-ice stream,
near where they escaped from the glacial cavern. These kames and sand plains, because of the
silicious nature of their materials and the very porous nature of the soil which they afford,
are commonly sterile, or at most render a profit to the tiller by dint of exceeding care. Thus
in Massachusetts, although the first settlers seized upon these grounds, and planted their
villages upon them because the forests there were scanty and the ground free from encumbering
boulders, were soon driven to betake themselves to those areas where the drift was less silicious,
and where the pebbles afforded a share of clay. Very extensive fields of this sandy nature
in southeastern New England have never been brought under tillage. Thus on the island of Martha's
Vineyard there is a connected area containing about thirty thousand acres which lies in a very
favourable position for tillage, but has been found substantially worthless for such use. The
farmers have found it more advantageous to clear away the boulders from the coarser drift in
order to win soil which would give them fair returns.

Those areas which are occupied by soil materials which have been brought into their position
by the action of the wind may, as regards their character, be divided into two very distinct
groups--the dunes and loess deposits. In the former group, where, as we have noted (see page
123), the coarse sea sands or those from the shores of lakes are driven forward as a marching
hillock, the grains of the material are almost always silicious. The fragments in the motion
are not taken up into the air, but are blown along the surface. Such dune accumulations afford
an earth which is even more sterile than that of the glacial sand plains, where there is generally
a certain admixture of pebbles from rocks which by their decomposition may afford some elements
of fertility. Fortunately for the interests of man, these wind-borne sands occupy but a small
area; in North America, in the aggregate, there probably are not more than one thousand square
miles of such deposits.

Where the rock material drifted by the winds is so fine that it may rise into the air in the
form of dust, the accumulations made of it generally afford a fertile soil, and this for the
reason that they are composed of various kinds of rock, and not, as in the case of dunes, of
nearly pure silica. In some very rare cases, where the seashore is bordered by coral reefs,
as it is in parts of southern Florida, and the strand is made up of limestone bits derived
from the hard parts which the polyps secrete, small dunes are made of limy material. Owing,
however, in part to the relatively heavy nature of this substance, as well as to the rapid
manner in which its grains become cemented together, such limestone dunes never attain great
size nor travel any distance from their point of origin.

As before noted, dust accumulations form the soil in extended areas which lie to the leeward
of great deserts. Thus a considerable part of western China and much of the United States to
the west of the Mississippi is covered by these wind-blown earths. Wherever the rainfall is
considerable these loess deposits have proved to have a high agricultural value.

Where a region has an earth which has recently passed from beneath the sea or a great lake,
the surface is commonly covered by incoherent detritus which has escaped consolidation into
hard rock by the fact that it has not been buried and thus brought into the laboratory of the
earth's crust. When such a region becomes dry land, the materials are immediately ready to
enter into the state of soil. They commonly contain a good deal of waste derived from the organic
life which dwelt upon the sea bottom and was embedded in the strata as they were formed. Where
these accumulations are made in a lake, the land vegetation at once possesses the field, even
a single year being sufficient for it to effect its establishment. Where the lands emerge from
the sea, it requires a few years for the salt water to drain away so that the earth can be
fit for the uses of plants. In a general way these sea-bottom soils resemble those formed in
the alluvial plains. They are, however, commonly more sandy, and their substances less penetrated
by that decay which goes on very freely in the atmosphere because of the abundant supply of
oxygen, and but slowly on the sea floor. Moreover, the marine deposits are generally made up
in large part of silicious sand, a material which is produced in large quantities by the disruption
of the rocks along the sea coast. The largest single field of these ocean-bottom soils of North
America is found in the lowland region of the southern United States, a wide belt of country
extending along the coast from the Rio Grande to New York. Although the streams have channelled
shallow valleys in the beds of this region, the larger part of its surface still has the peculiar
features of form and composition which were impressed upon it when it lay below the surface
of the sea.

Local variations in the character of the soil covering are exceedingly numerous, and these
differences of condition profoundly affect the estate of man. We shall therefore consider some
of the more important of these conditions, with special reference to their origin.

The most important and distinctly marked variation in the fertility of soils is that which
is produced by differences in the rainfall. No parts of the earth are entirely lacking in rain,
but over considerable areas the precipitation does not exceed half a foot a year. In such realms
the soil is sterile, and the natural coating of vegetation limited to those plants which can
subsist on dew or which can take on an occasional growth at such times as moisture may come
upon them. With a slight increase in precipitation, the soil rapidly increases in productivity,
so that we may say that where as much as about ten inches of water enters the earth during
the summer half of the year, it becomes in a considerable measure fit for agriculture. Observations
indicate that the conditions of fertility are not satisfied where the rainfall is just sufficient
to fill the pores of the soil; there must be enough water entering the earth to bring about
a certain amount of outflow in the form of springs. The reason of this need becomes apparent
when we study the evident features of those soils which, though from season to season charged
with water, do not yield springs, but send the moisture away through the atmosphere. Wherever
these conditions occur we observe that the soil in dry seasons becomes coated with a deposit
of mineral matter, which, because of its taste, has received the name of alkali. The origin
of this coating is as follows: The pores of the soil, charged from year to year with sufficient
water to fill them, become stored with a fluid which contains a very large amount of dissolved
mineral matter--too much, indeed, to permit the roots of plants, save a few species which have
become accustomed to the conditions, to do their appointed work. In fact, this water is much
like that of the sea, which the roots of only a few of our higher plants can tolerate. When
the dry season comes on, the heat of the sun evaporates the water at the surface, leaving behind
a coating composed of the substances which the water contains. The soil below acts in the manner
of a lamp-wick to draw up fluid as rapidly as the heat burns it away. When the soil water is
as far as possible exhausted, the alkali coating may represent a considerable part of the soluble
matter of the soil, and in the next rainy season it may return in whole or in part to the under-earth,
again to be drawn in the manner before described to the upper level. It is therefore only when
a considerable share of the ground water goes forth to the streams in each year that the alkaline
materials are in quantity kept down to the point where the roots of our crop-giving plants
can make due use of the soil. Where, in an arid region, the ground can be watered from the
enduring streams or from artificial reservoirs, the main advantage arising from the process
is commonly found in the control which it gives the farmer in the amount of the soil water.
He can add to the rainfall sufficient to take away the excess of mineral matter. When such
soils are first brought under tillage it is necessary to use a large amount of water from the
canals, in order to wash away the old store of alkali. After that a comparatively small contribution
will often keep the soil in excellent condition for agriculture. It has been found, however,
in the irrigated lands beside the Nile that where too much saving is practised in the irrigation,
the alkaline coating will appear where it has been unknown before, and with it an unfitness
of the earth to bear crops.

Although the crust of mineral matters formed in the manner above described is characteristic
of arid countries, and in general peculiar to them, a similar deposit may under peculiar conditions
be formed in regions of great rainfall. Thus on the eastern coast of New England, where the
tidal marshes have here and there been diked from the sea and brought under tillage, the dissolved
mineral matters of the soil, which are excessive in quantity, are drawn to the surface, forming
a coating essentially like that which is so common in arid regions. The writer has observed
this crust on such diked lands, having a thickness of an eighth of an inch. In fact, this alkali
coating represents merely the extreme operation of a process which is going on in all soils,
and which contributes much to their fertility. When rain falls and passes downward into the
earth, it conveys the soluble matter to a depth below the surface, often to beyond the point
where our ordinary crop plants, such as the small grains, can have access to it, and this for
the reason that their roots do not penetrate deeply. When dry weather comes and evaporation
takes place from the surface, the fluid is drawn up to the upper soil layer, and there, in
process of evaporation, deposits the dissolved materials which it contains. Thus the mineral
matter which is fit for plant food is constantly set in motion, and in its movement passes
the rootlets of the plants. It is probably on this account--at least in part--that very wet
weather is almost as unfavourable to the farmer as exceedingly dry, the normal alternation
in the conditions being, as is well known, best suited to his needs.

So long as the earth is subjected to conditions in which the rainfall may bring about a variable
amount of water in the superficial detrital layer, we find normal fruitful soils, though in
their more arid conditions they may be fit for but few species of plants. When, by increasing
aridity, we pass to conditions where there is no tolerably permanent store of water in the
débris, the material ceases to have the qualities of a soil, and becomes mere rock waste. At
the other extreme of the scale we pass to conditions where the water is steadfastly maintained
in the interstices of the detritus, and there again the characteristic of the soil and its
fitness for the uses of land vegetation likewise disappear. In a word, true soil conditions
demand the presence of moisture, but that in insufficient quantities, to keep the pores of
the earth continually filled; where they are thus filled, we have the condition of swamps.
Between these extremes the level at which the water stands in the soil in average seasons is
continually varying. In rainy weather it may rise quite to the surface; in a dry season it
may sink far down. As this water rises and falls, it not only moves, as before noted, the soluble
mineral materials, but it draws the air into and expels it from the earth with each movement.
This atmospheric circulation of the soil, as has been proved by experiment, is of great importance
in maintaining its fertility; the successive charges of air supply the needs of the microscopic
underground creatures which play a large part in enriching the soil, and the direct effect
of the oxygen in promoting decay is likewise considerable. A part of the work which is accomplished
by overturning the earth in tillage consists in this introduction of the air into the pores
of the soil, where it serves to advance the actions which bring mineral matters into solution.

In the original conditions of any country which is the seat of considerable rainfall, and where
the river system is not so far developed as to provide channels for the ready exit of the waters,
we commonly find very extensive swamps; these conditions of bad drainage almost invariably
exist where a region has recently been elevated above the level of the sea, and still retains
the form of an irregular rolling plain common to sea floors, and also in regions where the
work done by glaciers has confused the drainage which the antecedent streams may have developed.
In an old, well-elaborated river system swamps are commonly absent, or, if they occur, are
due to local accidents of an unimportant nature.

For our purpose swamps may be divided into three groups--climbing bogs, lake bogs, and marine
marshes. The first two of these groups depend on the movements of the rain water over the land;
the third on the action of the tides. Beginning our account with the first and most exceptional
of these groups, we note the following features in their interesting history:

Wherever in a humid region, on a gentle slope--say with an inclination not exceeding ten feet
to the mile--the soil is possessed by any species of plants whose stems grow closely together,
so that from their decayed parts a spongelike mass is produced, we have the conditions which
favour the development of climbing bogs. Beginning usually in the shores of a pool, these plants,
necessarily of a water-loving species, retain so much moisture in the spongy mass which they
form that they gradually extend up the slope. Thus extending the margin of their field, and
at the same time thickening the deposit which they form, these plants may build a climbing
bog over the surface until steeps are attained where the inclination is so great that the necessary
amount of water can not be held in the spongy mass, or where, even if so held, the whole coating
will in time slip down in the manner of an avalanche.

The greater part of the climbing bogs of the world are limited to the moist and cool regions
of high latitudes, where species of moss belonging to the genus Sphagnum plentifully flourish.
These plants can only grow where they are continuously supplied with a bath of water about
their roots. They develop in lake bogs as far south as Mexico, but in the climbing form they
are hardly traceable south of New England, and are nowhere extensively developed within the
limits of the United States. In more northern parts of this continent, and in northwestern
Europe, particularly in the moist climate of Ireland, climbing bogs occupy great areas, and
hold up their lakes of interstitially contained water over the slopes of hills, where the surface
rises at the rate of thirty feet or more to the mile. So long as the deposit of decayed vegetable
matter which has accumulated in this manner is thin, therefore everywhere penetrated by the
fibrous roots of the moss, it may continue to cling to its sloping bed; but when it attains
a considerable thickness, and the roots in the lower part decay, the pulpy mass, water-laden
in some time of heavy rain, break away in a vast torrent of thick, black mud, which may inundate
the lower lands, causing widespread destruction.

In more southern countries, other water-loving plants lead to the formation of climbing bogs.
Of these, the commonest and most effective are the species of reeds, of which our Indian cane
is a familiar example. Brakes of this vegetation, plentifully mingled with other species of
aquatic growth, form those remarkable climbing bogs known as the Dismal and other swamps, which
numerously occur along the coast line of the United States from southern Maryland to eastern
Texas. Climbing bogs are particularly interesting, not only from the fact that they are eminently
peculiar effects of plant growth, but because they give us a vivid picture of those ancient
morasses in which grew the plants that formed the beds of vegetable matter now appearing in
the state of coal. Each such bed of buried swamp material was, with rare exceptions, where
the accumulation took place in lakes, gathered in climbing bogs such as we have described.

Lake bogs occur in all parts of the world, but in their best development are limited to relatively
high latitudes, and this for the reason that the plants which form vegetable matter grow most
luxuriantly in cool climates and in regions where the level of the basin is subject to less
variation than occurs in the alternating wet and dry seasons which exist in nearly all tropical
regions. The fittest conditions are found in glaciated regions, where, as before noted, small
lakes are usually very abundant. On the shores of one of these pools, of size not so great
that the waves may attain a considerable height, or in the sheltered bay of a larger lake,
various aquatic plants, especially the species of pond lilies, take root upon the bottom, and
spread their expanded leaves on the surface of the water. These flexible-leaved and elastic-stemmed
plants can endure waves which attain no more than a foot or two of height, and by the friction
which they afford make the swash on the shore very slight. In the quiet water, rushes take
root, and still further protect the strand, so that the very delicate vegetation of the mosses,
such as the Sphagnum, can fix itself on the shore.

As soon as the Sphagnum mat has begun its growth, the strength given by its interlaced fibres
enables it to extend off from the shore and float upon the water. In this way it may rapidly
enlarge, if not broken up by the waves, so that its front advances into the lake at the rate
of several inches each year. While growing outwardly it thickens, so that the bottom of the
mass gradually works down toward the floor of the basin. At the same time the lower part of
the sheet, decaying, contributes a shower of soft peat mud to the floor of the lake. In this
way, growing at its edge, deepening, and contributing to an upgrowth from the bottom, a few
centuries may serve entirely to fill a deep basin with peaty accumulation. In general, however,
the surface of the bog closes over the lake before the accumulation has completely filled the
shoreward portions of the area. In these conditions we have what is familiarly known as a quaking
bog, which can be swayed up and down by a person who quickly stoops and rises while standing
on the surface. In this state the tough and thick sheet of growing plants is sufficient to
uphold a considerable weight, but so elastic that the underlying water can be thrown into waves.
Long before the bog has completely filled the lake with the peaty accumulations the growth
of trees is apt to take place on its surface, which often reduces the area to the appearance
of a very level wet wood.

Climbing and lake bogs in the United States occupy a total area of more than fifty thousand
square miles. In all North America the total area is probably more than twice as great. Similar
deposits are exceedingly common in the Eurasian continent and in southern Patagonia. It is
probable that the total amount of these fields in different parts of the world exceeds half
a million square miles. These two groups of fresh-water swamps have an interest, for the reason
that when reduced to cultivation by drainage and by subsequent removal of the excess of peaty
matter, by burning or by natural decay, afford very rich soil. The fairest fields of northern
Europe, particularly in Great Britain and Ireland, have been thus won to tillage. In the first
centuries of our era a large part of England--perhaps as much as one tenth of the ground now
tilled in that country--was occupied by these lands, which retained water in such measure as
to make them unfit for tillage, the greater portion of this area being in the condition of
thin climbing bog. For many centuries much of the energy of the people was devoted to the reclamation
of these valuable lands. This task of winning the swamp lands to agriculture has been more
completely accomplished in England than elsewhere, but it has gone far on the continent of
Europe, particularly in Germany. In the United States, owing to the fact that lands have been
cheap, little of this work of swamp-draining has as yet been accomplished. It is likely that
the next great field of improvement to be cultivated by the enterprising people will be found
in these excessively humid lands, from which the food-giving resources for the support of many
million people can be won.

The group of marine marshes differs in many important regards from those which are formed in
fresh water. Where the tide visits any coast line, and in sheltered positions along that shore,
a number of plants, mostly belonging to the group of grasses, species which have become accustomed
to having their roots bathed by salt water, begin the formation of a spongy mat, which resembles
that composed of Sphagnum, only it is much more solid. This mat of the marine marshes soon
attains a thickness of a foot or more, the upper or growing surface lying in a position where
it is covered for two or three hours at each visit of the tide. Growing rapidly outward from
the shore, and having a strength which enables it to resist in a tolerably effective manner
waves not more than two or three feet high, this accumulation makes head against the sea. To
a certain extent the waves undermine the front of the sheet and break up masses of it, which
they distribute over the shallow bottom below the level at which these plants can grow. In
this deeper water, also, other marine animals and plants are continually developing, and their
remains are added to the accumulations which are ever shallowing the water, thus permitting
a further extension of the level, higher-lying marsh. This process continues until the growth
has gone as far as the scouring action of the tidal currents will permit. In the end the bay,
originally of wide-open water, is only such at high tide. For the greater part of the time
it appears as broad savannas, whose brilliant green gives them the aspect of rare fertility.

Owing to the conditions of their growth, the deposits formed in marine marshes contain no distinct
peat, the nearest approach to that substance being the tangle of wirelike roots which covers
the upper foot or so of the accumulation. The greater part of the mass is composed of fine
silt, brought in by the streams of land water which discharge into the basin, and by the remains
of animals which dwelt upon the bottom or between the stalks of the plants that occupy the
surface of the marshes. These interspaces afford admirable shelter to a host of small marine
forms. The result is, that the tidal marshes, as well as the lower-lying mud flats, which have
been occupied by the mat of vegetation, afford admirable earth for tillage. Unfortunately,
however, there are two disadvantages connected with the redemption of such lands. In the first
place, it is necessary to exclude the sea from the area, which can only be accomplished by
considerable engineering work; in the second place, the exclusion of the tide inevitably results
in the silting up of the passage by which the water found its way to the sea. As these openings
are often used for harbours, the effect arising from their destruction is often rather serious.
Nevertheless, in some parts of the world very extensive and most fertile tracts of land have
thus been won from the sea; a large part of Holland and shore-land districts in northern Europe
are made up of fields which were originally covered by the tide. Near the mouth of the Rhine,
indeed, the people have found these sea-bottom soils so profitable that they have gone beyond
the zone of the marshes, and have drained considerable seas which of old were permanently covered,
even at the lowest level of the waters.

On the coast of North America marine marshes have an extensive development, and vary much in
character. In the Bay of Fundy, where the tides have an altitude of fifty feet or more, the
energy of their currents is such that the marsh mat rarely forms. Its place, however, is taken
by vast and ever-changing mud flats, the materials of which are swept to and fro by the moving
waters. The people of this region have learned an art of a peculiar nature, by which they win
broad fields of excellent land from the sea. Selecting an area of the flats, the surface of
which has been brought to within a few feet of high tide, they inclose it with a stout barrier
or dike, which has openings for the free admission of the tidal waters. Entering this basin,
the tide, moving with considerable velocity, bears in quantities of sediment. In the basin,
the motion being arrested, this sediment falls to the bottom, and serves to raise its level.
In a few months the sheet of sediment is brought near the plane of the tidal movement, then
the gates are closed at times when the tide has attained half of its height, so that the ground
within the dike is not visited by the sea water, and can be cultivated.

Along the coast of New England the ordinary marine marshes attain an extensive development
in the form of broad-grassed savannas. With this aspect, though with a considerable change
in the plants which they bear, the fringe of savannas continues southward along the coast to
northern Florida. In the region about the mouth of the Savannah River, so named from the vast
extent of the tidal marshes, these fields attain their greatest development. In central and
southern Florida, however, where the seacoast is admirably suited for their development, these
coastal marshes of the grassy type disappear, their place being taken by the peculiar morasses
formed by the growth of the mangrove tree.

In the mangrove marshes the tree which gives the areas their name covers all the field which
is visited by the tide. This tree grows with its crown supported on stiltlike roots, at a level
above high tide. From its horizontal branches there grow off roots, which reach downward into
the water, and thence to the bottom. The seeds of the mangrove are admirably devised so as
to enable the plant to obtain a foothold on the mud flats, even where they are covered at low
tide with a depth of two or three feet of water. They are several inches in length, and arranged
with booklets at their lower ends; floating near the bottom, they thus catch upon it, and in
a few weeks' growth push the shoot to the level of the water, thus affording a foundation for
a new plantation. In this manner, extending the old forests out into the shallow water of the
bays, and forming new colonies wherever the water is not too deep, these plants rapidly occupy
all the region which elsewhere would appear in the form of savannas.

The tidal marshes of North America, which may be in time converted to the uses of man, probably
occupy an area exceeding twenty thousand square miles. If the work of reclaiming such lands
from the sea ever attains the advance in this country that it has done in Holland, the area
added to the dry land by engineering devices may amount to as much as fifty thousand square
miles--a territory rather greater than the surface of Kentucky, and with a food-yielding power
at least five times as great as is afforded by that fertile State. In fact, these conquests
from the sea are hereafter to be among the great works which will attract the energies of mankind.
In the arid region of the Cordilleras, as well as in many other countries, the soil, though
destitute of those qualities which make it fit for the uses of man, because of the absence
of water in sufficient amount, is, as regards its structure and depth, as well as its mineral
contents, admirably suited to the needs of agriculture. The development of soils in desert
regions is in almost all cases to be accounted for by the former existence in the realms they
occupy of a much greater rainfall than now exists. Thus in the Rocky Mountain country, when
the deep soils of the ample valleys were formed, the lakes, as we have before noted, were no
longer dead seas, as is at present so generally the case, but poured forth great streams to
the sea. Here, as elsewhere, we find evidence that certain portions of the earth which recently
had an abundant rainfall have now become starved for the lack of that supply. All the soils
of arid regions where the trial has been made have proved very fertile when subjected to irrigation,
which can often be accomplished by storing the waters of the brief rainy season or by diverting
those of rivers which enter the deserts from well-watered mountain fields. In fact, the soil
of these arid realms yields peculiarly ample returns to the husbandman, because of certain
conditions due to the exceeding dryness of the air. This leads to an absence of cloudy weather,
so that from the time the seed is planted the growth is stimulated by uninterrupted and intense
sunshine. The same dryness of the air leads, as we have seen, to a rapid evaporation from the
surface, by which, in a manner before noted, the dissolved mineral matter is brought near the
top of the soil, where it can best serve the greater part of our crop plants. On these accounts
an acre of irrigated soil can be made to yield a far greater return than can be obtained from
land of like chemical composition in humid regions.

In many parts of the world, particularly in the northern and western portions of the Mississippi
Valley, there are widespread areas, which, though moderately well watered, were in their virgin
state almost without forests. In the prairie region the early settlers found the country unwooded,
except along the margins of the streams. On the borders of the true prairies, however, they
found considerable areas of a prevailingly forested land, with here and there a tract of prairie.
There were several of these open fields south of the Ohio, though the country there is in general
forested; one of these prairie areas, in the Green River district of Kentucky, was several
thousand square miles in extent. At first it was supposed that the absence of trees in the
open country of the Mississippi Valley was due to some peculiarity of the soil, but experience
shows that plantations luxuriantly develop, and that the timber will spread rapidly in the
natural way. In fact, if the seeds of the trees which have been planted since the settlement
of the country were allowed to develop as they seek to do, it would only be a few centuries
before the region would be forest-clad as far west as the rainfall would permit the plants
to develop. Probably the woods would attain to near the hundredth meridian.

In the opinion of the writer, the treeless character of the Western plains is mainly to be
accounted for by the habit which our Indians had of burning the herbage of a lowly sort each
year, so that the large game might obtain better pasturage. It is a well-known fact to all
those who have had to deal with cattle on fields which are in the natural state that fire betters
the pasturage. Beginning this method of burning in the arid regions to the west of the original
forests, the natural action of the fire has been gradually to destroy these woods. Although
the older and larger trees, on account of their thick bark and the height of their foliage
above the ground, escaped destruction, all the smaller and younger members of the species were
constantly swept away. Thus when the old trees died they left no succession, and the country
assumed its prairie character. That the prairies were formed in this manner seems to be proved
by the testimony which we have concerning the open area before mentioned as having existed
in western Kentucky. It is said that around the timberless fields there was a wide fringe of
old fire-scarred trees, with no undergrowth beneath their branches, and that as they died no
kind of large vegetation took their place. When the Indians who set these fires were driven
away, as was the case in the last decade of the last century, the country at once began to
resume its timbered condition. From the margin and from every interior point where the trees
survived, their seeds spread so that before the open land was all subjugated to the plough
it was necessary in many places to clear away a thick growth of the young forest-building trees.

The soils which develop on the lavas and ashes about an active volcano afford interesting subjects
for study, for the reason that they show how far the development of the layer which supports
vegetation may depend upon the character of the rocks from which it is derived. Where the materials
ejected from a volcano lie in a rainy district, the process of decay which converts the rock
into soil is commonly very rapid, a few years of exposure to the weather being sufficient to
bring about the formation of a fertile soil. This is due to the fact that most lavas, as well
as the so-called volcanic ashes, which are of the same material as the lavas, only blown to
pieces, are composed of varied minerals, the most of which are readily attacked by the agents
of decay. Now and then, however, we find the materials ejected from a particular volcano, or
even the lavas and ashes of a single eruption, in such a chemical state that soils form upon
them with exceeding slowness.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The foregoing incomplete considerations make it plain that the soil-covering of the earth is
the result of very delicate adjustments, which determine the rate at which the broken-down
rocks find their path from their original bed places to the sea. The admirable way in which
this movement is controlled is indicated by the fact that almost everywhere we find a soil-covering
deep enough for the use of a varied vegetation, but rarely averaging more than a dozen feet
in depth. Only here and there are the rocks bare or the earth swathed in a profound mass of
detritus. This indicates how steadfast and measured is the march of the rock waste from the
hills to the sea. Unhappily, man, when by his needs he is forced to till the soil, is compelled
to break up this ancient and perfect order. He has to strip the living mantle from the earth,
replacing it with growth of those species which serve his needs. Those plants which are most
serviceable--which are, indeed, indispensable in the higher civilization, the grains--require
for their cultivation that the earth be stripped bare and deeply stirred during the rainy season,
and thus subjected to the most destructive effect of the rainfall. The result is, that in almost
all grain fields the rate of soil destruction vastly surpasses that at which the accumulation
is being made. We may say, indeed, that, except in alluvial plains, where the soil grows by
flood-made additions to its upper surface, no field tilled in grain can without exceeding care
remain usable for a century. Even though the agriculturist returns to the earth all the chemical
substances which he takes away in his crops, the loss of the soil by the washing away of its
substance to the stream will inevitably reduce the region to sterility.

It is not fanciful to say that the greatest misfortune which in a large way man has had to
meet in his agriculture arises from this peculiar stress which grain crops put upon the soil.
If these grains grew upon perennial plants, in the manner of our larger fruits, the problem
of man's relation to the soil would be much simpler than it is at present. He might then manage
to till the earth without bringing upon it the inevitable destruction which he now inflicts.
As it is, he should recognise that his needs imperil this ancient and precious element in the
earth's structure, and he should endeavour in every possible way to minimize the damage which
he brings about. This result he may accomplish in certain simple ways.

First, as regards the fertility of the soil, as distinguished from the thickness of the coating,
it may be said that modern discoveries enable us to see the ways whereby we may for an indefinite
period avoid the debasement of our great heritage, the food-giving earth. We now know in various
parts of the world extensive and practically inexhaustible deposits, whence may be obtained
the phosphates, potash, soda, etc., which we take from the soil in our crops. We also have
learned ways in which the materials contained in our sewage may be kept from the sea and restored
to the fields. In fact, the recent developments of agriculture have made it not only easy,
but in most cases profitable, to avoid this waste of materials which has reduced so many regions
to poverty. We may fairly look forward to the time, not long distant, when the old progressive
degradation in the fertility of the soil coating will no longer occur. It is otherwise with
the mass of the soil, that body of commingled decayed rock and vegetable matter which must
possess a certain thickness in order to serve its needs. As yet no considerable arrest has
been made in the processes which lead to the destruction of this earthy mass. In all countries
where tillage is general the rivers are flowing charged with all they can bear away of soil
material. Thus in the valley of the Po, a region where, if the soil were forest-clad, the down-wearing
of the surface would probably be at no greater rate than one foot in five thousand years, the
river bears away the soil detritus so rapidly that at the present time the downgoing is at
the rate of one foot in eight hundred years, and each decade sees the soil disappear from hillsides
which were once fertile, but are now reduced to bare rocks. All about the Mediterranean the
traveller notes extensive regions which were once covered with luxuriant forests, and were
afterward the seats of prosperous agriculture, where the soil has utterly disappeared, leaving
only the bare rocks, which could not recover its natural covering in thousands of years of
the enforced fallow.

Within the limits of the United States the degradation of the soil, owing to the peculiar conditions
of the country, is in many districts going forward with startling rapidity. It has been the
habit of our people--a habit favoured by the wide extent of fertile and easily acquired frontier
ground--recklessly to till their farms until the fields were exhausted, and then to abandon
them for new ground. By shallow ploughing on steep hillsides, by neglect in the beginning of
those gulches which form in such places, it is easy in the hill country of the eastern United
States to have the soil washed away within twenty years after the protecting forests have been
destroyed. The writer has estimated that in the States south of the Ohio and James Rivers more
than eight thousand square miles of originally fertile ground have by neglect been brought
into a condition where it will no longer bear crops of any kind, and over fifteen hundred miles
of the area have been so worn down to the subsoil or the bed rock that it may never be profitable
to win it again to agricultural uses.

Hitherto, in our American agriculture, our people have been to a great extent pioneers; they
have been compelled to win what they could in the cheapest possible way and with the rudest
implements, and without much regard to the future of those who were in subsequent generations
to occupy the fields which they were conquering from the wilderness and the savages. The danger
is now that this reckless tillage, in a way justified of old, may be continued and become habitual
with our people. It is, indeed, already a fixed habit in many parts of the country, particularly
in the South, where a small farmer expects to wear out two or three plantations in the course
of his natural life. Many of them manage to ruin from one to two hundred acres of land in the
course of half a century of uninterrupted labour. This system deserves the reprobation of all
good citizens; it would be well, indeed, if it were possible to do so, to stamp it out by the
law. The same principle which makes it illegal for a man to burn his own dwelling house may
fairly be applied in restraining him from destroying the land which he tills.

There are a few simple principles which, if properly applied, may serve to correct this misuse
of our American soil. The careful tiller should note that all soils whatever which lie on declivities
having a slope of more than one foot in thirty inevitably and rapidly waste when subject to
plough tillage. This instrument tends to smear and consolidate the layer of earth over which
its heel runs, so that at a depth of a few inches below the surface a layer tolerably impervious
to water is formed. The result is that the porous portion of the deposit becomes excessively
charged with water in times of heavy rain, and moves down the hillside in a rapid manner. All
such steep slopes should be left in their wooded state, or, if brought into use, should be
retained as pasture lands.

Where, as is often the case with the farms in hilly countries, all the fields are steeply inclined,
it is an excellent precaution to leave the upper part of the slope with a forest covering.
In this condition not only is the excessive flow of surface water diminished, but the moisture
which creeps down the slope from the wooded area tends to keep the lower-lying fields in a
better state for tillage, and promotes the decay of the underlying rocks, and thus adds to
the body and richness of the earth.

On those soils which must be tilled, even where they tend to wash away, the aim should be to
keep the detritus open to such a depth that it may take in as much as possible of the rainfall,
yielding the water to the streams through the springs. This end can generally be accomplished
by deep ploughing; it can, in almost all cases, be attained by under-drainage. The effect of
allowing the water to penetrate is not only to diminish the superficial wearing, but to maintain
the process of subsoil and bed-rock decay by which the detrital covering is naturally renewed.
Where, as in many parts of the country, the washing away of the soil can not otherwise be arrested,
the progress of the destruction can be delayed by forming with the skilful use of the plough
ditches of slight declivity leading along the hillsides to the natural waterways. One of the
most satisfactory marks of the improvement which is now taking place in the agriculture of
the cotton-yielding States of this country is to be found in the rapid increase in the use
of the ditch system here mentioned. This system, combined with ploughing in the manner where
the earth is with each overturning thrown uphill, will greatly reduce the destructive effect
of rainfall on steep-lying fields. But the only effective protection, however, is accomplished
by carefully terracing the slopes, so that the tilled ground lies in level benches. This system
is extensively followed in the thickly settled portions of Europe, but it may be a century
before it will be much used in this country.

The duty of the soil-tiller by the earth with which he deals may be briefly summed up: He should
look upon himself as an agent necessarily interfering with the operations which naturally form
and preserve the soil. He should see that his work brings two risks; he may impoverish the
accumulation of detrital material by taking out the plant food more rapidly than it is prepared
for use. This injurious result may be at any time reparable by a proper use of manures. Not
so, however, with the other form of destruction, which results in the actual removal of the
soil materials. Where neglect has brought about this disaster, it can only be repaired by leaving
the area to recover beneath the slowly formed forest coating. This process in almost all cases
requires many thousands of years for its accomplishment. The man who has wrought such destruction
has harmed the inheritance of life.

                            CHAPTER IX.

                     THE ROCKS AND THEIR ORDER.

In the preceding chapters of this book the attention of the student has been directed mainly
to the operations of those natural forces which act upon the surface of the earth. Incidentally
the consequences arising from the applications of energy to the outer part of the planet have
been attended to, but the main aim has been to set forth the work which solar energy, operating
in the form of heat, accomplishes upon the lands. We have now to consider one of the great
results of these actions, which is exhibited in the successive strata that make up the earth's
crust.

The most noteworthy effect arising from the action of the solar forces on the earth and their
co-operation with those which originate in our sphere is found in the destruction of beds or
other deposits of rock, and the removal of the materials to the floors of water basins, where
they are again aggregated in strata, and gradually brought once more into a stable condition
within the earth. This work is accomplished by water in its various states, the action being
directly affected by gravitation. In the form of steam, water which has been built into rocks
and volcanically expelled by tensions, due to the heat which it has acquired at great depths
below the surface, blows forth great quantities of lava, which is contributed to the formation
of strata, either directly in the solid form or indirectly, after having been dissolved in
the sea. Acting as waves, water impelled by solar energy transmitted to it by the winds beats
against the shores, wearing away great quantities of rock, which is dragged off to the neighbouring
sea bottoms, there to resume the bedded form. Moving ice in glaciers, water again applying
solar energy given to it by its elevation above the sea, most effectively grinds away the elevated
parts of the crust, the débris being delivered to the ocean. In the rain the same work is done,
and even in the wind the power of the sun serves to abrade the high-lying rocks, making new
strata of their fragments.

As gravity enters as an element in all the movements of divided rock, the tendency of the waste
worn from the land is to gather on to the bottoms of basins which contain water. Rarely, and
only in a small way, this process results in the accumulation of lake deposits; the greater
part of the work is done upon the sea floor. When the beds are formed in lake basins, they
may be accumulated in either of two very diverse conditions. They may be formed in what are
called dead seas, in which case the detrital materials are commonly small in amount, for the
reason that the inflowing streams are inconsiderable; in such basins there is normally a large
share of saline materials, which are laid down by the evaporation of the water. In ordinary
lakes the deposits which are formed are mostly due to the sediment that the rivers import.
These materials are usually fine-grained, and the sand or pebbles which they contain are plentifully
mingled with clay. Hence lake deposits are usually of an argillaceous nature. As organic life,
such as secretes limestone, is rarely developed to any extent in lake basins, limy beds are
very rarely formed beneath those areas of water. Where they occur, they are generally due to
the fact that rivers charged with limy matter import such quantities of the substance that
it is precipitated on the bottom.

As lake deposits are normally formed in basins above the level of the sea, and as the drainage
channels of the basins are always cutting down, the effect is to leave such strata at a considerable
height above the sea level, where the erosive agents may readily attack them. In consequence
of this condition, lacustrine beds are rarely found of great antiquity; they generally disappear
soon after they are formed. Where preserved, their endurance is generally to be attributed
to the fact that the region they occupy has been lowered beneath the sea and covered by marine
strata.

The great laboratory in which the sedimentary deposits are accumulated, the realm in which
at least ninety-nine of the hundred parts of these materials are laid down, is the oceanic
part of the earth. On the floors of the seas and oceans we have not only the region where the
greater part of the sedimentation is effected, but that in which the work assumes the greatest
variety. The sea bottoms, as regards the deposits formed upon them, are naturally divided into
two regions--the one in which the débris from the land forms an important part of the sediment,
and the other, where the remoteness of the shores deprives the sediment of land waste, or at
least of enough of that material in any such share as can affect the character of the deposits.

What we may term the littoral or shore zone of the sea occupies a belt of prevailingly shallow
water, varying in width from a few score to a few hundred miles. Where the bottom descends
steeply from the coast, where there are no strong off-shore setting currents, and where the
region is not near the mouth of a large river which bears a great tide of sediment to the sea,
the land waste may not affect the bottom for more than a mile or two from the shore. Where
these conditions are reversed, the débris from the air-covered region may be found three or
four hundred miles from the coast line. It should also be noted that the incessant up-and-down
goings of the land result in a constant change in the position of the coast line, and consequently
in the extension of the land sediment, in the course of a few geological periods over a far
wider field of sea bottom than that to which they would attain if the shores remained steadfast.

It is characteristic of the sediments deposited within the influence of the continental detritus
that they vary very much in their action, and that this variation takes place not only horizontally
along the shores in the same stratum, but vertically, in the succession of the beds. It also
may be traced down the slope from the coast line to deep water. Thus where all the débris comes
from the action of the waves, the deposits formed from the shore outwardly will consist of
coarse materials, such as pebbles near the coast, of sand in the deeper and remoter section,
and of finer silt in the part of the deposit which is farthest out. With each change in the
level of the coast line the position of these belts will necessarily be altered. Where a great
river enters the sea, the changes in the volume of sediment which it from time to time sends
forth, together with the alternations in the position of its point of discharge, led to great
local complexities in the strata. Moreover, the turbid water sent forth by the stream may,
as in the case of the tide from the Amazon, be drifted for hundreds of miles along the coast
line or into the open sea.

The most important variations which occur in the deposits of the littoral zone are brought
about by the formations of rocks more or less composed of limestone. Everywhere the sea is,
as compared with lake waters, remarkably rich in organic life. Next the shore, partly because
the water is there shallow, but also because of its relative warmth and the extent to which
it is in motion, organic life, both that of animals and plants, commonly develops in a very
luxuriant way. Only where the bottom is composed of drifting sands, which do not afford a foothold
for those species which need to rest upon the shore, do we fail to find that surface thickly
tenanted with varied forms. These are arranged according to the depth of the bottom. The species
of marine plants which are attached to fixed objects are limited to the depth within which
the sunlight effectively penetrates the water; in general, it may be said that they do not
extend below a depth of one hundred feet. The animal forms are distributed, according to their
kinds, over the floor, but few species having the capacity to endure any great range in the
pressure of the sea water. Only a few forms, indeed, extend from low tide to the depth of a
thousand feet.

The greatest development of organic life, the realm in which the largest number of species
occur, and where their growth is most rapid, lies within about a hundred feet of the low-tide
level. Here sunlight, warmth, and motion in the water combine to favour organic development.
It is in this region that coral reefs and other great accumulations of limestone, formed from
the skeletons of polyps and mollusks, most abundantly occur. These deposits of a limy nature
depend upon a very delicate adjustment of the conditions which favour the growth of certain
creatures; very slight geographic changes, by inducing movements of sand or mud, are apt to
interrupt their formation, bringing about a great and immediate alteration in the character
of the deposits. Thus it is that where geologists find considerable fields of rock, where limestones
are intercalated with sandstones and deposits of clay, they are justified in assuming that
the strata were laid down near some ancient shore. In general, these coast deposits become
more and more limy as we go toward the tropical realms, and this for the reason that the species
which secrete large amounts of lime are in those regions most abundant and attain the most
rapid growth. The stony polyps, the most vigorous of the limestone makers, grow in large quantities
only in the tropical realm, or near to it, where ocean streams of great warmth may provide
the creatures with the conditions of temperature and food which they need.

As we pass from the shore to the deeper sea, the share of land detritus rapidly diminishes
until, as before remarked, at the distance of five hundred miles from the coast line, very
little of that waste, except that from volcanoes, attains the bottom of the sea. By far the
larger part of the contributions which go to the formation of these deep-sea strata come from
organic remains, which are continually falling upon the sea floor. In part, this waste is derived
from creatures which dwell upon the bottom; in considerable measure, however, it is from the
dead bodies of those forms which live near the surface of the sea, and which when dying sink
slowly through the intermediate realm to the bottom.

Owing to the absence of sunlight, the prevailingly cold water of the deeper seas, and the lack
of vegetation in those realms, the growth of organic forms on the deep-sea floor is relatively
slow. Thus it happens that each shell or other contribution to the sediment lies for some time
on the bottom before it is buried. While in this condition it is apt to be devoured by some
of the many species which dwell on the bottom and subsist from the remains of animals and plants
which they find there. In all cases the fossilization of any form depends upon the accumulation
of sediment before the processes of destruction have overtaken them, and among these processes
we must give the first place to the creatures which subsist on shells, bones, or other substances
of like nature which find their way to the ocean floor. In the absolute darkness, the still
water, and the exceeding cold of the deeper seas, animals find difficult conditions for development.
Moreover, in this deep realm there is no native vegetation, and, in general, but little material
of this nature descends to the bottom from the surface of the sea. The result is, the animals
have to subsist on the remains of other animals which at some step in the succession have obtained
their provender from the plants which belong on the surface or in the shallow waters of the
sea. This limitation of the food supply causes the depths of the sea to be a realm of continual
hunger, a region where every particle of organic matter is apt to be seized upon by some needy
creature.

In consequence of the fact that little organic matter on the deeper sea floors escapes being
devoured, the most of the material of this nature which goes into strata enters that state
in a finely divided condition. In the group of worms alone--forms which in a great diversity
of species inhabit the sea floor--we find creatures which are specially adapted to digesting
the débris which gathers on the sea bottom. Wandering over this surface, much in the manner
of our ordinary earthworms, these creatures devour the mud, voiding the matter from their bodies
in a yet more perfectly divided form. Hence it comes about that the limestone beds, so commonly
formed beneath the open seas, are generally composed of materials which show but few and very
imperfect fossils. Studying any series of limestone beds, we commonly find that each layer,
in greater or less degree, is made up of rather massive materials, which evidently came to
their place in the form of a limy mud. Very often this lime has crystallized, and thus has
lost all trace of its original organic structure.

One of the conspicuous features which may be observed in any succession of limestone beds is
the partings or divisions into layers which occur with varied frequency. Sometimes at vertical
intervals of not more than one or two inches, again with spacings of a score of feet, we find
divisional planes, which indicate a sudden change in the process of rock formation. The lime
disappears, and in place of it we have a thin layer of very fine detritus, which takes on the
form of a clay. Examining these partings with care, we observe that on the upper surface on
the limestone the remains of the animal which dwelt on the ancient sea floor are remarkably
well preserved, they having evidently escaped the effect of the process which reduced their
ancestors, whose remains constitute the layer, to mud. Furthermore, we note that the shaly
layer is not only lacking in lime, but commonly contains no trace of animals such as might
have dwelt on the bottom. The fossils it bears are usually of species which swam in the overlying
water and came to the bottom after death. Following up through the layer of shale, we note
that the ordinary bottom life gradually reappears, and shortly becomes so plentiful that the
deposit resumes the character which it had before the interruption began. Often, however, we
note that the assemblage of species which dwelt on the given area of sea floor has undergone
a considerable change. Forms in existence in the lower layer may be lacking in the upper, their
place being taken by new varieties.

So far the origin of these divisional planes in marine deposits has received little attention
from geologists; they have, indeed, assumed that each of these alterations indicates some sudden
disturbance of the life of the sea floors. They have, however, generally assumed that the change
was due to alterations in the depth of the sea or in the run of ocean currents. It seems to
the writer, however, that while these divisions may in certain cases be due to the above-mentioned
and, indeed, to a great variety of causes, they are in general best to be explained by the
action of earthquakes. Water being an exceedingly elastic substance, an earthquake passes through
it with much greater speed than it traverses the rocks which support the ocean floor. The result
is that, when the fluid and solid oscillate in the repeated swingings which a shock causes,
they do not move together, but rub over each other, the independent movements having the swing
of from a few inches to a foot or two in shocks of considerable energy.

When the sea bottom and the overlying water, vibrating under the impulse of an earthquake shock,
move past each other, the inevitable result is the formation of muddy water; the very fine
silt of the bottom is shaken up into the fluid, which afterward descends as a sheet to its
original position. It is a well-known fact that such muddying of water, in which species accustomed
to other conditions dwell, inevitably leads to their death by covering their breathing organs
and otherwise disturbing the delicately balanced conditions which enable them to exist. We
find, in fact, that most of the tenants of the water, particularly the forms which dwell upon
the bottom, are provided with an array of contrivances which enable them to clear away from
their bodies such small quantities of silt as may inconvenience them. Thus, in the case of
our common clam, the breathing organs are covered with vibratory cilia, which, acting like
brooms, sweep off any foreign matter which may come upon their surfaces. Moreover, the creature
has a long, double, spoutlike organ, which it can elevate some distance above the bottom, through
which it draws and discharges the water from which it obtains food and air. Other forms, such
as the crinoids, or sea lilies, elevate the breathing parts on top of tall stems of marvellous
construction, which brings those vital organs at the level, it may be, of three or four feet
above the zone of mud. In consequence of the peculiar method of growth, the crinoids often
escape the damage done by the disturbance of the bottom, and thus form limestone beds of remarkable
thickness; sometimes, indeed, we find these layers composed mainly of crinoidal remains, which
exhibit only slight traces of partings such as we have described, being essentially united
for the depth of ten or twenty feet. Where the layers have been mainly accumulated by shellfish,
their average thickness is less than half a foot.

When we examine the partitions between the layers of limestone, we commonly find that, however
thin, they generally extend for an indefinite distance in every direction. The writer has traced
some of these for miles; never, indeed, has he been able to find where they disappeared. This
fact makes it clear that the destruction which took place at the stage where these partings
were formed was widespread; so far as it was due to earthquake shocks, we may fairly believe
that in many cases it occurred over areas which were to be measured by tens of thousands of
square miles. Indeed, from what we know of earthquake shocks, it seems likely that the devastation
may at times have affected millions of square miles.

Another class of accidents connected with earthquakes may also suddenly disturb the mud on
the sea bottom. When, as elsewhere noted, a shock originates beneath the sea, the effect is
suddenly to elevate the water over the seat of the jarring and the regions thereabouts to the
height of some feet. This elevation quickly takes the shape of a ringlike wave, which rolls
off in every direction from its point of origin. Where the sea is deep, the effect of this
wave on the bottom may be but slight; but as the undulation attains shallower water, and in
proportion to the shoaling, the front of the surge is retarded in its advance by the friction
of the bottom, while the rear part, being in deeper water, crowds upon the advancing line.
The action is precisely that which has been described as occurring in wind-made waves as they
approach the beach; but in this last-named group of undulations, because of the great width
of the swell, the effect of the shallowing is evident in much deeper water. It is likely that
at the depth of a thousand feet the passing of one of these vast surges born of earthquakes
may so stir the mud of the sea floor as to bring about a widespread destruction of life, and
thus give rise to many of the partitions between strata.

If we examine with the microscope the fine-grained silts which make up the shaly layers between
limestones, we find the materials to be mostly of inorganic origin. It is hard to trace the
origin of the mineral matter which it contains; some of the fragments are likely to prove of
Volcanic origin; others, bits of dust from meteorites; yet others, dust blown from the land,
which may, as we know, be conveyed for any distance across the seas. Mingled with this sediment
of an inorganic origin we almost invariably find a share of organic waste, derived not from
creatures which dwelt upon the bottom, but from those which inhabited the higher-lying waters.
If, now, we take a portion of the limestone layer which lies above or below the shale parting,
and carefully dissolve out with acids the limy matter which it contains, we obtain a residuum
which in general character, except so far as the particles may have been affected by the acid,
is exactly like the material which forms the claylike partition. We are thus readily led to
the conclusion that on the floors of the deeper seas there is constantly descending, in the
form of a very slow shower, a mass of mineral detritus. Where organic life belonging to the
species which secrete hard shells or skeletons is absent, this accumulation, proceeding with
exceeding slowness, gradually accumulates layers, which take on a shaly character. Where limestone-making
animals abound, they so increase the rate of deposition that the proportion of the mineral
material in the growing strata is very much reduced; it may, indeed, become as small as one
per cent of the mass. In this case we may say that the deposit of limestone grew a hundred
times as fast as the intervening beds of shale.

The foregoing considerations make it tolerably clear that the sea floor is in receipt of two
diverse classes of sediment--those of a mineral and those of an organic origin. The mineral,
or inorganic, materials predominate along the shores. They gradually diminish in quantity toward
the open sea, where the supply is mainly dependent on the substances thrown forth from volcanoes,
on pumice in its massive or its comminuted form--i.e., volcanic dust, states of lava in which
the material, because of the vesicles which it contains, can float for ages before it comes
to rest on the sea bottom. Variations in the volcanic waste contributed to the sea floor may
somewhat affect the quantity of the inorganic sediments, but, as a whole, the downfalling of
these fragments is probably at a singularly uniform rate. It is otherwise with the contributions
of sediment arising from organic forms. This varies in a surprising measure. On the coral reefs,
such as form in the mid oceans, the proportion of matter which has not come into the accumulation
through the bodies of animals and plants may be as small as one tenth of one per cent, or less.
In the deeper seas, it is doubtful whether the rate of animal growth is such as to permit the
formation of any beds which have less than one half of their mass made up of materials which
fell through the water.

In certain areas of the open seas the upper part of the water is dwelt in by a host of creatures,
mostly foraminifera, which extract limestone from the water, and, on dying, send their shells
to the bottom. Thus in the North Atlantic, even where the sea floor is of great depth beneath
the surface, there is constantly accumulating a mass of limy matter, which is forming very
massive limestone strata, somewhat resembling chalk deposits, such as abundantly occur in Great
Britain, in the neighbouring parts of Europe, in Texas, and elsewhere. Accumulations such as
this, where the supply is derived from the surface of the water, are not affected by the accidents
which divide beds made on the bottom in the manner before described. They may, therefore, have
the singularly continuous character which we note in the English chalk, where, for the thickness
of hundreds of feet, we may have no evident partitions, except certain divisions, which have
evidently originated long after the beds were formed.

We have already noted the fact that, while the floors of the deeper seas appear to lack mountainous
elevations, those arising from the folding of strata, they are plentifully scattered over with
volcanic cones. We may therefore suppose that, in general, the deposits formed on the sea floor
are to a great extent affected by the materials which these vents cast forth. Lava streams
and showers represent only a part of the contributions from volcanoes, which finally find their
way to the bottom. In larger part, the materials thrown forth are probably first dissolved
in the water and then taken up by the organic species; only after the death of these creatures
does the waste go to the bottom. As hosts of these creatures have no solid skeleton to contribute
to the sea floor, such mineral matter as they may obtain is after their death at once restored
to the sea.

Not only does the contribution of organic sediment diminish in quantity with the depth which
is attained, but the deeper parts of the ocean bed appear to be in a condition where no accumulations
of this nature are made, and this for the reason that the water dissolves the organic matter
more rapidly than it is laid down. Thus in place of limestone, which would otherwise form,
we have only a claylike residuum, such as is obtained when we dissolve lime rocks in acids.
This process of solution, by which the limy matter deposited on the bottom is taken back into
the water, goes on everywhere, but at a rate which increases with the depth. This increase
is due in part to the augmentation of pressure, and in part to the larger share of carbonic
dioxide which the water at great depths holds. The result is, that explorations with the dredge
seem to indicate that on certain parts of the deeper sea floors the rocks are undergoing a
process of dissolution comparable to that which takes place in limestone caverns. So considerable
is the solvent work that a large part of the inorganic waste appears to be taken up by the
waters, so as to leave the bottom essentially without sedimentary accumulations. The sea, in
a word, appears to be eating into rocks which it laid down before the depression attained its
present great depth.

We should here note something of the conditions which determine the supply of food which the
marine animals obtain. First of all, we may recur to the point that the ocean waters appear
to contain something of all the earth materials which do not readily decompose when they are
taken into the state of solution. These mineral substances, including the metals, are obtained
in part from the lands, through the action of the rain water and the waves, but perhaps in
larger share from the volcanic matter which, in the form of floating lava, pumice, or dust,
is plentifully delivered to the sea. Except doubtfully, and at most in a very small way, this
chemical store of the sea water can not be directly taken into the structures of animals; it
can only be immediately appropriated by the marine plants. These forms can only develop in
that superficial realm of the seas which is penetrated by the sunlight, or say within the depth
of five hundred feet, mostly within one hundred feet of the surface, about one thirtieth of
the average, and about one fiftieth of the maximum ocean depth. On this marine plant life,
and in a small measure on the vegetable matter derived from the land, the marine animals primarily
depend for their provender. Through the conditions which bring about the formation of Sargassum
seas, those areas of the ocean where seaweeds grow afloat, as well as by the water-logging
and weighting down of other vegetable matter, some part of the plant remains is carried to
the sea floor, even to great depths; but the main dependence of the deep-sea forms of animals
is upon other animal forms, which themselves may have obtained their store from yet others.
In fact, in any deep-sea form we might find it necessary to trace back the food by thousands
of steps before we found the creature which had access to the vegetable matter. It is easy
to see how such conditions profoundly limit the development of organic being in the abysm of
the ocean.

The sedentary animals, or those which are fixed to the sea bottom--a group which includes the
larger part of the marine species--have to depend for their sustenance on the movement of the
water which passes their station. If the seas were perfectly still, none of these creatures
except the most minute could be fed; therefore the currents of the ocean go far by their speed
to determine the rate at which life may flourish. At great depths, as we have seen, these movements
are practically limited to that which is caused by the slow movement which the tide brings
about. The amount of this motion is proportional to the depth of the sea; in the deeper parts,
it carries the water to and fro twice each day for the distance of about two hundred and fifty
feet. In the shallower water this motion increases in proportion to the shoaling, and in the
regions near the shores the currents of the sea which, except the massive drift from the poles,
do not usually touch the bottom, begin to have their influence. Where the water is less than
a hundred feet in depth, each wave contributes to the movement, which attains its maximum near
the shore, where every surge sweeps the water rapidly to and fro. It is in this surge belt,
where the waves are broken, that marine animals are best provided with food, and it is here
that their growth is most rapid. If the student will obtain a pint of water from the surf,
he will find that it is clouded by fragments of organic matter, the quantity in a pound of
the fluid often amounting to the fiftieth part of its weight. He will thus perceive that along
the shore line, though the provision of victuals is most abundant, the store is made from the
animals and plants which are ground up in the mill. In a word, while the coast is a place of
rapid growth, it is also a region of rapid destruction; only in the case of the coral animals,
which associate their bodies with a number of myriads in large and elaborately organized communities,
do we find animals which can make such head against the action of the waves that they can build
great deposits in their realm.

It should be noted that a part of the advantage which is afforded to organic life by the shore
belt is due to the fact that the waters are there subjected to a constant process of aëration
by the whipping into foam and spray which occurs where the waves overturn.

It will be interesting to the student to note the great number of mechanical contrivances which
have been devised to give security to animals and plants which face these difficult conditions
arising from successive violent blows of falling water. Among these may be briefly noted those
of the limpets--mollusks which dwell in a conical shell, which faces the water with a domelike
outside, and which at the moment of the stroke is drawn down upon the rock by the strong muscle
which fastens the creature to its foundation. The barnacles, which with their wedge-shaped
prows cut the water at the moment of the stroke, but open in the pauses between the waves,
so that the creature may with its branching arms grasp at the food which floats about it; the
nullipores, forms of seaweed which are framed of limestone and cling firmly to the rock--afford
yet other instances of protective adaptations contrived to insure the safety of creatures which
dwell in the field of abundant food supply.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The facts above presented will show the reader that the marine sediments are formed under conditions
which permit a great variety in the nature of the materials of which they are composed. As
soon as the deposits are built into rocks and covered by later accumulations, their materials
enter the laboratory of the under earth, where they are subjected to progressive changes. Even
before they have attained a great depth, through the laying down of later deposits upon them,
changes begin which serve to alter their structure. The fragments of a soluble kind begin to
be dissolved, and are redeposited, so that the mass commonly becomes much more solid, passing
from the state of detritus to that of more or less solid rock. When yet more deeply buried,
and thereby brought into a realm of greater warmth, or perhaps when penetrated by dikes and
thereby heated, these changes go yet further. More of the material is commonly rearranged by
solution and redeposition, so that limestone may be converted into crystalline marble, granular
sandstones into firm masses, known as quartzites, and clays into the harder form of slate.
Where the changes go to the extreme point, rocks originally distinctly bedded probably may
be so taken to pieces and made over that all traces of their stratification may be destroyed,
all fossils obliterated, and the stone transformed into mica schist, or granite or other crystalline
rock. It may be injected into the overlying strata in the form of dikes, or it may be blown
forth into the air through volcanoes. Involved in mountain-folding, after being more or less
changed in the manner described, the beds may become tangled together like the rumpled leaves
of a book, or even with the complexity of snarled thread. All these changes of condition makes
it difficult for the geologist to unravel the succession of strata so that he may know the
true order of the rocks, and read from them the story of the successive geological periods.
This task, though incomplete, has by the labours of many thousand men been so far advanced
that we are now able to divide the record into chapters, the divisions of the geologic ages,
and to give some account of the succession of events, organic and geographic, which have occurred
since life began to write its records.

                           EARTHQUAKES.

In ordinary experience we seem to behold the greater part of the earth which meets our eyes
as fixed in its position. A better understanding shows us that nothing in this world is immovable.
In the realm of the inorganic world the atoms and molecules even in solid bodies have to be
conceived as endowed with ceaseless though ordered motions. Even when matter is built into
the solid rock, it is doubtful whether any grain of it ever comes really to rest. Under the
strains which arise from the contraction of the earth's interior and the chemical changes which
the rocks undergo, each bit is subject to ever-changing thrusts, which somewhat affect its
position. If we in any way could bring a grain of sand from any stratum under a microscope,
so that we could perceive its changes of place, we should probably find that it was endlessly
swaying this way and that, with reference to an ideally fixed point, such as the centre of
the earth. But even that centre, whether of gravity or of figure, is probably never at rest.

Earth movements may be divided into two groups--those which arise from the bodily shifting
of matter, which conveys the particles this way or that, or, as we say, change their place,
and those which merely produce vibration, in which the particles, after their vibratory movement,
return to their original place. For purposes of illustration the first, or translatory motion,
may be compared to that which takes place when a bell is carried along upon a locomotive or
a ship; and the second, or vibratory movement, to what takes place when the bell is by a blow
made to ring. It is with these ringing movements, as we may term them, that we find ourselves
concerned when we undertake the study of earthquakes.

It is desirable that the reader should preface his study of earthquakes by noting the great
and, at the same time, variable elasticity of rocks. In the extreme form this elasticity is
very well shown when a toy marble, which is made of a close-textured rock, such as that from
which it derives its name, is thrown upon a pavement composed of like dense material. Experiment
will show that the little sphere can often be made to bounce to the height of twenty feet without
breaking. If, then, with the same energy the marble is thrown upon a brick floor, the rebound
will be very much diminished. It is well to consider what happens to produce the rebound. When
the sphere strikes the floor it changes its shape, becoming shorter in the axis at right angles
to the point which was struck, and at the same instant expanded along the equator of that axis.
The flattening remains for only a small fraction of a second; the sphere vibrates so that it
stretches along the line on which it previously shortened, and, as this movement takes place
with great swiftness, it may be said to propel itself away from the floor. At the same time
a similar movement goes on in the rock of the floor, and, where the rate of vibration is the
same, the two kicks are coincident, and so the sphere is impelled violently away from the point
of contact. Where the marble comes in contact with brick, in part because of the lesser elasticity
of that material, due to its rather porous structure, and partly because it does not vibrate
at the same rate as the marble, the expelling blow is much less strong.

All rocks whatever, even those which appear as incoherent sands, are more or less set into
vibratory motion whenever they are struck by a blow. In the crust of the earth various accidents
occur which may produce that sudden motion which we term a blow. When we have examined into
the origin of these impulses, and the way in which they are transmitted through the rocks,
we obtain a basis for understanding earthquake shocks. The commonest cause of the jarrings
in the earth is found in the formation of fractures, known as faults. If the reader has ever
been upon a frozen lake at a time when the weather was growing colder, and the ice, therefore,
was shrinking, he may have noted the rending sound and the slight vibration which comes with
the formation of a crack traversing the sheet of ice. At such a time he feels a movement which
is an earthquake, and which represents the simpler form of those tremors arising from the sudden
rupture of fault planes. If he has a mind to make the experiment, he may hang a bullet by a
thread from a small frame which rests upon the ice, and note that as the vibration occurs the
little pendulum sways to and fro, thus indicating the oscillations of the ice. The same instrument
will move in an identical manner when affected by a quaking in the rocks.

Where the rocks are set in vibration by a rent which is formed in them, the phenomena are more
complicated, and often on a vastly larger scale than in the simple conditions afforded by a
sheet of ice. The rocks on either side of the rupture generally slide over each other, and
the opposing masses are rent in their friction upon one another; the result is, not only the
first jar formed by the initial fracture, but a great many successive movements from the other
breakages which occur. Again, in the deeper parts of the crust, the fault fissures are often
at the moment of their formation filled by a violent inrush of liquid rock. This, as it swiftly
moves along, tears away masses from the walls, and when it strikes the end of the opening delivers
a blow which may be of great violence. The nature of this stroke may be judged by the familiar
instance where the relatively slow-flowing stream from a hydrant pipe is suddenly choked by
closing the stopcock. Unless the plumber provides a cushion of air to diminish the energy of
the blow, it is often strong enough to shake the house. Again, when steam or other gases are
by a sudden diminution of pressure enabled to expand, they may deliver a blow which is exactly
like that caused by the explosion of gunpowder, which, even when it rushes against the soft
cushion of the air, may cause a jarring that may be felt as well as heard to a great distance.
Such movements very frequently occur in the eruptions of volcanoes; they cause a quivering
of the earth, which may be felt for a great distance from the immediate seat of the disturbance.

When by any of the sudden movements which have been above described a jar is applied to the
rocks, the wave flies through the more or less elastic mass until the energy involved in it
is exhausted. This may not be brought about until the motion has travelled for the distance
of hundreds of miles. In the great earthquake of 1755, known as the Lisbon shock, the records
make it seem probable that the movement was felt over one eighth part of the earth's surface.
Such great disturbances probably bring about a motion of the rocks near the point of origin,
which may be expressed in oscillations having an amplitude of one to two feet; but in the greater
number of earthquakes the maximum swing probably does not exceed the tenth of that amount.
Very sensible shaking, even such as may produce considerable damage to buildings, are caused
by shocks in which the earth vibrates with less than an inch of swing.

When a shock originates, the wave in the rocks due to the compression which the blow inflicts
runs at a speed varying with the elasticity of the substance, but at the rate of about fifteen
hundred feet a second. The movements of this wave are at right angles to the seat of the originating
disturbance, so that the shock may come to the surface in a line forming any angle between
the vertical and the nearly horizontal. Where, as in a volcanic eruption, the shock originates
with an explosion, these waves go off in circles. Where, however, as is generally the case,
the shock originates in a fault plane, which may have a length and depth of many miles, the
movement has an elliptical form.

If the earthquake wave ran through a uniform and highly elastic substance, such as glass, it
would move everywhere with equal speed, and, in the case of the greater disturbances, the motion
might be felt over the whole surface of the earth. But as the motion takes place through rocks
of varying elasticity, the rate at which it journeys is very irregular. Moving through materials
of one density, and with a rate of vibration determined by those conditions, the impulse is
with difficulty communicated to strata which naturally vibrate at another speed. In many cases,
as where a shock passing through dense crystalline strata encounters a mass of soft sandstone,
the wave, in place of going on, is reflected back toward its point of origin. These earthquake
echoes sometimes give rise to very destructive movements. It often happens that before the
original tremors of a shock have passed away from a point on the surface the reflex movements
rush in, making a very irregular motion, which may be compared to that of the waves in a cross-sea.

The foregoing account of earthquake action will serve to prepare the reader for an understanding
of those very curious and important effects which these accidents produce in and on the earth.
Below the surface the sensible action of earthquake shocks is limited. It has often been observed
that people in mines hardly note a swaying which may be very conspicuous to those on the surface,
the reason for this being that underground, where the rocks are firmly bound together, all
those swingings which are due to the unsupported position of such objects as buildings, columnar
rocks, trees, and the waters of the earth, are absent. The effect of the movements which earthquakes
impress on the under earth is mainly due to the fact that in almost every part of the crust
tensions or strains of other kinds are continually forming. These may for ages prove without
effect until the earth is jarred, when motions will suddenly take place which in a moment may
alter the conditions of the rocks throughout a wide field. In a word, a great earthquake caused
by the formation of an extensive fault is likely to produce any number of slight dislocations,
each of which is in turn shock-making, sending its little wave to complicate the great oscillation.
Nor does the perturbing effect of these jarring movements cease with the fractures which they
set up and the new strains which are in turn developed by the motions which they induce. The
alterations of the rocks which are involved in chemical changes are favoured by such motions.
It is a familiar experience that a vessel of water, if kept in the state of repose, may have
its temperature lowered three or four degrees below the freezing point without becoming frozen.
If the side of the vessel is then tapped with the finger, so as to send a slight quake through
the mass, it will instantly congeal. Molecular rearrangements are thus favoured by shocks,
and the consequences of those which run through the earth are, from a chemical point of view,
probably important.

The reader may help himself to understand something of the complicated problem of earth tensions,
and the corresponding movements of the rocks, by considering certain homely illustrations.
He may observe how the soil cracks as it shrinks in times of drought, the openings closing
when it rains. In a similar way the frozen earth breaks open, sometimes with a shock which
is often counted as an earthquake. Again, the ashes in a sifter or the gravel on a sieve show
how each shaking may relieve certain tensions established by gravity, while they create others
which are in turn to be released by the next shock. An ordinary dwelling house sways and strains
with the alternations of temperature and moisture to which it is subjected in the round of
climatal alterations. Now and then we note the movements in a cracking sound, but by far the
greater part of them escape observation.

With this sketch of the mechanism of earthquake shocks we now turn to consider their effects
upon the surface of the earth. From a geological point of view, the most important effect of
earthquake shocks is found in the movement of rock masses down steep slopes, which is induced
by the shaking. Everywhere on the land the agents of decay and erosion tend to bring heavy
masses into position where gravitation naturally leads to their downfall, but where they may
remain long suspended, provided they are not disturbed. Thus, wherever there are high and steep
cliffs, great falls of rock are likely to occur when the earthquake movements traverse the
under earth. In more than one instance observers, so placed that they commanded a view of distant
mountains, have noticed the downfall of precipices in the path of the shock before the trembling
affected the ground on which they stood. In the famous earthquake of 1783, which devastated
southern Italy, the Prince of Scylla persuaded his people to take refuge in their boats, hoping
that they might thereby escape the destruction which threatened them on the land. No sooner
were the unhappy folk on the water than the fall of neighbouring cliffs near the sea produced
a great wave, which overwhelmed the vessels.

Where the soil lies upon steep slopes, in positions in which it has accumulated during ages
of tranquillity, a great shock is likely to send it down into the valleys in vast landslides.
Thus, in the earthquake of 1692, the Blue Mountains of Jamaica were so violently shaken that
the soil and the forests which stood on it were precipitated into the river beds, so that many
tree-clad summits became fields of bare rock. The effect of this action is immensely to increase
the amount of detritus which the streams convey to the sea. After the great Jamaica shock,
above noted, the rivers for a while ceased to flow, their waters being stored in the masses
of loose material. Then for weeks they poured forth torrents of mud and the débris of vegetation--materials
which had to be swept away as the streams formed new channels.

In all regions where earthquake movements are frequent, and the shock of considerable violence,
the trained observer notes that the surfaces of bare rock are singularly extensive, the fact
being that many of these areas, where the slope lies at angles of from ten to thirty degrees,
which in an unshaken region would be thickly soil-covered, are deprived of the coating by the
downward movement of the waste which the disturbances bring about. A familiar example of this
action may be had by watching the workmen engaged in sifting sand, by casting the material
on a sloping grating. The work could not be done but for an occasional blow applied to the
sifter. An arrangement for such a jarring motion is commonly found in various ore-dressing
machines, where the object is to move fragments of matter over a sloping surface.

Even where the earth is so level that an earthquake shock does not cause a sliding motion of
the materials, such as above described, other consequences of the shaking may readily be noted.
As the motion runs through the mass, provided the movement be one of considerable violence,
crevices several feet in width, and sometimes having the length of miles, are often formed.
In most cases these fissures, opened by one pulsation of the shock, are likely to be closed
by the return movement, which occurs the instant thereafter. The consequences of this action
are often singular, and in cases constitute the most frightful elements of a shock which the
sufferer beholds. In the great earthquake of 1811, which ravaged the section of the Mississippi
Valley between the mouth of the Ohio and Vicksburg, these crevices were so numerously formed
that the pioneers protected themselves from the danger of being caught in their jaws by felling
trees so that they lay at right angles to the direction in which the rents extended, building
on these timbers platforms to support their temporary dwelling places. The records of earthquakes
supply many instances in which people have been caught in these earth fissures, and in a single
case it is recorded that a man who disappeared into the cavity was in a moment cast forth in
the rush of waters which in this, as in many other cases, spouts forth as the walls of the
opening come together.

Sometimes these rents are attended by a dislocation, which brings the earth on one side much
higher than on the other. The step thus produced may be many miles in length, and may have
a height of twenty feet or more. It needs no argument to show that we have here the top of
a fault such as produced the shock, or it may be one of a secondary nature, such as any earthquake
is likely to bring about in the strata which it traverses. In certain cases two faults conjoin
their action, so that a portion of the surface disappears beneath the earth, entombing whatever
may have stood on the vanished site. Thus in the great shock known as that of Lisbon, which
occurred in 1755, the stone quay along the harbour, where many thousand people had sought refuge
from the falling buildings of the city, suddenly sank down with the multitude, and the waters
closed over it; no trace of the people or of the structure was to be found after the shock
was over. There is a story to the effect that during the same earthquake an Arab village in
northern Africa sank down, the earth on either side closing over it, so that no trace of the
habitations remained. In both these instances the catastrophes are best explained by the diagram.

In the earthquake of 1811 the alluvial plains on either side of the Mississippi at many points
sank down so that arable land was converted into lakes; the area of these depressions probably
amounted to some hundred square miles. The writer, on examining these sunken lands, found that
the subsidences had occurred where the old moats or abandoned channels of the great river had
been filled in with a mixture of decaying timber and river silt. When violently shaken, this
loose-textured débris naturally settled down, so that it formed a basin occupied by a crescent-shaped
lake. The same process of settling plentifully goes on wherever the rocks are still in an uncemented
state. The result is often the production of changes which lead to the expulsion of gases.
Thus, in the Charleston earthquake of 1883, the surface over an area of many hundred square
miles was pitted with small craters, formed by the uprush of water impelled by its contained
gases. These little water volcanoes--for such we may call them--sometimes occur to the number
of a dozen or more on each acre of ground in the violently shaken district. They indicate one
result of the physical and chemical alterations which earthquake shocks bring about. As earthquakes
increase in violence their effect upon the soil becomes continually greater, until in the most
violent shocks all the loose materials on the surface of the earth may be so shaken about as
to destroy even the boundaries of fields. After the famous earthquake of Riobamba, which occurred
on the west coast of South America in 1797, the people of the district in which the town of
that name was situated were forced to redivide their land, the original boundaries having disappeared.
Fortunately, shocks of this description are exceedingly rare. They occur in only a few parts
of the world.

Certain effects of earthquakes where the shock emerges beneath the sea have been stated in
the account of volcanic eruptions (see page 299). We may therefore note here only certain of
the more general facts. While passing through the deep seas, this wave may have a height of
not more than two or three feet and a width of some score miles. As it rolls in upon the shore
the front of the undulation is retarded by the friction of the bottom in such a measure that
its speed is diminished, while the following part of the waves, being less checked, crowds
up toward this forward part. The result is, that the surge mounts ever higher and higher as
it draws near the shore, upon which it may roll as a vast wave having the height of fifty feet
or more and a width quite unparalleled by any wave produced from wind action. Waves of this
description are most common in the Pacific Ocean. Although but occasional, the damage which
they may inflict is very great. As the movement approaches the shore, vessels, however well
anchored, are dragged away to seaward by the great back lash of the wave, a phenomenon which
may be perceived even in the case of the ordinary surf. Thus forced to seaward, the crews of
the ships may find their vessels drawn out for the distance of some miles, until they come
near the face of the advancing billow. This, as it approaches the shore, straightens up to
the wall-fronted form, and then topples upon the land. Those vessels which are not at once
crushed down by the blow are generally hurled far inland by the rush of waters. In the great
Jamaica earthquake of 1692 a British man-of-war was borne over the tops of certain warehouses
and deposited at a distance from the shore.

Owing to the fact that water is a highly elastic material, the shocks transmitted to it from
the bottom are sent onward with their energy but little diminished. While the impulse is very
violent, these oscillations may prove damaging to shipping. The log-books of mariners abound
in stories of how vessels were dismasted or otherwise badly shaken by a sudden blow received
in the midst of a quiet sea. The impression commonly conveyed to the sailors is that the craft
has struck upon a rock. The explanation is that an earthquake jar, in traversing the water,
has delivered its blow to the ship. As the speed of this jarring movement is very much greater
than that of any ordinary wave, the blow which it may strike may be most destructive. There
seems, indeed, little reason to doubt that a portion of the vessels which are ever disappearing
in the wilderness of the ocean are lost by the crushing effect of these quakings which pass
through the waters of the deep.

We have already spoken of the earthquake shock as an oscillation. It is a quality of all bodies
which oscillate under the influence of a blow, such as originates in earthquake shocks, to
swing to and fro, after the manner of the metal in a bell or a tuning fork, in a succession
of movements, each less than the preceding, until the impulse is worn out, or rather, we should
in strict sense say, changed to other forms of energy. The result is, that even in the slightest
earthquake shock the earth moves not once to and fro, but very many times. In a considerable
shock the successive diminishing swingings amount to dozens before they become so slight as
to elude perception. Although the first swaying is the strongest, and generally the most destructive,
the quick to-and-fro motions are apt to continue and to complete the devastation which the
first brings about. The vibrations due to any one shock take place with great rapidity. They
may, indeed, be compared to those movements which we perceive in the margin of a large bell
when it has received a heavy blow from the clapper. The reader has perhaps seen that for a
moment the rim of the bell vibrates with such rapidity that it has a misty look--that is, the
motions elude the sight. It is easy to see that a shaking of this kind is particularly calculated
to disrupt any bodies which stand free in the air and are supported only at their base.

In what we may call the natural architecture of the earth, the pinnacles and obelisks, such
as are formed in many high countries, the effect of these shakings is destructive, and, as
we have seen, even the firmer-placed objects, such as the strong-walled cliffs and steep slopes
of earth, break down under the assaults. It is therefore no matter of surprise that the buildings
which man erects, where they are composed of masonry, suffer greatly from these tremblings.
In almost all cases human edifices are constructed without regard to other problems of strength
than those which may be measured by their weight and the resistance to fracture from gravitation
alone. They are not built with expectation of a quaking, but of a firm-set earth.

The damage which earthquakes do to buildings is in most cases due to the fact that they sway
their walls out of plumb, so that they are no longer in position to support the weight which
they have to bear. The amount of this swaying is naturally very much greater than that which
the earth itself experiences in the movement. A building of any height with its walls unsupported
by neighbouring structures may find its roof rocked to and fro through an arc which has a length
of feet, while its base moves only through a length of inches. The reader may see an example
of this nature if he will poise a thin book or a bit of plank a foot long on top of a small
table; then jarring the table so that it swings through a distance of say a quarter of an inch,
he will see that the columnar object swings at its top through a much greater distance, and
is pretty sure to be overturned.

Where a building carries a load in its upper parts, such as may be afforded by its heavy roof
or the stores which it contains, the effect of an earthquake shock such as carries the earth
to and fro becomes much more destructive than it might otherwise be. This weight lags behind
when the earth slips forward in the first movement of the oscillation, with the effect that
the walls of the building are pretty sure to be thrust so far beyond the perpendicular that
they give way and are carried down by the weight which they bore. It has often been remarked
in earthquake shocks that tall columns, even where composed of many blocks, survive a shock
which overturns lower buildings where thin walls support several floors, on each of which is
accumulated a considerable amount of weight. In the case of the column, the strains are even,
and the whole structure may rock to and fro without toppling over. As the energy of the undulations
diminish, it gradually regains the quiet state without damage. In the ordinary edifice the
irregular disposition of the weight does not permit the uniform movement which may insure safety.
Thus, if the city of Washington should ever be violently shaken, the great obelisk, notwithstanding
that it is five hundred feet high, may survive a disturbance which would wreck the lower and
more massive edifices which lie about it.

Where, as is fortunately rarely the case, the great shock comes to the earth in a vertical
direction, the effect upon all movable objects is in the highest measure disastrous. In such
a case buildings are crushed as if by the stroke of a giant's hand. The roofs and floors are
at one stroke thrown to the foundations, and all the parts of the walls which are not supported
by strong masonry continuous from top to bottom are broken to pieces. In such cases it has
been remarked that the bodies of men are often thrown considerable distances. It is asserted,
indeed, that in the Riobamba shock they were cast upward to the height of more than ninety
feet. It is related that the solo survivor of a congregation which had hastened at the outset
of the disturbance into a church was thrown by the greatest and most destructive shock upward
and through a window the base of which was at the height of more than twenty feet from the ground.

It is readily understood that an earthquake shock may enter a building in any direction between
the vertical and the horizontal. As the movement exhausts itself in passing from the place
of its origin, the horizontal shocks are usually of least energy. Those which are accurately
vertical are only experienced where the edifices are placed immediately over the point where
the motion originates. It follows, therefore, that the destructive work of earthquakes is mainly
performed in that part of the field where the motion is, as regards its direction, between
the vertical and the horizontal--a position in which the edifice is likely to receive at once
the destructive effect arising from the sharp upward thrust of the vertical movement and the
oscillating action of that which is in a horizontal direction. Against strains of this description,
where the movements have an amplitude of more than a few inches, no ordinary masonry edifice
can be made perfectly safe; the only tolerable security is attained where the building is of
well-framed timber, which by its elasticity permits a good deal of motion without destructive
consequences. Even such buildings, however, those of the strongest type, may be ruined by the
greater earthquakes. Thus, in the Mississippi Valley earthquake of 1811, the log huts of the
frontiersmen, which are about as strong as any buildings can be made, were shaken to pieces
by the sharp and reiterated shocks.

It is by no means surprising to find that the style of architecture adopted in earthquake countries
differs from that which is developed in regions where the earth is firm-set. The people generally
learn that where their buildings must meet the trials of earthquakes they have to be low and
strong, framed in the manner of fortifications, to withstand the assault of this enemy. We
observe that Gothic architecture, where a great weight of masonry is carried upon slender columns
and walls divided by tall windows, though it became the dominant style in the relatively stable
lands of northern Europe, never gained a firm foothold in those regions about the Mediterranean
which are frequently visited by severe convulsions of the earth. There the Grecian or the Romanesque
styles, which are of a much more massive type, retain their places and are the fashions to
the present day. Even this manner of building, though affording a certain security against
slight tremblings, is not safe in the greater shocks. Again and again large areas in southern
Italy have been almost swept of their buildings by the destructive movements which occur in
that realm. The only people who have systematically adapted their architectural methods to
earthquake strains are the Japanese, who in certain districts where such risks are to be encountered
construct their dwellings of wood, and place them upon rollers, so that they may readily move
to and fro as the shock passes beneath them. In a measure the people of San Francisco have
also provided against this danger by avoiding dangerous weights in the upper parts of their
buildings, as well as the excessive height to which these structures are lifted in some of
our American towns.

Earthquakes of sensible energy appear to be limited to particular parts of the earth's crust.
The regions, indeed, where within the period of human history shocks of devastating energy
have occurred do not include more than one fifteenth part of the earth's surface. There is
a common notion that these movements are most apt to happen in volcanic regions. It is, indeed,
true that sensible shocks commonly attend the explosions from great craters, but the records
clearly show that these movements are very rarely of destructive energy. Thus in the regions
about the base of Vesuvius and of Ætna, the two volcanoes of which most is known, the shocks
have never been productive of extensive disaster. In fact, the reiterated slight jarrings which
attend volcanic action appear to prevent the formation of those great and slowly accumulated
strains which in their discharge produce the most violent tremblings of the earth. The greatest
and most continuous earthquake disturbances of history--that before noted in the early days
of this century, in the Mississippi Valley, where shocks of considerable violence continued
for two years--came about in a field very far removed from active volcanoes. So, too, the disturbances
beneath the Atlantic floor which originated the shocks that led to the destruction of Lisbon,
and many other similar though less violent movements, are developed in a field apparently remote
from living volcanoes. Eastern New England, which has been the seat of several considerable
earthquakes, is about as far away from active vents as any place on the habitable globe. We
may therefore conclude that, while volcanoes necessarily produce shocks resulting from the
discharge of their gases and the intrusion of lava into the dikes which are formed about them,
the greater part of the important shocks are in no wise connected with volcanic explosions.

With the exception of the earthquake in the Mississippi Valley, all the great shocks of which
we have a record have occurred in or near regions where the rocks have been extensively disturbed
by mountain-building forces, and where the indications lead us to believe that dislocations
of strata, such as are competent to rive the beds asunder, may still be in progress. This,
taken in connection with the fact that many of these shocks are attended by the formation of
fault planes, which appear on the surface, lead us to the conclusion that earthquakes of the
stronger kind are generally formed by the riving of fissures, which may or may not be developed
upward to the surface. This view is supported by many careful observations on the effect which
certain great earthquakes have exercised on the buildings which they have ravaged. The distinguished
observer, Mr. Charles Mallet, who visited the seat of the earthquake which, in 1854, occurred
in the province of Calabria in Italy, with great labour and skill determined the direction
in which the shock moved through some hundreds of edifices on which it left the marks of its
passage. Platting these lines of motion, he found that they were all referred to a vertical
plane lying at the depth of some miles beneath the surface, and extending for a great distance
in a north and south direction. This method of inquiry has been applied to other fields, with
the result that in the case of all the instances which have been subjected to this inquiry
the seat of the shock has been traced to such a plane, which can best be accounted for by the
supposition of a fault.

The method pursued by Mr. Mallet in his studies of the origin of earthquakes, and by those
who have continued his inquiry, may be briefly indicated as follows: Examining disrupted buildings,
it is easy to determine those which have been wrecked by a shock that emerged from the earth
in a vertical direction. In these cases, though tall walls may remain standing, the roofs and
floors are thrown into the cellars. With a dozen such instances the plane of what is called
the seismic vertical is established (seismos is the Greek for earthquake). Then on either side
of this plane, which indicates the line but not the depth of the disturbance, other observations
may be made which give the clew to the depth. Thus a building may be found where the northwest
corner at its upper part has been thrown off. Such a rupture was clearly caused by an upward
but oblique movement, which in the first half of the oscillation heaved the structure upwardly
into the northwest, and then in the second half, or rebound, drew the mass of the building
away from the unsupported corner, allowing that part of the masonry to fly off and fall to
the ground. Constructing a line at right angles to the plane of the fracture, it will be found
to intersect the plane, the position of which has been in part determined by finding the line
where it intersects the earth, or the seismic vertical before noted. Multiplying such observations
on either side of the last-mentioned line, the attitude of the underground parts of the plane,
as well as the depth to which it attained, can be approximately determined.

It is worth while to consider the extent to which earthquake shocks may affect the general
quality of the people who dwell in countries where these disturbances occur with such frequency
and violence as to influence their lives. There can be no question that wherever earthquakes
occur in such a measure as to produce widespread terror, where, recurring from time to time,
they develop in men a sense of abiding insecurity, they become potent agents of degradation.
All the best which men do in creating a civilization rests upon a sense of confidence that
their efforts may be accumulated from year to year, and that even after death the work of each
man may remain as a heritage to his kind. It is likely, indeed, that in certain realms, as
in southern Italy, a part of the failure of the people to advance in culture is due to their
long experience of such calamities, and the natural expectation that they will from time to
time recur. In a similar way the Spanish settlements in Central and South America, which lie
mostly in lands that are subject to disastrous shocks, may have been retarded by the despair,
as well as the loss of property and life, which these accidents have so frequently inflicted
upon them. It will not do, however, to attribute too much to such terrestrial influences. By
far the most important element in determining the destiny of a people is to be found in their
native quality, that which they owe to their ancestors of distant generations. In this connection
it is well to consider the history of the Icelandic people, where a small folk has for a thousand
years been exposed to a range and severity of trials, such as earthquakes, volcanic explosions,
and dearth of harvests may produce, and all these in a measure that few if any other countries
experience. Notwithstanding these misfortunes, the Icelanders have developed and maintained
a civilization which in all else, except its material results, on the average transcends that
which has been won by any other folk in modern times. If a people have the determining spirit
which leads to high living, they can successfully face calamities far greater than those which
earthquakes inflict.

It was long supposed that the regions where earthquakes are not noticeable by the unaided senses
were exempt from all such disturbances. The observations which seismologists have made in recent
years point to the conclusion that no part of the earth's surface is quite exempt from movements
which, though not readily perceived, can be made visible by the use of appropriate instruments.
With an apparatus known as the horizontal pendulum it is possible to observe vibrations which
do not exceed in amplitude the hundredth part of an inch. This mechanism consists essentially
of a slender bar supported near one end by two wires, one from above, the other from below.
It may readily be conceived that any measurable movement will cause the longer end of the rod
to sway through a considerable arc. Wherever such a pendulum has been carefully observed in
any district, it has been found that it indicates the occurrence of slight tremors. Even certain
changes of the barometer, which alter the weight of the atmosphere that rests upon the earth
to the amount indicated by an inch in the height of the mercury column, appears in all cases
to create such tremors. Many of these slight shocks may be due to the effect of more violent
quakings, which have run perhaps for thousands of miles from their point of origin, and have
thus been reduced in the amplitude of their movement. Others are probably due to the slight
motion brought about through the chemical changes of the rocks, which are continuously going
on. The ease with which even small motions are carried to a great distance may be judged by
the fact that when the ground is frozen the horizontal pendulum will indicate the jarring due
to a railway train at the distance of a mile or more from the track.

In connection with the earth jarring, it would be well to note the occurrence of another, though
physically different, kind of movement, which we may term earth swayings, or massive movements,
which slowly dislocate the vertical, and doubtless also the horizontal, position of points
upon its surface. It has more than once been remarked that in mountain countries, where accurate
sights have been taken, the heights of points between the extremities of a long line appear
somewhat to vary in the course of a term of years. Thus at a place in the Apennines, where
two buildings separated by some miles of distance are commonly intervisible over the crest
of a neighbouring peak, it has happened that a change of level of some one of the points has
made it impossible to see the one edifice from the other. Knowing as we do that the line of
the seacoast is ever-changing, uprising taking place at some points and down-sinking at others,
it seems not unlikely that these irregular swayings are of very common occurrence. Moreover,
astronomers are beginning to remark the fact that their observatories appear not to remain
permanently in the same position--that is, they do not have exactly the same latitude and longitude.
Certain of these changes have recently been explained by the discovery of a new and hitherto
unnoted movement of the polar axis. It is not improbable, however, that the irregular swaying
of the earth's crust, due to the folding of strata and to the alterations in the volume of
rocks which are continually going on, may have some share in bringing about these dislocations.

Measured by the destruction which was wrought to the interests of man, earthquakes deserve
to be reckoned among the direst calamities of Nature. Since the dawn of history the records
show us that the destruction of life which is to be attributed to them is to be counted by
the millions. A catalogue of the loss of life in the accidents of this description which have
occurred during the Christian era has led the writer to suppose that probably over two million
persons have perished from these shocks in the last nineteen centuries. Nevertheless, as compared
with other agents of destruction, such as preventable disease, war, or famine, the loss which
has been inflicted by earth movements is really trifling, and almost all of it is due to an
obstinate carelessness in the construction of buildings without reference to the risks which
are known to exist in earthquake-ridden countries.

Although all our exact knowledge concerning the distribution of earthquakes is limited to the
imperfect records of two or three thousand years, it is commonly possible to measure in a general
way the liability to such accidents which may exist in any country by a careful study of the
details of its topography. In almost every large area the process of erosion naturally leaves
quantities of rock, either in the form of detached columns or as detrital accumulations deposited
on steep slopes. These features are of relatively slow formation, and it is often possible
to determine that they have been in their positions for a time which is to be measured by thousands
of years. Thus, on inspecting a country such as North America, where the historic records cover
but a brief time, we may on inquiry determine which portions of its area have long been exempt
from powerful shocks. Where natural obelisks and steep taluses abound--features which would
have disappeared if the region had been moved by great shocks--we may be sure that the field
under inspection has for a great period been exempt from powerful shaking. Judged by this standard,
we may safely say that the region occupied by the Appalachian Mountains has been exempt from
serious trouble. So, too, the section of the Cordilleras lying to the east of what is commonly
called the Great Basin, between the Rocky Mountains and the Sierra Nevada, has also enjoyed
a long reign of peace. In glaciated countries the record is naturally less clear than in those
parts of the world which have been subjected to long-continued, slow decay of the rocks. Nevertheless,
in those fields boulders are often found poised in position which they could not have maintained
if subjected to violent shaking. Judged by this evidence, we may say that a large part of the
northern section of this continent, particularly the area about the Great Lakes, has been exempt
from considerable shocks since the glacier passed away.

The shores which are subject to the visitations of the great marine waves, caused by earthquake
shocks occurring beneath the bottom of the neighbouring ocean, are so swept by those violent
inundations that they lose many features which are often found along coasts that have been
exempted from such visitations. Thus wherever we find extensive and delicately moulded dunes,
poised stones, or slender pinnacled rocks along a coast, we may be sure that since these features
were formed the district has not been swept by these great waves.

Around the northern Atlantic we almost everywhere find the glacial waste here and there accumulated
near the margin of the sea in the complicated sculptured outlines which are assumed by kame
sands and gravels. From a study of these features just above the level of high tide, the writer
has become convinced that the North Atlantic district has long been exempt from the assaults
of other waves than those which are produced during heavy storms. At the present time the waves
formed by earthquakes appear to be of destructive violence only on the west coast of South
America, where they roll in from a region of the Pacific lying to the south of the equator
and a few hundred miles from the shore of the continent, which appears to be the seat of exceedingly
violent shocks. A similar field occurs in the Atlantic between the Lesser Antilles and the
Spanish peninsula, but no great waves have come thence since the time of the Lisbon earthquake.
The basin of the Caribbean and the region about Java appear to be also fields where these disturbances
may be expected, though in each but one wave of this nature has been recorded. Therefore we
may regard these secondary results of a submarine earthquake as seldom phenomena.

                  DURATION OF GEOLOGICAL TIME.

Although it is beyond the power of man to conceive any such lapses of time as have taken place
in the history of this earth, it is interesting, and in certain ways profitable, to determine
as near as possible in the measure of years the duration of the events which are recorded in
the rocks. Some astronomers, basing their conclusions on the heat-containing power of matter,
and on the rate at which energy in this form flows from the sun, have come to the conclusion
that our planet could not have been in independent existence for more than about twenty million
years. The geologist, however, resting his conclusions on the records which are the subject
of his inquiry, comes on many different lines to an opinion which traverses that entertained
by some distinguished astronomers. The ways in which the student of the earth arrives at this
opinion will now be set forth.

By noting the amount of sediment carried forth to the sea by the rivers, the geologist finds
that the lands of the earth--those, at least, which are protected by their natural envelopes
of vegetation--are wearing down at a rate which pretty certainly does not exceed one foot in
about five thousand years, or two hundred feet in a million years. Discovering at many places
on the earth's surface deposits which originally had a thickness of five thousand feet or more,
which have been worn down to the depths of thousands of feet in a single rather brief section
of geological time, the student readily finds himself prepared to claim that a period of from
five to ten million years has often been required for the accomplishment of but a very small
part of the changes which he knows to have occurred on this earth.

As the geologist follows down through the sections of the stratified rocks, and from the remains
of strata determines the erosion which has borne away the greater part of the thick deposits
which have been exposed to erosion, he comes upon one of those breaks in the succession, or
encounters what is called an unconformity, as when horizontal strata lie against those which
are tilted. In many cases he may observe that at this time there was a great interval unrepresented
by deposits at the place where his observations are made, yet a great lapse of time is indicated
by the fact that a large amount of erosion took place in the interval between the two sets of beds.

Putting together the bits of record, and assuming that the rate of erosion accomplished by
the agents which operate on the land has always been about the same, the geologist comes to
the conclusion that the section of the rocks from the present day to the lowest strata of the
Laurentian represents in the time required for their formation not less than a hundred million
years; more likely twice that duration. To this argument objection is made by some naturalists
that the agents of erosion may have been more active in the past than they are at present.
They suggest that the rainfall may have been much greater or the tides higher than they now
are. Granting all that can be claimed on this score, we note the fact that the rate of erosion
evidently does not increase in anything like a proportionate way with the amount of rainfall.
Where a country is protected by its natural coating of vegetation, the rain is delivered to
the streams without making any considerable assault upon the surface of the earth, however
large the fall may be. Moreover, the tides have little direct cutting power; they can only
remove detritus which other agents have brought into a condition to be borne away. The direct
cutting power of the tidal movement does not seem to be much greater in the Bay of Fundy, where
the maximum height of the waves amounts to fifty feet, than on the southern coast of Massachusetts,
where the range is not more than five. So far as the observer can judge, the climatal conditions
and the other influences which affect the wear of rocks have not greatly varied in the past
from what they are at the present day. Now and then there have been periods of excessive erosion;
again, ages in which large fields were in the conditions of exceeding drought. It is, however,
a fair presumption that these periods in a way balance each other, and that the average state
was much like that which we find at present.

If after studying the erosive phenomena exhibited in the structure of the earth the student
takes up the study of the accumulations of strata, and endeavours to determine the time required
for the laying down of the sediments, he finds similar evidence of the earth's great antiquity.
Although the process of deposition, which has given us the rocks visible in the land masses,
has been very much interrupted, the section which is made by grouping the observations made
in various fields shows that something like a maximum thickness of a hundred and fifty thousand
feet of beds has been accumulated in that part of geologic time during which strata were being
laid down in the fields that are subjected to our study. Although in these rocks there are
many sets of beds which were rapidly formed, the greater part of them have been accumulated
with exceeding slowness. Many fine shales, such as those which plentifully occur in the Devonian
beds of this country, must have required a thousand years or more for the deposition of the
materials that now occupy an inch in depth. In those sections a single foot of the rock may
well represent a period of ten thousand years. In many of the limestones the rate of accumulation
could hardly have been more speedy. The reckoning has to be rough, but the impression which
such studies make upon the mind of the unprejudiced observer is to the effect that the thirty
miles or so of sedimentary deposits could not have been formed in less than a hundred million
years. In this reckoning it should be noted that no account is taken of those great intervals
of unrecorded time, such as elapsed between the close of the Laurentian and the beginning of
the Cambrian periods.

There is a third way in which we may seek an interpretation of duration from the rocks. In
each successive stage of the earth's history, in different measure in the various ages, mountains
were formed which in time, during their exposure to the conditions of the land, were worn down
to their roots and covered by deposits accumulated during the succeeding ages. A score or more
of these successively constructed series of elevations may readily be observed. Of old, it
was believed that mountain ranges were suddenly formed, but there is, however, ample evidence
to prove that these disturbed portions of the strata were very gradually dislocated, the rate
of the mountainous growth having been, in general, no greater in the past than it is at the
present day, when, as we know full well, the movements are going on so slowly that they escape
observation. Only here and there, as an attendant on earthquake shocks or other related movements
of the crust, do we find any trace of the upward march which produces these elevations. Although
not a subject for exact measurements, these features of mountain growth indicate a vast lapse
of time, during which the elevations were formed and worn away.

Yet another and very different method by which we may obtain some gauge of the depths of the
past is to be found in the steps which have led organic life from its lowest and earliest known
forms to the present state of advancement. Taking the changes of species which have occurred
since the beginning of the last ice epoch, we find that the changes which have been made in
the organic life have been very small; no naturalist who has obtained a clear idea of the facts
will question the statement that they are not a thousandth part of the alterations which have
occurred since the Laurentian time. The writer is of the opinion that they do not represent
the ten thousandth part of those vast changes. These changes are limited in the main to the
disappearance of a few forms, and to slight modifications in those previously in existence
which have survived to the present day. So far as we can judge, no considerable step in the
organic series has taken place in this last great period of the earth's history, although it
has been a period when, as before noted, all the conditions have combined to induce rapid modifications
in both animals and plants. If, then, we can determine the duration of this period, we may
obtain a gauge of some general value.

Although we can not measure in any accurate way the duration of the events which have taken
place since the last Glacial period began to wane, a study of the facts seems to show that
less than a hundred thousand years can not well be assumed for this interval. Some of the students
who have approached the subject are disposed to allow a period of at least twice this length
as necessary for the perspective which the train of events exhibits. Reckoning on the lowest
estimate, and counting the organic changes which take place during the age as amounting to
the thousandth part of the organic changes since the Laurentian age, we find ourselves in face
once again of that inconceivable sum which was indicated by the physical record.

Here, again, the critics assert that there may have been periods in the history of the earth
when the changes of organic life occurred in a far swifter manner than in this last section
of the earth's history. This supposition is inadmissible, for it rests on no kind of proof;
it is, moreover, contraindicated by the evident fact that the advance in the organic series
has been more rapid in recent time than at any stage of the past. In a word, all the facts
with which the geologist deals are decidedly against the assumption that terrestrial changes
in the organic or the inorganic world ever proceed in a spasmodic manner. Here and there, and
from time to time, local revolutions of a violent nature undoubtedly occur, but, so far as
we may judge from the aspect of the present or the records of the past, these accidents are
strictly local; the earth has gone forward in its changes much as it is now advancing. Its
revolutions have been those of order rather than those of accident.

The first duty of the naturalist is to take Nature as he finds it. He must avoid supposing
any methods of action which are not clearly indicated in the facts that he observes. The history
of his own and of all other sciences clearly shows that danger is always incurred where suppositions
as to peculiar methods of action are introduced into the interpretation. It required many centuries
of labour before the students of the earth came to adopt the principle of explaining the problems
with which they had to deal by the evidence that the earth submitted to them. Wherever they
trusted to their imaginations for guidance, they fell into error. Those who endeavour to abbreviate
our conception of geologic time by supposing that in the olden days the order of events was
other than that we now behold are going counter to the best traditions of the science.

Although the aspect of the record of life since the beginning of the Cambrian time indicates
a period of at least a hundred million years, it must not be supposed that this is the limit
of the time required for the development of the organic series. All the important types of
animals were already in existence in that ancient period with the exception of the vertebrates,
the remains of which have apparently now been traced down to near the Cambrian level. In other
words, at the stage where we first find evidence of living beings the series to which they
belong had already climbed very far above the level of lifeless matter. Few naturalists will
question the statement that half the work of organic advance had been accomplished at the beginning
of the Cambrian rocks. The writer is of the opinion that the development which took place before
that age must have required a much longer period than has elapsed from that epoch to the present
day. We thus come to the conclusion that the measurement of duration afforded by organic life
indicates a yet more lengthened claim of events, and demands more time than appears to be required
for the formation of the stratified rocks.

The index of duration afforded by the organic series is probably more trustworthy than that
which is found in the sedimentary strata, and this for the reason that the records of those
strata have been subjected to numerous and immeasurable breaks, while the development of organic
life has of necessity been perfectly continuous. The one record can at any point be broken
without interrupting the sequences; the other does not admit of any breaches in the continuity.

                             THE MOON.

Set over against the earth--related to, yet contrasted with it in many ways--the moon offers
a most profitable object to the student of geology. He should often turn to it for those lessons
which will be briefly noted.

In the beginning of their mutual history the materials of earth and moon doubtless formed one
vaporous body which had been parted from the concentrating mass of the sun in the manner noted
in the sketch of the history of the solar system. After the earth-moon body had gathered into
a nebulous sphere, it is most likely that a ring resembling that still existing about Saturn
was formed about the earth, which in time consolidated into the satellite. Thenceforth the
two bodies were parted, except for the gravitative attraction which impelled them to revolve
about their common centre of gravity, and except for the light and heat they might exchange
with one another.

The first stages after the parting of the spheres of earth and moon appear to have been essentially
the same in each body. Concentrating upon their centres, they became in time fluid by heat;
further on, they entered the rigid state--in a word, they froze--at least in their outer parts.
At this point in their existence their histories utterly diverge; or rather, we may say, the
development of the earth continued in a vast unfolding, while that of the moon appears to have
been absolutely arrested in ways which we will now describe.

With the naked eye we see on the moon a considerable variation in the light of different parts
of its surface; we discern that the darker patches appear to be rudely circular, and that they
run together on their margins. Seeing this little, the ancients fancied that our satellite
had seas and lands like the earth. The first telescopes did not dispel their fancies; even
down to the early part of this century there were astronomers who believed the moon to be habitable;
indeed, they thought to find evidence that it was the dwelling place of intelligent beings
who built cities, and who tried to signal their intellectual kindred of this planet. When,
however, strong glasses were applied to the exploration, these pleasing fancies were rudely
dispelled.

Seen with a telescope of the better sort, the moon reveals itself to be in large part made
up of circular depressions, each surrounded by a ringlike wall, with nearly level but rough
places between. The largest of these walled areas is some four hundred miles in diameter; thence
they grade down to the smallest pits which the glass can disclose, which are probably not over
as many feet across. The writer, from a careful study of these pits, has come to the conclusion
that the wider are the older and the smaller the last formed. The rude elevations about these
pits--some of which rise to the height of ten thousand feet or more--constitute the principal
topographic reliefs of the lunar surface. Besides the pits above mentioned, there are numerous
fractures in the surface of the plains and ringlike ridges; on the most of these the walls
have separated, forming trenches not unlike what we find in the case of some terrestrial breaks
such as have been noted about volcanoes and elsewhere. It may be that the so-called canals
of Mars are of the same nature.

The most curious feature on the moon's surface are the bands of lighter colour, which, radiating
from certain of the volcanolike pits--those of lesser size and probably of latest origin--extend
in some cases for five hundred miles or more across the surface. These light bands have never
been adequately explained. It seems most likely that they are stains along the sides of cracks,
such as are sometimes observed about volcanoes.

The eminent peculiarity of the moon is that it is destitute of any kind of gaseous or aqueous
envelope. That there is no distinct atmosphere is clearly shown by the perfectly sharp and
sudden way in which the light of a star disappears when it goes behind the moon and the clear
lines of the edge of the satellite in a solar eclipse. The same evidence shows that there is
no vapour of water; moreover, a careful search which the writer has made shows that the surface
has none of those continuous down grades which mark the work of water flowing over the land.
Nearly all of the surface consists of shallow or deep pits, such as could not have been formed
by water action. We therefore have not only to conclude that the moon is waterless, but that
it has been in this condition ever since the part that is turned toward us was shaped.

As the moon, except for the slight movement termed its "libration," always turns the same face
to us, so that we see in all only about four sevenths of its surface, it has naturally been
conjectured that the unseen side, which is probably some miles lower than that turned toward
us, might have a different character from that which we behold. There are reasons why this
is improbable. In the first place, we see on the extreme border of the moon, when the libration
turns one side the farthest around toward the earth, the edge of a number of the great walled
pits such as are so plenty on the visible area; it is fair to assume that these rings are completed
in the invisible realm. On this basis we can partly map about a third of the hidden side. Furthermore,
there are certain bands of light which, though appearing on the visible side, evidently converge
to some points on the other. It is reasonable to suppose that, as all other bands radiate from
walled pits, these also start from such topographic features. In this way certain likenesses
of the hidden area to that which is visible is established, thus making it probable that the
whole surface of the satellite has the same character.

Clearly as the greater part of the moon is revealed to us--so clearly, indeed, that it is possible
to map any elevation of its surface that attains the height of five hundred feet--the interpretation
of its features in the light of geology is a matter of very great difficulty. The main points
seem to be tolerably clear; they are as follows: The surface of the moon as we see it is that
which was formed when that body, passing from the state of fluidity from heat, formed a solid
crust. The pits which we observe on its surface are the depressions which were formed as the
mass gradually ceased to boil. The later formed of these openings are the smaller, as would
be the case in such a slowing down of a boiling process.

As the diameter of the moon is only about one fourth of that of the earth, its bulk is only
about one sixteenth of that of its planet; consequently, it must have cooled to the point of
solidification ages before the larger sphere attained that state. It is probable that the same
changeless face that we see looked down for millions of years on an earth which was still a
seething, fiery mass. In a word, all that vast history which is traceable in the rocks beneath
our feet--which is in progress in the seas and lands and is to endure for an inconceivable
time to come--has been denied our satellite, for the reason that it had no air with which to
entrap the solar heat and no water to apply the solar energy to evolutionary processes. The
heat which comes upon the moon as large a share for each equal area as it comes upon the earth
flies at once away from the airless surface, at most giving it a temporary warmth, but instituting
no geological work unless it be a little movement from the expansion and contraction of the
rocks. During the ages in which the moon has remained thus lifeless the earth, owing to its
air and water, has applied a vast amount of solar energy to geological work in the development
and redevelopment of its geological features and to the processes of organic life. We thus
see the fundamental importance of the volatile envelopes of our sphere, how absolutely they
have determined its history.

It would be interesting to consider the causes which led to the absence of air and water on
the moon, but this matter is one of the most debatable of all that relates to that sphere;
we shall therefore have to content ourselves with the above brief statements as to the vast
and far-acting effects which have arisen from the non-existence of those envelopes on our nearest
neighbour of the heavens.

                  METHODS IN STUDYING GEOLOGY.

So far as possible the preceding pages, by the method adopted in the presentation of facts,
will serve to show the student the ways in which he may best undertake to trace the order of
events exhibited in the phenomena of the earth. Following the plan pursued, we shall now consider
certain special points which need to be noted by those who would adopt the methods of the geologist.

At the outset of his studies it may be well for the inquirer to note the fact that familiarity
with the world about him leads the man in all cases to a certain neglect and contempt of all
the familiar presentations of Nature. We inevitably forget that those points of light in the
firmament are vast suns, and we overlook the fact that the soil beneath our feet is not mere
dirt, but a marvellous structure, more complicated in its processes than the chemist's laboratory,
from which the sustenance of our own and all other lives is drawn. We feel our own bodies as
dear but commonplace possessions, though we should understand them as inheritances from the
inconceivable past, which have come to us through tens of thousands of different species and
hundreds of millions of individual ancestors. We must overlook these things in our common life.
If we could take them into account, each soul would carry the universe as an intellectual burden.

It is, however, well from time to time to contemplate the truth, and to force ourselves to
see that all this apparently simple and ordinary medley of the world about us is a part of
a vast procession of events, coming forth from the darkness of the past and moving on beyond
the light of the present day. Even in his professional work the naturalist of necessity falls
into the commonplace way of regarding the facts with which he deals. If he be an astronomer,
he catalogues the stars with little more sense of the immensities than the man who keeps a
shop takes account of his wares. Nevertheless, the real profit of all learning is in the largeness
of the understanding which it develops in man. The periods of growth in knowledge are those
in which the mind, enriched by its store, enlarges its conception while it escapes from commonplace
ways of thought. With this brief mention of what is by far the most important principle of
guidance which the student can follow, we will turn to the questions of method that the student
need follow in his ordinary work.

With almost all students a difficulty is encountered which hinders them in acquiring any large
views as to the world about them. This is due to the fact that they can not make and retain
in memory clear pictures of the things they see. They remember words rather than things--in
fact, the training in language, which is so large a part of an education, tends ever to diminish
the element of visual memory. The first task of the student who would become a naturalist is
to take his knowledge from the thing, and to remember it by the mental picture of the thing.
In all education in Nature, whether the student is guided by his own understanding or that
of the teacher, a first and very continuous aim should be to enforce the habit of recalling
very distinct images of all objects which it is desired to remember. To this end the student
should practise himself by looking intently upon a landscape or any other object; then, turning
away, he should try to recall what he has beheld. After a moment the impression by the sight
should be repeated, and the study of the memory renewed. The writer knows by his own experience
that even in middle-aged people, where it is hard to breed new habits, such deliberate training
can greatly increase the capacity of the memory for taking in and reproducing images which
are deemed of importance. Practice of this kind should form a part of every naturalist's daily
routine. After a certain time, it need not be consciously done. The movements of thought and
action will, indeed, become as automatic as those which the trained fencer makes with his foil.

Along with the habit of visualizing memories, and of storing them without the use of words,
the student should undertake to enlarge his powers of conceiving spaces and directions as they
exist in the field about him. Among savages and animals below the grade of man, this understanding
of spacial relations is very clear and strong. It enables the primitive man to find his way
through the trackless forest, and the carrier pigeon to recover his mate and dwelling place
from the distance of hundreds of miles away. In civilized men, however, the habit of the home
and street and the disuse of the ancient freedom has dulled, and in some instances almost destroyed,
all sense of this shape of the external world. The best training to recover this precious capacity
will now be set forth.

The student should begin by drawing a map on a true scale, however roughly the work may be
done, of those features of the earth about him with which he is necessarily most familiar.
The task may well be begun with his own dwelling or his schoolroom. Thence it may be extended
so as to include the plan of the neighbouring streets or fields. At first, only directions
and distances should be platted. After a time to these indications should be added on the map
lines indicating in a general way contours or the lines formed by horizontal planes intersecting
the area subject to delineation. After attaining certain rude skill in such work, the student
may advantageously make excursions to districts which he can see only in a hurried way. As
he goes, he should endeavour to note on a sketch map the positions of the hills and streams
and the directions of the roads. A year of holiday practice in such work will, if the tasks
occupy somewhere about a hundred hours of his time, serve greatly to extend or reawaken what
may be called the topographic sense, and enable him to place in terms of space the observations
of Nature which he may make.

In his more detailed work the student should select some particular field for his inquiry.
If he be specially interested in geologic phenomena, he will best begin by noting two classes
of facts--those exhibited in the rocks as they actually appear in the state of repose as shown
in the outcrops of his neighbourhood, and those shown in the active manifestations of geological
work, the decay of the rocks and the transportation of their waste, or, if the conditions favour,
the complicated phenomena of the seashores.

As soon as the student begins to observe, he should begin to make a record of his studies.
To the novice in any science written, and particularly sketched, notes are of the utmost importance.
These, whether in words or in drawings, should be made in face of the facts; they should, indeed,
be set down at the close of an observation, though not until the observer feels that the object
he is studying has yielded to him all which it can at that time give. It is well to remark
that where a record is made at the outset of a study the student is apt to feel that he is
in some way pledged to shape all he may see to fit that which he has first written. In his
early experience as a teacher, the writer was accustomed to have students compare their work
of observation and delineation with that done by trained men on the same ground. It now seems
to him best for the beginner at first to avoid all such reference of his own work to that of
others. So great is the need of developing independent motive that it is better at the outset
to make many blunders than to secure accuracy by trust in a leader. The skilful teacher can
give fitting words of caution which may help a student to find the true way, but any reference
of his undertakings to masterpieces is sure to breed a servile habit. Therefore such comparisons
are fitting only after the habit of free work has been well formed. The student who can afford
the help of a master, or, better, the assistance of many, such as some of our universities
offer, should by all means avail himself of this resource. More than any other science, geology,
because of the complexity of the considerations with which it has to deal, depends upon methods
of labour which are to a great extent traditional, and which can not, indeed, be well transmitted
except in the personal way. In the distinctly limited sciences, such as mathematics, physics,
or even those which deal with organic bodies, the methods of work can be so far set forth in
printed directions that the student may to a great extent acquire sound ways of work without
the help of a teacher.

Although there is a vast and important literature concerning geology, the greater part of it
is of a very special nature, and will convey to the beginner no substantial information whatever.
It is not until he has become familiar with the field with which he is enabled to deal in the
actual way that he can transfer experience thus acquired to other grounds. Therefore beyond
the pleasing views which he may obtain by reading certain general works on the science, the
student should at the outset of his inquiry limit his work as far as possible to his field
of practice, using a good text-book, such as Dana's Manual of Geology, as a source of suggestions
as to the problems which his field may afford.

The main aim of the student in this, as in other branches of inquiry, is to gain practice in
following out the natural series of actions. To the primitive man the phenomenal world presents
itself as a mere phantasmagoria, a vast show in which the things seen are only related to each
other by the fact that they come at once into view. The end of science is to divine the order
of this host, and the ways in which it is marshalled in its onward movement and the ends to
which its march appears to be directed. So far as the student observes well, and thus gains
a clear notion of separated facts, he is in a fair way to gather the data of knowledge which
may be useful; but the real value of these discernments is not gained until the observations
go together, so as to make something with a perspective. Until the store of separate facts
is thus arranged, it is merely crude material for thought; it is not in the true meaning science,
any more than a store of stone and mortar is architecture. When the student has developed an
appetite for the appreciation of order and sources of energy in phenomena, he has passed his
novitiate, and becomes one of that happy body of men who not only see what is perceived by
the mass of their fellows, but are enabled to look through those chains of action which, when
comprehended, serve to rationalize and ennoble all that the senses of man, aided by the instruments
which he has devised, tell us concerning the visible world.

                                INDEX.

    Ætna, Mount, 381.

    Agriculture,
      American, 346;
      in England, winning swamp lands for, 335;
      recent developments of, 345.

    Alaska, changes on the coast of, 96.

    Ants taking food underground, 319;
      work of the, on the soil, 318.

    Apsides, revolution of the, 61, 62.

    Arabians, chemical experiments of the, 13.

    Arches, natural, in cavern districts, 258.

    Artesian wells, 258, 259.

    Arts, advance of Italian fine, 19.

    Asteroids, 53;
      motions of, about their centres and about the sun, 53.

    Astronomers, the solar system and the early, 79.

    Astronomy, 31-80;
      growth of, since the time of Galileo, 33, 34;
      the first science, 10.

    Atmosphere, 97-206;
      along the tropical belt, 102;
      as a medium of communication between different regions, 99;
      deprived of water, containing little heat, 105;
      beginning of the science of the, 117;
      counter-trade movements of the, 105;
      envelope of the earth, 98;
      expansion of, in a hollow wall during the passage of a storm, 114;
      heat-carrying power of the, 105;
      heights to which it extends, 99;
      in water, 99;
      movements no direct influence on the surface of the earth, 122;
      movements of the, qualified by the condition which
            it encounters, 118;
      of mountains, 98;
      of the seashore, 98;
      of the earth, 98;
      of the sun, 73;
      snow as an evidence of, 65;
      supplying needs of underground creatures, 331;
      uprushes of, 101, 102;
      upward strain of the, next the earth, 107;
      weight and motion of the, 120, 121.

    Atmospheric circulation of the soil, 330, 331;
      envelopes, 97.

    Aurora borealis, 168.

    Avalanches, 210-213;
      dreaded, in the Alpine regions, 212;
      great, in the Swiss Oberland, 211, 212;
      rocky, 175-177.

    Axis,
      imaginary changes in the earth's, 59;
      of the earth's rotation, 58;
      polar, inclined position of, 58;
      polar, nodding movement of the axes, 54;
      rotations of the planetary spheres on their axes, 56.

    Barometer, causes of changes in the, 117, 118.

    Basalts, 309.

    Beaches, 93, 142, 144;
      boulder, 142, 143;
      pebbly, 142;
      sand, 144.

    Beetles, work of, on the soil, 318, 319.

    Belief of the early astronomers about the solar system, 79.

    Bergschrund, the, 214.

    Birds and mammals contributing to the fertility of the soil, 319.

    "Blanketing," 269.

    Bogs,
      climbing, 331-334;
      lake, 331-333;
      peat, 334, 335;
      quaking, 334.

    Botany, rapid advance in, 14, 15.

    Boulders, 217, 220.

    Breakers, 135, 137, 139.

    Bridges, natural, 257, 258.

    Canals of Mars, 67.

    Cañon, newly formed river cutting a, 195.

    Cataracts, 193.

    Caves, 253-258, 261;
      architecture of, 255-258;
      hot-water, 261;
      mammoth cave, 258;
      stalactites and stalagmites on the roof and floor of, 257.

    Chasms, 140, 141.

    Chemistry, 6, 12, 14;
      advance of, 12;
      modern, evolving from the studies of alchemists, 13, 14.

    Chromosphere, 73.

    Civilization of the Icelanders, 384.

    Cliffs, sea-beaten, 132, 141, 142.

    Climate,
      changes of, due to modifications of the ocean streams, 153;
      effect of the ocean on the, 147;
      of the Gulf Stream, 149, 150.

    Clouds, 159;
      formation of, 162, 163;
      shape of, 163;
      water of, usually frozen, 207;
      cloud-making, laws of, 161, 162.

    Coast,
      changes on the Scandinavian, 96;
      line, effect of tide on the, 145;
      of Greenland, 226;
      of New Jersey sinking, 95;
      marine, changes in, 95.

    Cold in Siberia, 243.

    Comets, 47, 50;
      collisions of, 50;
      kinship of meteorites and, 48;
      omens of calamity to the ancients, 50;
      the great, of 1811, 49, 50.

    Cones. See under VOLCANOES.

    Conflict between religion and science, 20, 22;
      between the Protestant countries and the followers of science, 20.

    Continental shelves, 125.

    Continents and oceans, 83;
      changes in position of, 91;
      cyclones of the, 111;
      forms of, 90;
      proofs that they have endured for many years, 92;
      shape of, 84, 96.

    Coral reefs, 153, 353.

    Corona, realm of the, 73.

    Craters. See under VOLCANOES.

    Crevasse, a barrier to the explorer, 218.

    Crevice water, 250.

    Curds, 214.

    Currents,
      coral reefs in Florida affecting the velocity of, 153;
      equatorial, 150;
      of the Gulf Stream, 147-149;
      hot and cold, of the sea, 102;
      ocean, 145;
      oceanic action of trade winds on, 145;
      effect on migration of, 157;
      icebergs indicating, 243;
      surface, history of, 172;
      uprushing, near the equator, 106.

    Cyclones, 111;
      cause of, 111;
      of North America, 111;
      secondary storms of, 112.

    Deltas, 173, 187.

    Deposits, vein, 260, 261.

    Deserts, interior, 158.

