 Six of the characters, which are several
times repeated, however, exist in the right hand portion of the Lybian inscription at Dugga,
but the introduction, in other parts of the monumental text, of the Arabic element of notation
by curved lines, tends to lessen the probability of the Lybian origin of our western inscription,
while it adds additional force to the suggestions of Mr. Rafn. It is also to be noticed that
M. Jomard employed an inaccurate copy of the inscription which was furnished him some years
ago by Mr. Vail.

      [6] Vide Notes on the Iroquois. 

And claims among who gave that which was demanded were the comprehends, have indeed includes
the Nations, Dolopians, Comprehends, 113 Perraibians, Locrians, Megnesians, Malians, Claims of Phthiotis,
and Thebans, of rest have put excepting Boeotians in Thespians and Plataians.


The discovery of the continent, was, indeed, a geographical wonder. It was made contrary to
the predictions of the times. Such a discovery was not only opposed by popular opinion; but
Columbus himself expected no such thing. He sought only a new passage to the East Indies. He
insisted, with a noble constancy, that he should find land in sailing west. But he did not
expect to find, as if by the power of necromancy, that a vast continent should rise up before
his eyes. And it is altogether questionable, whether the great navigator did not die without
a true knowledge of this fact. It will be recollected that it was not until six years after
his death, which happened in 1506, that Balboa first discovered the Pacific from the heights
of Panama, and thus truly revealed the position of the Continent.

Sages and Philosophers do not admire results which have fallen out contrary to their expressed
views; but, in this case, the discovery proved so astounding that all Europe joined in extolling,
what all Europe had a little before, disbelieved. A continent stretching little under 10,000
miles, from south to north, with a maximum breath of 2000 miles, between sea and sea, rivers,
such as the La Plata and the Amazon--mountains like that of the Andes, whose highest peak rises
20,280 feet above the sea--Volcanoes, which cast their fires over plains of interminable extent--tropical
fruits of every kind--mines of gold and silver the richest the world had ever known--these
were some of the features that America brought to light, while it added one-third to the known
area, and more than one-third to the commercial resources of the world.

But while men gazed at its lofty mountains, and geological magnificence, the ancient race of
men, who were found here, constituted by far the most curious and thought-inspiring problem.
Volcanoes and vast plains and mountains were elements in the geography of the old world, and
their occurrence here, soon assimilated their discovery to other features of the kind. But
the red man continued to furnish a theme for speculation and inquiry, which time has not satisfied.
Columbus, supposing himself to have found, what he had sailed for, and judging from physical
characteristics alone, called them Indians. Usage has perpetuated the term. But if, by the
term, it is designed to consider them as of that part of India, which is filled with the Hindoo
race, there is but little resemblance beyond mere physical traits. Of the leading idea of the
multiform incarnations of the terrible, and degraded Hindoo deities--of the burning of widows
at the funereal pile--of infanticide--of the gross idolatry rendered to images, like those
of Vishnoo and Juggernaut, there is nothing. The degraded forms of superstition and human vice
which are practised on the Ganges and the Burrampooter, are unknown on the Mississippi and
the Missouri. Nor have we found, so far as I am aware, a single word in the American languages,
which exists in the Hindostanee.

The philosophers and ecclesiastics of the sixteenth century, who discussed the subject of the
origin of the American Tribes, have left scarcely a portion of the globe untouched by their
researches, or from which, they have not attempted, by some analogies, to deduce them. Generalization,
as soon as Columbus returned from his first voyage, took an unlimited latitude; and theories
were advanced with a degree of confidence, which was, in some measure, proportioned to the
remoteness of the position of the writers, from both the stock of people found, and those of
nations with whom they were sought to be compared. Scholars ransacked the archives of European
archæology. They found some allusions in the Greek drama, to ancient discoveries beyond the
pillars of Hercules. They speculated on the story of Atlantis, and the Fortunate Islands. They
drew parallels between the hunter and corn planting tribes of America, and the lost ten tribes
of Israel, who were graziers. They located ancient Ophir, where of all places it had certainly
never been, namely, in America. They were satisfied with general resemblances in manners and
customs, which mark uncivilized nations, in distant parts of the world, who assimilate, in
some traits, from mere parity of circumstances, but between whom there are in reality, no direct
affinities of blood and lineage. And they left the question, to all practical and satisfactory
ends, precisely where they found it. It was still to be answered, WHO ARE THE INDIANS?

The present age is, in many respects, better prepared to undertake the examination of the question.
The time which has passed away since Columbus dropped anchor at the island of Guanahani, has
rendered distant nations on the globe far better acquainted with each other. This has, indeed,
been the most remarkable period for its influence on all the true elements of civilization,
which the world has ever known. The advance of general knowledge, the comity of national intercourse,
and the policy and friendship of nations, has certainly never before reached its present state.
China is no longer a sealed nation. British arms have carried the influence of arts and letters,
through Hindostan, Abyssinia, Persia, and the valley of the Euphrates, have been visited and
explored. The deserts of the Holy Land have been trod by learned men of Europe and America.
The mouth of the Niger and the sources of the Nile, are revealed. Even Arabia, the land where
Abraham and his descendants once trod, has sent an embassy of peace, to a government 18,000
miles distant, which has not had a national existence over seventy years. Not only the rulers
of Arabia and America have been thus brought into the bonds of intercourse; but the age has
exchanged the arts, the science and the philosophy of the utmost parts of the earth. Scientific
discovery has reached its highest acme. The sites of many ancient and long unknown, though
not forgotten cities, are recovered. Monuments and ruins have been disinterred in the ancient
seats of human power, in the oriental world, and inscriptions deciphered, which give vitality
to ancient history. Ethnology has arisen to hold up the light of her resplendent lamp, amid
these ruins, to guide the footsteps of letters, science and piety.

