The direction of the royal conscience had been the principal occupation of the two others,
one of whom had even been proposed as confessor to Madame la Dauphine.  One was long ill of
a malady he died of.  He was not properly nourished, and I sent him his dinner every day, for
more than five months, because I had seen his pittance.  I sent him even remedies, for he could
not refrain from admitting to me that he suffered from the treatment he was subjected to.

The third, very old and very infirm, had not a better fate.  At last, being no longer able
to hold out, he asked to be allowed to pay a visit to my Versailles house (after having explained
himself to me), under pretext of fresh air.  He remained there several months, and died at
the noviciate in Paris.  Such is the fate of all the Jesuits, without excepting the most famous,
putting aside a few who having shone at the Court and in the world by their sermons and their
merit, and having made many friends--as Peres Bordaloue, La Rue, Gaillard--have been guaranteed
from the general disgrace, because, often visited by the principal persons of the Court and
the town, policy did not permit them to be treated like the rest, for fear of making so many
considerable people notice what they would not have suffered without disturbance and scandal.

It was, then, in this abandonment and this contempt that Pere Tellier remained at La Fleche,
although he had from the Regent four thousand livres pension.  He had ill-treated everybody.
When he was confessor of the King, not one of his brethren approached him without trembling,
although most of them were the "big-wigs" of the company.  Even the general of the company
was forced to bend beneath the despotism he exercised upon all.  There was not a Jesuit who
did not disapprove the violence of his conduct, or who did not fear it would injure the society.
All hated him, as a minister is hated who is coarse, harsh, inaccessible, egotistical, and
who takes pleasure in showing his power and his disdain.

His exile, and the conduct that drew it upon him, were fresh motives for hatred against him,
unveiling, as they did, a number of secret intrigues he had been concerned in, and which he
had great interest in hiding.  All these things together did not render agreeable to Tellier
his forced retirement at La Fleche.  He found there sharp superiors and equals, instead of
the general terror his presence had formerly caused among the Jesuits.  All now showed nothing
but contempt for him, and took pleasure in making him sensible of it.  This King of the Church,
in part of the State, and in private of his society, became a common Jesuit like the rest,
and under superiors; it may be imagined what a hell this was to a man so impetuous and so accustomed
to a domination without reply, and without bounds, and abused in every fashion.  Thus he did
not endure it long.  Nothing more was heard of him, and he died after having been only six
months at La Fleche.

There was another death, which I may as well mention here, as it occurred about the same time.

On Saturday evening, the 15th of April, 1719, the celebrated and fatal Madame de Maintenon
died at Saint-Cyr.  What a stir this event would have made in Europe, had it happened a few
years earlier.  It was scarcely mentioned in Paris!

I have already said so much respecting this woman, so unfortunately famous, that I will say
but little more now.  Her life at Saint-Cyr was divided between her spiritual duties, the letters
she received, from her religious correspondents, and the answers she gave to them.  She took
the communion twice a-week, ordinarily between seven and eight o'clock in the morning; not,
as Dangeau says in his Memoires, at midnight or every day. She was very rich, having four thousand
livres pension per month from the Regent, besides other emoluments.  She had, too, her estate
at Maintenon, and some other property.  With all this wealth, too, she had not a farthing of
expense at Saint-Cyr.  Everything was provided for herself and servants and their horses, even
wood, coals, and candles.  She had nothing to buy, except dress for herself and for her people.
She kept a steward, a valet, people for the horses and the kitchen, a coach, seven or eight
horses, one or two others for the saddle, besides having the young ladies of Saint-Cyr, chambermaids,
and Mademoiselle d'Aumale to wait upon her.

The fall of the Duc du Maine at the Bed of justice struck the first blow at her.  It is not
too much to presume that she was well informed of the measures and the designs of this darling,
and that this hope had sustained her; but when she saw him arrested she succumbed; continuous
fever seized her, and she died at eighty-three years of age, in the full possession of all
her intellect.

Regret for her loss, which was not even universal in Saint-Cyr, scarcely passed the walls of
that community.  Aubigny, Archbishop of Rouen, her pretended cousin, was the only man I ever
heard of, who was fool enough to die of grief on account of it.  But he was so afflicted by
this loss, that he fell ill, and soon followed her.

CHAPTER XCVII.

Madame la Duchesse de Berry was living as usual, amid the loftiest pride, and the vilest servitude;
amid penitence the most austere at the Carmelite convent of the Faubourg Saint-Germain, and
suppers the most profaned by vile company, filthiness, and impiety; amid the most shameless
debauchery, and the most horrible fear of the devil and death; when lo! she fell ill at the
Luxembourg.

I must disguise nothing more, especially as what I am relating belongs to history; and never
in these memoirs have I introduced details upon gallantry except such as were necessary to
the proper comprehension of important or interesting matters to which they related.  Madame
la Duchesse de Berry would constrain herself in nothing; she was indignant that people would
dare to speak of what she did not take the trouble to hide from them; and nevertheless she
was grieved to death that her conduct was known.

She was in the family way by Rion, but hid--it as much as she could. Madame de Mouchy was their
go-between, although her conduct was as clear as day.  Rion and Mouchy, in fact, were in love
with each other, and had innumerable facilities for indulging their passion.  They laughed
at the Princess, who was their dupe, and from whom they drew in council all they could.  In
one word, they were the masters of her and of her household, and so insolently, that M. le
Duc and Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans, who knew them and hated them, feared them also and temporised
with them. Madame de Saint-Simon, sheltered from all that, extremely loved and respected by
all the household, and respected even by this couple who made themselves so much dreaded and
courted, only saw Madame la Duchesse de Berry during the moments of presentation at the Luxembourg,
whence she returned as soon as all was finished, entirely ignorant of what was passing, though
she might have been perfectly instructed.

The illness of Madame la Duchesse de Berry came on, and this illness, ill prepared for by suppers
washed down by wine and strong liquors, became stormy and dangerous.  Madame de Saint-Simon
could not avoid becoming assiduous in her attendance as soon as the peril appeared, but she
never would yield to the instances of M. le Duc and Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans, who, with
all the household; wished her to sleep in the chamber allotted to her, and which she never
put foot in, not even during the day.  She found Madame la Duchesse de Berry shut up in a little
chamber, which had private entrances--very useful just then, with no one near her but La Mouchy
and Rion, and a few trusty waiting-women.  All in attendance had free entrance to this room.
M. le Duc and Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans were not allowed to enter when they liked; of course
it was the same with the lady of honour, the other ladies, the chief femme de chambre, and
the doctors.  All entered from time to time, but ringing for an instant.  A bad headache or
want of sleep caused them often to be asked to stay away, or, if they entered, to leave directly
afterwards.  They did not press their presence upon the sick woman, knowing only too well the
nature of her malady; but contented themselves by asking after her through Madame de Mouchy,
who opened the door to reply to them, keeping it scarcely ajar: This ridiculous proceeding
passed before the crowd of the Luxembourg, of the Palais Royal, and of many other people who,
for form's sake or for curiosity, came to inquire the news, and became common town-talk.

The danger increasing, Languet, a celebrated cure of Saint-Sulpice, who had always rendered
himself assiduous, spoke of the sacraments to M. le Duc d'Orleans.  The difficulty was how
to enter and propose them to Madame la Duchesse de Berry.  But another and greater difficulty
soon appeared.  It was this: the cure, like a man knowing his duty, refused to administer the
sacrament, or to suffer it to be administered, while Rion or Madame de Mouchy remained in the
chamber, or even in the Luxembourg! He declared this aloud before everybody, expressly in presence
of M. le Duc d'Orleans, who was less shocked than embarrassed.  He took the cure aside, and
for a long time tried to make him give way.  Seeing him inflexible, he proposed reference to
the Cardinal de Noailles.  The cure immediately agreed, and promised to defer to his orders,
Noailles being his bishop, provided he was allowed to explain his reasons.  The affair passed,
and Madame la Duchesse de Berry made confession to a Cordelier, her confessor.  M. le Duc d'Orleans
flattered himself, no doubt, he would find the diocesan more flexible than the cure.  If he
hoped so he deceived himself.

The Cardinal de Noailles arrived; M. le Duc d'Orleans took him aside with the cure, and their
conversation lasted more than half an hour.  As the declaration of the cure had been public,
the Cardinal Archbishop of Paris judged it fitting that his should be so also.  As all three
approached the door of the chamber, filled with company, the Cardinal de Noailles said aloud
to the cure, that he had very worthily done his duty, that he expected nothing less from such
a good, experienced, and enlightened man as he was; that he praised him for what he had demanded
before administering the sacrament to Madame la Duchesse de Berry; that he exhorted him not
to give in, or to suffer himself to be deceived upon so important a thing; and that if he wanted
further authorisation he, as his bishop, diocesan, and superior, prohibited him from administering
the sacraments, or allowing them to be administered, to Madame la Duchesse de Berry while Rion
and Madame de Mouchy were in the chamber, or even in the Luxembourg.

It may be imagined what a stir such inevitable scandal as this made in a room so full of company;
what embarrassment it caused M. le Duc d'Orleans, and what a noise it immediately made everywhere.
Nobody, even the chiefs of the constitution, the mass without, enemies of the Cardinal de Noailles,
the most fashionable bishops, the most distinguished women, the libertines even--not one blamed
the cure or his archbishop: some because they knew the rules of the Church, and did not dare
to impugn them; others, the majority, from horror of the conduct of Madame la Duchesse de Berry,
and hatred drawn upon her by her pride.

Now came the question between the Regent, the Cardinal, and the cure, which should announce
this determination to Madame la Duchesse de Berry, who in no way expected it, and who, having
confessed, expected every moment to see the Holy Sacrament enter, and to take it.  After a
short colloquy urged on by the state of the patient, the Cardinal and the cure withdrew a little,
while M. le Duc d'Orleans slightly opened the door and called Madame de Mouchy.  Then, the
door ajar, she within, he without, he told her what was in debate.  La Mouchy, much astonished,
still more annoyed, rode the high horse, talked of her merit, and of the affront that bigots
wished to cast upon her and Madame la Duchesse de Berry, who would never suffer it or consent
to it, and that she would die--in the state she was--if they had the impudence and the cruelty
to tell it to her.

The conclusion was that La Mouchy undertook to announce to Madame la Duchesse de Berry the
resolution that had been taken respecting the sacraments--what she added of her own may be
imagined.  A negative response did not fail to be quickly delivered to M. le Duc d'Orleans
through the half-opened door.  Coming through such a messenger, it was just the reply he might
have expected.  Immediately after, he repeated it to the Cardinal, and to the cure; the cure,
being supported by his archbishop, contented himself with shrugging his shoulders.  But the
Cardinal said to M. le Duc d'Orleans that Madame de Mouchy, one of the two who ought to be
sent away, was not a fit person to bring Madame la Duchesse to reason; that it was his duty
to carry this message to her, and to exhort her to do her duty as a Christian shortly about
to appear before God; and the Archbishop pressed the Regent to go and say so to her.  It will
be believed, without difficulty, that his eloquence gained nothing.  This Prince feared too
much his daughter, and would have been but a feeble apostle with her.

Reiterated refusals determined the Cardinal to go and speak to Madame la Duchesse de Berry,
accompanied by the cure, and as he wished to set about it at once, M. le Duc d'Orleans, who
did not dare to hinder him, but who feared some sudden and dangerous revolution in his daughter
at the sight and at the discourses of the two pastors, conjured him to wait until preparations
could be made to receive him.  He went, therefore, and held another colloquy through the door
with Madame de Mouchy, the success of which was equal to the other.  Madame la Duchesse de
Berry flew into fury, railed in unruly terms against these hypocritical humbugs, who took advantage
of her state and their calling to dishonour her by an unheard- of scandal, not in the least
sparing her father for his stupidity and feebleness in allowing it.  To have heard her, you
would have thought that the cure and the Cardinal ought to be kicked downstairs.

M. le Duc d'Orleans returned to the ecclesiastics, looking very small, and not knowing what
to do between his daughter and them.  However, he said to them that she was so weak and suffering
that they must put off their visit, persuading them as well as he could.  The attention and
anxiety of the large company which filled the room were extreme: everything was known afterwards,
bit by bit, during the day.

The Cardinal de Noailles remained more than two hours with M. le Duc d'Orleans, round whom
people gathered at last.  The Cardinal, seeing that he could not enter the chamber without
a sort of violence, much opposed to persuasion, thought it indecent and useless to wait any
longer.  In going away, he reiterated his orders to the cure, and begged him to watch so as
not to be deceived respecting the sacraments, lest attempts were made to administer them clandestinely.
He afterwards approached Madame de Saint-Simon, took her aside, related to her what had passed,
and deplored with her a scandal that he had not been able to avoid.  M. le Duc d'Orleans hastened
to announce to his daughter the departure of the Cardinal, at which he himself was much relieved.
But on leaving the chamber he was astonished to find the cure glued against the door, and still
more so to hear he had taken up his post there, and meant to remain, happen what might, because
he did not wish to be deceived respecting the sacraments.  And, indeed, he remained there four
days and four nights, except during short intervals for food and repose that he took at home,
quite close to the Luxembourg, and during which his place was filled by two priests whom he
left there.  At last, the danger being passed, he raised the siege.

Madame la Duchesse de Berry, safely delivered of a daughter, had nothing to do but to re-establish
herself; but she remained firm against the cure and the Cardinal de Noailles, neither of whom
she ever pardoned.  She became more and more bewitched by the two lovers, who laughed at her,
and who were attached to her only for their fortune and their interest.  She remained shut
up without seeing M. and Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans, except for a few moments; no one, commencing
with Madame de Saint-Simon, showed any eagerness to see her, for everybody knew what kept the
door shut.

Madame la Duchesse de Berry, infinitely pained by the manner in which everybody, even the people,
looked upon her malady, thought to gain a little lost ground by throwing open the gardens of
the Luxembourg to the public, after having long since closed them.  People were glad: they
profited by the act; that was all.  She made a vow that she would give herself up to religion,
and dress in white--that is, devote herself to the service of the Virgin--for six months. 
This vow made people laugh a little.

Her illness had begun on the 26th of March, 1719, and Easter-day fell on the 9th of April.
She was then quite well, but would not see a soul.  A new cause of annoyance had arisen to
trouble her.  Rion, who saw himself so successful as the lover of Madame la Duchesse de Berry,
wished to improve his position by becoming her husband.  He was encouraged in this desire by
his uncle, M. de Lauzun, who had also advised him to treat her with the rigour, harshness--nay,
brutality, which I have already described.  The maxim of M. de Lauzun was, that the Bourbons
must be ill- used and treated with a high hand in order to maintain empire over them. Madame
de Mouchy was as strongly in favour of this marriage as Rion.  She knew she was sure of her
lover, and that when he became the husband of Madame la Duchesse de Berry, all the doors which
shut intimacy would be thrown down.  A secret marriage accordingly took place.

This marriage gave rise to violent quarrels, and much weeping.  In order to deliver herself
from these annoyances, and at the same time steer clear of Easter, the Duchess resolved to
go away to Meudon on Easter Monday.  It was in vain that the danger was represented to her,
of the air, of the movement of the coach, and of the change of place at the end of a fortnight.
Nothing could make her endure Paris any longer.  She set out, therefore, followed by Rion and
the majority of her ladies and her household.

M. le Duc d'Orleans informed me then of the fixed design of Madame la Duchesse de Berry to
declare the secret marriage she had just made with Rion.  Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans was
at Montmartre for a few days, and we were walking in the little garden of her apartments. 
The marriage did not surprise me much, knowing the strength of her passion, her fear of the
devil, and the scandal which had just happened.  But I was astonished, to the last degree,
at this furious desire to declare the marriage, in a person so superbly proud.

M. le Duc d'Orleans dilated upon his troubles, his anger, that of Madame (who wished to proceed
to the most violent extremities), and the great resolve of Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans.  Fortunately
the majority of the officers destined to serve against Spain, (war with that country had just
been declared) were leaving every day, and Rion had remained solely on account of the illness
of Madame la Duchesse de Berry, M. le Duc d'Orleans thought the shortest plan would be to encourage
hope by delay, in forcing Rion to depart, flattering himself that the declaration would be
put off much more easily in his absence than in his presence.  I strongly approved this idea,
and on the morrow, Rion received at Meudon a curt and positive order to depart at once and
join his regiment in the army of the Duc de Berwick.  Madame la Duchesse de Berry was all the
more outraged, because she knew the cause of this order, and consequently felt her inability
to hinder its execution.  Rion on his side did not dare to disobey it.  He set out, therefore;
and M. le Duc d'Orleans, who had not yet been to Meudon, remained several days without going there.

Father and daughter feared each other, and this departure had not put them on better terms.
She had told him, and repeated it, that she was a rich widow, mistress of her own actions,
independent of him; had flown into a fury, and terribly abused M. le Duc d'Orleans when he
tried to remonstrate with her.  He had received much rough handling from her at the Luxembourg
when she was better; it was the same at Meudon during the few visits he paid her there.  She
wished to declare her marriage; and all the art, intellect, gentleness, anger, menace, prayers,
and interest of M. le Duc d'Orleans barely sufficed to make her consent to a brief delay.

If Madame had been listened to, the affair would have been finished before the journey to Meudon;
for M. le Duc d'Orleans would have thrown Rion out of the windows of the Luxembourg!

The premature journey to Meudon, and quarrels so warm, were not calculated to re-establish
a person just returned from the gates of death.  The extreme desire she had to hide her state
from the public, and to conceal the terms on which she was with her father ( for the rarity
of his visits to her began to be remarked), induced her to give a supper to him on the terrace
of Meudon about eight o'clock one evening.  In vain the danger was represented to her of the
cool evening air so soon after an illness such as she had just suffered from, and which had
left her health still tottering.  It was specially on this account that she stuck more obstinately
to her supper on the terrace, thinking that it would take away all suspicion she had been confined,
and induce the belief that she was on the same terms as ever with M. le Duc d'Orleans, though
the uncommon rarity of his visits to her had been remarked.

This supper in the open air did not succeed.  The same night she was taken ill.  She was attacked
by accidents, caused by the state in which she still was, and by an irregular fever, that the
opposition she met with respecting the declaration of her marriage did not contribute to diminish.
She grew disgusted with Meudon, like people ill in body and mind, who in their grief attribute
everything to the air and the place. She was annoyed at the few visits she received from M.
le Duc and Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans,-her pride, however, suffering more than her tenderness.

In despite of all reason, nothing could hinder her from changing her abode.  She was transferred
from Meudon to the Muette, wrapped up in sheets, and in a large coach, on Sunday, the 14th
of May, 1719.  Arrived so near Paris, she hoped M. le Duc and Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans
would come and see her more frequently, if only for form's sake.

This journey was painful by the sufferings it caused her, added to those she already had, which
no remedies could appease, except for short intervals, and which became very violent.  Her
illness augmented; but hopes and fears sustained her until the commencement of July.  During
all this time her desire to declare her marriage weakened, and M. le Duc and Madame la Duchesse
d'Orleans, as well as Madame, who passed the summer at Saint-Cloud, came more frequently to
see her.  The month of July became more menacing because of the augmentation of pain and fever.
These ills increased so much, in fact, that, by the 14th of July, fears for her life began
to be felt.

The night of the 14th was so stormy, that M. le Duc d'Orleans was sent to at the Palais Royal,
and awakened.  At the same time Madame de Pons wrote to Madame de Saint-Simon, pressing her
to come and establish herself at La Muette.  Madame de Saint-Simon, although she made a point
of scarcely ever sleeping under the same roof as Madame la Duchesse de Berry (for reasons which
need no further explanation than those already given), complied at once with this request,
and took up her quarters from this time at La Muette.

Upon arriving, she found the danger great.  Madame la Duchesse de Berry had been bled in the
arm and in the foot on the 10th, and her confessor had been sent for.  But the malady still
went on increasing.  As the pain which had so long afflicted her could not induce her to follow
a regimen necessary for her condition, or to think of a future state, relations and doctors
were at last obliged to speak a language to her, not used towards princesses, except at the
most urgent extremity.  This, at last, had its effect.  She submitted to the medical treatment
prescribed for her, and received the sacrament with open doors, speaking to those present upon
her life and upon her state, but like a queen in both instances.  After this sight was over,
alone with her familiars, she applauded herself for the firmness she had displayed, asked them
if she had not spoken well, and if she was not dying with greatness and courage.

A day or two after, she wished to receive Our Lord once more.  She received, accordingly, and
as it appeared, with much piety, quite differently from the first time.

At the extremity to which she had arrived, the doctors knew not what to do; everybody was tried.
An elixir was spoken of, discovered by a certain Garus, which made much stir just then, and
the secret of which the King has since bought.  Garus was sent for and soon arrived.  He found
Madame la Duchesse de Berry so ill that he would answer for nothing.  His remedy was given,
and succeeded beyond all hopes.  Nothing remained but to continue it.

The audacity of this was as complete as its villainy, for M. le Duc and Madame la Duchesse
d'Orleans were close at hand in the salon.  From this moment to that in which the patient fell
into a state worse than that from which the elixir had drawn her, there was scarcely an interval.
Garus was awaked and called.  Seeing this disorder, he cried that a purgative had been given,
and whatever it might be, it was poison in the state to which the princess was now reduced.
He wished to depart, he was detained, he was taken to Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans.  Then followed
a great uproar, cries from Garus, impudence and unequalled hardihood of Chirac, in defending
what he had done.

He could not deny it, for the two nurses had been questioned, and had told all.  Madame la
Duchesse de Berry drew near her end during this debate, and neither Chirac nor Garus could
prevent it.  She lasted, however, the rest of the day, and did not die until about midnight.
Chirac, seeing the death-agony advance, traversed the chamber, made an insulting reverence
at the foot of the bed, which was open, and wished her "a pleasant journey" (in equivalent
terms), and thereupon went off to Paris.  The marvel is that nothing came of this, and that
he remained the doctor of M. le Duc d'Orleans as before!

While the end was yet approaching, Madame de Saint-Simon, seeing that there was no one to bear
M. le Duc d'Orleans company, sent for me to stand by him in these sad moments.  It appeared
to me that my arrival pleased him, and that I was not altogether useless to him in relieving
his grief.  The rest of the day was passed in entering for a moment at a time into the sick-chamber.
In the evening I was nearly always alone with him.

He wished that I should charge myself with all the funeral arrangements, and in case Madame
la Duchesse de Berry, when opened, should be found to be enceinte, to see that the secret was
kept.  I proposed that the funeral should be of the simplest, without show or ceremonial. 
I explained my reasons, he thanked me, and left all the orders in my hands. Getting rid of
these gloomy matters as quickly as possible, I walked with him from time to time in the reception
rooms, and in the garden, keeping him from the chamber of the dying as much as possible.

The night was well advanced, and Madame la Duchesse de Berry grew worse and worse, and without
consciousness since Chirac had poisoned her.  M. le Duc d'Orleans returned into the chamber,
approached the head of the bed--all the curtains being pulled back; I allowed him to remain
there but a few moments, and hurried him into the cabinet, which was deserted just then.  The
windows were open, he leaned upon the iron balustrade, and his tears increased so much that
I feared lest they should suffocate him.  When this attack had a little subsided, he began
to talk of the misfortunes of this world, and of the short duration of its most agreeable pleasures.
I urged the occasion to say to him everything God gave me the power to say, with all the gentleness,
emotion, and tenderness, I could command.  Not only he received well what I said to him, but
he replied to it and prolonged the conversation.

After we had been there more than an hour, Madame de Saint-Simon gently warned me that it was
time to try and lead M. le Duc d'Orleans away, especially as there was no exit from the cabinet,
except through the sick-chamber.  His coach, that Madame de Saint-Simon had sent for, was ready.
It was without difficulty that I succeeded in gently moving away M. le Duc d'Orleans, plunged
as he was in the most bitter grief.  I made him traverse the chamber at once, and supplicated
him to return to Paris. At last he consented.  He wished me to remain and give orders, and
begged, with much positiveness, Madame de Saint-Simon to be present when seals were put upon
the effects, after which I led him to his coach, and he went away.  I immediately repeated
to Madame de Saint-Simon the orders he had given me respecting the opening of the body, in
order that she might have them executed, and I hindered her from remaining in the chamber,
where there was nothing now but horror to be seen.

At last, about midnight, on the 21st of July, 1819, Madame la Duchesse de Berry died, ten days
after Chirac had consummated his crime.  M. le Duc d'Orleans was the only person touched. 
Some people grieved; but not one of them who had enough to live upon appeared ever to regret
her loss. Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans felt her deliverance, but paid every attention to decorum.
Madame constrained herself but little.  However affected M. le Duc d'Orleans might be, consolation
soon came.  The yoke to which he had submitted himself, and which he afterwards found heavy,
was severed.  Above all, he was free from all annoyance on the score of Rion's marriage, and
its results, annoyance that would have been all the greater, inasmuch as at the opening of
the poor princess she was found to be again enceinte; it was also found that her brain was
deranged.  These circumstances were for the time carefully hidden.  It may be imagined what
a state Rion fell into in learning at the army the death of Madame la Duchesse de Berry.  All
his romantic notions of ambition being overturned, he was more than once on the point of killing
himself, and for a long time was always kept in sight by his friends.  He sold out at the end
of the campaign.  As he had been gentle and polite to his friends, they did not desert him.
But he ever afterwards remained in obscurity.

On account of this death the theatres were closed for eight days.

On Saturday, the 22nd of July, the heart of Madame la Duchesse de Berry was taken to the Val-de-Grace.

On Sunday, the 23rd of July, her body was carried in an eight-horse coach to Saint-Denis. 
There was very little display; only about forty torches were carried by pages and guards.

The funeral service was performed at Saint-Denis in the early part of September.  There was
no funeral oration.

Madame de Saint-Simon had been forced, as I have shown, to accept the post of lady of honour
to Madame la Duchesse de Berry, and had never been able to quit it.  She had been treated with
all sorts of consideration, had been allowed every liberty, but this did not console her for
the post she occupied; so that she felt all the pleasure, not to say the satisfaction, of a
deliverance she did not expect, from a princess twenty-four years of age.  But the extreme
fatigue of the last days of the illness, and of those which followed death, caused her a malignant
fever, which left her at death's portal during six weeks in a house at Passy.  She was two
months recovering herself.

This accident, which almost turned my head, sequestered me from anything for two months, during
which I never left the house, scarcely left the sick-chamber, attended to nothing, and saw
only a few relatives or indispensable friends.

When my wife began to be re-established, I asked M. le Duc d'Orleans for a lodging at the new
chateau at Meudon.  He lent me the whole chateau; completely furnished.  We passed there the
rest of this summer, and several other summers afterwards.  It is a charming place for rides
or drives.  We counted upon seeing only our friends there, but the proximity to Paris overwhelmed
us with people, so that all the new chateau was sometimes completely filled, without reckoning
the people of passage.

I have little need to say anything more of Madame la Duchesse de Berry. These pages have already
painted her.  She was a strange mixture of pride and shamelessness.  Drunkenness, filthy conversation,
debauchery of the vilest kind, and impiety, were her diversions, varied, as has been seen,
by occasional religious fits.  Her indecency in everything, language, acts, behaviour, passed
all bounds; and yet her pride was so sublime that she could not endure that people should dare
to speak of her amid her depravity, so universal and so public; she had the hardihood to declare
that nobody had the right to speak of persons of her rank, or blame their most notorious actions!

Yet she had by nature a superior intellect, and, when she wished, could be agreeable and amiable.
Her face was commanding, though somewhat spoiled at last by fat.  She had much eloquence, speaking
with an ease and precision that charmed and overpowered.  What might she not have become, with
the talents she possessed!  But her pride, her violent temper, her irreligion, and her falsehood,
spoiled all, and made her what we have seen her.

CHAPTER XCIX

Law had established his Mississippi Company, and now began to do marvels with it.  A sort of
language had been invented, to talk of this scheme, language which, however, I shall no more
undertake to explain than the other finance operations.  Everybody was mad upon Mississippi
Stock. Immense fortunes were made, almost in a breath; Law, besieged in his house by eager
applicants, saw people force open his door, enter by the windows from the garden, drop into
his cabinet down the chimney!  People talked only of millions.

