WAVERLEY

BY SIR WALTER SCOTT

VOLUME II

WAVERLEY

OR 'TIS SIXTY YEARS SINCE

CHAPTER XXXVI

AN INCIDENT

The dinner hour of Scotland Sixty Years Since was two o'clock. It was therefore about four
o'clock of a delightful autumn afternoon that Mr. Gilfillan commenced his march, in hopes,
although Stirling was eighteen miles distant, he might be able, by becoming a borrower of the
night for an hour or two, to reach it that evening. He therefore put forth his strength, and
marched stoutly along at the head of his followers, eyeing our hero from time to time, as if
he longed to enter into controversy with him. At length, unable to resist the temptation, he
slackened his pace till he was alongside of his prisoner's horse, and after marching a few
steps in silence abreast of him, he suddenly asked--'Can ye say wha the carle was wi' the black
coat and the mousted head, that was wi' the Laird of Cairnvreckan?'

'A Presbyterian clergyman,' answered Waverley.

'Presbyterian!' answered Gilfillan contemptuously; 'a wretched Erastian, or rather an obscure
Prelatist, a favourer of the black indulgence, ane of thae dumb dogs that canna bark; they
tell ower a clash o' terror and a clatter o' comfort in their sermons, without ony sense, or
savour, or life. Ye've been fed in siccan a fauld, belike?'

'No; I am of the Church of England,' said Waverley.

'And they're just neighbour-like,' replied the Covenanter; 'and nae wonder they gree sae weel.
Wha wad hae thought the goodly structure of the Kirk of Scotland, built up by our fathers in
1642, wad hae been defaced by carnal ends and the corruptions of the time;--ay, wha wad hae
thought the carved work of the sanctuary would hae been sae soon cut down!'

To this lamentation, which one or two of the assistants chorussed with a deep groan, our hero
thought it unnecessary to make any reply. Whereupon Mr. Gilfillan, resolving that he should
be a hearer at least, if not a disputant, proceeded in his Jeremiade.

'And now is it wonderful, when, for lack of exercise anent the call to the service of the altar
and the duty of the day, ministers fall into sinful compliances with patronage, and indemnities,
and oaths, and bonds, and other corruptions,--is it wonderful, I say, that you, sir, and other
sic-like unhappy persons, should labour to build up your auld Babel of iniquity, as in the
bluidy persecuting saint-killing times? I trow, gin ye werena blinded wi' the graces and favours,
and services and enjoyments, and employments and inheritances, of this wicked world, I could
prove to you, by the Scripture, in what a filthy rag ye put your trust; and that your surplices,
and your copes and vestments, are but cast-off garments of the muckle harlot that sitteth upon
seven hills and drinketh of the cup of abomination. But, I trow, ye are deaf as adders upon
that side of the head; ay, ye are deceived with her enchantments, and ye traffic with her merchandise,
and ye are drunk with the cup of her fornication!'

How much longer this military theologist might have continued his invective, in which he spared
nobody but the scattered remnant of HILL-FOLK, as he called them, is absolutely uncertain.
His matter was copious, his voice powerful, and his memory strong; so that there was little
chance of his ending his exhortation till the party had reached Stirling, had not his attention
been attracted by a pedlar who had joined the march from a cross-road, and who sighed or groaned
with great regularity at all fitting pauses of his homily.

'And what may ye be, friend?' said the Gifted Gilfillan.

'A puir pedlar, that's bound for Stirling, and craves the protection of your honour's party
in these kittle times. Ah' your honour has a notable faculty in searching and explaining the
secret,--ay, the secret and obscure and incomprehensible causes of the backslidings of the
land; ay, your honour touches the root o' the matter.'

'Friend,' said Gilfillan, with a more complacent voice than he had hitherto used, 'honour not
me. I do not go out to park-dikes and to steadings and to market-towns to have herds and cottars
and burghers pull off their bonnets to me as they do to Major Melville o' Cairnvreckan, and
ca' me laird or captain or honour. No; my sma' means, whilk are not aboon twenty thousand merk,
have had the blessing of increase, but the pride of my heart has not increased with them; nor
do I delight to be called captain, though I have the subscribed commission of that gospel-searching
nobleman, the Earl of Glencairn, fa whilk I am so designated. While I live I am and will be
called Habakkuk Gilfillan, who will stand up for the standards of doctrine agreed on by the
ance famous Kirk of Scotland, before she trafficked with the accursed Achan, while he has a
plack in his purse or a drap o' bluid in his body.'

'Ah,' said the pedlar, 'I have seen your land about Mauchlin. A fertile spot! your lines have
fallen in pleasant places! And siccan a breed o' cattle is not in ony laird's land in Scotland.'

'Ye say right,--ye say right, friend' retorted Gilfillan eagerly, for he was not inaccessible
to flattery upon this subject,--'ye say right; they are the real Lancashire, and there's no
the like o' them even at the mains of Kilmaurs'; and he then entered into a discussion of their
excellences, to which our readers will probably be as indifferent as our hero. After this excursion
the leader returned to his theological discussions, while the pedlar, less profound upon those
mystic points, contented himself with groaning and expressing his edification at suitable intervals.

'What a blessing it would be to the puir blinded popish nations among whom I hae sojourned,
to have siccan a light to their paths! I hae been as far as Muscovia in my sma' trading way,
as a travelling merchant, and I hae been through France, and the Low Countries, and a' Poland,
and maist feck o' Germany, and O! it would grieve your honour's soul to see the murmuring and
the singing and massing that's in the kirk, and the piping that's in the quire, and the heathenish
dancing and dicing upon the Sabbath!'

This set Gilfillan off upon the Book of Sports and the Covenant, and the Engagers, and the
Protesters, and the Whiggamore's Raid, and the Assembly of Divines at Westminster, and the
Longer and Shorter Catechism, and the Excommunication at Torwood, and the slaughter of Archbishop
Sharp. This last topic, again, led him into the lawfulness of defensive arms, on which subject
he uttered much more sense than could have been expected from some other parts of his harangue,
and attracted even Waverley's attention, who had hitherto been lost in his own sad reflections.
Mr. Gilfillan then considered the lawfulness of a private man's standing forth as the avenger
of public oppression, and as he was labouring with great earnestness the cause of Mas James
Mitchell, who fired at the Archbishop of Saint Andrews some years before the prelate's assassination
on Magus Muir, an incident occurred which interrupted his harangue.

The rays of the sun were lingering on the very verge of the horizon as the party ascended a
hollow and somewhat steep path which led to the summit of a rising ground. The country was
uninclosed, being part of a very extensive heath or common; but it was far from level, exhibiting
in many places hollows filled with furze and broom; in others, little dingles of stunted brushwood.
A thicket of the latter description crowned the hill up which the party ascended. The foremost
of the band, being the stoutest and most active, had pushed on, and, having surmounted the
ascent, were out of ken for the present. Gilfillan, with the pedlar and the small party who
were Waverley's more immediate guard, were near the top of the ascent, and the remainder straggled
after them at a considerable interval.

Such was the situation of matters when the pedlar, missing, as he said, a little doggie which
belonged to him, began to halt and whistle for the animal. This signal, repeated more than
once, gave offence to the rigour of his companion, the rather because it appeared to indicate
inattention to the treasures of theological and controversial knowledge which were pouring
out for his edification. He therefore signified gruffly that he could not waste his time in
waiting for an useless cur. Gilfillan, unappalled at this undesirable apparition, cried out
manfully, 'The sword of the Lord and of Gideon!' and, drawing his broadsword, would probably
have done as much credit to the good old cause as any of its doughty champions at Drumclog,
when, behold! the pedlar, snatching a musket from the person who was next him bestowed the
butt of it with such emphasis on the head of his late instructor in the Cameronian creed that
he was forthwith levelled to the ground. In the confusion which ensued the horse which bore
our hero was shot by one of Gilfillan's party, as he discharged his firelock at random. Waverley
fell with, and indeed under, the animal, and sustained some severe contusions. But he was almost
instantly extricated from the fallen steed by two Highlanders, who, each seizing him by the
arm, hurried him away from the scuffle and from the highroad. They ran with great speed, half
supporting and half dragging our hero, who could, however, distinguish a few dropping shots
fired about the spot which he had left. This, as he afterwards learned, proceeded from Gilfillan's
party, who had now assembled, the stragglers in front and rear having joined the others. At
their approach the Highlanders drew off, but not before they had rifled Gilfillan and two of
his people, who remained on the spot grievously wounded. A few shots were exchanged betwixt
them and the Westlanders; but the latter, now without a commander, and apprehensive of a second
ambush, did not make any serious effort to recover their prisoner, judging it more wise to
proceed on their journey to Stirling, carrying with them their wounded captain and comrades.

CHAPTER XXXVII

WAVERLEY IS STILL IN DISTRESS

The velocity, and indeed violence, with which Waverley was hurried along nearly deprived him
of sensation; for the injury he had received from his fall prevented him from aiding himself
so effectually as he might otherwise have done. When this was observed by his conductors, they
called to their aid two or three others of the party, and, swathing our hero's body in one
of their plaids, divided his weight by that means among them, and transported him at the same
rapid rate as before, without any exertion of his own. They spoke little, and that in Gaelic;
and did not slacken their pace till they had run nearly two miles, when they abated their extreme
rapidity, but continued still to walk very fast, relieving each other occasionally.

Our hero now endeavoured to address them, but was only answered with 'Cha n'eil Beurl agam'
i.e. 'I have no English,' being, as Waverley well knew, the constant reply of a Highlander
when he either does not understand or does not choose to reply to an Englishman or Lowlander.
He then mentioned the name of Vich lan Vohr, concluding that he was indebted to his friendship
for his rescue from the clutches of Gifted Gilfillan, but neither did this produce any mark
of recognition from his escort.

The twilight had given place to moonshine when the party halted upon the brink of a precipitous
glen, which, as partly enlightened by the moonbeams, seemed full of trees and tangled brushwood.
Two of the Highlanders dived into it by a small foot-path, as if to explore its recesses, and
one of them returning in a few minutes, said something to his companions, who instantly raised
their burden and bore him, with great attention and care, down the narrow and abrupt descent.
Notwithstanding their precautions, however, Waverley's person came more than once into contact,
rudely enough, with the projecting stumps and branches which overhung the pathway.

At the bottom of the descent, and, as it seemed, by the side of a brook (for Waverley heard
the rushing of a considerable body of water, although its stream was invisible in the darkness),
the party again stopped before a small and rudely-constructed hovel. The door was open, and
the inside of the premises appeared as uncomfortable and rude as its situation and exterior
foreboded. There was no appearance of a floor of any kind; the roof seemed rent in several
places; the walls were composed of loose stones and turf, and the thatch of branches of trees.
The fire was in the centre, and filled the whole wigwam with smoke, which escaped as much through
the door as by means of a circular aperture in the roof. An old Highland sibyl, the only inhabitant
of this forlorn mansion, appeared busy in the preparation of some food. By the light which
the fire afforded Waverley could discover that his attendants were not of the clan of Ivor,
for Fergus was particularly strict in requiring from his followers that they should wear the
tartan striped in the mode peculiar to their race; a mark of distinction anciently general
through the Highlands, and still maintained by those Chiefs who were proud of their lineage
or jealous of their separate and exclusive authority.

Edward had lived at Glennaquoich long enough to be aware of a distinction which he had repeatedly
heard noticed, and now satisfied that he had no interest with, his attendants, he glanced a
disconsolate eye around the interior of the cabin. The only furniture, excepting a washing-tub
and a wooden press, called in Scotland an ambry, sorely decayed, was a large wooden bed, planked,
as is usual, all around, and opening by a sliding panel. In this recess the Highlanders deposited
Waverley, after he had by signs declined any refreshment. His slumbers were broken and unrefreshing;
strange visions passed before his eyes, and it required constant and reiterated efforts of
mind to dispel them. Shivering, violent headache, and shooting pains in his limbs succeeded
these symptoms; and in the morning it was evident to his Highland attendants or guard, for
he knew not in which light to consider them, that Waverley was quite unfit to travel.

After a long consultation among themselves, six of the party left the hut with their arms,
leaving behind an old and a young man. The former addressed Waverley, and bathed the contusions,
which swelling and livid colour now made conspicuous. His own portmanteau, which the Highlanders
had not failed to bring off, supplied him with linen, and to his great surprise was, with all
its undiminished contents, freely resigned to his use. The bedding of his couch seemed clean
and comfortable, and his aged attendant closed the door of the bed, for it had no curtain,
after a few words of Gaelic, from which Waverley gathered that he exhorted him to repose. So
behold our hero for a second time the patient of a Highland Esculapius, but in a situation
much more uncomfortable than when he was the guest of the worthy Tomanrait.

The symptomatic fever which accompanied the injuries he had sustained did not abate till the
third day, when it gave way to the care of his attendants and the strength of his constitution,
and he could now raise himself in his bed, though not without pain. He observed, however, that
there was a great disinclination on the part of the old woman who acted as his nurse, as well
as on that of the elderly Highlander, to permit the door of the bed to be left open, so that
he might amuse himself with observing their motions; and at length, after Waverley had repeatedly
drawn open and they had as frequently shut the hatchway of his cage, the old gentleman put
an end to the contest by securing it on the outside with a nail so effectually that the door
could not be drawn till this exterior impediment was removed.

While musing upon the cause of this contradictory spirit in persons whose conduct intimated
no purpose of plunder, and who, in all other points, appeared to consult his welfare and his
wishes, it occurred to our hero that, during the worst crisis of his illness, a female figure,
younger than his old Highland nurse, had appeared to flit around his couch. Of this, indeed,
he had but a very indistinct recollection, but his suspicions were confirmed when, attentively
listening, he often heard, in the course of the day, the voice of another female conversing
in whispers with his attendant. Who could it be? And why should she apparently desire concealment?
Fancy immediately aroused herself and turned to Flora Mac-Ivor. But after a short conflict
between his eager desire to believe she was in his neighbourhood, guarding, like an angel of
mercy, the couch of his sickness, Waverley was compelled to conclude that his conjecture was
altogether improbable; since, to suppose she had left her comparatively safe situation at Glennaquoich
to descend into the Low Country, now the seat of civil war, and to inhabit such a lurking-place
as this, was a thing hardly to be imagined. Yet his heart bounded as he sometimes could distinctly
hear the trip of a light female step glide to or from the door of the hut, or the suppressed
sounds of a female voice, of softness and delicacy, hold dialogue with the hoarse inward croak
of old Janet, for so he understood his antiquated attendant was denominated.

Having nothing else to amuse his solitude, he employed himself in contriving some plan to gratify
his curiosity, in despite of the sedulous caution of Janet and the old Highland janizary, for
he had never seen the young fellow since the first morning. At length, upon accurate examination,
the infirm state of his wooden prison-house appeared to supply the means of gratifying his
curiosity, for out of a spot which was somewhat decayed he was able to extract a nail. Through
this minute aperture he could perceive a female form, wrapped in a plaid, in the act of conversing
with Janet. But, since the days of our grandmother Eve, the gratification of inordinate curiosity
has generally borne its penalty in disappointment. The form was not that of Flora, nor was
the face visible; and, to crown his vexation, while he laboured with the nail to enlarge the
hole, that he might obtain a more complete view, a slight noise betrayed his purpose, and the
object of his curiosity instantly disappeared, nor, so far as he could observe, did she again
revisit the cottage.

All precautions to blockade his view were from that time abandoned, and he was not only permitted
but assisted to rise, and quit what had been, in a literal sense, his couch of confinement.
But he was not allowed to leave the hut; for the young Highlander had now rejoined his senior,
and one or other was constantly on the watch. Whenever Waverley approached the cottage dooi
the sentinel upon duty civilly, but resolutely, placed himself against it and opposed his exit,
accompanying his action with signs which seemed to imply there was danger in the attempt and
an enemy in the neighbourhood. Old Janet appeared anxious and upon the watch; and Waverley,
who had not yet recovered strength enough to attempt to take his departure in spite of the
opposition of his hosts, was under the necessity of remaining patient His fare was, in every
point of view, better than he could have conceived, for poultry, and even wine, were no strangers
to his table. The Highlanders never presumed to eat with him, and, unless in the circumstance
of watching him, treated him with great respect. His sole amusement was gazing from the window,
or rather the shapeless aperture which was meant to answer the purpose of a window, upon a
large and rough brook, which raged and foamed through a rocky channel, closely canopied with
trees and bushes, about ten feet beneath the site of his house of captivity.

Upon the sixth day of his confinement Waverley found himself so well that he began to meditate
his escape from this dull and miserable prison-house, thinking any risk which he might incur
in the attempt preferable to the stupefying and intolerable uniformity of Janet's retirement.
The question indeed occurred, whither he was to direct his course when again at his own disposal.
Two schemes seemed practicable, yet both attended with danger and difficulty. One was to go
back to Glennaquoich and join Fergus Mac-Ivor, by whom he was sure to be kindly received; and
in the present state of his mind, the rigour with which he had been treated fully absolved
him, in his own eyes, from his allegiance to the existing government. The other project was
to endeavour to attain a Scottish seaport, and thence to take shipping for England. His mind
wavered between these plans, and probably, if he had effected his escape in the manner he proposed,
he would have been finally determined by the comparative facility by which either might have
been executed. But his fortune had settled that he was not to be left to his option.

Upon the evening of the seventh day the door of the hut suddenly opened, and two Highlanders
entered, whom Waverley recognised as having been a part of his original escort to this cottage.
They conversed for a short time with the old man and his companion, and then made Waverley
understand, by very significant signs, that he was to prepare to accompany them. This was a
joyful communication. What had already passed during his confinement made it evident that no
personal injury was designed to him; and his romantic spirit, having recovered during his repose
much of that elasticity which anxiety, resentment, disappointment, and the mixture of unpleasant
feelings excited by his late adventures had for a time subjugated, was now wearied with inaction.
His passion for the wonderful, although it is the nature of such dispositions to be excited
by that degree of danger which merely gives dignity to the feeling of the individual exposed
to it, had sunk under the extraordinary and apparently insurmountable evils by which he appeared
environed at Cairnvreckan. In fact, this compound of intense curiosity and exalted imagination
forms a peculiar species of courage, which somewhat resembles the light usually carried by
a miner--sufficiently competent, indeed, to afford him guidance and comfort during the ordinary
perils of his labour, but certain to be extinguished should he encounter the more formidable
hazard of earth damps or pestiferous vapours. It was now, however, once more rekindled, and
with a throbbing mixture of hope, awe, and anxiety, Waverley watched the group before him,
as those who were just arrived snatched a hasty meal, and the others assumed their arms and
made brief preparations for their departure.

As he sat in the smoky hut, at some distance from the fire, around which the others were crowded,
he felt a gentle pressure upon his arm. He looked round; it was Alice, the daughter of Donald
Bean Lean. She showed him a packet of papers in such a manner that the motion was remarked
by no one else, put her finger for a second to her lips, and passed on, as if to assist old
Janet in packing Waverley's clothes in his portmanteau. It was obviously her wish that he should
not seem to recognise her, yet she repeatedly looked back at him, as an opportunity occurred
of doing so unobserved, and when she saw that he remarked what she did, she folded the packet
with great address and speed in one of his shirts, which she deposited in the portmanteau.

Here then was fresh food for conjecture. Was Alice his unknown warden, and was this maiden
of the cavern the tutelar genius that watched his bed during his sickness? Was he in the hands
of her father? and if so, what was his purpose? Spoil, his usual object, seemed in this case
neglected; for not only Waverley's property was restored, but his purse, which might have tempted
this professional plunderer, had been all along suffered to remain in his possession. All this
perhaps the packet might explain; but it was plain from Alice's manner that she desired he
should consult it in secret. Nor did she again seek his eye after she had satisfied herself
that her manoeuvre was observed and understood. On the contrary, she shortly afterwards left
the hut, and it was only as she tript out from the door, that, favoured by the obscurity, she
gave Waverley a parting smile and nod of significance ere she vanished in the dark glen.

The young Highlander was repeatedly despatched by his comrades as if to collect intelligence.
At length, when he had returned for the third or fourth time, the whole party arose and made
signs to our hero to accompany them. Before his departure, however, he shook hands with old
Janet, who had been so sedulous in his behalf, and added substantial marks of his gratitude
for her attendance.

'God bless you! God prosper you, Captain Waverley!' said Janet, in good Lowland Scotch, though
he had never hithero heard her utter a syllable, save in Gaelic. But the impatience of his
attendants prohibited his asking any explanation.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

A NOCTURNAL ADVENTURE

There was a moment's pause when the whole party had got out of the hut; and the Highlander
who assumed the command, and who, in Waverley's awakened recollection, seemed to be the same
tall figure who had acted as Donald Bean Lean's lieutenant, by whispers and signs imposed the
strictest silence. He delivered to Edward a sword and steel pistol, and, pointing up the track,
laid his hand on the hilt of his own claymore, as if to make him sensible they might have occasion
to use force to make good their passage. He then placed himself at the head of the party, who
moved up the pathway in single or Indian file, Waverley being placed nearest to their leader.
He moved with great precaution, as if to avoid giving any alarm, and halted as soon as he came
to the verge of the ascent. Waverley was soon sensible of the reason, for he heard at no great
distance an English sentinel call out 'All's well.' The heavy sound sunk on the night-wind
down the woody glen, and was answered by the echoes of its banks. A second, third, and fourth
time the signal was repeated fainter and fainter, as if at a greater and greater distance.
It was obvious that a party of soldiers were near, and upon their guard, though not sufficiently
so to detect men skilful in every art of predatory warfare, like those with whom he now watched
their ineffectual precautions.

When these sounds had died upon the silence of the night, the Highlanders began their march
swiftly, yet with the most cautious silence. Waverley had little time, or indeed disposition,
for observation, and could only discern that they passed at some distance from a large building,
in the windows of which a light or two yet seemed to twinkle. A little farther on the leading
Highlander snuffed the wind like a setting spaniel, and then made a signal to his party again
to halt. He stooped down upon all fours, wrapped up in his plaid, so as to be scarce distinguishable
from the heathy ground on which he moved, and advanced in this posture to reconnoitre. In a
short time he returned, and dismissed his attendants excepting one; and, intimating to Waverley
that he must imitate his cautious mode of proceeding, all three crept forward on hands and knees.

After proceeding a greater way in this inconvenient manner than was at all comfortable to his
knees and shins, Waverley perceived the smell of smoke, which probably had been much sooner
distinguished by the more acute nasal organs of his guide. It proceeded from the corner of
a low and ruinous sheep-fold, the walls of which were made of loose stones, as is usual in
Scotland. Close by this low wall the Highlander guided Waverley, and, in order probably to
make him sensible of his danger, or perhaps to obtain the full credit of his own dexterity,
he intimated to him, by sign and example, that he might raise his head so as to peep into the
sheep-fold. Waverley did so, and beheld an outpost of four or five soldiers lying by their
watch-fire. They were all asleep except the sentinel, who paced backwards and forwards with
his firelock on his shoulder, which glanced red in the light of the fire as he crossed and
re-crossed before it in his short walk, casting his eye frequently to that part of the heavens
from which the moon, hitherto obscured by mist, seemed now about to make her appearance.

In the course of a minute or two, by one of those sudden changes of atmosphere incident to
a mountainous country, a breeze arose and swept before it the clouds which had covered the
horizon, and the night planet poured her full effulgence upon a wide and blighted heath, skirted
indeed with copse-wood and stunted trees in the quarter from which they had come, but open
and bare to the observation of the sentinel in that to which their course tended. The wall
of the sheep-fold indeed concealed them as they lay, but any advance beyond its shelter seemed
impossible without certain discovery.

The Highlander eyed the blue vault, but far from blessing the useful light with Homer's, or
rather Pope's benighted peasant, he muttered a Gaelic curse upon the unseasonable splendour
of Mac- Farlane's buat (i.e. lantern) [Footnote: See Note 1]. He looked anxiously around for
a few minutes, and then apparently took his resolution. Leaving his attendant with Waverley,
after motioning to Edward to remain quiet, and giving his comrade directions in a brief whisper,
he retreated, favoured by the irregularity of the ground, in the same direction and in the
same manner as they had advanced. Edward, turning his head after him, could perceive him crawling
on all fours with the dexterity of an Indian, availing himself of every bush and inequality
to escape observation, and never passing over the more exposed parts of his track until the
sentinel's back was turned from him. At length he reached the thickets and underwood which
partly covered the moor in that direction, and probably extended to the verge of the glen where
Waverley had been so long an inhabitant. The Highlander disappeared, but it was only for a
few minutes, for he suddenly issued forth from a different part of the thicket, and, advancing
boldly upon the open heath as if to invite discovery, he levelled his piece and fired at the
sentinel. A wound in the arm proved a disagreeable interruption to the poor fellow's meteorological
observations, as well as to the tune of 'Nancy Dawson,' which he was whistling. He returned
the fire ineffectually, and his comrades, starting up at the alarm, advanced alertly towards
the spot from which the first shot had issued. The Highlander, after giving them a full view
of his person, dived among the thickets, for his ruse de guerre had now perfectly succeeded.

While the soldiers pursued the cause of their disturbance in one direction, Waverley, adopting
the hint of his remaining attendant, made the best of his speed in that which his guide originally
intended to pursue, and which now (the attention of the soldiers being drawn to a different
quarter) was unobserved and unguarded. When they had run about a quarter of a mile, the brow
of a rising ground which they had surmounted concealed them from further risk of observation.
They still heard, however, at a distance the shouts of the soldiers as they hallooed to each
other upon the heath, and they could also hear the distant roll of a drum beating to arms in
the same direction. But these hostile sounds were now far in their rear, and died away upon
the breeze as they rapidly proceeded.

When they had walked about half an hour, still along open and waste ground of the same description,
they came to the stump of an ancient oak, which, from its relics, appeared to have been at
one time a tree of very large size. In an adjacent hollow they found several Highlanders, with
a horse or two. They had not joined them above a few minutes, which Waverley's attendant employed,
in all probability, in communicating the cause of their delay (for the words 'Duncan Duroch'
were often repeated), when Duncan himself appeared, out of breath indeed, and with all the
symptoms of having run for his life, but laughing, and in high spirits at the success of the
stratagem by which he had baffled his pursuers. This indeed Waverley could easily conceive
might be a matter of no great difficulty to the active mountaineer, who was perfectly acquainted
with the ground, and traced his course with a firmness and confidence to which his pursuers
must have been strangers. The alarm which he excited seemed still to continue, for a dropping
shot or two were heard at a great distance, which seemed to serve as an addition to the mirth
of Duncan and his comrades.

The mountaineer now resumed the arms with which he had entrusted our hero, giving him to understand
that the dangers of the journey were happily surmounted. Waverley was then mounted upon one
of the horses, a change which the fatigue of the night and his recent illness rendered exceedingly
acceptable. His portmanteau was placed on another pony, Duncan mounted a third, and they set
forward at a round pace, accompanied by their escort. No other incident marked the course of
that night's journey, and at the dawn of morning they attained the banks of a rapid river.
The country around was at once fertile and romantic. Steep banks of wood were broken by corn-fields,
which this year presented an abundant harvest, already in a great measure cut down.

On the opposite bank of the river, and partly surrounded by a winding of its stream, stood
a large and massive castle, the half- ruined turrets of which were already glittering in the
first rays of the sun. [Footnote: See Note 2.] It was in form an oblong square, of size sufficient
to contain a large court in the centre. The towers at each angle of the square rose higher
than the walls of the building, and were in their turn surmounted by turrets, differing in
height and irregular in shape. Upon one of these a sentinel watched, whose bonnet and plaid,
streaming in the wind, declared him to be a Highlander, as a broad white ensign, which floated
from another tower, announced that the garrison was held by the insurgent adherents of the
House of Stuart.

Passing hastily through a small and mean town, where their appearance excited neither surprise
nor curiosity in the few peasants whom the labours of the harvest began to summon from their
repose, the party crossed an ancient and narrow bridge of several arches, and, turning to the
left up an avenue of huge old sycamores, Waverley found himself in front of the gloomy yet
picturesque structure which he had admired at a distance. A huge iron-grated door, which formed
the exterior defence of the gateway, was already thrown back to receive them; and a second,
heavily constructed of oak and studded thickly with iron nails, being next opened, admitted
them into the interior court-yard. A gentleman, dressed in the Highland garb and having a white
cockade in his bonnet, assisted Waverley to dismount from his horse, and with much courtesy
bid him welcome to the castle.

The governor, for so we must term him, having conducted Waverley to a half-ruinous apartment,
where, however, there was a small camp-bed, and having offered him any refreshment which he
desired, was then about to leave him.

'Will you not add to your civilities,' said Waverley, after having made the usual acknowledgment,
'by having the kindness to inform me where I am, and whether or not I am to consider myself
as a prisoner?'

'I am not at liberty to be so explicit upon this subject as I could wish. Briefly, however,
you are in the Castle of Doune, in the district of Menteith, and in no danger whatever.'

'And how am I assured of that?'

'By the honour of Donald Stewart, governor of the garrison, and lieutenant-colonel in the service
of his Royal Highness Prince Charles Edward.' So saying, he hastily left the apartment, as
if to avoid further discussion.

Exhausted by the fatigues of the night, our hero now threw himself upon the bed, and was in
a few minutes fast asleep.

CHAPTER XXXIX

THE JOURNEY IS CONTINUED

Before Waverley awakened from his repose, the day was far advanced, and he began to feel that
he had passed many hours without food. This was soon supplied in form of a copious breakfast,
but Colonel Stewart, as if wishing to avoid the queries of his guest, did not again present
himself. His compliments were, however, delivered by a servant, with an offer to provide anything
in his power that could be useful to Captain Waverley on his journey, which he intimated would
be continued that evening. To Waverley's further inquiries, the servant opposed the impenetrable
barrier of real or affected ignorance and stupidity. He removed the table and provisions, and
Waverley was again consigned to his own meditations.

As he contemplated the strangeness of his fortune, which seemed to delight in placing him at
the disposal of others, without the power of directing his own motions, Edward's eye suddenly
rested upon his portmanteau, which had been deposited in his apartment during his sleep. The
mysterious appearance of Alice in the cottage of the glen immediately rushed upon his mind,
and he was about to secure and examine the packet which she had deposited among his clothes,
when the servant of Colonel Stewart again made his appearance, and took up the portmanteau
upon his shoulders.

'May I not take out a change of linen, my friend?'

'Your honour sall get ane o' the Colonel's ain ruffled sarks, but this maun gang in the baggage-cart.'

And so saying, he very coolly carried off the portmanteau, without waiting further remonstrance,
leaving our hero in a state where disappointment and indignation struggled for the mastery.
In a few minutes he heard a cart rumble out of the rugged court-yard, and made no doubt that
he was now dispossessed, for a space at least, if not for ever, of the only documents which
seemed to promise some light upon the dubious events which had of late influenced his destiny.
With such melancholy thoughts he had to beguile about four or five hours of solitude.

When this space was elapsed, the trampling of horse was heard in the court-yard, and Colonel
Stewart soon after made his appearance to request his guest to take some further refreshment
before his departure. The offer was accepted, for a late breakfast had by no means left our
hero incapable of doing honour to dinner, which was now presented. The conversation of his
host was that of a plain country gentleman, mixed with some soldier-like sentiments and expressions.
He cautiously avoided any reference to the military operations or civil politics of the time;
and to Waverley's direct inquiries concerning some of these points replied, that he was not
at liberty to speak upon such topics.

When dinner was finished the governor arose, and, wishing Edward a good journey, said that,
having been informed by Waverley's servant that his baggage had been sent forward, he had taken
the freedom to supply him with such changes of linen as he might find necessary till he was
again possessed of his own. With this compliment he disappeared. A servant acquainted Waverley
an instant afterwards that his horse was ready.

Upon this hint he descended into the court-yard, and found a trooper holding a saddled horse,
on which he mounted and sallied from the portal of Doune Castle, attended by about a score
of armed men on horseback. These had less the appearance of regular soldiers than of individuals
who had suddenly assumed arms from some pressing motive of unexpected emergency. Their uniform,
which was blue and red, an affected imitation of that of French chasseurs, was in many respects
incomplete, and sate awkwardly upon those who wore it. Waverley's eye, accustomed to look at
a well-disciplined regiment, could easily discover that the motions and habits of his escort
were not those of trained soldiers, and that, although expert enough in the management of their
horses, their skill was that of huntsmen or grooms rather than of troopers. The horses were
not trained to the regular pace so necessary to execute simultaneous and combined movements
and formations; nor did they seem bitted (as it is technically expressed) for the use of the
sword. The men, however, were stout, hardy-looking fellows, and might be individually formidable
as irregular cavalry. The commander of this small party was mounted upon an excellent hunter,
and, although dressed in uniform, his change of apparel did not prevent Waverley from recognising
his old acquaintance, Mr. Falconer of Balmawhapple.

Now, although the terms upon which Edward had parted with this gentleman were none of the most
friendly, he would have sacrificed every recollection of their foolish quarrel for the pleasure
of enjoying once more the social intercourse of question and answer, from which he had been
so long secluded. But apparently the remembrance of his defeat by the Baron of Bradwardine,
of which Edward had been the unwilling cause, still rankled in the mind of the low-bred and
yet proud laird. He carefully avoided giving the least sign of recognition, riding doggedly
at the head of his men, who, though scarce equal in numbers to a sergeant's party, were denominated
Captain Falconer's troop, being preceded by a trumpet, which sounded from time to time, and
a standard, borne by Cornet Falconer, the laird's younger brother. The lieutenant, an elderly
man, had much the air of a low sportsman and boon companion; an expression of dry humour predominated
in his countenance over features of a vulgar cast, which indicated habitual intemperance. His
cocked hat was set knowingly upon one side of his head, and while he whistled the 'Bob of Dumblain,'
under the influence of half a mutchkin of brandy, he seemed to trot merrily forward, with a
happy indifference to the state of the country, the conduct of the party, the end of the journey,
and all other sublunary matters whatever.

From this wight, who now and then dropped alongside of his horse, Waverley hoped to acquire
some information, or at least to beguile the way with talk.

'A fine evening, sir,' was Edward's salutation.

'Ow, ay, sir! a bra' night,' replied the lieutenant, in broad Scotch of the most vulgar description.

'And a fine harvest, apparently,' continued Waverley, following up his first attack.

'Ay, the aits will be got bravely in; but the farmers, deil burst them, and the corn-mongers
will make the auld price gude against them as has horses till keep.'

'You perhaps act as quartermaster, sir?'

'Ay, quartermaster, riding-master, and lieutenant,' answered this officer of all work. 'And,
to be sure, wha's fitter to look after the breaking and the keeping of the poor beasts than
mysell, that bought and sold every ane o' them?'

'And pray, sir, if it be not too great a freedom, may I beg to know where we are going just now?'

'A fule's errand, I fear,' answered this communicative personage.

'In that case,' said Waverley, determined not to spare civility, 'I should have thought a person
of your appearance would not have been found on the road.'

'Vera true, vera true, sir,' replied the officer, 'but every why has its wherefore. Ye maun
ken, the laird there bought a' thir beasts frae me to munt his troop, and agreed to pay for
them according to the necessities and prices of the time. But then he hadna the ready penny,
and I hae been advised his bond will not be worth a boddle against the estate, and then I had
a' my dealers to settle wi' at Martinmas; and so, as he very kindly offered me this commission,
and as the auld Fifteen [Footnote: The Judges of the Supreme Court of Session in Scotland are
proverbially termed among the country people, The Fifteen.] wad never help me to my siller
for sending out naigs against the government, why, conscience! sir, I thought my best chance
for payment was e'en to GAE OUT [Footnote: See Note 3.] mysell; and ye may judge, sir, as I
hae dealt a' my life in halters, I think na mickle o' putting my craig in peril of a Saint
John-stone's tippet.'

'You are not, then, by profession a soldier?' said Waverley.

'Na, na; thank God,' answered this doughty partizan, 'I wasna bred at sae short a tether, I
was brought up to hack and manger. I was bred a horse-couper, sir; and if I might live to see
you at Whitson-tryst, or at Stagshawbank, or the winter fair at Hawick, and ye wanted a spanker
that would lead the field, I'se be caution I would serve ye easy; for Jamie Jinker was ne'er
the lad to impose upon a gentleman. Ye're a gentleman, sir, and should ken a horse's points;
ye see that through--ganging thing that Balmawhapple's on; I selled her till him. She was bred
out of Lick-the-ladle, that wan the king's plate at Caverton-Edge, by Duke Hamilton's White-Foot,'
etc., etc., etc.

But as Jinker was entered full sail upon the pedigree of Balmawhapple's mare, having already
got as far as great-grandsire and great-grand-dam, and while Waverley was watching for an opportunity
to obtain from him intelligence of more interest, the noble captain checked his horse until
they came up, and then, without directly appearing to notice Edward, said sternly to the genealogist,
'I thought, lieutenant, my orders were preceese, that no one should speak to the prisoner?'

The metamorphosed horse-dealer was silenced of course, and slunk to the rear, where he consoled
himself by entering into a vehement dispute upon the price of hay with a farmer who had reluctantly
followed his laird to the field rather than give up his farm, whereof the lease had just expired.
Waverley was therefore once more consigned to silence, foreseeing that further attempts at
conversation with any of the party would only give Balmawhapple a wished-for opportunity to
display the insolence of authority, and the sulky spite of a temper naturally dogged, and rendered
more so by habits of low indulgence and the incense of servile adulation.

In about two hours' time the party were near the Castle of Stirling, over whose battlements
the union flag was brightened as it waved in the evening sun. To shorten his journey, or perhaps
to display his importance and insult the English garrison, Balmawhapple, inclining to the right,
took his route through the royal park, which reaches to and surrounds the rock upon which the
fortress is situated.

With a mind more at ease Waverley could not have failed to admire the mixture of romance and
beauty which renders interesting the scene through which he was now passing--the field which
had been the scene of the tournaments of old--the rock from which the ladies beheld the contest,
while each made vows for the success of some favourite knight--the towers of the Gothic church,
where these vows might be paid--and, surmounting all, the fortress itself, at once a castle
and palace, where valour received the prize from royalty, and knights and dames closed the
evening amid the revelry of the dance, the song, and the feast. All these were objects fitted
to arouse and interest a romantic imagination.

But Waverley had other objects of meditation, and an incident soon occurred of a nature to
disturb meditation of any kind. Balmawhapple, in the pride of his heart, as he wheeled his
little body of cavalry round the base of the Castle, commanded his trumpet to sound a flourish
and his standard to be displayed. This insult produced apparently some sensation; for when
the cavalcade was at such distance from the southern battery as to admit of a gun being depressed
so as to bear upon them, a flash of fire issued from one of the embrazures upon the rock; and
ere the report with which it was attended could be heard, the rushing sound of a cannon-ball
passed over Balmawhapple's head, and the bullet, burying itself in the ground at a few yards'
distance, covered him with the earth which it drove up. There was no need to bid the party
trudge. In fact, every man, acting upon the impulse of the moment, soon brought Mr. Jinker's
steeds to show their mettle, and the cavaliers, retreating with more speed than regularity,
never took to a trot, as the lieutenant afterwards observed, until an intervening eminence
had secured them from any repetition of so undesirable a compliment on the part of Stirling
Castle. I must do Balmawhapple, however, the justice to say that he not only kept the rear
of his troop, and laboured to maintain some order among them, but, in the height of his gallantry,
answered the fire of the Castle by discharging one of his horse- pistols at the battlements;
although, the distance being nearly half a mile, I could never learn that this measure of retaliation
was attended with any particular effect.

The travellers now passed the memorable field of Bannockburn and reached the Torwood, a place
glorious or terrible to the recollections of the Scottish peasant, as the feats of Wallace
or the cruelties of Wude Willie Grime predominate in his recollection. At Falkirk, a town formerly
famous in Scottish history, and soon to be again distinguished as the scene of military events
of importance, Balmawhapple proposed to halt and repose for the evening. This was performed
with very little regard to military discipline, his worthy quarter-master being chiefly solicitous
to discover where the best brandy might be come at. Sentinels were deemed unnecessary, and
the only vigils performed were those of such of the party as could procure liquor. A few resolute
men might easily have cut off the detachment; but of the inhabitants some were favourable,
many indifferent, and the rest overawed. So nothing memorable occurred in the course of the
evening, except that Waverley's rest was sorely interrupted by the revellers hallooing forth
their Jacobite songs, without remorse or mitigation of voice.

Early in the morning they were again mounted and on the road to Edinburgh, though the pallid
visages of some of the troop betrayed that they had spent a night of sleepless debauchery.
They halted at Linlithgow, distinguished by its ancient palace, which Sixty Years Since was
entire and habitable, and whose venerable ruins, NOT QUITE SIXTY YEARS SINCE, very narrowly
escaped the unworthy fate of being converted into a barrack for French prisoners. May repose
and blessings attend the ashes of the patriotic statesman who, amongst his last services to
Scotland, interposed to prevent this profanation!

As they approached the metropolis of Scotland, through a champaign and cultivated country,
the sounds of war began to be heard. The distant yet distinct report of heavy cannon, fired
at intervals, apprized Waverley that the work of destruction was going forward. Even Balmawhapple
seemed moved to take some precautions, by sending an advanced party in front of his troop,
keeping the main body in tolerable order, and moving steadily forward.

Marching in this manner they speedily reached an eminence, from which they could view Edinburgh
stretching along the ridgy hill which slopes eastward from the Castle. The latter, being in
a state of siege, or rather of blockade, by the northern insurgents, who had already occupied
the town for two or three days, fired at intervals upon such parties of Highlanders as exposed
themselves, either on the main street or elsewhere in the vicinity of the fortress. The morning
being calm and fair, the effect of this dropping fire was to invest the Castle in wreaths of
smoke, the edges of which dissipated slowly in the air, while the central veil was darkened
ever and anon by fresh clouds poured forth from the battlements; the whole giving, by the partial
concealment, an appearance of grandeur and gloom, rendered more terrific when Waverley reflected
on the cause by which it was produced, and that each explosion might ring some brave man's knell.

Ere they approached the city the partial cannonade had wholly ceased. Balmawhapple, however,
having in his recollection the unfriendly greeting which his troop had received from the battery
at Stirling, had apparently no wish to tempt the forbearance of the artillery of the Castle.
He therefore left the direct road, and, sweeping considerably to the southward so as to keep
out of the range of the cannon, approached the ancient palace of Holyrood without having entered
the walls of the city. He then drew up his men in front of that venerable pile, and delivered
Waverley to the custody of a guard of Highlanders, whose officer conducted him into the interior
of the building.

A long, low, and ill-proportioned gallery, hung with pictures, affirmed to be the portraits
of kings, who, if they ever flourished at all, lived several hundred years before the invention
of painting in oil colours, served as a sort of guard chamber or vestibule to the apartments
which the adventurous Charles Edward now occupied in the palace of his ancestors. Officers,
both in the Highland and Lowland garb, passed and repassed in haste, or loitered in the hall
as if waiting for orders. Secretaries were engaged in making out passes, musters, and returns.
All seemed busy, and earnestly intent upon something of importance; but Waverley was suffered
to remain seated in the recess of a window, unnoticed by any one, in anxious reflection upon
the crisis of his fate, which seemed now rapidly approaching.

CHAPTER XL

AN OLD AND A NEW ACQUAINTANCE

While he was deep sunk in his reverie, the rustle of tartans was heard behind him, a friendly
arm clasped his shoulders, and a friendly voice exclaimed,

'Said the Highland prophet sooth? Or must second-sight go for nothing?'

Waverley turned, and was warmly embraced by Fergus Mac-Ivor. 'A thousand welcomes to Holyrood,
once more possessed by her legitimate sovereign! Did I not say we should prosper, and that
you would fall into the hands of the Philistines if you parted from us?'

'Dear Fergus!' said Waverley, eagerly returning his greeting. 'It is long since I have heard
a friend's voice. Where is Flora?'

'Safe, and a triumphant spectator of our success.'

'In this place?' said Waverley.

'Ay, in this city at least,' answered his friend, 'and you shall see her; but first you must
meet a friend whom you little think of, who has been frequent in his inquiries after you.'

Thus saying, he dragged Waverley by the arm out of the guard chamber, and, ere he knew where
he was conducted, Edward found himself in a presence room, fitted up with some attempt at royal
state.

A young man, wearing his own fair hair, distinguished by the dignity of his mien and the noble
expression of his well-formed and regular features, advanced out of a circle of military gentlemen
and Highland chiefs by whom he was surrounded. In his easy and graceful manners Waverley afterwards
thought he could have discovered his high birth and rank, although the star on his breast and
the embroidered garter at his knee had not appeared as its indications.

'Let me present to your Royal Highness,' said Fergus, bowing profoundly--

'The descendant of one of the most ancient and loyal families in England,' said the young Chevalier,
interrupting him. 'I beg your pardon for interrupting you, my dear Mac-Ivor; but no master
of ceremonies is necessary to present a Waverley to a Stuart.'

Thus saying, he extended his hand to Edward with the utmost courtesy, who could not, had he
desired it, have avoided rendering him the homage which seemed due to his rank, and was certainly
the right of his birth. 'I am sorry to understand, Mr. Waverley, that, owing to circumstances
which have been as yet but ill explained, you have suffered some restraint among my followers
in Perthshire and on your march here; but we are in such a situation that we hardly know our
friends, and I am even at this moment uncertain whether I can have the pleasure of considering
Mr. Waverley as among mine.'

He then paused for an instant; but before Edward could adjust a suitable reply, or even arrange
his ideas as to its purport, the Prince took out a paper and then proceeded:--'I should indeed
have no doubts upon this subject if I could trust to this proclamation, set forth by the friends
of the Elector of Hanover, in which they rank Mr. Waverley among the nobility and gentry who
are menaced with the pains of high-treason for loyalty to their legitimate sovereign. But I
desire to gain no adherents save from affection and conviction; and if Mr. Waverley inclines
to prosecute his journey to the south, or to join the forces of the Elector, he shall have
my passport and free permission to do so; and I can only regret that my present power will
not extend to protect him against the probable consequences of such a measure. But,' continued
Charles Edward, after another short pause, 'if Mr. Waverley should, like his ancestor, Sir
Nigel, determine to embrace a cause which has little to recommend it but its justice, and follow
a prince who throws himself upon the affections of his people to recover the throne of his
ancestors or perish in the attempt, I can only say, that among these nobles and gentlemen he
will find worthy associates in a gallant enterprise, and will follow a master who may be unfortunate,
but, I trust, will never be ungrateful.'

The politic Chieftain of the race of Ivor knew his advantage in introducing Waverley to this
personal interview with the royal adventurer. Unaccustomed to the address and manners of a
polished court, in which Charles was eminently skilful, his words and his kindness penetrated
the heart of our hero, and easily outweighed all prudential motives. To be thus personally
solicited for assistance by a prince whose form and manners, as well as the spirit which he
displayed in this singular enterprise, answered his ideas of a hero of romance; to be courted
by him in the ancient halls of his paternal palace, recovered by the sword which he was already
bending towards other conquests, gave Edward, in his own eyes, the dignity and importance which
he had ceased to consider as his attributes. Rejected, slandered, and threatened upon the one
side, he was irresistibly attracted to the cause which the prejudices of education and the
political principles of his family had already recommended as the most just. These thoughts
rushed through his mind like a torrent, sweeping before them every consideration of an opposite
tendency,--the time, besides, admitted of no deliberation,--and Waverley, kneeling to Charles
Edward, devoted his heart and sword to the vindication of his rights!

The Prince (for, although unfortunate in the faults and follies of his forefathers, we shall
here and elsewhere give him the title due to his birth) raised Waverley from the ground and
embraced him with an expression of thanks too warm not to be genuine. He also thanked Fergus
Mac-Ivor repeatedly for having brought him such an adherent, and presented Waverley to the
various noblemen, chieftains, and officers who were about his person as a young gentleman of
the highest hopes and prospects, in whose bold and enthusiastic avowal of his cause they might
see an evidence of the sentiments of the English families of rank at this important crisis.
[Footnote: See Note 4.] Indeed, this was a point much doubted among the adherents of the house
of Stuart; and as a well- founded disbelief in the cooperation of the English Jacobites kept
many Scottish men of rank from his standard, and diminished the courage of those who had joined
it, nothing could be more seasonable for the Chevalier than the open declaration in his favour
of the representative of the house of Waverley-Honour, so long known as Cavaliers and Royalists.
This Fergus had foreseen from the beginning. He really loved Waverley, because their feelings
and projects never thwarted each other; he hoped to see him united with Flora, and he rejoiced
that they were effectually engaged in the same cause. But, as we before hinted, he also exulted
as a politician in beholding secured to his party a partizan of such consequence; and he was
far from being insensible to the personal importance which he himself gained with the Prince
from having so materially assisted in making the acquisition.

Charles Edward, on his part, seemed eager to show his attendants the value which he attached
to his new adherent, by entering immediately, as in confidence, upon the circumstances of his
situation. 'You have been secluded so much from intelligence, Mr. Waverley, from causes of
which I am but indistinctly informed, that I presume you are even yet unacquainted with the
important particulars of my present situation. You have, however, heard of my landing in the
remote district of Moidart, with only seven attendants, and of the numerous chiefs and clans
whose loyal enthusiasm at once placed a solitary adventurer at the head of a gallant army.
You must also, I think, have learned that the commander-in-chief of the Hanoverian Elector,
Sir John Cope, marched into the Highlands at the head of a numerous and well- appointed military
force with the intention of giving us battle, but that his courage failed him when we were
within three hours' march of each other, so that he fairly gave us the slip and marched northward
to Aberdeen, leaving the Low Country open and undefended. Not to lose so favourable an opportunity,
I marched on to this metropolis, driving before me two regiments of horse, Gardiner's and Hamilton's,
who had threatened to cut to pieces every Highlander that should venture to pass Stirling;
and while discussions were carrying forward among the magistracy and citizens of Edinburgh
whether they should defend themselves or surrender, my good friend Lochiel (laying his hand
on the shoulder of that gallant and accomplished chieftain) saved them the trouble of farther
deliberation by entering the gates with five hundred Camerons. Thus far, therefore, we have
done well; but, in the meanwhile, this doughty general's nerves being braced by the keen air
of Aberdeen, he has taken shipping for Dunbar, and I have just received certain information
that he landed there yesterday. His purpose must unquestionably be to march towards us to recover
possession of the capital. Now there are two opinions in my council of war: one, that being
inferior probably in numbers, and certainly in discipline and military appointments, not to
mention our total want of artillery and the weakness of our cavalry, it will be safest to fall
back towards the mountains, and there protract the war until fresh succours arrive from France,
and the whole body of the Highland clans shall have taken arms in our favour. The opposite
opinion maintains, that a retrograde movement, in our circumstances, is certain to throw utter
discredit on our arms and undertaking; and, far from gaining us new partizans, will be the
means of disheartening those who have joined our standard. The officers who use these last
arguments, among whom is your friend Fergus Mac-Ivor, maintain that, if the Highlanders are
strangers to the usual military discipline of Europe, the soldiers whom they are to encounter
are no less strangers to their peculiar and formidable mode of attack; that the attachment
and courage of the chiefs and gentlemen are not to be doubted; and that, as they will be in
the midst of the enemy, their clansmen will as surely follow them; in fine, that having drawn
the sword we should throw away the scabbard, and trust our cause to battle and to the God of
battles. Will Mr. Waverley favour us with his opinion in these arduous circumstances?'

Waverley coloured high betwixt pleasure and modesty at the distinction implied in this question,
and answered, with equal spirit and readiness, that he could not venture to offer an opinion
as derived from military skill, but that the counsel would be far the most acceptable to him
which should first afford him an opportunity to evince his zeal in his Royal Highness's service.

'Spoken like a Waverley!' answered Charles Edward; 'and that you may hold a rank in some degree
corresponding to your name, allow me, instead of the captain's commission which you have lost,
to offer you the brevet rank of major in my service, with the advantage of acting as one of
my aides-de-camp until you can be attached to a regiment, of which I hope several will be speedily
embodied.'

'Your Royal Highness will forgive me,' answered Waverley (for his recollection turned to Balmawhapple
and his scanty troop), 'if I decline accepting any rank until the time and place where I may
have interest enough to raise a sufficient body of men to make my command useful to your Royal
Highness's service. In the meanwhile, I hope for your permission to serve as a volunteer under
my friend Fergus Mac-Ivor.'

'At least,' said the Prince, who was obviously pleased with this proposal, 'allow me the pleasure
of arming you after the Highland fashion.' With these words, he unbuckled the broadsword which
he wore, the belt of which was plaited with silver, and the steel basket-hilt richly and curiously
inlaid. 'The blade,' said the Prince, 'is a genuine Andrea Ferrara; it has been a sort of heir-
loom in our family; but I am convinced I put it into better hands than my own, and will add
to it pistols of the same workmanship. Colonel Mac-Ivor, you must have much to say to your
friend; I will detain you no longer from your private conversation; but remember we expect
you both to attend us in the evening. It may be perhaps the last night we may enjoy in these
halls, and as we go to the field with a clear conscience, we will spend the eve of battle merrily.'

Thus licensed, the Chief and Waverley left the presence-chamber.

CHAPTER XLI

THE MYSTERY BEGINS TO BE CLEARED UP

'How do you like him?' was Fergus's first question, as they descended the large stone staircase.

'A prince to live and die under' was Waverley's enthusiastic answer.

