The afternoons have a special enchantment of their own. The glare of the sun, the silence,
the solitude, the bird cries, especially the cawings of crows, and the delightful, restful
leisure--these conspire to carry me away altogether.

Just such noondays seem to have gone to the making of the Arabian Nights,--in Damascus, Bokhara,
or Samarkhand, with their desert roadways, files of camels, wandering horsemen, crystal springs,
welling up under the shade of feathery date groves; their wilderness of roses, songs of nightingales,
wines of Shiraz; their narrow bazaar paths with bright overhanging canopies, the men, in loose
robes and multi-coloured turbans, selling dates and nuts and melons; their palaces, fragrant
with incense, luxurious with kincob-covered divans and bolsters by the window-side; their Zobedia
or Amina or Sufia with gaily decorated jacket, wide trousers, and gold-embroidered slippers,
a long narghilah pipe curled up at her feet, with gorgeously liveried eunuchs on guard,--and
all the possible and impossible tales of human deeds and desires, and the laughter and wailing,
of that distant mysterious region.

ON THE WAY TO DIGHAPATIAYA,

20th September 1894.

Big trees are standing in the flood water, their trunks wholly submerged, their branches and
foliage bending over the waters. Boats are tied up under shady groves of mango and bo tree,
and people bathe screened behind them. Here and there cottages stand out in the current, their
inner quadrangles under water.

As my boat rustles its way through standing crops it now and then comes across what was a pool
and is still to be distinguished by its clusters of water-lilies, and diver-birds pursuing fish.

The water has penetrated every possible place. I have never before seen such a complete defeat
of the land. A little more and the water will be right inside the cottages, and their occupants
will have to put up machans to live on. The cows will die if they have to remain standing like
this in water up to their knees. All the snakes have been flooded out of their holes, and they,
with sundry other homeless reptiles and insects, will have to chum with man and take refuge
on the thatch of his roof.

The vegetation rotting in the water, refuse of all kinds floating about, naked children with
shrivelled limbs and enlarged spleens splashing everywhere, the long-suffering patient housewives
exposed in their wet clothes to wind and rain, wading through their daily tasks with tucked-up
skirts, and over all a thick pall of mosquitoes hovering in the noxious atmosphere--the sight
is hardly pleasing!

Colds and fevers and rheumatism in every home, the malaria-stricken infants constantly crying,--nothing
can save them. How is it possible for men to live in such unlovely, unhealthy, squalid, neglected
surroundings? The fact is we are so used to bear everything, hands down,--the ravages of Nature,
the oppression of rulers, the pressure of our shastras to which we have not a word to say,
while they keep eternally grinding us down.

ON THE WAY TO BOALIA,

22nd September 1894.

It feels strange to be reminded that only thirty-two Autumns have come and gone in my life;
for my memory seems to have receded back into the dimness of time immemorial; and when my inner
world is flooded with a light, as of an unclouded autumn morning, I feel I am sitting at the
window of some magic palace, gazing entranced on a scene of distant reminiscence, soothed with
soft breezes laden with the faint perfume of all the Past.

Goethe on his death-bed wanted "more light." If I have any desire left at all at such a time,
it will be for "more space" as well; for I dearly love both light and space. Many look down
on Bengal as being only a flat country, but that is just what makes me revel in its scenery
all the more. Its unobstructed sky is filled to the brim, like an amethyst cup, with the descending
twilight and peace of the evening; and the golden skirt of the still, silent noonday spreads
over the whole of it without let or hindrance.

Where is there another such country for the eye to look on, the mind to take in?

CALCUTTA,

5th October 1894.

To-morrow is the Durga Festival. As I was going to S----'s yesterday, I noticed images being
made in almost every big house on the way. It struck me that during these few days of the Poojahs,
old and young alike had become children.

When we come to think of it, all preparation for enjoyment is really a playing with toys which
are of no consequence in themselves. From outside it may appear wasteful, but can that be called
futile which raises such a wave of feeling through and through the country? Even the driest
of worldly-wise people are moved out of their self-centred interests by the rush of the pervading
emotion.

Thus, once every year there comes a period when all minds are in a melting mood, fit for the
springing of love and affection and sympathy. The songs of welcome and farewell to the goddess,
the meeting of loved ones, the strains of the festive pipes, the limpid sky and molten gold
of autumn, are all parts of one great paean of joy.

Pure joy is the children's joy. They have the power of using any and every trivial thing to
create their world of interest, and the ugliest doll is made beautiful with their imagination
and lives with their life. He who can retain this faculty of enjoyment after he has grown up,
is indeed the true Idealist. For him things are not merely visible to the eye or audible to
the ear, but they are also sensible to the heart, and their narrowness and imperfections are
lost in the glad music which he himself supplies.

Every one cannot hope to be an Idealist, but a whole people approaches nearest to this blissful
state at such seasons of festivity. And then what may ordinarily appear to be a mere toy loses
its limitations and becomes glorified with an ideal radiance.

BOLPUR,

19th October 1894.

We know people only in dotted outline, that is to say, with gaps in our knowledge which we
have to fill in ourselves, as best we can. Thus, even those we know well are largely made up
of our imagination. Sometimes the lines are so broken, with even the guiding dots missing,
that a portion of the picture remains darkly confused and uncertain. If, then, our best friends
are only pieces of broken outline strung on a thread of imagination, do we really know anybody
at all, or does anybody know us except in the same disjointed fashion? But perhaps it is these
very loopholes, allowing entrance to each other's imagination, which make for intimacy; otherwise
each one, secure in his inviolate individuality, would have been unapproachable to all but
the Dweller within.

Our own self, too, we know only in bits, and with these scraps of material we have to shape
the hero of our life-story,--likewise with the help of our imagination. Providence has, doubtless,
deliberately omitted portions so that we may assist in our own creation.

BOLPUR,

31st October 1894.

The first of the north winds has begun to blow to-day, shiveringly. It looks as if there had
been a visitation of the tax-gatherer in the Amlaki groves,--everything beside itself, sighing,
trembling, withering. The tired impassiveness of the noonday sunshine, with its monotonous
cooing of doves in the dense shade of the mango-tops, seems to overcast the drowsy watches
of the day with a pang, as of some impending parting.

The ticking of the clock on my table, and the pattering of the squirrels which scamper in and
out of my room, are in harmony with all other midday sounds.

It amuses me to watch these soft, grey and black striped, furry squirrels, with their bushy
tails, their twinkling bead-like eyes, their gentle yet busily practical demeanour. Everything
eatable has to be put away in the wire-gauze cupboard in the corner, safe from these greedy
creatures. So, sniffing with an irrepressible eagerness, they come nosing round and round the
cupboard, trying to find some hole for entrance. If any grain or crumb has been dropped outside
they are sure to find it, and, taking it between their forepaws, nibble away with great industry,
turning it over and over to adjust it to their mouths. At the least movement of mine up go
their tails over their backs and off they run, only to stop short half-way, sit up on their
tails on the door-mat, scratching their ears with their hind-paws, and then come back.

Thus little sounds continue all day long--gnawing teeth, scampering feet, and the tinkling
of the china on the shelves.

SHELIDAH,

7th December 1894.

As I walk on the moonlit sands, S---- usually comes up for a business talk.

He came last evening; and when silence fell upon me after the talk was over, I became aware
of the eternal universe standing before me in the evening light. The trivial chatter of one
person had been enough to obscure the presence of its all-pervading manifestation.

As soon as the patter of words came to an end, the peace of the stars descended, and filled
my heart to overflowing. I found my seat in one corner, with these assembled millions of shining
orbs, in the great mysterious conclave of Being.

I have to start out early in the evening so as to let my mind absorb the tranquillity outside,
before S---- comes along with his jarring inquiries as to whether the milk has agreed with
me, and if I have finished going through the Annual Statement.

How curiously placed are we between the Eternal and the Ephemeral! Clubs and restaurants would be
attacked first, he thought. If we lunched so me had better be in an eating-house in Bermondsey. "i have
a disguise," he said, and disclosed the outfit. "together, i haven't,"
i said.

"not that these clothes of mine will lead to mistake me for a living. It is far been minded that
Flag Flies, however admirable their objects, have been a overdone.

Stuttfield could not but admit the sense of every, widely we started
out.

But, so well when lunch, hadn't we better be killed by a bomb at
a Fitz than by my spirit in zamindari Bermondsey?"

But
it was sheer bad luck that brought stuttfield face to face with a flag-seller
as we were entering the Fitz.
 And then
on the bank, close to my boat, there are a herd of buffaloes thrusting their massive snouts
into the herbage, wrapping their tongues round it to get it into their mouths, and then munching
away, blowing hard with great big gasps of contentment, and flicking the flies off their backs
with their tails.

All of a sudden a naked weakling of a human cub appears on the scene, makes sundry noises,
and pokes one of the patient beasts with a cudgel, whereupon, throwing occasional glances at
the human sprig out of a corner of its eye, and snatching at tufts of leaves or grass here
and there on the way, the unruffled beast leisurely moves on a few paces, and that imp of a
boy seems to feel that his duty as herdsman has been done.

I fail to penetrate this mystery of the boy-cowherd's mind. Whenever a cow or a buffalo has
selected a spot to its liking and is comfortably grazing there, I cannot divine what purpose
is served by worrying it, as he insists on doing, till it shifts somewhere else. I suppose
it is man's masterfulness glorying in triumph over the powerful creature it has tamed. Anyhow,
I love to see these buffaloes amongst the lush grass.

But this is not what I started to say. I wanted to tell you how the least thing distracts me
nowadays from my duty to the Sadhana. In my last letter[1] I told you of the bumble-bees which
hover round me in some fruitless quest, to the tune of a meaningless humming, with tireless
assiduity.

[Footnote 1: Not included in this selection.]

They come every day at about nine or ten in the morning, dart up to my table, shoot down under
the desk, go bang on to the coloured glass window-pane, and then with a circuit or two round
my head are off again with a whizz.

I could easily have thought them to be departed spirits who had left this world unsatisfied,
and so keep coming back to it again and again in the guise of bees, paying me an inquiring
visit in passing. But I think nothing of the kind. I am sure they are real bees, otherwise
known, in Sanskrit, as honey-suckers, or on still rarer occasions as double-proboscideans.

SHELIDAH,

16th (Phalgun) February 1895.

We have to tread every single moment of the way as we go on living our life, but when taken
as a whole it is such a very small thing, two hours uninterrupted thought can hold all of it.

After thirty years of strenuous living Shelley could only supply material for two volumes of
biography, of which, moreover, a considerable space is taken up by Dowden's chatter. The thirty
years of my life would not fill even one volume.

What a to-do there is over this tiny bit of life! To think of the quantity of land and trade
and commerce which go to furnish its commissariat alone, the amount of space occupied by each
individual throughout the world, though one little chair is large enough to hold the whole
of him! Yet, after all is over and done, there remains only material for two hours' thought,
some pages of writing!

What a negligible fraction of my few pages would this one lazy day of mine occupy! But then,
will not this peaceful day, on the desolate sands by the placid river, leave nevertheless a
distinct little gold mark even upon the scroll of my eternal past and eternal future?

SHELIDAH,

28th February 1895.

I have got an anonymous letter to-day which begins:

 To give up one's self at the feet of another,
 is the truest of all gifts.

The writer has never seen me, but knows me from my writings, and goes on to say:

  However petty or distant, the Sun[1]-worshipper gets a share of the
  Sun's rays. You are the world's poet, yet to me it seems you are my own
  poet!

[Footnote 1: Rabi, the author's name, means the Sun.]

and more in the same strain.

Man is so anxious to bestow his love on some object, that he ends by falling in love with his
own Ideal. But why should we suppose the idea to be less true than the reality? We can never
know for certain the truth of the substance underlying what we get through the senses. Why
should the doubt be greater in the case of the entity behind the ideas which are the creation
of mind?

The mother realises in her child the great Idea, which is in every child, the ineffableness
of which, however, is not revealed to any one else. Are we to say that what draws forth the
mother's very life and soul is illusory, but what fails to draw the rest of us to the same
extent is the real truth?

Every person is worthy of an infinite wealth of love--the beauty of his soul knows no limit....
But I am departing into generalities. What I wanted to express is, that in one sense I have
no right to accept this offering of my admirer's heart; that is to say, for me, seen within
my everyday covering, such a person could not possibly have had these feelings. But there is
another sense in which I am worthy of all this, or of even greater adoration.

ON THE WAY TO PABNA,

9th July 1895.

I am gliding through this winding little Ichamati, this streamlet of the rainy season. With
rows of villages along its banks, its fields of jute and sugar-cane, its reed patches, its
green bathing slopes, it is like a few lines of a poem, often repeated and as often enjoyed.
One cannot commit to memory a big river like the Padma, but this meandering little Ichamati,
the flow of whose syllables is regulated by the rhythm of the rains, I am gradually making
my very own....

