THE POOR CLARE

by Elizabeth Gaskell

CHAPTER I.

December 12th, 1747.--My life has been strangely bound up with extraordinary incidents, some
of which occurred before I had any connection with the principal actors in them, or indeed,
before I even knew of their existence.  I suppose, most old men are, like me, more given to
looking back upon their own career with a kind of fond interest and affectionate remembrance,
than to watching the events-- though these may have far more interest for the multitude-- immediately
passing before their eyes.  If this should be the case with the generality of old people, how
much more so with me! . . . If I am to enter upon that strange story connected with poor Lucy,
I must begin a long way back.  I myself only came to the knowledge of her family history after
I knew her; but, to make the tale clear to any one else, I must arrange events in the order
in which they occurred--not that in which I became acquainted with them. 

Could it be that this same abundance of novels need to employ an exquisite art and deep to
stand out from all others which we write? I deny roundly. Good taste, the delicate aesthetic
judgments, if not in contradiction creates considerable confusion on this point. For anyone
refined and cultured, Prosper Mérimée and Theophilus Gauthier, for example, are best novelists
that Eugene Sue and Ponson du Terrail, and yet, and Colomba, or Captain Fracasse have been the twentieth
part of the favor of the public, sale and the applause that The Mysteries of Paris, or the
endless adventures of Rocambole. "This will consist in Sue and Ponson du Terrail use the fine
art and deep Gauthier and Mérimée ignored or that of the general public has a bad taste, is long
overdue and still prefer the coarse to fine? Or does it consist in the real fine art and depth
has not come to be discovered, only recently, when Mérimée and Gauthier were already dead
and buried, and by virtue of the public art have opened the eyes of minds to understand the good,
and Zola, Daudet, Bourget, Ibsen and Tolstoy, they have opened the springs and legitimate sources
of inspiration to produce works that not only pleasing in the day, but that already contain
the germ, if not in flower, the sublime novel future, compared with which Don Quixote is a work
surface, epidermal inconsequential, without education and pastime?

If things were like, fashion and would be fashionable.

The right way, art infallible to write novels would be found, and for the world should stay
away from him, not mislead us or stay behind.

I warn you, however, that these novels, written with exquisite art and deep commends both Mr.
Reyles, but are read, admired and imitated by those who are fanatically Paris fashion, presumably falling
into oblivion, and even contempt, when fashion go and come another fad. It is possible that then
everything today is subtlety, novelty and depth, look flashy and heavy false affectation.

The truth is, the most popular novels, which have been sold in the world right recent years they
have had in appearance at least, the more influence on political events and social, not written
in Paris and the fashion in Paris, but putting in a certain and impetuous current of opinion, leaving
away by it, increasing its spirit and spreading over its action on the human spirit.
  No Highland hut or Irish cabin could be of rougher construction.

The owner of this property, at the beginning of the present century, was a Mr. Patrick Byrne
Starkey.  His family had kept to the old faith, and were stanch Roman Catholics, esteeming
it even a sin to marry any one of Protestant descent, however willing he or she might have
been to embrace the Romish religion.  Mr. Patrick Starkey's father had been a follower of James
the Second; and, during the disastrous Irish campaign of that monarch he had fallen in love
with an Irish beauty, a Miss Byrne, as zealous for her religion and for the Stuarts as himself.
He had returned to Ireland after his escape to France, and married her, bearing her back to
the court at St. Germains.  But some licence on the part of the disorderly gentlemen who surrounded
King James in his exile, had insulted his beautiful wife, and disgusted him; so he removed
from St. Germains to Antwerp, whence, in a few years' time, he quietly returned to Starkey
Manor- house--some of his Lancashire neighbours having lent their good offices to reconcile
him to the powers that were.  He was as firm a Catholic as ever, and as stanch an advocate
for the Stuarts and the divine rights of kings; but his religion almost amounted to asceticism,
and the conduct of these with whom he had been brought in such close contact at St. Germains
would little bear the inspection of a stern moralist.  So he gave his allegiance where he could
not give his esteem, and learned to respect sincerely the upright and moral character of one
whom he yet regarded as an usurper.  King William's government had little need to fear such
a one.  So he returned, as I have said, with a sobered heart and impoverished fortunes, to
his ancestral house, which had fallen sadly to ruin while the owner had been a courtier, a
soldier, and an exile.  The roads into the Trough of Bolland were little more than cart-ruts;
indeed, the way up to the house lay along a ploughed field before you came to the deer-park.
Madam, as the country-folk used to call Mrs. Starkey, rode on a pillion behind her husband,
holding on to him with a light hand by his leather riding-belt.  Little master (he that was
afterwards Squire Patrick Byrne Starkey) was held on to his pony by a serving-man.  A woman
past middle age walked, with a firm and strong step, by the cart that held much of the baggage;
and high up on the mails and boxes, sat a girl of dazzling beauty, perched lightly on the topmost
trunk, and swaying herself fearlessly to and fro, as the cart rocked and shook in the heavy
roads of late autumn.  The girl wore the Antwerp faille, or black Spanish mantle over her head,
and altogether her appearance was such that the old cottager, who described the possession
to me many years after, said that all the country-folk took her for a foreigner. But seeing that all was in vain, made the determination
to leave without the consent of his mother, without reaching the ears of his father, and if possible,
without them knowing more than his chariot drivers. To those people who had placed their trust
gave the necessary orders for as soon as prepare the tools needed to start over. Everything
was already prepared, but did chance Isabel was advised of this resolution unexpectedly, which
immediately sent Don Juan de Fonseca, bishop of Cordoba, that the plea in his name does not go away. A
about to board the carriage was already Doña Juana when it was sent to the Queen. A moment
then failed to find. Sent instantly D. Juan de Fonseca to retire the carriage, and then went to
see the Archduchess, to which he found already at the door of the palace de la Mota, prepared to
march in costume on the road. That required compliance with its position, made her knowledgeable
of the order of the Catholic Queen, intimidated to return to his apartment, but the Archduchess
was not already the case to keep considerations of any kind, so do not said a word, in the heat
of his fiery passion was no more than mysteries, secret agents from rival and her unfaithful
husband, who had no other entertainment to delay their departure. The Bishop of Cordoba hurried
in vain even presenting its instances at every word the name of his mother, but already tired of
hearing disobeyed the order and prayers of this, and preparing to leave: "Let me, he said, is
a sacred duty that I will not stop Anything in this journey. "Then the bishop sent to close
the door, leaving the part of in at the unhappy Juana.

Seeing this lady was confined to the height of his despair, and began
to utter both and that insolent insult phrases, D. Juan de Fonseca
was extremely angry, in spite of having been summoned to the Archduchess
through his camera gentleman, D. Miguel Ferrera.

He would not return, but took the path of Segovia, where he then was Queen Isabel.

When he came D. Juan de Fonseca to where she was the queen gave him part of what has happened with
the princess Isabella, in spite of what was weak and many businesses that gave him his high
position, he set out for Mota in Medina del Campo, presumed that
perhaps his presence would give up his daughter as a project for her
sensitive.

After the usual Fulfilment and to which no attention is paid, promised it would go very soon
to join her husband. "You never want to God, he said the queen, my will or that the king your
father is that of you from the side of your husband, and if anything else on this subject
have dared to say, despreciadla. "

These and other reasons we esponia Isabel, and she in her frenzy, but that did not respond: "They
are useless the prayers of the world: I will not give one iota ... The father of my children!
... I want to see "...

Spoke, and in tears, threw herself on the floor, refusing care all treated to lavish.

Completed and the Cortes of Aragon, did not think it prudent to King
Ferdinand, stop for longer his journey, because it was knowing what
was happening with her daughter, whose mental alienation fostered
every day, and it was quite possible that the detainees, had been
due to declare their folly.

Premeditating this very reason, make available a fleet commanded the
Laredo port of giving the same time his daughter, permission to practice
his expedition to Flanders.

The transports of joy that undergoes Doña Juana with his father's last wishes are indescribable,
and few days later he prepared to make your desired expedition.

                    

CHAPTER III.

The bad weather that was cause for the journey of Doña Juana is made more long, and interview he
had with the mistress of Philip the Fair.

On March 15, 1504, Juana went accompanied by their parents to the point where went to boarding (Laredo),
but everything seemed to come against all seemed to reveal his will. A strong and continuing
to be stopped temporarily sail. This to grow torments of the princess, and take many more of
indignation, because everything seemed to combine to prevent the reunion with her husband.
Two months had to reside in Laredo, which were the the storm lasted, and two months they were
two centuries, if we see the disposition in which was this lady,
and greatly aggravated their ongoing suffering.

Mid April did set sail, arriving in nine days happily to Dicks, a distance of three leagues and
a half of Bruges.

At this point she was expecting her husband, who expressed an unspeakable joy as he turned to embrace,
and she, according to the affection that the painting, he seemed completely oblivious of a so
just resentment. Although the two mutually give evidence of love and happy, entertained both fatal
and mortifications passions, the Archduke, for the passionate love
affair with the maid; and the more rabid jealousy, Doña Juana.

But lived with the hope that the first ever this would know of his
love: and second, to avenge a woman as big disappointments had made
it suffer.

Moved from Bruges to Brussels and here took up residence at the time.

Who can hide enough of the researchers insightful investigations of a woman? This reflection
should make Philip the Fair. Who can not hide from the scrutinizing looks dependents of a
palace, where trade is a kind of gossip and tangles, giving publicity to their advantage to all the
faults of their rulers?

Great peace seemed to reign at first since the arrival of Doña Juana, the Archduke to not disclose
to anyone what was in his imagination, dissembling as could the love of her blonde, but he
was wrong, not even his most hidden steps escaped the penetration
of his wife.

Palace gave them to his master daily report if jealous of his wife; and these same palace to satisfy
themselves as Archduchess detail could help to irritate it more. For one of these came to know that
one of the things that I had loved his maid's husband was her beautiful blond hair populated. But
not content even with this statement, he indicated the places and times where it commonly
gave appointments.

With the previous relationship came to completely exhausted the patience of the Archduchess,
because had fully recognized that he had employed in vain all the resources to provide its unblemished
love to see if this sort to disappear from her husband a passion
she never thought rooted, because he believed a whim.

His jealousy, restrained for some time, were from This day a violent frenzy that increased
their suffering. Occasionally they had already mediated several words between the spouses, but
the Archduke, very in love with his blonde, to yourselves, practicing with the greatest coolness.
These things it was impossible lasted so long, because no one could meet his love, and the
other suffered such humiliation and diversion, and also because the passions of mind can not be contained.

A
terrible scene, through an oversight of Philip, took place. He surprised his wife with dear
... Great was the scandal that circulated throughout the Court, and great was the work cost
him the fury of his wife tarnished because this was not thinking
more than in the revenge.

And something admirable about this woman! ... This revenge was involved did not want his husband,
as though he had come to notice the indifference and disdain that used to treat, however idolized
him wholeheartedly.

His anger was expressly dedicated to her opponent, to outraged that woman who had taken what most
loved on earth. And thanks to the timidity of abandoning all the love of her husband, partly
repressed.

It was seen the palace in Brussels on simply out cries, repeated contentions, and broken words of the
young princes, but as I was putting on his part to hide the archduke, to avoid scandal.

The usual jealous princess who gave rise to not cease to haunt the time of revenge, but unfortunately
arrived.

One day fatal day! that moving your eyes from wandering all the objects that surrounded, he found
the maid, he picked up a well- sharp scissors, I always was armed, she was launched on which
the eagle on its prey, and before her opponent would have been avoided,
and had been stripped of his golden hair.

Not satisfied yet, filled her with bruises and scratches, and we can assure that if the screams
the maid, had not been visiting the site of the bloody scene to all
dependents the palace, and even to the same husband, it was likely
he had killed the she had been cause of their suffering.

Felipe, seeing his beloved stripped of the object that most excites you, filled with indignation:
and were so many insults, so many offensive and insulting words directed to his wife, who
had said he was not equal to the most despised woman in society.

Having seen that Felipe was in this way, contributed a great way to disrupt full trial. Juana could
never believe such treatment in her husband.

The shocking scene you just painted, he soon reached the ears of Queen Elizabeth, and had such
a great feeling that was the cause of his illness was further aggravated.

However, sought by all means at its disposal, to introduce peace among their children, not
be so possible to achieve for some time: the Archduchess had a wound that was not easy to
heal. Finally, they reached their pleas to reconciliation. Joined husbands, but not so Juana
regained peace of mind.

Meanwhile Isabel's health waned by the minute. His sufferings were so continuous no longer doubted
his early death.

One of the main characters of the court, only Crown of Castile to his daughter Juana, and failing
this to D. Charles, his grandson; but warning that if the first was prevented, and Charles did not
have twenty years govern D. Fernando, until he came to this age.

Indeed, on 26 November 1504 Medina del Campo died in Queen Elizabeth Catholic, and the next
day ordered D. Fernando proclaimed by Queen of Spain to his daughter
Archduchess of Austria.

The Court shall in Toro January 11, 1508, were First they swore to Queen Juana by owner of
vast estates in Spain. No could then leave the Archduke of Flanders, both for the many issues
pending therein, for the advanced state of pregnancy of the queen being born by little time by Princess
Mary.

Juana reset your delivery, they stood in the way, but a heavy storm, he made arrival to England,
whose kingdom was well received. A few days after split with direction to Spain, arriving on
April 26, 1506 La Coruna, where he expected most part of the greatness
to receive and pay a fitting tribute to their new monarch.

On their way Valladolid were sworn in, and there enjoyed the festivities that had prevented its
gift.

He seemed extremely relieved at this time Doña Juana, no more than trying to please to her husband
in everything, and leaving him to rule the kingdom to his taste. But how little it lasted this
happiness! So that concluded the Cortes of Valladolid, determined through the main capital
of Spain to become known, because so required everywhere. Began Burgos his race, but unfortunately
oh! In one afternoon they went for a walk, heated up therefore D. Felipe in a game of ball, which
he suffered pneumonia, whose result was subjected to six days, leaving Juana pregnant six months.
Felipe died Beautiful day on September 29, 1506, when he was only twenty-eight years.

Such was the powerful influence that worked in the imagination of
the new Queen's unexpected death her husband, that many days was beside
himself, and locked in the room that she looked more gloomy and sad.

During this alienating, they had made the funeral and therefore the king's body buried in the Charterhouse
of Miraflores. Once this came to his notice, sent it bring in a clearly arranged and bituminized,
because I wanted to live away from him.

So was performed, and not allow anyone to enter, carrying the days and nights looking at the
remnants of the idol of his love. [*] No kind of prayers made her withdraw away from the body. In vain
were the warnings of Cardinal Cisneros; useless against those of women and main characters, noting
the need to address business of the kingdom. Remained closed from inside the room and ordered
a window for which there could send some food.

[* See the engraving that goes in front of this story.]

Many times it would great to know that the alteration was Spain, and answered if your child was ready,
came to rule, and if not, his father, that she had other the most sacred duties to fulfill
as a widow.

Several of the characters believed, to hear her talk to sanity sometimes, if the mistress of
her husband would have used some spells to make her suffer so terribly. What credulity of
the time! Not long before no deviation to the same Queen Juana will appear unbearable that
existence, and shortly after called Cardinal Cisneros, informing
him I could not live any longer in the capital where her husband was
dead, but the Cardinal I wanted to suspend his determination then,
on account of being in an advanced state of pregnancy, but the will
of Doña Juana was always determined, dared not oppose its mandate.

The court moved to Valladolid, by order of Queen expresses.

Using very short days left Burgos on 20 December 1506, accompanied by an increased number of subjects
with lighted torches, many Franciscan friars also with lights, Prior of the Carthusian monks
who were saying and some daily Masses for the soul of the sovereign, whose carton was in the
midst of this funeral procession, followed by car and unhappy Juana Ladies and gentlemen of
the palace. Thus movement until Torquemada where the queen would not go on, staying at the
home of a cleric, and exposes that health status not allowed to continue. On January 14, 1507
gave birth to this town The Infanta Doña Catalina.

Sad and heartbreaking was this year for Spain. A consequence of poverty and lack large developed
a fever that caused innumerable damage. "And you believe that in spite of being the Torquemada
people one of the most invaded by the epidemic were not enough the entreaties of Cardinal Queen
to continue its path? Were many and repeated instances that to this cost, to make late April to
return to starting out with the same device at first, but soon tired of traveling. On arriving at
two distant Plates Torquemada leagues, he wanted to take up residence in it, would live with
more comfort exposes in a large population. So he returned to shut himself up in a small village
with lifeless body of her husband, not ceasing to speak, and with affection, and with complaints,
and with counterclaims, which further increase their incurable madness.

Everything remained so until the news gave her father's coming to Spain. This news was received
with great pleasure, because at the time expressed a desire to find out with D. Fernando, in Castile,
advirtierdo which was to be in short stages and with the same funeral
procession.

Unnecessarily tired ruler of the kingdom, archbishop of Toledo, to make day travel without the
body of her husband, all was in vain, so that there was no other resource repeat every night burial.
So they walked to enter Tórtoles, population where his father was pleased to embrace. But what
was the surprise of D. Fernando to find his dearest daughter in that situation, those wild eyes,
his face cadaverous and that wandering eye! When it came to mind was what had caused his daughter
was in that state, it choked off, and big tears streaked her cheeks. Juana was motionless, weeping,
father of my heart? said, your daughter can no longer imitate. When I surprised my husband's
mistress, I ran out of tears. Consider what would my sadness!

Juana had reached the last degree of madness, was completely crazy,
but nevertheless owner was Queen of Spain and his name and consent
were necessary to give some character to the acts of government.

This consideration prompted the Catholic king to enter into some consultations with their daughter
for the best deal of business and back again to govern dominions of Spain. Joanna, meanwhile,
admitted without any reply as he proposed his father, putting only one condition, that had
to leave to stay in the village of Arcos, "in complete freedom, without having to intervene in another
business, to spend the day the rest of this life, next to the body of her husband. "Much of it
worked vary from this thought, but being useless was granted permission
by sending prepare a house in Arcos, worthy of the person who was
going to live.

Over a year and a half Juana lived in the village of Arcos but nothing had been improved his madness.
Was to see, say some, the animated conversations that this unfortunate lady, had the corpse
of her husband talks that further increase their delirium, and that instead of alleviating,
aggravates it. "Why no answer, Philip? he said: Callais! ... I still sereis !...» These words Proferia
unfaithful to her husband, and others that would cause shame listen.

From Santa Maria del Campo wrote D. His daughter Fernando warning of the need I had to leave to
Tordesillas and making it more healthy population know was that the
village Arcos, and consequently had determined, to receive on their
way to this point.

Dona Juana, was perfectly, according to the answer, in Arcos. So seeing the Catholic king that
his daughter did not accede to his entreaties made the determination, to go for her to see if their
presence could accompany him to Tordesillas. So did D. Fernando Having failed with the influence
exercised over her daughter goes to make that point, but Traveling on the same apparatus in the
other expeditions. Be the temperament to have changed, Whether the trip was not to his liking, the
fact is that Queen Juana was more furious each time, and took more increase its already incurable
disease.

The old Luis Ferrer was the one responsible for the care of Doña Juana, and which is I could not
see, that's why it was a huge opposition to all that the charge made, pleasure in executing the contrary.
If the pleading, for example, lie down in bed did in the ground and if available to be moved
to another room, but decent and well ventilated closed with more strength bolts of it was. When
it was cold, skin discarded and objects that provided shelter, and the more we begged to dress
Luis Ferrer and asease, walking harder dirty and badly dressed.

Shortly after he put on his head the mania of eating and drinking, and there was occasion for
them to go three days without taking anything up that beset by hunger, took something, striving
for dishes where the food sent to him not go out of his room, so that these objects soiled with
others, gave a foul odor to that dwelling, and impossible for both to bear it. There were moments
when, after a great delusion, enjoyed some reason, and lamented that they had torn the crown of
temples and is not happy his enemies with a burst of this kind, had been buried in a so stinking
dungeon guarded by a guard as negligible.

These words came with lightning speed to the ears of the Roman Catholic D. Fernando, so is that
the next year of 1510, when he passed to the Cortes of Monzon, made by visiting, and made sure
everything came together a great council to discuss the method was to look forward to his daughter,
he knew that the presence of D. Luis Ferrer's tormented, the board came out, that after having
provided all necessary toiletries, clothes and food, would be elected twelve ladies for continuing
care of her, and every night to stay awake to compel her to dress, undress and move from shirt,
even against their will. Twenty days was accompanying the King Catholic Doña Juana, which was less
badly, but after that they are obliged to execute the agreement by his father, seized her in
a rage so great that no one could stay at his side. More proactive Cardinal Cisneros greats
who had made the council believed Don appropriate Jubilee Luis Ferrer,
because they thought that maybe it would happen appoint another better
Doña Juana did so by substituting it with Don Fernando Ducos de Estrada.

This gentleman was that the ability he showed in the performance of their duties, which he recently
managed to eat and drank, they slept in their bed, which aseara and dress, and until they moved
from room, because his was not more than a foul dunghill. It was to strengthen their physical,
because with his usual finesse and manners, did this gentleman to go to Mass and attending
to various religious activities.

And his fits of madness were less consistent, so is that certain sections of sight the coffin
of her husband, a few days after being taken to Granada, and although it was great his exasperation
when he perceived, he finally D. Fernando Estrada Ducos reassurance.

But do not think that this came to be good at all, never reached this unhappy queen to regain
its lost cool. However, the Catholic king wrote to Estrada, giving the more affectionate and
repeated thanks for the service he had done to his daughter.

                    

At this time there was already one person who was not aware of the
disease Queen Juana, but nevertheless retained some hope of relief,
but rather the daughter desire of his subjects, that of possibility.

In the Cortes held in Valladolid in January 1518 decreed that if any Queen Juana time was in
a position to command the vast domains of Spain cease his governorship the Catholic King D.
Fernando, and that Joanna was the absolute sovereign.

CHAPTER IV.

The splits that were in Spain, and death of Doña Juana.

There was much dissension in Spain with several parties that began
to form a favor de Doña Juana, others to his son D. Charles, others
to his father, and some others who wanted to come to govern the Emperor
Maximilian I, his father, so I already Spain in 1520 fighting the
dying for their freedom. Supporters of Charles V raised in Castile
the banner of independence, and the chiefs of each other party to
give value flocked to his determination to Doña Juana. Cardinal Cisneros,
then regent and governor the kingdom, was the first appeal to the
queen decided to see if they could leave the hurried circumstances
in which the parties had placed to the provinces and particularly
to Valladolid.

How many were going to discuss such sensitive matters
with the queen, came out very unhappy not ever get a reply worthy
of placate the revolutionaries.  The Irish lawyer whom
I had seen was weary of the case, and would willingly have given up the property, without further
ado, to a man who appeared to claim them; but on laying his tables and trees before my uncle,
the latter had foreseen so many possible prior claimants, that the lawyer had begged him to
undertake the management of the whole business.  In his youth, my uncle would have liked nothing
better than going over to Ireland himself, and ferreting out every scrap of paper or parchment,
and every word of tradition respecting the family.  As it was, old and gouty, he deputed me.

Accordingly, I went to Kildoon.  I suspect I had something of my uncle's delight in following
up a genealogical scent, for I very soon found out, when on the spot, that Mr. Rooney, the
Irish lawyer, would have got both himself and the first claimant into a terrible scrape, if
he had pronounced his opinion that the estates ought to be given up to him.  There were three
poor Irish fellows, each nearer of kin to the last possessor; but, a generation before, there
was a still nearer relation, who had never been accounted for, nor his existence ever discovered
by the lawyers, I venture to think, till I routed him out from the memory of some of the old
dependants of the family. What had become of him?  I travelled backwards and forwards; I crossed
over to France, and came back again with a slight clue, which ended in my discovering that,
wild and dissipated himself, he had left one child, a son, of yet worse character than his
father; that this same Hugh Fitzgerald had married a very beautiful serving-woman of the Byrnes--a
person below him in hereditary rank, but above him in character; that he had died soon after
his marriage, leaving one child, whether a boy or a girl I could not learn, and that the mother
had returned to live in the family of the Byrnes.  Now, the chief of this latter family was
serving in the Duke of Berwick's regiment, and it was long before I could hear from him; it
was more than a year before I got a short, haughty letter--I fancy he had a soldier's contempt
for a civilian, an Irishman's hatred for an Englishman, an exiled Jacobite's jealousy of one
who prospered and lived tranquilly under the government he looked upon as an usurpation.  "Bridget
Fitzgerald," he said, "had been faithful to the fortunes of his sister--had followed her abroad,
and to England when Mrs. Starkey had thought fit to return.  Both his sister and her husband
were dead, he knew nothing of Bridget Fitzgerald at the present time:  probably Sir Philip
Tempest, his nephew's guardian, might be able to give me some information."  I have not given
the little contemptuous terms; the way in which faithful service was meant to imply more than
it said-- all that has nothing to do with my story.  Sir Philip, when applied to, told me that
he paid an annuity regularly to an old woman named Fitzgerald, living at Coldholme (the village
near Starkey Manor- house).  Whether she had any descendants he could not say.

One bleak March evening, I came in sight of the places described at the beginning of my story.
I could hardly understand the rude dialect in which the direction to old Bridget's house was given.

"Yo' see yon furleets," all run together, gave me no idea that I was to guide myself by the
distant lights that shone in the windows of the Hall, occupied for the time by a farmer who
held the post of steward, while the Squire, now four or five and twenty, was making the grand
tour.  However, at last, I reached Bridget's cottage--a low, moss-grown place:  the palings
that had once surrounded it were broken and gone; and the underwood of the forest came up to
the walls, and must have darkened the windows.  It was about seven o'clock--not late to my
London notions--but, after knocking for some time at the door and receiving no reply, I was
driven to conjecture that the occupant of the house was gone to bed.  So I betook myself to
the nearest church I had seen, three miles back on the road I had come, sure that close to
that I should find an inn of some kind; and early the next morning I set off back to Coldholme,
by a field-path which my host assured me I should find a shorter cut than the road I had taken
the night before.  It was a cold, sharp morning; my feet left prints in the sprinkling of hoar-frost
that covered the ground; nevertheless, I saw an old woman, whom I instinctively suspected to
be the object of my search, in a sheltered covert on one side of my path.  I lingered and watched
her.  She must have been considerably above the middle size in her prime, for when she raised
herself from the stooping position in which I first saw her, there was something fine and commanding
in the erectness of her figure.  She drooped again in a minute or two, and seemed looking for
something on the ground, as, with bent head, she turned off from the spot where I gazed upon
her, and was lost to my sight.  I fancy I missed my way, and made a round in spite of the landlord's
directions; for by the time I had reached Bridget's cottage she was there, with no semblance
of hurried walk or discomposure of any kind.  The door was slightly ajar.  I knocked, and the
majestic figure stood before me, silently awaiting the explanation of my errand.  Her teeth
were all gone, so the nose and chin were brought near together; the gray eyebrows were straight,
and almost hung over her deep, cavernous eyes, and the thick white hair lay in silvery masses
over the low, wide, wrinkled forehead.  For a moment, I stood uncertain how to shape my answer
to the solemn questioning of her silence.

"Your name is Bridget Fitzgerald, I believe?"

She bowed her head in assent.

"I have something to say to you.  May I come in?  I am unwilling to keep you standing."

"You cannot tire me," she said, and at first she seemed inclined to deny me the shelter of
her roof.  But the next moment--she had searched the very soul in me with her eyes during that
instant--she led me in, and dropped the shadowing hood of her gray, draping cloak, which had
previously hid part of the character of her countenance. The cottage was rude and bare enough.
But before the picture of the Virgin, of which I have made mention, there stood a little cup
filled with fresh primroses.  While she paid her reverence to the Madonna, I understood why
she had been out seeking through the clumps of green in the sheltered copse.  Then she turned
round, and bade me be seated.  The expression of her face, which all this time I was studying,
was not bad, as the stories of my last night's landlord had led me to expect; it was a wild,
stern, fierce, indomitable countenance, seamed and scarred by agonies of solitary weeping;
but it was neither cunning nor malignant.

"My name is Bridget Fitzgerald," said she, by way of opening our conversation.

"And your husband was Hugh Fitzgerald, of Knock Mahon, near Kildoon, in Ireland?"

A faint light came into the dark gloom of her eyes.

"He was."

"May I ask if you had any children by him?"

The light in her eyes grew quick and red.  She tried to speak, I could see; but something rose
in her throat, and choked her, and until she could speak calmly, she would fain not speak at
all before a stranger.  In a minute or so she said--"I had a daughter--one Mary Fitzgerald,"--then
her strong nature mastered her strong will, and she cried out, with a trembling wailing cry:
"Oh, man! what of her?- -what of her?"

She rose from her seat, and came and clutched at my arm, and looked in my eyes.  There she
read, as I suppose, my utter ignorance of what had become of her child; for she went blindly
back to her chair, and sat rocking herself and softly moaning, as if I were not there; I not
daring to speak to the lone and awful woman.  After a little pause, she knelt down before the
picture of Our Lady of the Holy Heart, and spoke to her by all the fanciful and poetic names
of the Litany.

"O Rose of Sharon!  O Tower of David!  O Star of the Sea! have ye no comfort for my sore heart?
Am I for ever to hope?  Grant me at least despair!"--and so on she went, heedless of my presence.
Her prayers grew wilder and wilder, till they seemed to me to touch on the borders of madness
and blasphemy.  Almost involuntarily, I spoke as if to stop her.

"Have you any reason to think that your daughter is dead?

She rose from her knees, and came and stood before me.

"Mary Fitzgerald is dead," said she.  "I shall never see her again in the flesh.  No tongue
ever told me; but I know she is dead. Perhaps I would have been better not to exalt fight for both, and bounds since then, as and I
shall confine myself to this sublunary world and the men who will live, in whom it is progress,
because, without doubt, had a beginning and grew, but will, in my opinion, limited progress because
and this planet has to last forever, nor is it likely that humanity does not contain itself
in germ powers to unfold in perpetual ascent, and improve with unrelenting and indefinite progress,
and drawing from among its members what they call now the superman, The coming believe not
a few, for example, Mr. D. Gener Pompey, and for which I suspect that the future will write those
novels that tells Mr. Reyles, using to write the new newly invented art of poetry and is so exquisite
and so deep.

Above all this talk in a separate article, because this already very
long.

II

From the cute catarrinia to the elegant and beautiful Helena and from antropiscos alal who left
the Lemuria and spread in flocks and howling all over the world to
the man who composed the Iliad and those who understood and enjoyed
reading it, so there is progress astonishing that, even if thousands
of centuries to perform, still seems unlikely and all but impossible.

Perhaps it is all the wise dream ingenious engaged to prehistory.

Let us doubt the claims of this science brand. Without it. And affirm with the data supplied
recorded history and no dream, that neither beauty nor body strength and agility, or in courage
and fortitude, and clarity and elevation thoughts, today our lineage more noble and perfect types
that displayed and, as real people, make more than three thousand
years.

The man, therefore, has no any progress in its own being, for so long.

The opposite is what you can or think it can be said when considering the sublimity mission of
some individuals of our species, happiness and met with the transcendence charitable works, compared
to which nothing is equal in the day. The firms gave top individuals and communities from very ancient
times, not be discerned they may have now or in the near future, something to overcome them.
I do not deny the possibility anything, I merely stated that I do not perceive, for example,
greater glory, nor things present or in the future, that of ancient Greece, which check the
foundation, creating the trace and forged mold of any further European culture to that of
a single city, Rome, which has dominion the best of the Orb, and with their laws and language
unifies and prepares it to receive with ease other higher element of civilization, and of
that peninsula where live, that to extend this civilization beyond
the boundaries and known terms until then, manages to discover new
worlds.

I repeat, therefore, that men who did such great things are not inferior to those of the day.
Then in our being there has been progress. Yet progress is undeniable, if not us, in what is outside
us, although our power and accumulated inheritance. Napoleon, for instance, is not better than Alexander
the Great, but Napoleon has guns and other means of warfare that
Alexander did not have.

Neither Kant nor Hegel worth as much as Aristotle but Aristotle did not possess the scientific
data twentieth of Kant and Hegel.

Fed is understood and in what sense and to what extent progress is undeniable. No progress in science
but in art there is no progress. If Pericles would be resurrected today turulato to hear the
phonograph, talking on the phone and see the electric poles, balloons, Railways and photography.
Even a box to fit a small dog matches to topple him the ground, dazed
with awe and surprise, but it sure would not find among all Paris
hetairae a more discreet, distinguished and beautiful that Aspasia,
and you seem Magdalena a sad parody of the Parthenon and the Eiffel
Tower an ugly and monstrous freak.

I confess that, if brought together the finest lyrical poetry of great poets Pericles today
and could read and understand, was to find them superior to those of Pindar. Neat would explain why.
Suffice it that I recognize that in the lyric outbid the old. Not so in the rest. The same wealth
of knowledge and the itch to analyze things and look all around each object, remove grace,
lightness and sharpness style and make it heavy, confusing and vague. Pericles accustomed to the
speed of the narration Herodotus could not stand or the great historian Macaulay, who, if he
had continued history of England until now, have had to give the stamp hundreds volumes of the
Tauchnitz edition, and would have been necessary, even for an intelligent reader and regular,
the use of some years of life just to read and learn half Macaulay of what he says. Used also
to the conciseness Pericles in the telling of so many beautiful fables, legends and traditions of
their homeland, I'd bet a thousand to one that would not suffer with patience, without yawning
and without sleep, the ponderous and endless descriptions a novel
by Zola.

It is true that anyone will tell me to answer that Zola does not write
for me to read Pericles, but to read to the men of the day.

And as men of the day like many of his novels, Zola has great merit, and as I say, no evidence
against it.

My reply is clear. I do not want to infer or infer anything about the merits of the novels Zola.
Were written to please in the day, and this has been achieved. Is
it enough credit.

All I hope to demonstrate is the undisputed progress of science and the above discussed progress
of art. It is clear that Pericles is admire and like the phone, but also is clear or almost clear
that not admire or like almost any of our novels.

For even more evidence, we turn to other fine art: a sculpture. Nobody will deny that glorious character
who gave his name to his century and was so clear and delicate understanding like, remember
the Jupiter and Minerva of Phidias friend, and all the statues of our plazas, temples and tours
will seem less than medium. Now suppose that the resurrected Pericles cicerone serves as a sage
of the deepest in the day, very convinced of the incomparable superiority of everything today on all
the old, and very aware of the advances Science and brand new most ingenious inventions. This
leads to the Olympic wise Pericles to a cabinet or museum of wax figures and lets me shocked and stunned.
What have see Minerva and Jupiter, where gold, ivory and marble exterior only imitate what Nature
and even that incompletely and without all his hair and signals, as wax figures? Well say nothing
if the wise man winds up the figures, and as most of them are automated, are released to walk and
even open their mouths and greet the distinguished Greek Tourist. And still be the more the wonder
of it when his wise guidance touch certain springs, open windows
in belly and chest to the figures mentioned above and to lift them
gently and without any damage the brains out.

      The Athenian then exclaim,
    like the character in a celebrated zarzuela:

Today the advance science
that is an outrage.

Indeed, thanks to a skillful mechanics, aided by the wonderful chemistry and other disciplines,
in the interior of each figure starts to move the heart, blood flows by arteries and veins,
lungs and air takes with him a thousand operations, and, finally, and not tired, go up the brains
many atoms of phosphorus and other volatile essences are sneak in there like he owned the place,
several celulillas, and little time, as the Gusarapo, worms and other caterpillars, butterflies come,
Beatilla and mosquitoes, many varied flows thoughts and feelings,
good and evil, which can quickly become crimes or deeds, in moralizing
or subversive speeches, works of charity or rapes and murders.

Pericles then have to confess that this is exquisite and deep, as
he calls Mr. Reyles to his art.

What does not confess, which blindly deny, is that it is fine art such mischief.

And still we go from bad to worse in this matter of fine art, if the figures shows that the cicerone
Pericles are made for the study of internal diseases, and is within them how they form tumors, fistulas,
ulcers, growths and all sorts of pupae. The poor Pericles, perhaps wrongly imagined that the arts
serve to amuse, soothe and lift spirit, just get with this brand new art fair to be up and upset
your stomach, and force him to make a libation in honor of Aesculapius with Cyprus wine you had
on your last supper next to his beautiful Aspasia, which has been
preserved in the tomb, for twenty centuries, and that made you dream
a thousand divine beauties there.

Now apply to the pleasant literature of the statues which have said.

Easy is to get the following consequences:

That such literature should you remove the epithet enjoyable.

If it is not pleasant is not helpful either, because it upsets us and afflicts the poor showing, with
all disgusting and horrible details and does not offer any remedy.

That even if this literature is very scientific fashion, exquisite and deep, yet can deny that
it is well underway literature, but mere extravagance, and tends
not to amuse, but to teach, in order to be fulfilled better than novels,
with physiological lectures, pathological, histological and teratological.

And

those who sustain the progress of threatened rare literature, novels based on the fashion, assume,
not a decline in everything else, this would be less bad, but progress and growth horrible perversion
and corruption of the human, whose paint is thoroughly Case of the novels above.

If science had shown that evil is inevitable, which is explained by determinism vices and virtues,
imagination and faith schools should be dismissed as anachronistic and and that only we have
hope or on earth or in heaven, very dismal and evil Science had made progress, but progress would
end and we should respect him, and we should bow our heads and resign. All this science distressing
us teach, digging a heart in a fist, and full of fear and disgust, it would be nice entered
in scientific treatise, courses and epitomes, but in the novels often by people who has not won
a tassel at the universities, all could go Trabucador and although it came out, would not
novel either, but poorly digested hodgepodge of science, fantastic
accessible to all, and would stir interest only and not as a simple
art works and healthy, but our nerves overwrought like potions and
liniments pharmaceutical that make us see horrific visions and to
which we fans a perverse curiosity.

I feel that the ink is still a lot to say, but I can not help it,
and making point here, I leave for another day.

III

I had thought not to bother again readers of The Liberal flowing and meditating aesthetic issues
in relation to novels, but as I suffer from some ailment, before and today called cacohetes
scribendi graphomania call, had already written my third article on progress in the art of
the word, and I had not dared to send him to The Liberal. My intent was and is writing on the
subject as I come up and then reunite in a book, printing it very small number of copies. So,
now I see The Liberal an article in which my illustrious friend, Doña Emilia Pardo Bazán, seeks to
challenge what I said and even what I have said. Me not a little flattered that Dona Emilia
is used in this, but I will not pass because it gives me views that I have not delivered. I never
said I that the novels of Zola, Daudet, Goncourt, Tolstoy, Ibsen, etc., are bad. On the contrary,
I said that may be so good and so excellent, that the writing, the same donut Emilia, Pereda, Galdós,
Jacinto Octavio Picon, Armando Palacio Valdés and several others, without I exclude, will obrillas
insubstantial, and absolutely devoid of epidermal education and transcendence. But this would
be that Spain and the Spanish are decayed and even left hand of God, so that, just as there is
now Gonzalo de Cordoba, Polite, Pizarro and Cisneros, there is also Cervantes. And there will
be that there is an art exquisite and profound just invented out of Spain produced such wonders,
leaving bewildered and bowlegged, and moving to mimic the perpetrators of such wonders, to see
if bothered to find out the brand new procedure that make them giddy and the whole world with our
novels as you giddy them. I did not say neither more nor less than what I repeat now, albeit
heavy, but even if it is heavy, as Dona Emilia gives me the opportunity
to do so, I will continue my meditations aesthetic, inserting here
is my third article for fear that of exhausting the public remained
unpublished, and is as follows:

The only thing I am truly sorry and
that sometimes leads me to regret having made deal very complicated
issue is the multitude of aspects under which substantial amount and
extension therefore I have to give this writing.

Moreover, my conviction is ever stronger the more I think about it, but I believe useless or
of little importance explain and defend what my thinking is presented as true opinions against
me seem false and even absurd. I'm not excited about the national pride and singular, not affirm
nor deny, but I for cheap, to pave the way for the discussion, removing tripping medium, in French
and Russian novels of the day are much better than those in Spain are written. Ingenuity, inspiration,
and a joke, have perhaps migrated from Spain. I do not want deny it, I'm just sorry. What I
deny, and that is the question, is that fine progress as it progresses arts chemistry or surgery,
and the superiority of the novels French and Russian on our own, are that those are written
in the precepts of fine art and newly invented deep.

I will concede that in everything, even in the fine points, there is progress, as we technician
or call the office, but, well I admit, I recognize also that technical and progressive literature,
little importance compared with the essential it, in which there
is no progress.

Recapacítese well and see that at no time placed men in the level of the most vulgar and culture
medium was then, it has taken more special studies or more years of learning to be a poet or
novelist that exercise any other occupation. All men, for example, can speak and write, but
not all drive the awl and tirapié, and may not apply to it with zeal and perseverance.
  I declare solemnly that nothing
you have said has daunted me in my wish to become Lucy's husband; nor will I shrink from any
difficulty that, as such an aspirant, I may have to encounter.  You say you are friendless--why
cast away an honest friend?  I will tell you of people to whom you may write, and who will
answer any questions as to my character and prospects.  I do not shun inquiry."

She shook her head again.  "You had better go away, sir.  You know nothing about us."

"I know your names," said I, "and I have heard you allude to the part of the country from which
you came, which I happen to know as a wild and lonely place.  There are so few people living
in it that, if I chose to go there, I could easily ascertain all about you; but I would rather
hear it from yourself."  You see I wanted to pique her into telling me something definite.

"You do not know our true names, sir," said she, hastily.

"Well, I may have conjectured as much.  But tell me, then, I conjure you.  Give me your reasons
for distrusting my willingness to stand by what I have said with regard to Mistress Lucy."

"Oh, what can I do?" exclaimed she.  "If I am turning away a true friend, as he says?--Stay!"
coming to a sudden decision--" I will tell you something--I cannot tell you all--you would
not believe it. But, perhaps, I can tell you enough to prevent your going on in your hopeless
attachment.  I am not Lucy's mother."

"So I conjectured," I said.  "Go on."

"I do not even know whether she is the legitimate or illegitimate child of her father.  But
he is cruelly turned against her; and her mother is long dead; and for a terrible reason, she
has no other creature to keep constant to her but me.  She--only two years ago-- such a darling
and such a pride in her father's house!  Why, sir, there is a mystery that might happen in
connection with her any moment; and then you would go away like all the rest; and, when you
next heard her name, you would loathe her.  Others, who have loved her longer, have done so
before now.  My poor child! whom neither God nor man has mercy upon--or, surely, she would die!"

The good woman was stopped by her crying.  I confess, I was a little stunned by her last words;
but only for a moment.  At any rate, till I knew definitely what was this mysterious stain
upon one so simple and pure, as Lucy seemed, I would not desert her, and so I said; and she
made me answer:-

"If you are daring in your heart to think harm of my child, sir, after knowing her as you have
done, you are no good man yourself; but I am so foolish and helpless in my great sorrow, that
I would fain hope to find a friend in you.  I cannot help trusting that, although you may no
longer feel toward her as a lover, you will have pity upon us; and perhaps, by your learning
you can tell us where to go for aid."

"I implore you to tell me what this mystery is," I cried, almost maddened by this suspense.

"I cannot," said she, solemnly.  "I am under a deep vow of secrecy. If you are to be told,
it must be by her."  She left the room, and I remained to ponder over this strange interview.
I mechanically turned over the few books, and with eyes that saw nothing at the time, examined
the tokens of Lucy's frequent presence in that room.

When I got home at night, I remembered how all these trifles spoke of a pure and tender heart
and innocent life.  Mistress Clarke returned; she had been crying sadly.

"Yes," said she, "it is as I feared:  she loves you so much that she is willing to run the
fearful risk of telling you all herself--she acknowledges it is but a poor chance; but your
sympathy will be a balm, if you give it.  To-morrow, come here at ten in the morning; and,
as you hope for pity in your hour of agony, repress all show of fear or repugnance you may
feel towards one so grievously afflicted."

I half smiled.  "Have no fear," I said.  It seemed too absurd to imagine my feeling dislike
to Lucy.

"Her father loved her well," said she, gravely, "yet he drove her out like some monstrous thing."

Just at this moment came a peal of ringing laughter from the garden. It was Lucy's voice; it
sounded as if she were standing just on one side of the open casement--and as though she were
suddenly stirred to merriment--merriment verging on boisterousness, by the doings or sayings
of some other person.  I can scarcely say why, but the sound jarred on me inexpressibly.  She
knew the subject of our conversation, and must have been at least aware of the state of agitation
her friend was in; she herself usually so gentle and quiet. I half rose to go to the window,
and satisfy my instinctive curiosity as to what had provoked this burst of, ill-timed laughter;
but Mrs. Clarke threw her whole weight and power upon the hand with which she pressed and kept
me down.

"For God's sake!" she said, white and trembling all over, "sit still; be quiet.  Oh! be patient.
To-morrow you will know all.  Leave us, for we are all sorely afflicted.  Do not seek to know
more about us."

Again that laugh--so musical in sound, yet so discordant to my heart. She held me tight--tighter;
without positive violence I could not have risen.  I was sitting with my back to the window,
but I felt a shadow pass between the sun's warmth and me, and a strange shudder ran through
my frame.  In a minute or two she released me.

"Go," repeated she.  "Be warned, I ask you once more.  I do not think you can stand this knowledge
that you seek.  If I had had my own way, Lucy should never have yielded, and promised to tell
you all.  Who knows what may come of it?"

"I am firm in my wish to know all.  I return at ten tomorrow morning, and then expect to see
Mistress Lucy herself."

I turned away; having my own suspicions, I confess, as to Mistress Clarke's sanity.

Conjectures as to the meaning of her hints, and uncomfortable thoughts connected with that
strange laughter, filled my mind.  I could hardly sleep.  I rose early; and long before the
hour I had appointed, I was on the path over the common that led to the old farm-house where
they lodged.  I suppose that Lucy had passed no better a night than I; for there she was also,
slowly pacing with her even step, her eyes bent down, her whole look most saintly and pure.
She started when I came close to her, and grew paler as I reminded her of my appointment, and
spoke with something of the impatience of obstacles that, seeing her once more, had called
up afresh in my mind.  All strange and terrible hints, and giddy merriment were forgotten.
My heart gave forth words of fire, and my tongue uttered them.  Her colour went and came, as
she listened; but, when I had ended my passionate speeches, she lifted her soft eyes to me,
and said -

"But you know that you have something to learn about me yet.  I only want to say this:  I shall
not think less of you--less well of you, I mean--if you, too, fall away from me when you know
all.  Stop!" said she, as if fearing another burst of mad words.  "Listen to me.  My father
is a man of great wealth.  I never knew my mother; she must have died when I was very young.
When first I remember anything, I was living in a great, lonely house, with my dear and faithful
Mistress Clarke.  My father, even, was not there; he was--he is--a soldier, and his duties
lie aboard.  But he came from time to time, and every time I think he loved me more and more.
He brought me rarities from foreign lands, which prove to me now how much he must have thought
of me during his absences.  I can sit down and measure the depth of his lost love now, by such
standards as these.  I never thought whether he loved me or not, then; it was so natural, that
it was like the air I breathed.  Yet he was an angry man at times, even then; but never with
me.  He was very reckless, too; and, once or twice, I heard a whisper among the servants that
a doom was over him, and that he knew it, and tried to drown his knowledge in wild activity,
and even sometimes, sir, in wine.  So I grew up in this grand mansion, in that lonely place.
Everything around me seemed at my disposal, and I think every one loved me; I am sure I loved
them. Till about two years ago--I remember it well--my father had come to England, to us; and
he seemed so proud and so pleased with me and all I had done.  And one day his tongue seemed
loosened with wine, and he told me much that I had not known till then,--how dearly he had
loved my mother, yet how his wilful usage had caused her death; and then he went on to say
how he loved me better than any creature on earth, and how, some day, he hoped to take me to
foreign places, for that he could hardly bear these long absences from his only child.  Then
he seemed to change suddenly, and said, in a strange, wild way, that I was not to believe what
he said; that there was many a thing he loved better--his horse--his dog--I know not what.

"And 'twas only the next morning that, when I came into his room to ask his blessing as was
my wont, he received me with fierce and angry words.  'Why had I,' so he asked, 'been delighting
myself in such wanton mischief--dancing over the tender plants in the flower-beds, all set
with the famous Dutch bulbs he had brought from Holland?' I had never been out of doors that
morning, sir, and I could not conceive what he meant, and so I said; and then he swore at me
for a liar, and said I was of no true blood, for he had seen me doing all that mischief himself--with
his own eyes.  What could I say?  He would not listen to me, and even my tears seemed only
to irritate him.  That day was the beginning of my great sorrows.  Not long after, he reproached
me for my undue familiarity--all unbecoming a gentlewoman--with his grooms.  I had been in
the stable-yard, laughing and talking, he said.  Now, sir, I am something of a coward by nature,
and I had always dreaded horses; be-sides that, my father's servants--those whom he brought
with him from foreign parts- -were wild fellows, whom I had always avoided, and to whom I had
never spoken, except as a lady must needs from time to time speak to her father's people. 
Yet my father called me by names of which I hardly know the meaning, but my heart told me they
were such as shame any modest woman; and from that day he turned quite against me;--nay, sir,
not many weeks after that, he came in with a riding-whip in his hand; and, accusing me harshly
of evil doings, of which I knew no more than you, sir, he was about to strike me, and I, all
in bewildering tears, was ready to take his stripes as great kindness compared to his harder
words, when suddenly he stopped his arm mid- way, gasped and staggered, crying out, 'The curse--the
curse!'  I looked up in terror.  In the great mirror opposite I saw myself, and right behind,
another wicked, fearful self, so like me that my soul seemed to quiver within me, as though
not knowing to which similitude of body it belonged.  My father saw my double at the same moment,
either in its dreadful reality, whatever that might be, or in the scarcely less terrible reflection
in the mirror; but what came of it at that moment I cannot say, for I suddenly swooned away;
and when I came to myself I was lying in my bed, and my faithful Clarke sitting by me.  I was
in my bed for days; and even while I lay there my double was seen by all, flitting about the
house and gardens, always about some mischievous or detestable work.  What wonder that every
one shrank from me in dread--that my father drove me forth at length, when the disgrace of
which I was the cause was past his patience to bear.  Mistress Clarke came with me; and here
we try to live such a life of piety and prayer as may in time set me free from the curse."

All the time she had been speaking, I had been weighing her story in my mind.  I had hitherto
put cases of witchcraft on one side, as mere superstitions; and my uncle and I had had many
an argument, he supporting himself by the opinion of his good friend Sir Matthew Hale. 

Ferdinand and Isabella, and never well weighted famous Catholic kings, occupied the thrones
of Aragon and Castile, an example of morality and wisdom to all his court, and being highly esteemed
not only by the aristocracy of his time, but also by all his subjects. The royal couple are grateful
to the displays of affection lavished these perpetually, could not express it under its appreciation
in a more commendable, because these monarchs not dishonor any vassal hiciese stop his carriage,
even in the most and popular public to pay attention to what they wished to express. However
this has always been known, according to historians, never absent from the palace those common
disagreements and gossip, daughters of envy. No evidence to characterize but this truth, that the
tape being then Queen Isabel the Catholic, began to propagate several characters, among whom
was D. Enrique de Villena, the succession waiting could not fail to be a bastard, and this is
apparent from the various scenes had witnessed in the palace. But yet to be D. Fernando so proactive,
and to inspect both things that were annexed, it appears that these voices took them by vague,
and did not care of them, so is that these characters attributed to indolence D. Fernando at this
point fear or the excess professed to love Isabella, who united the links wife Being the granddaughter
of his brother.

Particular view would take the de Villena and others to spread by
the masses such voices, but a view that later were discovered by the
one you were selling friendship, declaring the sovereign verbally
projects designed for them, and written correspondence showing they
had intercepted, addressed to D. Juan of Portugal, which immediately
answered D. Fernando sent through his business, Lope de Alburquerque.

Not having loved Don John of Portugal to hear the messenger of Castile, and having come to
know very soon D. Fernando, his temper in such a way that nobody dared to issue a word. Sought
placate anger in some moments, but all in vain; threatened he would do understand to their opponents what
they deserve who grieves the monarch of Castile, and that would show how great was his strength
against him angry. Nor were enough to appease his anger the pleas of his brother D. Pedro de
Acuña, Count of Buendia, who protested not terribly irritated, maybe a forged news, as could be,
was the reason the scorn and curses that went without distinction of relatives and friends. Only at
warnings of a personage was silent out of respect, was giving place to the King D. Fernando.
This character was known granger his love for his beautiful quality, which was around flattering,
making his words the monarch chest replenish each day more passion. Even Queen Elizabeth it
had on many occasions to rely on this favorite to talk with her royal husband.

These events occurred in the imperial palace of Toledo, when she gave birth to Queen Elizabeth
II on November 6, 1479, the Princess Juana of Castile, much like her grandmother Dona Juana,
wife of D. John III of Aragon, says the author of the Catholic Queens.

The name of Doña Juana is one of the monarchs that have long figured more in Spain ahead of
the actual documents and orders, and yet we can say that rarely,
or rather in neither party had a taste for the work that gave him
its high large hierarchy.

This kind of weariness to the destination hard it was to exercise at the age required by law,
he was increasing over the years, on the contrary, any task to that devote themselves to their
sex, but embraced with joy unspeakable, so is that's still young,
was the admiration of all who heard and watched their entertainment.

To this we may add that his name was but just a way to make known the heir to the throne of
Castilla existed.

When your child a few years after the famous Charles V took over the government of Spain, by the
usual impossibility of her mother, observed the same method, or because so require in various
estates of the realm, or because she was the sovereign actually respect and pray for and attention,
as it became known to give statements in his son Philip, pedia hiciese strongly preserve unharmed the
unfortunate name of your grandmother in front of public affairs, not to cause discontent.

Fifty years is sovereign retained the title of queen of Spain, in spite of not having ruled not
a single day, such was the mental alienation that was caused by the powerful possessed well-founded
reasons that will later be know.

The memorable D. Francisco Jimenez de Cisneros and the king Don Fernando, ordered, as governors
during the minority of Charles V, did not divulge the failure of
Doña Juana, to Despite being intimately convinced of their inability,
so that by many and repeated efforts made by some to declare it null
and void, did not make it, and why at all their way, they never suffered
from not having the will to either your acts of government.

His reason was extremely disturbed by the impulses of a lawful and
vehement passion: was because of this cruel life of an inmate imprisoned,
and if you ever felt resentful their precarious fate it was to continue
to promote itself with the plight of ardent imagination, thinking
that perhaps would commit a contempt order against her more tender
adoration.

This is the reason why a name of itself as enlightened, has barely featured under the concept political,
in the immense catalog of the Spanish sovereigns, and therefore is entirely zero. But notwithstanding
all, was the queen of this magnanimous and powerful nation, the daughter of the great Catholic
monarchs D. Ferdinand and Isabella, and mother of noble and brave
Emperor Charles V; so that the details of his private life, the reasons
why he fell into his insanity, and the foundation that is called the
Mad, can not fail to excite curiosity, and double cause, can you look
in this sovereign, as in the mirror of the sad sad results that the
violent passions have led to the extremity, if not modified and punish
with reason.

Equipped Juana of uncommon talent, a lively and ardent imagination, he was educated in a way
not common for that time: and especially in the Greco-Roman language, did admirable progress,
that he spoke with a charming ease.

The sage says Luis Vives that any material which is treated in this language, as if suddenly answered
out in Castilian. These qualities unia of a slender figure and very interesting, it was the type
of beauty, full of grace and dignity, her big eyes, expressive and ragged, denote the rare talent
and energy of his soul, that which accompanied the dignified and elegant manners of the court
of Elizabeth, paragon of virtue and morality.

All these great circumstances, together with the power of their fathers, and of Doña Juana one of
those games more advantaged for any young prince in Europe. These same circumstances constituted
a creditor to be idolized princess, even for not I had the pleasure
and honor to admire.

Clear proof that not long time some Princes to see what was what could be the owner of gem
that is invaluable. D. Fernando and Queen Elizabeth would not also extend their marriage, so
I count only fifteen years, ie, in 1494, adjusted to the desired wedding D. Philip, Archduke of
Austria, Duke of Flanders, Artois and the Tyrol, and the son of German Emperor Maximilian I.
Adjusted they were, instantly was begun preparations to march with the pomp and solemnity worthy
of the daughter of such powerful men. A fleet of twenty ships high board made ready in the port
of Laredo, embarking on her fifteen thousand men of war including crew. A Don Alonso Enriquez,
Grand Admiral of Castile, was entrusted with the command this fleet:
D. went Chaplain Diego de Villaescusa, dean of Jaen, and the charge
by the king to serve and to be the immediate command of the princess,
was Dona Teresa Velasco, wife of the admiral who led this expedition.

The camera and all destinations within membership to his person, was served by ladies and gentlemen
of the first nobility of Spain; so it says in the lists of them is D. Lorenzo de Padilla.
It is needless to mention clothes and jewelry that were to adorn so August princess can be
said for short which had been arranged with elegance and profusion.

Preparations finished, went the whole royal family to the port of Laredo Almazan, to dismiss them
as Escelsa princess, except the king D. Fernando found that holding of Cortes in Aragon, could
not verify it, very reluctantly. The late Prince D. Juan, Joanna's brother, and his August mother accompanied
her to the entrance of the ship, where drowned in a sea of ​​tears, gave each other the most tender
and loving God. A God that echoed through every corner of the boat, in recognition to the real
people who were on the ground. The day August 19, 1496 were made sail with direction States to flamingos.
No mishap had been noticed, anything that had come to disturb the tranquility of the famous traveler
had occasionally happen, touching off the coast of Flanders, where he raised a storm so stormy,
that were obliged to shelter at the first point of salvation they found. Great was the grief
of seeing Joanna impending danger in his life, but God wanted could arrive at the port of Toorlan,
in England, after having walked for a term of more than two hours, fighting with raging waves
that another moment had plunged into the depths of the seas. In this population remained seven
days, during which the princess was very flattered by the ladies and nobles of that country, who
came rushing to kiss his hand and together to offer their services.

CHAPTER II.

Of how he married Joanna, the children he had and other matters of interest.

When the storm has subsided, arranged the trip to Flanders, and on September 8 landed in the Bay
of Ramna, a port situated on the outskirts of Holland, no other contrast to be gone several valuable
jewels of the princess, because the vessel where his bedroom was wrecked in a bank called the
Monge, very dangerous place. The prince, who had intended to Heaven Joanna's husband, then lived
a lavish Lande palace, village in the Tyrol, but ascertained the promised coming of his face,
left this, going with the fastest speed to Liege, where he had the pleasure of admiring the
beauty of the Infanta, after having waited impatiently thirteen days in this city. Immediately
was put into execution the marriage having been given blessings D. Diego de Villaescusa, Dean
of Jaen.

Practiced with the greatest solemnity and magnificence the usual ceremonies,
went to Antwerp, and thence to Brussels, where they were full of congratulations,
and where they had arranged to his arrival the people of this province
many festivals, which were the young couple enjoying a long time.

                    Such were the entertainment arranged by the people Brussels, which
some authors claim, he was heard more than once to say to Philip,
who in good point win would be his residence this capital.

It is believed that D. Felipe was an arrogant figure, handsome gentleman and very friendly sumptuously
dressed. To this is added as an amiable character, so everybody liked him. These qualities were
what the renowned Le Grange Fair. The Infanta Doña Juana was on the other hand extremity and energetic,
but nevertheless, it took a passion so vehement, that from the moment he saw him loved him with blind
idolatry. The affection of Juana Felipe el Hermoso towards more added every day, by the way of
life they observed, and the good behavior of the archduke, who as a young, not thinking about
anything but pleasures; So here we were in tournaments, evening parties and other entertainment
which grew to more than the passion of his young wife, watching the bravery and skill in the
arms of his Felipe.

Her husband was the object of their worship, it had deposited his heart, and he lived alone,
the young archduke paid this love to Doña Juana with all the warmth of his young age, and the gallant
manner of a prince, so that Infanta had one of those beings happier, and more when it came to
notice that soon to be mother.

Opportunity came when they left for Flanders after some time, which
gave birth to Doña Juana on November 15, 1498 to Dona Leonor, then
continuing through unscathed in his love both and not ceasing to be
an example of the spouses or ones.

Despite the fact that although would be like it was enough only the possession of the fruits
of his marriage to have taken more increased its unalloyed affection.

For their states did not have the best success being born female, but nevertheless, as were
ones parents, the child was appreciated. Two years later, in 1500, marched to Ghent, where on
February 21 had a son, whom nominated Charles, later known throughout the universe by his fame and
power. Great was the joy that looked painted on their faces of the inhabitants of those states,
striving every man expressing his joy he experienced by the Crown Prince. Were also innumerable
festivals with such a solemn occasion were implemented, and would therefore cause to raise the
extract of this story to a huge height.

Began around this time and Doña Juana to sink into despair, because since the fortune everything
seemed to tilt the favor to the newborn, began to vanish as if by magic the happiness of the
mother of Emperor Charles V.

Misfortune came to take the life in
the same year of 1500 to the end of July the infant D. Michael, son
of King D. John of Portugal, last child in the male line of kings
D. Catholics Fernando and Queen Isabel, falling as a consequence the
crown of Spain, in mother Leonor and D. Charles.

D. Ferdinand and Isabella immediately called Don Juan de Fonseca, bishop of Cordoba, and ordered
him to pass the order as soon as possible to Flanders for knowing the archdukes this event,
to congratulate them on their real names, and make known the vital
their need to plan your trip to Spain, for and eagerly awaited to
be sworn in as chief of this great nation, that the sky had deigned
to leave as the sole heirs.

A few days passed without D. Juan de Fonseca to fulfill its mission; but the tape found in Doña Juana
and the many occupations in this delicate time came to be Philip the Fair in those states, were
the cause of that could not be verified the planned journey to end and the year of 1501, which
gave birth to her third child, (Mrs. Isabel.) Bodies were so continuous that led D. Fernando
from his court, who were Archdukes required to set out, even without being fully restlablecida Juana
of the indisposition of his birth, so they solved it by land, crossing French states.

The rulers of this nation were received with the greatest affability,
lavishing endless displays of affection, and treating them with decency
and respect due to so powerful lords.

A small annoyance happened was the cause of the Archduke soon put
in departure abroad to Spain.

A holiday solemn Mass came to real French family accompanied by his royal guests. At the offertory
a lady came to Juana, approaching his hand a number of currencies, so as usual the names offered
to the public queen. This was rejected with violence, saying: "Do unto your sovereign know
me not offer it for anyone, do you understand?

". With the money and the answer came back the messenger to the Queen, who felt a slight degree
so marked, but trying to restrain his anger, was content to pay that with a larger one, which
was not provided with the exit of the church rather than to the royal entourage. Joanna's insight
made to present something on this particular, and indeed he was right, because as the Mass
ended, he began to meet the family, however, she was in church. The queen waited a bit on the
street but pretending Juana knew all this, he remained in that position long while, then going alone
to the palace.

Everything went hearsay in court about the snub that remains explanations, and had passed later
if the Archduke not try to apologize to his wife of shots that ran it; so hastily had to shorten
his trip to the Spanish soil.

Had already begun the days of 1502, when they made their entry into
Spain by Fuenterrabia.

In this capital waiting on the recommendation of D. Fernando and Queen Isabel, Don Bernardo de
Sandoval y Rojas, who accompanied by Burgos, Valladolid and Madrid
to Toledo, at which point were called the Parliament of the kingdom,
where, after jurors were heirs the crown of Spain, according to calculation,
was on 22 May of that year 1502.

Passed after also to be sworn to the kingdoms of Aragon and Valencia, in which they accompanied
their journey parents.

Back because of this expedition was to stop at Alcalá de Henares, in consequence of birth was
near Doña Juana. All parties that are prepared at the court to the archdukes heirs, were suspended
to run after the double object the new birth of a prince, which took effect on the day March
10, 1503 with the birth of the Infante Don Fernando who succeeded after the Emperor Charles
V in the empire Germany.

Occurrences that had by then in the states of Philip the Fair, did not allow continue any longer
in Spain, so I decided to get up instantly, even against their will, were not enough the pleas
of his mother, nor to Doña Juana make him desist from his efforts. From this period dates
the fatal madness of the mother of many kings.

Since that time he was so miserable a woman worthy of a better fate. Anyone you know what you
are jealous, you can judge which Juana had therefore been assumed that until the shadow was about
to snatch a husband so dearly.

Philip in turn had paid the fair value with the love placed in him, but it was extinguished,
not enthusiastic and repeated praise of his wife, and this caused him not feeling his departure,
checking it even before that the latter is the response of indisposition of his birth.

In the entourage Doña Juana, forming his servants, when he went to Flanders perform their wedding,
was a young girl, who was the admiration of all. Possessed a beautiful blonde pleasant and seductive,
graceful too much, and an extraordinary talent.

To find himself in the palace of the Archduke, motivated return Philip the Handsome of Spain,
once rid of unbounded praise of Doña Juana, look at her with such adhesion, which finally concluded
by blindly passionate attraction of the Spanish blonde, whose magnificent golden hair came
to seduce her heart.

Did not take long to succumb to the repeated instances of Philip,
which a few days to no was only a servant and who now occupied the
place of a queen.

Backbiting and envy began to be felt in the palace, and therefore did not last long without
the disclosure of this event so that as quickly as the news came to Spain, and immediately
learned real people.
  Yet you see a papist,
if he's a rich squire, can overrule both law and Scripture.  I'd carry a faggot myself to rid
the country of her!"

Such a one could give me no help.  I rather drew back what I had already said; and tried to
make the parson forget it, by treating him to several pots of beer, in the village inn, to
which we had adjourned for our conference at his suggestion.  I left him as soon as I could,
and returned to Coldholme, shaping my way past deserted Starkey Manor-house, and coming upon
it by the back.  At that side were the oblong remains of the old moat, the waters of which
lay placid and motionless under the crimson rays of the setting sun; with the forest-trees
lying straight along each side, and their deep-green foliage mirrored to blackness in the burnished
surface of the moat below--and the broken sun-dial at the end nearest the hall--and the heron,
standing on one leg at the water's edge, lazily looking down for fish--the lonely and desolate
house scarce needed the broken windows, the weeds on the door-sill, the broken shutter softly
flapping to and fro in the twilight breeze, to fill up the picture of desertion and decay.
I lingered about the place until the growing darkness warned me on.  And then I passed along
the path, cut by the orders of the last lady of Starkey Manor-House, that led me to Bridget's
cottage.  I resolved at once to see her; and, in spite of closed doors--it might be of resolved
will--she should see me.  So I knocked at her door, gently, loudly, fiercely.  I shook it so
vehemently that a length the old hinges gave way, and with a crash it fell inwards, leaving
me suddenly face to face with Bridget--I, red, heated, agitated with my so long baffled efforts--she,
stiff as any stone, standing right facing me, her eyes dilated with terror, her ashen lips
trembling, but her body motionless.  In her hands she held her crucifix, as if by that holy
symbol she sought to oppose my entrance.  At sight of me, her whole frame relaxed, and she
sank back upon a chair.  Some mighty tension had given way.  Still her eyes looked fearfully
into the gloom of the outer air, made more opaque by the glimmer of the lamp inside, which
she had placed before the picture of the Virgin.

"Is she there?" asked Bridget, hoarsely.

"No!  Who?  I am alone.  You remember me."

"Yes," replied she, still terror stricken.  "But she--that creature-- has been looking in upon
me through that window all day long.  I closed it up with my shawl; and then I saw her feet
below the door, as long as it was light, and I knew she heard my very breathing--nay, worse,
my very prayers; and I could not pray, for her listening choked the words ere they rose to
my lips.  Tell me, who is she?-- what means that double girl I saw this morning?  One had a
look of my dead Mary; but the other curdled my blood, and yet it was the same!"

She had taken hold of my arm, as if to secure herself some human companionship.  She shook
all over with the slight, never-ceasing tremor of intense terror.  I told her my tale as I
have told it you, sparing none of the details.

How Mistress Clarke had informed me that the resemblance had driven Lucy forth from her father's
house--how I had disbelieved, until, with mine own eyes, I had seen another Lucy standing behind
my Lucy, the same in form and feature, but with the demon-soul looking out of the eyes.  I
told her all, I say, believing that she--whose curse was working so upon the life of her innocent
grandchild--was the only person who could find the remedy and the redemption.  When I had done,
she sat silent for many minutes.

"You love Mary's child?" she asked.

"I do, in spite of the fearful working of the curse--I love her.  Yet I shrink from her ever
since that day on the moor-side.  And men must shrink from one so accompanied; friends and
lovers must stand afar off.  Oh, Bridget Fitzgerald! loosen the curse!  Set her free!"

"Where is she?"

I eagerly caught at the idea that her presence was needed, in order that, by some strange prayer
or exorcism, the spell might be reversed.

"I will go and bring her to you," I exclaimed.  Bridget tightened her hold upon my arm.

"Not so," said she, in a low, hoarse voice.  "It would kill me to see her again as I saw her
this morning.  And I must live till I have worked my work.  Leave me!" said she, suddenly,
and again taking up the cross.  "I defy the demon I have called up.  Leave me to wrestle with it!"

She stood up, as if in an ecstasy of inspiration, from which all fear was banished.  I lingered--why
I can hardly tell--until once more she bade me begone.  As I went along the forest way, I looked
back, and saw her planting the cross in the empty threshold, where the door had been.

The next morning Lucy and I went to seek her, to bid her join her prayers with ours.  The cottage
stood open and wide to our gaze.  No human being was there:  the cross remained on the threshold,
but Bridget was gone.

CHAPTER III.

What was to be done next? was the question that I asked myself.  As for Lucy, she would fain
have submitted to the doom that lay upon her.  Her gentleness and piety, under the pressure
of so horrible a life, seemed over-passive to me.  She never complained.  Mrs. Clarke complained
more than ever.  As for me, I was more in love with the real Lucy than ever; but I shrunk from
the false similitude with an intensity proportioned to my love.  I found out by instinct that
Mrs. Clarke had occasional temptations to leave Lucy.  The good lady's nerves were shaken,
and, from what she said, I could almost have concluded that the object of the Double was to
drive away from Lucy this last, and almost earliest friend.  At times, I could scarcely bear
to own it, but I myself felt inclined to turn recreant; and I would accuse Lucy of being too
patient--too resigned.  One after another, she won the little children of Coldholme.  (Mrs.
Clarke and she had resolved to stay there, for was it not as good a place as any other, to
such as they? and did not all our faint hopes rest on Bridget--never seen or heard of now,
but still we trusted to come back, or give some token?)  So, as I say, one after another, the
little children came about my Lucy, won by her soft tones, and her gentle smiles, and kind
actions.  Alas! one after another they fell away, and shrunk from her path with blanching terror;
and we too surely guessed the reason why.  It was the last drop.  I could bear it no longer.
I resolved no more to linger around the spot, but to go back to my uncle, and among the learned
divines of the city of London, seek for some power whereby to annul the curse.

My uncle, meanwhile, had obtained all the requisite testimonials relating to Lucy's descent
and birth, from the Irish lawyers, and from Mr. Gisborne.  The latter gentleman had written
from abroad (he was again serving in the Austrian army), a letter alternately passionately
self-reproachful and stoically repellant.  It was evident that when he thought of Mary--her
short life--how he had wronged her, and of her violent death, he could hardly find words severe
enough for his own conduct; and from this point of view, the curse that Bridget had laid upon
him and his, was regarded by him as a prophetic doom, to the utterance of which she was moved
by a Higher Power, working for the fulfilment of a deeper vengeance than for the death of the
poor dog.  But then, again, when he came to speak of his daughter, the repugnance which the
conduct of the demoniac creature had produced in his mind, was but ill-disguised under a show
of profound indifference as to Lucy's fate.  One almost felt as if he would have been as content
to put her out of existence, as he would have been to destroy some disgusting reptile that
had invaded his chamber or his couch.

The great Fitzgerald property was Lucy's; and that was all--was nothing.

My uncle and I sat in the gloom of a London November evening, in our house in Ormond Street. And
as we were putting it clear the event and details were piling up, mingling mocking phrases and reticence
of comic effect, squeezing his heart, little is pressed little, as if they all were pressing
in their hands, one after another, to make damage. But his face remained impassive. Not the slightest
contraction accused the pain the bite.

The gathering broke up at noon, as usual. Fernanda felt great comfort in breathing cold, damp
air of the night. Was craving to be alone with his thoughts and be fully aware of what had just
learned.

It had rained a lot. The streets, paved with thick stone, sparkled in the light of lamps. When
leaving the house took some down the street, others, including Fernanda upward toward the square.
Few steps were taken when they heard the loud trotting horses at
that moment that bent the corner and down towards them.

- There is
the Baron and his servant - said Manuel Antonio.

It was time, indeed, that the eccentric baron Oscos went for his usual walk through the streets
of Lancia. The unpaved his famous prancing horse, raising such a crash, even if the horse of his
servant, much more patient, it appeared that crossing the city a squadron. When crossing the
circles, Manuel Antonio, with the impudence to characterized him, he shouted: "Good evening, Baron."
But he turned to face them fearful, stared at them with his fierce eyes and moved on without answering.
The queen, running, said:

- Va drunk, as usual!

Everyone nodded laughing. But deep felt all, some more than others, the same thrill to see that
sinister figure. Fernanda, for women and special status of his soul, visibly flinch, after
spending continued even through the eyes of fear of two riders until
they were lost in the shadows.

When you get into bed, his heart tightened, wanted to analyze the
emotion that dominated; wanted to go back to the cause.

He felt ashamed of it. His pride made him cry with rage and loud

- Me I care about these pranks? What I have to do with him or her?

But I just felt utter such words heated cheeks with tears.

The Heiress Estrada, Rosa quickly turned and buried her face covered with blushes, in pillows.

VII

The
increase of the quota.

The terrible difficulties should arise Emilita for marriage because of the anti-war views of his
father, he bashed her with more ease than could be expected. History does not speak (although better
reason to have that many events) that day Nunez was solemn in uniform to ask D. Christopher
the hand of his daughter, that embrace memorable it received him warmly against his chest shaking
civilian, that incredible fusion of two heterogeneous elements created to repel, and thanks to the
love a sweet and naughty angel interpenetrate and understood. If by chance this Page Private object
of attention was a historian, would have no choice but to affirm the very great importance of
such agreement, which until then had considered unlikely, and at the same time to present fairly
the back, discovering how future generations So the distinguished
patrician D. Christopher Matthew was the victim of social injustice
and persecution of their fellow citizens.

You know, everyone in Lancia authorized to give thought to this respectable old song and a former
official on the marriage of his daughter. Sometimes directly, sometimes indirectly, always played
such an extent that alluded to the opinions against the development of ground forces supported
by him until then. The couple gave to be called "the increased the quota, "and some carried
their impudence to give such a name in front of his future son.

It is easy to conceive how much saliva would have had to swallow before losing, as he, an annoying
and misunderstood shame.

But despite all the rants and complaints of the neighbors, reflecting, in Matthew felt, rather
than its playful nature, envy that burned most of the hearts, "the increased quota" was making its
way. The deadline to do it was the month of August. When the time came he had acquired such
importance that, as usually in small towns, barely talked about anything else. Retired relationships
and four daughters were numerous, and they all aspired to be invited on the day of wedding.
Moreover, the same aspiration in his heart some decent and honorable Pontevedra battalion officers
friends of the future. Not being able to gather so many people Poetic Home for the Elderly,
was thought to hold the wedding in the country. The purpose home more Farm was its proximity
to the population.

D. Cristobal asked for the count, with who had extreme confidence, like his daughters, and he
hastened to put to provision.

In the Church of San Rafael was consummated early in the morning that fortunate partnership, the
sure pledge peace between the civilian and military. Fray Diego blessed him, as the priest
most bizarre and stronger anise drinker of the capital, enjoyed great prestige among the officers.
Event was attended by over twenty women and nearly as many gentlemen. As ended all moved to
the farm to spend the day. For being so near the population does not need coaches. However,
were the Count de Onis and Quiñones to transport the bride and groom
and some older people, as the two ladies de Mere.

Among the guests were almost all the gathering of the Grandee, enough of that of the de Mere and
a growing number of officers.

The count had been clean, as far as possible, the ancient mansion. Almost everyone knew him
as their home. It was the site of picnics obliged by being so close and by the beautiful forest
that I had. The counts had never refused permission. When they arrived and tasted the chocolate,
which awaited them in the vast living room with brick paving floor that served as dining-room
without ceremony spread through the house and farm ready to kill the hours until the best possible
way to sound the eating. The bride, Amalia, who was her godmother, and two other ladies went
to sit in a severely rooms. Her eyes were bright, her cheeks red and tried in vain dress with a
dignified and serious continent's deep emotion that seized. Which the accompanied, married all
the cherished endlessly, passing his hand through his hair, giving pat on the cheek, taking her hands
and occasionally leaning over to print a kiss on her forehead with the condescending, half tender,
half ironic, that the veterans contemplate marriage to the fledgling. No one of those that
when approaching a girlfriend not vibrate in your chest feel the echo of distant music and
some divine comes to her lips like honey from the remote moon, but it comes oh! with some
years left bitterish matrimonial prose. In every married woman is a disillusioned poet of his
muse.

Hence the baironiana smile on your face to see the joy that burns in the eyes of a bride.

Emilita
character had changed in a quarter of an hour. All playful and pert that had shown until then,
now appeared serious and brochette. Discoursed wisely with midwives, their partners, about the
installation of the pantry, domestic service all considered in terrible decline, the price
of meat. So old that had done in this quarter of an hour, which surprised not to see and a strand
of silver in her hair gold.

In contrast to her sisters, strange contrast, I had taken some years off since the lower take
up office. Had regressed to childhood. As creatures eager to air and light to grow, the forest
lanzáronse three, encouraging their loud screams and innocent silence and peace that reigned there.
Virgen del Amparo what they jumped, they laughed at the mischief that took place in those short little
crazy! To indulge in innocent games, which required that they had experienced recoil Suddenly,
the blankets are removed, leaving the hair loose, pull the gloves, fan, the umbrella, anything
that might symbolize youth and joyful stay with attributes adolescence. Not only do they float
on your back your hair angelic, but clock shed, bracelets and rings that deliver to his dad,
hanging before his neck to make a thousand strokes as simple and passionate girls who were,
done and observing that some officers of the battalion worthy of the contemplation Pontevedra,
fleeing blushing and confused, we include skirts with pins to leave open the foot and leg,
and the innocence of his heart run away, always fleeing through the woods forward, dodging and
nymphs of Diana the burning eyes of the officers.

And when they reach a secluded and lonely where shadows thicken, which fail worldly noises
nor penetrate the malicious eyes of men, called with cries of joy, like birds of God, her friends,
invite them to come and enjoy this nice free security where they can show their thanks and
be safe recreation surprised. Then a proposed play the string and the other access clapping his
hands. Jovita is the first. Jump, jump until it is exhausted and is dropped on the grass touching
his heart, throbbing with the fatigue, not the insane turmoil youthful lusts. Then jump another,
then another and another until they all tend lifeless but smiling, reflecting on their sweaty
cheeks and his eyes narrowed the sweet joy escaping from an innocent chest. And as lie intends
to play "the kite that dan - onion with the bread. "What a laugh! What merriment! The sleeping
forest resounds with silvery voices of those beautiful and gentle creatures! Tired of this game
spread for a moment. Some are group sitting at the foot of an oak tree trunk and counted in
low voice, as soft chirping thousand charming childish, others passionately delivered in search
of blue flowers and bouquets made with them placed on the chest, others pursued, like the swallows
in the air with piercing shrieks. Others, the more determined, devote their efforts to hunt
grasshoppers and other bugs fearful. But then turn to join because there is a very giddy girl who bets
to climb a tree if the help, and there other malignant says yes, she will help. Hands. He began the
spirited young called Consuelo, to put their feet upon the oak ridges more affordable. The
evil companion, which is nothing to Socorro, the third siren retired, holds. Climb at the end
of the first in the cross of two branches; rises after another, applauding nymphs and encourage
with shouts of enthusiasm ...

But behold, Rubio, the lieutenant of the third, a man attested to
their peers bold Gun and a devastating genius for females, it occurs
suddenly rear its bold head above a thicket.

The nymphs, seeing him, cry out and are petrified attitude in the surprise. Consuelo, from the top
of the tree, he apostrophizes violence. If your hand was immediately trasformaría deer that
new Actaeon. Here, for between ourselves, it is possible that a husband preferred to first transform it,
without prejudice go ahead on the classic metamorphosis ... But Rubio, the lieutenant of the third,
known well the value of these cries, and these apostrophes. Do not flinch, smile mischievously
and called hoarsely to their brothers in arms. What confusion, fear among those smiling daughters
of forests to approach their children in close column of Mars! No pick blankets, and gloves, and
umbrellas, anything short of what belonged flee and disband the forest screaming in terror. But
the red pants satyrs pursue them with a vengeance, are caught here and there and bring them captive
in the midst of hideous laughter. Meanwhile the poor Consuelo, and locked up the tree for
three of these sylvan voluptuous absolutely refuses to go down when not away at least fifty
yards. They Cruel! denied. Pray the nymph, irritated, is about to mourn, but not anger or get tears
soften the hardened heart of the infamous satyrs. Finally resigned to descend and, although it takes
many precautions castes, they fail to see a foot deliciously shoes and a leg birth makes them roar with
delight. But where is Rubio? Where is the most terrible and ferocious of them all? It is not
known, but long after leaving the woods dragging Socorro, the most sentimental of the sprites
of D. Cristobal. In the cruel features of his face is painted the expression of triumph, and
in hers shame and submission of a captive. Many hours later, the last of the night, sitting at a coffee
table and surrounded Marañón eight or ten of his colleagues, Lt. the third narrated with evil
smile expiration of the nymph, calculating at least in three or four who managed to steal kisses
in different places on his face sorcerer and all the sons of Mars cheered and celebrated with
this new triumph Homeric laughter of his heroic partner.

Finally, the winners were not too tyrants, and order was restored by the timely arrival of the
Miss de Mere, who were accompanied by Maria Josefa and Paco Gomez. The authors and solely
responsible for everything that had drawn the bottom of the chest. Carmelita Alepin wore a dress
of black silk that came to light only in large occasions, whereas Nuncita and therefore had fewer
years and respectability, could wear a suit clear with embroidered
flowers, as only seen in pictures of the last century.

Were happy eyes brimming with satisfaction, but the legs did not respond to that eternal youth
their hearts, walking paths relying on crutches and with his free hand holding the arms of
their escorts. They were received with cheers and hurrahs. It also heard some Family tired phrases,
such that no more than blessed to Meré indulged and laughed. That's why the teasing had little
merit. Ever there was a case of seeing them angry with friends, and that some slipped in together
until reaching quite a few times to rudeness. On the other hand were very prone to internal strife,
that is, to chafe each other, but we know how long these masses stopped.

The reckless spirit of Lieutenant Rubio, crowded by circumstances engendered an idea most happy,
to wit: that to better spend the time until dinner time to be constructed a swing, where the
ladies could enjoy the happiness of a few moments to shake off the diaphragm, and to provide
them knights gallantly moving the unit. Said and done: the search strings, a table saw, in less
than a quarter of an hour is all over. Rubio, while carrying out, it is still expressive wink
to his companions, including, smiling, silent, deeply admired, as
always, boldness and penetration of Lieutenant of the third.

Already tied the swing. Who is first? All show the same shame, her cheeks flushing same. One
would think wickedly propose Nuncita try it out. The others applaud the idea. Resists Nuncita
terrified. Carmelita or grant nor denies permission. Instances are repeated endlessly. The young
men find the idea increasingly original. Finally, almost by force, between the frantic applause
of the circle, Cuervo, the Herculean ensign of the first, lifted the girl in his arms and sits
on the table.

- Hold on tight, Nuncia! - Paco Gómez yells, while the lieutenant said, and some other friends
start rocking.

- Soft, soft! - Carmelita exclaims.

Do not worry, they do so because they fear to find her on the ground.

But even moving the swing sparingly, the air gets up, before long, the skirts of the old maid.
The officers laugh and push the swing to make it look more.

- Strong,
strong, that something is caught! - Paco Gómez yells.

  He was turning the corner of a street, and came suddenly on one of the groups
of discontented Flemings of whom I have spoken.  Some words were exchanged, when my gentleman
out with his sword, and with a slight but skilful cut drew blood from one of those who had
insulted him, as he fancied, though I was too far off to hear the words.  They would all have
fallen upon him had I not rushed forwards and raised the cry, then well known in Antwerp, of
rally, to the Austrian soldiers who were perpetually patrolling the streets, and who came in
numbers to the rescue.  I think that neither Mr. Gisborne nor the mutinous group of plebeians
owed me much gratitude for my interference.  He had planted himself against a wall, in a skilful
attitude of fence, ready with his bright glancing rapier to do battle with all the heavy, fierce,
unarmed men, some six or seven in number.  But when his own soldiers came up, he sheathed his
sword; and, giving some careless word of command, sent them away again, and continued his saunter
all alone down the street, the workmen snarling in his rear, and more than half-inclined to
fall on me for my cry for rescue.  I cared not if they did, my life seemed so dreary a burden
just then; and, perhaps, it was this daring loitering among them that prevented their attacking
me.  Instead, they suffered me to fall into conversation with them; and I heard some of their
grievances.  Sore and heavy to be borne were they, and no wonder the sufferers were savage
and desperate.

The man whom Gisborne had wounded across his face would fain have got out of me the name of
his aggressor, but I refused to tell it. Another of the group heard his inquiry, and made answer--"I
know the man.  He is one Gisborne, aide-de-camp to the General-Commandant.  I know him well."

He began to tell some story in connection with Gisborne in a low and muttering voice; and while
he was relating a tale, which I saw excited their evil blood, and which they evidently wished
me not to hear, I sauntered away and back to my lodgings.

That night Antwerp was in open revolt.  The inhabitants rose in rebellion against their Austrian
masters.  The Austrians, holding the gates of the city, remained at first pretty quiet in the
citadel; only, from time to time, the boom of the great cannon swept sullenly over the town.
But if they expected the disturbance to die away, and spend itself in a few hours' fury, they
were mistaken.  In a day or two, the rioters held possession of the principal municipal buildings.
Then the Austrians poured forth in bright flaming array, calm and smiling, as they marched
to the posts assigned, as if the fierce mob were no more to them then the swarms of buzzing
summer flies.  Their practised manoeuvres, their well-aimed shot, told with terrible effect;
but in the place of one slain rioter, three sprang up of his blood to avenge his loss.  But
a deadly foe, a ghastly ally of the Austrians, was at work.  Food, scarce and dear for months,
was now hardly to be obtained at any price.  Desperate efforts were being made to bring provisions
into the city, for the rioters had friends without.  Close to the city port, nearest to the
Scheldt, a great struggle took place.  I was there, helping the rioters, whose cause I had
adopted.  We had a savage encounter with the Austrians.  Numbers fell on both sides:  I saw
them lie bleeding for a moment:  then a volley of smoke obscured them; and when it cleared
away, they were dead--trampled upon or smothered, pressed down and hidden by the freshly-wounded
whom those last guns had brought low. Hush! ... Hush, child! - Said D. Bernardo, further furrowing the brow, which, indeed,
it seemed impossible.

- Come on Henry! - Dona Martina said, trying to restrain.

- Why not stick to Miguel who did more than I recontra? - Shouted
in fury.

- Come on Henry! - She cried Dona Martina .-- Let the party
in peace!

And he came to him and by putting the voice by ear, began to say:

- Do not you understand, fool, that Michael is not my son? ... If it were as you would hit ... But
you're older than him, and you are at home ... You ought to set an example ... Who would occur
but you those things, fool! ... You can stir yourself from this house and all of Madrid ... Is
that what the teacher teaches you in school?

Did I, gaznápiro, di? ...

He was holding his arm, and each of these sentences was accompanied
by a strong jolt.

When he had finished his invective, he left her crying in the corner
and went behind Eulalia who had climbed back to the room to ascertain
the number and kind of havoc executed there.

Meanwhile, D. Bernardo, a very bad mood, not so much by his son's mischief improprieties by
his wife, served soup to everyone at the table, filling also it's plate and his daughter away.
Upon arrival at Henry said in a peremptory tone:

- Kid, come sit at the table.

But Henry was Swedish and continued moaning and kicking at times.

- Child! - Shouted D. Bernardo stentorian voice .-- Come now sit at the table!

The boy raised his head and looking frightened father who was staring
him with a terrible expression of anger, began to walk and dragged
reluctantly to the table.

And perhaps it would have reached safely if he did not see the time appear the door to the
cause of the cuffs, Eulalia, who entered the room followed of his
mother.

See and feel possessed by insane rage was all one.

- Indecent! I have attached for you! I'll pay all together, recontra!

... I Te Nose trumpet break them! Metebaza! ... Fea! ... Feona! ... Chula! ...

At being insulted in this way could not help Eulalia jumped like a
beast on his brother, giving this spurt of hair, the wail of Henry,
to feel, did rise again afraid to present.

Dona Martina, that despite his antics had decided passion by him and that was half sorry for
having punished, outraged.

- Listen, fool! Who are you to beat your brother? Are not we here your father and I for that?
Wait, wait a bit, and I will humble myself down ...!

And he turned to his daughter with his hand up, this cautious young man had gone wrong not to
put in safe running around the table, Mrs. Martin could not catch it: at the same time, so
that Colonel Ojeda, sought to make peace.

D. Bernardo was so irritated with tosquedades his wife, who could not say or do nothing, continued
to sit staring at the plate while a swarm of thoughts dark and melancholy associated with their unequal
marriage, he seethed in the head.

Finally, they went slowly calming the spirits who were angry. Doña Martina left to pursue her daughter
and sat at the table, though muttering threats, it also sat looking askance at his mother,
D. Bernardo, making a prodigious effort of diplomacy to overcome its just despondency, fell
into conversation with the colonel. The only broken glass was paid miserly Henry: the authority
of the father and mother, in common agreement, decided to stay without
food, for insolence! But, as long as in Spain punishes a criminal,
no lack of commitment to continue to have the case married, the pleas
of Ojeda and Colonel managed to end that sentence was reduced only
deprivation dessert. And the good Henry (who must at least acknowledge
that in the midst of raging anger sacase not the shovel murderer who
was in the lining of the jacket) came to sit at the table with the
red cheeks of the cheeks, eyes and noses wet hair fallen over his
forehead. I was so horrible, that his cousin Miguel, pity heartily,
he felt a desire heinous laugh which, of course, tried to contain
by whatever means were within reach, biting his lips, looking at another
site, etc., etc. But he wanted her bad luck that Henry came to understand,
by the contraction of the face certainly, the desire that frolicked
in the body, and for that purpose began to throw a glaring, poisoned.
Michael then was no longer master of himself, and suddenly, in a moment
of silence, let the cloth of laughter, and with him by the mouth and
nose chorretazos the spoonful of soup she had just swallowed.  Over
against his bed were these words, copied in the English version "Therefore, if thine enemy
hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink."

Some of us gave him of our food, and left him eating greedily, like some famished wild animal.
For now it was no longer the sharp tinkle, but that one solemn toll, which in all Christian
countries tells of the passing of the spirit out of earthly life into eternity; and again a
murmur gathered and grew, as of many people speaking with awed breath, "A Poor Clare is dying!
a Poor Clare is dead!"

Borne along once more by the motion of the crowd, we were carried into the chapel belonging
to the Poor Clares.  On a bier before the high altar, lay a woman--lay Sister Magdalen--lay
Bridget Fitzgerald. By her side stood Father Bernard, in his robes of office, and holding the
crucifix on high while he pronounced the solemn absolution of the Church, as to one who had
newly confessed herself of deadly sin. You are dead because you have no memory and no
I remember. I, too, separated from him like you ripped it as their prime stem, devoid of life,
if my life were not his memory.

PRATYAPATY .-- And why not also the hope that return to him? 

Was meanwhile spreading across his face, pale, papery, an expression of intense joy, but so rapidly
that it seemed that gave them momentum gales buzzing among the rocks and thickets of the contour.


"She is freed from the curse!" said she, as she fell back dead.

