Nerved to renewed effort by thoughts like these, I toiled onward. All that day I walked without
a particle of nourishment. When I reached Highgate, it was eleven o'clock at night, but in
one house I saw a light, and I ventured to rap at the door. It was opened by a pale, but pleasant
looking woman. "Kind lady," said I, "will you please tell me how far it is to the States?"
"To the States!" she exclaimed, and in a moment she seemed to understand both my character
and situation. "You are now in Vermont State," said she, "but come in child, you look sad and
weary." I at once accepted her offer, and when she asked how far I was traveling, and how I
came to be out so late, I did not hesitate to reveal to her my secret, for I was sure she could
be trusted. She invited me to spend the remainder of the night, and gave me some refreshment.
She was nursing a sick woman, which accounted for her being up so late, but did not prevent
her from attending to all my wants, and making me as comfortable as possible. When she saw
that my feet were wounded, badly swollen, and covered with blood and dirt, she procured warm
water, and with her own hands bathed, and made them clean, with the best toilet soap. She expressed
great sympathy for the sad condition my feet were in, and asked if I had no shoes? I told her
that my shoes were made of cloth, and soon wore out; that what was left of them, I lost in
the mud, when traveling through the woods in the dark. She then procured a pair of nice woollen
stockings, and a pair of new shoes, some under clothes, and a good flannel skirt, which she
begged me to wear for her sake. I accepted them gratefully, but the shoes I could not wear,
my feet were so sore. She said I could take them with me, and she gave me a pair of Indian
moccasins to wear till my feet were healed. Angel of mercy that she was; may God's blessing
rest upon her for her kindness to the friendless wanderer.

The next morning the good lady urged me to stay with her, at least, for a time, and said I
should be welcome to a home there for the rest of my life. Grateful as I was for her offer,
I was forced to decline it, for I knew that I could not remain so near Montreal in safety.
She said the "select men" of the town would protect me, if they were made acquainted with my
peculiar situation. Dear lady! she little knew the character of a Romish priest! Her guileless
heart did not suspect the cunning artifice by which they accomplish whatever they undertake.
And those worthy "select men," I imagine, were not much better informed than herself. Sure
I am, that any protection they could offer me, would not, in the least degree, shield me from
the secret intrigue, the affectionate, maternal embrace of holy Mother Church.

When she found that, notwithstanding all her offers, I was resolved to go, she put into a basket,
a change of clothing, the shoes she had given me, and a good supply of food which she gave
me for future use. But the most acceptable part of her present was a sun-bonnet; for thus far
I had nothing on my head but the cap I wore in the convent. She gave me some money, and bade
me go to Swanton, and there, she said, I could take the cars. I accordingly bade her farewell,
and, basket in hand, directed my steps toward the depot some seven miles distant, as I was
informed; but I thought it a long seven miles, as I passed over it with my sore feet, the blood
starting at every step.

On my arrival at the depot, a man came to me, and asked where I wished to go. I told him I
wished to go as far into the State as my money would carry me. He procured me a ticket, and
said it would take me to St. Albans. He asked me where I came from, but I begged to be excused
from answering questions. He then conducted me to the ladies room, and left me, saying the
cars would be along in about an hour.

In this room, several ladies were waiting to take the cars. As I walked across the room, one
of them said, in a tone that grated harshly on my feelings, "Your skirt is below your dress."
I did not feel very good natured, and instead of saying "thank you," as I should have done,
I replied in the most impudent manner, "Well, it is clean, if it is in sight." The lady said
no more, and I sat down upon a sofa and fell asleep. As I awoke, one of the ladies said, "I
wonder who that poor girl is!" I was bewildered, and, for the moment, could not think where
I was, but I thought I must make some reply, and rousing myself I turned to her, and said,
"I am a nun, if you wish to know, and I have just escaped from a convent." She gave me a searching
look, and said, "Well, I must confess you do look like one. I often visit in Montreal where
I see a great many of them, and they always look poor and pale. Will you allow me to ask you
a few questions?" By this time, I was wide awake, and realized perfectly where I was, and the
folly of making such an imprudent disclosure. I would have given much to recall those few words,
for I had a kind of presentiment that they would bring me trouble. I begged to be excused from
answering any questions, as I was almost crazy with thinking of the past and did not wish to
speak of it.

The lady said no more for some time, but she kept her eye upon me, in a way that I did not
like; and I began to consider whether I had better wait for the cars, or start on foot. I was
sorry for my imprudence, but it could not be helped now, and I must do the best I could to
avoid the unpleasant consequences which might result from it. I had just made up my mind to
go on, when I heard in the far distance, the shrill whistle of the approaching train; that
train which I fondly hoped would bear me far away from danger, and onward to the goal of my
desires.

At this moment, the lady crossed the room, and seating herself by my side, asked, "Would you
not like to go and live with me? I have one waiting maid now, but I wish for another, and if
you will go, I will take you and give you good wages. Your work will not be hard; will you
go?" "Where do you go?" I asked. "To Montreal," she replied. "Then I shall not go with you,"
said I. "No money could induce me to return there again." "Ah!" said she, with a peculiar smile,
"I see how it is, but you need not fear to trust me. I will protect you, and never suffer you
to be taken back to the convent." I saw that I had made unconsciously another imprudent revelation,
and resolved to say no more. I was about to leave her, but she drew me back saying, "I will
give you some of my clothes, and I can make them fit you so well that no one will ever recognize
you. I shall have plenty of time to alter them if they require it, for the train that I go
in, will not he along for about three hours; you can help me, and in that time we will get
you nicely fixed."

I could hardly repress a smile when I saw how earnest she was, and I thought it a great pity
that a plan so nicely laid out should be so suddenly deranged, but I could not listen to her
flatteries. I suspected that she was herself in the employ of the priests, and merely wished
to get me back that she might betray me. She had the appearance of being very wealthy, was
richly clad, wore a gold watch, chain, bracelets, breastpin, ear rings, and many finger rings,
all of the finest gold. But with all her wealth and kind offers, I dare not trust her. I thought
she looked annoyed when I refused to go with her, but when I rose to go to the cars, a look
of angry impatience stole over, her fine features, which convinced me that I had escaped a snare.

The cars came at length, and I was soon on my way to St. Albans. I was very sick, and asked
a gentleman near me to raise the windows. He did so, and inquired how far I was going. I informed
him, when he remarked that he was somewhat acquainted in St. Albans, and asked with whom I
designed to stop. I told him I had no friends or acquaintance in the place, but I hoped to
get employment in some protestant family. He said he could direct me to some gentlemen who
would, he thought, assist me. One in particular, he mentioned as being a very wealthy man,
and kept a number of servants; perhaps he would employ me.

This gentleman's name was Branard, and my informant spoke so highly of the family, I immediately
sought them out on leaving the cars, and was at once employed by Mrs. Branard, as a seamstress.
Here I found a quiet, happy home. Mrs. Branard was a kind sympathizing woman, and to her, I
confided the history of my convent life. She would not allow me to work hard, for she saw that
my nerves were easily excited. She made me sit with her in her own room a great part of the
time, and did not wish me to go out alone. They had several boarders in the family, and one
of them was a brother-in-law [Footnote: This gentleman was Mr. Z. K. Pangborn, late editor
of the Worcester Daily Transcript. Both Mr. and Mrs. Pangborn give their testimony of the truth
of this statement.] to Mrs. Branard. His name I have forgotten; it was not a common name, but
he married Mrs. Branard's sister, and with his wife resided there all the time that I was with
them. Mr. Branard was away from home most of the time, so that I saw but little of him. They
had an Irish girl in the kitchen, named Betsy. She was a kind, pleasant girl, and she thought
me a strict Romanist because I said my prayers so often, and wore the Holy Scapulary round
my neck. This Scapulary is a band with a cross on one side, and on the other, the letters "J.
H. S." which signify, "Jesus The Savior of Man."

At this place I professed great regard for the Church of Rome, and no one but Mrs. Branard
was acquainted with my real character and history. When they asked my name, I told them they
could call me Margaret, but it was an assumed name. My own, for reasons known only by myself,
I did not choose to reveal. I supposed, of course, they would regard me with suspicion for
a while, but I saw nothing of the kind. They treated me with great respect, and no questions
were ever asked. Perhaps I did wrong in changing my name, but I felt that I was justified in
using any means to preserve my liberty.

CHAPTER XXIII.

FLIGHT AND RECAPTURE.

Four happy weeks I enjoyed unalloyed satisfaction in the bosom of this charming family. It
was a new thing for me to feel at home, contented, and undisturbed; to have every one around
me treat me with kindness and even affection. I sometimes feared it was too good to last. Mrs.
Branard in particular, I shall ever remember with grateful and affectionate regard. She was
more like a mother to me, than a mistress, and I shall ever look back to the time I spent with
her, as a bright spot in the otherwise barren desert of my life. Better, far better would it
have been for me had I never left her. But I became alarmed, and thought the convent people
were after me. It was no idle whim, no imaginary terror. I had good cause to fear, for I had
several times seen a priest go past, and gaze attentively at the house. I knew him at the first
glance, having often seen him in Montreal.

Then my heart told me that they had traced me to this place, and were now watching a chance
to get hold of me. Imagine, if you can, my feelings. Had I suffered so much in vain? Would
they be allowed to take me back to those fearful cells, where no ray of mercy could ever reach
me? I could not endure the thought. Frightened, and almost beside myself, I resolved to make
an effort to find a more secure place. I therefore left those kind friends in the darkness
of night, without one word of farewell, and without their knowledge. I knew they would not
allow me to go, if they were apprised of my design. In all probability, they would have ridiculed
my fears, and bade me rest in peace. How could I expect them to comprehend my danger, when
they knew so little of the machination of my foes? I intended to go further into the state,
but did not wish to have any one know which way I had gone. It was a sad mistake, but how often
in this world do we plunge into danger when we seek to avoid it! How often fancy ourselves
in security when we stand upon the very brink of ruin!

I left Mr. Branard's in the evening, and called upon a family in the neighborhood whose acquaintance
I had made, and whom I wished to see once more, though I dared not say farewell. I left them
between the hours of nine and ten, and set forward on my perilous journey. I had gone but a
short distance when I heard the sound of wheels and the heavy tread of horses' feet behind
me. My heart beat with such violence it almost stopped my breath, for I felt that they were
after me. But there was no escape-- no forest or shelter near where I could seek protection.
On came the furious beasts, driven by no gentle hand. They came up with me, and I almost began
to hope that my fears were groundless, when the horses suddenly stopped, a strong hand grasped
me, a gag was thrust into my mouth, and again the well-known box was taken from the wagon.
Another moment and I was securely caged, and on my way back to Montreal. Two men were in the
wagon and two rode on horseback beside it. Four men to guard one poor nun!

They drove to Mt. Bly, where they stopped to change horses, and the two men on horseback remained
there, while the other two mounted the wagon and drove to Sorel. Here the box was taken out
and carried on board a boat, where two priests were waiting for me. When the boat started,
they took me out for the first time after I was put into it at St. Albans. Three days we had
been on the way, and I had tasted neither food nor drink. How little did I think when I took
my tea at Mr. Branard's the night I left that it was the last refreshment I would have for
SEVEN DAYS; yet such was the fact. And how little did they think, as they lay in their quiet
beds that night, that the poor fugitive they had taken to their home was fleeing for life,
or for that which, to her, was better than life. Yet so it was. Bitterly did I reproach myself
for leaving those kind friends as I did, for I thought perhaps if I had remained there, they
would not have dared to touch me. Such were my feelings then; but as I now look back, I can
see that it would have made little difference whether I left or remained. They were bound to
get me, at all events, and if I had stopped there until they despaired of catching me secretly,
they would undoubtedly have come with an officer, and accused me of some crime, as a pretext
for taking me away. Then, had any one been so far interested for me as to insist on my having
a fair trial, how easy for them to produce witnesses enough to condemn me! Those priests have
many ways to accomplish their designs. The American people don't know them yet; God grant they
never may.

On my arrival at the nunnery I was taken down the coal grate, and fastened to an iron ring
in the back part of a cell. The Archbishop then came down and read my punishment. Notwithstanding
the bitter grief that oppressed my spirit, I could not repress a smile of contempt as the great
man entered my cell. I remembered that before I ran away, my punishments were assigned by a
priest, but the first time I fled from them a Bishop condescended to read my sentence, and
now his honor the Archbishop graciously deigned to illume my dismal cell with the light of
his countenance, and his own august lips pronounced the words of doom. Was I rising in their
esteem, or did they think to frighten me into obedience by the grandeur of his majestic mien?

Such were my thoughts as this illustrious personage proceeded slowly, and with suitable dignity,
to unroll the document that would decide my fate. What would it be? Death? It might be for
aught I knew, or cared to know. I had by this time become perfectly reckless, and the whole
proceeding seemed so ridiculous, I found it exceedingly difficult to maintain a demeanor sufficiently
solemn for the occasion. But when the fixed decree came forth, when the sentence fell upon
my ear that condemned me to SEVEN DAYS' STARVATION, it sobered me at once. Yet even then the
feeling of indignation was so strong within me, I could not hold my peace. I would speak to
that man, if he killed me for it. Looking him full in the face (which, by the way, I knew was
considered by him a great crime), I asked, "Do you ever expect to die?" I did not, of course,
expect an answer, but he replied, with a smile, "Yes; but you will die first" He then asked
how long I had fasted, and I replied, "Three days." He said, "You will fast four days more,
and you will be punished every day until next December, when you will take the black veil."
As he was leaving the room, he remarked, "We do not usually have the nuns take the black veil
until they are twenty-one; but you have such good luck in getting away, we mean to put you
where you can't do it." And with this consoling thought he left me--left me in darkness and
despair, to combat, as best I could, the horrors of starvation. This was in the early part
of winter, and only about a year would transpire before I entered that retreat from which none
ever returned. And then to be punished every day for a year! What a prospect! The priest came
every morning, with his dark lantern, to look at me; but he never spoke. On the second day
after my return, I told him if he would bring me a little piece of bread, I would never attempt
to run away again, but would serve him faithfully the rest of my life. Had he given it to me,
I would have faithfully kept my word; but he did not notice me, and closing the door, he left
me once more to pass through all the agonies of starvation. I remember nothing after that day.
Whether I remained in the cell the other two days, or was taken out before the time expired,
I do not know. This much, however, I do know, as a general rule a nun's punishment is never
remitted. If she lives, it is well; if she dies, no matter; there are enough more, and no one
will ever call them to an account for the murder.

But methinks I hear the reader ask, "Did they not fear the judgment of God and a future retribution?"
In reply I can only state what I believe to be the fact. It is my firm belief that not more
than one priest in ten thousand really believes in the truth of Christianity, or even in the
existence of a God. They are all Infidels or Atheists; and how can they be otherwise? It is
the legitimate fruit of that system of deceit which they call religion. Of course I only give
this as my opinion, founded on what I have seen and heard. You can take it, reader, for what
it is worth; believe it or not, just us you please; but I assure you I have often heard the
nuns say that they did not believe in any religion. The professions of holiness of heart and
parity of life so often made by the priests they KNOW to be nothing but a hypocritical pretence,
and their ceremonies they regard as a ridiculous farce.

For some time after I was taken from the cell I lay in a state of partial unconsciousness,
but how long, I do not know. I have no recollection of being taken up stairs, but I found myself
on my bed, in my old room, and on the stand beside me were several cups, vials, etc. The Abbess
who sat beside me, occasionally gave me a tea-spoonful of wine or brandy, and tried to make
me eat. Ere long, my appetite returned, but it was several weeks before my stomach was strong
enough to enable me to satisfy in any degree, the cravings of hunger. When I could eat, I gained
very fast, and the Abbess left me in the care of a nun, who came in occasionally to see if
I wanted anything. This nun often stopped to talk with me, when she thought no one was near,
and expressed great curiosity to know what I saw in the world; if people were kind to me, and
if I did not mean to get away again, if possible, I told her I should not; but she replied,
"I don't believe that. You will try again, and you will succeed yet, if you keep up good courage.
You are so good to work, they do not wish to part with you, and that is one reason why they
try so hard to get you back again. But never mind, they won't get you next time." I assured
her I should not try to escape again, for they were sure to catch me, and as they had almost
killed me this time, they would quite the next. I did not dare to trust her, for I supposed
the Superior had given her orders to question me.

I was still weak, so weak that I could hardly walk when they obliged me to go into the kitchen
to clean vegetables and do other light work, and as soon as I had sufficient strength, to milk
the cows, and take the care of the milk. They punished me every day, in accordance with the
Bishop's order, and sometimes, I thought, more than he intended. I wore thorns on my head,
and peas in my shoes, was whipped and pinched, burnt with hot irons, and made to crawl through
the underground passage I have before described. In short, I was tortured and punished in every
possible way, until I was weary of my life. Still they were careful not to go so far as to
disable me from work. They did not care how much I suffered, if I only performed my daily task.

There was an underground passage leading from the nunnery to a place which they called, "Providence,"
in the south part of the city. I do not know whether it is a school, or a convent, or what
it is, but I think it must be some distance, from what I heard said about it. The priest often
spoke of sending me there, but for some reason, he did not make me go. Still the frequent reference
to what I so much dreaded, kept me in constant apprehension and alarm. I have heard the priest
say that underground passages extended from the convent in every direction, for a distance
of five miles; and I have reason to believe the statement is true. But these reasons I may
not attempt to give. There are things that may not even be alluded to, and if it were possible
to speak of them, who would believe the story?

CHAPTER XXIV.

RESOLVES TO ESCAPE.

As summer approached, I expected to be sent to the farm again, but for some reason I was still
employed in the kitchen. Yet I could not keep my mind upon my work. The one great object of
my life; the subject that continually pressed upon my mind was the momentous question, how
shall I escape? The dreaded December was rapidly approaching. To some it would bring a joyous
festival, but to me, the black veil and a life long imprisonment. Once within those dreary
walls, and I might as well hope to escape from the grave. Such are the arrangements, there
is no chance for a nun to escape unless she is promoted to the office of Abbess or Superior.
Of course, but few of them can hope for this, especially, if they are not contented; and certainly,
in my case there was not the least reason to expect anything of the kind. Knowing these facts,
with the horrors of the Secret Cloister ever before me, I felt some days as though on the verge
of madness. Before the nuns take the black veil, and enter this tomb for the living, they are
put into a room by themselves, called the forbidden closet, where they spend six months in
studying the Black Book. Perchance, the reader will remember that when I first came to this
nunnery, I was taken by the door-tender to this forbidden closet, and permitted to look in
upon the wretched inmates. From that time I always had the greatest horror of that room. I
was never allowed to enter it, and in fact never wished to do so, but I have heard the most
agonizing groans from those within, and sometimes I have heard them laugh. Not a natural, hearty
laugh, however, such as we hear from the gay and happy, but a strange, terrible, sound which
I cannot describe, and which sent a thrill of terror through my frame, and seemed to chill
the very blood in my veins.

I have heard the priests say, when conversing with each other, while I was tidying their room,
that many of these nuns lose their reason while studying the Black Book. I can well believe
this, for never in my life did I ever witness an expression of such unspeakable, unmitigated
anguish, such helpless and utter despair as I saw upon the faces of those nuns. And well they
may despair. Kept under lock and key, their windows barred, and no air admitted to the room
except what comes through the iron grate of their windows from other apartments; compelled
to study, I know not what; with no hope of the least mitigation of their sufferings, or relaxation
of the stringent rules that bind them; no prospect before them but a life-long imprisonment;
what have they to hope for? Surely, death and the grave are the only things to which they can
look forward with the least degree of satisfaction.

Those nuns selected for this Secret Cloister are generally the fairest, the most beautiful
of the whole number. I used to see them in the chapel, and some of them were very handsome.
They dressed like the other nuns, and always looked sad and broken hearted, but were not pale
and thin like the rest of us. I am sure they were not kept upon short allowance as the others
were, and starvation was not one of their punishments, whatever else they might endure. The
plain looking girls were always selected to work in the kitchen, and do the drudgery about
the house. How often have I thanked God for my plain face! But for that, I might not have been
kept in the kitchen so long, and thus found means to escape which I certainly could not have
found elsewhere.

With all my watching, and planning I did not find an opportunity to get away till June. I then,
succeeded in getting outside the convent yard one evening between eight and nine o'clock. How
I got there, is a secret I shall never reveal. A few yards from the gate I was stopped by one
of the guard at the Barrack, who asked where I was going. "To visit a sick woman," I promptly
replied, and he let me pass. Soon after this, before my heart ceased to flutter, I thought
I heard some one running after me. My resolution was at once taken. I would never be caught
and carried back alive. My fate was at last, I thought, in my own hands. Better die at once
than to be chained like a guilty criminal, and suffer as I had done before. Blame me not gentle
reader, when I tell you that I stood upon the bank of the river with exultant joy; and, as
I pursued my way along the tow-path, ready to spring into the water on the first indication
of danger, I rejoiced over the disappointment of my pursuers in losing a servant who had done
them so good service. At a little distance I saw a ferry boat, but when I asked the captain
to carry me over the river, he refused. He was, probably, afraid of the police and a fine,
for no one can assist a run-away nun with impunity, if caught in the act. He directed me, however,
to the owner of the boat, who said I could go if the captain was willing to carry me. I knew
very well that he would not, and I took my place in the boat as though I had a perfect right to it.

We were almost across the river, when the captain saw me, and gave orders to turn back the
boat, and leave me on the shore from whence we started. From his appearance I thought we were
pursued, and I was not mistaken. Five priests were following us in another boat, and they too,
turned back, and reached the shore almost as soon as we did. I left the boat and ran for my
life. I was now sure that I was pursued; there could be no doubt of that, for the sound of
footsteps behind me came distinct to my ear. At a little distance stood a small, white house.
Could I not reach it? Would not the people protect me? The thought gave me courage, and I renewed
my efforts. Nearer came the footsteps, but I reached the house, and without knocking, or asking
permission, I sprang through the door.

The people were in bed, in another room, but a man looked out, and asked what I wanted. "I'm
a nun," said I. "I've run away from the Grey Nunnery, and they're after me. Hide me, O hide
me, and God will bless you!" As I spoke he put out his hand and opened the cellar door. "Here,"
said he, "run down cellar, I'll be with you in a moment." I obeyed, and he struck a light and
followed. Pointing to a place where he kept ashes, he said hastily, "Crawl in there." There
was not a moment to lose, for before he had covered up my hiding place, a loud knock was heard
upon the front door. Having extinguished his light, he ran up stairs, and opened the door with
the appearance of having just left his bed. "Who is here?" he asked, "and what do you want
this time of night?" One of them replied, "We are in search of a nun, and are very sure she
came in here?" "Well gentlemen," said he, "walk in, and see for yourselves. If she is here,
you are at liberty to find her." Lighting a candle, he proceeded to guide them over the house,
which they searched until they were satisfied. They then came down cellar, and I gave up all
hope of escape. Still, I resolved never to be taken alive. I could strangle myself, and I would
do it, rather than suffer as I did before. At that moment I could truly say with the inspired
penman, with whose language I have since become familiar, "my soul chooseth strangling and
death rather than life."

They looked all around me, and even into the place where I lay concealed, but they did not
find me. At length I heard them depart, and so great was my joy, I could hardly restrain my
feelings within the bounds of decorum. I felt as though I must dance and sing, shout aloud
or leap for joy at my great deliverance. I am sure I should have committed some extravagant
act had not the gentleman at that moment called me up, and told me that my danger was by no
means past. This information so dashed my cup of bliss that I was able to drink it quietly.

He gave me some refreshment, and as soon as safety would permit, saddled his horse, and taking
me on behind him, carried me six miles to another boat, put me on board, and paid the captain
three dollars to carry me to Laprairie. On leaving me, he gave me twenty-five cents, and said,
"you'll be caught if you go with the other passengers." The captain said he could hide me and
no one know that I was on board, but himself. He led me to the end of the boat, and put me
upon a board over the horses. He fixed a strong cord for me to hold on by, and said, "you must
be careful and not fall down, for the horses would certainly kill you before you could be taken
out." The captain was very kind to me and when I left him, gave me twenty-five cents, and some
good advice. He said I must hurry along as fast as possible, for it was Jubilee, and the priests
would all be in church at four o'clock. He also advised me not to stop in any place where a
Romish priest resided, "for," said he, "the convent people have, undoubtedly, telegraphed all
over the country giving a minute description of your person, and the priests will all be looking
for you."

Two days I travelled as fast as my strength would allow, when I came to Sorel, which was on
the other side of the river. Here I saw several priests on the road coming directly towards
me. That they were after me, I had not a doubt. Whither should I flee? To escape by running,
was out of the question, but just at that moment my eye fell upon a boat near the shore. I
ran to the captain, and asked him to take me across the river. He consented, and, as I expected,
the priests took another boat and followed us. Once more I gave myself up for lost, and prepared
to spring into the water, if they were likely to overtake me. The man understood my feelings,
and exerted all his strength to urge forward the boat. At last it reached the shore, and as
he helped me out he whispered, "Now run." I did run, but though my own liberty was at stake
I could not help thinking about the consequences to that man if I escaped, for I knew they
would make him pay a heavy fine for his benevolent act. A large house stood in my way, and
throwing open the door I exclaimed, "Are there any protestants here?" "O, yes," replied a man
who sat there, "come with me." He led me to the kitchen, where a large company of Irish men
were rolling little balls on a table. I saw the men were Irish and my first thought was, "I
am betrayed."

But my fears were soon relieved, for the man exclaimed, "Here is a nun, inquiring for protestants."
"Well," replied one who seemed to be a leader, "this is the right place to find them. We are
all true Orange men." And then they all began to shout, "Down with the Catholics! Down with
the Pope! Death to the Jesuits! etc." I was frightened at their violence, but their leader
came to me, and with the kindness of a brother, said, "Do not fear us. If you are a run-away,
we will protect you." He bade the men be still and asked if any one was after me. I told him
about the priests, and he replied, "you have come to the right place for protection, for they
dare not show themselves here. I am the leader of a band of Anti-Catholics, and this is their
lodge. You have heard of us, I presume; we are called Orange men. Our object is, to overthrow
the Roman Catholic religion, and we are bound by the most fearful oaths to stand by each other,
and protect all who seek our aid. The priests dread our influence, for we have many members,
and I hope ere long, the power of the Pope in this country will be at an end. I am sure people
must see what a cruel, hypocritical set they are."

Before he had done speaking, a man came to the door and said, "The carriage is ready." Another
of the men, on hearing this, said, "Come with me, and I'll take you out of the reach of the
priests." He conducted me to a carriage, which was covered and the curtains all fastened down.
He helped me into it, directing me to sit upon the back seat, where I could not be seen by
any one unless they took particular pains. He drove to St. Oars that night, and, if I remember
right, he said the distance was twelve miles. When, he left me he gave me twenty-five cents.
I travelled all night, and about midnight passed through St. Dennis, But I did not stop until
the next morning, when I called at a house and asked for something to eat. The lady gave me
some bread and milk, and I again pursued my way.

CHAPTER XXV.

EVENTFUL JOURNEY.

Once more I had the good fortune to obtain a passage across the river in a ferry-boat, and
was soon pressing onward upon the other side. Passing through two places called St. Mary's
and St. John's, I followed the railroad to a village which I was informed was called Stotsville,
[Footnote: I beg leave once more to remind the reader that it is by no means certain that I
give these names correctly. Hearing them pronounced, with no idea of ever referring to them
again, it is not strange that mistakes of this kind should occur.] a great part of the property
being owned by a Mr. Stots, to whom I was at once directed. Here I stopped, and was kindly
received by the gentleman and his wife. They offered me refreshments, gave me some articles
of clothing, and then he carried me twelve miles, and left me at Rouse's Point, to take the
cars for Albany. He gave me six dollars to pay my expenses, and a letter of introduction to
a gentleman by the name of Williams, in which he stated all the facts he knew concerning me,
and commended me to his care for protection. I think he said Mr. Williams lived on North Pearl
street, but I may be mistaken in this and also in some other particulars. As I had no thought
of relating these facts at the time of their occurrence, I did not fix them in my mind as I
otherwise should have done.

Mr. Stots said that if I could not find the gentleman to whom the letter was directed, I was
to take it to the city authorities, and they would protect me. As he assisted me from the carriage
he said, "You will stop here until the cars come along, and you must get your own ticket. I
shall not notice you again, and I do not wish you to speak to me." I entered the depot intending
to follow his directions; but when I found the cars would not come along for three hours, I
did not dare to stay. There was quite a large collection of people there, and I feared that
some one would suspect and stop me. I therefore resolved to follow the railroad, and walk on
to the next station. On my way I passed over a railroad bridge, which I should think was two
miles long. The wind blew very hard at the time, and I found it exceedingly difficult to walk
upon the narrow timbers. More than once I came near losing my precarious footing, and I was
in constant fear that the train would overtake me before I got over. In that case I had resolved
to step outside the track where I thought I could stand upon the edge of the bridge and hold
on by the telegraph poles, and thus let them pass without doing me injury. Happily, however,
I was not compelled to resort to this perilous expedient, but passed the bridge in safety.
At the end I found another nearly as long, connected with it by a drawbridge. When I drew near
it was up for a boat to pass; but a man called to me, and asked if I wish to go over. I told
him I did, and he let down the bridge. As I approached him he asked, "Are you mad? or how came
you here?" I told him I had walked from the depot at Rouse's Point. He appeared greatly surprised,
and said, "You are the first person who ever walked over that bridge. Will you come to my house
and rest awhile? You must be very weary, and my wife will be glad to see you. She is rather
lonely here, and is pleased to see any one. Will you come? 'Tis only a short distance, just
down under the bridge." Those last words decided me. I thanked him, but firmly refused to go
one step out of my way. I thought that he wished to deceive me, perhaps take me to some out-of-the-way
place, and give me up to my pursuers. At all events, it was wise not to trust him, for I was
sure there was no house near the bridge, certainly not under it. I have since learned that
such is the fact. As I turned to leave him, he again urged me to stop, and said, "The cars
will soon be along, and they will run over you. How do you expect to get out of their way?"
I told him I would risk it, and left him. I passed on in safety, and soon came to the depot,
where I took the evening train for Albany. At eight the same evening I left the cars, and walked
on towards Troy, which I think was four miles distant. Here I met a lad, of whom I inquired
the way to Albany. "You cannot get there to-night," said he, "and I advise you not to try."
When he saw that I was determined to go on, he said I would pass a tavern called the half-way
house, and if I was tired I could stop there. It was about eleven o'clock when I passed this
house, There were several persons on the piazza, laughing, talking, and singing, who called
me as I passed, shouted after me, and bade me stop. Exceedingly frightened, I ran with all
possible speed, but they continued to call after me till I was out of hearing. Seeing a light
at a house near by, I ventured to rap on the door. It was opened by a woman, who asked me to
walk in. I inquired the distance to Albany. She informed me, but said, "You can't go there
to-night." I told her I must, "Well," said she, "if you will go, the watch will take care of
you when you get there." She then asked, "Were those men calling after you?" I told her I supposed
they were, when she replied, with a peculiar smile, "I guess you can't be a very nice kind
of girl, or you wouldn't be on the street this time of night." My feelings were so deeply wounded
I could hardly restrain my tears at this cruel insinuation; but pride came to my aid, and,
choking down the rising emotion, I replied as carelessly as possible, "I must do as I can,
and not as I would."

It was about one o'clock at night when I entered the principal street in Albany, and, as the
lady predicted, a watchman came to me and asked why I was out that time of night. I gave him
Mr. Stot's letter. He stood beside a lamp-post and read it, when he seemed satisfied, and said,
"I know the man; come with me and I'll take you to his house." I followed him a long way, till
at last he stopped before a large house, and rang the bell. Mr. Williams came to the door,
and asked what was wanted. The watchman gave him the letter. He read it, and invited me to
stop. His wife got up, received me very kindly, and gave me some supper, for which I was truly
grateful. Nor was I less thankful for the delicate consideration with which they avoided any
allusion to my convent life, or my subsequent flight and suffering. Mrs. Williams saw that
I was sad and weary, and as she conducted me to a comfortable bed, she remarked, "You are safe
at last, and I am glad of it. You can now retire without the apprehension of danger, and sleep
in perfect security. You are with friends who will protect you as long as you choose to remain
with us."

Notwithstanding the good lady's assurance of safety, I found it impossible to close my eyes.
I was among strangers, in a strange place, and, having been so often deceived, might I not
be again? Perhaps, after all their pretended kindness, they were plotting to betray me. A few
days, however, convinced me that I had at last found real friends, who would protect me in
the hour of danger to the utmost of their ability.

I remained here some four weeks, and should have remained longer, but an incident transpired
that awakened all my fears, and again sent me forth into the wide world, a fugitive, and a
wanderer. I went to my chamber one night, when I heard a sound like the full, heavy respiration
of a man in deep sleep. The sound appeared to come from under the bed, but stopped as I entered
the room. I was very much alarmed, but I controlled my feelings, and instead of running shrieking
from the room, I deliberately closed the blinds, shut the windows, adjusted the curtain, all
the time carelessly humming a tune, and taking up my lamp I slowly left the room. Once outside
the door, I ran in all haste to Mr. Williams, and told him what I had heard. He laughed at
me, said it was all imagination, but, to quiet my fears, he went to my room resolved to convince
me that no one was there. I followed, and stood at the door while he lifted the bed valance,
when a large, tall man sprang forth, and caught him with one hand while with the other he drew
a pistol from beneath his coat saying, "Let me go, and I'll depart in peace; but attempt to
detain me, and I'll blow your brains out." I shrieked, and Mrs. Williams came in great terror
and consternation, to see what was the matter. But she could render no assistance, and Mr.
Williams, being unarmed, was obliged to let him go. The watch were immediately called, and
they sought for the intruder in every direction. No effort was spared to find him, that we
might, at least, learn the object of this untimely visit. But the search was all in vain. No
trace of his whereabouts could be discovered.

Mr. Williams said he did not believe it was me he sought. He thought the object was robbery,
and perhaps arson and murder, but he would not think that I was in the least danger. "The man,"
he said, "in hastily concealing himself had taken the first hiding place he could find." Yet
I thought otherwise. Indeed, so sure was I that he was an agent of the priests, sent forth
for the express purpose of arresting me, no earthly consideration would have induced me to
remain there another day. The rest of that night I spent in a state of anxiety I cannot describe.
Sleep fled from my eyes. I dared not even undress and go to bed, but I sat in my chair, or
walked the room every moment expecting the return of the mysterious visitor. I shuddered at
every sound, whether real or imaginary. Once in particular, I remember, the distant roll of
carriage wheels fell upon my ear. I listened; it came near, and still nearer, till at last
it stopped, as I thought, at the gate. For a moment I stood literally stupified with terror,
and then I hastily prepared to use the means for self destruction I had already provided in
anticipation of such an emergency. I was still resolved never to be taken alive. "Give me liberty
or give me death," was now the language of my soul. If I could not enjoy the one, I would cordially
embrace the other. But it was a sad alternative after all I had suffered that I might be free,
after all my buoyant hopes, all my ardent aspirations for a better life. O, it was a bitter
thing, thus to stand in the darkness of night, and with my own hand carefully adjust the cord
that was to cut me off from the land of the living, and in a moment launch my trembling soul
into the vast, unknown, untried, and fearful future, that men call eternity! Was this to be
the only use I was to make of liberty? Was it for this I had so long struggled, toiled, wept
and prayed? "God of mercy," I cried, "save, O save me from this last great sin! From the sad
and dire necessity which thus urges me to cut short a life which thou alone canst give!" My
prayer was heard; but how slowly passed the hours of that weary night while I waited for the
day that I might "hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest." Truly, at that time I
could say with one of old, "Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath overwhelmed
me. My heart is sore pained within me, and the terrors of death are fallen upon me. Oh that
I had the wings of a dove, for then would I flee away, and be at rest."

But alas! I had not the wings of a dove, and whither should I flee from the furious grasp of
my relentless persecutors? Again I must go forth into the "busy haunts of men," I must mingle
with the multitude, and what chance had I for ultimate escape? If I left these kind friends,
and leave them I must, who would take me in? In whom could I confide? Who would have the power
to rescue me in my hour of need? In God alone could I trust, yet why is he so far from helping
me? Why are my prayers so long unanswered? And why does he thus allow the wicked to triumph;
to lay snares for the feet of the innocent, and wrongfully persecute those whom their wanton
cruelty hath caused to sit in darkness and in the shadow of death? Why does he not at once
"break the bands of iron, and let the oppressed go free?"

The tedious night at length passed away. When I met Mr. Williams in the morning, I told him
I could no longer remain with him, for I was sure if I did, I should be suddenly arrested in
some unguarded moment, and carried back to Montreal. He urged me to stay, assured me he would
never allow them to take me, said that he thought some of going south, and I could go with
him, and thus be removed far from all whom I feared. Mrs. Williams, also, strove to persuade
me to stay. But, though sorry to appear ungrateful, I dared not remain another night where
I felt that my danger was so great.

When they found that I was determined to go, Mr. Williams said I had better go to Worcester,
Mass., and try to get employment in some farmer's family, a little out of the city. He gave
me money to bear my expenses, until I found a place where I could earn my living. It was with
a sad heart that I left this hospitable roof, and as I turned away I said in my heart, "Shall
I always be hunted through the world in this manner, obliged to flee like a guilty thing, and
shall I never find a home of happiness and peace? Must sorrow and despair forever be the portion
of my cup?" But no words of mine can describe what I felt at that moment. I longed for the
power to sound a warning through the length and breadth of the land, to cry in the ears of
all the people, "Beware of Romanism!" Like the patient man of Uz, with whose history I have
since become familiar, I was ready to exclaim, "O that my words were now written! O that they
were printed in a book! Graven with an iron pen," that the whole world might know what a fearful
and bitter thing it is to be a nun! To be subject to the control of those ruthless tyrants,
the Romish Priests.

Once more I entered the depot, and mingled with the crowd around the ticket office. But no
pen can describe my terror when I found myself the object of particular attention. I heard
people remark about my strange and unnatural appearance, and I feared I might be taken up for
a crazy person, if not for a nun. Thinking that I saw an enemy in every face, and a pursuer
in every one who came near me, I hastened to take refuge in the cars. There I waited with the
greatest impatience for the starting of the train. Slowly the cars were filled; very leisurely
the passengers sought their seats, while I sat trembling in every limb, and the cold perspiration
starting from every pore. How carefully I scanned every face! how eagerly I watched for some
indication of the priest or the spy! So intense was my anxiety, those few moments seemed to
me an age of agony. At length the shrill whistle announced that all was ready, and like sweetest
music the sound fell upon my ears. The train dashed off at lightning speed, but to me it seemed
like the movement of a snail.

Once under way, I ventured to breathe freely, and hope again revived. Perchance I might yet
escape. But even as the thought passed my mind, a man entered the cars and seated himself directly,
before me. I thought he regarded me with too much interest, and thinking to shun him, I quietly
left my seat and retired to the other end of the car. He soon followed, and again my fears
revived. He at first tried to converse with me, but finding I would not reply, he began to
question me in the most direct and impertinent manner. Again I changed my seat, and again he
followed. I then sought the conductor, and revealed to him enough of my history to enlist his
sympathy and ensure his protection. To his honor be it spoken, I did not appeal to him in vain.
He severely reproved the man for his impertinence; and for the rest of the journey I was shielded
from insult or injury.

Nothing further of interest transpired until I reached Worcester, when the first face that
met my eye as I was about to leave the cars was that of a Romish priest. I could not be mistaken,
for I had often seen him at Montreal. He might not have been looking for me, but he watched
every passenger as they left the cars in a way that convinced me he had some special reason
for doing it. As I, too, had special reasons for avoiding him just at that time, I stepped
back out of sight until the passengers were all out of the cars and the priest had turned away.
I then sprang out upon the opposite side, and, turning my back upon the depot, hastened away
amid the wilderness of houses, not knowing whither I went. For a long time I wandered around,
until at length, being faint and weary, I began to look for some place where I could obtain
refreshment. But when I found a restaurant I did not dare to enter. A number of Irishmen were
standing around who were in all probability Catholics. I would not venture among them; but
as I turned aside I remembered that Mr. Williams had directed me to seek employment a little
out of the city. I then inquired the way to Main street, and having found it, I turned to the
north and walked on till I found myself out of the thickly settled part of the city. Then I
began to seek for employment, and after several fruitless applications I chanced to call upon
a man whose name was Handy. He received me in the kindest manner, and when I asked for work,
he said his wife did not need to hire me, but I was welcome to stop with them and work for
my board until I found employment elsewhere. This offer I joyfully accepted; and, as I became
acquainted in the place, many kind hands were extended to aid me in my efforts to obtain an
honest living. In this neighborhood I still reside, truly thankful for past deliverance, grateful
for present mercies, and confidently trusting God for the future.

CHAPTER XXVI.

CONCLUSION.

Here closes the history of Sarah J. Richardson, as related by herself. The remaining particulars
have been obtained from her employers in Worcester.

She arrived in this city August, 1854, and, as she has already stated, at once commenced seeking
for employment. She called at many houses before she found any one who wished for help; and
her first question at each place was, "Are you a Catholic?" If the answer was in the affirmative,
she passed on, but if the family were Protestants, she inquired for some kind of employment.
She did not care what it was; she would cook, wash, sew, or do chamber-work--anything to earn
her bread. A Mr. Handy was the first person who took her in, and gave her a home. In his family
she worked for her board a few weeks, going out to wash occasionally as she had opportunity.
She then went to Holden Mass., but for some reason remained only one week, and again returned
to Worcester.

Mr. Ezra Goddard then took her into his own family, and found her capable, industrious, and
trustworthy. Had anything been wanting to prove her truthfulness and sincerity, the deep gratitude
of her fervent "I thank you," when told that she had found a permanent home, would have done
it effectually. But though her whole appearance indicated contentment and earnestness of purpose,
though her various duties were faithfully and zealously performed, yet the deep sadness of
her countenance, and the evident anxiety of her mind at first awakened a suspicion of mental
derangement. She seemed restless, suspicious, and morbidly apprehensive of approaching danger.
The appearance of a stranger, or a sudden ringing of the bell, would cause her to start, tremble,
and exhibit the greatest perturbation of spirit. In fact, she seemed so constantly on the qui
vive, the lady of the house one day said to her, "Sarah, what is the matter with you? what
do you fear?" "The Roman Catholic priests," she replied. "I have been a nun. I ran away from
the Grey Nunnery at Montreal, and twice I have been caught, carried back, and punished in the
most cruel manner. O, if you knew what I have suffered, you would not wonder that I live in
constant fear lest they again seek out my retreat; and I will die before I go back again."

Further questioning drew from her the foregoing narrative, which she repeated once and again
to various persons, and at different times, without the least alteration or contradiction.
She resided in the family of Mr. Goddard some weeks, when she was taken into the employ of
Mr. Amos L. Black.

This gentleman informs us that he found her a faithful, industrious, honest servant, and he
has not the least doubt of the truthfulness of her statements respecting her former life in
the Convent.

A few weeks after this, she was married to Frederick S. Richardson with whom she became acquainted
soon after her arrival in the city of Worcester. The marriage ceremony was performed by Charles
Chaffin, Esq., of Holden, Mass. After their marriage, her husband hired a room in the house
occupied by Mr. Handy with whom she had formerly resided. After a few weeks, however, they
removed to a place called the Drury farm. It is owned by the heirs, but left in the care of
Mr. Ezra Goddard.

Previous to her marriage, Mrs. Richardson had often been advised to allow her history to be
placed before the public. But she always replied, "For my life I would not do it. Not because
I do not wish the world to know it, for I would gladly proclaim it wherever a Romanist is known,
but it would be impossible for me to escape their hands should I make myself so public. They
would most assuredly take my life." After her marriage, however, her principal objection was
removed. She thought they would not wish to take her back into the nunnery, and her husband
would protect her from violence. She therefore related the story of her life while in the convent,
which, in accordance with her own request, was written down from her lips as she related it.
This was done by Mrs. Lucy Ann Hood, wife of Edward P. Hood, and daughter of Ezra Goddard.
It is now given to the public without addition or alteration, and with but a slight abridgment.
A strange and startling story it certainly is. Perhaps the reader will cast it aside at once
as a worthless fiction,--the idle vagary of an excited brain. The compiler, of course, cannot
vouch for its truth, but would respectfully invite the attention of the reader to the following
testimonials presented by those who have known the narrator. The first is from Edward P. Hood,
with whom Mrs. Richardson resided when her narrative was written.

(TESTIMONY OF EDWARD P. HOOD.)

To all whom it may concern. I hereby certify that I was personally acquainted with Sarah J.
Richards, now Sarah J. Richardson, at the time she resided in Worcester, Mass. I first saw
her at the house of Mr. Ezra Goddard, where she came seeking employment. She appeared anxious
to get some kind of work, was willing to do anything to earn an honest living. She had the
appearance of a person who had seen much suffering and hardship. She worked for Mr. Goddard
a short time, when she obtained another place. She then left, but called very often; and during
her stay in Worcester, she worked there several times. So far as I was able to judge of her
character, I do not hesitate to say that she was a woman of truth and honesty. I heard her
relate the account of her life and sufferings in the Grey Nunnery, and her final escape. I
knew when the story was written, and can testify to its being done according to her own dictation.
I have examined the manuscript, and can say that it a written out truly and faithfully as related
by the nun herself.

EDWARD P. HOOD.

Worcester, May 5, 1856.

(TESTIMONY OF EZRA GODDARD.)

I first became acquainted with Sarah J. Richardson in August 1854. She came to my house to
work for my wife. She was at my house a great many times after that until March 1855, when
she left Worcester. At one time she was there four or five weeks in succession. She was industrious,
willing to do anything to get an honest living. She was kind in her disposition, and honest
in her dealings. I have no hesitation in saying that I think her statements can be relied upon.

EZRA GODDARD.

Worcester, Jan. 21, 1856.

(TESTIMONY OF LUCY GODDARD.)

I am acquainted with the above named Sarah J. Richardson, and can fully testify to the truth
of the above statements as to her kindness and industrious habits, honesty and truthfulness.

LUCY GODDARD.

Worcester, Jan. 21, 1856.

(TESTIMONY OF JOSIAH GODDARD.)

To whom it may concern: This is to testify that I am acquainted with Sarah J. Richardson, formerly
Sarah J. Richards. I became acquainted with her in the fall of 1854. She worked at my father's
at the time. I heard her tell her story, and from what I saw of her while she was in Worcester,
I have no hesitation in saying that she was a woman of truth and honesty.

JOSIAH GODDARD.

Worcester, March 1, 1856.

(TESTIMONY OF EBEN JEWETT.)

I became acquainted with Sarah J. Richardson last winter, at the house of Mr. Ezra Goddard;
saw her a number of times after that, at the place where I boarded. She did some work for my
wife, and I heard her speak of being at the Grey Nunnery. I also heard her story, from Mr.
Goddard's family. I have no doubt of her being honest and truthful, and I believe she is so
considered by all who became acquainted with her.

EBEN JEWETT.

Worcester, Feb., 1856.

(TESTIMONY OF CHARLES CHAFFIN.)

Worcester, ss.--Holden, Nov. 11, 1854.

This certifies that I this day united in marriage, Frederick S. Richardson and Sarah J. Richards,
both of Worcester.

CHARLES CHAFFIN, Justice of the Peace.

(AFFIDAVIT.)

I, Sarah J. Richardson, wife of Frederick S. Richardson, of the city of Worcester, County of
Worcester, and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, formerly Sarah J. Richards before marriage, do
solemnly swear, declare and say, that the foregoing pages contain a true and faithful history
of my life before my marriage to the said Frederick S. Richardson, and that every statement
made herein by me is true. In witness whereof, I do hereunto set my hand and seal, this 13th
day of March, A.D. 1855.

SARAH J. RICHARDSON (X her mark.)

In presence of WM. GREENLEAF.

Sworn to before me, the 13th day of March, AD. 1855.

WM. GREENLEAF, Justice of the Peace.

(TESTIMONY OF Z. K. PANGBORN.)

When it was known that the Narrative of Sarah J. Richardson was about to be published, Mr.
Z. K. Pangborn, at that time editor of the Worcester Daily Transcript, voluntarily offered
the following testimony which we copy from one of his editorials.

"We have no doubt that the nun here spoken of as one who escaped from the Grey Nunnery at Montreal,
is the same person who spent some weeks in our family in the fall of 1853, after her first
escape from the Nunnery. She came in search of employment to our house in St. Albans, Vt.,
stating that she had traveled on foot from Montreal, and her appearance indicated that she
was poor, and had seen hardship. She obtained work at sewing, her health not being sufficient
for more arduous task. She appeared to be suffering under some severe mental trial, and though
industrious and lady-like in her deportment, still appeared absent minded, and occasionally
singular in her manner. After awhile she revealed the fact to the lady of the house, that she
had escaped from the Grey Nunnery at Montreal, but begged her not to inform any one of the
fact, as she feared, if it should be known, that she would be retaken, and carried back. A
few days after making this disclosure, she suddenly disappeared. Having gone out one evening,
and failing to return, much inquiry was made, but no trace of her was obtained for some months.
Last spring a gentleman from Worcester, Mass. called on us to make inquiries in regard to this
same person and gave us the following account of her as given by herself. She states that on
the evening when she so mysteriously disappeared from our house, she called upon an Irish family
whose acquaintance she had formed, and when she was coming away, was suddenly seized, gagged,
and thrust into a close carriage, or box, as she thought, and on the evening of the next day
found herself once more consigned to the tender mercies of the Grey Nunnery in Montreal. Her
capture was effected by a priest who tracked her to St. Albans, and watched his opportunity
to seize her. She was subjected to the most rigorous and cruel treatment, to punish her for
running away, and kept in close confinement till she feigned penitence and submission, when
she was treated less cruelly, and allowed more liberty.

"But the difficulties in the way of an escape, only stimulated her the more to make the attempt,
and she finally succeeded a second time in getting out of that place which she described as
a den of cruelty and misery. She was successful also in eluding her pursuers, and in reaching
this city, (Worcester,) where she remained some time, seeking to avoid notoriety, as she feared
she might be again betrayed and captured. She is now, however, in a position where she does
not fear the priests, and proposes to give to the world a history of her life in the Nunnery.
The disclosures she makes are of the most startling character, but of her veracity and good
character we have the most satisfactory evidence."

This statement was confirmed by Mrs. Pangborn, a sister of the late Mrs Branard, the lady with
whom Sarah J. Richardson stopped in St. Albans, and by whom she was employed as a seamstress.
Being an inmate of the family at the time, Mrs Pangborn states that she had every opportunity
to become acquainted with the girl and learn her true character. The family, she says, were
all interested in her, although they knew nothing of her secret, until a few days before she
left. She speaks of her as being "quiet and thoughtful, diligent, faithful and anxious to please,
but manifesting an eager desire for learning, that she might be able to acquaint herself more
perfectly with the Holy Scriptures. She could, at that time, read a little, and her mind was
well stored with select passages from the sacred volume, which she seemed to take great delight
in repeating. She was able to converse intelligently upon almost any subject, and never seemed
at a loss for language to express her thoughts. No one could doubt that nature had given her
a mind capable of a high degree of religious and intellectual culture, and that, with the opportunity
for improvement, she would become a useful member of society. Of book knowledge she was certainly
quite ignorant, but she had evidently studied human nature to some good purpose." Mrs Pangborn
also corroborates many of the statements in her narrative. She often visited the Grey Nunnery,
and says that the description given of the building, the Academy, the Orphan's Home, and young
ladies school, are all correct. The young Smalley mentioned in the narrative was well known
to her, and also his sister "little Sissy Smalley," as they used to call her. Inquiries have
been made of those acquainted with the route along which the fugitive passed in her hasty flight,
and we are told that the description is in general correct; that even the mistakes serve to
prove the truthfulness of the narrator, being such as a person would be likely to make when
describing from memory scenes and places they had seen but once; whereas, if they were getting
up a fiction which they designed to represent as truth, such mistakes would be carefully avoided.

APPENDIX I.

ABSURDITIES OF ROMANISTS.

It may perchance be thought by some persons that the foregoing narrative contains many things
too absurd and childish for belief. "What rational man," it may be said, "would ever think
of dressing up a figure to represent the devil, for the purpose of frightening young girls
into obedience? And those absurd threats! Surely no sane man, and certainly no Christian teacher,
would ever stoop to such senseless mummery!"

Incredible it may seem--foolish, false, inconsistent with reason, or the plain dictates of
common sense, it certainly is--but we have before us well-authenticated accounts of transactions
in which the Romish priests claimed powers quite as extraordinary, and palmed off upon a credulous,
superstitious people stories quite as silly and ridiculous as anything recorded in these pages.
Indeed, so barefaced and shameless were their pretensions in some instances, that even their
better-informed brethren were ashamed of their folly, and their own archbishop publicly rebuked
their dishonesty, cupidity and chicanery. In proof of this we place before our readers the
following facts which we find in a letter from Professor Similien, of the college of Angers,
addressed to the Union de l'Ouest:

"Some years ago a pretended miracle was reported as having occurred upon a mountain called
La Salette, in the southeastern part of France, where the Virgin Mary appeared in a very miraculous
manner to two young shepherds. The story, however, was soon proved to be a despicable trick
of the priest, and as such was publicly exposed. But the Bishop of Lucon, within whose diocese
the sacred mountain stands, appears to have been unwilling to relinquish the advantage which
he expected to result from a wide-spread belief in this infamous fable. Accordingly, in July,
1852, it was again reported that no less than three miracles were wrought there by the Holy
Virgin. The details were as follows:

"A young pupil at the religious establishment of the visitation of Valence, who had been for
three months completely blind from an attack of gutta-serena, arrived at La Salette on the
first of July, in company with some sisters of the community. The extreme fatigue which she
had undergone in order to reach the summit of the mountain, at the place of the apparition,
caused some anxiety to be felt that she could not remain fasting until the conclusion of the
mass, which had not yet commenced, and the Abbe Sibilla, one of the missionaries of La Salette,
was requested to administer the sacrament to her before the service began. She had scarcely
received the sacred wafer, when, impelled by a sudden inspiration, she raised her head and
exclaimed, 'ma bonne mere, je vous vois.' She had, in fact, her eyes fixed on the statue of
the Virgin, which she saw as clearly as any one present For more than an hour she remained
plunged in an ecstasy of gratitude and love, and afterward retired from the place without requiring
the assistance of those who accompanied her. At the same moment a woman from Gap, nearly sixty
years of age, who for the last nineteen years had not had the use of her right arm, in consequence
of a dislocation, suddenly felt it restored to its original state, and swinging round the once
paralyzed limb, she exclaimed, in a transport of joy and gratitude, 'And I also am cured!'
A third cure, although not instantaneous, is not the less striking. Another woman, known in
the country for years as being paralytic, could not ascend the mountain but with the greatest
difficulty, and with the aid of crutches. On the first day of the neuvane, that of her arrival,
she felt a sensation as if life was coming into her legs, which had been for so long tune dead.
This feeling went on increasing, and the last day of the neuvane, after having received the
communion, she went, without any assistance, to the cross of the assumption, where she hung
up her crutches. She also was cured.

"Bishop Lucon must have known that this was mere imposition; yet, so far from exposing a fraud
so base, he not only permits his people to believe it, but he lends his whole influence to
support and circulate the falsehood. And why? Ah! a church was to be erected; and it was necessary
to get up a little enthusiasm among the people in order to induce them to fill his exhausted
coffers, and build the church. In proof of this, we have only to quote a few extracts from
the 'Pastoral' which he issued on this occasion.

"'And now," he says, "Mary has deigned to appear on the summit of a lofty mountain to two young
shepherds, revealing to them the secrets of heaven. But who attests the truth of the narrative
of these Alpine pastors? No other than the men themselves, and they are believed. They declare
what they have seen, they repeat what they have heard, they retain what they have received
commandment to keep secret.

"A few words of the incomparable Mother of God have transformed them into new men. Incapable
of concerting aught between themselves, or of imagining anything similar to what they relate,
each is the witness to a vision which has not found him unbelieving; each is its historian.
These two shepherds, dull as they were, have at once understood and received the lesson which
was vouchsafed to them, and it is ineffaceably engraven on their hearts. They add nothing to
it, they take nothing from it, they modify it in nowise, they deliver the oracle of Heaven
just as they have received it.

"An admirable constancy enabled them to guard the secret, a singular sagacity made them discern
all the snares laid for them, a rare prudence suggested to them a thousand responses, not one
of which betrayed their secret; and when at length the time came when it was their duty to
make it known to the common Father of the Faithful, they wrote correctly, as if reading a book
placed under their eyes. Their recital drew to this blessed mountain thousands of pilgrims.

"They proclaimed that 'on Saturday, the 19th of September, 1846, Mary manifested herself to
them; and the anniversary of this glorious day is henceforth and forever dear to Christian
piety. Will not every pilgrim who repairs to this holy mountain add his testimony to the truthfulness
of these young shepherds? Mary halted near a fountain; she communicated to it a celestial virtue,
a divine efficacy. From being intermittent, this spring, today so celebrated, became perennial.

"'Every where is recounted the prodigies which she works. When the afflicted are in despair,
the infirm without remedy, they resort to the waters of La Salette, and cures are wrought by
this remedy, whose power makes itself felt against every evil. Our diocess, so devoted to Mary,
has been no stranger to the bounty of this tender Mother. We are about to celebrate shortly
the sixth anniversary of this miraculous apparition. NOW THAT A SANCTUARY IS TO BE RAISED on
this holy mountain to the glory of God, we have thought it right to inform you thereof.

"'We cannot doubt that many of you have been heard by our Lady of La Salette; you desire to
witness your gratitude to this mother of compassion; you would gladly BRING YOUR STONE to the
beautiful edifice that is to be constructed. WE DESIRE TO FURTHER YOUR FILIAL TENDERNESS WITH
THE MEANS OF TRANSMITTING THE ALMS OF FAITH AND PIETY. For these reasons, invoking the holy
name of God, we have ordained and do ordain as follows, viz.:

"'First, we permit the appearance of our Lady of La Salette to be preached throughout our diocess;
secondly, on Sunday, the 19th of September next ensuing, the litanies of the Holy Virgin shall
be chanted in all the chapels and churches of the diocess, and be followed by the benediction
of the Holy Sacrament. Thirdly, THE FAITHFUL WHO MAY DESIRE TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE ERECTION OF
THE NEW SANCTUARY, MAY DEPOSIT THEIR OFFERINGS IN THE HANDS OF THE CURE, WHO WILL TRANSMIT
THEM TO US FOR THE BISHOP OF GRENOBLE.

"'Our present pastoral letter shall be read and published after mass in every parish on the
Sunday after its reception.

"'Given at Lucon, in our Episcopal palace, under our sign-manual and the seal of our arms,
and the official counter-signature of our secretary, the 30th of June, of the year of Grace, 1852.

"'X Jac-Mar Jos, "'Bishop of Lucon.'"

"It is not a little remarkable," says the editor of the American Christian Union, "that whilst
the Bishop of Lucon was engaged in extolling the miracles of La Salette, the Cardinal Archbishop
of Lyons, Dr. Bonald, 'Primate of all the Gauls,' addressed a circular to all the priests in
his diocese, in which he cautions them against apocryphal miracles! There is indubitable evidence
that his grace refers to the scandalous delusions of La Salette. His language is severe, very
severe. He attributes the miracles in question to pecuniary speculation, which now-a-days,
he says, mingles with everything, seizes upon imaginary facts, and profits by it at the expense
of the credulous! He charges the authors of these things with being GREEDY MEN, who aim at
procuring for themselves DISHONEST GAINS by this traffic in superstitious objects! And he forbids
the publishing from the pulpit, without leave, of any account of a miracle, even though its
authenticity should be attested by another Bishop! This is good. His grace deserves credit
for setting his face against this miserable business, of palming off false miracles upon the
people."

[Footnote: Since the above was written, we have met with the following explanation of this
modern miracle:

"A few years ago there was a great stir among 'the simple faithful' in France, occasioned by
a well-credited apparition of the Holy Virgin at La Salette. She required the erection of a
chapel in her honor at that place, and made such promises of special indulgences to all who
paid their devotions there, that it became 'all the rage' as a place of pilgrimage. The consequence
was, that other shops for the same sort of wares in that region lost most of their customers,
and the good priests who tended the tills were sorely impoverished. In self-defence, they,
WELL KNOWING HOW SUCH THINGS WERE GOT UP, exposed the trick. A prelate publicly denounced the
imposture, and an Abbe Deleon, priest in the diocess of Grenoble, printed a work called 'La
Salette a Valley of Lies.' In this publication it was maintained, with proofs, that the hoax
was gotten up by a Mademoiselle de Lamerliere, a sort of half-crazy nun, who impersonated the
character of the Virgin. For the injury done to her character by this book she sued the priest
for damages to the tone of twenty thousand francs, demanding also the infliction of the utmost
penalty of the law. The court, after a long and careful investigation, for two days, as we
learn by the Catholic Herald, disposed of the case by declaring the miracle-working damsel
non-suited, and condemning her to pay the expenses of the prosecution."--American and Foreign
Christian Union.]

Another of Rome's marvellous stories we copy from the New York Daily Times of July 3d, 1854.
It is from the pen of a correspondent at Rome, who, after giving an account of the ceremony
performed in the church of St. Peters at the canonization of a NEW SAINT, under the name of
Germana, relates the following particulars of her history. He says, "I take the facts as they
are related in a pamphlet account of her 'life, virtues, and miracles,' published by authority
at Rome:

"Germana Consin was born near the village of Pibrac, in the diocess of Toulouse, in France.
Maimed in one hand, and of a scrofulous constitution, she excited the hatred of her step-mother,
in whose power her father's second marriage placed her while yet a child. This cruel woman
gave the little Germana no other bed than some vine twigs, lying under a flight of stairs,
which galled her limbs, wearied with the day's labor. She also persuaded her husband to send
the little girl to tend sheep in the plains, exposed to all extremes of weather. Injuries and
abuse were her only welcome when she returned from her day's task to her home. To these injuries
she submitted with Christian meekness and patience, and she derived her happiness and consolation
from religious faith. She went every day to church to hear mass, disregarding the distance,
the difficulty of the journey, and the danger in which she left her flock. The neighboring
forest was full of wolves, who devoured great numbers from other flocks, but never touched
a sheep in that of Germana. To go to the church she was obliged to cross a little river, which
was often flooded, but she passed with dry feet; the waters flowing away from her on either
side: howbeit no one else dared to attempt the passage. Whenever the signal sounded for the
Ave Marie, wherever she might be in conducting her sheep, even if in a ditch, or in mud or
mire, she kneeled down and offered her devotions to the Queen of Heaven, nor were her garments
wet or soiled. The little children whom she met in the fields she instructed in the truths
of religion. For the poor she felt the tenderest charity, and robbed herself of her scanty
pittance of bread to feed them. One day her step-mother, suspecting that she was carrying away
from the house morsels of bread to be thus distributed, incited her husband to look in her
apron; he did so, BUT FOUND IT FULL OF FLOWERS, BEAUTIFUL BUT OUT OF SEASON, INSTEAD OF BREAD.
This miraculous conversion of bread into flowers formed the subject of one of the paintings
exhibited in St. Peter's at the Beatification. Industrious, charitable, patient and forgiving,
Germana lived a memorable example of piety till she passed from earth in the twenty second
year of her age. The night of her death two holy monks were passing, on a journey, in the neighborhood
of her house. Late at night they saw two celestial virgins robed in white on the road that
led to her habitation; a few minutes afterwards they returned leading between them another
virgin clad in pure white, and with a crown of flowers on her head.

"Wonders did not cease with her death. Forty years after this event her body was uncovered,
in digging a grave for another person, and found entirely uncorrupted--nay, the blood flowed
from a wound accidentally made in her face. Great crowds assembled to see the body so miraculously
preserved, and it was carefully re-interred within the church. There it lay in place until
the French Revolution, when it was pulled up and cast into a ditch and covered with quick lime
and water. But even this failed to injure the body of the blessed saint. It was found two years
afterward entirely unhurt, and even the grave clothes which surrounded it were entire, as on
the day of sepulture, two hundred years before.

"And now in the middle of the nineteenth century, these facts are published for the edification
of believers, and his Holiness has set his seal to their authenticity. Four miracles performed
by this saint after her death are attested by the bull of beatification, and also by Latin
inscriptions in great letters displayed at St. Peter's on the day of this great celebration.
The monks of the monastery at Bourges, in France, prayed her to intercede on one occasion,
that their store of bread might be multiplied; on another their store of meal; on both occasions
THEIR PRAYER WAS GRANTED. The other two miracles were cures of desperate maladies, the diseased
persons having been brought to pray over her tomb.

"On the splendid scarlet hangings, bearing the arms of Pius IX. and suspended at the corners
of the nave and transept, were two Latin inscriptions, of similar purport, of one of which
I give a translation: 'O Germana, raised to-day to celestial honors by Pius IX. Pontifex Maximus,
since thou knowest that Pius has wept over thy nation wandering from God, and has exultingly
rejoiced at its reconciling itself with God little by little, he prays thee intimately united
with God, do thou, for thou canst do it, make known his wishes to God, and strengthen them,
for thou art able, with the virtue of thy prayers.'

"I have been thus minute in my account of this Beatification, deeming the facts I state of
no little importance and interest, as casting light upon the character of the Catholicism of
the present day, and showing with what matters the Spiritual and Temporal ruler of Rome is
busying himself in this year of our Lord eighteen hundred and fifty-four."

Many other examples similar to the above might be given from the history of Catholicism as
it exists at the present time in the old world. But let us turn to our own country. We need
not look to France or Rome for examples of priestly intrigue of the basest kind; and absurdities
that almost surpass belief. The following account which we copy from The American and Foreign
Christian Union of August, 1852, will serve to show that the priests in these United States
are quite as willing to impose upon the ignorant and credulous as, their brethren in other
countries. The article is from the pen of an Irish Missionary in the employ of The American
and Foreign Christian Union and is entitled,

   "A LYING WONDER."

"It would seem almost incredible," says the editor of this valuable Magazine, "that any men
could be found in this country who are capable of practising such wretched deceptions. But
the account given in the subjoined statement is too well authenticated to permit us to reject
the story as untrue, however improbable it may, at first sight, seem to be. Here it is:--?

"Mr. Editor,--I give you, herein, some information respecting a lying wonder wrought in Troy,
New York, last winter, and respecting the female who was the 'MEDIUM' of it. I have come to
the conclusion that this female is a Jesuit, after as good an examination as I have been able
to give the matter. I have been fed with these lying wonders in early life, and in Ireland
as well as in this country there are many who, for want of knowing any better, will feed upon
them in their hearts by faith and thanksgiving. About the time this lying wonder of which I
am about to write happened, I had been talking of it in the office of Mr. Luther, of Albany,
(coal merchant), where were a number of Irish waiting for a job. One of these men declared,
with many curses on his soul if what he told was not true, that he had seen a devil cast out
of a woman in his own parish, in Ireland, by the priest. I told him it would be better for
his character's sake for him to say he heard of it, than to say he SAW it.

Mr. J. W. Lockwood, a respectable merchant in Troy, New York, and son of the late mayor, kept
two or three young women as 'helps' for his lady, last winter. The name of one is Eliza Mead,
and the name of another is Catharine Dillon, a native of the county of Limerick, Ireland. Eliza
was an upper servant, who took care of her mistress and her children. Catharine was and is
now the cook. Eliza appeared to her mistress to be a very well educated, and a very intellectual
woman of 35, though she would try to make believe she could not write, and that she was subject
to fits of insanity. There was then presumptive evidence that she wrote a good deal, and there
is now positive evidence that she could write. She used often, in the presence of Mrs. L.,
to take the Bible and other books and read them, and would often say she thought the Protestants
had a better religion than the Catholics, and were a better people. Afterwards she told Mrs.
L. that she had doubts about the Catholic religion, and was inclined toward the Protestant:
but now she is sure, quite sure, that the Catholic alone is the right one, FOR IT WAS REVEALED
TO HER.

On the evening of the 23d of December, 1851, Eliza and Catharine were missing;--but I will
give you Catharine's affidavit about their business from home.

"City of Troy, S. W.

"I, Catharine Dillon, say, that on Tuesday, 23d December inst, about five o'clock in the afternoon,
I went with Eliza Mead to see the priest, Mr.  McDonnel, who was at home. Eliza remained there
till about six o'clock P. M. At that time I returned home, leaving her at the priest's. At
half past eight o'clock the same evening I returned to the priest's house for Eliza, and waited
there for her till about ten o'clock of the same evening, expecting that Eliza's conference
with the priest would be ended, and that she would come home with me.

"During the evening there had been another besides Mr. McDonnel there. About ten o'clock this
other priest retired, as I understood. Soon after this Mr. McDonnel called me, with others,
into the room where Eliza was, when he said that she (Eliza) was POSSESSED OF THE DEVIL Mr.
McDonnel then commenced interrogating the devil, asking the devil if he possessed her. The
answer was, "Yes." The priest then asked, "How long?" and the answer was, "Six months and nine
days." The priest then asked, "Who sent you into her?" The answer was, "Mr. Lockwood." The
next question was, "When?" "When she was asleep," was the answer. He then asked the devil if
Mr. Lockwood had ever tempted Catharine, meaning me, and the reply was, "Yes." Then the question
was, "How many times?" And the answer was, "Three times, by offering her drink when she was
asleep?"

"I came home about five o'clock in the morning, greatly shocked at what I had seen and heard,
and impressed with the belief that Eliza was possessed with the devil. I went again to the
priest's on Wednesday to find Eliza, when the priest told me that he, Mr. McDonnel, exorcised
the devil at high mass that morning in the church, and drove the devil out of Eliza. That he,
the devil, came out of Eliza, and spat at the Holy Cross of Jesus Christ, and departed. He
then told me that, as Eliza got the devil from Mr. Lockwood, in the house where I lived, I
must leave the house immediately, and made me promise him that I would. During the appalling
scenes of Tuesday night, Mr. McDonnel went to the other priest and called him up, but the other
priest did not come to his assistance. These answers to the priest when he was asking questions
of the devil, were given in a very loud voice and sometimes with a loud scream."

"CATHARINE DILLON."

"Subscribed and sworn to, this 31st day of December, 1851, before me, JOB S. OLIN, Recorder
of Troy, New York." [A copy.]

At the interview between Mr. J. W. Lockwood and the Rev. Mr. McDonnel, officiating priest at
St. Peter's church, there were present Hon. James M. Warren, T. W. Blatchford, M. D., and C.
N. Lockwood, on the part of Mr. Lockwood, and Father Kenny and Mr. Davis on the part of the
Rev. Mr. McDonnel, on the evening of the 31st December, 1851.

Mr. McDonnel at first declined answering any questions, questioning Mr. Lockwood's right to
ask them: He would only say that Eliza Mead came to his house possessed, as she thought, with
an evil spirit; that at first he declined having anything to do with her, first, because he
believed her to be crazy; second, because he was at that moment otherwise engaged; and thirdly,
because she was not in his parish; but, by her urgent appeals in the name of God to pray over
her, he was at last induced to admit her. He became satisfied that she was possessed of the
devil, or an evil spirit, by saying the appointed prayers of the church over her; for the spirit
manifested uneasiness when this was done; and furthermore, as she was entering the church the
following morning, she was thrown into convulsions by Father Kenny's making the sign of the
cross behind her back. At high mass in the morning he exorcised the devil, and he left her,
spitting at the cross of Christ before taking his final departure.

As to Mr. McDonnel's repeatedly telling Catharine that she must leave Mr. L's house immediately,
for if she remained there Mr. L. would put the devil in her, Mr. McDonnel denied saying or
doing anything whatever that was detrimental to the character of Mr. L. or any of his family.
Mr. McDonnel repeatedly refused to answer the questions put to him by Mr. L. He considered
it insulting that Mr. L. should visit his house on such business, as no power on earth but
that of the POPE had authority to question him on such matters. But being reminded that slanderous
reports had emanated from that very house against Mr. L. he, Mr. McDonnel, said it was all
to see what kind of a man he was that brought Mr. L. there, and if reports were exaggerated,
it was nothing to him.

Mr. McDonnel said that he cleared the church before casting out the devil, and there was but
one person besides himself there. That, every word spoken in the church was in Latin, and nobody
in the church understood a word of it. That he had heard threats made by Mr. L., also that
Mr. L. had said the pretended answers of the devil ware made through the medium of ventriloquism.
Father Kenny, in the progress of the interview, made two or three attempts to speak, but was
prevented by Mr. McDonnel.

Thus ends the report written down by Mr. L.'s brother, who was present, immediately after the
interview. It was all Latin in the church, we see; but the low Irish will not believe that
the devil could understand Latin. However, it was not all Latin at the priest's house, where
Catharine Dillon heard what she declared on oath. How slow the priest was to admit her (Eliza
Mead) in the beginning, and to believe that she had his sable majesty in her, until it manifested
uneasiness under the cannonade of church prayers!

"But you will ask, how could an educated priest, or an intelligent woman, condescend to such
diabolical impositions? I think it is something after the way that a man gets to be a drunkard;
he may not like the taste thereof at first, but afterwards he will smack his lips and say,
'there is nothing like whiskey,' and as their food becomes part of their bodily substance,
so are these 'lying wonders' converted into their spiritual substance. So I think; I am, however,
but a very humble philosopher, and therefore I will use the diction of the Holy Spirit on the
matter: 'For this cause God shall send them strong delusions, that they should believe a lie,'
EVEN OF THEIR OWN MAKING, OR WHAT MAY EASILY BE SEEN TO BE LIES OF OTHER'S GETTING, "that they
all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.'"

"JOHN MURPHEY."

ALBANY, June 2nd, 1852.

It was said by one "that the first temptation on reading such monstrosities as the above, is
to utter a laugh of derision." But it is with no such feeling that we place them before our
readers. Surely, no pleasure can be found in reading or recording scenes which a pure mind
can regard only with pity and disgust. Yet we desire to prove to our readers that the absurd
threats and foolish attempts to impose upon the weak and ignorant recorded by Sarah J. Richardson
are perfectly consistent with the general character and conduct of the Romish priests. Read
for instance, the following ridiculous story translated from Le Semeur Canadien for October
12th, 1855.

A NEW MEANS OF CONVERSION.

In the district of Montreal lived a Canadian widow of French extraction who had become a Protestant.
Madam V--, such was the name of this lady, lived with her daughter, the sole fruit of a union
too soon dissolved by unsparing death. Their life, full of good works, dispelled prejudices
that the inhabitants of the vicinity--all intolerant Catholics--had always entertained against
evangelical Christians; they gained their respect, moreover, by presenting them the example
of every virtue. Two of the neighbors of the Protestant widow--who had often heard at her house
the word of God read and commented upon by one of those ministers who visit the scattered members
of their communion--talked lately of embracing the reformed religion. In the mean while, Miss
V-- died. The young Christian rested her hope upon the promises of the Saviour who has said,
"Believe in Christ and thou shall be saved."

Her spirit flew to its Creator with the confidence of an infant who throws himself into the
arms of his father. Her last moments were not tormented by the fear of purgatory, where every
Catholic believes he will suffer for a longer or shorter time. This death strengthened the
neighbors in the resolution they had taken to leave the Catholic church. The widow buried the
remains of her daughter upon her own land, a short distance from her house: the nearest Protestant
cemetery was so far off that she was forced to give up burying it there.

Some Catholic fanatics of the vicinity assembled secretly the day after the funeral of Miss
V-- to discuss the best means for arresting the progress that the reformed religion was making
in the parish. After long deliberation they resolved to hire a poor man to go every evening
for a whole week and groan near the grave of Miss V---. Their object was to make the widow
and neighbors believe that the young girl was damned; and that God permitted her to show her
great unhappiness by lamentations, so that they might avoid her fate by remaining faithful
to the belief of their fathers. In any other country than Lower Canada, those who might have
employed such means would not perhaps have had an opportunity of seeing their enterprise crowned
with success; but in our country districts, where the people believe in ghosts and bugbears,
it would almost certainly produce the desired effect. This expedient, instead of being ridiculous,
was atrocious. The employment of it could not fail to cause Mrs V-- to suffer the most painful
agonies, and her neighbors the torments of doubt.

The credulity of the French-Canadian is the work of the clergy; they invent and relate, in
order to excite their piety, the most marvellous things. For example: the priests say that
souls in purgatory desiring alleviation come and ask masses of their relatives, either by appearing
in the same form they had in life, or by displacing the furniture and making a noise, as long
as they have not terminated the expiation of their sins. The Catholic clergy, by supporting
these fabulous doctrines and pious lies, lead their flock into the baleful habit of believing
things the most absurd and destitute of proof.

The day after Miss V--'s funeral, everybody in the parish was talking of the woeful cries which
had been heard the night before near her grave. The inhabitants of the place, imbued with fantastic
ideas that their rector had kept alive, were dupes of the artifice employed by some of their
own number. They became convinced that there is no safety outside of the church, of which they
formed a part. Seized with horror they determined never to pass a night near the grave of the
cursed one, as they already called the young Protestant. Mrs. V-- by the instinctive effect
of prejudices inculcated when she was a Catholic, was at first a prey to deadly anxiety; but
recalling the holy life of her daughter, she no longer doubted of her being among the number
of the elect. She guessed at the cause of the noise which was heard near the grave of her child.
In order to assure herself of the justness of her suspicions, she besought the two neighbors
of whom I have already spoken, to conceal themselves there the following night. These persons
were glad of an occasion to test the accuracy of what a curate of their acquaintance had told
them; who had asserted that a spirit free from the body could yet manifest itself substantially
to the living, as speaking without tongue, touching without hands.

They discovered the man who was paid to play the ghost; they seized him, and in order to punish
him, tied him to a tree, at the foot of which Miss V-- was buried. The poor creature the next
morning no longer acted the soul in torment, but shouted like a person who very much wanted
his breakfast. At noon one of his friends passed by who, hearing him implore assistance, approached
and set him free. Overwhelmed with questions and derision, the false ghost confessed he had
acted thus only to obtain the reward which had been promised him. You may easily guess that
the ridicule and reprobation turned upon those who had made him their instrument.

I will not finish this narrative without telling the reader that the curate of the place appeared
much incensed at what his parishioners had done. I am glad to be able to suppose that he condemns
rather than encourages such conduct. A Protestant friend of mine who does not entertain the
same respect for the Roman clergy that I do, advances the opinion that the displeasure of the
curate was not on account of the culpable attempt of some of his flock but on account of its
failure. However, I must add, on my reputation as a faithful narrator, that nothing has yet
happened to confirm his assertion.

ERASTE D'ORSONNENS.

MONTREAL, September 1855.

APPENDIX II.

CRUELTY OF ROMANISTS.

To show that the Romish priests have in all ages, and do still, inflict upon their victims
cruelties quite as severe as anything described in the foregoing pages, and that such cruelties
are sanctioned by their code of laws, we have only to turn to the authentic history of the
past and present transactions of the high functionaries of Rome.

About the year 1356, Nicholas Eymeric, inquisitor-general of Arragon, collected from the civil
and canon laws all that related to the punishment of heretics, and formed the "Directory of
Inquisitors," the first and indeed the fundamental code, which has been followed ever since,
without any essential variation. "It exhibits the practice and theory of the Inquisition at
the time of its sanction by the approbation of Gregory 13th, in 1587, which theory, under some
necessary variations of practice, still remains unchanged."

From this "Directory," transcribed by the Rev. Wm. Rule of London, in 1852, we extract a few
sentences in relation to torture.

