       First Citizen. (After hearing a description of the murder.)
    O piteous spectacle!

       2 Cit. O noble Cæsar!

       3 Cit. O woful day!

       4 Cit. O traitors, villains!

       1 Cit. O most bloody sight! (Act 3, Sc. 2.)

The Tribune Marullus reproaches them with having forgotten Pompey, and calls them

    "You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things."

He persuades them not to favor Cæsar, and when they leave him he asks his fellow tribune, Flavius,

    "See, whe'r their basest metal be not moved?"
                (Act 1, Sc. 1.)

Flavius also treats them with scant courtesy:

    "Hence, home, you idle creatures, get you home.
     Is this a holiday? What! you know not,
     Being mechanical, you ought not walk
     Upon a laboring day without the sign
     Of your profession?"
                (Ib.)

The populace of England is as changeable as that of Rome, if Shakespeare
is to be believed.
                (Henry IV., Part 2, Act 1, Sc. 3.)

Gloucester in "Henry VI." (Part 2, Act 2, Sc. 4) notes the fickleness of the masses. He says,
addressing his absent wife:

    "Sweet Nell, ill can thy noble mind abrook
     The abject people, gazing on thy face
     With envious looks, laughing at thy shame,
     That erst did follow thy proud chariot wheels
     When thou didst ride in triumph through the streets."

And she calls the crowd a "rabble" (Ib.), a term also used in "Hamlet" (Act 4, Sc. 5). Again,
in part III. of "Henry VI.," Clifford, dying on the battlefield while fighting for King Henry,
cries:

    "The common people swarm like summer flies,
     And whither fly the gnats but to the sun?
     And who shines now but Henry's enemies?"
                (Act 2, Sc. 6.)

And Henry himself, conversing with the keepers who have imprisoned him in the name of Edward
IV., says:

    "Ah, simple men! you know not what you swear.
     Look, as I blow this feather from my face,
     And as the air blows it to me again,
     Obeying with my wind when I do blow,
     And yielding to another when it blows,
     Commanded always by the greater gust,
     Such is the lightness of you common men."
                (Ib., Act 3, Sc. 1.)

Suffolk, in the First Part of the same trilogy (Act 5, Sc. 5), talks of "worthless peasants,"
meaning, perhaps, "property-less peasants," and when Salisbury comes to present the demands
of the people, he calls him

         "the Lord Ambassador
    Sent from a sort of tinkers to the king,"
                (Part 2, Act 3, Sc. 2.)

and says:

    "'Tis like the Commons, rude unpolished hinds
     Could send such message to their sovereign."

Cardinal Beaufort mentions the "uncivil kernes of Ireland" (Ib., Part 2,
Act 3, Sc. 1), and in the same play the crowd makes itself ridiculous by
shouting, "A miracle," when the fraudulent beggar Simpcox, who had
pretended to be lame and blind, jumps over a stool to escape a whipping
(Act 2, Sc. 1). Queen Margaret receives petitioners with the words
"Away, base cullions" (Ib., Act 1, Sc. 3), and among other flattering
remarks applied here and there to the lower classes we may cite the
epithets "ye rascals, ye rude slaves," addressed to a crowd by a porter
in Henry VIII., and that of "lazy knaves" given by the Lord Chamberlain
to the porters for having let in a "trim rabble" (Act 5, Sc. 3).
     Another lean, unwashed artificer,
     Cuts off his tale, and talks of Arthur's death."
                (Act 4, Sc. 2.)

Macbeth, while sounding the murderers whom he intends to employ, and who say to him, "We are
men, my liege," answers:

    "Ay, in the catalogue, ye go for men
     As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
     Shoughs, water-sugs, and demi-wolves, are cleped
     All by the name of dogs."
                (Act 3, Sc. 1.)

As Coriolanus is held up to our view as a pattern of noble bearing
toward the people, so Richard II. condemns the courteous behavior of the
future Henry IV. on his way into banishment.
                (Richard II., Act 1, Sc. 4.)

The King of France, in "All's Well that Ends Well," commends to Bertram the example of his
late father in his relations with his inferiors:

    "Who were below him
     He used as creatures of another place,
     And bowed his eminent top to their low ranks,
     Making them proud of his humility
     In their poor praise he humbled. Such a man
     Might be a copy to these younger times."
                (Act 1, Sc. 2.)

Shakespeare had no fondness for these "younger times," with their increasing suggestion of
democracy. Despising the masses, he had no sympathy with the idea of improving their condition
or increasing their power. There can easily be too much liberty, according to Shakespeare--"too
much liberty, my Lucio, liberty" (Measure for Measure, Act 1, Sc. 3), but the idea of too much
authority is foreign to him. Claudio, himself under arrest, sings its praises:

         "Thus can the demi-god, Authority,
    Make us pay down for our offense by weight,--
    The words of Heaven;--on whom it will, it will;
    On whom it will not, so; yet still 'tis just."
                (Ib.)

Ulysses, in "Troilus and Cressida" (Act 1, Sc. 3), delivers a long panegyric upon authority,
rank, and degree, which may be taken as Shakespeare's confession of faith:

         "Degree being vizarded,
    Th' unworthiest shews as fairly in the mask.

There is no hint in this eloquent apostrophe of the difficulty of determining among men who
shall be the sun and who the satellite, nor of the fact that the actual arrangements, in Shakespeare's
time, at any rate, depended altogether upon that very force which Ulysses deprecates. In another
scene in the same play the wily Ithacan again gives way to his passion for authority and eulogizes
somewhat extravagantly the paternal, prying, omnipresent State:

    "The providence that's in a watchful state
     Knows almost every grain of Plutus' gold,
     Finds bottom in th' incomprehensive deeps,
     Keeps place with thought, and almost, like the gods,
     Does thoughts unveil in their dumb cradles.
     There is a mystery (with which relation
     Durst never meddle) in the soul of state,
     Which hath an operation more divine
     Than breath or pen can give expressure to."
                (Act 3, Sc. 3.)

The State to which Ulysses refers is of course a monarchical State, and
the idea of democracy is abhorrent to Shakespeare.
                (Ib.
                (Ib.)

Junius Brutus tries in vain to argue with him, but Coriolanus has no patience with him, a "triton
of the minnows"; and the very fact that there should be tribunes appointed for the people disgusts
him--

    "Five tribunes to defend their vulgar wisdoms,
     Of their own choice; one's Junius Brutus,
     Sicinus Velutus, and I know not--'Sdeath!
     The rabble should have first unroofed the city,
     Ere so prevailed with me; it will in time
     Win upon power, and throw forth greater themes."

And again:

    "The common file, a plague!--Tribunes for them!"
                (Act 1, Sc. 6.)

Shakespeare took his material for the drama of "Coriolanus" from Plutarch's "Lives," and it
is significant that he selected from that list of worthies the most conspicuous adversary of
the commonalty that Rome produced. He presents him to us as a hero, and, so far as he can,
enlists our sympathy for him from beginning to end. When Menenius says of him:

    "His nature is too noble for the world,"
                (Act 3, Sc. 1.)

he is evidently but registering the verdict of the author. Plutarch's treatment of Coriolanus
is far different. He exhibits his fine qualities, but he does not hesitate to speak of his
"imperious temper and that savage manner which was too haughty for a republic." "Indeed," he
adds, "there is no other advantage to be had from a liberal education equal to that of polishing
and softening our nature by reason and discipline." He also tells us that Coriolanus indulged
his "irascible passions on a supposition that they have something great and exalted in them,"
and that he wanted "a due mixture of gravity and mildness, which are the chief political virtues
and the fruits of reason and education." "He never dreamed that such obstinacy is rather the
effect of the weakness and effeminacy of a distempered mind, which breaks out in violent passions
like so many tumors." Nor apparently did Shakespeare ever dream of it either, altho he had
Plutarch's sage observations before him. It is a pity that the great dramatist did not select
from Plutarch's works some hero who took the side of the people, some Agis or Cleomenes, or,
better yet, one of the Gracchi. What a tragedy he might have based on the life of Tiberius,
the friend of the people and the martyr in their cause! But the spirit which guided Schiller
in the choice of William Tell for a hero was a stranger to Shakespeare's heart, and its promptings
would have met with no response there.

Even more striking is the treatment which the author of "Coriolanus" metes out to English history.
All but two of his English historical dramas are devoted to the War of the Roses and the incidental
struggle over the French crown. The motive of this prolonged strife--so attractive to Shakespeare--had
much the same dignity which distinguishes the family intrigues of the Sublime Porte, and Shakespeare
presents the history of his country as a mere pageant of warring royalties and their trains.
When the people are permitted to appear, as they do in Cade's rebellion, to which Shakespeare
has assigned the character of the rising under Wat Tyler, they are made the subject of burlesque.
Two of the popular party speak as follows:

       "John Holland. Well, I say, it was never merry world in
     England since gentlemen came up.

       George Bevis. O miserable age! Virtue is not regarded in
     handicraftsmen.

       John. The nobility think scorn to go in leather aprons."

When Jack Cade, alias Wat Tyler, comes on the scene, he shows himself to be a braggart and
a fool. He says:

     "Be brave then, for your captain is brave and vows
     reformation. All
     the realm shall be in common, and in Cheapside shall my
     palfrey go to grass. And when I am king asking I will be--

       All. God save your majesty!

       Cade. I thank you, good people--there shall be no money; all
     shall eat and drink on my score, and I will apparel them all
     in one livery, that they may agree like brothers and worship
     me their lord."
                (Henry VI., Part 2, Act 4, Sc. 2.)

The crowd wishes to kill the clerk of Chatham because he can read, write, and cast accounts.
(Cade. "O monstrous!") Sir Humphrey Stafford calls them

    "Rebellious hinds, the filth and scum of Kent,
     Marked for the gallows."
                (Ib.)

Clifford succeeds without much difficulty in turning the enmity of the mob against France,
and Cade ejaculates disconsolately, "Was ever a feather so lightly blown to and fro as this
multitude?" (Ib., Act 4, Sc. 8.) In the stage directions of this scene, Shakespeare shows his
own opinion of the mob by writing, "Enter Cade and his rabblement." One looks in vain here
as in the Roman plays for a suggestion that poor people sometimes suffer wrongfully from hunger
and want, that they occasionally have just grievances, and that their efforts to present them,
so far from being ludicrous, are the most serious parts of history, beside which the struttings
of kings and courtiers sink into insignificance.

One of the popular songs in Tyler's rebellion was the familiar couplet:

