"Poor Mona, I don't believe she was half as bad as she made herself out to be, an' certainly
from that day to this I've never heard a complaint or a murmur cross her lips. She's been sick,
too, most all the time, an' there's been many a day when she'd ought to be home in bed but
off she'd go an' stand on her corner an' peddle her apples because the old woman that lived
with her was sicker than she an' they wouldn't have no money, come rent day, unless Mona went
out an' earned it for 'em. Talk about the heroes that done such wonderful things that folks
has to write whole books about 'em! I tell you what, child, there's many a hero hid away in
the dirty little side-streets and alley-ways of every big city; only folks don't know about
'em. To my mind, Mona was one of them heroes; so sweet an' patient, pretty well on in years
herself, an' all crippled with the rheumatism, but goin' out day after day to sell her apples;
a slavin' an' a killin' herself for a woman a little older an' a little sicker than she was.
An' all this because the old woman had been kind to her in her hour of greatest need.

"Well, after findin' her again, I seen Mona every day; she used to come here in the evenin'
an' we'd sit an' talk of them that was gone. She was with me when my Danny died, an' she thanked
God with me for havin' brought him back to me in the end. Then, one night, Mona didn't come,
but they brought me a message sayin' she was in the hospital, dyin' from an accident, an' wanted
to see me right away. I didn't let the grass grow under my feet you may be sure, an' before
long I stood beside the bed where she was lyin', her poor, pale face all drawn with sufferin'.
I've called her a hero for the life she'd led, an' her end was sure enough a hero's end. That
afternoon a child had started to run across the street at the corner where Mona's apple-stand
was. He didn't see the horse an' team that come tearin' up the street, an' the driver was too
busy lashin' the horse to see the child. In spite of her rheumatism, Mona dashed in front of
the team, and with a quick shove, sent the child flyin' out of harm's away. He rolled over
an' over on the street, but beyond a scratch or two wasn't hurt. But Mona fell an' the team
passed over her ankles crushin' both of 'em badly. Her age an' the shock, together with her
injury, made 'em sure she couldn't live long. The chaplain had been sent for, they told me,
an' would come at any moment now.

"She was sleepin' when I reached her, so I sat down beside the bed an' waited. The priest come
an' stood lookin' down at her, an' the kindness an' pity on his face was wonderful to see.
He looked at me an' I fair jumped out of my chair with the shock his eyes sent through me.

"'Glory be to God!' I says, blessin' myself, for I was all a tremble with the fright of it.
'Sure it's Michael Conners himself come back from the dead.'

"That very minute Mona's eyes opened slowly an' fixed themselves on the priest's face. A smile
that brought the tears to my eyes, it was that beautiful, crossed her face an' she held out
her thin, white hand to him, whisperin', 'Michael.' Then she closed her eyes again an' was
off unconscious once more.

"The priest looked first at her, then at me, an' his face was all puzzled an' amazed like.

"'How do you know that my name is Michael Conners?' says he.

"'How do you know it yourself, Father?' says I, for I had my suspicions by that time.

"'Because of this,' says he, showin' me a strangely carved little black wooden crucifix attached
to his beads. 'This was on my neck when I was saved from the wreck in which my father an' mother
perished.'

"'Well,' says I, 'you're wrong. 'Tain't Michael, but Gerald, is your name, an' praise be the
Lord but this'll be the happy day for my poor Mona when she finds out the truth. That crucifix
with the name of Michael Conners on it was given to your father on his marriage day by the
priest that married him. Here's the mate to it that he give your mother on the same day,' an'
I picked up Mona's rosary lyin' on the bed an' showed him the cross on it. They was as like
as two peas, only on the back of hers was carved the name of Mona Conners.

"Well, we had to break the news to her gently, an' it's the happy woman she was for the next
few days in spite of all the pain she suffered. She'd just lie there holdin' Gerald's hand
an' gazin' at him an' makin' him tell over an' over again of how he'd been saved from the wreck.
He was only a wee lad of three at the time, but he could still remember of his father standin'
there on the deck of the sinkin' ship an' holdin' him in his arms. He could still hear the
words his father spoke to him an' feel the father's hand slippin' the rosary over his head
an' claspin' the little fingers around the cross as it lay on his breast. Michael had passed
him to a sailor an' he was lowered into one of the boats, where a kind-hearted woman took compassion
on his loneliness an' cared for him. They'd been picked up by a sailin' vessel bound for France,
an' the woman who first cared for him, took him with her from France to America an' finally
adopted him. She brought him up, educated him, an' at last he became a priest of God.

"He was with his mother to the very end, an' it was his hand that give her the last blessin'
of the Church an' his voice recited the prayers that send the departin' soul safe on its journey
to the throne of God. It's the happy woman my Mona was in them last few days upon earth, an'
it's the happy woman she is this day, all her troubles over, all her sufferin's gone, an' she
in Paradise for ever an' ever."

During Nancy's recital, the shadows of twilight had gathered and deepened, and now her little
kitchen was wrapped in darkness. Still, she sat for several moments buried in thought which
I cared not to interrupt. Then, with a sigh, she rose to light the lamp and I noticed that
tears filled her eyes though the brave lips were smiling.

"Yes, yes," she repeated. "God's ways are wonderful, they are that. Even if we don't understand
things in this world, we're sure to in the next, for the Lord knows His own business best every
time."

PATSY.

Patsy was wide awake in a second. What was it those men were talking about; what was it they
were planning to do? That name, and "the brown house on the hill"! By a strong effort, he kept
his eyes closed and breathed regularly and deeply as though still sleeping. He must not let
them suspect that he was listening, but he must catch every word they said, every word. How
he hated them, this band of rascals that had gotten his David into their clutches and were
slowly but surely making him as bad as they! His David bad? No, no! David was kind and good
and gentle to him always. David was not bad, he would not listen to their dreadful scheme.
He would refuse to help them; surely he would. His David a thief? It was impossible. But that
dreadful plan they were discussing! "The brown house on the hill"; "to-morrow night"; and David
was promising to go with them.

Patsy shivered beneath the bedclothes and bitter tears gathered in his eyes and trickled down
the pale, sunken cheeks. The men were leaving and David was renewing his promise to accompany
the expedition to the brown house on the hill to-morrow night. In fact, he was to act as guide
to the man appointed to commit the deed, for who, so well as David, could show them the way
to the library in which was the safe that they were going to rob?

They had gone now and Patsy felt that David was standing beside the bed and looking down at
him. He opened his eyes and two more tears escaped, which he hastily brushed away. Immediately
David was on his knees, the little cripple's hand clasped tenderly in his.

