Eld. B. We were talking about the school, and why we go there. I told my brother that I went
because I like to go. Will you please to tell us the advantages of attendance on the Sabbath
school?

Teach. I will, my dear boys, so far as I can. It is well to know what we are doing, how we
are accomplishing our work, and what is to be the result of our labors.

Eld. B. I am very often asked what I learn at the Sabbath school, and I sometimes answer that
I learn what there is in the Bible, and that my lessons are subjects derived principally from
that book.

Teach. You answer rightly so far. You might add, also, that you learn by the example of others.
Do you see punctuality? You will learn to be punctual. Do you see system in the arrangement
of the school, in the method of instruction, in the library department, and in the general
discipline of the school? You will be orderly and correct in your deportment.

Eld. B. As I am almost old enough to be a teacher, and desire to take a class as soon as I
am wanted, I should like to know the best way to make my scholars interested in their studies,
so that they will attend and be correct with their lessons.

Teach. It is often the case that children feel no interest or pleasure in the school, because
they do not understand its object. They may recite well, so far as to repeat the words of the
lesson, yet if it be above their capacity, they will not be benefited.

Eld. B. This has been the case with me sometimes. After I had recited my lesson correctly by
the book, I have felt that I did not know much about it, and did not understand what I had
learned to repeat.

Teach. It is of great importance in teaching that the subject should be presented to the pupil
in the simplest form possible, that he may be profited by his instructions. I read an anecdote
the other day which illustrates this matter, and I will repeat it to you. "It is related of
Dr. Green, of Philadelphia, that in early life he was one day returning from the services of
the sanctuary, and was accosted by a woman in the humble walks of life. She found difficulty
in understanding him, and took the liberty of giving her youthful pastor a hint. 'Mr. Green,'
says she 'what do you think is the great duty of the shepherd?' 'No doubt, to feed the flock,
madam,' was the reply. 'That is my notion too,' she added, 'and therefore I think he should
not hold the hay so high that the sheep cannot reach it.' This admonition was kindly received,
in the spirit in which it was given, and had an influence in making him afterwards 'hold the
hay lower.'" This fact should cause you to see to it, as the old lady did with her pastor,
that your teachers present their instructions in such a form that you will understand them.
The hay may be of very good quality, but it will give no nourishment to the hungry sheep if
it is beyond their reach; it will not benefit them any more than if it were not provided at
all. So with your lessons. If you do not feel an interest in them, if they are beyond your
reach, they may be of no benefit to you. No lasting principle is gained, but the whole may
be lost, as the words of the lesson are lost to memory and forgotten.

Eld. B. What are the results of attendance on the Sabbath school?

Teach. That question we answer, partly in faith, and partly by knowledge. Faith is good;--and
we know that our school is a good school; we know that we enjoy ourselves there; and we know
what is learned there is good. It is there that divine influences and joyful communions fill
with gladness the hour. We enjoy them, and if we could say no more, we think that this would
be sufficient.

Eld. B. That is true.

Teach. But that is not all; the results go still further. They are not confined to the hour
passed in the schoolroom. The scholar is better and happier for having been there. Is it not
so with you?

Eld. B. Yes sir; I always feel better when I have been to the school. When I have said my lesson,
conversed upon the subject of it, and obtained my library book, I am always glad to have been
there.

Teach. Your answer is full of hope and promise; for if you now find your enjoyment in learning
the things of the Kingdom of God, those evil days will never come to you, when you will say
you have no pleasure in them. The Sabbath school scholar who is prompt in his duty is in a
safe path,--one which, while affording happiness by the way, results in the fulness of joy.
To him the example of Christ is an example of love and goodness, drawing him to the Father
by these divine influences and attractions. "He sees God, not only as the Creator, but as he
is manifested in the world, by his providence, which shows us that he not only made the world,
but that he makes the world; that he is the same in the creation of the flowers and streams
as in the creation of storms and tempests; that he is not far off, but near, ever blessing
us with the favors of his parental providence; that his power is over everything; that motion
is his power, for there can be no motion without mind; that God is present in the child. It
cannot live by bread alone. Communion must be held with God--spirit with spirit."

It is recorded of our Savior that he was led into the waters, and was buried in baptism; the
Spirit descended upon him; he heard the encouragement of that voice which proclaimed his Sonship
to the Most High, and in the enjoyment of that holy time he came up from the river. Then came
the tempter; in the strength of the spirit of the baptism, he resisted the temptation, and
was victorious over all its forms. So with the object and mission of our Sabbath schools. You
are led to the river of divine truth, that you may be baptized in its pure waters. You are
there shown the Father, and we trust that when you go out into the world, you will, in the
strength of your Sabbath school baptism, resist and overcome all temptation to wrong, and being
always engaged for the right, and living in the light of the gospel, you will pass through
life undefined; thus may a Christian character be the result of your attendance on the Sabbath
school.

FEAR OF DEATH.

He who rightly understands life, will not fear death, he who has learned to trust, will never
cease to hope. He who always cherishes a love of right, will never be without God in the world.

Treasures.--Knowledge and virtue are the greatest treasures in the universe.

Gratitude.--Every faithful Sabbath school teacher has the unfailing gratitude of his class.

Faith is the eye with which the mind surveys the future.

ILL TEMPER.

It was the season of vacation, when children's minds are given to play, instead of study. It
was during this interval, that a little girl, whom we will call Jane, came from a neighboring
town to visit one of her school-mates, another little girl, whose name we will call Emily.

The disposition of Emily was very different from that of Jane. She was always pleasant and
kind, willing to confer favors upon others, even though she should not receive the same in
return. Jane was ill-tempered, told wrong stories, and did many things which rendered her a
very disagreeable companion. Her parents could see no fault in her, therefore she was permitted
to give way to her temper, which was the cause of her losing friends and gaining enemies. When
she was in these violent fits of passion she would accuse her companions of things which would
wound their feelings very much. During vacation, Emily accepted an invitation which had been
given her to spend a few days with Jane.

She enjoyed herself very much while there and invited Jane to come and see her. Soon after
Jane went to visit Emily. The first part of the time, she enjoyed very much; but as her visit
was drawing to a close, she gave way to a violent fit of temper. She took this opportunity
to relate to Emily many things her parents said about her after she had left them. She told
her that if she knew what her father and mother said about her, she would never visit them
again. Whether they did talk about her, or whether it was Jane's ugly temper, that led her
to taunt Emily, I do not know. But it caused Emily to feel very much grieved, because she was
not conscious of having done anything which would cause them to talk about her. Emily has never
visited Jane since, nor has she desired to. She thinks that those who treat her well when she
is present and talk about her when she is absent, cannot be her true friends. Thus we see that
those who govern their temper, and endeavor to make themselves pleasant and agreeable, are
much more loved and respected than those who give way to this wicked passion.

READING.

In my experience, both as teacher and scholar, I have observed among the young those who read
a great many books, but at the end appear but little wiser. They may have a confused and indistinct
recollection of events and characters, and may be able perhaps to follow out the plan of a
story. Out of the mass that they have read they may have retained a great many facts; but being
without connection or object, they are nearly useless. Bad habits are formed, their reading
is to no purpose, and their time, therefore, misspent.

I fear there are too few among those whose years should enable them to understand and appreciate
the objects for which we live, that do appreciate them. There are too many who suppose that
reading is only a very pleasant amusement. They think of printing as a very ingenious invention,
and have no thought higher. They may look about and see a great deal of misery and unhappiness;
but its alleviation is nothing to them. "The great mission of life" is something that is very
well to be talked of in the pulpit, and ministers and reformers will accomplish it, no doubt.
But life has no responsibilities for them.

One of our first duties is to seek our own moral and intellectual culture. Let both these portions
of our nature be cultivated together. Do not separate them, for by so doing both are threatened
with danger. Heart without mind is generally weak, but mind without heart is always dangerous.
Do not suppose because you have left the schoolroom and no longer have lessons set, and are
no longer reprimanded if they are not committed, that your education is finished. Rather regard
the school as the place where you shall learn to study, life as your term-time, and consider
your education finished when there is nothing more for you to learn. It is not necessary that
study should be confined to books. Accustom yourself to study actions and their influences
and effects. Public lectures, conversations, in short, every event of your life, will present
questions, and your own mind, with a little reflection, will present the answers. If it does
not, do not let the fear of ridicule prevent your asking.

But it is through books, chiefly, that we are to look for improvement. Every person should
appropriate some part of each day to reading. Young persons should early be taught the advantages
of a method for appropriating their time. Let each duty have its time. In this way much time
is saved. Let the time you appropriate to reading be one that will be the least liable to interruption.
Defer it not, if it can be avoided, till late in the evening, when you are wearied with the
fatigues of the day.

