2nd (Lord's day).  Wife took physick this day, I all day at home, and all the morning setting
my books in order in my presses, for the following year, their number being much increased
since the last, so as I am fain to lay by several books to make room for better, being resolved
to keep no more than just my presses will contain.  At noon to dinner, my wife coming down
to me, and a very good dinner we had, of a powdered leg of pork and a loin of lamb roasted,
and with much content she and I and Deb. After dinner, my head combed an hour, and then to
work again, and at it, doing many things towards the setting my accounts and papers in order,
and so in the evening Mr. Pelling supping with us, and to supper, and so to bed.

3rd.  Up, and to the office, where with my clerks all the morning very busy about several things
there wherein I was behindhand.  At noon home to dinner, and thence after dinner to the Duke
of York's house, to the play, "The Tempest," which we have often seen, but yet I was pleased
again, and shall be again to see it, it is so full of variety, and particularly this day I
took pleasure to learn the tune of the seaman's dance, which I have much desired to be perfect
in, and have made myself so.  So home with my wife and Deb., and there at the office met to
my trouble with a warrant from the Commissioners of Accounts for my attending them and Cocke
two days hence, which I apprehend by Captain Cocke's being to go also, to be about the prizes.
But, however, there is nothing of crime can be laid to my charge, and the worst that can be
is to refund my L500 profit, and who can help it.  So I resolve not to be troubled at it, though
I fear I cannot bear it so, my spirit being very poor and mean as to the bearing with trouble
that I do find of myself. So home, and there to my chamber and did some business,--and thence
to supper and to bed.

4th.  Up, and to the office, where a full Board sat all the morning, busy among other things
concerning a solemn letter we intend to write to the Duke of York about the state of the things
of the Navy, for want of money, though I doubt it will be to little purpose.  After dinner
I abroad by coach to Kate Joyce's, where the jury did sit where they did before, about her
husband's death, and their verdict put off for fourteen days longer, at the suit of somebody,
under pretence of the King; but it is only to get money out of her to compound the matter.
But the truth is, something they will make out of Stillingfleete's sermon, which may trouble
us, he declaring, like a fool, in his pulpit, that he did confess that his losses in the world
did make him do what he did.  This do vex me to see how foolish our Protestant Divines are,
while the Papists do make it the duty of Confessor to be secret, or else nobody would confess
their sins to them.  All being put off for to-day, I took my leave of Kate, who is mightily
troubled at it for her estate sake, not for her husband; for her sorrow for that, I perceive,
is all over.  I home, and, there to my office busy till the evening, and then home, and there
my wife and Deb. and I and Betty Turner, I employed in the putting new titles to my books,
which we proceeded on till midnight, and then being weary and late to bed.

5th.  Up, and I to Captain Cocke's, where he and I did discourse of our
business that we are to go about to the Commissioners of Accounts about
our prizes, and having resolved to conceal nothing but to confess the
truth, the truth being likely to do us most good, we parted, and I to
White Hall, where missing of the Commissioners of the Treasury, I to the
Commissioners of Accounts, where I was forced to stay two hours before I
was called in, and when come in did take an oath to declare the truth to
what they should ask me, which is a great power; I doubt more than the Act
do, or as some say can, give them, to force a man to swear against
himself; and so they fell to enquire about the business of prize-goods,
wherein I did answer them as well as I could, answer them in everything
the just truth, keeping myself to that.  I do perceive at last, that, that
they did lay most like a fault to me was, that I did buy goods upon my
Lord Sandwich's declaring that it was with the King's allowance, and my
believing it, without seeing the King's allowance, which is a thing I will
own, and doubt not to justify myself in.  That that vexed me most was,
their having some watermen by, to witness my saying that they were rogues
that they had betrayed my goods, which was upon some discontent with one
of the watermen that I employed at Greenwich, who I did think did discover
the goods sent from Rochester to the Custom-House officer; but this can do
me no great harm.  They were inquisitive into the minutest particulars,
and the evening great information; but I think that they can do me no
hurt, at the worst, more than to make me refund, if it must be known, what
profit I did make of my agreement with Captain Cocke; and yet, though this
be all, I do find so poor a spirit within me, that it makes me almost out
of my wits, and puts me to so much pain, that I cannot think of anything,
nor do anything but vex and fret, and imagine myself undone, so that I am
ashamed of myself to myself, and do fear what would become of me if any
real affliction should come upon me.  After they had done with me, they
called in Captain Cocke, with whom they were shorter; and I do fear he may
answer foolishly, for he did speak to me foolishly before he went in; but
I hope to preserve myself, and let him shift for himself as well as he
can.  So I away, walked to my flageolet maker in the Strand, and there
staid for Captain Cocke, who took me up and carried me home, and there
coming home and finding dinner done, and Mr. Cooke, who come for my Lady
Sandwich's plate, which I must part with, and so endanger the losing of my
money, which I lent upon my thoughts of securing myself by that plate.
But it is no great sum--but L60: and if it must be lost, better that, than
a greater sum.  I away back again, to find a dinner anywhere else, and so
I, first, to the Ship Tavern, thereby to get a sight of the pretty
mistress of the house, with whom I am not yet acquainted at all, and I do
always find her scolding, and do believe she is an ill-natured devil, that
I have no great desire to speak to her. Here I drank, and away by coach to
the Strand, there to find out Mr. Moore, and did find him at the Bell Inn,
and there acquainted him with what passed between me and the Commissioners
to-day about the prize goods, in order to the considering what to do about
my Lord Sandwich, and did conclude to own the thing to them as done by the
King's allowance, and since confirmed.  The warrant for
     a pardon to George, Duke of Buckingham, is dated January 27th, 1668;
     and on the following day was issued, "Warrant for a grant to
     Francis, Earl of Shrewsbury, of pardon for killing William Jenkins,
     and for all duels, assaults, or batteries on George, Duke of
     Buckingham, Sir John Talbot, Sir Robert Holmes, or any other,
     whether indicted or not for the same, with restitution of lands,
     goods, &c."  Thence, after
eating a lobster for my dinner, having eat nothing to-day, we broke up,
here coming to us Mr. Townsend of the Wardrobe, who complains of the
Commissioners of the Treasury as very severe against my Lord Sandwich, but
not so much as they complain of him for a fool and a knave, and so I let
him alone, and home, carrying Mr. Moore as far as Fenchurch Street, and I
home, and there being vexed in my mind about my prize businesses I to my
chamber, where my wife and I had much talk of W. Hewer, she telling me
that he is mightily concerned for my not being pleased with him, and is
herself mightily concerned, but I have much reason to blame him for his
little assistance he gives me in my business, not being able to copy out a
letter with sense or true spelling that makes me mad, and indeed he is in
that regard of as little use to me as the boy, which troubles me, and I
would have him know it,--and she will let him know it.  By and by to
supper, and so to bed, and slept but ill all night, my mind running like a
fool on my prize business, which according to my reason ought not to
trouble me at all.

6th.  So I got a coach, and a humour took us, and I carried them to Hercules Pillars, and there
did give them a kind of a supper of about 7s., and very merry, and home round the town, not
through the ruines; and it was pretty how the coachman by mistake drives us into the ruines
from London-wall into Coleman Street: and would persuade me that I lived there.  And the truth
is, I did think that he and the linkman had contrived some roguery; but it proved only a mistake
of the coachman; but it was a cunning place to have done us a mischief in, as any I know, to
drive us out of the road into the ruines, and there stop, while nobody could be called to help
us.  But we come safe home, and there, the girls being gone home, I to the office, where a
while busy, my head not being wholly free of my trouble about my prize business, I home to
bed.  This evening coming home I did put my hand under the coats of Mercer and did touch her
thigh, but then she did put by my hand and no hurt done, but talked and sang and was merry.

7th.  Up, and to the office, to the getting of my books in order, to carry to the Commissioners
of Accounts this morning.  Thence to the Commissioners of Accounts, and there presented my
books, and was made to sit down, and used with much respect, otherwise than the other day,
when I come to them as a criminal about the business of the prizes.  I sat here with them a
great while, while my books were inventoried.  And here do hear from them by discourse that
they are like to undo the Treasurer's instruments of the Navy by making it a rule that they
shall repay all money paid to wrong parties, which is a thing not to be supported by these
poor creatures the Treasurer's instruments, as it is also hard for seamen to be ruined by their
paying money to whom they please.  I know not what will be the issue of it.  I find these gentlemen
to sit all day, and only eat a bit of bread at noon, and a glass of wine; and are resolved
to go through their business with great severity and method.  Thence I, about two o'clock,
to Westminster Hall, by appointment, and there met my cozen Roger again, and Mr. Jackson, who
is a plain young man, handsome enough for Pall, one of no education nor discourse, but of few
words, and one altogether that, I think, will please me well enough.  My cozen had got me to
give the odd sixth L100 presently, which I intended to keep to the birth of the first child:
and let it go--I shall be eased of the care, and so, after little talk, we parted, resolving
to dine together at my house tomorrow.  However, it is good. Having done here, my Lord Brouncker,
and W. Pen, and I, and with us Sir Arnold Breames, to the King's playhouse, and there saw a
piece of "Love in a Maze," a dull, silly play, I think; and after the play, home with W. Pen
and his son Lowther, whom we met there, and then home and sat most of the evening with my wife
and Mr. Pelting, talking, my head being full of business of one kind or other, and most such
as do not please me, and so to supper and to bed.

8th.  Up, and to the office, where sat all day, and at noon home, and there find cozen Roger
and Jackson by appointment come to dine with me, and Creed, and very merry, only Jackson hath
few words, and I like him never the worse for it. We had a great deal of good discourse at
table, and after dinner we four men took coach, and they set me down at the Old Exchange, and
they home, having discoursed nothing today with cozen or Jackson about our business. I to Captain
Cocke's, and there discoursed over our business of prizes, and I think I shall go near to state
the matter so as to secure myself without wrong to him, doing nor saying anything but the very
truth. Thence home, and busy late at the office, and then home to supper and to bed.  My wife
well pleased with my sister's match, and designing how to be merry at their marriage.  And
I am well at ease in my mind to think that that care will be over.  This night calling at the
Temple, at the Auditor's, his man told me that he heard that my account must be brought to
the view of the Commissioners of Tangier before it can be passed, which though I know no hurt
in it, yet it troubled me lest there should be any or any designed by them who put this into
the head of the Auditor, I suppose Auditor Beale, or Creed, because they saw me carrying my
account another way than by them.

9th (Lord's day).  Up, and at my chamber all the morning and the office doing business, and
also reading a little of "L'escholle des filles," which is a mighty lewd book, but yet not
amiss for a sober man once to read over to inform himself in the villainy of the world.  At
noon home to dinner, where by appointment Mr. Pelting come and with him three friends, Wallington,
that sings the good base, and one Rogers, and a gentleman, a young man, his name Tempest, who
sings very well indeed, and understands anything in the world at first sight.  After dinner
we into our dining-room, and there to singing all the afternoon.  (By the way, I must remember
that Pegg Pen was brought to bed yesterday of a girl; and, among other things, if I have not
already set it down, that hardly ever was remembered such a season for the smallpox as these
last two months have been, people being seen all up and down the streets, newly come out after
the smallpox.) But though they sang fine things, yet I must confess that I did take no pleasure
in it, or very little, because I understood not the words, and with the rests that the words
are set, there is no sense nor understanding in them though they be English, which makes me
weary of singing in that manner, it being but a worse sort of instrumental musick. We sang
until almost night, and drank mighty good store of wine, and then they parted, and I to my
chamber, where I did read through "L'escholle des filles," a lewd book, but what do no wrong
once to read for information sake .  .  .  .  And after I had done it I burned it, that it
might not be among my books to my shame, and so at night to supper and to bed.

10th.
Thence with Creed home to my house to dinner, where I met with Mr.
Jackson, and find my wife angry with Deb., which vexes me.  After dinner
by coach away to Westminster; taking up a friend of Mr. Jackson's, a young
lawyer, and parting with Creed at White Hall.  They and I to Westminster
Hall, and there met Roger Pepys, and with him to his chamber, and there
read over and agreed upon the Deed of Settlement to our minds: my sister
to have L600 presently, and she to be joyntured in L60 per annum; wherein
I am very well satisfied.  His career was a most singular one, he
     having been twice removed from the Bench, and twice imprisoned by
     the House of Commons.  He twice returned to the bar, and after his
     second return he practised with great success as a serjeant for the
     next fourteen years till his death, June 10th, 1697.  Evelyn says,
     "He was held to be the most learned of the judges and an honest man"
     ("Diary," October 4th, 1683).]

an able lawyer, about the business of our prizes, and left the matter with him to think of
against to-morrow, this being a matter that do much trouble my mind, though there be no fault
in it that I need fear the owning that I know of.  Thence with Cocke home to his house and
there left him, and I home, and there got my wife to read a book I bought to-day, and come
out to-day licensed by Joseph Williamson for Lord Arlington, shewing the state of England's
affairs relating to France at this time, and the whole body of the book very good and solid,
after a very foolish introduction as ever I read, and do give a very good account of the advantage
of our league with Holland at this time.  So, vexed in my mind with the variety of cares I
have upon me, and so to bed.

11th.  At the office all the morning, where comes a damned summons to attend the Committee
of Miscarriages to-day, which makes me mad, that I should by my place become the hackney of
this Office, in perpetual trouble and vexation, that need it least.  At noon home to dinner,
where little pleasure, my head being split almost with the variety of troubles upon me at this
time, and cares, and after dinner by coach to Westminster Hall, and sent my wife and Deb. to
see "Mustapha" acted.  Here I brought a book to the Committee, and do find them; and particularly
Sir Thomas Clarges, mighty hot in the business of tickets, which makes me mad to see them bite
at the stone, and not at the hand that flings it, and here my Lord Brouncker unnecessarily
orders it that he is called in to give opportunity to present his report of the state of the
business of paying by ticket, which I do not think will do him any right, though he was made
believe that it did operate mightily, and that Sir Fresh. Hollis did make a mighty harangue
and to much purpose in his defence, but I believe no such effects of it, for going in afterward
I did hear them speak with prejudice of it, and that his pleading of the Admiral's warrant
for it now was only an evasion, if not an aspersion upon the Admirall, and therefore they would
not admit of this his report, but go on with their report as they had resolved before.  The
orders they sent for this day was the first order that I have yet met with about this business,
and was of my own single hand warranting, but I do think it will do me no harm, and therefore
do not much trouble myself with it, more than to see how much trouble I am brought to who have
best deported myself in all the King's business. Thence with Lord Brouncker, and set him down
at Bow Streete, and so to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw the last act for nothing,
where I never saw such good acting of any creature as Smith's part of Zanger; and I do also,
though it was excellently acted by---------, do yet want Betterton mightily.  Thence to the
Temple, to Porter's chamber, where Cocke met me, and after a stay there some time, they two
and I to Pemberton's chamber, and there did read over the Act of calling people to account,
and did discourse all our business of the prizes; and, upon the whole, he do make it plainly
appear, that there is no avoiding to give these Commissioners satisfaction in everything they
will ask; and that there is fear lest they may find reason to make us refund for all the extraordinary
profit made by those bargains; and do make me resolve rather to declare plainly, and, once
for all, the truth of the whole, and what my profit hath been, than be forced at last to do
it, and in the meantime live in gain, as I must always do: and with this resolution on my part
I departed, with some more satisfaction of mind, though with less hopes of profit than I expected.
Thence to Porter's chamber, where Captain Cocke had fetched my wife out of the coach, and there
we staid and talked and drank, he being a very generous, good-humoured man, and so away by
coach, setting Cocke at his house, and we with his coach home, and there I to the office, and
there till past one in the morning, and so home to supper and to bed, my mind at pretty good
ease, though full of care and fear of loss. This morning my wife in bed told me the story of
our Tom and Jane:--how the rogue did first demand her consent to love and marry him, and then,
with pretence of displeasing me, did slight her; but both he and she have confessed the matter
to her, and she hath charged him to go on with his love to her, and be true to her, and so
I think the business will go on, which, for my love to her, because she is in love with him,
I am pleased with; but otherwise I think she will have no good bargain of it, at least if I
should not do well in my place.  But if I do stand, I do intend to give her L50 in money, and
do them all the good I can in my way.

12th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning drawing up my narrative of my proceedings
and concernments in the buying of prize-goods, which I am to present to the Committee for Accounts;
and being come to a resolution to conceal nothing from them, I was at great ease how to draw
it up without any inventions or practise to put me to future pain or thoughts how to carry
on, and now I only discover what my profit was, and at worst I suppose I can be made but to
refund my profit and so let it go. At noon home to dinner, where Mr. Jackson dined with me,
and after dinner I (calling at the Excise Office, and setting my wife and Deb. at her tailor's)
did with Mr. Jackson go to find my cozen Roger Pepys, which I did in the Parliament House,
where I met him and Sir Thomas Crew and Mr. George Montagu, who are mighty busy how to save
my Lord's name from being in the Report for anything which the Committee is commanded to report
to the House of the miscarriages of the late war.  I find they drive furiously still in the
business of tickets, which is nonsense in itself and cannot come to any thing.  So away, and
took up my wife, and setting Jackson down at Fetter Lane end, I to the old Exchange to look
Mr. Houblon, but, not finding him, did go home, and there late writing a letter to my Lord
Sandwich, and to give passage to a letter of great moment from Mr. Godolphin to him, which
I did get speedy passage for by the help of Mr. Houblon, who come late to me, and there directed
the letter to Lisbon under cover of his, and here we talked of the times, which look very sad
and distracted, and made good mirth at this day's passage in the House, and so parted; and
going to the gate with him, I found his lady and another fine lady sitting an hour together,
late at night, in their coach, while he was with me, which is so like my wife, that I was mighty
taken with it, though troubled for it.  So home to supper and to bed.  This day Captain Cocke
was with the Commissioners of Accounts to ask more time for his bringing in his answer about
the prize goods, and they would not give him 14 days as he asks, but would give only two days,
which was very hard, I think, and did trouble me for fear of their severity, though I have
prepared my matter so as to defy it.

13th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, and thence with
my wife and Deb. to White Hall, setting, them at her tailor's, and I to the Commissioners of
the Treasury, where myself alone did argue the business of the East India Company against their
whole Company on behalf of the King before the Lords Commissioners, and to very good effect,
I think, and with reputation.  That business being over, the Lords and I had other things to
talk about, and among the rest, about our making more assignments on the Exchequer since they
bid us hold, whereat they were extraordinary angry with us, which troubled me a little, though
I am not concerned in it at all.  The heading of this entry is "Livery for ye jester"  Thence
took up my wife, and home, and there busy late at the office writing letters, and so home to
supper and to bed. The House was called over to-day.  Up, being called up by Mercer, who come
to be my Valentine, and so I rose and my wife, and were merry a little, I staying to talk,
and did give her a guinny in gold for her Valentine's gift. There comes also my cozen Roger
Pepys betimes, and comes to my wife, for her to be his Valentine, whose Valentine I was also,
by agreement to be so to her every year; and this year I find it is likely to cost L4 or L5
in a ring for her, which she desires.  Cozen Roger did come also to speak with Sir W. Pen,
who was quoted, it seems, yesterday by Sir Fr. Hollis to have said that if my Lord Sandwich
had done so and so, we might have taken all the Dutch prizes at the time when he staid and
let them go. But Sir W. Pen did tell us he should say nothing in it but what would do my Lord
honour, and he is a knave I am able to prove if he do otherwise.  I prayed him to discourse
with some of the merchants that are of the Committee for Accounts, to see how they do resent
my paper, and in general my particular in the relation to the business of the Navy, which he
hath promised to do carefully for me and tell me.  Here it was a mighty pretty sight to see
old Mr. Houblon, whom I never saw before, and all his sons about him, all good merchants. 
Thence to the Temple, where at Porter's chamber I met Captain Cocke, but lost our labour, our
Counsellor not being within, Pemberton, and therefore home and late at my office, and so home
to supper and to bed.

15th.  Up betimes, and with Captain Cocke my coach to the Temple to his Counsel again about
the prize goods in order to the drawing up of his answer to them, where little done but a confirmation
that our best interest is for him to tell the whole truth, and so parted, and I home to the
office, where all the morning, and at noon home to dinner, and after dinner all the afternoon
and evening till midnight almost, and till I had tired my own backe, and my wife's, and Deb.'s,
in titleing of my books for the present year, and in setting them in order, which is now done
to my very good satisfaction, though not altogether so completely as I think they were the
last year, when my mind was more at leisure to mind it. So about midnight to bed, where my
wife taking some physic overnight it wrought with her, and those coming upon her with great
gripes, she was in mighty pain all night long, yet, God forgive me!  I did find that I was
most desirous to take my rest than to ease her, but there was nothing I could do to do her
any good with.

16th (Lord's day).  Up, and to my chamber, where all the morning making a catalogue of my books,
which did find me work, but with great pleasure, my chamber and books being now set in very
good order, and my chamber washed and cleaned, which it had not been in some months before,
my business and trouble having been so much.  At noon Mr. Holliard put in, and dined with my
wife and me, who was a little better to-day.  His company very good. His story of his love
and fortune, which hath been very good and very bad in the world, well worth hearing.  He gone,
after dinner to have my head combed, and then to my chamber and read most of the evening till
pretty late, when, my wife not being well, I did lie below stairs in our great chamber, where
I slept well.

17th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning till noon getting some things more ready
against the afternoon for the Committee of Accounts, which did give me great trouble, to see
how I am forced to dance after them in one place, and to answer Committees of Parliament in
another.  At noon thence toward the Committee, but meeting with Sir W. Warren in Fleet Street
he and I to the Ordinary by Temple Bar and there dined together, and to talk, where he do seem
to be very high now in defiance of the Board, now he says that the worst is come upon him to
have his accounts brought to the Committee of Accounts, and he do reflect upon my late coldness
to him, but upon the whole I do find that he is still a cunning fellow, and will find it necessary
to be fair to me, and what hath passed between us of coldness to hold his tongue, which do
please me very well. Thence to the Committee, where I did deliver the several things they expected
from me, with great respect and show of satisfaction, and my mind thereby eased of some care.
Some mutterings I did hear of a design of dissolving the Parliament; but I think there is no
ground for it yet, though Oliver would have dissolved them for half the trouble and contempt
these have put upon the King and his councils.  I did spend a little time at the Swan, and
there did kiss the maid, Sarah. At noon home, and there up to my wife, who is still ill, and
supped with her, my mind being mighty full of trouble for the office and my concernments therein,
and so to supper and talking with W. Hewer in her chamber about business of the office, wherein
he do well understand himself and our case, and it do me advantage to talk with him and the
rest of my people. I to bed below as I did last night.

18th.  Up by break of day, and walked down to the old Swan, where I find little Michell building,
his booth being taken down, and a foundation laid for a new house, so that that street is like
to be a very fine place.  I drank, but did not see Betty, and so to Charing Cross stairs, and
thence walked to Sir W. Coventry's,

     [Sir William Coventry's love of money is said by Sir John Denham to
     have influenced him in promoting naval officers, who paid him for
     their commissions.

               "Then Painter! draw cerulian Coventry
               Keeper, or rather Chancellor o' th' sea
               And more exactly to express his hue,
               Use nothing but ultra-mariuish blue.
               To pay his fees, the silver trumpet spends,
               And boatswain's whistle for his place depends.
               Pilots in vain repeat their compass o'er,
               Until of him they learn that one point more
               The constant magnet to the pole doth hold,
               Steel to the magnet, Coventry to gold.
               Muscovy sells us pitch, and hemp, and tar;
               Iron and copper, Sweden; Munster, war;
               Ashley, prize; Warwick, custom;
               Cart'ret, pay;
               But Coventry doth sell the fleet away."--B.]

and talked with him, who tells me how he hath been persecuted, and how he
is yet well come off in the business of the dividing of the fleete, and
the sending of the letter.  He expects next to be troubled about the
business of bad officers in the fleete, wherein he will bid them name whom
they call bad, and he will justify himself, having never disposed of any
but by the Admiral's liking.  He tells me that in discourse on Saturday he did repeat
Sir Rob. Howard's words about rowling out of counsellors, that for his
part he neither cared who they rowled in, nor who they rowled out, by
which the word is become a word of use in the House, the rowling out of
officers.  I understand by him that
we are likely to have our business of tickets voted a miscarriage, but
[he] cannot tell me what that will signify more than that he thinks they
will report them to the King and there leave them, but I doubt they will
do more.  Thence walked over St. James's Park to White Hall, and thence to
Westminster Hall, and there walked all the morning, and did speak with
several Parliament-men-among others, Birch, who is very kind to me, and
calls me, with great respect and kindness, a man of business, and he
thinks honest, and so long will stand by me, and every such man, to the
death.  My business was to instruct them to keep the House from falling
into any mistaken vote about the business of tickets, before they were
better informed.  I walked in the Hall all the morning with my Lord
Brouncker, who was in great pain there, and, the truth is, his business
is, without reason, so ill resented by the generality of the House, that I
was almost troubled to be seen to walk with him, and yet am able to
justify him in all, that he is under so much scandal for.  Here I did get
a copy of the report itself, about our paying off men by tickets; and am
mightily glad to see it, now knowing the state of our case, and what we
have to answer to, and the more for that the House is like to be kept by
other business to-day and to-morrow, so that, against Thursday, I shall be
able to draw up some defence to put into some Member's hands, to inform
them, and I think we may [make] a very good one, and therefore my mind is
mightily at ease about it.  I stepped to the Dog
Tavern, and thither come to me Doll Lane, and there we did drink together,
and she tells me she is my valentine .  .  .  .  Thence, she being gone,
and having spoke with Mr. Spicer here, whom I sent for hither to discourse
about the security of the late Act of 11 months' tax on which I have
secured part of my money lent to Tangier.  I to the Hall, and there met
Sir W. Pen, and he and I to the Beare, in Drury Lane, an excellent
ordinary, after the French manner, but of Englishmen; and there had a good
fricassee, our dinner coming to 8s., which was mighty pretty, to my great
content; and thence, he and I to the King's house, and there, in one of
the upper boxes, saw "Flora's Vagarys," which is a very silly play; and
the more, I being out of humour, being at a play without my wife, and she
ill at home, and having no desire also to be seen, and, therefore, could
not look about me.  This stone was sometimes referred to simply as the
     turkey, and Broderip ("Zoological Recreations") conjectured that the
     bird (turkey) took its name from the blue or turquoise colour of the
     skin about its head.]

which I am to give her, as my Valentine, and I am not much troubled at it. It will cost me
near L5--she costing me but little compared with other wives, and I have not many occasions
to spend on her.  So to my office, where late, and to think upon my observations to-morrow,
upon the report of the Committee to the Parliament about the business of tickets, whereof my
head is full, and so home to supper and to bed.

19th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning drawing up an answer to the Report of the
Committee for miscarriages to the Parliament touching our paying men by tickets, which I did
do in a very good manner I think. Dined with my clerks at home, where much good discourse of
our business of the Navy, and the trouble now upon us, more than we expected.  Then I did get
Sir W. Coventry (the Duke of York being gone) aside, and there read over my paper, which he
liked and corrected, and tells me it will be hard to escape, though the thing be never so fair,
to have it voted a miscarriage; but did advise me and my Lord Brouncker, who coming by did
join with us, to prepare some members in it, which we shall do. Thence, took up my wife at
Unthanke's, and so home, and there my mind being full of preparing my paper against to-morrow
for the House, with an address from the office to the House, I to the office, very late, and
then home to supper and to bed.

20th.  Up, and to the office a while, and thence to White Hall by coach with Mr. Batelier with
me, whom I took up in the street.  I thence by water to Westminster Hall, and there with Lord
Brouncker, Sir T. Harvy, Sir J. Minnes, did wait all the morning to speak to members about
our business, thinking our business of tickets would come before the House to-day, but we did
alter our minds about the petition to the House, sending in the paper to them.  This kept them
all the morning, which I was glad of.  The play a well-writ and good play, only its design
I did not like of reproaching the King, but altogether a very good and most serious play. 
Thence home, and there a little to the office, and so home to supper, where Mercer with us,
and sang, and then to bed.

21st.  At the office all the morning to get a little business done, I having, and so the whole
office, been put out of doing any business there for this week by our trouble in attending
the Parliament.  Hither comes to me young Captain Beckford, the slopseller, and there presents
me a little purse with gold in it, it being, as he told me, for his present to me, at the end
of the last year.  I told him I had not done him any service I knew of.  He persisted, and
I refused, but did at several denials; and telling him that it was not an age to take presents
in, he told me he had reason to present me with something, and desired me to accept of it,
which, at his so urging me, I did, and so fell to talk of his business, and so parted.  I do
not know of any manner of kindness I have done him this last year, nor did expect any thing.
It was therefore very welcome to me, but yet I was not fully satisfied in my taking it, because
of my submitting myself to the having it objected against me hereafter, and the rather because
this morning Jacke Fen come and shewed me an order from the Commissioners of Accounts, wherein
they demand of him an account upon oath of all the sums of money that have been by him defalked
or taken from any man since their time, of enquiry upon any payments, and if this should, as
it is to be feared, come to be done to us, I know not what I shall then do, but I shall take
counsel upon it. At noon by coach towards Westminster, and met my Lord Brouncker, and W. Pen,
and Sir T. Harvey, in King's Street, coming away from the Parliament House; and so I to them,
and to the French ordinary, at the Blue Bells, in Lincolne's Inn Fields, and there dined and
talked.  This makes them mad; for that the former Poll-bill, that was so much less in its extent
than the last, which took in all sexes and qualities, did come to L350,000.  Thence, having
dined for 20s., we to the Duke of York at White Hall, and there had our usual audience, and
did little but talk of the proceedings of the Parliament, wherein he is as much troubled as
we; for he is not without fears that they do ayme at doing him hurt; but yet he declares that
he will never deny to owne what orders he hath given to any man to justify him, notwithstanding
their having sent to him to desire his being tender to take upon him the doing any thing of
that kind. Thence with Brouncker and T. Harvey to Westminster Hall, and there met with Colonel
Birch and Sir John Lowther, and did there in the lobby read over what I have drawn up for our
defence, wherein they own themselves mightily satisfied; and Birch, like a particular friend,
do take it upon him to defend us, and do mightily do me right in all his discourse.  Here walked
in the Hall with him a great while, and discoursed with several members, to prepare them in
our business against to-morrow, and meeting my cozen Roger Pepys, he showed me Granger's written
confession,

     [Pepys here refers to the extraordinary proceedings which occurred
     between Charles, Lord Gerard, and Alexander Fitton, of which a
     narrative was published at the Hague in 1665.  Granger was a witness
     in the cause, and was afterwards said to be conscience-stricken from
     his perjury.  Some notice of this case will be found in North's
     "Examen," p. 558; but the copious and interesting note in Ormerod's
     "History of Cheshire," Vol.  iii., p.  291, will best satisfy the
     reader, who will not fail to be struck by the paragraph with which
     it is closed-viz., "It is not improbable that Alexander Fitton, who,
     in the first instance, gained rightful possession of Gawsworth under
     an acknowledged settlement, was driven headlong into unpremeditated
     guilt by the production of a revocation by will which Lord Gerard
     had so long concealed.  Having lost his own fortune in the
     prosecution of his claims, he remained in gaol till taken out by
     James II. to be made Chancellor of Ireland (under which character
     Hume first notices him), was knighted, and subsequently created Lord
     Gawsworth after the abdication of James, sat in his parliament in
     Dublin in 1689, and then is supposed to have accompanied his fallen
     master to France.  Whether the conduct of Fitton was met, as he
     alleges, by similar guilt on the part of Lord Gerard, God only can
     judge; but his hand fell heavily on the representatives of that
     noble house.  Thence with Lord Brouncker and T. Harvey as far as the New
Exchange, and there at a draper's shop drawing up a short note of what
they are to desire of the House for our having a hearing before they
determine any thing against us, which paper is for them to show to what
friends they meet against to-morrow, I away home to the office, and there
busy pretty late, and here comes my wife to me, who hath been at Pegg
Pen's christening, which, she says, hath made a flutter and noise; but was
as mean as could be, and but little company, just like all the rest that
that family do.  So home to supper and to bed, with my head full of a
defence before the Parliament tomorrow, and therein content myself very
well, and with what I have done in preparing some of the members thereof
in order thereto.

22nd.  Up, and by coach through Ducke Lane, and there did buy Kircher's Musurgia, cost me 35s.,
a book I am mighty glad of, expecting to find great satisfaction in it.  Thence to Westminster
Hall and the lobby, and up and down there all the morning, and to the Lords' House, and heard
the Solicitor-General plead very finely, as he always do; and this was in defence of the East
India Company against a man that complains of wrong from them, and thus up and down till noon
in expectation of our business coming on in the House of Commons about tickets, but they being
busy about my Lord Gerard's business I did give over the thoughts of ours coming on, and so
with my wife, and Mercer, and Deb., who come to the Hall to me, I away to the Beare, in Drury
Lane, and there bespoke a dish of meat; and, in the mean time, sat and sung with Mercer; and,
by and by, dined with mighty pleasure, and excellent meat, one little dish enough for us all,
and good wine, and all for 8s., and thence to the Duke's playhouse, and there saw "Albumazar,"
an old play, this the second time of acting.  It is said to have been the ground of B. Jonson's
"Alchymist;" but, saving the ridicuiousnesse of Angell's part, which is called Trinkilo, I
do not see any thing extraordinary in it, but was indeed weary of it before it was done.  The
King here, and, indeed, all of us, pretty merry at the mimique tricks of Trinkilo.  So home,
calling in Ducke Lane for the book I bought this morning, and so home, and wrote my letters
at the office, and then home to supper and to bed.

23rd (Lord's day).  Up, and, being desired by a messenger from Sir G. Carteret, I by water
over to Southwarke, and so walked to the Falkon, on the Bank-side, and there got another boat,
and so to Westminster, where I would have gone into the Swan; but the door was locked; and
the girl could not let me in, and so to Wilkinson's in King Street, and there wiped my shoes,
and so to Court, where sermon not yet done I met with Brisband; and he tells me, first, that
our business of tickets did come to debate yesterday, it seems, after I was gone away, and
was voted a miscarriage in general.  He tells me in general that there is great looking after
places, upon a presumption of a great many vacancies; and he did shew me a fellow at Court,
a brother of my Lord Fanshaw's, a witty but rascally fellow, without a penny in his purse,
that was asking him what places there were in the Navy fit for him, and Brisband tells me,
in mirth, he told him the Clerke of the Acts, and I wish he had it, so I were well and quietly
rid of it; for I am weary of this kind of trouble, having, I think, enough whereon to support
myself.  He gone, we home, and there I to read, and my belly being full of my dinner to-day,
I anon to bed, and there, as I have for many days, slept not an hour quietly, but full of dreams
of our defence to the Parliament and giving an account of our doings.  Up, and to my office,
where most of the morning, entering my journal for the three days past.  Thence about noon
with my wife to the New Exchange, by the way stopping at my bookseller's, and there leaving
my Kircher's Musurgia to be bound, and did buy "L'illustre Bassa," in four volumes, for my
wife.  I saw his lady, of whom the 'Terrae Filius' of Oxford was once so merry;

     [A scholar appointed to make a satirical and jesting speech at an
     Act in the University of Oxford.  Mr. Christopher Wordsworth gives,
     in his "Social Life at the English Universities in the Eighteenth
     Century," 1874, a list of terra-filii from 1591 to 1713 (pp. 296-
     298, 680).  The 'terrae filius' was sometimes expelled the
     university on account of the licence of his speech.  However, I was
pleased well to see it once, it being worth a man's seeing to discover the
different ability and understanding of people, and the different growth of
people's abilities by practise.  Their play was a bad one, called
"Jeronimo is Mad Again," a tragedy.  Here was some good company by us, who
did make mighty sport at the folly of their acting, which I could not
neither refrain from sometimes, though I was sorry for it.  So away hence
home, where to the office to do business a while, and then home to supper
and to read, and then to bed.  After I come home this evening comes a letter to me from
Captain Allen, formerly Clerk of the Ropeyard at Chatham, and whom I was
kind to in those days, who in recompense of my favour to him then do give
me notice that he hears of an accusation likely to be exhibited against me
of my receiving L50 of Mason, the timber merchant, and that his wife hath
spoke it.  I am mightily beholden to Captain Allen for this, though the
thing is to the best of my memory utterly false, and I do believe it to be
wholly so, but yet it troubles me to have my name mentioned in this
business, and more to consider how I may be liable to be accused where I
have indeed taken presents, and therefore puts me on an enquiry, into my
actings in this kind and prepare against a day of accusation.

25th.  Up, having lain the last night the first night that I have lain with my wife since she
was last ill, which is about eight days.  To the office, where busy all the morning.  At noon
comes W. Howe to me, to advise what answer to give to the business of the prizes, wherein I
did give him the best advice I could; but am sorry to see so many things, wherein I doubt it
will not be prevented but Sir Roger Cuttance and Mr. Pierce will be found very much concerned
in goods beyond the distribution, and I doubt my Lord Sandwich too, which troubles me mightily.
He gone I to dinner, and thence set my wife at the New Exchange, and I to Mr. Clerke, my solicitor,
to the Treasury chamber, but the Lords did not sit, so I by water with him to the New Exchange,
and there we parted, and I took my wife and Deb. up, and to the Nursery, where I was yesterday,
and there saw them act a comedy, a pastorall, "The Faythful Shepherd," having the curiosity
to see whether they did a comedy better than a tragedy; but they do it both alike, in the meanest
manner, that I was sick of it, but only for to satisfy myself once in seeing the manner of
it, but I shall see them no more, I believe.  Thence to the New Exchange, to take some things
home that my wife hath bought, a dressing-box, and other things for her chamber and table,
that cost me above L4, and so home, and there to the office, and tell W. Hewer of the letter
from Captain Allen last night, to give him caution if any thing should be discovered of his
dealings with anybody, which I should for his sake as well, or more than for my own, be sorry
for; and with great joy I do find, looking over my memorandum books, which are now of great
use to me, and do fully reward me for all my care in keeping them, that I am not likely to
be troubled for any thing of the kind but what I shall either be able beforehand to prevent,
or if discovered, be able to justify myself in, and I do perceive, by Sir W. Warren's discourse,
that they [the House] do all they can possibly to get out of him and others, what presents
they have made to the Officers of the Navy; but he tells me that he hath denied all, though
he knows that he is forsworn as to what relates to me.  So home to supper and to bed.

26th.  Up, and by water to Charing Cross stairs, and thence to W. Coventry to discourse concerning
the state of matters in the Navy, where he particularly acquainted me with the trouble he is
like to meet with about the selling of places, all carried on by Sir Fr. Hollis, but he seems
not to value it, being able to justify it to be lawful and constant practice, and never by
him used in the least degree since he upon his own motion did obtain a salary of L500 in lieu
thereof.  Thence to the Treasury Chamber about a little business, and so home by coach, and
in my way did meet W. Howe going to the Commissioners of Accounts.  I stopped and spoke to
him, and he seems well resolved what to answer them, but he will find them very strict, and
not easily put off: So home and there to dinner, and after dinner comes W. Howe to tell me
how he sped, who says he was used civilly, and not so many questions asked as he expected;
but yet I do perceive enough to shew that they do intend to know the bottom of things, and
where to lay the great weight of the disposal of these East India goods, and that they intend
plainly to do upon my Lord Sandwich.  Among other merry discourse about spending of money,
and how much more chargeable a man's living is now more than it was heretofore, Duncomb did
swear that in France he did live of L100 a year with more plenty, and wine and wenches, than
he believes can be done now for L200, which was pretty odd for him, being a Committee-man's
son, to say.  Having done here, and supped, where I eat very little, we home in Sir John Robinson's
coach, and there to bed.

27th.  Having done with him, I home vexed in my mind, and so fit for no business, but sat talking
with my wife and supped with her; and Nan Mercer come and sat all the evening with us, and
much pretty discourse, which did a little ease me, and so to bed.

29th.  Up, and walked to Captain Cocke's, where Sir G. Carteret promised to meet me and did
come to discourse about the prize-business of my Lord Sandwich's, which I perceive is likely
to be of great ill consequence to my Lord, the House being mighty vehement in it.  We could
say little but advise that his friends should labour to get it put off, till he comes.  Thence
to the office, where we sat all the morning, and at noon home to dinner, and to the office
again in the afternoon, where we met to consider of an answer to the Parliament about the not
paying of tickets according to our own orders, to which I hope we shall be able to give a satisfactory
answer, but that the design of the House being apparently to remove us, I do question whether
the best answer will prevail with them.  This done I by coach with my wife to Martin, my bookseller's,
expecting to have had my Kercher's Musurgia, but to my trouble and loss of trouble it was not
done.  So home again, my head full of thoughts about our troubles in the office, and so to
the office.  Wrote to my father this post, and sent him now Colvill's--[The Goldsmith.]--note
for L600 for my sister's portion, being glad that I shall, I hope, have that business over
before I am out of place, and I trust I shall be able to save a little of what I have got,
and so shall not be troubled to be at ease; for I am weary of this life.  So ends this month,
with a great deal of care and trouble in my head about the answerings of the Parliament, and
particularly in our payment of seamen by tickets.

