On Wednesday, the 25th of June, Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne had a son born to him.  This
event caused great joy to the King and the Court. The town shared their delight, and carried
their enthusiasm almost to madness, by the excess of their demonstration and their fetes. 
The King gave a fete at Marly, and made the most magnificent presents to Madame la Duchesse
de Bourgogne when she left her bed.  But we soon had reason to repent of so much joy, for the
child died in less than a year--and of so much money unwisely spent, in fetes when it was wanted
for more pressing purposes.  Even while these rejoicings were being celebrated, news reached
us which spread consternation in every family, and cast a gloom over the whole city.

I have already said that a grand alliance, with the Emperor at its head, had been formed against
France, and that our troops were opposing the Allies in various parts of Europe.  The Elector
of Bavaria had joined his forces to ours, and had already done us some service.  On the 12th
of August he led his men into the plain of Hochstedt, where, during the previous year, he had
gained a victory over the Imperialists.  In this plain he was joined by our troops, who took
up positions right and left of him, under the command of Tallard and Marsin.  The Elector himself
had command of all.  Soon after their arrival at Hochstedt, they received intelligence that
Prince Eugene, with the Imperialist forces, and the Duke of Marlborough with the English were
coming to meet them.  Our generals had, however, all the day before them to choose their ground,
and to make their dispositions.  It would have been difficult to succeed worse, both with the
one and the other.  A brook, by no means of a miry kind, ran parallel to our army; and in front
of it a spring, which formed a long and large quagmire, nearly separated the two lines of Marshal
Tallard.  It was a strange situation for a general to take up, who is master of a vast plain;
and it became, as will be seen, a very sad one. At his extreme right was the large village
of Blenheim, in which, by a blindness without example, he had placed twenty-six battalions
of infantry, six regiments of dragoons, and a brigade of cavalry.  It was an entire army merely
for the purpose of holding this village, and supporting his right, and of course he had all
these troops the less to aid him in the battle which took place.  The first battle of Hochstedt
afforded a lesson which ought to have been studied on this occasion. There were many officers
present, too, who had been at that battle; but they were not consulted.  One of two courses
was open, either to take up a position behind the brook, and parallel to it, so as to dispute
its passage with the enemies, or to take advantage of the disorder they would be thrown into
in crossing it by attacking them then.  Both these plans were good; the second was the better;
but neither was adopted.  What was done was, to leave a large space between our troops and
the brook, that the enemy might pass at their ease, and be overthrown afterwards, as was said.
With such dispositions it is impossible to doubt but that our chiefs were struck with blindness.
The Danube flowed near enough to Blenheim to be of sufficient support to our right, better
indeed than that village, which consequently there was no necessity to hold.

The enemies arrived on the 13th of August at the dawn, and at once took up their position on
the banks of the brook.  Their surprise must have been great to see our army so far off, drawn
up in battle array.  They profited by the extent of ground left to them, crossed the brook
at nearly every point, formed themselves in several lines on the side to which they crossed,
and then extended themselves at their ease, without receiving the slightest opposition.  This
is exact truth, but without any appearance of being so; and posterity will with difficulty
believe it. It was nearly eight o'clock before all these dispositions, which our troops saw
made without moving, were completed.  Prince Eugene with his army had the right; the Duke of
Marlborough the left.  The latter thus opposed to the forces of Tallard, and Prince Eugene
to those of Marsin.

The battle commenced; and in one part was so far favourable to us that the attack of Prince
Eugene was repulsed by Marsin, who might have profited by this circumstance but for the unfortunate
position of our right.  Two things contributed to place us at a disadvantage.  The second line,
separated by the quagmire I have alluded to from the first line, could not sustain it properly;
and in consequence of the long bend it was necessary to make round this quagmire, neither line,
after receiving or making a charge, could retire quickly to rally and return again to the attack.
As for the infantry, the twenty-six battalions shut up in Blenheim left a great gap in it that
could not fail to, be felt.  The English, who soon perceived the advantage they might obtain
from this want of infantry, and from the difficulty with which our cavalry of the right was
rallied, profited by these circumstances with the readiness of people who have plenty of ground
at their disposal.  They redoubled their charges, and to say all in one word, they defeated
at their first attack all this army, notwithstanding the efforts of our general officers and
of several regiments to repel them.  The army of the Elector, entirely unsupported, and taken
in flank by the English, wavered in its turn. All the valour of the Bavarians, all the prodigies
of the Elector, were unable to remedy the effects of this wavering.  Thus was seen, at one
and the same time, the army of Tallard beaten and thrown into the utmost disorder; that of
the Elector sustaining itself with great intrepidity, but already in retreat; and that of Marsin
charging and gaining ground upon Prince Eugene.  It was not until Marsin learnt of the defeat
of Tallard and of the Elector, that he ceased to pursue his advantages, and commenced his retreat.
This retreat he was able to make without being pursued.

In the mean time the troops in Blenheim had been twice attacked, and had twice repulsed the
enemy.  Tallard had given orders to these troops on no account to leave their positions, nor
to allow a single man even to quit them.  Now, seeing his army defeated and in flight, he wished
to countermand these orders.  He was riding in hot haste to Blenheim to do so, with only two
attendants, when all three were surrounded, recognised, and taken prisoners.

These troops shut up in Blenheim had been left under the command of Blansac, camp-marshal,
and Clerembault, lieutenant-general.  During the battle this latter was missed, and could nowhere
be found.  It was known afterwards that, for fear of being killed, he had endeavoured to escape
across the Danube on horseback attended by a single valet.  The valet passed over the river
in safety, but his master went to the bottom. Blansac, thus left alone in command, was much
troubled by the disorders he saw and heard, and by the want which he felt of fresh orders.
He sent a messenger to Tallard for instructions how to act, but his messenger was stopped on
the road, and taken prisoner.  I only repeat what Blansac himself reported in his defence,
which was equally ill-received by the King and the public, but which had no contradictors,
for nobody was witness of what took place at Blenheim except those actually there, and they
all, the principals at least, agreed in their story.  What some of the soldiers said was not
of a kind that could altogether be relied upon.

While Blansac was in this trouble, he saw Denonville, one of our officers who had been taken
prisoner, coming towards the village, accompanied by an officer who waved a handkerchief in
the air and demanded a parley. Denonville was a young man, very handsome and well made, who
being a great favourite with Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne had become presumptuous and somewhat
audacious.  Instead of speaking in private to Blansac and the other principal officers--since
he had undertaken so strange a mission--Denonville, who had some intellect, plenty of fine
talk, and a mighty opinion of himself, set to work haranguing the troops, trying to persuade
them to surrender themselves prisoners of war, so that they might preserve themselves for the
service of the King.  Blansac, who saw the wavering this caused among the troops, sharply told
Denonville to hold his tongue, and began himself to harangue the troops in a contrary spirit.
But it was to late.  The mischief was done.  Only one regiment, that of Navarre, applauded
him, all the rest maintained a dull silence. I remind my readers that it is Blansac's version
of the story I am giving.

Soon after Denonville and his companion had returned to the enemy, an English lord came, demanding
a parley with the commandant.  He was admitted to Blansac, to whom he said that the Duke of
Marlborough had sent him to say that he had forty battalions and sixty pieces of cannon at
his disposal, with reinforcements to any extent at command; that he should surround the village
on all sides; that the army of Tallard was in flight, and the remains of that of the Elector
in retreat; that Tallard and many general officers were prisoners; that Blansac could hope
for no reinforcements; and that, therefore, he had better at once make an honourable capitulation,
and surrender, himself with all his men prisoners of war, than attempt a struggle in which
he was sure to be worsted with great loss.  Blansac wanted to dismiss this messenger at once,
but the Englishman pressed him to advance a few steps out of the village, and see with his
own eyes the defeat of the Electoral army, and the preparations that were made on the other
side to continue the battle. Blansac accordingly, attended by one of his officers, followed
this lord, and was astounded to see with his own eyes that all he had just heard was true.
Returned into Bleinheim, Blansac assembled all his principal officers, made them acquainted
with the proposition that had been made, and told them what he had himself seen.  Every one
comprehended what a frightful shock it would be for the country when it learnt that they had
surrendered themselves prisoners of war; but all things well considered, it was thought best
to accept these terms, and so preserve to the King the twenty-six battalions and the twelve
squadrons of dragoons who were there.  This terrible capitulation was at once, therefore, drawn
up and signed by Blansac, the general officers, and the heads of every corps except that of
Navarre, which was thus the sole one which refused.

The number of prisoners that fell to the enemy in this battle was infinite.  The Duke of Marlborough
took charge of the most distinguished, until he could carry them away to England, to grace
his triumph there. He treated them all, even the humblest, with the utmost attention, consideration,
and politeness, and with a modesty that did him even more honour than his victory.  Those that
came under the charge of Prince Louis of Baden were much less kindly treated.

The King received the cruel news of this battle on the 21st of August, by a courier from the
Marechal de Villeroy.  By this courier the King learnt that a battle had taken place on the
13th; had lasted from eight o'clock in the morning until evening; that the entire army of Tallard
was killed or taken prisoners; that it was not known what had become of Tallard himself, or
whether the Elector and Marsin had been at the action.  The private letters that arrived were
all opened to see what news they contained, but no fresh information could be got from them.
For six days the King remained in this uncertainty as to the real losses that had been sustained.
Everybody was afraid to write bad news; all the letters which from time to time arrived, gave,
therefore, but an unsatisfactory account of what had taken place.  The King used every means
in his power to obtain some news.  Every post that came in was examined by him, but there was
little found to satisfy him.  Neither the King nor anybody else could understand, from what
had reached them, how it was that an entire army had been placed inside a village, and had
surrendered itself by a signed capitulation.  It puzzled every brain.  At last the details,
that had oozed out little by little, augmented to a perfect stream, by the, arrival of one
of our officers, who, taken prisoner, had been allowed by the Duke of Marlborough to go to
Paris to relate to the King the misfortune that had happened to him.

We were not accustomed to misfortunes.  This one, very reasonably, was utterly unexpected.
It seemed in every way the result of bad generalship, of an unjustifiable disposition of troops,
and of a series of gross and incredible errors.  The commotion was general.  There was scarcely
an illustrious family that had not had one of its members killed, wounded, or taken prisoner.
Other families were in the same case.  The public sorrow and indignation burst out without
restraint. Nobody who had taken part in this humiliation was spared; the generals and the private
soldiers alike came in for blame.  Denonville was ignominiously broken for the speech he had
made at Blenheim.  The generals, however, were entirely let off.  All the punishment fell upon
certain regiments, which were broken, and upon certain unimportant officers--the guilty and
innocent mixed together.  The outcry was universal.  The grief of the King at this ignominy
and this loss, at the moment when he imagined that the fate of the Emperor was in his hands,
may be imagined.  At a time when he might have counted upon striking a decisive blow, he saw
himself reduced to act simply on the defensive, in order to preserve his troops; and had to
repair the loss of an entire army, killed or taken prisoners.  The sequel showed not less that
the hand of God was weighty upon us.  All judgment was lost.  We trembled even in the midst
of Alsace.

In the midst of all this public sorrow, the rejoicing and the fetes for the birth of the Duc
de Bretagne son of Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne, were not discontinued.  The city gave a
firework fete upon the river, that Monseigneur, the Princes, his sons, and Madame la Duchesse
de Bourgogne, with many ladies and courtiers, came to see from the windows of the Louvre, magnificent
cheer and refreshments being provided for them.  This was a contrast which irritated the people,
who would not understand that it was meant for magnanimity.  A few days afterwards the King
gave an illumination and a fete at Marly, to which the Court of Saint Germain was invited;
and which was all in honour of Madame la Duchesse de Bourgogne.  He thanked the Prevot des
Marchand for the fireworks upon the river, and said that Monseigneur and Madame had found them
very beautiful.

Shortly after this, I received a letter from one of my friends, the Duc de Montfort, who had
always been in the army of the Marechal de Villeroy. He sent word to me, that upon his return
he intended to break his sword, and retire from the army.  His letter was written in such a
despairing tone that, fearing lest with his burning courage he might commit some martial folly,
I conjured him not to throw himself into danger for the sake of being killed.  It seemed that
I had anticipated his intentions. A convoy of money was to be sent to Landau.  Twice he asked
to be allowed to take charge of this convoy, and twice he was told it was too insignificant
a charge for a camp-marshal to undertake.  The third time that he asked this favour, he obtained
it by pure importunity.  He carried the money safely into Landau, without meeting with any
obstacle. On his return he saw some hussars roving about.  Without a moment's hesitation he
resolved to give chase to them.  He was with difficulty restrained for some time, and a last,
breaking away, he set off to attack them, followed by only two officers.  The hussars dispersed
themselves, and retreated; the Duc de Montfort followed them, rode into the midst of them,
was surrounded on all sides, and soon received a blow which overturned him.  In a few moments
after, being carried off by his men, he died, having only had time to confess himself, and
to arrive at his quarters.  He was infinitely regretted by everybody who had known him. The
grief of his family may be imagined.

CHAPTER XXX

The King did not long remain without some consolation for the loss of the battle of Hochstedt
(Blenheim).  The Comte de Toulouse--very different in every respect from his brother, the Duc
du Maine--was wearied with cruising in the Mediterranean, without daring to attack enemies
that were too strong for him.  He had, therefore, obtained reinforcements this year, so that
he was in a state to measure his forces with any opponent. The English fleet was under the
command of Admiral Rooks.  The Comte de Toulouse wished above all things to attack.  He asked
permission to do so, and, the permission being granted, he set about his enterprise.  He met
the fleet of Admiral Rooks near Malaga, on the 24th of September of this year, and fought with
it from ten o'clock in the morning until eight o'clock in the evening.  The fleets, as far
as the number of vessels was concerned, were nearly equal.  So furious or so obstinate a sea-fight
had not been seen for a long time.  They had always the wind upon our fleet, yet all the advantage
was on the side of the Comte de Toulouse, who could boast that he had obtained the victory,
and whose vessel fought that of Rooks, dismasted it, and pursued it all next day towards the
coast of Barbary, where the Admiral retired.  The enemy lost six thousand men; the ship of
the Dutch Vice-Admiral was blown up; several others were sunk, and some dismasted.  Our fleet
lost neither ship nor mast, but the victory cost the lives of many distinguished people, in
addition to those of fifteen hundred soldiers or sailors killed or wounded.

Towards evening on the 25th, by dint of maneuvers, aided by the wind, our fleet came up again
with that of Rooks.  The Comte de Toulouse was for attacking it again on the morrow, and showed
that if the attack were successful, Gibraltar would be the first result of the victory.  That
famous place, which commands the important strait of the same name, had been allowed to fall
into neglect, and was defended by a miserable garrison of forty men.  In this state it had
of course easily fallen into the hands of the enemies.  But they had not yet had time to man
it with a much superior force, and Admiral Rooks once defeated, it must have surrendered to us.

The Comte de Toulouse urged his advice with all the energy of which he was capable, and he
was supported in opinion by others of more experience than himself.  But D'O, the mentor of
the fleet, against whose counsel he had been expressly ordered by the King never to act, opposed
the project of another attack with such disdainful determination, that the Comte had no course
open but to give way.  The annoyance which this caused throughout the fleet was very great.
It soon was known what would have become of the enemy's fleet had it been attacked, and that
Gibraltar would have been found in exactly the same state as when abandoned.  The Comte de
Toulouse acquired great honour in this campaign, and his stupid teacher lost little, because
he had little to lose.

M. de Mantua having surrendered his state to the King, thereby rendering us a most important
service in Italy, found himself ill at ease in his territory, which had become the theatre
of war, and had come incognito to Paris.  He had apartments provided for him in the Luxembourg,
furnished magnificently with the Crown furniture, and was very graciously received by the King.
The principal object of his journey was to marry some French lady; and as he made no secret
of this intention, more than one plot was laid in order to provide him with a wife.  M. de
Vaudemont, intent upon aggrandizing the house of Lorraine, wished.  M de Mantua to marry a
member of that family, and fixed upon Mademoiselle d'Elboeuf for his bride.  The Lorraines
did all in their power to induce M. de Mantua to accept her.  But M. le Prince had also his
designs in this matter.  He had a daughter; whom he knew not how to get off his hands, and
he thought that in more ways than one it would be to his advantage to marry her to the Duke
of Mantua.  He explained his views to the King, who gave him permission to follow them out,
and promised to serve him with all his protection.  But when the subject was broached to M.
de Mantua, he declined this match in such a respectful, yet firm, manner that M. le Prince
felt he must abandon all hope of carrying it out.  The Lorraines were not more successful in
their designs.  When M. de Vaudemont had first spoken of Mademoiselle d'Elboeuf, M. de Mantua
had appeared to listen favourably.  This was in Italy.  Now that he was in Paris he acted very
differently.  It was in vain that Mademoiselle d'Elboeuf was thrust in his way, as though by
chance, at the promenades, in the churches; her beauty, which might have touched many others,
made no impression upon him.  The fact was that M. de Mantua, even long before leaving his
state, had fixed upon a wife.

Supping one evening with the Duc de Lesdiguieres, a little before the death of the latter,
he saw a ring with a portrait in it; upon the Duke's finger.  He begged to be allowed to look
at the portrait, was charmed with it, and said he should be very happy to have such a beautiful
mistress.  The Duke at this burst out laughing, and said it was the portrait of his wife. 
As soon as the Duc de Lesdiguieres was dead, de Mantua thought only of marrying the young widowed
Duchess.  He sought her everywhere when he arrived in Paris, but without being able to find
her; because she was in the first year of her widowhood.  He therefore unbosomed himself to
Torcy, who reported the matter to the King.  The King approved of the design of M. de Mantua,
and charged the Marechal de Duras to speak to the Duchesse de Lesdiguieres, who was his daughter.
The Duchess was equally surprised and afflicted when she learned what was in progress.  She
testified to her father her repugnance to abandon herself to the caprices and the jealousy
of an old Italian 'debauche' the horror she  felt at the idea of being left alone with him
in Italy; and the reasonable fear she had of her health, with a man whose own could not be good.

I was promptly made acquainted with this affair; for Madame de Lesdiguieres and Madame de Saint-Simon
were on the most intimate terms. I did everything in my power to persuade Madame de Lesdirguieres
to content to the match, insisting at once on her family position, on the reason of state,
and on the pleasure of ousting Madame d'Elboeuf,--but it was all in vain.  I never saw such
firmness.  Pontchartrain, who came and reasoned with her, was even less successful than I,
for he excited her by threats and menaces.  M. le Prince himself supported us--having no longer
any hope for himself, and fearing, above all things, M. de Mantua's marriage with a Lorraine--and
did all he could to persuade Madame de Lesdiguieres to give in.  I renewed my efforts in the
same direction, but with no better success than before.  Nevertheless, M. de Mantua, irritated
by not being able to see Madame de Lesdirguieres, resolved to go and wait for her on a Sunday
at the Minimes.  He found her shut up in a chapel, and drew near the door in order to see her
as she went out.  He was not much gratified; her thick crape veil was lowered; it was with
difficulty he could get a glance at her.  Resolved to succeed, he spoke to Torcy, intimating
that Madame de Lesdiguieres ought not to refuse such a slight favour as to allow herself to
be seen in a church.  Torcy communicated this to the King, who sent word to Madame de Lesdiguieres
that she must consent to the favour M. de Mantua demanded.  She could not refuse after this.
M. de Mantua went accordingly, and waited for her in the same place, where he had once already
so badly seen her.  He found her, in the chapel, and drew near the door, as before.  She came
out, her veil raised, passed lightly before him, made him a sliding courtesy as she glided
by, in reply to his bow, and reached her coach.

M. de Mantua was charmed; he redoubled his efforts with the King and M. de Duras; the matter
was discussed in full council, like an affair of state--indeed it was one; and it was resolved
to amuse M. de Mantua, and yet at the same time to do everything to vanquish this resistance
of Madame de Lesdiguieres, except employing the full authority of the King, which the King
himself did not wish to exert.  Everything was promised to her on the part of the King: that
it should be his Majesty who would make the stipulations of the marriage contract; that it
should be his Majesty who would give her a dowry, and would guarantee her return to France
if she became a widow, and assure her his protection while she remained a wife; in one word,
everything was tried, and in the gentlest and most honourable manner, to persuade her.  Her
mother lent us her house one afternoon, in order that we might speak more at length and more
at our ease there to Madame de Lesdiguieres than we could at the Hotel de Duras. We only gained
a torrent of tears for our pains.

A few days after this, I was very much astonished to hear Chamillart relate to me all that
had passed at this interview.  I learnt afterwards that Madame de Lesdiguieres, fearing that
if, entirely unsupported, she persisted in her refusal, it might draw upon her the anger of
the King, had begged Chamillart to implore his Majesty not to insist upon this marriage.  M.
de Mantua hearing this, turned his thoughts elsewhere; and she was at last delivered of a pursuit
which had become a painful persecution to her.  Chamillart served her so well that the affair
came to an end; and the King, flattered perhaps by the desire this young Duchess showed to
remain his subject instead of becoming a sovereign, passed a eulogium upon her the same evening
in his cabinet to his family and to the Princesses, by whom it was spread abroad through society.

I may as well finish this matter at once.  The Lorraines, who had watched very closely the
affair up to this point, took hope again directly they heard of the resolution M. de Mantua
had formed to abandon his pursuit of Madame de Lesdiguieres.  They, in their turn, were closely
watched by M. le Prince, who so excited the King against them, that Madame d'Elboeuf received
orders from him not to continue pressing her suit upon M. de Mantua.  That did not stop them.
They felt that the King would not interfere with them by an express prohibition, and sure,
by past experience, of being on better terms with him afterwards than before, they pursued
their object with obstinacy.  By dint of much plotting and scheming, and by the aid of their
creatures, they contrived to overcome the repugnance of M. de Mantua to Mademoiselle d'Elboeuf,
which at bottom could be only caprice--her beauty, her figure, and her birth taken into account.
But Mademoiselle d'Elboeuf, in her turn, was as opposed to marriage with M. de Mantua as Madame
de Lesdiguieres had been.  She was, however, brought round ere long, and then the consent of
the King was the only thing left to be obtained.  The Lorraines made use of their usual suppleness
in order to gain that.  They represented the impolicy of interfering with the selection of
a sovereign who was the ally of France, and who wished to select a wife from among her subjects,
and succeeded so well, that the King determined to become neutral; that is to say, neither
to prohibit nor to sanction this match.  M. le Prince was instrumental in inducing the King
to take this neutral position; and he furthermore caused the stipulation to be made, that it
should not be celebrated in France, but at Mantua.

After parting with the King, M. de Mantua, on the 21st of September, went to Nemours, slept
there, and then set out for Italy.  At the same time Madame and Mademoiselle d'Elboeuf, with
Madame de Pompadour, sister of the former, passed through Fontainebleau without going to see
a soul, and followed their prey lest he should change his mind and escape them until the road
he was to take branched off from that they were to go by; he in fact intending to travel by
sea and they by land.  On the way their fears redoubled.  Arrived at Nevers, and lodged in
a hostelrie, they thought it would not be well to commit themselves further without more certain
security: Madame de Pompadour therefore proposed to M. de Mantua not to delay his happiness
any longer, but to celebrate his marriage at once. He defended himself as well as he could,
but was at last obliged to give in.  During this indecent dispute, the Bishop was sent to.
He had just died, and the Grand Vicar, not knowing what might be the wishes of the King upon
this marriage, refused to celebrate it.  The chaplain was therefore appealed to, and he at
once married Mademoiselle d'Elboeuf to M. de Mantua in the hotel.  As soon as the ceremony
was over, Madame d'Elboeuf wished to leave her daughter alone with M. de Mantua, and although
he strongly objected to this, everybody quitted the room, leaving only the newly married couple
there, and Madame de Pompadour outside upon the step listening to what passed between them.
But finding after a while that both were very much embarrassed, and that M. de Mantua did little
but cry out for the company to return, she conferred with her sister, and they agreed to give
him his liberty.  Immediately he had obtained it, he mounted his horse, though it was not early,
and did not see them again until they reached Italy--though all went the same road as far as
Lyons.  The news of this strange celebration of marriage was soon spread abroad with all the
ridicule which attached to it.

The King was very much annoyed when he learnt that his orders had been thus disobeyed.  The
Lorraines plastered over the affair by representing that they feared an affront from M. de
Mantua, and indeed it did not seem at all unlikely that M. de Mantua, forced as it were into
compliance with their wishes, might have liked nothing better than to reach Italy and then
laugh at them.  Meanwhile, Madame d'Elboeuf and her daughter embarked on board the royal galleys
and started for Italy.  On the way they were fiercely chased by some African corsairs, and
it is a great pity they were not taken to finish the romance.

However, upon arriving in Italy, the marriage was again celebrated, this time with all the
forms necessary for the occasion.  But Madame d'Elboeuf had no cause to rejoice that she had
succeeded in thus disposing of her daughter.  The new Duchesse de Mantua was guarded by her
husband with the utmost jealousy.  She was not allowed to see anybody except her mother, and
that only for an hour each day.  Her women entered her apartment only to dress and undress
her.  The Duke walled up very high all the windows of his house, and caused his wife to, be
guarded by old women.  She passed her days thus in a cruel prison.  This treatment, which I
did not expect, and the little consideration, not to say contempt, shown here for M. de Mantua
since his departure, consoled me much for the invincible obstinacy of Madame de Lesdiguieres.
Six months after, Madame d'Elboeuf returned, beside herself with vexation, but too vain to
show it.  She disguised the misfortune of her daughter, and appeared to be offended if it was
spoken of; but all our letters from the army showed that the news was true.  The strangest
thing of all is, that the Lorraines after this journey were as well treated by the King as
if they had never undertaken it; a fact which shows their art and ascendency.

I have dwelt too long perhaps upon this matter.  It appeared to me to merit attention by its
singularity, and still more so because it is by facts of this sort that is shown what was the
composition of the Court of the King.

About this time the Comtesse d'Auvergne finished a short life by an illness very strange and
uncommon.  When she married the Comte d'Auvergne she was a Huguenot, and he much wanted to
make her turn Catholic. A famous advocate of that time, who was named Chardon, had been a Huguenot,
and his wife also; they had made a semblance, however, of abjuring, but made no open profession
of Catholicism.  Chardon was sustained by his great reputation, and by the number of protectors
he had made for himself.

One morning he and his wife were in their coach before the Hotel-Dieu, waiting for a reply
that their lackey was a very long time in bringing them.  Madame Chardon glanced by chance
upon the grand portal of Notre Dame, and little by little fell into a profound reverie, which
might be better called reflection.  Her husband, who at last perceived this, asked her what
had sent her into such deep thought, and pushed her elbow even to draw a reply from her.  She
told him then what she was thinking about. Pointing to Notre Dame, she said that it was many
centuries before Luther and Calvin that those images of saints had been sculptured over that
portal; that this proved that saints had long since been invoked; the opposition of the reformers
to this ancient opinion was a novelty; that this novelty rendered suspicious other dogmas against
the antiquity of Catholicism that they taught; that these reflections, which she had never
before made, gave her much disquietude, and made her form the resolution to seek to enlighten
herself.

Chardon thought his wife right, and from that day they laid themselves out to seek the truth,
then to consult, then to be instructed.  This lasted a year, and then they made a new abjuration,
and both ever afterwards passed their lives in zeal and good works.  Madame Chardon converted
many Huguenots.  The Comte d'Auvergne took his wife to her. The Countess was converted by her,
and became a very good Catholic.  When she died she was extremely regretted by all the relatives
of her husband, although at first they had looked upon her coldly.

In the month of this September, a strange attempt at assassination occurred.  Vervins had been
forced into many suits against his relatives, and was upon the point of gaining them all, when
one of his cousins- german, who called himself the Abbe de Pre, caused him to be attacked as
he passed in his coach along the Quai de la Tournelle, before the community of Madame de Miramion.
Vervins was wounded with several sword cuts, and also his coachman, who wished to defend him.
In consequence of the complaint Vervins made, the Abbe escaped abroad, whence he never returned,
and soon after, his crime being proved, was condemned to be broken alive on the wheel.  Vervins
had long been menaced with an attack by the Abbe.  Vervins was an agreeable, well-made man,
but very idle. He had entered the army; but quitted it soon, and retired to his estates in
Picardy.  There he shut himself up without any cause of disgust or of displeasure, without
being in any embarrassment, for on the contrary he was well to do, and all his affairs were
in good order, and he never married; without motives of piety, for piety was not at all in
his vein; without being in bad health, for his health was always perfect; without a taste for
improvement, for no workmen were ever seen in his house; still less on account of the chase,
for he never went to it.  Yet he stayed in his house for several years, without intercourse
with a soul, and, what is most incomprehensible, without budging from his bed, except to allow
it to be made.  He dined there, and often all alone; he transacted what little business he
had to do there, and received while there the few people he could not refuse admission to;
and each day, from the moment he opened his eyes until he closed them again, worked at tapestry,
or read a little; he persevered until his death in this strange fashion of existence; so uniquely
singular, that I have wished to describe it.

CHAPTER XXXI

There presents itself to my memory an anecdote which it would be very prudent perhaps to be
silent upon, and which is very curious for anybody who has seen things so closely as I have,
to describe.  What determines me to relate it is that the fact is not altogether unknown, and
that every Court swarms with similar adventures.  Must it be said then?  We had amongst us
a charming young Princess who, by her graces, her attentions, and her original manners, had
taken possession of the hearts of the King, of Madame de Maintenon, and of her husband, Monseigneur
le Duc de Bourgogne.  The extreme discontent so justly felt against her father, M. de Savoie,
had not made the slightest alteration in their tenderness for her.  The King, who hid nothing
from her, who worked with his ministers in her presence whenever she liked to enter, took care
not to say a word in her hearing against her father.  In private, she clasped the King round
the neck at all hours, jumped upon his knees, tormented him with all sorts of sportiveness,
rummaged among his papers, opened his letters end read them in his presence, sometimes in spite
of him; and acted in the same manner with Madame de Maintenon.  Despite this extreme liberty,
she never spoke against any one: gracious to all, she endeavoured to ward off blows from all
whenever she could; was attentive to the private comforts of the King, even the humblest: kind
to all who served her, and living with her ladies, as with friends, in complete liberty, old
and young; she was the darling of the Court, adored by all; everybody, great and small, was
anxious to please her; everybody missed her when she was away; when she reappeared the void
was filled up; in a word, she had attached all hearts to her; but while in this brilliant situation
she lost her own.

