The construction of the second sweat house began at sunrise and was completed at nine o’clock.
Several large rocks were heated and placed in the sweat house and as before white sage and
Bigelovia Douglasii were thrown in, the fumes of which were designed as medicine for the sick
man. After the invalid entered the sweat house, buckskin blankets, etc., were drawn over the
entrance. The song-priest, accompanied by two attendants, sat a little to the south. He sprinkled
meal around the west base of the house and over the top from north to south and placed the
wands around its base in the manner heretofore described (the twelve wands and medicine used
were the special property of the theurgist). The song-priest holding the rattle joined the
choir in a chant. To his right were two Navajo jugs filled with water and an Apache basket
partly filled with corn meal. A bunch of buckskin bags, one of the small blue medicine tubes,
a mountain sheep’s horn, and a piece of undressed hide lay on the meal. Near by was a gourd
half filled with water in which meal was sprinkled; near this was a small earthenware vase
containing water and finely chopped herbs. At the conclusion of the chant the song-priest passed
his rattle to one of the choir and stirred the mixture in the bowl with his forefinger, and
after a few remarks to the invalid, who was still in the sweat house, he threw some of the
mixture in upon the hot rocks. This was repeated four times, when the song-priest returned
to his former position. The sweat-house priest took from his shoulders a Navajo blanket and
spread it near the door a little to the right. A call from one of the attendants was a signal
for Hasjelti and Hostjoghon to appear. The two men personating these gods were behind a tree
south of the sweat house, their bodies, arms, and legs painted white. Foxskins were attached
pendent to the backs of their girdles. As the gods approached the sweat house, the patient
came out and sat upon the blanket, and Hasjelti took a mountain sheep’s horn, in the right
hand and the piece of hide in the other and rubbed the sick man, beginning with the limbs;
as he rubbed down each limb, he threw his arms toward the eastern sky and cried "yo-yo!" He
also rubbed the head and body, holding the hands on opposite sides of the body. After this
rubbing, the sick man drank from the bowl of medicine-water, then arose and bathed himself
with the same mixture, the filled gourds being handed to him four times by Hasjelti, each time
accompanied with his peculiar hoot. Hostjoghon repeated the same ceremony over the invalid.
There was a constant din of rattle and chanting, the gods disappeared, and immediately thereafter
the theurgist gathered the twelve wands from the base of the sweat house. He removed the blue
reed from the basket and laid it a little to the left of the priest of the sweat house, who
in turn handed it to an attendant to be deposited with the wood of the sweat house in a neighboring
tree. The invalid proceeded to the medicine lodge followed by the song-priest uttering a low
chant. After entering the lodge the invalid took his seat on the west side; the song-priest,
still standing, took from a small buckskin bag white powdered material which he rubbed on the
soles of the feet, palms, knees, breast, shoulders, and head of the invalid; then taking a
pinch of the same material he extended his hand first toward the east and then toward the heavens
and the earth. After these attentions he took his accustomed seat in the lodge and joined in
conversation with his attendants.

SECOND CEREMONY.

Two sheepskins, a blanket, and cotton cloth were spread one upon the other in front of the
song-priest; and from the long reeds that had been first rubbed with a polishing stone, then
with tobacco, were cut ten pieces an inch and a quarter long and two pieces 2 inches long.
These were colored black and blue, one long piece and five small ones being black, the others
blue. While these were being decorated the song-priest and choir sang "My fathers, see, we
are getting ready! We do our work well, and you would better go into the house for we are to
have rain! Now, mothers, send down rain upon us!" This song was constantly repeated.

The tubes when completed were laid in position to form a dual person. The long black tube representing
the body was first placed in position. The long blue tube was then laid by its side and south
of it. The pollen end of the tubes pointed to the east. The right black leg was the next placed
in position, then the right blue leg, the left black leg and left blue leg. The right black
arm, then the right blue arm, the left black arm and the left blue arm, then the black head
and the blue head. (See PI. CXV.)

These tubes were filled with feathers, balls, and tobacco, and tipped with the corn pollen
and lighted with the crystal, the black tubes being offerings to the gods, the blue to the
goddesses. After they were completed they were placed in position by a second attendant; and
while the tubes were being filled the song-priest and choir sang "See, fathers! We fill these
with tobacco; it is good; smoke it!" A message was received from the fathers that they would
smoke, and, puffing the smoke from their mouths, they would invoke the watering of the earth.
They again sang "All you people who live in the rocks, all you who are born among the clouds,
we wish you to help us; we give you these offerings that you may have food and a smoke! All
women, you who live in the rocks, you who are born among the fog, I pray you come and help
us; I want you to come and work over the sick; I offer to you food of humming-birds’ plumes,
and tobacco to smoke!" Two bunches of feathers which had been placed to the east side of the
rug pointing east were deposited in two corn husks, each husk containing bits of turquoise,
black archaic beads, and abalone shell; corn pollen was sprinkled on these. The song-priest
then placed the dual body in the husks thus: First, the black body was laid upon the husks
to the north, and upon this a pinch of pollen was sprinkled; the blue body was placed in the
other husks and pollen sprinkled upon it; then the two right legs (black and blue) were put
into the corn husks with the black body; the two left legs were added to the same; the right
and left arms and the two heads were placed in the husk with the blue body and corn pollen
sprinkled upon them. The husks were closed and held by the song-priest to the soles of the
feet, palms, knees, breast, shoulders, back, and top of head of the invalid, who repeated a
long prayer after the theurgist, and the parcels were given to an attendant, who carried them
some distance from the lodge to the north and placed them in a secluded shady spot upon the
ground. Two bits of tobacco were laid upon the ground and upon these the body was placed, the
figure in a recumbent position with the arms over the head. The invalid for whom this ceremony
was held spared no expense in having the theurgist make the most elaborate explanation to his
near relatives of the secrets of the medicine tubes.

                            CEREMONIAL MASKS.

THIRD CEREMONY.

The theurgist occupied his usual seat, surrounded by his corps of attendants. The man personating
Naiyenesgony had his body and limbs painted black. The legs below the knee, the scapula, the
breasts, and the arm above the elbow were painted white. His loins were covered with a fine
red silk scarf, held by a silver belt; his blue knit stockings were tied with red garters below
each knee, and quantities of coral, turquois, and white shell beads ornamented the neck. The
man representing Tobaidischinni had his body colored reddish brown, with this figure

(the scalp knot) in white on the outside of each leg below the knee, on each arm below the
shoulder, each scapula, and on each breast. This design represents the knot of hair cut from
the heads of enemies, and the style is still in use by the Navajo. The man wore a red woolen
scarf around the loins, caught on by a silver belt, and his neck was profusely ornamented with
coral, turquois, and white beads.(1) Naiyenesgony and Tobaidischinni left the lodge, carrying
with them their masks. (See Pl. cxv, 1, 2, 3.) Bunches of pine boughs, which during the forenoon
had been made into wreaths by joining pieces together with yucca in this fashion were

laid across each end of the rug.

After the two men personating the gods left the lodge the invalid entered and took his seat
on the rug with his back to the theurgist. Two attendants dressed him with the wreaths, beginning
with the right ankle; a piece was then tied around the calf, thigh, waist, around the chest,
right wrist, elbow, upper arm, throat, forehead, then around the upper left arm, elbow, wrist,
thigh, left knee, calf, and ankle. Thus the man was literally obscured with a mass of pine.
He sat in an upright position with the legs extended and arms falling by his sides. A chant
was sung by the song priest, and in a few minutes Naiyenesgony and Tobaidischinni appeared.
Naiyenesgony drew his stone knife in front of the invalid over the forehead to the feet, then
down the right side and down the back and down the left side. He then began to remove the pine.
As each wreath was taken off the clusters were partly separated with the stone knife. Tobaidischinni
assisted Naiyenesgony by holding the wreaths while they were being cut.

When all the evergreen had been removed the personators of the gods exclaimed, "Now, my people,
we have killed all enemies!" and immediately left the lodge. The song priest placed a small
wreath of the pine on the sick man’s head, and holding in his left hand a bunch of eagle plumes,
and in his right hand a rattle, he sang the ten songs and prayers, assisted by the choir, that
were given by Naiyenesgony and Tobaidischinni to the Navajo to bring health and good fortune.
After the pine-bough wreaths had been separated the bits of yucca-strings were picked up by
the attendant and handed to Naiyenesgony, who held them over the sick man’s head, after which
the bits were again divided with the knife. After the ten songs and prayers had been chanted
the invalid left the rug and sat a little to the northeast, of it, with his knees drawn up.
The song priest placed two live coals in front of the invalid and sprinkled chopped herbs on
the coals, the fumes of which the invalid inhaled. The pines were carried off and placed in
the shade of a pine tree, that the disease might not leave the pine and return to the invalid.(2)

FOURTH CEREMONY.

The personators of Hasjelti and Hostjoghon adorned themselves for the ceremony. Hasjelti wore
ordinary clothing and a red scarf, with a silver belt around the waist. A rug, composed of
a blanket and a piece of white cotton, was spread in front of the song priest, and the masks
of Hasjelti and Hostjoghon placed thereon. (See Pl. CXV, 4,5,6.)

Upon the completion of the toilets of the personators of the gods they hurried from the lodge,
bearing their masks with them, when an attendant made a cavity immediately in front of the
rug 4 inches in diameter, and the song priest sprinkled a circle of meal around the cavity.
The invalid entered the lodge and stood on the rug and removed all of his clothing except the
breech cloth. He then took his seat facing east, with knees drawn up. A mask of the Hostjobokon,
which had been laid upon the rug, was drawn over the invalid’s head. Hasjelti and Hostjoghon
appeared at this juncture bearing a pine bough some 5 feet in height. An attendant made gestures
over the sick man, holding in his right hand a pinch of sacred meal, which was afterward placed
in the cavity. Hasjelti waved the pine bough five times around the invalid and planted it in
the cavity, where it was held in place by the gods. Then bending its top, the attendant attached
it to the mask over the invalid’s head by a buckskin string which was fastened to the mask.
The song priest and choir all the while sang a weird chant. The gods raised the bough, gave
their peculiar hoots, and disappeared from the lodge, carrying with them the pine bough with
the mask attached to it. In a few minutes they came back with the mask. After the chant the
song-priest placed meal on the soles of the invalid’s feet, knees, palms, breast, back, shoulders,
and head, and then put some in the cavity, after which the cavity was filled with earth. Two
coals were laid in front of the invalid, and upon these the song priest placed finely broken
herbs; an attendant sprinkled water on the herbs, and the invalid inhaled the fumes. The cotton
cloth was removed from the blanket rug, and the invalid stepped upon the rug and put on his
clothing. When the mask was removed from the invalid’s head it drew all fever with it.

FOURTH DAY.

FIRST CEREMONY.

The theurgist carried a bowl of water and pine needles, and an attendant bore a gourd of water,
a small vase of powdered herbs, and an Apache basket containing corn meal, buckskin bags, horn
of the mountain sheep and a piece of hide cut from between the eyes of the animal. The theurgist
and attendant took seats to the right of the entrance of the sweat house west of the medicine
lodge. This sweat house was decorated with the rainbow. Over the entrance were, first, two
striped blankets, one upon the other, a buckskin, and a piece of white cotton. Hot stones,
etc., having been previously placed in the sweat house, the sick man entered. The song-priest
and four attendants sang, accompanied by the rattle. At the conclusion of the chant Hasjelti
and Hostjoghon appeared as on the previous days. Hasjelti lifted the coverings from the entrance
and the invalid came out and sat upon a blanket south of the entrance and bathed both his hands
in the bowl containing the pine needles and water; he then drank of it and bathed his feet
and legs to the thighs, his arms and shoulders, body and face and head, and then emptied the
remainder over his back. Hasjelti manipulated the right leg with the sheep’s horn and hide,
rubbing the upper part of the leg with the right hand, then the under part with the left; he
then rubbed the sides of the leg in the same manner, each time giving a hoot; the arms, chest,
head, and face were similarly manipulated. Hostjoghon repeated the hooting every time he changed
the position of the hands. Hasjelti, taking the gourd containing the water and corn meal, gave
four draughts of it to the invalid, hooting each time the bowl was put to the lips; Hostjoghon
did the same. The song and rattle continued. Hasjelti, then put the powdered plants from the
small vase to the soles of the feet, knees, palms, breast, back, shoulders, and top of the
head of the invalid, hooting each time an application was made; this was repeated by Hostjoghon.
The invalid took a sip from the bowl and rubbed the remainder over his body. The song-priest
then removed the wands from the base of the sweat house and the coverings from the door; the
pine boughs and hot stones were also removed and the invalid preceded the song-priest to the
medicine lodge. All the wood of the sweat house was placed in a tree, excepting four small
pieces, which were deposited, together with the pine boughs from the interior of the sweat
house, in a semicircle formed by the rocks from the sweat house at the base of a piñon tree.
A line of meal 2 inches in length running east and west was sprinkled on the apex of the semicircle,
and upon this line the black tube was laid. A bit of meal was sprinkled on the tube and a quantity
over the pine boughs of this small shrine. Before sprinkling the meal on the top of the medicine
tube the attendant waved his hand in a circle from left to right, calling "hooshontko;" meaning:
Widespread blessings that come not from spoken words, but come to all, that people may have
the blessings of corn pollen, and that tongues may speak with the softness of corn pollen.

SECOND CEREMONY.

A rug was laid in front of the theurgist. Four medicine tubes were placed on the rug, the one
to the north end being white; the second one black and red, a white line dividing the two colors;
the third one, blue; the fourth, black. The white tube was an offering to Hasjelti; the red,
to Zaadoltjaii; the blue, to Hostjoboard; the black, to Naaskiddi, the hunchback. The tubes
were filled as before described. These tubes were begun and finished by the same person. (See
Pl. CXVI.) When the tubes were finished they were put into corn husks and bits of cotton cloth;
tiny pieces of turquois, white shell, abalone, and archaic black beads having first been placed
on the husks and cloths. The four turkey plumes with barred tips that lay upon the rug were
subsequently placed upon the tubes. These parcels were sprinkled by the song priest with corn
pollen, and after closing them he placed them in the hands of the invalid, who sat at the northeast
corner of the rug facing east. The song-priest sat before him and said a long prayer, which
the invalid repeated. At the close of the prayer an aged attendant received the parcels from
the theurgist and placed them to the soles of the feet, palms, etc., of the invalid. They were
afterward placed to his mouth and he drew from them a long breath. The old man carried the
parcels south over the brow of a hill and deposited them in secluded spots about 4 feet apart,
repeating a brief prayer over each one; he then motioned toward the east, south, west, and
north, and returned to the lodge. During his absence the choir sang; in the meantime the fire
in the lodge was reduced to embers.

THIRD CEREMONY.

