The cheerful Lang has neglected to tell me what is the matter with  you; so, I'm sorry to say,
I am cut off from all the customary  consolations.  I can't say, 'Think how much worse it would
be if  you had a broken leg!' when you may have the crushing repartee up  your sleeve, 'But
it is my leg that is broken.'  This is a pity.   But there are consolations.  You are an Englishman
(I believe); you  are a man of letters; you have never been made C.B.; your hair was  not red;
you have played cribbage and whist; you did not play  either the fiddle or the banjo; you were
never an aesthete; you  never contributed to -'S JOURNAL; your name is not Jabez Balfour; 
you are totally unconnected with the Army and Navy departments; I  understand you to have lived
within your income - why, cheer up!  here are many legitimate causes of congratulation.  I
seem to be  writing an obituary notice.  ABSIT OMEN!  But I feel very sure that  these considerations
will have done you more good than medicine.

By the by, did you ever play piquet?  I have fallen a victim to  this debilitating game.  It
is supposed to be scientific; God save  the mark, what self-deceivers men are!  It is distinctly
less so  than cribbage.  But how fascinating!  There is such material  opulence about it, such
vast ambitions may be realised - and are  not; it may be called the Monte Cristo of games.
And the thrill  with which you take five cards partakes of the nature of lust - and  you draw
four sevens and a nine, and the seven and nine of a suit  that you discarded, and O! but the
world is a desert!  You may see  traces of discouragement in my letter:  all due to piquet!
There  has been a disastrous turn of the luck against me; a month or two  ago I was two thousand
ahead; now, and for a week back, I have been  anything from four thousand eight hundred to
five thousand two  hundred astern.  If I have a sixieme, my beast of a partner has a  septieme;
and if I have three aces, three kings, three queens, and  three knaves (excuse the slight exaggeration),
the devil holds  quatorze of tens! - I remain, my dear James Payn, your sincere and  obliged
friend - old friend let me say,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MISS MIDDLETON

VAILIMA, SAMOA, SEPTEMBER 9, 1894.

DEAR MISS MIDDLETON, - Your letter has been like the drawing up of  a curtain.  Of course I
remember you very well, and the Skye  terrier to which you refer - a heavy, dull, fatted, graceless
creature he grew up to be - was my own particular pet.  It may  amuse you, perhaps, as much
as 'The Inn' amused me, if I tell you  what made this dog particularly mine.  My father was
the natural  god of all the dogs in our house, and poor Jura took to him of  course.  Jura
was stolen, and kept in prison somewhere for more  than a week, as I remember.  When he came
back Smeoroch had come  and taken my father's heart from him.  He took his stand like a  man,
and positively never spoke to my father again from that day  until the day of his death.  It
was the only sign of character he  ever showed.  I took him up to my room and to be my dog
in  consequence, partly because I was sorry for him, and partly because  I admired his dignity
in misfortune.

With best regards and thanks for having reminded me of so many  pleasant days, old acquaintances,
dead friends, and - what is  perhaps as pathetic as any of them - dead dogs, I remain, yours
truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO A. CONAN DOYLE

VAILIMA, SAMOA, SEPTEMBER 9, 1894.

MY DEAR CONAN DOYLE, - If you found anything to entertain you in my  TREASURE ISLAND article,
it may amuse you to know that you owe it  entirely to yourself.  YOUR 'First Book' was by some
accident read  aloud one night in my Baronial 'All.  I was consumedly amused by  it, so was
the whole family, and we proceeded to hunt up back  IDLERS and read the whole series.  It is
a rattling good series,  even people whom you would not expect came in quite the proper tone
- Miss Braddon, for instance, who was really one of the best where  all are good - or all but
one! ...  In short, I fell in love with  'The First Book' series, and determined that it should
be all our  first books, and that I could not hold back where the white plume  of Conan Doyle
waved gallantly in the front.  I hope they will  republish them, though it's a grievous thought
to me that that  effigy in the German cap - likewise the other effigy of the noisome  old man
with the long hair, telling indelicate stories to a couple  of deformed negresses in a rancid
shanty full of wreckage - should  be perpetuated.  I may seem to speak in pleasantry - it is
only a  seeming - that German cap, sir, would be found, when I come to die,  imprinted on my
heart.  Enough - my heart is too full.  Adieu. -  Yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

(in a German cap, damn 'em!)

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

[VAILIMA, SEPTEMBER 1894.]

MY DEAR CHARLES, - . . . Well, there is no more Edmund Baxter now;  and I think I may say I
know how you feel.  He was one of the best,  the kindest, and the most genial men I ever knew.
I shall always  remember his brisk, cordial ways and the essential goodness which  he showed
me whenever we met with gratitude.  And the always is  such a little while now!  He is another
of the landmarks gone; when  it comes to my own turn to lay my weapons down, I shall do so
with  thankfulness and fatigue; and whatever be my destiny afterward, I  shall be glad to lie
down with my fathers in honour.  It is human  at least, if not divine.  And these deaths make
me think of it with  an ever greater readiness.  Strange that you should be beginning a  new
life, when I, who am a little your junior, am thinking of the  end of mine.  But I have had
hard lines; I have been so long  waiting for death, I have unwrapped my thoughts from about
life so  long, that I have not a filament left to hold by; I have done my  fiddling so long
under Vesuvius, that I have almost forgotten to  play, and can only wait for the eruption,
and think it long of  coming.  Literally, no man has more wholly outlived life than I.   And
still it's good fun.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO R. A. M. STEVENSON

[VAILIMA, SEPTEMBER 1894.]

DEAR BOB, - You are in error about the Picts.  They were a Gaelic  race, spoke a Celtic tongue,
and we have no evidence that I know of  that they were blacker than other Celts.  The Balfours,
I take it,  were plainly Celts; their name shows it - the 'cold croft,' it  means; so does
their country.  Where the BLACK Scotch come from  nobody knows; but I recognise with you the
fact that the whole of  Britain is rapidly and progressively becoming more pigmented;  already
in one man's life I can decidedly trace a difference in the  children about a school door.
But colour is not an essential part  of a man or a race.  Take my Polynesians, an Asiatic people
probably from the neighbourhood of the Persian gulf.  They range  through any amount of shades,
from the burnt hue of the Low  Archipelago islander, which seems half negro, to the 'bleached'
pretty women of the Marquesas (close by on the map), who come out  for a festival no darker
than an Italian; their colour seems to  vary directly with the degree of exposure to the sun.
And, as with  negroes, the babes are born white; only it should seem a LITTLE  SACK of pigment
at the lower part of the spine, which presently  spreads over the whole field.  Very puzzling.
But to return.  The  Picts furnish to-day perhaps a third of the population of Scotland,  say
another third for Scots and Britons, and the third for Norse  and Angles is a bad third.  Edinburgh
was a Pictish place.  But the  fact is, we don't know their frontiers.  Tell some of your 
journalist friends with a good style to popularise old Skene; or  say your prayers, and read
him for yourself; he was a Great  Historian, and I was his blessed clerk, and did not know
it; and  you will not be in a state of grace about the Picts till you have  studied him.  J.
Horne Stevenson (do you know him?) is working this  up with me, and the fact is - it's not
interesting to the public -  but it's interesting, and very interesting, in itself, and just
now  very embarrassing - this rural parish supplied Glasgow with such a  quantity of Stevensons
in the beginning of last century!  There is  just a link wanting; and we might be able to go
back to the  eleventh century, always undistinguished, but clearly traceable.   When I say
just a link, I guess I may be taken to mean a dozen.   What a singular thing is this undistinguished
perpetuation of a  family throughout the centuries, and the sudden bursting forth of  character
and capacity that began with our grandfather!  They ARE anyway, and  whether I wish it or not.

I remember very well your attitude to life, this conventional  surface of it.  You had none
of that curiosity for the social stage  directions, the trivial FICELLES of the business; it
is simian, but  that is how the wild youth of man is captured; you wouldn't  imitate, hence
you kept free - a wild dog, outside the kennel - and  came dam' near starving for your pains.
The key to the business is  of course the belly; difficult as it is to keep that in view in
the  zone of three miraculous meals a day in which we were brought up.   Civilisation has become
reflex with us; you might think that hunger  was the name of the best sauce; but hunger to
the cold solitary  under a bush of a rainy night is the name of something quite  different.
I defend civilisation for the thing it is, for the  thing it has COME to be, the standpoint
of a real old Tory.  My  ideal would be the Female Clan.  But how can you turn these  crowding
dumb multitudes BACK?  They don't do anything BECAUSE;  they do things, write able articles,
stitch shoes, dig, from the  purely simian impulse.  Go and reason with monkeys!

No, I am right about Jean Lillie.  Jean Lillie, our double great- grandmother, the daughter
of David Lillie, sometime Deacon of the  Wrights, married, first, Alan Stevenson, who died
May 26, 1774, 'at  Santt Kittes of a fiver,' by whom she had Robert Stevenson, born  8th June
1772; and, second, in May or June 1787, Thomas Smith, a  widower, and already the father of
our grandmother.  This  improbable double connection always tends to confuse a student of 
the family, Thomas Smith being doubly our great-grandfather.

I looked on the perpetuation of our honoured name with veneration.   My mother collared one
of the photos, of course; the other is stuck  up on my wall as the chief of our sept.  Do you
know any of the  Gaelic-Celtic sharps? you might ask what the name means.  It  puzzles me.
I find a M'STEIN and a MACSTEPHANE; and our own great- grandfather always called himself Steenson,
though he wrote it  Stevenson.  There are at least three PLACES called Stevenson -  STEVENSON
in Cunningham, STEVENSON in Peebles, and STEVENSON in  Haddington.  And it was not the Celtic
trick, I understand, to call  places after people.  I am going to write to Sir Herbert Maxwell
about the name, but you might find some one.

Get the Anglo-Saxon heresy out of your head; they superimposed  their language, they scarce
modified the race; only in Berwickshire  and Roxburgh have they very largely affected the place
names.  The  Scandinavians did much more to Scotland than the Angles.  The  Saxons didn't come.

