  Wading the streams with carts in
tow, or in cases of unfordable streams, stopping to construct rafts; at times living on reduced
rations of but a few ounces of meal per day; lying down at night with a prayer in the heart
that they wake no more on earth, a prayer which had its fulfilment in hundreds of cases; the
dying heaving their parting sighs in the arms of loved ones who were soon to follow, they journeyed
on.

The inevitable catastrophes and accidents of travel robbed them of their substance.  Hostile
savages stampeded their cattle, or openly attacked and plundered the trains.  But on they went,
never swerving from the course.  These later companies needed no chart nor compass to guide
them over the desert; the road was plain from the marks of former camps, and yet more so from
the graves of friends and loved ones who had started before on the road to the earthly Zion
and found that it led them to the martyr's entrance to heaven, graves that were marked perhaps
but by a rude inscription cut on a pole or a board.  And even these narrow lodgings had not
been left inviolate; the wolves of the plains had too often succeeded in unearthing and rending
the bodies.  Every company thus made the course the plainer; each of them added to the silent
population of the desert; sometimes half a score were interred at one camp, and of one company
over a fourth were thus left beside the prairie road.  Now we traverse the self-same track
in a day and a night, reclining on luxurious cushions of ease, covering fifty miles while dining
in luxury; and we avert the ennui of the journey by berating the railway company for lack of speed.

Relief trains were continually on the way between the valley of the Salt Lake and the Missouri;
and the remnants of many a company were saved from what appeared to be certain destruction
by the opportune arrival of these rescuing parties.  Such relief came from those who were themselves
destitute and almost starving.  Brigham Young with a few of the chief officials of the Church,
and aids, returned eastward on such an errand of rescue within a few weeks after first reaching
the valley.  The region to which the early settlers came was in no wise a typical land of promise;
it did not flow spontaneously with milk and honey.

Drought and unseasonable frosts made the first year's farming experiments but doubtful successes,
and in the succeeding spring the land was visited by the devastating plague of the Rocky Mountain
crickets.  They swarmed down in innumerable hordes upon the fields, destroying the growing
crops as they advanced, devouring all before them, leaving the land a desert in their track.
The people scarcely knew how to withstand the assault of this new foe; they drove the marauders
into trenches there to be drowned or burned; men, women and every child that could swing a
stick, were called to the ranks in this insect war; and with all their fighting, the people
forgot not to pray for deliverance, and they fasted, too, for the best of reasons.

And as they watched, and prayed, and worked, they saw approaching from the north and west a
veritable host of winged creatures of more formidable proportions still; and these bore down
upon the fields as though coming to complete the devastation.  But see! these are of the color
that betokens peace; they are the gulls, white and beautiful, advancing upon the hosts of the
black destroyers.  Falling upon the people's foes, they devoured them by the thousand, and
when filled to repletion, disgorged and feasted again.  And they did not stop till the crickets
were destroyed.  Again the skeptic will say this was but chance; but the people accepted that
chance as a providential ruling in their behalf, and reverently did they give thanks.

Today the wanton killing of a gull in Utah is an offense in law; but stronger than legal proscription,
more powerful than fear of judicial penalties, is the popular sentiment in favor of these white-winged
deliverers.  Every year come these graceful creatures to spend the springtime in the fields
and upon the lakes of Utah; and right well do they feel their welcome, for they are habitually
so tame and fearless that they may almost be touched by the hand before they take flight.

By the autumn of 1848, five thousand people had already reached the valley, and the food problem
was a most difficult one.  The winter was severe; and famine, stark and inexorable, threw its
dread shadow over the people.  There seemed to be an entry in the book of fate that every possible
test of human endurance and integrity should be applied to this pilgrim band.  Without distinction
as to former station, they went out and dug the roots of weeds, gathered the tenderest of the
coarse grass, thistles, and wild berries, and thus did they subsist; upon such did they feast
with thanksgiving, until a less scanty harvest relieved their wants.

It was at this time that the gold fever was at its height, a consequence of the discovery of
the precious metal in California, in which discovery, indeed, certain members of the disbanded
"Mormon" Battalion, working their way eastward, were most prominent.  Some of the "Mormon"
settlers, becoming infected with the malady, hastened westward, but the counsel of the Church
authorities prevailed to keep all but a few at home.  But the gold-seekers hastening westward,
and the successful miners returning eastward, halted at the "Mormon" settlements and there
replenished their supplies, leaving their gold to enrich the people of the desert.

But of what use is gold in the wilderness!  In the old legend a famishing Arab, finding a well
filled bag upon the sand was thrilled with joy at the thought of dates--his bread; and then
was cast into the depths of despair when he realized that he had found nothing but a bag of
costly pearls.  The settlers by the lake needed horses and wagons, tools, implements of husbandry
and building; and gold was valuable only as it represented a means of obtaining these.  Gold
became so plentiful and was withal so worthless in the desert colony that men refused to take
it for their labor.  The yellow metal was collected in buckets and exported to the States in
exchange for the goods so much desired. Merchandise brought in by caravans of "prairie schooners,"
was sold as fast as it could be put out; and strict rules were enforced allowing but a proportionate
amount to each purchaser.

Within a few months after the first settlement of Utah, public schools were established; and
one of the early acts of the provisional government was to grant a charter to the Deseret University,
now known as the University of Utah.

Up to 1849, Utah had no political history.  Settling in a Mexican province, the contest to
determine its future ownership by the United States then in progress, the people in common
with most pioneer communities established their own form of government. But in February, 1848,
the treaty of Guadeloupe Hidalgo gave California to the United States; months passed, however,
before the news of the change reached the west.  Early in 1849, a call had been issued to "all
the citizens of that portion of Upper California lying to the east of the Sierra Nevada mountains"
to meet in convention at Great Salt Lake City; and there a petition was prepared asking of
Congress the rights of self-government; and pending action, a temporary regime was established,
under the name of the Provisional Government of the State of Deseret.

"Utah" was not the choice of the people as the name of their state; that word served but to
recall the degraded tribes who had contested the settlement of the valleys.  Deseret, a Book
of Mormon name for the honey bee, was more appropriate.  The petition of the people was denied
in part, and, in 1850 was established the territorial form of government in Utah. Concerning
the period of the provisional government, such men as Gunnison, Stansbury, and other federal
officials on duty in the west, have recorded their praises of the "Mormon" colonists in official
reports.  But with the un-American system of territorial government came troubles.

At first, many of the territorial officials were appointed from among the settlers themselves;
thus, Brigham Young was the first governor; but strangers, who knew not the people nor their
ways, filled with prejudice from the false reports they had heard, came from the east to govern
the colonists in the desert.  Of the federal appointees thus forced upon the people of Utah,
many made for themselves most unenviable records.

Some of them were broken politicians, professional office-seekers, with no desire but to secure
the greatest possible gain out of their appointment.  With effrontery that would shock the
modesty of a savage, the non-"Mormon" party adopted and flagrantly displayed the carpet-bag
as the badge of their profession.  But not all the officials sent to Utah from afar were of
this type; some of them were honorable and upright men, and amongst this class the "Mormon"
people reckon a number who, while opposed to their religious tenets, were nevertheless sincere
and honest in the opposition they evinced.

In the early part of 1857, the published libels upon the people received many serious additions,
the principal of which was promulgated in connection with the resignation of Judge Drummond
of the Utah federal court.  In his last letter to the United States attorney-general, he declared
that his life was no longer safe in Utah, and that he had been compelled to flee from his bench;
but the most serious charge of all was that the people had destroyed the records of the court,
and that they had resented, with hostile demonstration, his protests; in short, that justice
was dethroned in Utah, and that the people were in a state of open rebellion.

With mails three months apart, news traveled slowly; but as soon as word of this infamous charge
reached Salt Lake City, the clerk of the court, Judge Drummond's clerk, sent a letter by express
to the attorney-general, denying under oath the judge's statements, and attesting the declaration
with official seal.  The records, he declared, had been untouched except by official hands,
and from the time of the court's establishment the files had been safe and were then in his
personal keeping.  But, before the clerk's communication had reached its destination, so difficult
is it for stately truth to overtake flitting falsehood, the mischief had been done.  Upon the
most prejudiced reports utterly unfounded in fact, with a carelessness which even his personal
and political friends found no ample means of explaining away, President Buchanan allowed himself
to be persuaded that a "Mormon" rebellion existed, and ordered an army of over two thousand
men to proceed straightway to Utah to subdue the rebels. Successors to the governor and other
territorial officials were appointed, among whom there was not a single resident of Utah; and
the military force was charged with the duty of installing the foreign appointees.

