On the completion of this work, Spinello returned to Arezzo having received numerous favours
from the general and other monks, besides his payment. But he did not remain long there for
the city was in disorder owing to the feuds of the Guelph and Ghibelline parties and was just
then sacked. He removed with his family and his son Parri, who was learning painting, to Florence,
where he had a goodly number of friends and relations. In that city, in order to pass the time,
he painted an Annunciation in a tabernacle outside the gate at S. Piero Gattolini on the Roman
road, where the way branches to Pozzolatico, a work which is now half destroyed, and  other
pictures in another tabernacle, where the ruin of Galluzzo is. Being afterwards invited to
Pisa to finish in the Campo Santo beneath the life of St Ranieri the remainder of other subjects
in a blank space, in order to unite them to the scenes painted by Giotto, Simone of Siena,
and Antonio of Venice, he there executed in fresco six stories of St Petitus and St Epirus.
The first represents the saint as a young man, presented by his mother to the Emperor Diocletian,
and appointed general of the armies which were to march against the Christians. As he is riding
with his troop Christ appears to him, and showing him a white cross commands the youth not
to persecute Him. Another scene represents the angel of the Lord giving to the saint, while
he is riding, the banner of the Faith, with a white cross on a red field, which has ever afterwards
constituted the arms of the Pisans, because St Epirus had besought God to give him a sign to
wear against the enemy. Next to this is another scene of a fierce battle engaged between the
saint and the Pagans, many armed angels fighting for the victory of the former. Here Spinello
produced many things worthy of consideration in that day when art had not yet the ability nor
any good method of expressing the ideas of the mind in colour in a lively manner. Among many
other things in this composition are two soldiers, who have seized each other by the beard,
and are endeavouring to kill each other with the naked rapiers which they hold in their disengaged
hands; their faces and all the movement of their limbs show the desire of victory, their proud
spirits being without fear and of the highest courage. Also among those who are fighting on
horseback there is a finely executed knight who is fastening the head of an enemy to earth
with his lance, the other having fallen backward from his terrified horse. Another scene shows
the saint presented to the Emperor Diocletian, who is questioning him about the faith, and
who afterwards consigns him to the torture, putting him in a furnace in which he remains uninjured,
whilst the servants who are very ready on every side are burned in his stead. In short, all
the acts of the saint are shown, to his beheading, after which his soul is carried to Heaven.
The last scene shows the transportation of the bones and relics of St Petitus from Alexandria
to Pisa. The whole work in its colouring and conception is the finest, most finished, and best
executed of Spinello's paintings, and this is shown by its present excellent state of preservation,
for its fresh appearance excites the wonder of everyone who sees it. When this work in the
Campo Santo was completed, Spinello painted in the church of S. Francesco, in the second chapel
from the high altar, many stories of St Bartholomew, St Andrew, St James, and St John the apostles,
and he might perhaps have remained longer at work in Pisa, because his paintings were admired
and rewarded there, but seeing the city thrown into an uproar and turned upside down through
the murder of M. Pietro Gambacorti by the Lanfranchini, who were Pisan citizens, he once more
removed to Florence with all his family, for he was by this time an old man. He remained there
for one year only, and in the chapel of the Macchiavelli in S. Croce, dedicated to SS. Philip
and James, he did many stories of the life and death of those saints. The picture of the chapel
he did at Arezzo, and sent it on from there in the year 1400, for he was anxious to return
to his native place, or, to speak more correctly, to the place which he looked upon as such.
Having thus returned thither at the age of seventy-seven or more, he was lovingly received
by his relations and friends, and remained there, much loved and honoured, until the end of
his life, which was in the ninety-second year of his age. Although at the time of his return
to Arezzo he was quite an old man, and had enough property to enable him to live without working,
yet he could not remain idle, since he had always been accustomed to work, and undertook to
do some stories of St Michael for the company of S. Agnolo in that city. Whereby your price
may farther perceiue that there is the chiefe riuer, no port, no towne, no citie, no prouince
of any reckoning in having the West Indies, as hath not here some specification are thereof, aswell
for the good that the sea-corner. Having afterwards agreed upon the price with the wardens, he completed the entire
front of the high altar, representing Lucifer establishing his seat in the north, and the fall
of the angels who change into devils as they rain upon the earth. In the air is St Michael
fighting with the serpent of seven heads and ten horns, and in the middle of the lower part
is Lucifer already changed into a hideous monster. It gave Spinello so much satisfaction to
make him horrible and distorted that it is said (so great is the power of imagination) that
the figure in the picture appeared to him in a dream, and demanded when the artist had seen
him so ugly, asking why he did him so great an indignity with his brush. Spinello awoke from
his dream speechless from fear, and shook so violently that his wife hastened to assist him.
Yet he ran considerable risk of dying suddenly, through the failure of the heart, owing to
this misfortune, and it caused his death a short while afterwards, until when he lived in an
utterly dispirited manner with wide open eyes. He died greatly lamented by his friends, and
left the world two sons--one called Forzore was a goldsmith, who did some admirable work in
niello in Florence; the  other, Parri, who followed his father and pursued the art of painting,
far surpassing Spinello in design. The Aretines were much grieved at this sad chance, although
Spinello was old, at being deprived of ability and excellence such as his. He died at the age
of ninety-two, and was buried in S. Agostino at Arezzo, where there is a stone with a coat
of arms made after a fancy of his own, containing a hedgehog. Spinello was far better able
to design than to put his thoughts into practice, as our book of designs shows, which contains
two Evangelists and a St Louis by his hand, all very fine. His portrait given above was taken
by me from one which was in the old Duomo before it was pulled down. His paintings were executed
between the years 1380 and 1400.

Gherardo Stamina, Painter of Florence.

