 

1901

Professor Dean C. Worcester

dedicates this work

.= = The Author

ETYMOLOGY

OF

NAMES
OF RACES OF THE PHILIPPINES

BY THE

Dr. TH Pardo de Tavera.

After the story of a thousand and five hundred islands that make up
the Philippine Archipelago is that of the "hundreds of races that
inhabit the islands Babylonian confusion," as says a geographical
lyrical author who wrote about this country.

By omission of rocks, boulders, insignificant islets, many without
vejetación, others with only one species of birds and some insects
and wildlife, and most without a human being who will live in them,
are, as inhabited islands and only have, being the Philippines, a
few from Luzon, which is the largest, to that of Cagayancillo, which
is one of the tiniest.

So it is with the famous 'races' pompous name whose meaning has been
confused by applying it to political groups in no different from each
other.

Recent ethnographic studies have shown that the races that inhabit
our islands are three, viz: Negritos, Indonesian and Malay.

But these breeds are not only various miscegenation but a great variety of tribes mainly characterized
by languages ​​or, rather speak Filipino dialects. If we will found in linguistic reasons for
give names to the different groups of men, the number of races called Philippine to be quite
grown, not yet come to the figure reached today and the teacher Blumentritt had the patient
work together in alphabetical order a brochure published in Spanish with the title "The races of
the Philippine archipelago."

As powerfully clear linguistic studies anthropological issues, I believed that would be useful
to information to establish the etymology of the names today apply
to the different tribes, with the name of races, Philippines.

Political divisions of the islands almost always respond to divisions based on language, so that,
beginning with taking charge of the names that characterize the provinces when these are applied
to groups that speak the same language, found on the island of Luzon the following: Tagalog, Pampanga,
Bicol, Pangasinan, sambal, Ilocano, Ibanag or Cagayan. After see that within each of these provinces
have different tribes, many with language carrying different, for this reason or another unknown,
a different name.

Visayas applies to three dialects spoken in Cebu, Iloilo and Negros: Calamian or Cuyo is also
pool name linguist and Mindanao to get see that not a territorial
division the character is already in Luzon.

Many tribes have by name, a geographical name: another reason is discovered topographic, or local
customs, or other relationship with neighboring tribes. Sometimes names are simply applied to local
residents, other times the source the name does not appear so clear and to discover its etymology
is to start by decomposing to discover the root as discussed below.

For convenience we divide the names that we shall study in the following groupings:

Compounds with the prefix Taga. "With the prefix I. "With the prefix A. "With the prefix Ma
"With the Non prefix. "With the prefix and suffix Ka W 'in other ways.

* * * * *

TAGA prefix.

This prefix, to join names, it means "native of it, natural."

       Used alone, has no significance whatsoever and we find the following
names to form clusters Ethnic: TAGALOG, TAGABALOY, TAGABAWA, TAGABULU,
TAGABELI, TAGACAOLO, TAGABANUA or Tagbanúas, etc. etc.

The meaning
of such code is provided for us Polynesian languages: in Samoa is
called taga-ta man, in Tahiti, losing the g we find the word taa-ta.

It is therefore undoubtedly that taga, prefix with no real meaning
today as isolated voice, originally meant "man."

Now, consider the etymology of the other voices to which we find attached, to name tribes more
or less important.

One of the major linguistic groups in the Philippines is composed
of the Tagalog with which name are called the inhabitants of the provinces
of Manila, Bulak, Nueva Ecija, Bataan, part of Tarlac, Laguna, Tayabas
and the District of Morong, with about 1,250,000 individuals.

 Probably in those days were called alog those lands, and the name, outdated
and obsolete in today's Tagalog, has been only in Pangasinan.

The Indians who inhabited the highlands as today called taga-Bukit (bukit 'land high) and the mountains
taga-bundok (bundok, "the mountain"). In the lagoon itself, the inhabitants its banks were known by
the name of taga-Doong, so people also called of the plain. Doong
means' pier, place, or cuddle shore where boats.

"

While in Manila called taga-bundok to the Highlanders, in Laguna knew they by Tinguianes.

I had read some authors hit the floor ting, noting the difference the language that existed
between the inhabitants of the Ting and valleys. Undoubtedly wanted once say 'mountain', and that
meaning, lost today in Tagalog, there is still Malay. Looking for references to this voice,
I found the following in the Words of Fr Santos: "The Ting are from the mountains of San Pablo
by Nagcarlan to Calaylayan, where he was Header formerly Tayabas, and then run the hills of Cabinti
up Ulinguling, that is top of Mabitac. "A few lines before he said:" The Ting own or woodlands
which leaves no doubt as to the significance attached to this voice.

From left Tinguian tingui formed with its fixed an serving here to name people.

The inhabitants of the province now called Batangas not initially
called Tagalog.

Fr San Agustin, in his History, says (p. 424): "Speak Tagalog language, which calls Comintana,
all that land by province called COMINT.

"

We can not find the etymology of COMINT, but look the other names that we statement with the
prefix taga.

Tagabawa is the name given to the mestizo means Bagobos, Manobo and tagakaolos that by Montano,
are scattered on both sides of the gulf of Davao (Mindanao) near Son River. Bawa means "below
the bottom", referring no doubt to river because those who live upriver from the same region
are called taga-Kaol being the meaning of ka-olo, "part towards the
head, or the origin of the river."

In Mindanao, known also the tagabaloy, a name which may be a variant
of tagabeli and tagabulu, probably originated from the name of Laguna
Bulu-an, but here we would enter in the realm of hypothesis, because
we lack (and I speak personally for me), news topographic and linguists
firm enough to talk about things in Mindanao.

We know that in the language of many of those tribes in the Bagobos, for example, taga prefix
has the same meaning as in Tagalog and wider still, because there is significance of man who
possesses or has this or that object, preceded by the prefix.

On the island of Paragua, Palawan or live on the coast Moors who came from Jolo and Mindanao and within
some indigenous idolaters, considered Aboriginal struggle with the sea and who call themselves
Tagbanuas. Banu, the voice of Polynesian origin (fenua, "land") means
in most of the Visayan languages ​​"land, country and population also."

       Clearly Tagbanúas is understood that means "man of the country" or
in other words, "Indians."

On the island of Panay was formerly called and also tagubanua tagolabon
banuanon and a god who, they said, lived in the fields and woods.

We should note that in this name see linguists two procedures: the first is used as the Tagalog,
using the affix taga, and the second form with the suffix non Bikol has the same meaning.

* * * * *

Prefix I.

Almost all compounds with the kennel name I belong to most hill tribes Northern Luzon are: Ibalibon,
Ibilaw, Ifugaw, Igorots (Igolot) Ilongot, Isinay, Iraya, Italon, Itawe. Ilokano é Ibanag that
inhabit the plains, the Ibalon in South Luzon and The Idan in Paragua.

To find their etymologies will resort to the language spoken by the kagayanes, the Ilokano and gaddanes
that are most important to that region.

The prefix I in Ibanag, a language spoken by the indigenous civilizations that inhabited the regions
Call Cagayan and Isabela, has the same meaning as in Tagalog taga. Says P. Splendor Cave in
grammar Ibanag that 'prefixed to the names of provinces, kingdoms and towns, a patrician names:
eg Ilal-loc, Lal-loc man, I Spain, a man of Spain.

"

Ibanag the same name, means "inhabitant of Banaga," which is the name of the river called Grande
de Cagayan. Originally called Ibanag to the inhabitants of the shores of that Aparry river from which
population is nearby the sea, to the region called disseminate, and more properly from Aparri
to Takalawa, a district of Lalo, to Gataran.

Based on this principle, let us see the etymology of the other names mentioned, noting that, as
we know them today in its Spanish form, we begin by deprive them of the foreign elements that appear
in your build, to consider only an indigenous form.

The italones (italon) lived in the ancient forests that extend to the northeast tip of Pampanga,
being now in the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Principe. Language Gadda, heel means "mountain"
in what follows that italon means "mountain." Comes in support of this interpretation of Itaú
supply faucets, strictly itaw depriving them of the termination indicating plural is Castilian,
which is the name of some infidels living in the plains adjacent to the above. In Gadda, voice
taw means "sowing."

Iday, said Blumentritt, which is the name of a dialect of Negritos of Cagayan, however, is but
a variant called Iraya with a tribe of savages, apparently mixed the Negritos and Malays, who
live south of the Kalataganes on the western side of the mountain range Palawan. Daya, Raya or Saya
means "East" and "South" in several languages N. region of Luzon, but in this case, refers to
E. because, although we know that they are to S. of kalataganes is not the topographical relationship
to these giving them the name but their situation with respect to the Itetapanes. Here are
some Montagnards living in the O. of Isabela de Luzon, west of the Iday and the name says so, because
in Ibanag, Telapan Tatalapan and means the 'West'. The Katalanganes are the same men who Iraya speak
the language these and its name comes from the river on whose banks they inhabit, name which, in
turn, is derived from Talang, a pine species in those sites grows in abundance.

Commonly called Igorots the savages who inhabit the mountains of Luzon
and even other islands, but in the ancient chronicles Filipino known
only to that name Igolot or rather, in true Indian form, the infidels
living in Benguet and nearby Mount Sto.

Thomas. Now understood to also appoint the bloodthirsty savages North of Luzon, but the German
ethnographer Hans Meyer and then Dr. Schadenberg, say should only be so called infidels who inhabit
Benguet and Lepanto. The fact is that Tinguian same as the voice Igorot in the Philippines
is used as synonymous with "savage mountain." This name means the same as Tinguian 'quiet'
in Tagalog root Golota, who composes, means "mountain range" and though this voice is not the
only dictionary Ibanag that form there, you can not say why that
was not known in that language, as known in ancient tinguished voice
in Tagalog.

It's called a dialect spoken inibaloy by the Igorots and this voice, in Ilocano, simply means "language
of foreigners."

The so-called infidels Isinays are about living in the western part of the Nueva Vizcaya also
known by the name of Ituyes by province formerly called the county Ituy they inhabit. Its etymology
does not seem very clear: sina, in Ilocano means "segregation separation
of persons' voice that I find acceptable as a radical of the name
of tribe when you consider that one of them is called Ilongot longot
formed a word that in Ilocano means "meeting, assembly, aggregation
of people."

These same Ilongots, customs and bloodthirsty savages who inhabit the regions bordering the provinces
of Nueva Vizcaya, Isabela and Principe, are also called ibilaos, (Indigenous form is ibilaw),
whose etymology, try as I have done, is for me complete darkness. The italones that we mentioned
before, are of the same tribe race: at least Dominican missionaries
say the peoples italones New High Ecija, belong to the ibilaos and
these are also known by the name of Ilongot.

Another large tribe of Malay race who lived in the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Isabela, is Ifugaw
call that appears to be one of the most ancient of Luzon, whose etymology
is explained the Ibanag where we see that iafugw means "island."

Today, all of that race, forming groups called silipanes, quianganes, Mayoyao and bungianes (names
topographic) have been re-concentrated to form the villages and towns of the command of Qiang.

Is
known to yogades (yogad) or to a montañeces gaddañes currently living on the slopes of the Cordillera
Central, the western boundary of the province of Isabela, from the left bank of the Magat River,
river end of the Mercedes, to the jurisdiction Christian peoples Itawes.

The etymology of both names gives us Ibanag language resembles both Gadda, resulting Gadd and yogad
that have the same meaning and origin, only the first is the name
of second place and the tribe.

Both radical derived from gad ugad whose oldest form, there also in Ibanag and means "sowing
high." This root, followed by the suffix an, means "Instead of sowing high" as we saw payaw meant
"low sowing or irrigation." The inhabitants of Gadda, called today so this place name, met in
the old by personal names, which is formed with the prefix yogad i know the meaning of which and
the radical equal to gad ugad we have examined.

Have failed my research on the etymology of other names such as some suppose ILOKO Influenced
by the analogy, derived from ilog 'dweller river, "without noting that the radical referred to
ends with g, and examined by voice k: i also the word ilog, river,
not as in ILOKO, a prefix, but an integral part radical.

I can not say anything about Ibalon, the old name that was given
to the people of Camarines.

Ilamut, Igorot tribe that resides in the mountains located between
Nueva Vizcaya and Benguet, radical seems formed lamut Gadda, "mixture",
meaning perhaps mestizo is etymology only probable.

       

Iday is variable yraya already examined.

Ilan, Illanes, lanos, wool, malanao are names given to certain people
pirates the coast of Mindanao.

Are different forms of composition of wool or lanun name radical geographical part of that
island.

* * * * *

Ma Prefix

In almost all Philippine languages ​​contraction May or ma or me is
a prefix meaning 'Have, possess.

" With him are adjectives. Putian, white radical, it is maputi, "that is white ", ie white tamis
matamís of having or has sweetness," sweet. "

There is thus an infinite number of names that have been applied after the inhabitants of Instead,
as Maguindanaw, Malanaw Mamanuas, &. &.

Maguindanaw is the indigenous name of the island of Mindanao or rather, only part of it. Its inhabitants
are called the same way. Continued Danaw, water and lagoon, and applied this name to this region
around the great lake of Danaw.

For the Moors called Illanes, Ilan Malanaw are also referred to, has the same derivation that Maguindanaw:
lanaw, danaw variant, and the voice Illan, strictly speaking Ilan has the same i affix origin,
used more in the languages ​​of the north of the archipelago.

The mamanuas are some infidels who inhabit the Surigao peninsula and
the shores of Lake of Mainit (Mindanao).

Fr Jaime Planas Jesuit calls them "black natives of Mindanao" view identical to that of the
Jesuit PJB Heras confirmed by the French ethnographer Mr. Montano. The etymology comes to corroborate
this view, showing that the name of those black boys Banu is derived
from land, country; mamanua "inhabitants of the country" with a phonetic
transformation of b in m.

A mountain tribe of infidels in the interior
of Mindanao, whose district is not known to me accuracy, or mananapes
mananap called in Spanish form.

Language of Bagobos, mananap means "beast, animal" thus explains the concept of these neighbors have
those in the same island called Manobo, Bagobo voice that means "man."

These Manobo are Malay and inhabit the Agusan River Basin from Moncayo to Butuan: also found in
other sites on the island mainly at Cape San Agustin in east coast of Davao and the island of
Sarangani Tumanao or the East. Also is named to the other idolatrous infidels in Mindanao, and is
easy to understand that this term embraces distant tribes to be so widespread and attending
to what it really means.

The Jesuit Father Pastells talks about mangu called infidels living in or mangulangan the proximity
of Cateel (Mindanao) and the upper river Salug. Its name means "men or inhabitants of the jungle.
"

A faithless people inside the island of Mindoro are called Manguianes. In Tagalog, Bicol and
Visayan, Manguier means "savage, wild, black infidels", so that the
use of this word is common to a great number of Filipinos, but, however,
has only been applied to certain inhabitants of Mindoro.

       Originally, no doubt, the name was given only to the that today carry
on that island, but its use in three Philippine languages ​​shows
that ngian radical in all these languages ​​have a sense now forgotten.

Still exists in Pampanga this radical and means "old", so that we
can deduce that is name mangia applied to men considered old settlers
and as such pushed into by modern invaders in their own language were
called "old."

As it turned out later that newcomers were or were more civilized than the vanquished pushed into
or to the mountains, consider these as feral or wild and appeal made by former extension of this
new meaning. So it is with the voice Tagbanúas, whose etymology we have clarified, "Natural
country", that being the name of infidel Rangers today means "savages
Paragua "simply because the idea of ​​'wild' replaces the old meaning
voice that was lost with many others.

* * * * *

Ka affix and suffix W

It is common to almost all Philippine languages ​​form adjectives and nouns with the procedure
prefixed to the root of the prefix ka and postpone an.

Names regularly and compounds are referring to place and these have been applied after its inhabitants.
This is true Cagayan, Kalagan, Kalibugan, Katalangan, Katubagan and many others.

Other ways.

Just as we have seen the names applied indiscriminately Tinguian Igorot and the Infidels that inhabit
the mountains, so we found in northern Luzon as usually the name
Kalinga applied to the mountain people of that region, we read in
the writings of the friars report them with the voice of the Calinguismo.

Some tribes are given to each other and the name of Kalinga The reason is simple: in almost all
those dialects SIGIF "enemy", and as the main occupation of these savages is a constant struggle
of one tribe to another is clear that all called with the same voice:
"enemy", Kalinga.

Non suffix used in Bicol and Visayan as taga also
in Tagalog, and so we called buquidnon to a Malay race infidels who
inhabit the eastern tip of the district of Misamis and the Spanish
call wild is really the translation of that name filipino lead. Farmers
are being called in Visayan banuahanon Banu, "land, country."

The
Mindanao tirurays call themselves etew rootor, "people upstairs" (the
river), etew dawa 'people down, "the plain, the slopes of the rivers,
etew dogot," seafarer " the coast and etew tuduk, the Highlanders.

The
lack of vocabulary of all Filipino dialects I can fruitfully follow
full etymological study of the names of races or tribes, but with
this we see that all have the same or identical training. Hácenlo dead children are in heaven, and which allows Father
God, this night, they come to play with the Nativity. "

All this came to an end, and was again flutter away.

Attended many of those present to examine the damage, and a man said:

"It has sunk the table and all figures have been upset."

Began to collect the figures and to put in order. After careful counting and recognize one by
one all the pieces, something was missing. Searched and researched, but to no avail. It was two
figures: the mule and the ox.

X

And close the day, the rioters were way to heaven, happier than a
lark, hopping through those clouds, and there were millions of millions,
all precious, pure, divine, with short white wings that beat faster
than the fastest bird on earth.

The band formed was larger than what they can cover their eyes in space visible and covered
the moon and stars, as if the sky full of clouds.

"A rush, to hurry, young gentlemen, who is going to be day - one said,
- and Grandpa is going to fight if we are late.

Births worthless this year .... When one remembers those ...!» times

Celinina went with them, and as for the first time walking in those altitudes, it is reckless
a little.

"Come here - I said one - give me your hand and you will fly right
over .... But what have you got there?

- This - said Celinina pressing
against his chest two coarse clay animals .-- They are pa me, pa me.

-
Look, kid, pull those dolls.

Well now it is known that salt of the earth. Know that although the games have eternal Heaven,
always delicious, Grandpa sent us to the world tonight that wrapped
up a bit in the Birth.

Have fun up there too tonight, and I think we sent down to them dizzy
with the great noise that we put .... But if Father God let us down
and walk through the houses, is on condition that we not take anything,
and you've striven that.

"

Celinina did not take charge of these powerful reasons, and most pressing
against your chest two animals, repeated:

- Pa me, pa me.

- Look,
dummy, - said the other, - if you ignore that we're going to cause
an upset.

Low in flight, and leave that which is of the earth and the earth
should be.

At one point leave and come back, silly.

I wait in this cloud. "

Celinina finally relented, and down, gave land to his theft.

XI

So noted that Celinina beautiful body, what the person was visible,
in his hands, instead of flowers, two clay critters.

Neither women the veiled, neither the father nor the mother knew
how to explain this, but the pretty girl, so mourned of all, entered
the land in their cold little hands squeezing the Mule and Ox.

December 1876.

FEATHER IN THE WIND

Ó

THE JOURNEY OF LIFE

Poe ....[ 1]

INTRODUCTION

On the matted floor of the yard between an eggshell and a piece of radish, about where they drank
half a bowl of chicken and about two inches of arugula that had been
born at the site without asking anyone's permission, lay a small and
very light pen, apparently fall some pigeon neck neighbor, ten minutes
before had stopped stroking female oh condescension! by D. John that
was raging on the rooftops of the neighborhood.

The pen was sad, ugly and lonely. From where the pen was not seen anything but the top of some
brown planted outside the wall, the steeple of the church with its
dented auction, after the manner of old hat, the big stick and a poplar
lackluster invalid and almost dying, and the tiles of the adjacent
house, which on stormy days sprinkled with plenty of cried the yard
and garden.

The vine, the vine and honeysuckle bush, barely covered between three full extent of the wall,
bristling with broken glass on top, which served as impregnable bulwark against foxes and little
boys.

This reduced the landscape, in addition to the vast and ever-beautiful sky, so splendid day
as imposing and mysterious night.

The pen (why should not we give it life?) Lay, as we, along with several objects rather ignoble,
own the place, and constantly exposed to be trodden by the barbarian plant geese, chickens and
even other little animals but clean and decent had room in a nearby swamp.

I must not say that the pen must be very boring, as if a soul have delicate, air and supple
body, the consequence is that the soul could not live happy described in the corral. By a mysterious
harmony between the elements of that be if the body looked like a ghost of matter, the soul had
been created to fly and soar heights, rising to the longest distance possible on the ground, in
which ever mud should touch the lace of her subtle almost imperceptible cover. For this was
born certainly, but it, like us men remained predestination an empty word. Was the poor in
the corral, lamenting his fate, staring at the sky, without distraction in the wind see the
whites of her clothes festoons undefiled, and saying in the unknown language of feathers: "I
do not know how annoying stand this life. It's better to die a hundred times. "

Other equally sad lot said, but at the same moment a gust of wind who put in turmoil all straw
and small objects thrown in the pen, the suspended, Unexpected oh joy! raising it on the ground
more than half a yard. For short time was fluctuating back and forth, threatening to fall at times
and going back others with large din of the chickens, who saw this white thing was walking
through the air such majesty, went behind her waiting for her in the fall, hoping it was something
eating. But the wind blew more loudly, and with a strong swirling around the campus the pen,
drew it out quickly. When she saw higher than the wall, higher than the house, the chestnut, the
height of poplar, trembled all over with excitement and admiration. Arribita there, the wind
swayed, holding no violent shaking, seemed to sway in visible hammock or in the arms of a loving
genius. From there, what a sight!

Down the pen with chickens scratching constantly restless, the garden, the house, the chestnut
trees poplar, how small what once seemed so big! Then, the whole expanse of beautiful Valley
village of houses, trees, flowers, cattle, in the distance the mountains with their slopes
covered with forests, red and blue eminences and peaks encaperuzadas with a whiteness in which
our traveler thought he saw huge piles of feathers above the endless sky, the morning sun making
bright colors throughout the landscape, water scribbling ray of light producing reflections
quivering in the foliage of the elms, and reverberating in the crops
straw scattered here and there patches of poppies.

This itself is called live! Tremendous thing would be to fall back into the corral.

The pen, at the height of his joy, found no better way to express it spinning on its axis, so that
although its members orearan wet and shivering, bathed in the sun fluffy, cupping with some tiny
fringe vanity that your body is composed. The sun shone in between the interstices of one thousand
wonderful fit, and our traveler was seen threads of glass dressed more tenuous than that spiders
tend branch to branch, and covered with diamonds, emeralds and rubies ranging from light to
every move, and so tiny, the grains of sand mountains appear at his side.

Extending the view of the valley, the mountains, the horizon, and wanting to cross it all to the end,
was in the pen work of a moment. His amazement and joy knew no bounds, and if at first surprise
kept at that height, rambling, without detracting from their status First, after a bit and feeling
Serenada on his chest (?) the fire of enthusiasm, was launched in
the immense space, genie arms.

Gone pen, house, village, the tower of the church, as a giant panicked, was walking too large
to miss Zanchetta of view. In the excitement of that giddy flight, the pen sometimes rose so
high, I could barely distinguish objects, others down to almost to the ground, and looked
their fleeting image in the green surface of the puddles. Sometimes going back then, that seemed
confused with the clouds and disappear into the vast ocean of space down sometimes Therefore, it very
nearly touched the ground, and in language unknown to the wind said: "Put me down a little
friend, I get dizzy at these heights, "or" please pick me up, buddy, I'm going to fall in that quagmire.
"

The wind, compliant vehicle, up and down as desired, always walk,
and spent valleys, rivers, mountains, hills, towns, without stopping.

On their journey, the pen never stopped admire what he saw. The birds spent singing along to it,
the butterflies stopped, watching her in amazement, we fail to understand if it was a living thing
or object carried by the wind.

When they were near land and went skimming over brambles and thorny plants, you'd think all
bristling barbs and claws to get it, and fly over a pond, geese returning from the bank's head
sideways at her, and hopefully to see her fall, ran screeching after it: - "Lift me up, buddy,"
he cried, refusing to hear these barbarians. "

CANTO FIRST

And rose to the top of the mountain, passing the ridge, and traveled another valley, and so
all the way, never stopping. Both walked the pen, feeling satisfied their curiosity, swirled,
gave a few turns on itself, and told the genius that drove:

"You know we've run enough? Do not be chosen in place to take a break? Ay, friend! Although he
wanted to leave the pen to travel the world, you believe that what I like is the quiet and
peaceable life. For a moment I thought that happiness is to fly from here to there, seeing
different things every minute, and receive different impressions. And I'm convinced it is better
to remain quietly in one place a not be as ugly as poultry, live without fear or danger. I see there,
near the river, large trees, which I think the most beautiful place we found on our trip. "

Drew
near and saw indeed that the shade of those trees was the site most appealing and delicious than a
pen could aspire to spend their days.

Fine lawn covered the ground near the river ran with gentle flow, not so quick to drag and Turning
the soil of the green margins, nor so slow that muddied the waters:
easy was to count all the stones from the bottom, but not the multitude
of fish that wander over its transparent glass.

The branches of trees, living sifting the sunshine, kept in warm darkness the small meadow, and
from there all the insects had fled importunate and dirty, and all birds irrelevant and frivolous.
The few things that were there pitch or with a permanent residence, were the most learned and distinguished
of creation: insects dresses gold and decorated with wonderful jewels,
birds sang sentimental and discrete their love in courtly style, and
only at certain hours of the morning or afternoon.

It was noon, and all were silent at the top of the branches, entertaining spirit in abstract meditations.

'Fresh
and beautiful place this is! - Said the ruffled feathers of enthusiasm to be there .-- Here
I spend my whole life, all, all, I repeat not safely complete range of purpose.

Wandered beneath the shade of the trees, sliding on the cool grass, when he saw approaching a
shepherd, guiding two dozen sheep with the odd lamb, and a dog that served custody and companionship.
The pastor was concerned, walking, weaving a crown of flowers that brought on the side, and such was
her beauty, grace and elegance, the pen was absorbed.

He sat the girl, and the pen again soaring through the air, spun around his admiring up close and
from afar, and the whiteness of complexion, and expression and brightness eyes and black hair, and
his lips turned on, each and every one of the perfections copy of such creature.

"Here I have to be a lifetime - the traveler exclaimed in his convoluted language .-- This really
is live. I never tire of looking at it, but live a thousand years. What I have done well to settle
here ... and what a great thing to love! Thank God I've found happiness. How sweet he spends his
time looking at her, now and then and always! What pleasure equal to that of skim her hair and
stroking her forehead with my flequitos?

What I can be more ambitious than let me slip from his neck to sneak ... I do not know where,
or hide in your clothes and meat tickling estarme there for all eternity? This drives me crazy
... and indeed I am madly in love.

Here and not away from it for a moment, I spend all life. "

The pen was flying and falling away around the pastor, until he came to rest gently on his shoulder,
and he made a thousand grimaces and fuss with their fringes. He saw the girl that object White,
who at first tried to be anything but delicate falling branches of the tree, and took her,
squeezed between his fingers and threw it from him with contemptuous indifference. A while
later called to his flock and left.

Much took our unfortunate traveler return from his swoon. He opened his eyes in vain sought
the object of his tender passion, recognizing the site, shaking his bruised sockets and broken,
and gave the wind its complaints in this way:
"Oh, little wind, get me out of here, for the blessed souls, lift
me up, I am dying of sadness. I want to run again, as I now understand
that happiness does not exist in what I thought. Good silly I was!
Love is not only fatigue and pain. Just love that I know tired and
what it brings. We'll fly again, and go where you want, buddy. I really
I say that I carry these trees and the river: I'm already up to the
crown of lawns, meadows, streams and birds. Let us make a turn into
the world. Lift me: I go up clouds. That is, the way I like: Lift
me up all you can. Look, there in the distance is reached to see a
house that has to be very large: Do you see how bright the sunlight,
as if it were silver, and next is again and again, many, many houses?
No doubt that is what called a city. That's what I want to see. Thank
God I find what I like. Let's go right there, and let us hills and
valleys, places unfit for this my genius ... Now, now you look closely
the city. The mercy that I have, ... tions! I key in the forehead. "

Madrid, February 1889.

END OF THE NOVEL

FEATURE ARTICLE

I

"Enough of contemplations. Stop conspiracies. Enough of weakness. The time has come energies. We
believed that the facts as clear as in the minds of everyone, be presented at last in his
awful gravity foolish in the eyes of power, who heads public affairs. Judging that any obfuscation,
however great, must have its limits, we believed that the Government I could not resist the evidence
of his discredit, we believed that deposing own stubbornness all the powers that do not rely
on opinion, be resolved at last to enter more clear and safe way, if not regarded as the best of
the amendments on leave public life. We expected restless before the great evils which afflict
the fatherland expected silent, while knowing the day and more and more serious errors "in
this senseless Government. We waited until the last, until the scandals have been intolerable.
We silent, silent as the grave was not necessary.

There is no hope. We must not hide the truth to the country, and we would be failing the first
of our duties, if a moment they continue in this attitude. Our patriotism impels us to act in
this way, and as know that public opinion is the only ....»

At this point, the author of the article is stopped. The inspiration, so to say, it is had concluded,
and as if the effort to create the preceding paragraphs occur fatigue in his imagination, he
stopped, intending to continue, when the various ideas that suddenly and came in droves to their
imagination soar.

So poor was his understanding that there is no news that good things never occur, it should
not be taken by such their lucubrations soporific about the origin of the powers public and the
balance of social forces was also short, wayward, for ever could purchase or shadow method. Excelled
in the digressions, and when he was working on developing either a thesis, there was no human
power that made specific to the case, preventing their breaks, and
the field of history and into the jungle of morality, and the intricacies
of archeology or numismatics.

For all these fields, mountains and hills running complacent and elated the imagination of the
author on the bottom, when the logical thread interrupted of it, and forgotten about it and
foiled the plan, occupied his mind, seizing her in a run down, violent and as a surprise, the intrusive
ideas that has merit.

They came from all objects of all illusions, all the memories, a thousand various sources that
flowed at once an endless stream. Vinolé thought I do not know What piece of history, which
linked the image of a bishop of Astorga, so stubborn a swashbuckling
soldier cleric.

She remembered the towers he had seen in Mozarabic an ancient city, and at the same time offered
the view lakes and gardens, not without afease this show suddenly some animal form portly, disgusting
ugliness. Tan he was soon representing the lines of a romance that had long read in yellow and wrinkled
codices, as was the distant sound of organ music, sweet and mysterious.

With much abandonment is given to imagination roam this comfortable, loose and free, without
dry locks reasoning, no one will sign the hold or the facing to develop hardly the literary product,
one, of course, of special shape and texture!

The imagination of the poor journalist had managed to escape in those moments when article
had not yet passed their childhood, and had only small number of items. The imagination of the
writer declined, after running from here to there, with the joyous concern of a bird, seeing the rods
broken his cage, he escapes and flies to all parts without noticing any, was carried out in the
end, was set regularized little by little.

Among the few items of Article interrupted shortly after birth sedated his first idea, come the lines,
the shadows and lights of an immense Gothic cathedral. Grow its beam columns, stained soft brown
tinge, up to an enormous height, spreading then the twisted stems to form the vaults. Descend
from the ceiling, as if they were suspended and almost invisible elastic cords, lamps or, their
blinking lights not enough to overshadow the diaphanous color of the glass, which filled with
saints and figures shining seem to communicate with the sky inside the temple. Thousand figures
are standing on the wall as if an invisible hand carvings in the stone with supernatural promptly,
and lush flora portentously grows along the columns, holding in their cups grotesque animal or implausible,
that appear to have been caused by unknown pathogen in the bowels stone. The statues smashed
on the walls multiply, displayed in rows, series, in endless cycles, and they are all rigid
and stiff in their faces portraying boredom Limbo or the calm of Paradise. Alternate with them symbolic
beings created by Christian statuary, and seem sacrilegious abomination of paganism and theology.
Dragons, sibyls, biblical monsters to represent abstractions devised subtle genius of the Middle
Ages, by merging the remains of the old mermaids and centaurs show its heterogeneous membership,
in which the human figure is attached to the rarest forms of the fantastic zoology, and religion,
and heraldry, invented by drunk sculptors. Sort are on the walls coats of bright inks on sumptuous
tombs, in which sleep the sleep of marble archbishops and constables, princes and warriors, wielding
swords or staffs. Dogs and lions that support your feet, seem to pay rapt attention to every
rumor in the temple sounds. Shines in the bottom of the altar rich stew, resembling huge ember curd
with tiny gold angels and cherubs that flutter burning in the bosom of that cloud glow, as
if the combustion give them life. Graves, bearded saints, aligned with composure own celestial
circles appear in the center of the great apocalypse gilded wood
finishing machine so portentous a colossal Christ, whose arms, which
opening made by the body aches, it seems they are going to strengthen
in supreme embrace all the human lineage.

Prayers feel faint and confused, not interrupted by a pause, as if the atmosphere Inside the building,
hit a vibration inherent to its physical essence, a modular endless monologue. Everything
is quiet and respect. The clarity, shadows, sculptural forms, the elegance of line, the hidden
sound that is produced by the oscillation believe architectural mass, the sound, which recalls
the breath of some mysterious spirit, who lives in the large cavities of stone, the variety of
objects, the majesty of the tombs, the idealism of the effects of light, this causes stupor
and recollection. You think of God and tries to measure the immensity of the idea that existence
has given to so beautiful set, feel the greatest admiration for the
times we had faith, heart and art to express his strong belief inexhaustible
symbols ....

Stood the author declined in ecstasy contemplating on
his mind these beauties of art and faith, when a noise of steps first,
the unusual appearance of a man later was brought abruptly to reality,
making stare at the pages of article background that lay forgotten
on the table.

Being in front of him was a monster, a monster. Aborrecíale in those moments that if he came to
give death, and he inspired more awe than if it were Satan himself.

The monster looked at the author in a way that made him tremble, saying words reached out which
terrified the unhappy, if they were anathema to the Church or sentence of inquisitors. Trembled
in his seat, and looked erizósele hair in anguish and bathed in cold sweat the broken lines articulejo
incorrect.

II

That monster, or in other words, you little barbarian, came covered with sweat, as if had a long
career and precipitous, and the same face that his tattered, filthy clothes seemed tinged with
a slight dark varnish. The ink flowed from his pores. Differed of a coal soot that his was
more consistent, as if from the inside out. Entirely equal to a Cyclops, if he had two eyes, was
just one of the most powerful levers modern civilization, he had received from Providence the
high mission of moving the handle of a printing press, giving birth every day millions upon
millions of words. Living most of the day in the basement where the civilizing machine works, that
man was found with her was part of its mechanism, and the ingenious frame, but inert, pure
work of mathematics, became the impetus to be smart when moving monster wheels, shafts and cylinders
as being motivated by hidden bodies life. Both were enthusiastic, were confused, she convulsed
and rhythmic creaking speed; him, breathless and full of sweat, curves and more curves describing
his arm, she getting the paper to throw away after having spread on the surface world of ideas,
and he singing a song to make your job more bearable. Hours and hours passed in this way: the
machine, imitation of nature, playing in millions of copies same type and the same way, man,
determining the driving force, similar to breath of life in higher animals. When either be completed
in this manner, difficult supposing was disunited, and after admiring the stunning result
of the combination of two elements would not have been easy not say which one was smarter.

But
this man played still other equally important duties aimed to spread lights. What would the gross
human thought if that did not have the mission to fix printing ink, making it thicker or lighter
depending on the intensity you want to to print?

When copies of the newspapers had been brought to light by the machine; when it stopped and was
tired of grinding his delivery as if he screws ache, when the newborn specimens, wet, sticky and
smelly, were stacked on a large table, the folding monsters lovingly put their belts, giving
them the way that circulate throughout the roundness of the earth, taking the idea to the most
remote regions, giving life that exists, the carrying the mail, weighed, the franking tratábalos
with the love of a father and thought he was just so wonderful author.

Not limited to this office: he put posters, delighted in dressing of colorful corner of Madrid,
thus contributing to one of the great things our century, which is advertising. And if he had
a special art to make poultices to the streets, not the better their
ability to throw their backs huge reams of paper, back in inwardly
considered as food, feed or forage of the machine.

Well, I also say was irreplaceable for loading molds or forms of letters full of challenge fists
strongest men, and also assign him to fetch and carry original and testing mission filed on
time to meet the young author of whom I speak, and say that coming to the article, adding that
much needed to be stopped and hand over hand Mr. typesetters.

The plight of the author is not to paint, explained here and see the horror, indignation, trasudores
chills and the presence of the young man of the press gave him. It was necessary end of the article,
and before it was completed, it was necessary to follow, difficult undertaking colossal to
be the hapless writer's imagination to 100,000 miles of it. The unfortunate sent the boy to
return within a short time, he took the pen and picking up his ideas
best he could, after many scribbles on a drawing papelejo and staring
at the ceiling four times and the role many others, wrote the following:

"...
And as we know that public opinion is the only rule of politics: as
we know it Governments are not driven by public opinion to make their
own ruin ruin the country, we decided today to raise our voices to
indicate danger.

The main error Government, it must be said very high, is its commitment to destroy our institutions
traditional to perform a complete abolition of the past. Are the achievements of civilization
inconsistent with the story? Ah! The Government was trying to remove the remains of faith of our
parents, that strong faith that we see exact expression in the magnificent cathedrals of the Middle
Ages, which remain and survive to the amazement of generations. A petty age this! Ah! How to
magnify the mood to contemplate the wonderful works that raised religious feeling! "The spirit
that plays so should not be kept in society, through proactive action
of the governments responsible for ensuring great and timeless principles?

"

No sooner finished this paragraph, which seemed to our author Pearl, was interrupted and felt
a tremendous blow on the shoulder. He looked up and saw heaven! to an unwelcome friend who
had the bad habit of insinuating giving great accolades and pinching.

Although the journalist was quite intimate with the newcomer, at the time it was more unpleasant than
if he saw him as a sheriff responsible for arrest him. I looked away Item view, interrunpido again,
and waited patiently the words of his buddy.

III

Which was extremely heavy, and had a look so similar to the astonishment unchanged of the statues
that came to see him and hear him to mind the solemn speeches of the sphinxes or the wishes
of any oracle or fortune-teller.

Her voice was low and in a tone somewhat cavernous leaving no living in harmony with the yellow
of his face and long hair what we both sides of his head fell. It was also so gloomy in character
and in their habits, that there was reason to those who had been called undertaker.

With the unfortunate author who we have been dealing with, this man was old friendship: both
had run many adventures together and not separate scrambled sailed the bays of journalism to run
aground on the reefs of an office, where he soon throw ministerial change, and embarked again
in the press in search of social position. Comunicábanse misfortunes and pleasures, starting with
one another as brothers, and helped in their financial crisis, making mutual loans, and turning one against
the other large letters, payable ninety days after the Judgement.

The dismal, especially, was a great Minister of Finance, and solve all your troubles by a great
rush in the pocket the young writer who had, among other qualities, to despise the vain riches.
 God will have to reward. We'll live, yes, yes. Look,
look: the day I can leave, we're all in the field, the child of a snack. Isidora make us food, and
spend a day very Agrabad, celebrating our recovery.

- Go, go - said the miser with effusion, forgetting that I had previously thought about the
field to which Martin would soon .-- Yes, and we had fun, and give alms all the poor that we
go .... What a relief I feel in my heart since I've done this profit! ... No, I praise him
.... For you see, it occurs to me that even I can make another much
higher.

What? ... Let's see, D. Francisquito.

- Well, it occurred to me ... is no idea now that I have some time
.... It occurred to me Isidora maintains that if the papers of his
estate and inheritance Aransis house, we trying to get that ....»

Isidora looked between stunned and amazed "that" Again? "Was all he said.

"Yes, yes you are right D. Francisco - said the poor consumptive, which was good, giving with
a crazy drunken optimism .-- .... will try That can not be so.

- I have the suspicion - Torquemada said, - that those who participated in the action again not
been really ready, or were sold to the Marquesa old .... What we see, we have to see.

- I in quantitative release the cold.

Isidora, my clothes look the time to bring my clothes, I want to get up .... How I feel right now!
Makes me want to get to paint, D. Francisco. As the child get out of bed I want to make the portrait.

-
Thanks, thanks ... are very good ... all three are very good, right? Come a hug, and ask God
for me. I have to go, because I'm an uneasiness that I can not live.

- Nothing, nothing, that the child is better, who is saved - the artist repeated increasingly
fired .-- If I see him, if I can not go wrong. "

Isidora prepared to leave with some money his way to the home loan, but the poor Artist assailed
him cough and dyspnea with greater force and had to stay. D. Francisco said goodbye with the
most affectionate expressions knew and taking the checkered came out with them under layer. On
the stairs I was saying, 'Wow, it's good be good ... I feel in my an internal thing, a comfort
...! If Martin will be right! If I put that piece good of my life ... We run there. I do not trust,
do not trust. The spendthrift has illusions consumptive in the last degree. But who knows?
Insurance is deceived about himself, and succeeds in everything else.

Where he goes is the niche soon .... But the dying often have double vision, and may have seen the improvement
of Valentin ... I am running, running. Much hinder me those damn pictures! No tyrant will
say now that I'm Jewish and because traits these are very few in pound! ... I will say that I collect
in paints, as these notes, for sale, I would not half of what I gave. Is not it worth more die
because here, when an artist is alive, damn if anyone makes, and as they die of misery or tired,
put him in the clouds, we call genius and whatnot ... I think not never came to my house. How
far is, being so close! "

Rose from three in three steps the stairs of his house and opened the door for Aunt Roma, shooting
point-blank words: "Lord, the child appears to be a little calmer." D. hear Francisco and
drop pictures and hugged the old woman, was all one. The rag was crying, Worse and gave three
kisses on the forehead.

Then it was straight to the patient's room and looked from the door.

Rufina rushed at him and said: "It is from noon quieter ... See? It seems that the poor sleeping
angel. Who knows. May be saved. But I dare not to hope, lest they lose this afternoon.

Torquemada was beside himself in shock and anxiety.

He was the man with nerves strained, unable to sit still for a moment, as soon wanting to
lie to mourn as burst out laughing. Came and went in the dining room to the bedroom door, from
this to his office and the office to the cabinet. In one of these flips, Aunt called to Rome,
and messing with in the bedroom she made her sit down, and said:

-
Aunt Rome, do you believe that the child be saved?

- Lord shall be
as God wills, and nothing else.

I've asked him last night and this morning to the Virgen del Carmen,
with such devotion that can not be over, crying her eyes and drool.

Not me see how I have eyes?

- What do you ...?

- I have hope, sir. While it is not dead, there must be hope, though they say caregivers what they
say. If the Virgin commands, doctors are going to make daggers .... Other: Last night I fell
asleep praying, and I thought that the Virgin was down to delantito me, and I said yes with his
head ... Another: you have not prayed?

- Yes, woman, what questions do! I am going to tell you something
important.

You'll see. "

He opened a vargueño, whose mounted drawers keep papers and jewels
of great value had come into his hands as security for loan-sharking,
some were not even own, others, yes.

A while he was opening boxes, and to Aunt Roma, who had never seen anything like this, it
her eyes dazzled with the splendor of fish that came out of the box.

They were, she said, emerald nuts, throwing pale rays diamonds, rubies and pomegranate seeds,
and fine gold, gold for the best law, worth hundreds of thousands .... Torquemada, after open
and close cases, he found what he wanted: a huge pearl, the size
of a hazelnut the beautiful east, and holding it between your fingers,
showed it to the old.

"How about this Pearl, Aunt Rome?"

- Beautiful indeed. I do not understand.

Worth billions. "Nah, you Green?

- As this pearl - Torquemada said triumphantly, - is for Mrs. Virgen del Carmen. For it is, if
my son gets good. I'll show you, and get to know you intended, to tell him. If I tell you, sure
I do not believe it.

- D. Francisco (looking with deep shame), you are wrong with the gourd. Tell me, his life, why would
that requilorio the Virgen del Carmen?

- Here, to put it on her birthday, on July 16. So little is not nice this! It was a wedding
of her Excellency the Marquesa de Telleria. Believe it, as it is small.

- But, D. Francisco, you think that Virgin is going to concede ...! Paice bobo ... For that Piaz
anything!

- Look East. You can make a pin and put it on her chest, or the Child.

-
Lightning!

Valiente case makes the Virgin of pearls and pindonguerías! ... Believe me, sell it and give the
money to the poor.

For you see, not a bad idea - said the miser guarding the jewel .-- You know a lot. I will follow
your advice although, if I tell you the truth, that to give to the poor is to be nonsense,
because the give them spend it on liquor. But I'll fix it so that the money from the pearl
will not end up in the taverns ... And now I want to talk about something else. Put a lot of attention:
Do you remember when my daughter, walking one evening outside with
Quevedo and Morejón, came to rest over there, where you live, to the
Tejares of Aragon, and entered into your hut and came telling me in
horror, the poverty and saw there?

Do you remember that? Rufina contour your home is a den, an adobe made filth, old boards and
sheets of iron, the thatched roof and dirt, I said that neither you nor your grandchildren
you have bed and you sleep on a pile rags; that pigs and chickens criáis with garbage people
are there, and you animals. Yes: Rufina told me this, and I should have you no shame and you
had it. I should give you a bed, it has served us well, I loved my wife, I want to children,
and you come here so many years that we've ever stolen or the value of a sad nail. Well, if not
then I ever thought you succor, now. "

Saying this, he approached the bed and gave him a sharp slap with
both hands, as that is usually given to shake the mattresses to make
the beds.

"Aunt Roma, come here, play here. See what softness. See this wool mattress on top of a mattress
Spring? It is for you, for you, for you to rest your bones hard and I sprawled to indulge. "

The mean expected an explosion of gratitude for such a splendid gift, and already seemed to be
hearing the blessings of Rome aunt, when it came out a very different level. His cobwebbed
face dilated, and those with eye ulcers which opened at the site of eyes, came a glow of embarrassment
and fear, as he turned his back on the bed, heading toward the door.

"Remove, remove there - he said - go with what happens ... Mattresses give me that neither not
even fit through the door of my house ... And although they fit ... Lightning! A note that I tantismos
years lived hard as sleeping on a queen, and these would hit the softness not eyes. God forbid
that I should lie there. You know what I mean? I want to die in peace. When comes the ugly side
of me find it without a speck, but with the awareness and the jets
silver.

I do not want the mattress, that within them is your idea ... because here sleeps you, and at night,
when it gets to ponder the ideas they get through the fabric inside
and docks, and there will be like bugs when no cleaning.

Ray with men, and that I wanted to fit! ...

Drove the old lady in a graphic manner, expressed so well, with the moving of the hands and
the flexible fingers, how cheap bed is defiled their vile thoughts, Torquemada could hear
with real anger, ingratitude amazed, but she, firm and surly, despising
the gift continued: "Well go a jackpot that I liked, Holy God ...
Pa I sleep in it!

Or that he was silly, D. Francisco. So that leaves me at midnight all the worms of the ideas
from you, and my goal for the ears and eyes, turning crazy and giving
me a bad death ...!

Because, I know I ... I do not gives you .... there Inside, there, are all his sins, the war which
makes the poor, his stinginess, revenues that breast, and all the numbers that walk the Seseras
to affix money .... If I sleep there, at the hour of death I would leave on one side and the
other about toads with a big mouth, a nasty soap opera that I enroscarían in the body, a ugly
hell with mustache and bat ears, and I would catch with each other to take dragged into hell.
Go to the ray, and beware their mattresses, I have a bed bags made of cloth, with a blanket
over him, which is the glory of God .... And would like you .... That really is rich for a good sleep
....

- Well, gimme, gimme, Aunt Roma - said the miser with grief .-- If my child is saved, I agree him
to sleep in the rest of my life, and to eat no more than the crap you eat.

- In good times and sunny. You now want to put a fist in the sky. Ay, sir, to every its clothing
page! You will feel that as the donkey earrings. And all this is because They are in trouble,
but if the child gets good, you will be more bad to Holofernes. Already going to look old,
look the best day is put in front of the face bare, and it it does not give you the thymus.

- But where do you get you stamps, Surat - Torquemada said angrily, grabbing her by the neck
and shaking it - where do you get you that I am wrong, nor have I ever been?

- Let me, Let me go, I wiggle, I'm no tambourine. See that I am older than Jerusalem and I've
seen a lot of world and I know you since I wanted to marry with the Silvia. Well advised her
not to marry ... and announced the hunger that had happened. Now that is rich does not remember
when I started to win. I do remember, and that was me Paice yesterday when I had the beans to
the wretched of Silvia and all you had locked and the poor was decomposed,
trashijada and barking from hunger.

As if it's not for me, brought him some egg ocultis, had died a hundred times. Do you remember
when he got up you at midnight to register the kitchen to see if he found some stuffing, the Silvia
had hidden to eat alone? Do you remember when he found a piece of ham pastel sweet and half I
gave to me cas de la Marquesa, and I brought him to the Silvia Zampara for it herself, without
giving you not so well? Remember that the next day were you made a lion, and when I knocked me down
and I was kicking?

And I I was angry, and came back every day will bring something to
the Silvia.

As you were the one who was to purchase, we will not pilfer, and did not have a sad unhappy
blouse to wear. Was a martyr, D. Francisco, a martyr, and saving you money and giving it to
peseta hard a month! And meanwhile, did not eat more raw roe with dry bread and salad. Thanks I started
with you what I gave in rich houses, and one night, remember? suit boar bone that you were throwing
into the pot six consecutive days, until it was drier than his soul
Picture Rating.

I had no obligation to bring anything: it was for The Silvia, whom I took in her arms when Sena
was born out of Rufina, the passageway of the Dog. And what to you was furious that I keep those
things to it and are not given to you, lightning!

As if I were you required to fill the belly, dog, rather than dog .... And tell me now, do you ever
given a real value?

She did what I did could, to the sly, but you, the very capigorrón, what has given me? Crooked
nails, and the sweepings of the house. Come along and farce hippie
now!

... If you are brave to do.

- Look, all the old demons - Torquemada said angrily, - out of respect
to your age will not I bust a kick.

You're a liar, a devil, with his whole body full of lies and entanglements.

Now I give to discredit me after more than twenty years been eating
my bread. But if you know, pouch of poison, if what you said nobody
is going to believe: neither up nor down! The devil is with thee,
and thou art cursed among all the witches and scarecrows which is
in heaven ... I mean, in hell. "

IX

The man was beside himself,
delirious, and without casting to see the old was gone to good step
in the room, went on as before it was. "Scarecrow, mother the cobwebs,
if I catch you, you'll see .... And discredit me! "I went from one
part to another in the narrow bedroom, and from there to the cabinet,
as if he chased shadows nodding against the wall some so strong that
echoed throughout the house.

It was late afternoon, and darkness
reigned in and around the unhappy miser, when he heard clear and unlike
the cry of a peacock that Valentine was at the height of his high
fever. "And said it was better! ... Son of my soul .... We have sold,
we have been deceived. "

Rufina came crying into the room of the
beast, and said, 'Oh, Dad, what has been unwell; but what unwell!

-
That from Quevedo junk! - Shouted Torquemada taking a fist to his
mouth and bite Rabies .-- I'm going to get the bowels .... He has
killed us.

- Dad, by God, do not be like .... Do not rebel against
God's will .... If He has ....

- I do not rebel, daggers! I do not
rebel. You do not want, I do not want to give to my son because is
mine, blood of my blood and bone of my bones ....

- Resign yourself,
resign yourself, and have compliance - said the daughter, a sea of
​​tears.

- I can not give me the desire to resign. True that in times of Doña Silvia were both
at mass, by routine, but nothing more. Well after a widower, the few ideas of the Catechism Worse
than kept in his mind as useless papers or notes, shuffles with anyone farrago of Humanity, by
making an unholy mess.

In fact, none of these theologies long time occupied Magin's cheap, always attentive to the
reality of their business down. But the day came, rather, a night such ideas had to take possession
of his mind with some toughness, so right now I shall refer. My man came home one afternoon when
he fell from the month of February, evacuated thousand steps with varying success, running the
steps that would give the next day when his daughter, who opened the door, he said these words:
"Do not worry, Dad, it's nothing ... Valentin has been bad in school.

"

The uneasiness of the monster put to D. Francisco in great shock.

Which is announced could be negligible, and others. However, in the voice of Rufina had a tremor,
a veil, a strange ring that left cold and fail to Torquemada.

"I think it is not anything more - seems continued .-- Miss which gave a faint. The teacher
who was brought ... in her arms. "

Worst still stuck in the hall, unable to say anything or to take a step.

"I went to bed at once, and sent a message to Quevedo to come to escape."

D.

Francisco, out of his stupor as if he had been a whip, ran the fourth The boy, whom he saw in
the bed with her coat both seemed stifled. Had flushed face, sleepy eyes. His stillness was painful
slumber of quiet sleep. The father applied his hand to the brow of innocent monster, who blazed.

-
But that thing of Quevedillo .... So burst .... I do not know what you think .... Look better called
another doctor who knows more.

His daughter tried to calm him, but he refused to consolation. That son was not a son anyone,
and could not sick without altering the order of the universe. Not tested afflicted Food father,
did nothing but walk around the house, waiting for the damn doctor,
and without stop going to his room at the child, hence the dining
room, where he appeared before his eyes, squeezing the heart, waxed
Valentin chalked mathematical problems.

Persisted even painted by the morning, scribbling Torquemada did not understand, but almost I did
mourn as a sad music: the root sign, points above and below, and elsewhere in a network of lines,
forming star antics many peaks in ends.

At last, praise God, came the happy Quevedo, and D. Francisco threw the corresponding chillería,
for it treated him like son. Seen and examined the child, the doctor did not quite good face.
A Torquemada he could choke on a hair, when the little doctor, leaning against the wall and
putting his hands on his shoulders, said: "I do not like this, but have to wait till tomorrow
to see if it springs a rash.

The fever is quite high. Already I told you to be very careful with this phenomenon of the boy. Both
study, both namely brain development crazy! Things to do with Valentine is to put cowbell around
his neck, let go in the field in the middle of a herd, not to bring to Madrid that is well grown.
"

Torquemada hated the field and could not comprehend that he had nothing good. But he purpose
if the child was cured of a pasture to bring him to drink milk to grass and breathe air pure. The
pure air, Bailon said well what were very good thing. Ah! the bloody miasma were to blame
for what was happening. D. felt so angry Francisco, if you take a miasma at that time as part of
the shaft. Sibyl was the night to spend time with his friend, and see where we repeated the rattle of
Humanity, resembling the cleric Torquemada most enigmatic and lateral
than ever, longer arms, her face harder and fearful.

By staying only, the usurer did not lie down.

Since Quevedo Rufina and stayed to watch, he also would watch. Adjacent to the bedroom was the father
of the children, and it's bed Valentine who spent the night very restless, choked, throwing light
on their skin, sparkling eyes and stunned, speech unsafe unthreading ideas, like beads on a rosary
whose thread is broken.

IV

The next day was all shock and bitterness. Quevedo said the disease was inflammation of the
meninges, and that the boy was in danger of death. This is not the father said, but Bailon
for you to be prepared. Torquemada and he was locked up, and the conference was that little stick,
as D. Francisco, upset by pain, he called his friend a liar and fraud.

Restlessness, nervous restlessness, the ravings of stinging unlucky not can describe. Had to go
to several measures of its difficult job, and every moment returned home, panting, tongue hanging
out half span, the fungus was pushed back. Entered, gave out, come out again. He brought the
drugs, the pharmacy and told the whole history ... "A dizzy spell while in class, then fever,
horrible ... What are they doctors? "On the advice of the Quevedo, sent for one of the most
prominent, which described the case of acute meningitis.

The night of the second day Torquemada, dog-tired, was stuffed into one of the chairs of the room,
and there was an average liorita, turning a mischievous idea, hard ayi and with many corners,
that he had gotten into the brain. "I have failed to humanity, and this very so-and charged
me the credits back now .... No: for if God, or who Anyhow, I take my son, I am going to become
more evil, more dog ...! You'll see then which is fine cinnamon. For not missing anything .... Do
not play with me .... But no, what nonsense say! I removed it because I .... That they say
I have not done anybody any good, is a lie. Let me try it ... it is not enough to say. How about
whom so many have bailed? ... And that it "? For if humanity to have been with tales of me,
that if trouble, that if not bind ... I will try .... Hey, now I'm charging: if I have not
done any good, now I will, now, because for some it is said that it is never to late. Let's see:
what if I put now to pray, what would they say up there? Bailon seems to me that is wrong and
humanity should not be God, but the Virgin .... Of course, female, lady .... No, no, no ...
do not we look at the materialism of the word. Humanity is God, the Virgin and all saints together
.... Tente, man, Stand, you crazy .... Only clean sack having no good works, everything is like
saying, trash ... Oh God, what a shame, what shame ...! If I put good to my son, I do not know
what things do, but what things so magnificent and so ...! But who is the scoundrel who says
I have not targeted any good works?

Is that I want to lose, I want to take my son, who was born to teach all let the wise and very
small. And they envy me because I'm his father, because of these bones and this blood came aquela
and glory of the world .... Envy, but envy is what this slut Humanity! I mean, mankind, because
God is ... men, fellows, we who We are all very crooks, so what happens to us happens to us ....
We are well deserved ... well is we deserved. "

Then remembered the next day was Sunday and there was widespread receipts for collect the rents
of his house. After this operation to devote half an hour, rested several times, stretching
out in the living room couch. In the morning, between nine and ten, was to dominguera collections.
With your bad eating and sleeping and the most bitter grief that tore the soul, was the man
himself to an olive color. His gait was unsteady, and looks uncertain wandering, lost, sweeping
the ground as soon as shooting at heights. When the cobbler, who in his shop had dirty portal,
enter the home and saw noticed his face distorted and one walk drunk, shrieked as he dropped the
riveting hammer the tacks. The presence of Torquemada in the courtyard, which all Sunday was
occurring objectionable appearance that day was real panic, and while Some women ran to take
refuge in their respective chambers, and others, who must have bad payers, and who saw the face
that brought the beast, they went to the street. The collection for the quarter began with low,
and paid without question the mason and the two cigarette cases,
forward they are destroyed before the hated stamp of Don Francisco.

Something unusual and abnormal noticed it, then took the money, mechanically and without consideration
to trifle rusty, as other times, as if he had thought a hundred leagues of the event was important
doing, not you heard those rumblings of dog biter, and inspected the rooms looking for the broken
tile or piece of plaster fallen, to take the time to the tenant.

By the fourth of Rumaldo, laundress, widow, with her sick mother in a cot and three minor children
who were in the yard teaching the meat through the holes in clothing, Torquemada ordinance
dropped the grunt, and poor women, distraught and trembling voice, which if I had to confess
to the crime a black judge, dropped the phrase rules: 'D. Francisco,
is not currently possible.

Another day I will carry. "I can not give an idea of ​​the wonder of that woman and the two
neighbors who were present, when they saw the spat does not mean
that mouth no curse or heresy, when they heard him say with tearful
voice dull and the world: "No, daughter, if you do not say anything
... if you do not rush ... if not I have gone through reñirte head
... What we have to do, if you can not ...!»

- D. Francisco, is that
...-- murmured the other, thinking the beast was expressed with sarcasm
and that after the sarcasm would bite.

- No, my child, if I joke
... How have things to say?

To you is that no one the PASA that I am a man, as they say, tyrant ... Where do you find that
there is in pity me, or ... or charity? Instead of thanking me what I do for you, I calumniáis
... No, no: let us understand. You, Rumaldo, be quiet: I know you have needs that Times are bad
... When times are bad, girls, what we do but to help one to another?

Continued, and the principal gave a bad tenant paying, but much heart
to face the beast, and so I saw him coming, judging by the turn coming
more surly than ever, went to meet his harshness with these arrogant
expressions:

"Nah, you Listen, I do not come with stopping them.

You know that there is not. That is without work. Want you go on a road? Do not see the house
without furniture such as a hospital prestao? Where do you want procure it? ... Damn your
soul ...

- Who says to you, so very large, foul-mouthed and Boconó, I come to suffocate? A Tarascan see
if any of them claiming that I have no humanity.

Dare to tell me ....»

Eriarboló the stick, the symbol of his authority and his temper, and in the huddle that had formed
only see open mouths and eyes with astonishment.

"For to thee and to all say that I do not give a damn that I Repay today. Go! How I have to
say that to understand? ... With that being your husband out of work I was going to put the
noose around his neck? ... I know I'll pay when you can, right? Because what intention to pay,
you have it. Well then, what both sulk? ... Foolish, evil heads! (Efforts to produce a smile),
you believing me to me harder than rocks, and I dejándooslo believe, because it suited me, because
it suited me, of course, because God commands do not let our humanity ... fascist! Well, who are
all a very big combs .... Abur, you, do not suffocate. And do not think I do this to throw me
blessings. But recorded you do not choke, and so you see how good
I am ....»

He stopped and thought for a moment, putting his hand into his pocket and looking down.

"Nothing, nothing .... Stay with God. "

And to another. Claimed in the following three doors without any difficulty. 'D. Francis I you
put new stone on the Ornilla, here you can not cook ....»

In other circumstances, this claim would have been the beginning of a chillería tremendous
wit: "Put the Traspontina on the burner, scoundrel, and gun fire up Look at the guy manguitillas
.»--«, so poison him back rooms. "But that day everything was peace and harmony and gave Torquemada
As he demanded.

"Ay, D. Francisco! - Told another at 11, - has the syringes fifty real. So that they can gather,
we have not eaten more than two quarters of gallinejas and two liver with dry bread .... But not
to see the character of that face and not hear him, I'd stay with Paris tips.

- Look, that's an insult, an injustice, because if I put down other times not been for the
materialism of money, but because I like to see accomplished people ... to do not say .... There
should be dignity in everyone.

A faith that you have a good idea to me! ... Was I to consent that your children, these sheep
of God, they had hungry? ... Let, let the money .... Or rather, not to take it to snub: twenty-five
partámoslo and stay real .... And thou shalt give me another day .... Bribonazas, when you ought
to admit that I am to you as a father, I tachais of inhuman and whatnot!

No, I assure you that I respect them all humanity, which I believe,
I believe that, now and always will all the good that can and a little
more .... Hala!

"

Astonishment, confusion. Behind him came the gossipy group, gossiping like this: "In that convicted
him desavío has spent .... D. Francisco is not good for the coffee. See what face gallows has
brought. D. Francisco with humanity! Behold why this going out every night that star in the
sky with a tail. Is that the world is going to end. "

At number 16:

"But the daughter of my soul, so hussy, did you have to your bad girl and I had not said anything?
Why, what am I in the world? Frankly, that's an insult that you do not forgive, do not forgive.
You are an indecent and proof that you do not have a shred of sense,
you bet he'll never guess I'm going to do?

How much will not you guess? ... Then I will give you to put a pot .... Ea! Take it and say now
that I have no humanity. But you are so ungrateful, Sucks I shall put as dominoes, and may
even send me away a curse. Abur. "

In the quarter Casiana Sena, a neighbor ventured to say, "D. Francisco, us do not you give us ....
You will pass something. What the hell is in that head or in his heart of stone and mortar? "

He
left the troubled home into a chair, and removing the fungus is passed his hand over the yellow
bald forehead and greasy, saying only between sighs: "It is not tight, daggers, is not masonry!
"

Observing that his eyes were moist, and, looking down, and supported with both hands on the pole,
it carried all the weight on the body, rocking, urged him to she vented, but he should not
believe them worthy of being confident of their huge, heartbreaking penalty. Taking the money,
said a hollow voice: "If you did, Casiana, the same would be.

I repeat that I do not drown the poor ... as I too am poor .... Who say (getting with anxiety
and anger) that I am inhuman, lying more than the Gazette.

I'm human, I feel sorry the unfortunate, I help as I can, because
it sends us humanity, and good know all that and miss it to the Site,
you will pay sooner or later, and if you are good you shall have your
reward.

I swear by this image of the Virgin of Sorrows with Son died in the arms (pointing to a picture),
I swear that if I have similar charitable and well, not this mean that it is not, daggers! and if necessary
testing, testing be given. Come on, who did not believe ... as all get out with two hundred
thousand pairs of demons than me to be good enough for me .... Do not need anyone to give me
hype. Lousy for anything I want your gratitude .... I pass by the nose your blessings. "

That said stampede left. All looked at him down the stairs, and the patio below, and the portal
outside, making such gestures appeared to be the devil himself crossing.

V

He ran to his house, and against his habit (he was a man who commonly preferred despernarse
to spend a penny), took a car to get more soon. Gave heart to tell her that I would find good news,
the sick relief, Rufina smiling face when you open the door and mad impatience, it seemed
that the coach did not move, the horse was limping and that driver not quite shake the poor
animal sticks .... "Gee up, man. Jaco Damn! Wood it - shouted .-- It seems I have a great
hurry. "

Finally arrived, and panting up the stairs of his home, his hopes for the reasoned way: "Do
not go now saying it is for my sins, because all there ..." What a disappointment to see the
face of Rufina so sad, and to hear that the same thing, Dad, that rang in his ears like funeral
bell! He went up on tiptoe to the patient and examined. As the poor child he were at the time
dozing, Don Francisco could be observed with relative calm, because when delirious and wanted to throw
the bed, stirring around the frightened eyes, the father value was so painful to witness the
show and ran from the room trembling and terrified. He was a man who lacked the courage to
face penalties of this magnitude, no doubt because of moral deficiency, he was frightened,
shocked, and as responsible for so much misery and such pain. Esmeradísima insurance assistance
Rufina, no failure was the grieving father's bedside Valentine: the contrary, it was nuisance,
since if you attend, of fixed, in her confusion, mistaken medicines, giving drink to accelerate
its death. What I did was watch without break, often approaches the door of the bedroom and see
what was happening, the child's voice heard raving or complaining, but if the cries were very
plaintive and raving very strong, which was Torquemada was an instinctive desire to take to run and
hide their pain in the last corner of the world. That evening he was accompanied Bailon awhile,
the butcher down the tailor of principal and top photographer, striving all in comfort with
the phrases of regulation, but not to sustain hitting Torquemada Talk about a sad topic thanked
them with inattentive dryness. Everything is Bellows was returning sigh, walking stride, drinking
mouthfuls of water and give some punch ea wall. Tremendo that case! Many hopes vanished! ...
That flower in the world mowed and wilted! This was to go crazy. More natural would be the
universal derangement, the death of the prodigious child who had come to earth to illuminate
the beacon of his talent ... Nice things to God, Humanity, or whoever may be the very and
what he invented the world and put us in it! Because if you were to take to Valentine, why What
brought him here, giving it to him, good Torquemada, the privilege of breeding size prodigy? Nice
business to Providence, Humanity, or the Joint drawn, as I said Bailon! Taking one child,
a light of science, and let all the fools here! Did this common sense? "There was no reason
to rebel against the top, putting as clothing Easter and send them to ride? ... If Valentin was
dying, what the world was in darkness, ignorance. And for the father, who beat! Because let
us imagine all that would be D. Francisco when son, man, began to appear, to confound all the
wise men, to turn turtle science all! ... Torquemada would be in such a case the second person
of Humanity: and only for the glory of having given birth to the great mathematician, would be
a thing of standing on a throne. What a Valentine's engineer would if I lived! As he would do
about railways that would go from here to Beijing in five minutes, and balloons to sail through the
air, and ships debajito walk through water, and other things never seen or even dreamed. And
the planet was going to miss these bargains for a stupid statement of those who give and take life!
... Nothing, nothing, pure jealousy, envy. Up on the invisible recesses of the high heavens,
annoy someone had proposed to Torquemada. But ... but .... What if it was not envy, but punishment?
If I was willing to annihilate the mean and cruel, tyrannical landlord, the lender without a
womb?

Ah! when this idea came in turn, felt impulses Torquemada to run to the nearest wall and crashing
it. Reacted and soon became about himself. No, could not be punished because he was not bad,
and if it was, and would be amended. Was enviable dislike and ill will that had, as sovereign
as the author of eminence. Wanted truncated seize their future and the joy and immense fortune
of his later years .... Because his son, if he lived, was to earn lots of money, but a lot, and
hence the celestial intrigue. But it (I honestly thought) to give up profits, pecuniary son so let
him glory, glory! for business, he was satisfied with his own own .... The final height of his
exalted mind was to give to all the materialism of science of the child, provided they let him
glory.

When he was alone with him, Bailon said he had needed philosophy, and as Torquemada not understand
well the meaning and application of that word, the sibyl explane
your idea this way: "It resign, considering our smallness before these
major developments of the matter ... then, or vital substance.

We are atoms, Don Francisco, nothing more than Fools atoms. Respect the rules of the great All,
to which we belong, and to come penalties. That's what philosophy, or if you will, the religion to
breast to adversity. For if it were not so, we could not live. "Everything he accepted less
resigned Torquemada. No his soul was the source of such comfort could
go, and do not even understand. As the other, after having eaten well,
insist on those ideas, to D. Francis I want to give it spent a couple
of blows, destroying at one point the strongest profile to draw Michelangelo.
But looked upon him with terrifying eyes, and the other scared and
put a in their theologies. 

In early evening, Quevedo and the other
doctor spoke to Torquemada in terms disheartening. Had little or no
hope, but did not dare to say at all that they had lost and left open
the door to the repair of nature and at the mercy of God. It was horrible
night. Poor Valentine invisible fire burned. Plants grow in the
pool and the shores are lined with iris, primroses, periwinkles, pampas grass and, overtopping
these, weeping willows mingled with other lovely trees and shrubs. And then if
you should offer a moral lesson to his readers, have the boy exchange of overnight, by sheer
force of hunger and satiety, in a despicable creature, revealing and the bottom of junk in
the heart of every human being there. Introduce you to all the dark reality of life, bracts
in this ocean of mud, unable to float, and drowning choking, drowning .... But, yes, let you fall in
love with the lady hydrophobia opposite, because in that great dramatic device has to be based
around the fictional building. If I were in charge of developing the plan, I would do so ingenious,
never seen or novels or dramas.

- To see, to see? - Interrogate all, I enter for the sake of my literary thoughts friend, others
by curiosity and desire to see in all their horror that the intellectual cesspool atrocious ingenuity.

-
I would do next - continued: - I would be very desperate, not knowing
what to do to communicate and engage with the lady across the street.

Suppress that of the bird, which is unbearable. (The poet left betrayed, with a wave of indignation,
her outraged mother's love.) He thinks sometimes get a bandit to rob the lady, others would
think burning the house to get the lady in his arms. Meanwhile becomes thin, yellow, cadaverous-looking
a fool or sorcerer, the house is falling apart, and their misery is forced to eat rats. (Cantarranas
closed his eyes after looking at the sky in anguish.) One day he passes the trick lies a clever,
and for this I have to assume that lives, not in the house opposite but in the attic of the
house. Property so the scene is easy to understand his plan, which is inserted down the barrel
of the fire and sneak up to the main floor.

- What horror - the poet said, covering her face with her hands .--
It is going to smudge!

If only had to wash before being presented to her! ...

- No matter which soot - the novelist .-- I continued to paint a very beautiful lady, yes, but
with a contraction in the face to denote their ferocious instincts. He has had many lovers; is
capricious woman: one of these corrupted characters that abound in society, marking different degrees
of relaxation that comes at every stage the human species. Has had as I said, many querindangos,
and finally comes to falling in love with a black brought from Cuba by a banker, a wicked usurer,
a bandit in tails.

With this background, I can develop the dramatic situation, a horrible effect sublime. Let's see:
she is in her room, languidly sitting next to a veladorcillo, and think in the Apollo Jet, patent
leather object of his passion. Browse an album, and from time to time his face contracted with the
sinister grimace that makes it so terribly beautiful. Suddenly feel noise in the chimney: the lady
shakes, look and see that it comes leaping over of the logs on, a grimy man: in his delirium,
thinks that is black: domínanla the same time wonder and lust. The light turns off. Pataplum!
... How about to you this situation?

- I say that you are the devil
himself, or has some magic that will inspire charming admirable "I
said things confusing to the invention comely D. Marcos, which seemed
at the time top few among ancient and modern, have imagined the most
subtle traces of romance.

The poet was a bit crestfallen, not because it looked better if his
own or because, having by the offspring of D. detestable Mark, I find
fatal loss can limit get the most enlightened minds.

Not be amiss to say with the greatest reserve I'm here, to illustrate to my readers, that the poet
had, among others, a defect that is usually be commonplace among females that hold the pen
when the needle only serve ie, envy.

"Then see you now - continued D. Mark - how har I the denouement of this great event. The next
morning there was found the lady in her boudoir, and spent two pastes
of soap removed the soot from his face.

His anger is immense: it is angry, has discovered the deception, and in desperation da shrieks you
hear from the street. The young, meanwhile, tries to escape, seeing the anger she adores. Mandingo
wants to kill the stranger, who is zealous, but instead of going down the stairs, he is forced to rise
by the same barrel of the fireplace not be seen in certain counties that comes to the time
at home.

Fate makes it difficult to climb up the canyon, having been so easy
to fall, and while laboriously struggles to rise, slipped and fell
into the basement, and then, without knowing how, to a drain, ending
up in the gutter, where they drown like a rat.

The round will find the next day they took him in the garbage trucks to the cemetery. As we do not
have Morgue, must give effect to a good end. "

Thus spoke the realist D. Marcos. Cantarranas was more nervous than ever, and the poet took a squirt
of essences, to apply to the cartridge that had the nose: this unique
little squirt flacon was that he had seen in all French novels.

It's true that D. Marcos inspired deep disgust, so she called him a barrel of prose, no doubt
for revenge the other, which in a critical article once called basket of nonsense.

I do not know what to do in the presence of two faults as authorized and yet so contradictory. Appear
to hesitate between my hero giving the bird bread crumbs, or sticking
her head in sinks of the palace of his beloved.

I looked at the Grand Duke, and I saw him with his head down and hanging like ripe fig. The poet was in
a paroxysm of fury secret. How I could settle on a solution contrary to the ideas of Cantarranas,
when it was my Patrons, or to avail myself of one of its most beloved figures, big oak that
shaded swab to this modest literary field? And at the same time, how offend Don Marcos arts
as experienced in a novel? How to renounce his plan, which was the newest, most strange, the
boldest, most surprising of how many had conceived the human imagination? In such a critical
situation I was with the manuscript in the hands, mouth open, eyes surprised, uncertain and troubled
the chest Magin, when he came to me from my stupor and to cut the thread of my doubts of the
fourth voice of the characters that made up the jury. Until then had remained silent, in an
old armchair, whose mane of countless holes out: was there, sphinx-like, accentuated by the unique
expression of his face severe. I think now is the chance to describe to this character, certainly
more important four, and I shall do so.

IV

If forty years of tireless hard work, continuous service to the art,
to the letters to the youth, are enough to raise title to a man on
his contemporaries, None should be more top of the vulgar crowd D.
Severiano Carranza, known between the arcades Mastodontiano Flavonio
Rome.

It was almost academic, because whenever vacaba a chair is a candidate,
though he never wanted to choose.

His forte was erudition gleaned in all fields: history, poetry, fine arts, in philosophy, numismatics,
apparels. I remember his last work, that shook the world from pole to pole, to treat a serious
issue, namely, whether the Archpriest of Hita was not the custom or sock upside down, deciding
our author negative, to the great scandal and clamor of the Academies of Leipsic, Gottingen,
Edinburgh and Regensburg, which said that Carranza was a famous pitcher in daring soul to deny
a fact that was part of the treasure of mankind's beliefs. Why, and his dissertation on Erymantho
boar tusks, which was the cause of endless nibbled between the most famous scholars? I will not
say anything, because everything runs in the hands of the world, famous discourse on how to
combine des tees and Art in Metro Mayor, which will lift up the horns of the moon, if earlier,
to the glory of Spain and glorification of himself, had not written and given to the stamping
Oda never quite expensive to the invention of powder, which called this chemical Flaminea atmosphere.
This is his only work of fantasy. The others are all learned, because he lives consecrated to the
notes. As a critic, is not matched or the same Cantarranas, although there are biographers who
equate it to him, and there were some who said he excelled in many things. Suffice it to say
that Carranza had read As human feathers left, is worthy of note that every book that pass
through his memory left There is a small sediment or deposit, although not larger than a drop of
water.

There was no date that he did not know, nor name to ignore, or data that was unknown, no coincidence
that escapes his penetration and huge memory. It is true that this store pulled the cargo of
his criticism, which had more indigestible than savory because there is no old thing that will
bring up, or dig up that classical author at every step to take and bring such to the giants in
the day of Corpus. Writing was prolific: his style is composed of
the most crisp and curling phrases is given imagine.

Thereby polishing his prose, which looked like a hair with cosmetic and mandolin, can serve
mirror and his songs were such that they believe curled with tongs. Never repeated a word in a
single sheet of paper, for fear of redundancy and singsong. In some occasion, having spoken in an
article in ivory toothpick of a woman, was forced to repeat it by force of seeming vulgar syntax
and word stick, he called the ebony dagger that object. For this reason in her writings about
buzzwords their enemies, the rage of envy, called bizarre. Treat him pedantic was commonplace
among gaceterillos evil that always bother to great men fleas as the lion.

The person of the scholar Carranza was as remarkable as his works. It consisted of a destroncada
body not very equal on two legs, arms and shoulders cansadísimos small, embellished around the building
a monumental hat, under which was often seen on clear days, the head more archaeological ever.
After the tie, which affected some misalignment, which most stood out was the mouth, where
once dwelt all graces, and now there was or a tooth, and the nose would have been the most unlikely
of his face if not occupy First a bulky glasses after which the keen eye and acute critic flashed.

These
eyes were those who looked at me sternly that troubled me, this face
was the voice that as solemn as a waterfall, took the floor and said:

"Oh
imaginations loss of youth!

Baseness of feelings Oh! Oh corruption century! Oh baseness of ideas! Oh loss of taste! Oh annihilation
of the classic rules! Is there more formidable machine of nonsense that you wrote and no more
heap of nonsense that that lady and that gentleman have said? What times we live? What republic
have? Go, lady, to sew your socks and to skim the pot, and You D. Marcos, to care for their children
if they ha, and you, young man, to learn a trade, most account you have any occupation, even
if unpleasant, vile, that writing books. Why, Is the field of letters grass pasture for all
kinds of pecus, or garden frondosísimo where only the finest mills can find pleasures and amenities?
Go cooks thought, to flavor soups vulgar and not tasty, it's not
so rude as to hands to prepare the delicacies served at the banquet
of the gods.

"

Semiramis when you appear as the shadow of reproach him Nino for his tricks, as Hamlet when he
hears the ghost of his father by revealing the crimes of the Sena Gertrude; as Moses when
he sees the Lord in the burning bush, so we were all: silent, cold, petrified with fear. The
prayer of the man, taken by an oracle, his unusual appearance, his stern look and the echo
of his shrill little voice, we instilled such fear, which had to elapse good amount of time
before I take breath, and draw your flacon poet, and closed mouth the great Duke.

Finally we recovered from the terror, and Carranza, noting the good effect his words had produced,
lashed back against us, and thereby took umbrage with D. Mark, I think not stay healthy bone.
The poet was bewildered and did nothing to disguise fanning anger, while Cantarranas seemed bent
on strength of its natural goodness, to be from the tremendous critical.

"And for this I have called! - He said .-- The fault is who, leaving serious occupations and
the delicious company of the Muses, to attend these lectures, where he made his lungs lay the
with so much nonsense. "

Then I, with a daring challenge that now scares me the wrath of Aristarchus, I said

"But since I had the audacity to bring you here, oh man famous, I would not be allowed ask the greatest
favor that could make me, helping with their lights to improve this monstrosity my bad that star
comes to the world?

- Yes, I will do so gladly - replied the wise man suddenly sliced
smooth and mellow land .-- I am going to tell you how I develop my
mind, but have to promise that I will not be interrupted by applause
or other similar event.

Begin, Therefore, stating that I would place the action of my work in ancient times, picturesque
times and interesting, when there was no street lighting, and yes many rounds and a large number
of brackets; when the leading men opened a palabrilla carcass, and
the ladies went to mantle these streets, followed by Celestine and
props, when kept with seven keys honor, but if it means not to lose
in a heartbeat.

I do not know how there are mills so blunt that novel with things
and people in the present era, where there are no elements literary,
as all learned men have tested it fully.

The devil would not occur painting adventures on a cobbled street with gas lanterns. For God and
the saints, is it nothing more ridiculous than a loving dialogue, which appears at every moment
the word you made to ask what the weather, prices of meat, etc .?...
Well, I be contained my characters in the seventeenth century, and
open the scene with great noise of knives and many pardieces and vote
to heal, then the comings and goings of constables, and, finally,
the cracked voice an old pimp who comes with his lantern to recognize
the face of the dead.

"

We all watched, amazed at the colorful table in no time had traced that incomparable master.

"The poor young man who has put you in the attic, where it is very retebién, will be contained I was
a provincial gentleman, broke and with lousy star. Has come to Madrid in search of fortune,
and requests that make you captain of Thirds, which goes to the mint in Mecca, unable to get
anything but contempt. The lady in front is of the highest nobility, daughter of a huntsman of the
Royal Family, or anything like that, which gives it entry in the Palace, and is well conquest
of Kings, Princes and infants. Will put in some garlic rapabarbas sly servant or third party to do,
because novel or comedy without rapist charlatan and intriguing, pot without bacon is not Augustinian
sermon. And how could I paint the scenes of taverns, the knife, the quarrels that always runs as
Master or Master Blas Pedrillo! Why, and the love scenes? What discretion, what tenderness, what
metaphorical richness I had to put there!
 

I stopped coming here. Since I read it on the stains, I noticed some murmurs bad content. Were
in crescendo, till it came to that passage, an exclamation horror took my word and made me
stop reading.

Cantarranas was nervous, the poet and fanned herself with rage, blind anger, and made a basilisk.
I do not know if I said that one of the four people in my audience,
was a poet.

I think when the time to describe this illustrious female.

II

Which passed through literate very learned and very famous all over the world, having written
several volumes of poetry, and scrawled in all albums madrigals of humanity. Fulfilling certain
physiognomic mysterious law, she was blonde like all poets, and obeying the same fate, high
and bony. The adorned a very pointed and sharp nose and a mouth made to order for breathe
through it, because their bodies were not breathing the easiest and
most expeditious.

I do not know What were his works, always bearing the stamp of his nose, a vision that chased
me in dreams several nights, and the same effect of causing me nightmares as long as two reefs little
vegetation, that temple again and hung. As the suit, betrayed, was easy to assume his body
and as thin, and poor little amojamado Safos than is customary.
She was a widow, married and single. Let us explain. She was always
heard that was a widow, all the had as married, and was actually married.
He once lived in a place with a journalist provincial, and there spent
by husbands. The unhappy consort was a martyr. She calls Columns legs
of the social order, which was nothing but graceful figure of speech,
which covered his mortal aversion to sewing pants. Oh
terribile time!

The unfortunate writer arose from his seat, threw paper and pens,
without caring for those fatal men continue or not managers of public
affairs.

The two set the view with eager curiosity in a group down the street was composed three persons,
namely, an old woman with an extremely stiff and pompous air indicating his adoration of all
things traditional and venerable, a young woman, whose beauty no enough data were taken from
the balcony, although it was not difficult to appreciate the slenderness of her body, her graceful
walk and dress, where elegance and modesty had achieved twin, and
finally, a lad, whose face was not easy to distinguish, with only
I saw some pins, their little crumb of lenses and a nose.

The writer was desperate to scream, to throw the object to find more hand over the innocent couple crossing
the street. Stood pale when she noticed that they spoke with a confidence similar to the privacy,
and even he seemed to hear some tender and moving phrases. He clenched his fists and looked
for frogs and snakes that mouth, away from the balcony by no longer attend a show you crazy. He
turned his eyes met with the look of raw print, which still in the middle of the room, uglier,
ugliest and sinister than ever, claimed the nefarious pages. Nothing, nothing, to finish the article!
Blind with rage, pale as death, trembling, and lost eyes, sat down, took pen and splashed right
and left large splotches of ink, peppering the paper the peck of
the pen, reel off the following:

"Yes: you have to remove the management
of public affairs fatal to those men who have usurped power in a way
never seen before in the annals of ambition to such immoral men, which
have spread to all levels of government their vicious habits, to those
men to mock the country with their makeshift fortunes.

Everyone sees with indignation abuse, the audacity, the cynicism of such men, and we participate
in that patriotic indignation. Oh! can not contain us.
 

No doubt I got the answer, and asked a more strict. Diómela in these terms:

- It would be wrong in eya puestus the pensaris of unu ... Esu and
that!

... But mine will Jacia quite another par.

The Pitu, I put the casu, it is pleitu difirente.

- So Pete ... And she, as repolluda and so guapote, do you share?

-
Esu is what I do not know ... nor can he know what tampocu.

- It
is very possible ... but before you put a blemish on the good maid.

-
A flawless!

... And what was eya?

- No clear painted it, but gave it to understand.

After pondering for a good thing the girl, adding "and that that
..." as he says, "is not gold that glitters."

- What I would say,
if casu, by his father ... or his mother.

- And what are his father
or his mother to cross?

- What do I know?

Stories.

- So stories ... Who is the father?

- Nah, you Echeli a galgu.

-
Anda, dark!

And the mother?

- Now you panicle!

And does he have at home!

- Who, man?

- Nah, you.

- Me?

- Nah,
you mesmu ... What for the ojus démontrer any face, if not see what's
pa delanti of eyus?

- Just say a thousand devils take you: who is
the mother of Tona?

- Pos Facia.

- Facia! - Exclaimed in amazement
-.

But Facia married?

- At vistu - I answered the mozallón with too
much phlegm.

- Who? - He inquired.

- That's the story - he pointed
at the ground he answered back with the forefinger of his right hand,
without looking or slow the pace.

- Well, Tell it to me then - I
said then, sitting astride the peak of a overhanging rock beside the
trail, not so much more comfortable hearing what I recount Chisco,
as resting from the fatigue that was giving me that our continued
up the slope the bitter mountain.

We had won the first third of its height, and were already within the terms of the large green that
is visible from the house "of my major", ie the "Prao-Council which,
since there seemed endless, immense, in the oblique direction the
path we had.

Chisco, when he noticed that I had sat down, stopped, turned toward
me, smiled his way to see me so well accommodated, and finally, back
slowly.

- Tell me why - I said as he stopped next to me - but with
all his hair and signals.

To instill good spirits gave him a drink of my Fraser, who was the
best candy for him, and a cigar of the largest in my bag.

He drank and savored the comforting spirits, licking taste, and began
after a tinderbox, as I gazed at the valley bird's eye view of Tablanca,
with its houses climbing up behind the harvest of my uncle, and perched
alone overhead, as if he had stopped there to encourage them to voice
and some jokes Don Celso, and, finally, leaning back against the ground
and stirrups with sandals on the roughness of the road, told me the
following, which I translate, slightly more than in substance, vulgar
language, with real feeling, because I can not, for lack of memory
and always, play to the letter that picturesque language, which exceeded
local flavor by far in interest, the matter reported.

Facia was, in effect, a helpless orphan when my uncle picked her up at home. Educóse and grew
in it, it became a big girl, because he who inherit, as well as to be honest and discreet and good-looking,
and honestly, and discreetly, and even very gratefully passed, and rightly so, in the village
when it was presented as the rain clouds, a lover, a Tablanca baratijero that shocked not only
by the wonders never seen there, the shop that stood in a fair valley, but by the charm of its
peak by "Majura" in your face and the direction of their size. Like flies came to his gleaming
tenducho the poor fool of the fair, and fell like flies in honey and flattery of their weights,
deceiver leaving the bait down to the last penny of savings for very
different purposes.

For women, especially, was the charlatan an irresistible hook, and
for good girls, in particular, a "one" that reckless.

So good was the indino in that endeavor, which had just moved the tenducho fair to the people
and opened in a makeshift shed next to the church. To believe by his word, he was a drug dealer by necessity,
but luxury. He liked to run the world and see everything and to do as they please, as it was
rich for her house and had plenty of money, ran that way, buying jewelry 'to all cost 'in the
big cities of the earth, to hand them over to the poor men and good girls of the hamlet for
a piece of bread.
 

Works by the same author

Contribution l'etude du Genou the Périarthrite
(séreuse bourse affections of the patte d'oie) .-- Paris, 1886.

The Sanskrit language in Tagalog. Paris, 1887.

Contribution to the study of ancient Filipino alphabet. 

As the footman received orders Pacorrito, who was a heroic and bold resolutions, conceived the idea
of ​​hanging at the rear of the car. He did so, with the agility that quadrumane rogues use when
they want to ride in a carriage from one end to another of the town.

Lengthening the snout to the right, hovering by the door he saw one of the arms lady sacrificed to
the base metal. That stiff arm and fist pink that strong language speaking Crumb to the imagination,
that amid the clatter of wheels heard these words: - Save me Pacorrito
me, save me!

VI

In the porch of the mansion, where he stopped the car, stopped the rogue illusions, because
a servant told him that if staining the floor with his muddy feet, would break the spine. Faced
with this overwhelming reason, Crumb retired, filled the heart of a burning desire for revenge.

His
fiery temperament impelled him to go forward, throwing himself into the arms of fortune and
in the darkness of the unexpected. His soul was adapted to the noisy
and dramatic adventures.

What did the very rascal? Then confer with those who were going to
pick up trash at the house where his beloved was in bondage, and by
this means, which may not be poetic, but it reveals sharpness of wit,
and a heart like the top of a pine Crumbs entered the palace.

How
the heart was beating when he came up and penetrated in the kitchen!