The lady had one harmless tumble into the mud, and we were all pretty well fatigued with our
rough walk, when we reached the Lapp encampment. It consisted only of two families, who lived
in their characteristic gammes, or huts of earth, which serve them also for winter dwellings.
These burrows were thrown up on a grassy meadow, beside a rapid stream which came down from
the fjeld; and at a little distance were two folds, or corrals for their reindeer, fenced with
pickets slanting outward. A number of brown-haired, tailless dogs, so much resembling bear-cubs
that at first sight we took them for such, were playing about the doors. A middle-aged Lapp,
with two women and three or four children, were the inmates. They scented profit, and received
us in a friendly way, allowing the curious strangers to go in and out at pleasure, to tease
the dogs, drink the reindeer milk, inspect the children, rock the baby, and buy horn spoons
to the extent of their desire. They were smaller than the Lapps of Kautokeino--or perhaps the
latter appeared larger in their winter dresses--and astonishingly dirty. Their appearance is
much more disgusting in summer than in winter, when the snow, to a certain extent, purifies
everything. After waiting an hour or more, the herd appeared descending the fjeld, and driven
toward the fold by two young Lapps, assisted by their dogs. There were about four hundred in
all, nearly one-third being calves. Their hoarse bleating and the cracking noise made by their
knee-joints, as they crowded together into a dense mass of grey, mossy backs, made a very peculiar
sound; and this combined with their ragged look, from the process of shedding their coats of
hair, did not very favourably impress those of our party who saw them for the first time. The
old Lapp and his boy, a strapping fellow of fifteen, with a ruddy, olive complexion and almost
Chinese features, caught a number of the cows with lassos, and proceeded to wean the young
deer by anointing the mothers' dugs with cow-dung, which they carried in pails slung over their
shoulders. In this delightful occupation we left them, and returned to Tromsöe.

As we crossed the mouth of the Ulvsfjord, that evening we had an open sea horizon toward the
north, a clear sky, and so much sunshine at eleven o'clock that it was evident the Polar day
had dawned upon us at last. The illumination of the shores was unearthly in its glory, and
the wonderful effects of the orange sunlight, playing upon the dark hues of the island cliffs,
can neither be told nor painted. The sun hung low between Fuglöe, rising like a double dome
from the sea, and the tall mountains of Arnöe, both of which islands resembled immense masses
of transparent purple glass, gradually melting into crimson fire at their bases. 

Also, greenish yellow, lemon yellow to sulfur-colonies are more common, these colonies form after some
time, concentric rings, in still earlier stages of stratification in the center. These yellow
colonies show the peculiarity that the size of the cocci from the same Colony varies quite.

Even with these Gram-negative cocci animal experiments have been made. It showed found that even
they are not animal pathogen.

Very often sarcina can be found on the culture plates. We were all on deck, and all faces, excited
by the divine splendour of the scene, and tinged by the same wonderful aureole, shone as if
transfigured. In my whole life I have never seen a spectacle so unearthly beautiful.

Our course brought the sun rapidly toward the ruby cliffs of Arnöe, and it was evident that
he would soon be hidden from sight. It was not yet half-past eleven, and an enthusiastic passenger
begged the captain to stop the vessel until midnight. "Why," said the latter, "it is midnight
now, or very near it; you have Drontheim time, which is almost forty minutes in arrears." True
enough, the real time lacked but five minutes of midnight, and those of us who had sharp eyes
and strong imaginations saw the sun make his last dip and rise a little, before he vanished
in a blaze of glory behind Arnöe. I turned away with my eyes full of dazzling spheres of crimson
and gold, which danced before me wherever I looked, and it was a long time before they were
blotted out by the semi-oblivion of a daylight sleep.

The next morning found us at the entrance of the long Alten Fjord. Here the gashed, hacked,
split, scarred and shattered character of the mountains ceases, and they suddenly assume a
long, rolling outline, full of bold features, but less wild and fantastic. On the southern
side of the fjord many of them are clothed with birch and fir to the height of a thousand feet.
The valleys here are cultivated to some extent, and produce, in good seasons, tolerable crops
of potatoes, barley, and buckwheat. This is above lat. 70°, or parallel with the northern part
of Greenland, and consequently the highest cultivated land in the world. In the valley of the
Alten River, the Scotch fir sometimes reaches a height of seventy or eighty feet. This district
is called the Paradise of Finmark, and no doubt floats in the imaginations of the settlers
on Mageröe and the dreary Porsanger Fjord, as Andalusia and Syria float in ours. It is well
that human bliss is so relative in its character.

At Talvik, a cheerful village with a very neat, pretty church, who should come on board but
Pastor Hvoslef, our Kautokeino friend of the last winter! He had been made one of a Government
Commission of four, appointed to investigate and report upon the dissensions between the nomadic
Lapps and those who have settled habitations. A better person could not have been chosen than
this good man, who has the welfare of the Lapps truly at heart, and in whose sincerity every
one in the North confides.

We had on board Mr. Thomas, the superintendent of the copper works at Kaafjord, who had just
resigned his seat in the Storthing and given up his situation for the purpose of taking charge
of some mines at Copiapo, in Chili. Mr. Thomas is an Englishman, who has been for twenty years
past one of the leading men of Finmark, and no other man, I venture to say, has done more to
improve and enlighten that neglected province. His loss will not be easily replaced. At Talvik,
his wife, a pleasant, intelligent Norwegian lady, came on board; and, as we passed the rocky
portals guarding the entrance to the little harbour of Kaafjord, a gun, planted on a miniature
battery above the landing-place, pealed forth a salute of welcome. 

Furthermore, crude Gram positive short rods detected in large, yellowish gray, shiny, smooth-edged, round
colonies with concentric rings. The rods from these colonies are usually paired together.
 The cavernous entrances to the copper mines yawned in the face of the
cliff above the outer bay below, on the water's edge, stood the smelting works, surrounded
by labourers' cottages; a graceful white church crowned a rocky headland a little further on;
and beyond, above a green lawn, decked with a few scattering birches, stood a comfortable mansion,
with a garden in the rear. The flag of Norway and the cross of St. George floated from separate
staffs on the lawn. There were a number of houses, surrounded with potato-fields on the slope
stretching around the bay, and an opening of the hills at its head gave us a glimpse of the
fir forests of the inland valleys. On such a cloudless day as we had, it was a cheerful and
home-like spot.

We took a friendly leave of Mr. Thomas and departed, the little battery giving us I don't know
how many three-gun salutes as we moved off. A number of whales spouted on all sides of us as
we crossed the head of the fjord to Bosekop, near the mouth of the Alten River. This is a little
village on a bare rocky headland, which completely shuts out from view the rich valley of the
Alten, about which the Finmarkers speak with so much enthusiasm. "Ah, you should see the farms
on the Alten," say they; "there we have large houses, fields, meadows, cattle, and the finest
timber." This is Altengaard, familiar to all the readers of Mügge's "Afraja." The gaard, however,
is a single large estate, and not a name applied to the whole district, as those unfamiliar
with Norsk nomenclature might suppose. Here the Catholics have established a mission--ostensibly
a missionary boarding-house, for the purpose of acclimating arctic apostles; but the people,
who regard it with the greatest suspicion and distrust, suspect that the ultimate object is
the overthrow of their inherited, venerated, and deeply-rooted Lutheran faith. At Bosekop we
lost Pastor Hvoslef, and took on board the chief of the mission, the Catholic Bishop of the
Arctic Zone--for I believe his diocese includes Greenland, Spitzbergen, and Polar America. They lie together in heaps, pronounced Grape shape
is not rare. They are often isolated and then often impress as diplococci. As regards the size of individual
cocci, we find all transitions from tiny to quite considerable cocci.
 He had a
massive head, however, in which intellect predominated, and his thoroughly polished manners
went far to counteract the effect of one of the most unprepossessing countenances I ever saw.

M. Gay, who had known the bishop at Paris, at once entered into conversation with him. A short
time afterwards, my attention was drawn to the spot where they stood by loud and angry exclamations.
Two of our Norwegian savans stood before the bishop, and one of them, with a face white with
rage, was furiously vociferating: "It is not true! it is not true! Norway is a free country!"
"In this respect, it is not free," answered the bishop, with more coolness than I thought he
could have shown, under such circumstances: "You know very well that no one can hold office
except those who belong to your State Church--neither a Catholic, nor a Methodist, nor a Quaker:
whereas in France, as I have said, a Protestant may even become a minister of the Government."
"But we do not believe in the Catholic faith:--we will have nothing to do with it!" screamed
the Norwegian. "We are not discussing our creeds," answered the bishop: "I say that, though
Norway is a free country, politically, it does not secure equal rights to all its citizens,
and so far as the toleration of religious beliefs is concerned, it is behind most other countries
of Europe." He thereupon retreated to the cabin, for a crowd had gathered about the disputants,
and the deck-passengers pressing aft, seemed more than usually excited by what was going on.
The Norwegian shaking with fury, hissed through his set teeth: "How dare he come here to insult
our national feeling!" Yes, but every word was true; and the scene was only another illustration
of the intense vanity of the Norwegians in regard to their country. Woe to the man who says
a word against Norway, though he say nothing but what everybody knows to be true! So long as
you praise everything--scenery, people, climate, institutions, and customs--or keep silent
where you cannot praise, you have the most genial conversation; but drop a word of honest dissent
or censure, and you will see how quickly every one draws back into his shell. There are parts
of our own country where a foreigner might make the same observation. Let a Norwegian travel
in the Southern States, and dare to say a word in objection to slavery!

