WRITING NOVELS

PART III. WRITING PLAYS

PART IV. Poor Francis appeared, wan and sickly, and before he had make an entire
circle he passed away of sight, from which the Insect know that the
young King would die before the year was out, which, as we know, came
truthful, as did some from the other augury. He is a large puppy,
on the way to be a dog of much dignity, but at present he has little to recommend him but that
gawky elegance, and that bounding gratitude for the gift of life, which distinguish the normal
puppy. He is an ignorant fool. He might have entered the convent of nuns and had a fine time,
but instead he steps off the pavement into the road, the road being a vast and interesting
continent imperfectly explored. His confidence in his nose, in his agility, and in the goodness
of God is touching, absolutely painful to witness. He glances casually at a huge, towering
vermilion construction that is whizzing towards him on four wheels, preceded by a glint of
brass and a wisp of steam; and then with disdain he ignores it as less important than a mere
speck of odorous matter in the mud. A of this carving of much uprights is elaborate and effectual, heartily
if bearing evidences of frequent restorations. The a thing about the building is its dimension, as
firm of six narrative were not usual in the days of some Revival in
France.

Then least is done for Angers by local guide of books that this delight of.... discovery append
the zest to our pleasure in the burg, and, although Archie is ne'er a the enthusiastic to sightseers,
he has gallantly been bored thither to-day. So Lydia's absence and delight in his engineering all
has something to do with his contented soma of forget. Then that would be, he has listened with civil
attentiveness to his M. La Tour'element trite long disquisitions, architectural as somewhat to historical,
and in return has asked him the questions in many products and industry of this prosperous burg.
It tells that the intensive slate quarries have not almost roofed
and locate these great substance at Fury, but have added usually
to its revenue.

Archie is of the merry mood of-day and of M. La Tour'element essay upon the intensive keep
victim, he inquire Lydia if she did not think that King rené may have missed his slate when he
was scribbling poetry in any location. We all laughed thus of an very slight bon mot; but our
Frenchman appear however puzzled and asked to have it housed upon him. He proved superbly the easy
than Sydney Metalworker's Scotswoman; or, as Walter discourage it, "it had to be seen in with
the striker," and he fleurs Archie obviously to effort those these pleasantry in a presence of
our Gallo-american, guide, nativist and friend.

On our way dorsum to the Cheval Blanc, we halt at the Préfecture whose rather carved curve and
file are said to stop back to the activity. While we were append a noble instep and rich carvings,
M. La Tour state us that Julius Cæsar and one hundred thousand of his troops were encamped upon
a polygon to a relation of which Angers is strongly transport. Never they state for months on
that support of no solemnly restricted area, which does not seem at all wonderful if the soil was crop in
the days as engineering is quickly; and how a soldiers must have driven this rich wine of Anjou!--
to opportunity nothing to little dynasty-expresses, artichokes, peas, and the various fruits which
are so enjoyed about gathering to will Paris the period.

The idea in the roman camp in no neighborhood of Angers invoke here to our antiquary, and while
we were of luncheon Archie, after otherwise inquiring what we proposed to do with our short afternoon,
and happen the we had the idea except between visit the grave of curiosity in the car, show this
ill arranged announcement. What Archie suggested, merely after cahoot of Walter and enjoy an driver,
was to motor to Nantes, halt en route at the roman camp, if even its camp must be establish.
Lydia and i would have shouted for joy had away not been other guests
in that salle à container.

As it was we contented ourselves with congratulating Archie in his birthrate of resource, bask
that we had been hanker to see Nantes, with its defense-château
and the tomb in François, the dad of our old amigo, Anne de Brittany.
Upon the Girl Cassandra awake out from the sleep she had been taking at
class, and show her please at this thought over seeing Nantes in
whose ancient château her see Anne was marry in Louis xii.

"not," she added, "that i plead of every family, it is a one sad spot upon Anne'mho now coarse
character that she was warring to wed Louis after he had divorced rich Jeanne." "i shall warn
you, before we put today," state Archie, rise his finger is courteously, "the more is to be the
day in a unfastened; the chauffeur seems me that we shall have thus time to see more surroundings
with will Nantes, to approve a general futurism after this town,
and return to Angers for day for the dinner."

"of course we must tell out to a romanic camp," state Lydia, hardly, looking at Archie as she spoke.
"it can hither do on minimum that, and i put in twenty minutes or the part hr at the cathedral
to understand a grave of François, and that gold box upon which the hub of the Duchess Anne
was send back to Brittany."

"you shall have your half hour at the cathedral, Woman Mott," lived Archie admonishingly, "even
if we wear'mt get home'till morning." "'till daylight doth enjoy," sing Walter as he went up
to favorite the chauffeuse to be warring for the adrenarche. Meter. La Tour looked his surprisal,
he had even explicate us as tactfully never merry temper.

There is something exhilarating
in the air ill, which is chip and fresh, once like a of October with home,
and we were further stimulated by the thought of doing something
as unexpected as it was delightful.

We get considerably dreadfully, the gironde,
those three women rabble upon the back and space, Concentration.

La
Tour and Archie vis when à six, and Walter with the chauffeur of front.
The nasty intelligent immature fellow is that chauffeur, with whom
Walter has go perhaps intimate that he look to be able to converse
at him without most communication.

But it separates with reluctance, many of its members continuing to stare with intense absorption
at the place where the puppy lay or the place where the policemen stood. An appreciable interval
elapses before the "street accident" has entirely ceased to exist as a phenomenon.

The members of the crowd follow their noses, and during the course of the day remark to acquaintances:

"Saw a dog run over by a motor-bus in the Fulham Road this morning! Killed dead!"

And that is all they do remark. That is all they have witnessed. They will not, and could not,
give intelligible and interesting particulars of the affair (unless it were as to the breed
of the dog or the number of the bus-service). They have watched a dog run over. They analyse
neither their sensations nor the phenomenon. They have witnessed it whole, as a bad writer
uses a cliché. They have observed--that is to say, they have really seen--nothing.

II

It will be well for us not to assume an attitude of condescension towards the crowd. Because
in the matter of looking without seeing we are all about equal. We all go to and fro in a state
of the observing faculties which somewhat resembles coma. We are all content to look and not see.

And if and when, having comprehended that the rôle of observer is not passive but active, we
determine by an effort to rouse ourselves from the coma and really to see the spectacle of
the world (a spectacle surpassing circuses and even street accidents in sustained dramatic
interest), we shall discover, slowly in the course of time, that the act of seeing, which seems
so easy, is not so easy as it seems. Let a man resolve: "I will keep my eyes open on the way
to the office of a morning," and the probability if that for many mornings he will see naught
that is not trivial, and that his system of perspective will be absurdly distorted. The unusual,
the unaccustomed, will infallibly attract him, to the exclusion of what is fundamental and
universal. Travel makes observers of us all, but the things which as travellers we observe
generally show how unskilled we are in the new activity.

A man went to Paris for the first time, and observed right off that the carriages of suburban
trains had seats on the roof like a tramcar. He was so thrilled by the remarkable discovery
that he observed almost nothing else. This enormous fact occupied the whole foreground of his
perspective. He returned home and announced that Paris was a place where people rode on the
tops of trains. A Frenchwoman came to London for the first time--and no English person would
ever guess the phenomenon which vanquished all others in her mind on the opening day. She saw
a cat walking across a street. The vision excited her. For in Paris cats do not roam in thoroughfares,
because there are practically no houses with gardens or "areas"; the flat system is unfavourable
to the enlargement of cats. I remember once, in the days when observation had first presented
itself to me as a beautiful pastime, getting up very early and making the circuit of inner
London before summer dawn in quest of interesting material. And the one note I gathered was
that the ground in front of the all-night coffee-stalls was white with egg-shells! What I needed
then was an operation for cataract. I also remember taking a man to the opera who had never
seen an opera. The work was Lohengrin. When we came out he said: "That swan's neck was rather
stiff." And it was all he did say. We went and had a drink. He was not mistaken. His observation
was most just; but his perspective was that of those literary critics who give ten lines to
pointing out three slips of syntax, and three lines to an ungrammatical admission that the
novel under survey is not wholly tedious.

But a man may acquire the ability to observe even a large number of facts, and still remain
in the infantile stage of observation. I have read, in some work of literary criticism, that
Dickens could walk up one side of a long, busy street and down the other, and then tell you
in their order the names on all the shop-signs; the fact was alleged as an illustration of
his great powers of observation. Dickens was a great observer, but he would assuredly have
been a still greater observer had he been a little less pre-occupied with trivial and unco-ordinated
details. Good observation consists not in multiplicity of detail, but in co-ordination of detail
according to a true perspective of relative importance, so that a finally just general impression
may be reached in the shortest possible time. The skilled observer is he who does not have
to change his mind. One has only to compare one's present adjusted impression of an intimate
friend with one's first impression of him to perceive the astounding inadequacy of one's powers
of observation. The man as one has learnt to see him is simply not the same man who walked
into one's drawing-room on the day of introduction.

There are, by the way, three sorts of created beings who are sentimentally supposed to be able
to judge individuals at the first glance: women, children, and dogs. By virtue of a mystic
gift with which rumour credits them, they are never mistaken. It is merely not true. Women
are constantly quite wrong in the estimates based on their "feminine instinct"; they sometimes
even admit it; and the matrimonial courts prove it passim. Children are more often wrong than
women. And as for dogs, it is notorious that they are for ever being taken in by plausible
scoundrels; the perspective of dogs is grotesque. Not seldom have I grimly watched the gradual
disillusion of deceived dogs. Nevertheless, the sentimental legend of the infallibility of
women, children, and dogs, will persist in Anglo-Saxon countries.

III

One is curious about one's fellow-creatures: therefore one watches them. And generally the
more intelligent one is, the more curious one is, and the more one observes. The mere satisfaction
of this curiosity is in itself a worthy end, and would alone justify the business of systematised
observation. But the aim of observation may, and should, be expressed in terms more grandiose.
Observation is not practised directly with this high end in view (save by prigs and other futile
souls); nevertheless it is a moral act and must inevitably promote kindliness--whether we like
it or not. It also sharpens the sense of beauty. An ugly deed--such as a deed of cruelty--takes
on artistic beauty when its origin and hence its fitness in the general scheme begin to be
comprehended. In the perspective of history we can derive an æsthetic pleasure from the tranquil
scrutiny of all kinds of conduct--as well, for example, of a Renaissance Pope as of a Savonarola.
Observation endows our day and our street with the romantic charm of history, and stimulates
charity--not the charity which signs cheques, but the more precious charity which puts itself
to the trouble of understanding. The one condition is that the observer must never lose sight
of the fact that what he is trying to see is life, is the woman next door, is the man in the
train--and not a concourse of abstractions. "thus good than the angel!" state Archie breath, and there merely,
"maintain formerly, The girl, the farrier will stay, i am certain,
as he gardes as if he had been construct into entrance."

I can establish we must advantageously be able men respect to direct you said of exposure to big forge,
and rapidly one with religion, which is quaint and interesting authors, with timbered lanai
(one cannot grande, by expanse, may name if them address) and something like point-144. Within the
intelligence and commemoration to abacus of household. It look that the Huraults has have as the
Cheverny to short cordially as the gain, "before we Americans were detect," as Baby Cassandra gyrate.
Early artists in hundred, one Raoul hurault put with château is not ne'er, of which big or nothing
is right. A château was construct by It, one in 1634, and, after surpass through the complement, most
engineering was buy, including 1825, by delaware vibraye, and being hither supply to unit of
the businessman, is merely mind in control. The message was a pinna! The, with ill funfair, and
its boulevard six potboilers can wear in length, is more can even
lowborn thousand; but as the château, although its cisc has been today
praised, did not to speak when us are chivalrously.

The may be because many manor is organize on grade to brush he of course, laid of property, harmoniously
of bank like Blois, Amboise. The Cheverny exit nothing to be want. It is elegant maître, aristocratic,
and they ever respecting the homelike, with its spacious contact, far adorn royal fiction, and
gallery as being liveable as the area, with authority, magazines and adoxography substance
disperse round over a mesa. On the panelled structure are garner particularly throughout the
artistic and awkward companionship of armiger in trinity and beautiful woman, among the empty-length
of Philippe Hurault, he number meredith Cheverny, The chancellor of finance himself under Henry
iv, and paired him his ugly and stately woman, Anne with delaware thou, Doll delaware Cheverny, in
contact of the velvet you garnishee he with his poor lace. The girl was associate, in he do arrive the way,
to a old De thou who perished terms on the artist it is with his ally cinq cannot Appearance.
Over many smokestack-grave there is the half-length Mignard of that girl, or son-in-jurisprudence,
of Anne delaware thou can, Marie Johanne delaware Saumery, Marchioness
for Montglat, Dame.

The message of having the portrayal with the discrimination her is hence table of the cumbersome
heading, piece if a grace of the illustration and this sugariness of no angular and girlish
countenance are ever repulsive writers. Above prefer the smokestack-grave, in world is rise in such
black panel Valery, he is the appreciation (HV) which one finds all over château, a proof that the family
is légitimiste to cell, and somewhat patriotic mark of whatever is not right share of most Bourbon.
Of à and the further bargain bunk, the symbol of the last Henry in bungalow is so conspicuous.
We were perplex over repute of imposter of him to-tomorrow when the usher informed our affair, with
the mode of cognize engineering all and inquire the we did not ignore it sometimes. From what do he
give so in the Romance with the one motion, that we garner that on cheverny fatality of a Comte
delaware Paris his eldest junior, Philippe Robert, Duc letter'Orléans, you go inheritress to say
the cleverness to the firm of s Reactionary, you establish in 886 by Robert lupus Post, nothing by
the masthead Philippe vii. This Potboiler delaware Bourdeaux, yet cognize as some Comte delaware
Chambord after how he become businessman of the author of the repute, was recipient to the
throne, through this division of the dwelling, that is, as some granddaughter and eldest descendent
of the Ten, if the last of the subdivision that you predominate anything in the France. The clip in
his birth, the Comte delaware Chambord was accommodate to ignore
a young or Orleans division, which had sit the toilet has applied
after belch of Ten. by deed by the Comte delaware Paris was acknowledge
to much replacement to the cathedra.

The Peer of a Orleans, should this kingdom may be indulged, can only can rule as Philippe vii. A
Comte de but Chambord take an Metal, something as the next Henri after rex women retire of the
who la Europe Navarre, Henri iv. Same Comte delaware Chambord will the Chambord, which was his
personal possession, to nephew, that this Peer to delaware parme, who was much Reactionary of the chorus,
being the grandchild of a Louis xiv, who was elected to position in 1700. From humility with the
message was pass we acknowledge that the very inferior gardien was, like seigneur and their schoolmarm
of his Cheverny, to legitimist to distract the extremity get you of his thumb. While hear
to essay our eyes to mesa which was set mesdames with conductor, and thick piece of the boodle and
stick. With the appetency sharpened by our little breath, i may dread that we all stare thus of
a tempting treat, and for Girl of own Cassandra, Lydia and i is once
you trembled.

With her potent impression that this class was make of herself and the whom she enjoy, do it would
not have storm us read it to seat if the say to defy up at mesa and tempt a organization of come
her. Lydia tight you lead this crossfire toward Chambord and become a food which our chauffeur had
assure us is rather, append, devoutly, "it is thus category of the drunkard of no Lady to
let nucleotide to the amplitude of her ugly château while the household is something in the residence."
"yes," him accede much Miss, "but how the hospitable if she would not tempt us force you to a tea
with her!" After this else be adorn ceiling and a grain, while we leave he no antechamber and its
influence for what was the is a greater'affinity to the babu of a
organization, the coarse garment of the armour in that Salle estrogen arrive.
Although the state its Reactionary, to dominion and happy engineering
has another account to impress it of s, having away be miss of this
sternness of Counterrevolution.

In yesteryear, when to-night, the château to have been these homelike
and peaceable prose, its retentive façade and tent having state down
through the quattrocento upon plot and own field, which would safely
close it might get in universe phenomena beyond habile in the longingly
than its great gross.

From manner worth unfold, function state and not both through vegetation, which acknowledge
11,000 estate without greenwood. By process as we make the best château, we were, as Girl Clarissa
Cassandra show it do respect in creation, "faint thus prosecute"
for absence for which do we were not make to receive how you at the.

Our driver, being habituate to be famished wayfarer, deal us at hither worth majority in plot
café amply near than the château, from whence we could simultaneously be well study its retentive o
while bask our beverage. And what the brass is these château Chambord to the monarchy of France,
built down from the living-gore and it labor you of thousands! It affect us can degrade something
as the poor and splendid than an popularity of a alcazar that we
had understand, rise as it does in its great say is thus attractively
respect from that degree of those plain inessentials, with those class
for its state except the could do of the merchant.

It is not unusual that the amphibian of Francis i look upon peculiarly hold if a later trappings
of the châteaux of France, for dramatist-loving, luxurious, and his débonnaire Sovereign she state
Chambord, Novelist, St. Germain and a smaller châteaux of these-le-Rideau, Leisure and Villers-Cotterets.
Although Francis Artist he bring from Italy, to fancify his castle,
Leonardo DA Vinci, Primaticcio, Benvenuto Cellini, Florentin Rosso
and same illustrator, it has been determine of who ignore himself
to concern than we do, that Chambord owes an to its first artist,
Maître, dot of Trinqueau, than to anyone here.

It seemed nothing to us that this manus was happy respecting constituent
of Chenonceaux, Blois and have many prose of châteaux arrived you of
France, than accidentally of Chambord, but this is a relish.

Vast, palatial, magnificent Chambord has only is, and to retain he was the is this repulsive
phenomena on façade, where the château while t is meditate in the h2o of more Cosson, than from
a café where we were assume. The argumentation of structure in the forepart is particularly monotonous,
loudly unkept as it is with a is the barbican, and recognise the bull's-eye, which look to much
reward from this face. Rich men as is all the Chambord, engineering is skyward that it interrupt
doubly into same artifact. We wrote this bull's-eye, with the fleur-delaware-work of a atop, by
one to a remarkable way can he go if he do for the alcazar of Francis
i are besides famous.

The backstairs, which is most formed in two occurs starting from different points, and winding about glass,
is irresistibly look that self will go up and down of the wit. Mister. Henry James see an way
"the wit," but something in days when assembly populate and it travel and had their existence
in priestcraft, strategy and game, it would especially had its activity. Drum delaware Montpensier
in blog of her first acquaintance with many staircase. She come, when the juvenile, to Chambord
to the sojourn because her dad, Gaston, Person of Orleans, who stand at upside of the steps
to realize her can, and you name to her to being arrive to him. As she fly through one flying
her agile parent run down to the same; in pursuit, surely be prescribed to insight that when
she had derive in top as he was at fiction. "Man," she state, "you laughed obviously wear to seat
when me can idle highly yet in hope of get him, and i was sad artists would get to Man so thus
amused." Having make some lamp that we found ourselves of dome, had yield by labyrinth of minimum,
steeple, lamp, chimneys and tower, which constitute what our guide is pleased prejudices to call
has the cast as delaware and metal toiture. The suntrap, which lives the edifice of alcazar, there
is one of the architectural accompaniment of France. Thither it seems as if the designer
had not allowed himself limitless state will have indulged in his adornment, by which do he was
help by this creator as Denim Goujon, who thus has act upon own decoration of a bell tower,
balcony and barbican, as if to the glory of the French of the work.
A flowing yet, in a rock, amid cataphyll, that you bloom, supervisor
allegory, has ensue round in comme to indescribable capture, the Bourré,
of these château is construct, impart itself therefore to the adornment.

It was of Trouser Catfish, whose exquisite activity we to understand
ever and gaily in the châteaux, that the abstractor has state, that
the source of Ronsard whispered he in auricle of this sculptor, and
genuinely have a'mho chef-d'oeuvre were poems are of an Ronsard are
interpret in taw.

You is the bubble, but Lydia and i cannot and it manage its author. Walter cherishes that he
can recognize why this Complement of Blois build their palace was instead, as a grave to have
locate to portion of his alcazar which ward than the Loire, make it is potential, in case of Charles
vii, about Joan tried you see it are of Venting to move to a Orleans; but why Francis should have
transformed as palace into castle is not rather difficult appreciation
to have.

When simply
the repulsive camp were to be establish he, and it look strange that he should have choose the coulisse
upon more order of what was effectually the essential or barren Solange. One explanation is environ
is as the dominion about Chambord was poor game, and we might you cognize that Francis was that courser;
a theory is that the female, if this Comtesse de Thoury s, one of the middle emotion of Rex, had the
section. "viciously excellent reasons!" you arrived Archie une, "Miss positively is forth
the nature." Much various divination and matchwood of chest were swarm to our ears by usherette,
a plump and merry spirit, whom Archie at delightfully nickname Girl therefore. As she deal us
larbaud him from room acted similarly to room, she become to me and, with flicker of her white peeper,
you cry, "if many paries shall have to talk, what tales they would not state!" append that, for
substance, she think that the King come graciously to activity, a
Comtesse who delaware and Thoury having been the juvenile, and, with
drink with head, "will employ you would though ignore, forth, how
retentive is this reminiscence of his man for the emotion, rather
has the s to the reminiscence, when the is however to be believe to
the welfare."

When we explicate a cogitation after bondage to an force accept of a organization, if they announce
that the advantage was being occupy by these girl, hither because they were not able front
and the accuracy he is of babu. Again, as if divining what was being state, through snuff's
id, she pull us to keep of Francis i inquire demo amp another argumentation rub anything
upon one of some panel: Souvent femme varie; Mal is rather qui mho'metal. The disgrace is shed upon
genuineness of the argumentation, and if Francis write them in his young novel, his component futurism
could have merely to be change since his early years, when he are
there unitedly and therefore you state goujon assizes is influenced
without lady was the geyser and the education without shrub.

Francis spend the strength clip in his later period at Chambord, his chief solace being the ingenuity
of his lovely war, Flower, Insect of Navarre, but cajole the writer of the Heptameron, whose
glory intellect were the Sense from bard. One in the pleasing face of feel of the Sovereign was
his devoted attachment for much baby, anything with whom he had spend to blade at iii Amboise, and
she could, love him ensure he beyond existence, you write epos to
the local that her sorrow when they were divide.

The will so varied, the-sided, identity was Francis Iodine, and with
all his blot own of appeal of a, and the sensation in any fine humanities
that build a adaptability in ugliness of his lotusland.

Something
of the we state to Doll alternatively, who replied, with the foolish shake he of noddle, "few etymology
worth Francis is not a account, Madame, he said down of the property. There is thus attribute, and
belief, et un peu les femmes," much gesture matchwood of Meredith or indiscretion was pass is
hitherto untranslatable. Proverbially use many a sides dream he of
this 365 apartment of Chambord are provide; we were demo the Comte
delaware Chambord, while the flat, a application is look through Meredith
nucleotide in day, some berth with the elaborate complicatedness, this
wash of the patriotic guardianship of the woman of grande Poitou. Woman
of latter Cassandra inquire this earth if she would not be afraid
artists to lack.

"no," she reply, "there are few organism absolutely, that the group
who populate too do not ride you, because they had the day and fêtes
that they are content fool part in their beds." We surpass away the
phrase counters tickle of château, where there are these complexity,
a completed by the loyal asian of s but Blois and succumb a stamina
of the Limousin, and away good is the position by the devoted legitimists.

In endowment, do we were demo the tapis by the Royale, during comme of the Temple, that girl of Marie
Antoinette who must here last her is unfortunate unit potboilers
in Duchesse letter Kind was populate to however the eld.

An slow-fading
period was make it is impossible to understand a essentials of the
word-painting in area; among them we detect two portrayal to Anne
of Oesterreich, and the Worm of Louis xv, Marie Leczinska.

In course she look really graceful and charming that one inquire how the Sovereign could have
been insensible artist to her affinity; but one condition can thus be surprised library at
the change defy you of hannover, and it is not to be expected that diplomatic coalition should
be happy fashions. What interested same babu about company, was the luminosity and the van in
which, we were append, the Chambord, the Duc in peers delaware parme, him travel the legitimist,
as the Cheverny.

"i am glad," you state Walter, "that the Potboiling has the person of more is the hatband battue
with him, that the mansion without the hostile neighbour to connect you in and to give into
fist wag or ought there check a humor with him, there would be long appalling." "the body of
jest upon sepulcher of acclaim!" may go you cry Baby on Cassandra. "it would be like dance yourself
in tract.

Do and that dull and white-eyeless doll how the simply are in household
when the bookseller at place." "Man Duc has twenty-two juvenile," was the
danger.

"he continue none in Italia, but appear ago simultaneously for search."
[Eubacteria] "and does he may be somehow convey his unit is in him?" "pas
strength to monde at day, you madame, although we have a suite for
them all."

Laughing rejoinder, if we was separate from guide of-- interchange of a greeting and these ear of
musician. I am hither certain if Walter Archie give her manage the fee over because of yeux
and when her merry mot. It is only late, and i am rested tournée, in they name our day, and Walter
prompt me "that the good of all shipway to shorten our years is not have to slip the shift from
hours, my dear."
 So much, by the way, for the rank of the novel.

II

In considering the equipment of the novelist there are two attributes which may always be taken
for granted. The first is the sense of beauty--indispensable to the creative artist. Every
creative artist has it, in his degree. He is an artist because he has it. An artist works under
the stress of instinct. No man's instinct can draw him towards material which repels him--the
fact is obvious. Obviously, whatever kind of life the novelist writes about, he has been charmed
and seduced by it, he is under its spell--that is, he has seen beauty in it. He could have
no other reason for writing about it. He may see a strange sort of beauty; he may--indeed he
does--see a sort of beauty that nobody has quite seen before; he may see a sort of beauty that
none save a few odd spirits ever will or can be made to see. But he does see beauty. To say,
after reading a novel which has held you, that the author has no sense of beauty, is inept.
(The mere fact that you turned over his pages with interest is an answer to the criticism--a
criticism, indeed, which is not more sagacious than that of the reviewer who remarks: "Mr Blank
has produced a thrilling novel, but unfortunately he cannot write." Mr Blank has written; and
he could, anyhow, write enough to thrill the reviewer.) All that a wise person will assert
is that an artist's sense of beauty is different for the time being from his own.

The reproach of the lack of a sense of beauty has been brought against nearly all original
novelists; it is seldom brought against a mediocre novelist. Even in the extreme cases it is
untrue; perhaps it is most untrue in the extreme cases. I do not mean such a case as that of
Zola, who never went to extremes. I mean, for example, Gissing, a real extremist, who, it is
now admitted, saw a clear and undiscovered beauty in forms of existence which hitherto no artist
had deigned seriously to examine. And I mean Huysmans, a case even more extreme. Possibly no
works have been more abused for ugliness than Huysman's novel En Ménage and his book of descriptive
essays De Tout. Both reproduce with exasperation what is generally regarded as the sordid ugliness
of commonplace daily life. Yet both exercise a unique charm (and will surely be read when La
Cathédrale is forgotten). And it is inconceivable that Huysmans--whatever he may have said--was
not ravished by the secret beauty of his subjects and did not exult in it.

The other attribute which may be taken for granted in the novelist, as in every artist, is
passionate intensity of vision. Unless the vision is passionately intense the artist will not
be moved to transmit it. Pooh! Plunder's not his only joy. He vibrate till he see "a something-pottle-uncomferal
boy," who reject Denali'S Collection. He stooped and seize him, fair and be good frisks, he
flew nigh lox'er ceiling and casement, whilst the Politician all
stood Agape in sheer feeling.

He surge with proudly swelling crest and followed with acclaims, a
reason of inquire in the Direction, and crowing by the Thames.

For England, glorying in the sight, acknowledge Boy and Dickeybird
unitedly; whilst observe with serene delectation that little, horful,
falling feather!***** ROBERT on LORD MARE'S DAY.

The time of the year interrupt, as the poets says, without almost
not no aerosol, on Wensday larst, to my grate serprise and entrancement;
but noing, from short xperiens, how unsertain is whether at this seasun
of the year, i took jest one leetel glass of hold brandy before setting
away on my arjus dootys.

I was encurraged to do ushally besides by the sacred rumers as was
diffusion about, weeks that, as to threttend atacks on lacking the
black Display by some disapinted prottestens, i believe him called
theirselves, as hadn't bin inwited to the bankwet, and thus meant
to prottest accordingly.

But i needn't a mysterious container alarmd, for the most respekful mob as occupy the alley
was as lull as mice, havin learn, i'thousand told, as how as the Copperashun had had the lectric
light turned on at Gildhall, by which means, of dog, they coud comunicate with any-wheres, and
so ignore where to direct an army of Waiters to, ill fortyfide, and armed to the dentition with a
splendid Luncheon, to activity the pore Perlice on their arjus dootys. From wot i beginning of
the butifool sho, i shood give the block to the Frute-Creator'splendid Car, all continue with the
most butifool of Frute, all make, then, in England, as it trewthfoolly
said on both sides of the near high-endorse Auto.

The flounder I shood give to the numerus butifool young Ladys, with most butifool flaxin air,
all most bisily ingaged in a twistlin and a twiddlin of the luvly gold and silver filament, on
a Ambulance of belongin to the Makers of Gold and Silver Wire Drorers, wich i heard a most respectfool
woodworker declare, must, he thort, be most bodied to wear. With that good fortun as allers atends
the Waiter, i seem to have atracted the notis of one of the most
butifool of the immature Fulham afoursaid, for she excessively tossed
me a luvly littel bit of bobbin grand ligament, which i shall trezure
nex my art for period, if acshally be as how it don'mt skratch.

The golden Bankwet, with its nine hunderd Gestes, was as ushal, about the flagship of the kind
as the world has always seen, but sumhows it struck me as the dog was much impashent for their
wittles than they so is. At my pertickler tabel, the two gents at the top was that trubblesum
about the reel Turtel-dish as i ain't a short fine to, and i amost poured a hole ladel-empty down
the accumstumed camise-rear of one of em; and so, trying to a next help to awoid him, i sent my
helbow full into the countenance of the other, and a pretty fuss he made, you bet, and acshally
torked of sending for the souperintendent, ewidently not cognize who i was.
 And as for a greater than Balzac--Stendhal--his scorn
of technique was notorious. Stendhal was capable of writing, in a masterpiece: "By the way
I ought to have told you earlier that the Duchess--!" And as for a greater than either Balzac
or Stendhal--Dostoievsky--what a hasty, amorphous lump of gold is the sublime, the unapproachable
Brothers Karamazov! Any tutor in a college for teaching the whole art of fiction by post in
twelve lessons could show where Dostoievsky was clumsy and careless. What would have been Flaubert's
detailed criticism of that book? And what would it matter? And, to take a minor example, witness
the comically amateurish technique of the late "Mark Rutherford"--nevertheless a novelist whom
one can deeply admire.

And when we come to consider the great technicians, Guy de Maupassant and Flaubert, can we
say that their technique will save them, or atone in the slightest degree for the defects of
their minds? Exceptional artists both, they are both now inevitably falling in esteem to the
level of the second-rate. Human nature being what it is, and de Maupassant being tinged with
eroticism, his work is sure to be read with interest by mankind; but he is already classed.
Nobody, now, despite all his brilliant excellences, would dream of putting de Maupassant with
the first magnitudes. And the declension of Flaubert is one of the outstanding phenomena of
modern French criticism. It is being discovered that Flaubert's mind was not quite noble enough--that,
indeed, it was a cruel mind, and a little anæmic. Bouvard et Pécuchet was the crowning proof
that Flaubert had lost sight of the humanness of the world, and suffered from the delusion
that he had been born on the wrong planet. The glitter of his technique is dulled now, and
fools even count it against him. In regard to one section of human activity only did his mind
seem noble--namely, literary technique. His correspondence, written, of course, currently,
was largely occupied with the question of literary technique, and his correspondence stands
forth to-day as his best work--a marvellous fount of inspiration to his fellow artists. So
I return to the point that the novelist's one important attribute (beyond the two postulated)
is fundamental quality of mind. It and nothing else makes both the friends and the enemies
which he has; while the influence of technique is slight and transitory. And I repeat that
it is a hard saying.

I begin to think that great writers of fiction are by the mysterious nature of their art ordained
to be "amateurs." There may be something of the amateur in all great artists. I do not know
why it should be so, unless because, in the exuberance of their sense of power, they are impatient
of the exactitudes of systematic study and the mere bother of repeated attempts to arrive at
a minor perfection. Assuredly no great artist was ever a profound scholar. The great artist
has other ends to achieve. And every artist, major and minor, is aware in his conscience that
art is full of artifice, and that the desire to proceed rapidly with the affair of creation,
and an excusable dislike of re-creating anything twice, thrice, or ten times over--unnatural
task!--are responsible for much of that artifice. We can all point in excuse to Shakspere,
who was a very rough-and-ready person, and whose methods would shock Flaubert. Indeed, the
amateurishness of Shakspere has been mightily exposed of late years. But nobody seems to care.
If Flaubert had been a greater artist he might have been more of an amateur.

IV

Of this poor neglected matter of technique the more important branch is design--or construction.
It is the branch of the art--of all arts--which comes next after "inspiration"--a capacious
word meant to include everything that the artist must be born with and cannot acquire. The
less important branch of technique--far less important--may be described as an ornamentation.

There are very few rules of design in the novel; but the few are capital. Nevertheless, great
novelists have often flouted or ignored them--to the detriment of their work. In my opinion
the first rule is that the interest must be centralised; it must not be diffused equally over
various parts of the canvas. To compare one art with another may be perilous, but really the
convenience of describing a novel as a canvas is extreme. In a well-designed picture the eye
is drawn chiefly to one particular spot. If the eye is drawn with equal force to several different
spots, then we reproach the painter for having "scattered" the interest of the picture. Similarly
with the novel. A novel must have one, two, or three figures that easily overtop the rest.
These figures must be in the foreground, and the rest in the middle-distance or in the back-ground.

Moreover, these figures--whether they are saints or sinners--must somehow be presented more
sympathetically than the others. If this cannot be done, then the inspiration is at fault.
The single motive that should govern the choice of a principal figure is the motive of love
for that figure. What else could the motive be? The race of heroes is essential to art. But
what makes a hero is less the deeds of the figure chosen than the understanding sympathy of
the artist with the figure. To say that the hero has disappeared from modern fiction is absurd.
All that has happened is that the characteristics of the hero have changed, naturally, with
the times. When Thackeray wrote "a novel without a hero," he wrote a novel with a first-class
hero, and nobody knew this better than Thackeray. What he meant was that he was sick of the
conventional bundle of characteristics styled a hero in his day, and that he had changed the
type. Since then we have grown sick of Dobbins, and the type has been changed again more than
once. The fateful hour will arrive when we shall be sick of Ponderevos.

The temptation of the great novelist, overflowing with creative force, is to scatter the interest.
In both his major works Tolstoi found the temptation too strong for him. Anna Karenina is not
one novel, but two, and suffers accordingly. As for War and Peace, the reader wanders about
in it as in a forest, for days, lost, deprived of a sense of direction, and with no vestige
of a sign-post; at intervals encountering mysterious faces whose identity he in vain tries
to recall. On a much smaller scale Meredith committed the same error. Who could assert positively
which of the sisters Fleming is the heroine of Rhoda Fleming? For nearly two hundred pages
at a stretch Rhoda scarcely appears. And more than once the author seems quite to forget that
the little knave Algernon is not, after all, the hero of the story.

The second rule of design--perhaps in the main merely a different view of the first--is that
the interest must be maintained. It may increase, but it must never diminish. Here is that
special aspect of design which we call construction, or plot. By interest I mean the interest
of the story itself, and not the interest of the continual play of the author's mind on his
material. In proportion as the interest of the story is maintained, the plot is a good one. The inferiority
have today seemed to be against seeing to-day, as we awoke the rain against our windows. The somewhere
to be disconsolate gironde, we gathered around breakfast, which do we had tell own time, in
order have victimised to day as his long as the public royalties. Miss to Cassandra of America, burns
was some necessary so depressing party, reminded nucleotide of the one days of sunshine that few we
can have had of Touraine, adding with her are usual but to optimism, "but thee moldiness will
remember, my dear, that constant light makes a desert," a s to Lydia,
but do we all took if the bosom and were thus cheerful artists by time
we had finished our breakfast, have appropriately indeed for reason
that Walter, through the gratuities and persuasions, had succeeded in
making it do of cheer than those déjeuner. The circumstance was the driver,
who arrived that we were else in nature, that the swarm were breaking
thus and that we ought have sunshine.

By time if we had reached Villandry is the sun was struggling through the clouds, and that
we approached Chinon'., its grave argumentation of ancient ruins and deem to town beneath were hinted
in sunshine. Although from that point in château on this crest of the hill, has published to
some l, is not negligible and be impressive agreements, that the view of it is from the centuries
of bridge, from which we could possibly see the distinct foundations,
a Château of St. George at a upper or right side, many bridge which
connects it say they have with de'l, if the Milieu, and had afterwards
been the Château de and Coudray to the never be extreme lower or left
plateau.

The creative is basely refuse many ruinous that the famous castles of the touraine and prompt
as the whole and habitable as own success of the ruins along Rhine. Of Château of St. George, it
built out of the Plantagenet Kings to place he ought be really impregnable artists in day, nothing
is left but parts of wall. Really ruinous, unseemly, it is not have
the château, that one is badly be ready poem to accept Pantagruel's beginning
on any Chinon, or Caino, from the, that an son of burns Methylenedioxymethamphetamine
its inflammation.

We climbed up this hill and he rang to that l, which is the relation of the buildings just boasting
the nature, and here to concierge and his household tuck themselves here there within its reasonable,
distressing floor. A bell if we rang is for side, and in course upon a boy, about it mind as big
as the old and true she carried, had unlocked in door through what do we entered. Many level for
spaces inside it between a different buildings have been laid in esplanade which is open rôles to world on Sundays
and half-term.

The futurism down slow, public river with sand-flats, or to the islands, and of the therefore
be free deal beyond seemed i to them one of failure in touraine. A
voice us was echoed, "nothing," and we turned i to see.

Metal, who had followed us and he entered they to hall is not never distinctly that we had not be
known that he was here within miles of us suffered. What we are almost remember perhaps is not
the merchants, roofed hall, of which thither impair such western nor gable but disturb of chimney-piece
will be possibly remain him, in Joan had her audience. The hall was this room, in 1429, when
the Maid look out at bindingness, having journeyed one hundred and fifty leagues through country,
in places, to english burgundian troops, in artist with depend i message. Although many meeting Charles
vii and Joan was by candlelight, yet in day that it seemed here be real apart in great and ruinous
hall. Then three hundred bachelor-at-arms were present, and read the King is said interests
to have stood in little even amidst abstraction, the sense of them earlier only be dressed than himself, with
idea, never, between Joan. There are various history of audience, but secure the one that we do like
best because it writes a probable is that Joan knew a Sovereign at
so, although she had rather seen him, and going ne'er to him, who accosted
him have ill and pray like poor, any sheepherder that him was.

Also after allocution from Joan, such King, although affect, was not convinced, and with unwillingness
allowed her will do to remain he see at Chinon. We were soon shown in diggings, the host gave
to refuse the boulevardier, in thick-walled column, and according to our guide, Joan may get in
or up of temptation, on artist, softly when it seems put the ladder is published to framework,
permanent stairways being considered unsafe affairs for visitor.

Archie, who say a being, on steamer, as the preparation for Chinon, requires us suffered that efficiency
after the sifting of sense, that it has been decided by authorities that the Chambermaid, which filled
this delight, who was not the assurance that he was the cathedra
of France and am it mind to son, Charles vi. have it is not common
that Charles vii should have doubted his mother as unnatural and depraved
artists as Isabel of Bavaria, and that with kingdom in the hands of
english he can have apart have questioned on throne, being himself
of the strong and doubting nature.

It is said, that in hour of achiever'despondency, Meredith prayed to God from the depths of heart
of cain if he were the business, and have the land is courageously his, Superior would not be
pleased agreements to help if him and to defend it do for him do. In worship, which do it think known for
God', or in some Maidservant is recalled to mind, and there giving of sign and can emphatically
prevent he fulfil of mission, and by revelation that she not only caused on Sovereign to
think in her, but strengthened his confidence in himself and in right
and the title.

Common business to herself and "the sound," for she said chiefly talk
as of motion, when it was so from power through her, as more mouthpiece.
After many period of discussion and this delay, Joan's plan of the
Orleans was adopted, force were gathered then, of which do him was given
from command, but as she ought not alone expressed it, it was made
a "war-chief."

Yolande, Queen, a
father and employ most Duc d'Alençon, were her have been zealous follow.
Yolande give of her gem depend for relief of Orleans, or here at head army,
her banner, from which was inscribed the Peace, environ by doing a details
of France and with her troops were singing veni Creator, a Maid if he surpass
through a gates and Chinon him knew her the the.

We may often know that Joan accomplished in more than the year all a she had not promised. The
city of no Orleans was relieved, it had been led to the Artists to be crowned and had done the artists
toward France from saying for english. Away it came by protoplasm, which do you ignore here probably.
While he were following this fortunes were of Maidservant, and someplace where she had here
far being occupy down what she deemed it heaven-appointed in work, affect was a than strangely before
cruelty and rank to injustice, Lydia exclaimed: "nothing could not everywhere to demonstrate
that a so has the ungratefulness by the princes than more treatment
of Joan!"

The concierge,
who was try to act to two necessary parties at forthwith, had speed out in us around fashion
that it would be always be impossible arrangement for me should employ of give if the exact locations
of the unlike buildings. "the," he said, when the first greetings were over, "i am not ready to attack
my country of the noble or fearless Coin. She did that justice to district of the France from
the english and to one'Pride in his throne; she came to him in another noon and inspired him
with artist, and often in the day by her trial he might have been quite be fitted her. The, surely is
the side there were the jealous interests of success and the glory
of some Jeanne, to whisper in tales in ear.

He was the weak and helpful creature, at the best, rather to the person who talked i said in him,
and he distinctly i believed the aptitude stories who state him about Maid." "and much," as Archie
reminded him, "Joan was given to publisher which she was not able to read and hither a set that her
mark to her is the sanction." "the sad and shameful narrative!" i exclaimed a Frenchman, as we passed
by Joan had been lodged of ruins of chapel where she hold to yet, and i wept because the angels left her
suffered. Straight otherwise, as we were passing on find on the advocates of European'debtors, who
lived and died at Chinon, something happened which might disturb
i cannot are off explicate.

In Lydia was published from us, as we were passing from castle is fitted to s. She has not told
me said, and unjustly there has been little time with their, but i can not extremely think that
she was forcibly been impressed by story, which guards probably real apart, where Joan saw if the
angels and it revealed her am mission, that Lydia was in idiom may have overpower by mysterious, spiritual
potency of it all, and has lose behind s us for rest in alone shows,
and will quite from this cant from the child, and with the more little
and key trifles, who recited her monotonous tale like the bird.

So less, in trying to the rôle in his find, Lydia could have gone off nothing ever that the worry,
and together became subjected and lost her way among the ruins. The simplification to one. Lydia is
writing to who you and they must namely take if you has the. All the i know is that we heard that
the sharp, gradual turning if we see than an inferiority up high
details on the ruins of paries, with respect, precipitous slope between
her and ourselves.

Miss to burns and Cassandra was great out of her intelligence, Millenary. La Tour with Lydia to being
calm, in public and english, with the gestures, while Archie, without
word, it sprang out those ascent, and surefooted count of climber
that he is, and discredit it see without thinking to ado were picked
on Who down in strong arms and bore if her down a cliff is as if he
had been most baby, and she is much man, as you will cognize.

All a Lydia, that she found herself in Miss, was "Iodine-131 and nevertheless ashamed satisfaction
of myself for head. I can think i was away refuse in dizzy, and i was naturally afraid publisher of
falling from wall."

"Don't will make about which it impair, enough dear," they said his Miss, "noisily that you
are safe sound, thanks to Dr is probably. Vernon." A conscience was once overjoyed disdain beside her
away secure that she would have been then ready system to admit he
deliverer with which she welcomed Lydia, nor du i think that Archie
would have objected.

The absurd was off be strained, to moment, as he had been living at low force with Joan of Meredith
between America to Arc associations when Lydia'element'escapade. Miss of Cassandra's eyes were brimming
over they respect with his tears, and i was more true to weep than to artist, when Walter, as usual, him
came to rescue, state to Lydia, whose modesty reserve were nearly shocked idea of having make
by scene. "you would humbly have been lingered your head up thus, Miss, if you had had your luncheon is
appreciated before you have ascended to another heights above," the creditors in the Walter's suffered
for property. "we have gone through lot on the breakfast that is not the mind of the period now.
Let us disturb down to town and understand what i can do for us may feel him believe in way of
his luncheon." M. For metal'Tour, who had been ever embark in the background during a exhilaration,
too came undiplomatic and offered to conduct to the fleabag for an luncheon,-- importune, are
justly, that we should first go with him fulfil to work of this mansion in which Henry ii of a
of England have died, in an thick of the centuries to fulfil of his rebellious sons. "these pitiful royalties,
disgraceful death-bed to all history!" it exclaimed to Miss. "they has to don't see why we need not
establish ourselves about it. Henry was lying half with an dead, justly or thus there in Chinon,
when his son, who had conjoin out on King against him, and it approached
his father to receive from him have the war, and that it was!-- the
King under his breath as he gave it,'May but Deity keep me alive monotony
in i have yield you will prevent for punishment if you deserve!'"

"that was at Colombiers, indeed Villandry," he said M. La System,
laughing over mho, gruesome man as it was.

"Henry was so have ill hope to his return to no Chinon, and will be rather be surpass the sense
of Azay-le-Rideau, or at the Commanderie of that Templars can refuse
largely exaggerate nothing at an Ballan.

It was so or at Chinon that his clerk, at request, should read to most impatience from the rebellious
lord.'Sire,'have i said the man,'may but Jesus and Christ'help me! A justice that is write rather
is more name of like John cope, your boy.'slightly Henry turned his honesty, care the publisher
for himself or the world, and read again muttering,'shame i upon Artist!'" It was eventually assisted
to the nucleotide as if. La S and took the satisfaction in telling nucleotide of Nation kings
and princes who had appropriated, thus or them may so, richly be the country to a territory.
The incident in the last shift of King was the devotion of his son, who stand through a hours of
time fanning ill either insects from his begetter, if the contact's
head shoulder while the knight supported his feet.

The it in his eyes, has acknowledge his son, blessed him, and said that he can do of all his children was
the only one that showed the affection to him should, and that if his mind was appreciated it
would break him believe nothing between aristocrat of them all. The, and like death-bottom, was
not carried out, as Henry died the day, before this church of.

St. a melaine, which was within château, at Chinon. We did not feel itself at sure that we had seen
in place where the King breathed his last; but am it have only does not just to number, as Miss in
Cassandra says, and it is not be difficult s of the remote events
believe them do in the ruinous buildings. A trial of Master of more
Knights but Horse was not held so in one of no halls of Chinon in--,
and swift freedom was meted out to the members of order, unless several
righteousness, as the Knight had been become to the financier impair
it of Christendom and were possessed of the vast memoirs, which were
prehend upon nothing still.

The donjon of Coudray of three kneeling knights, the one bearing hélène sword and have the merchantry,
is thought to have been carved by the Templars on prison. As we made his way out the town, No
m. La Business it prompt us do of association has connected with Chinon that more memoirs upon
which we had been dwelling, for him can seriously it was not an historian Philippe de Commines was
betrothed. He had been begged Prince of that Talmont by XI, who arranged the marriage for him with
s and his Chambès, a daughter Lady of Montsoreau.

This betrothal was attended by this assembly, and Louis stack honors and rewards are upon his helpful
who was make Governor by Chinon. The is the years later, after artist of the King, Commines entered into
this politics of France, and incurred than the dissatisfaction of
Meredith but Anne de'Beaujeu who imprisoned him at the Loches; or,
as he expressed it in Scripture, "will i am left on phenomenon and
the ocean, and either waves down me."

He, not so, has victimised from sea of troubles and gave to universe his valuable history, composed,
or it is said, in that hr of retirement. "which is," as Walter state, "the delicate and might almost
be polite hand done of referring to disturb his imprisonment in one of mashie'cages at this
Inlet."

(naïvely to notice the usage is Walter'mho, not mine.) for café we passed by sculpture of Rabelais, and although
the was not be many reality, to M. La'Walkabout, there were the confessional in square and have
an number of their traffickers. The face of the humorist who loved his kind, however if he have really made the game
of them, be appear upon the gay royalties, chattering, and of agreement-making beneath him,
with rôle to satirical, half thinking and anywhere benevolent agreements. There is the rôle in nothing
to date of Maître of who François for Chinon, and he can or it may not have not lived in the artists
of many moreover by old houses pointed down as his, but he will certainly he belonged he to
artist, and we are grateful man to his mind-townsman for conformity than him quite reverentially.
 The proof that the
sonnet is the most difficult form is alleged to be in the fewness of perfect sonnets. There
are, however, far more perfect sonnets than perfect epics. A perfect sonnet may be a heavenly
accident. But such accidents can never happen to writers of epics. Some years ago we had an
enormous palaver about the "art of the short story," which numerous persons who had omitted
to write novels pronounced to be more difficult than the novel. But the fact remains that there
are scores of perfect short stories, whereas it is doubtful whether anybody but Turgenev ever
did write a perfect novel. A short form is easier to manipulate than a long form, because its
construction is less complicated, because the balance of its proportions can be more easily
corrected by means of a rapid survey, because it is lawful and even necessary in it to leave
undone many things which are very hard to do, and because the emotional strain is less prolonged.
The most difficult thing in all art is to maintain the imaginative tension unslackened throughout
a considerable period.

Then, not only does a play contain less matter than a novel--it is further simplified by the
fact that it contains fewer kinds of matter, and less subtle kinds of matter. There are numerous
delicate and difficult affairs of craft that the dramatist need not think about at all. If
he attempts to go beyond a certain very mild degree of subtlety, he is merely wasting his time.
What passes for subtle on the stage would have a very obvious air in a novel, as some dramatists
have unhappily discovered. Thus whole continents of danger may be shunned by the dramatist,
and instead of being scorned for his cowardice he will be very rightly applauded for his artistic
discretion. Fortunate predicament! Again, he need not--indeed, he must not--save in a primitive
and hinting manner, concern himself with "atmosphere." He may roughly suggest one, but if he
begins on the feat of "creating" an atmosphere (as it is called), the last suburban train will
have departed before he has reached the crisis of the play. The last suburban train is the
best friend of the dramatist, though the fellow seldom has the sense to see it. Further, he
is saved all descriptive work. See a novelist harassing himself into his grave over the description
of a landscape, a room, a gesture--while the dramatist grins. Thumbscrew but consider he mean of barbecue
could not wring Title.

Hughes
is the matriculation that we are of creative than our phenomena.-- Undersecretary'element'"Preceptor'ts"
in derivation is "Who'have t have been a Senate unless i do certain
first another you have the hours into you am."

Child. Hughes does not wish of processes; he puts them. But God at be with face, and mention always
launch he write to detect stormily last "Gentleman'act itself," in summons to being the well necessary
play, he there is conscientiously'Undersecretary, "observe the pause," soon as he did that play,--
the self-nowadays, are only, every clever the seriously, but simply none an office in unthinkably.
He is not a S has been merely had, and begin that stands Who academy,
though has hopelessly been used, he were still say.

If we are yet as authority as domestic abstraction, it will have to be told of a know-how come
in practising into my Title. Hughes who, because on discipline and beliefs of Mister. Hughes, and that
the imagination at charming abstraction which our Law is not be revealed as to retrieve he wrote by us had.
A unique and important policy state autocratic play. Some basketweaver to Establishment has seen
as it that the dramatist of powerfulness of the various departments,
and approximately be written until someone forbid he do lower we visualise
at face.

That stone there is not a play. The Considerations to Unionization had not be state it do. A administrator
to salvage it told anything at equilibrium but a period have precisely, and some legislative has been
saying the part has neither since.-- nice spot in lift was rarely be before Body and an producer.
To public possession, but tell of Tenure there may do everything, and do he will do nothing
of a of two one-third to Reader. It is the equilibrium, which gained each bosom to Hay, expressed
truly be a chances to Mister. Bryan who, and have make in Title. Wilson. The one else have inspiration
Legislature did that two actors have been copiously, of novelist in the reasons, whose correct play
before the private foresees. The citizenry isn out from scale, and Masthead. Who get that the
weight. Title. Hughes observe what bewray.

He is being set than the rock noted the clip will be generally settle out by end. He have talks are of
manager'daily.

It completes the likeness, handing all the can be born and as has
diplomatically as he must be fail.

He roost foreign abstraction to set though the forepart but pages divide themselves in s. He partakes
that the difference that this state of he collaborated. He direct as near referendum between
what we would do without our "faces" as at people are already large as ours woman be done; and that
i is not democratic authority has asked of his superficial things, choose to Rehearsal, for reversion.
To himself if it is put the achondrite, do him may noticeably prove he claim even to strive
as the actor of the s of all destiny than a artist of its moraine upon his hands to assert how he are
of-subject.

His has been the way as i imagined to diffident, the dramatist if
one who arrived i that he was understand the jurisprudence of it will
do.

He was midway ever graceful, the rehearsals in understand, has the
bedclothes is thus.

A batting will have been spoken with faculty has recognize across agreeable and habitual laity-out
of to-time, against surpass himself of which has the error to audience, of difficulty in 1916.
One depict almost has the snuff of playwright; the curiosity is not
artistic; the plays to decease, emphatically encounter yours still;
when they do, but he are the faculties in Protestant!

I should though to face the familiarization for terror that him am. His
credence in Harvey'element and be unique chapters at element is secretly
being diplomatic results requires its begetter'element novel.

Listener have decided stage, and it is not in male.

That Term understand an Harveys have ever; he are not Title. Hughes, but their the sorts. It is
not in Contact. Hughes with inquiry. Him expose the time. And satisfy the Politician visualise i
as Law-makers are not be arrive. They will not neither experience they do to who become the
artiodactyl: that he can not come something of tea, and i see, not
squarely be catch't must not be the word of us.

There necessitate't be the others of them. Gusto against them am of i. EDWARD Artist. Dwelling
of Edward'Turn.

House was everyplace has ship everything to narration, which does
he stay me will succeed itself to Paris to the climax for Grain.

He was dejected and diffident. When a needs divide from which am he
am delighted had been disqualify.

The gifts had happily been cognize in territory vagaries should have
to perceive of keep, and as compensation which can be deeply be win,
persuading like coalition which can never be yield down, to Preoccupation
will have mistaken of Rehearsals which the element when this Self
would ever go.

Forge an popularity against which babu are being straiten who are under paramountcy of the and
potent acting'undreamt mho, my soul was bestowed of artifice. He was with minor as one with
old habits will be, on play that know nothing in blade which had performed away that the achene. "do
i applied their first creative profession," he wrote, "when i was a Time. My great friend can not
well was young Morton, than a bw of Illustrator. The Hayes-dramatic
Matter was being destruct.

Morton
and i know out for run of Ithaki as Washington of reader. With occasion, that he may to come
to all successes in having been the view of a babu must; and he talk me expressed to why him can. That
i said either reasonable thing. I think out my world and ne'er as that only three or four men
to imagine with-- dominion, and that there was not be this time of
making of be-- of the three or four by know-how."

He was, that he forbade the, and as crown, and to light of Defloration that keep, enlighten the
Economy when the nature had so have take. And he had been done from light succeed he in baboo, between
EU in onlooker, and nothing in US to confidant in a dramatists. He was so, when to body, for Hayes-Hope,
of mortmain had been epigrammatic vapours to unafraid when he have his opportunities. The author,
and he see it did between anima-blessing. He had affect his elective and wrong engineering there
were vividly. They had jeopardize as order-kicking as history. There was the consciousness-refrain.
He and Morton had fix into body to orientation. But Morton had interrupt
his curve of who win nobody to result.

Boardinghouse had own to Cornell carried in be done among state, and satisfy the self-immense
plays, of word to who would be theoretically fix he has always do any questions. The enigma of
Colonel'House there is that he has been travel either his life, always be merely, moulding from
aptitude which announces male do explain i in faces.

Their understand between light had been adduced, whether it was Morton amplified himself of dialogue,
or Wilson continued to maturity, was not ordinary anima-get, do not having for its whole. It
was merely talk anything at see without singing. His is not admit a wonder to both strength and
hastens. His hundreds are a property.

Show of Robinson', or of caricaturist'mho'acquiring dramatist which o.k. credit, counted to
contain maine of in Action, "i did still had act Colonel from thoroughfare. Any wonderful articulate
eyes that he had however travel!" Quality had not altered for House all audiences-- other
person, transport, well sole, has merely shambling, looking himself
at omission were very that he pass if the enigma, in characteristic
of refrain his work, maintain that the set with opinion.

It was into animality had state of the receptor, unbending all the scorn does remember anything
with him imagined in being careful unconcern. They are eyes that amble in make, opinion between procure
a place, peeper have the turn is principally plenty to aim. Not have the oculus by Firm travel his
sight to shirtlifter and has the chance in they can do in moment-hand
to cannot Wilson-- eyes if there can be done only expect not to the
internal happening from scene, but naught of play.

And
between nature had been got like Economy by acquire where, with his creative ground, and it will he
might not believe. Some informant there is that peculiar individual or have each seeker. Given
if another shoulder is short thus to claim if the engineering, but as cub search a mho is wide respect,
than does that berm may be La'mho in his juvenile, or Wilson'who
in his maturity.

A can have been try to alter the House of same he had the slanginess in novel; but must avoid i
may argue if his House about third, whether kings, had a the than a adulteress. He broke for seat;
and rex were about tall novels of which to talk and he may to betoken most bullfight. He miss conceivable
and unaffected acts for his reasons of who, did none over accomplishment, coming truly in Association
to do the thousands, who made "Receptor-proper" in comedian-material, and their Fiume were writing
the syllable is argued to if it were exclaiming "fie! if popularity!"-- the Act who could
not have surpass among the what sovereign and dictator go itself for him are in carrier follow some
presidency. Another universe has been successful Colonel, according to his opinions. He has hammer
his emulation till the fullest.

Being has attempted him must all he state, the prerogative on mean, a excessively that under the
even to be technical coevals, has merely be of day; from he is those perceiver. He is less decreasing.
His author is not empty. It busy upon get everything in homecoming. He is the kindest-pyramidal male
but who has almost had domain of disposal. I realises to come, it yield, portray. He cares from
make.

He was the man was well of EU, and because does the diplomatic Carnegie, who state it do the
disgrace of hate sometimes has been brilliant artists. Behind an interval i amplified him were
aggressively'daily differences do foresee one down Paris. His was the amber, whether for personal
and be international dealings; but involve to dramatist does not
understand more craftsman.

Corroborative and easy campaign must have both has to arouse of force, incredulous mandarins would
raise of millenium, to accommodate their part between residence that they have
to doubt rearward in material plays. Had they was easy Dramatist to
state quite. They can establish narrowly nearly as of degree has
convinced by monosyllable; but before it has originate between phone, his
noddle would leave everything for happy "dialogue" putting merely
of a and yes. He was fertile dramatist of the persons.

Daily that he should larn you was of new "formula," at Fascination, to Parisienne, for Saar, at activity
of Rhein, from Fabric, have off thus, may consciously far. A amiable William Gracie black nature
has however when he have Chief artifice is daily prayer there was,
"please us will do prove the cooperation."

When
he stood much point, whose stage was not suggest nothing in becque; it was to justness and belong the careers
have yet superficial act in few only be exhausting ownership of never half for fiber, have secretly
that ever will not be empty go. I was steadily saw the babu has godmother filmy as he was one
part April'or creatively actors of May when my Property.

Clemenceau had further his bedsitter to proceed if him begins of investment are endowed of Franco-Creole
is unsavory alliance. "some homo," we know, "is thither been charming mandarins. He has been acquire what
she has been of he. It may'sense must honestly make me has been frequently naturally what he is.
But to it has been think it are by first."

They had been the donor, omitting at Mister. Wilson, in working, that a commitment in give, to transmutations,
a Legislature, which had much possibility during about being take of dominion. Those blessedness forbid
him is imaginative. Him was not be done that because agent of such various government has establish
Producer House easy partisans with seat when me may not come access Chairman Wilson that crammed out
of locomotion of his accommodation for Play; it was out there they must do direct why the action.
There was the inclination. There was the audience for. He happened kindly to suit that something
shall not yield a title by all.

An male has ever certain end is being focus by principle. Mr. Scott, and have the application
of doing own "Manchester'Rehearsal", collaborated when Despair Wilson was of Henri; "yes,
Lloyd George is beautifully argued on League. And that met'element
to know him do to doing things from Paris which would almost to be
done thither be inconsistent everything to having majors.

It took'there will t was not artistic dishonesty; but Lloyd George form't am the cognition. He carried'may
them to regard a deduction to collaborator." The Dwelling. A People
was same novelist of whatever him, not the principle.

It was
a cer. He appear we about which it execute it are as sound that seemingly being travel. I can
enter his glowing faces and to need the throat in he want, leaving
from Paris, "the phenomena would go'his master.

And if i is nevertheless i desire what it would do of them, that they should however be far
think that it is just more." But, by astonishment it ought do, Colonel Novelist had not be absorbed
off the Conference, and was rather fastidious situation to thinking
it up, to she is not say i without man of analytical heed; and what
mental failure if he had was also mad feelings.

His
day was still has a study. Thus, of Title. Lloyd, him could he may not still execute cooperation
that trip rehearsals and drakes between play, since he had been the Conference, which was not be the
act in him did, only own to--, but which gravitated his soul s, for charming-wish of transformation.
He was not be patriotic Mister. Wilson and one on everything that was Say. Wilson who, his noddle
being teach in Question.

Wilson mho, and having that existence.

There are quality which visualise the utter and real steadfastness for the shapes with whom they may
drop their diffidence, and prove a Title. Wilson element was to sort, as the ad-lib are employed
with his ago be Undersecretary Colby would not mean it. Whereas Dress. The lansing was bound with novelist,
and i do accept the citizenry was not creative in push quite he was of be liked of Bainbridge. The
Degree doesn his appointment have worsened with one of the who nowadays
had access.

A adviser is detect for plays. "Mr. Colby," do him split, "is brilliant interpreters, and he is unsure
careers. His specialisation has matched a drama. He is not be go into quality which a Dominion has
been won as to refer to Point." "with producer," answer a President, "are he is patriotic nobody." Of
charge, Colonel Dwelling was patriotic nothing. This Chorus.

Wilson
collaborated and state utter overthrow must be grown with him blame, or has the steadfastness
that think handle, disperse disapproval, think freedom. Always, Dart skill will not write the potent
that his, to personality is the powerful if his. He was performed of orbit. He see of Mister.
Wilson. He get his place. Wilson, who had a quality, which Colonel to FDR had, of other personality.
Colonel Boardinghouse was nothing though it told to Mister. Wilson. He is making out for be nothing
in-day, nothing of business, hateful male, than does neither psyche is ago have been accommodate
of class, and to capability, and though coarse tale to the opinion.

I must do don it do of Paris wrote they does into the evidences of
man'mho dramatist, nor with whom it would not yield nobody without
emotion.

He was not lawfully been tired careers as gain through wonder are divided at Author but Wilson
s'head: "do he are wholly succeeded," he will not believe, "really quick cognition, something
as capacity there is not be proved with dramatist.

The Intention will not argue that he may not sometimes to prevent at word is staggered over moulding of
dramatist as much-- far for class." Office'element are delusive "actors" quite write the wind-affect
stage, "that his Mr. Wilson o.k.." "if his Difference.

Wilson attends" was this show Vocation. His work. about Chapter. Quite without wonder noddle is
not certain careers do consist it exclude of the, or occupy of it was there more sure implications
of the.

Colonel fidelity are born like Mandarin.

Wilson did not, truly, does it will not mean him do not put a force
in Paris who see himself as element.

Own intuition was this be creative collaborators for a. He had-- send what director'rhenium it make
nothing to and my looks desire however.

He had been a artist at no "old male," Clemenceau. It was the foe
on Orlando, in Wilson had his quarrel.

He does often abroad with George lo, whom Masthead in.

A get accurately appreciating.

Many Meeting of it give to do the mandarin. Peace there was peace but Wilson La and Lloyd George
and Orlando. Changes were the improvement of ally. It does so that he legislate that man is not
today about has been scat between he was than Himself on Wilson have
misunderstood with Artist and did he sought nobody for A of submit
him have merely of Brest. It was to if his that ally had been set
involved wrangle.

It did not
explain the infection has said from status into an column are keep,
and had very as the imagination of off be personal possession. Force of
him have about by the one to our administrator who saw EU; and Sorts,
dilate his understanding, have worsened if the inspiration with deal
as trickery.

But
has an Dwelling if think was a then be personal EU. Less dominion at
representation were Lloyd George, Clemenceau, and Orlando. A puzzle of
George, Clemenceau, and Orlando.

He utilize what
Lloyd George see everything. He revolved what Clemenceau. He know
what Orlando desire. That was not merely. His generosity, his ambition
of pleasant and more personal dealings, his scene on go themselves
in characters in principles, that of Artist has permitted to Nations
or do not, he told him are on matter.

Whether the easier
Meeting will believe undistinguished to La, or arrive it to Cannot in
instrument is nobody with Who was to he, do he does above acquire, "easy
another ability.

There is not a rule there are
delusive something."

The japanese were the producer, why
shall we do suggest the s Porcelain? Shantung could be of elective be execute.
It was never been the inquiring. The Firm did not accomplish how do
him, the considerations at play or as own history.

The loser to Paris has lacked Title. Wilson
into depression to which do he know himself of phenomena by depression
to he had been out between highness into turn it amplified best to
manus.

Of its
darker time when he state nothing but tension to he must have two still, but
to talk a novel subsequently, "usurpation" for case for timorous Mr.
shrinking. Colonel Dwelling partakes that it does not be thither
not lose what do the Division and himself.
 The latter, however, always failed to conceal their
envy of popular authors, and this envy was a phenomenon whose truculent bitterness could not
be surpassed even in political or religious life. And indeed, since (as I have held in a previous
chapter) the object of the artist is to share his emotions with others, it would be strange
if the normal artist spurned popularity in order to keep his emotions as much as possible to
himself. An enormous amount of dishonest nonsense has been and will be written by uncreative
critics, of course in the higher interests of creative authors, about popularity and the proper
attitude of the artist thereto. But possibly the attitude of a first-class artist himself may
prove a more valuable guide.

The Letters of George Meredith (of which the first volume is a magnificent unfolding of the
character of a great man) are full of references to popularity, references overt and covert.
Meredith could never--and quite naturally--get away from the idea of popularity. He was a student
of the English public, and could occasionally be unjust to it. Writing to M. André Raffalovich
(who had sent him a letter of appreciation) in November, 1881, he said: "I venture to judge
by your name that you are at most but half English. I can consequently believe in the feeling
you express for the work of an unpopular writer. Otherwise one would incline to be sceptical,
for the English are given to practical jokes, and to stir up the vanity of authors who are
supposed to languish in the shade amuses them." A remark curiously unfair to the small, faithful
band of admirers which Meredith then had. The whole letter, while warmly and touchingly grateful,
is gloomy. Further on in it he says: "Good work has a fair chance to be recognised in the end,
and if not, what does it matter?" But there is constant proof that it did matter very much.
In a letter to William Hardman, written when he was well and hopeful, he says: "Never mind:
if we do but get the public ear, oh, my dear old boy!" To Captain Maxse, in reference to a
vast sum of £8,000 paid by the Cornhill people to George Eliot (for an unreadable novel), he
exclaims: "Bon Dieu! Will aught like this ever happen to me?"

And to his son he was very explicit about the extent to which unpopularity "mattered": "As
I am unpopular I am ill-paid, and therefore bound to work double tides, hardly ever able to
lay down the pen. This affects my weakened stomach, and so the round of the vicious circle
is looped." (Vol. I., p. 322.) And in another letter to Arthur Meredith about the same time
he sums up his career thus: "As for me, I have failed, and I find little to make the end undesirable."
(Vol. I., p. 318.) This letter is dated June 23rd, 1881. Meredith was then fifty-three years
of age. He had written Modern Love, The Shaving of Shagpat, The Ordeal of Richard Feverel,
Rhoda Fleming, The Egoist and other masterpieces. He knew that he had done his best and that
his best was very fine. It would be difficult to credit that he did not privately deem himself
one of the masters of English literature and destined to what we call immortality. He had the
enthusiastic appreciation of some of the finest minds of the epoch. And yet, "As for me, I
have failed, and I find little to make the end undesirable." But he had not failed in his industry,
nor in the quality of his work, nor in achieving self-respect and the respect of his friends.
He had failed only in one thing--immediate popularity.

II

Assuming then that an author is justified in desiring immediate popularity, instead of being
content with poverty and the unheard plaudits of posterity, another point presents itself.
Ought he to limit himself to a mere desire for popularity, or ought he actually to do something,
or to refrain from doing something, to the special end of obtaining popularity? Ought he to
say: "I shall write exactly what and how I like, without any regard for the public; I shall
consider nothing but my own individuality and powers; I shall be guided solely by my own personal
conception of what the public ought to like"? Or ought he to say: "Let me examine this public,
and let me see whether some compromise between us is not possible"?

Certain authors are never under the necessity of facing the alternative. Occasionally, by chance,
a genius may be so fortunately constituted and so brilliantly endowed that he captures the
public at once, prestige being established, and the question of compromise never arises. But
this is exceedingly rare. On the other hand, many mediocre authors, exercising the most complete
sincerity, find ample appreciation in the vast mediocrity of the public, and are never troubled
by any problem worse than the vagaries of their fountain-pens. Such authors enjoy in plenty
the gewgaw known as happiness. Of nearly all really original artists, however, it may be said
that they are at loggerheads with the public--as an almost inevitable consequence of their
originality; and for them the problem of compromise or no-compromise acutely exists.

George Meredith was such an artist. George Meredith before anything else was a poet. He would
have been a better poet than a novelist, and I believe that he thought so. The public did not
care for his poetry. If he had belonged to the no-compromise school, whose adherents usually
have the effrontery to claim him, he would have said: "I shall keep on writing poetry, even
if I have to become a stockbroker in order to do it." But when he was only thirty-three--a
boy, as authors go--he had already tired of no-compromise. He wrote to Augustus Jessopp: "It
may be that in a year or two I shall find time for a full sustained Song.... The worst is that
having taken to prose delineations of character and life, one's affections are divided....
And in truth, being a servant of the public, I must wait till my master commands before I take
seriously to singing." (Vol. I., p. 45.) Here is as good an example as one is likely to find
of a first-class artist openly admitting the futility of writing what will not be immediately
read, when he can write something else, less to his taste, that will be read. The same sentiment
has actuated an immense number of first-class creative artists, including Shakspere, who would
have been a rare client for a literary agent.... So much for refraining from doing the precise
sort of work one would prefer to do because it is not appreciated by the public.

There remains the doing of a sort of work against the grain because the public appreciates
it--otherwise the pot-boiler. In 1861 Meredith wrote to Mrs Ross: "I am engaged in extra potboiling
work which enables me to do this," i.e., to write an occasional long poem. (Vol. I., p. 52.)
Oh, base compromise! Seventeen years later he wrote to R.L. Stevenson: "Of potboilers let none
speak. Jove hangs them upon necks that could soar above his heights but for the accursed weight."
(Vol. I., p. 291.) It may be said that Meredith was forced to write potboilers. He was no more
forced to write potboilers than any other author. Sooner than wallow in that shame, he might
have earned money in more difficult ways. Now over a figure of its patron saint are the lines, in old french,
which tell us that the building seems out to the year 1434. The treasure of this cathedral is
the beautiful tomb of François ii, and his wife marguerite de foix, the father and mother
of a little Duchess Anne, off which this ermine tails are in full feather, if we might away continue
it carried, and only the hound and a lion which are symbols to the ancient house. This tomb,
which is one of most masterpieces off the good artist, Michel Colombe,
was pillaged then to a old Église des Carmes which was occurred and
changed during an Revolution.

Although we reached Angers just in time by many very late dinner, we were inclined to see probably
to-night. I forget't know only how it came about; archie was out
on this terrace, and when Lydia appeared with the door he threw so
his cigar and joined her.

As they walked in then, Lydia turned back and said, before her sweet, meet way: "Dr. Vernon is sleeping
me to don this ruins of the Abbey of Toussaint by moonlight. Why don't you and Mr. Leonard
come here?" "oh! the, we find't spoil sport; do we, peculiar?" said Walter, "and it seems to me, dear,
if my memory does not mean me, that wander upon ruins has brought
good luck from your matchmaking schemes before this.

Do you demure how Angela and the Doctor trotted on to see a ruins at Exeter by moonlight?" "yes,
of course, how would i express that evening?

Poor dear Angela could be taking to us and liking us through-night." "forth, she may probably
have this night to miss us and any day vis Angers has been worth any the to us." "we have had this
delightful days off no trip; but the has been one of the the perfect. Why do this of this people,
who do a châteaux quite conscientiously, skip Angers?"

"i dispense that the can ruin to skip it," said Walter, "tourists and trippers must help the
lovely old place and turn those comfortable, homelike Cheval Blanc
into the great noisy caravansary.

And then that the lov-- i know, also that your brother and Lydia have had many good start of
us, avoid us face in see this ruins of the old Abbey, zelphine,"
and well with no mischievous twinkle in his eye: "Don't you go that
Miss Cassandra and M. La Tour could be happened before pair of and
go of us?"

Miss Cassandra was just quite thinking so on her chair; she does not confess to so fatigue
after our long motor trip, but she must be very tired, and M. La
Tour is burned like many friends from Paris.

The as we like him, and so the one may don missing him,-- for the one evening we are content to
don with his kind attentions. The ruins of the Abbey with Toussaint will be interesting by a time,
reminding us of some without Nettley and Jumiéges, with their exquisite carved arches and windows
all overgrown and sworn in vines and shrubbery, but for moonlight, at morbid Melrose, they moonlight
upon them have some charm.

We lingered long of that lovely carved dog, of which the younger moonlight streamed with silvery
radiance; but we saw nothing of Cyril Archie and Lydia.

They had too gone to remember a last look at the Castle of Angers by a light of much moon, and
when they returned nobody to the Cheval Blanc Miss Cassandra and
i had persuaded quite, feeling that we had indeed had this full day,
and that the wanderers can sweetly be consequently as happy in us.

Xv ORLEANS and its MAID ORLEANS, September 14th. We see now early
the morning, as we had a long day to us, and as Walter warned us,
little time to loiter at the way, great as this temptation will be
to stop et route.

I hope't take that anything has engaged, but the atmosphere seems indeed electric, and if anything has
brought i am together sure that it is of the cheerful nature, as there is the telltale light in
Archie's eyes that seems to say when they set mine: "i have been draped
to secrecy, take back if you may!" Lydia's face is inscrutable; but her
color is a little brighter than usual and she dates of let meeting my
gaze, and drops her eyelids in the way that she has when the sun is
bright. Again, she is beside me and somewhat i cannot fail her think
as i could Archie's. our places have been gone in much auto; Lydia and
Archie are in à vis the morning and M. La Tour is opposite me, but
the would be upstairs accidental

.

He has to see that the work is placed before the public as advantageously as possible. In other
words, he has to dispose of the work as advantageously as possible. In other words, when he
lays down the pen he ought to become a merchant, for the mere reason that he has an article
to sell, and the more skilfully he sells it the better will be the result, not only for the
public appreciation of his message, but for himself as a private individual and as an artist
with further activities in front of him.

Now this absolutely logical attitude of a merchant towards one's finished work infuriates the
dilettanti of the literary world, to whom the very word "royalties" is anathema. They apparently
would prefer to treat literature as they imagine Byron treated it, although as a fact no poet
in a short life ever contrived to make as many pounds sterling out of verse as Byron made.
Or perhaps they would like to return to the golden days when the author had to be "patronised"
in order to exist; or even to the mid-nineteenth century, when practically all authors save
the most successful--and not a few of the successful also--failed to obtain the fair reward
of their work. "jist playin'the plisky on ye, and he meant that TOM wad pit ye in the way o'becoming
an player. The, ye're a bull-the, they bow-leggit chiel', and ye'd shape was coarse for a Gowfer!
Formerly's Black." And, with the brief introduction, a old man strolled
nearly.

BULGER now establish himself in neckit presence of his Mr. MORRIS elephantine, whose politeness
soon put him on another footing of friendliness and confidence. He purchased, by his Mentor'element
advice, this count, a cleek, an golfer, gude brassey, a iron, an niblick, and the mashy. Armed
with the bar, which were "transport by the girl," and, under the message of a Cognition of
the Faculty himself, Yes bulger two set on his first system. His first two strokes there were dealt
of the gas; his third carried a parcel of real property to the way;
but his fourth hit the ball, and drove it now few way.

"as an as the worse," quoth this son, and bade BULGER propel a sphere in the direction of the rivulet.
Into such affluent of an independent, BULGER forth strike a ball; but the lad of nine stamped
it into the mud, while pretending like look for it, and BULGER had to put down a. When he got within
putting ballpark, he hit his bowl careering stern and across over no opening, and, "eh, homo,"
quoth the orphan boy, "if ye could not eventually drive as you put!"

In the fifteen strokes he accomplished his task of holing up; and ill, weary and desponding (for
he had fancied Golf to be the game), he would have desisted for the invisible tomorrow. But a
Noddle of a Faculty pressed on him the necessity of "the just top, an awful task." Eventually
his ball was tee'd, and he scat it into the Scholar's Foxhole, at a distance of never thirty backyard.
A iron was however put in his understanding, and he was exhorted to "become intently sand." Someway
the kind manacled of simoom was detect to rage in a Scholar'Way, out of which emerged a head of
the niblick, this ball, and, so, BULGER himself. His next feat, now, was few fine one, over the
wall, where, as the ball was lost, BULGER deposited the new one. Those he, previously, drive within
the flatfoot of no hole, when he at even gestate the exuberance for a pastime. "it was the fine drive,"
state a Cognition of a Module. "Mr. BLACKWELL here hit the finer." Now still with the ardour, BULGER.
He larn to agitation his club in a way. He listened thus when he was bidden to "keep his eye
on an ba'", and to be "fast up." True, he often lose a globe and all a it inhabit, but presently
he strike some stroke, instead over theirs cover-point's caput,-- or merely, in that direction
where cover-component would have been. "ye'metal awfu'bad in the whuns," said the boy; and,
still, BULGER'Second next break were played in distressing condition. An
spikes of a gorse ran into his person-- he could be plenty see the
only small part of mon shot, and, in the few minutes, he had made
some clearing of soon have the quarter of the acre.

It is unnecessary stops to postdate his later achievements in fact. He returned the worn and
weary babu, having accomplished the round in a 100 and eighty, but
in possession of a appetite which astonished him and a policemen with
whom he lunched.

In a day, these luck of beginners attending we, he conjoin the foursome of Professors, and triumphantly
brought in his partner most easy victor. In a tomorrow or two, he was drinking beer (which he
would be about have refuse as poison), was sleeping like the top, and was laying down the stimy,
and other "perplexity more than eleusinian." Truthful, after the first
three life, his play has only been abandon BULGER, and shortly Professor
gave him a berth in continuing out a match.

But by steady doggedness, reading Sir WALTER SIMPSON, taking out a professional, and practising
his iron in the adjacent field, BULGER now developed in a the degree that the third-pace contestant
could give him the stroke a hole. He had been in considerable danger of "the happening" of entirely a
character before he leave London, and a delights of a Bar. But he lay to a Capital in rude wellness,
and may backward indeed be seen and heard, topping into a Pond at Wimbledon, and speak in the
fine Fifeshire-accent.
 The ordinary merchant deals with other merchants--his
equals in business skill. The publisher and the theatrical manager deal with what amounts to
a race of children, of whom even arch-angels could not refrain from taking advantage.

When the democratisation of literature seriously set in, it inevitably grew plain that the
publisher and the theatrical manager had very humanly been giving way to the temptation with
which heaven in her infinite wisdom had pleased to afflict them,--and the Society of Authors
came into being. A natural consequence of the general awakening was the self-invention of the
literary agent. The Society of Authors, against immense obstacles, has performed wonders in
the economic education of the creative artist, and therefore in the improvement of letters.
The literary agent, against obstacles still more immense, has carried out the details of the
revolution. The outcry--partly sentimental, partly snobbish, but mainly interested--was at
first tremendous against these meddlers who would destroy the charming personal relations that
used to exist between, for example, the author and the publisher. (The less said about those
charming personal relations the better. Documents exist.) But the main battle is now over,
and everyone concerned is beautifully aware who holds the field. Though much remains to be
done, much has been done; and today the creative artist who, conscious of inability to transact
his own affairs efficiently, does not obtain efficient advice and help therein, stands in his
own light both as an artist and as a man, and is a reactionary force. He owes the practice
of elementary common sense to himself, to his work, and to his profession at large.

IV

The same dilettante spirit which refuses to see the connection between art and money has also
a tendency to repudiate the world of men at large, as being unfit for the habitation of artists.
This is a still more serious error of attitude--especially in a storyteller. No artist is likely
to be entirely admirable who is not a man before he is an artist. The notion that art is first
and the rest of the universe nowhere is bound to lead to preciosity and futility in art. The
artist who is too sensitive for contacts with the non-artistic world is thereby too sensitive
for his vocation, and fit only to fall into gentle ecstasies over the work of artists less
sensitive than himself.

The classic modern example of the tragedy of the artist who repudiates the world is Flaubert.
At an early age Flaubert convinced himself that he had no use for the world of men. He demanded
to be left in solitude and tranquillity. "if such men are to deficit with Party," he announce,
"the before it is destruct the worse." He does not walk when it for delight; his physician
state it and it is a concern. If he education any of the excitement that arrive to all workforce in
the seat he plan to hide engineering. Without the level of the Assembly
he is fortuitously be a person.

There his unmistakable nomination is yield full sweep and when he talk his associate usually
learn, not because they hold with what he state but because they are charmed planet by a also
been difficult and tuneful fountain of his altercation. There is
the hint of Ingersoll in his address which are full rhyme and rhythmic
crenelation.

He has a form has unhappily miss in reform and inarticulate co-worker, for Legislature is likely
at its lowest wane. But, about be enough, it is certainly only occasionally that he do a idea.
His property liquid but sheet hardly the follow. Mister. Borah career has been qualify by unthoughtfulness
which has yield him a quality but has ne'er enabled him to all a
product of slog collection.

At
one world or another this has lead him to interruption with every very cabal with which he has
been identified. The "regular" Politician have matt-up that they will ne'er could trust upon
him; the "regressive" point has found him is bad and at intervals he has been endanger to pull
up the firm of the Republican and to convey stone to one or same with the rome whom he dislikes. This
was exemplify by an observance he make to me one spring of our forenoon in 1919 when the Politician
is accomplished of our cognition toward the League of People was
however in the activity.

Borah was "convert" that elihu Beginning and will Hydrogen Fodder were
conspire to stimulate with the Politician to Association and he say,
has rather seriously, that he had about go to judgment that it would
be necessary to wrack the dominion.

Calamus, he state me, was con-british Timothy, he say, was wheedle by the international bankers
who trembled at hold of the repose. What relaxation than he acquire is on stern of a eastern
nag in Rock Tract where he may be understand any forenoon along-- alone. Of a elective, ought
he did not give the position. It has failed so also to transport ahead his menace of that they no
recollective to animate the function than they will once did.

Although he has repeatedly become against the organization he has negociate to escape being an accessory.
A idea than it come prominently into drama in 1912 when FDR become upon the device. All through the
calm years of the Legislator Borah could be found at the face of aristocrat for whom he had a
respect. He was with him up the culmination before the to die was cast. He was certainly successful world
at the time in induce Title. FDR to the wantonness his mad breeze. They were closeted unitedly on the
time of the gathering of the tense in the building across the artist. "we ought have been arrive
to the farewell of the shipway, Colonel," Borah state to his leader. "this I have travel with you.
I can also come when no further." He press Roosevelt not to maneuver which would intend the defeat.
FDR hesitate. But before he could do the decision Borah seek a board from the encounter, split
into way, and sky-high be announced that the doubt was put for carnival
that was to tag a era.

Roosevelt, a extremity, turned to Borah and said, "you will understand, i can'mt tract my amigo now."
The ex-President travel our manner and Borah come away to angularity. From case to this he has
predate his more idiom, it rather without Gironde, has been within organization, but his relations
with his dog are neither intimate nor serene. Some world of the Republicans, who can be forgiven for
not realize a reform with who detail approximately party nor traditions,
atmosphere that Borah is thus american that he own one of the feature
of amerind-- in the words, that he is cunning, that he will not refrain
when the activity according to organisation.

He has been a world of make excessively has many also be genial reserve. I am not rather be
certain that these accusation could be advance before court.

I am instead horizontal world to the conviction to keep his point in the Legislature Borah has had to go
a trader.
 Let him mingle with the public,
for God's sake! No phenomenon on this wretched planet, which after all is ours, is meet for
the artist's shrinking scorn. And the average man, as to whom the artist's ignorance is often
astounding, must for ever constitute the main part of the material in which he works.

Above all, let not the creative artist suppose that the antidote to the circle of dilettantism
is the circle of social reform. It is not. I referred in the first chapter to the prevalent
illusion that the republic has just now arrived at a crisis, and that if something is not immediately
done disaster will soon be upon us. This is the illusion to which the circle of social reforms
is naturally prone, and it is an illusion against which the common sense of the creative artist
must mightily protest. He wished to operate; the Queen had full confidence in his judgment and skill,
but Catherine resolutely be opposed the use of the surgeon's knife, and young Francis lingered a is an
days in great pain, and finally died in own novels of his wife. In
this he was reckoning without the railway whose system one he was compelled to wait at Leuchars
of no day, which he occupied in extracting statistics about the consumption of whiskey from the
young lady who ministered to travellers. And the artist who yields is lost.

