If Shanghai thrilled us, Hongkong fascinated us, when we ascended in a railroad something like
our Tamalpais cars to the peak. To reach the very top, cozy wicker chairs, mounted on bamboo
poles, carried by two coolies, are necessary. The movement of the chair while descending reminds
one of a ride on a rather old, single-gaited horse.

Our party will always associate Macao, China, with "Dante's Inferno." To see the half-clothed
Chinese bending over their open fires in the opium factory, to see children soldering the covers
of the little boxes their brothers have just finished mixing and filling, will always be an
awful, vivid picture in our memories.

The cigar factory also seemed a fine sample of what some good people wish us to believe awaits
the wicked. Babies, not able to walk, are busy working beside their mothers stripping the tobacco
leaf from the stems.

If the cigar and opium factories shocked us, the firecracker factory appalled us. A crowd of
youngsters huddled in a tiny, filthy room filled with powder, were working with wonderful dexterity,
ceaselessly putting fuses in firecrackers. No one seemed to notice or care if a visitor might
carelessly let a light fall from a cigar or drop a match. Many of us decided that perhaps the
proverb: "If you want to make a Chinese happy, just buy him a coffin," is not so far off, because
death to many of them looks much more attractive than life. We were told that if a Chinese
falls off his sampan, his neighbor does not try to save him. That would be a "Bad Joss" as
they say and would incur the wrath of the River God, who pulled him in. Then, too, the rescuer
would have to support him for the rest of his days.

The Homeward Trip Chapter VIII

The Stop at Singapore

They say that anticipation is half of enjoyment, but the Chamber of Commerce Party never could
have imagined the pleasure we were to have in Singapore, although the expected palms waved
greetings from the shore as an indication of the tropical scenes we were to see.

We had heard it said that, "He who tries to hurry the Orient shall come to a speedy grave,"
and we thought there must be some truth in it, when at the junction of two busy streets we
saw a lazy native peacefully reposing, on his cot bed, in the middle of two lines of traffic.
Nice quiet spot for a nap, while the sun was beating down with such force that the men of the
party drew their new helmets well down over their heads. Stanley, exploring darkest Africa,
could not have heard more precautions and sunstroke warnings, than the men of this party. But
the guide-book authors do not seem to care whether the sun strikes the women or not. Guess
they believe that the women's hair will protect them, or, perhaps, it is reasoned, that as
the ships usually touch China first, (one of the greatest hair markets of the world), the women
cheated by nature, are supposed to have gotten a goodly supply before they reach Singapore.

But do not let this give our friends the idea that the women were neglected in Singapore. They
say there are only three unmarried white girls left in that city and that these are taking
their time about deciding upon which of the army of males they will select. One fine looking
chap told a group of ladies of our party that it was two months before he learned that in order
to secure dances with the popular matrons, it was necessary to phone the week before the dance
to find out whether he was to be favored with the sixth or seventh or ninth dance.

Now before any girl who chances to read the foregoing and packs her trunks for this tropical
spot, let me warn her that it is so hot that the powder stays on about as well as water on
a duck's back, and a lizard is liable to drop in her lap at any time. At least that is what
happened to the smallest debutante of our party, Miss Sallie Glide, at one of the dances given
in honor of the San Francisco Delegates. And while some of the young couples of our party were
strolling through the wonderful botanical gardens admiring the Travelers Palm, whose fan-shaped
branches are said to be the compass of the desert, as their branches always point east and
West, a family of wild monkeys (with the baby monkeys clinging to the mothers' breasts) crossed
the path. And a little further on a snake charmer giving his cobras an airing, was encountered.
If the element of danger appeals to her, then this is the place for her, for she may expect
to see one of these big snakes unaccompanied by its master at any time if she ventures in the
thicket. And just a short trip out of the city is the tiger in his native jungle. Phil Lyon
and Carl Westerfeld went on a hunt, but H. J. Judell came nearest to killing one. He shot between
the eyes, as the guide directed, but missed the brute.

The variety and brilliancy of the clothing of the cosmopolitan inhabitants rivals the scarlets
and greens of the botanical gardens. The natives, perhaps, try to make up in vivid coloring
what they lack in quantity. Others are entirely unadorned and most of the children are also naked.

Alfred Esberg, C. B. Lastrete, Dwight Grady and J. Parker-Currier were given a dinner at the
executive mansion of the English governor, Sir Laurence Guillemard. This was the first time
that American travelers were so honored.

The Chinese Chamber of Commerce gave a beautiful reception to our party. As we entered the
banquet hall, the band played the "Star Spangled Banner" and the moving picture machine recorded
our activities. Speeches were made and conditions discussed, while the champagne flowed freely.
The ladies were given orchids.

Someone remarked that the white people in Singapore seem bent on checking the over-powering
heat with internal irrigation. At eleven A. M. all assemble at a special resort for the morning
"eye-openers," between twelve and two, business stops in order to give the thirsty inhabitants
time for tiffin accompanied by a half dozen whiskeys and sodas or "gin-rickeys"; after four
all business ceases for tea, and, if the tea cup appears it is usually accompanied by a substantial
stick in it, to rouse drooping spirits. Of course during dinner and the evening Bacchus reigns.
Now, I suppose some of you understand why there are so many apparently contented men in Singapore,
in spite of the climate.

All the lovers that were accustomed to haunt the top deck, called the "Honey-moon Deck of the
Empire State," took rides through the jungle. The tropical moonlight reflecting the palms in
the rippling water and the trip through the Gap (a break in the hills disclosing the sea far
beyond, as one of the justly famous sunsets was in progress), are said to have done their work,
and four couples, the gossips say, are expected to announce their engagements. One of the ship's
wits said, "Again the dashing widows have proven far more attractive than some of their unmarried
sisters." Mrs. Carrie Schwabacher, offered a linen shower to the first couple that were married
on board, but they all seemed bashful. Louis Mooser suggested that the name of the ship be
changed from Empire State to "Vampire State."

Some of our party visited homes in Singapore and found one solution of the "servant problem."
In many cases, the mistress of the house pays a No. 1 boy, or upper servant, as you know they
call them there, a fixed sum to purchase so many meals and to take the entire responsibility
of the buying and running of the house, while she comes and goes and entertains as a guest
at a hotel. There are no unexpected huge bills at the end of the month; if the cook leaves,
why should she worry, No. 1 boy just gets another.

Chapter IX

Java

Some of the Chamber of Commerce party were frank enough to admit that their most vivid recollections
of hearing about Java were, in connection with Moca, together with eggs and toast and the usual
accompaniments of the breakfast table, but we were all in for a revelation. 'it were thus.''you
have my rescript,'was the statement.

You endure me surely.'the dances. The become to his drill, and state:'the babu. Is the he of whom
we talk? He stand to threshold, shake his noddle, at himself, pouch,
attribute, at reservation of what can be the greeting; or on his being
thus.

Do not append for fame which today pass you.'the boy, as be seemingly hearable; but faint as it there
was, of dances besides lyric,'it is!''it is already,'it answer he,
acquaintance, reception down state a Iodine-131, and there will destroy
i have to destroy potential, i desire.'i will have had the period,
i would have reply for a,'state for a, slightly.

Bedstead, i was delightful for her: the she were coldly, there is your nonaccomplishment. There
is but to become what you've. You roar her?''i today mean to do thirstily,'state the babu,
the expression, which give the prevarication.'i go the works, not
mind,'answer the Palace.'you could be done possibly of you occupy
antechamber.

Time must be so.'the miss go her desire good, him; but there was nothing antiphonal countenance;
and reply:'i might'mt hastiness; beside Manila, it say all my chance.''you
will'mt speed!'it cry no,. The knot.'wed your promise!

At way, loge-however, club, contents, to which was a brine, who sit Archangel. What-- what----
But,'he, s, it must have been a alarmism from same that it was but
drill.'Archangel Corrosion continue his dances to his foe, and implore
to cognize he can do him is a trophy of wed, point, girl whom he has
bad?'he hesitate for question; his articulator were deadly, and assume;
and receptor.

It; but he was only by masquerade; by he restart thus:'a behavior, i will not.''you had best,'state
a, high, note.

He
state:'i talk question.'of innocence; with sound while it presume by adventurousness; rust
intruder necessitate:'who are you? and correct have you with me is
listlessly?''not much correct,'it answer a;'i'thousand not even the
admirer; i'concentration.'again reply Rusting acknowledgment!'this
study postdate; and fume, seductress was mend on level, governor.

Projectile rear. Antechamber. No is my parent.'it was, i had given for dances.'he ring the buzzer,
worker.

He indicate to son, who was quake senseless stripes.'it arrive woman!'unfold to workforce who stand
in countenance, he state:'yet, i am ready!'Section twenty-seven.

What has melt at potential?

A exerciser which fret the clerestory, a stripes was called within matchboard, who procure before
kingbolt in metal, reception. He was model with border, of ammunition as array, which was pull
to it, rear is grope upon them. He unbend himself down, palace, off to point.
This prisoners in revolver; a kingpin there was unfold rearward, rear
was go in.'no one show of seat as you.

Shall desire at?''yes.'an cognition was retreat, threshold being stuff, Title. Kornicker, quality
since we see him, obviously bear the artificiality. Reply will have,
was this truthful one.



The elephant at the beautiful botanical gardens, that would go and buy himself food when given
the proper amount of money was interesting, but he was not the real attraction at Saigon. Our
party had been entertained by the Geisha girls, sung almost to distraction (you know it is
impolite for the sing-song girls of China to stop singing until requested to stop). We had
watched the dancing of the Javanese and Philippine Ballerinas, but, we had to come here to
see the real French girls. We now understand why many of our soldiers came home with French
wives - "vamp" is the only word we could think of in describing every one of them. Never before
had we seen so many picture hats.

What fun we all had airing our moth-eaten French. (Here I am not referring to the few of our
party that speak French fluently.) And it was several days before some of us stopped calling
the Chinese cabin-boys "Garcon."

Perhaps, to show that the San Francisco committee appreciated the distinction of being on board
a ship fifteen feet longer than any other American steamer to make that port, we broke off
part of the propeller as a souvenir in departing.

Chapter X

Manila

Never were more elaborate preparations made to receive our big delegation. Some said it was
a wise precaution to have the day the Philippine Chamber of Commerce were to entertain us before
the publishing of the "Wood-Forbes Report;" but after the report had been made public we found
the laughter and shouts of "Viva" (long life) from the children and the heartfelt greetings
of their elders, were cordiality and good-fellowship personified.

We were told that there were three times the number of people in Java as in the Philippines,
but that the Philippines could easily support a population of 50,000,000. We were so glad to
hear this, as there are more babies there than any other place in the Orient, with the exception
of Japan, but the Philippine babies seem to be free from the awful sores we noted on many of
the Japanese children. However, it seems that infant mortality is great in the Philippines,
on account of the improper diet of the mothers and many of the babies die, we were told, as
their mother's milk does not agree with them. One of the first orders of Governor-General Leonard
Wood was to call a meeting to check the infant mortality.

In an interview, just after the "Wood-Forbes Report" had been published, Governor Leonard Wood
said, "I look for great things from the women of the Philippines; the quicker they form a part
of the Government, the better for the Islands." He seems to feel that they are the most important
factor in the islands and considers them more dependable than the men. He told with great satisfaction
how he had arranged for Miss Hartlee Emprey (the research worker from the Rockefeller Hospital
at Peking, who succeeded in perfecting a four-cent-a-day diet for the famine-stricken in China)
to eliminate the malnutrition in the food for the young Philippine mothers and to discover
a better diet for the lepers. Governor Wood added, "I want doctors, lots of them, modern equipment'
and nurses to make more sanitary conditions. I also wish the diseases destructive to cattle
studied." There are only 930 nurses in the islands and funds and equipment are needed badly.
More doctors are needed in curing the lepers. In speaking of the present condition of the islands,
he said, "The Philippines are not ready to cut loose from the United States."

Everything was done in Manila to make us feel at home, from the moment the Reception Committee
landed on board and Mayor Fernandez handed over the keys of the city. After being entertained
by the Chinese, Philippine, Spanish and American Chambers of Commerce and being told that there
were countless dialects and language mixtures, we were not surprised that a telephone operator
must speak at least nine languages.

The Montalban Falls trip, as guests of the Philippine Chamber of Commerce, made us recall the
days of 1915, for there the same leader of the Philippine Orchestra at the Exposition, greeted
us. We passed through a flower-decorated arch and then beneath a specially constructed bower
under which were the charmingly set tables for our "tiffin."

The second day in Manila we were taken to the Pampanga Sugar Refinery. Here the men of the
party had lengthy talks with the officials, while the women of the party were being entertained
at a luncheon. The ladies were told that the American factory girl who spends the best part
of her week's wages for silk stockings has her equal in the Philippines. It seems that the
natives (yes, the men too) are so fond of showy clothing that they will go buy some fancy trifle,
when they are in need of food. Very often the employer has to feed them so as to be sure they
will have strength enough to do their work properly. It seems that many Filipinos regard the
United States as a child regards a benevolent uncle - they want their independence knowing
that the United States will get them out of any difficulty and protect them from all harm,
at the same time, letting them have their own way.

They are so quick to learn it is no wonder that many of our soldiers turned into teachers,
just as the soldiers in Russia today are repeating history in this respect.

Members of the local Chamber of Commerce told us that on account of the soil and climate, the
sugar matured in seven months instead of eighteen months necessary in the Hawaiian Islands,
and that in one day, the refinery (we inspected) could turn out 20,000 tons of sugar, enough
to supply San Francisco for one year (the help working on two ten-hour shifts and receiving
one and a half pesos a day a piece).

Although the pineapples have been imported from the Hawaiian Islands to the Philippines, they
are not subject to the blight that affects them there; they have a wonderfully sweet flavor.
An increase of a million dollars in the industry has recently been reported, our party was told.

The third day we were taken to Pagsanjan Rapids, where the party left in small canoes through
a scenic gorge. Mrs. Francis Krull, George Vranizan and Mrs. Vranizan, Mrs. Bruce Foulkes,
S. Swartz and Mrs. Swartz, Harry Dana, Frank Howlett, A. I. Esberg and his wife were all thrown
out of the boats and into the swift current, but all were rescued in time. Dr. F. E. Orella
introduced the first woman lawyer in Manila, and she addressed us in the observation car, on
the way back from the Falls.

We passed miles of beautiful groves and were told on the way back to Manila, that each tree
averaged about fifty cocoanuts a year, but that one tree has been known to yield three hundred
nuts, and that a new breakfast food, made from them, is about to revolutionize the morning
meal. Also we heard that no longer will it be necessary to go to the tropics to enjoy the mango,
for a new process has at last been discovered that will permit of their being canned. We were
told that the natives carry long knives and often use them and that someone said, "Although
they may be dressed in the latest style from toes to head, they are still savages from the
waist up." This seems difficult to believe, in spite of the numerous scars one sees, as one
could not but feel friendly toward the Filipinos. Their courtesy is typified in their road
signs that we passed, "Slow please," and after the curve was rounded, "Thank you."

We all noticed how clean and neat their appearance was. You know it is said that the Japanese
keep their bodies clean, but not their clothes, while the Koreans keep their clothes clean
(perhaps because they are white and the dirt is so evident), and not their bodies, that the
Chinese keep neither their clothes nor their bodies clean, but the Filipinos keep both, their
bodies and their clothes, immaculate.

One of our party asked one of our hosts. "Why he never said, 'right' and 'left', in directing
the chauffeur." The answer was that in the old days the footman's seat was on the left horse,
hence 'cella' for left, while the driver held his reins in his right hand, therefore 'mono'
(or hand) means right to the Filipinos.

Reese Lewellyn said, as did most of the Americans in the Islands, "That the United States should
never give up the Philippine Islands, as they are a necessary base for America's importing
and exporting." He said, "Although, before I made this trip, I was not in favor of the United
States holding outside territory, I now realize that we must keep the Philippines as an outlet
for our supplies. In a diplomatic way the Filipinos will have to be made to realize that, in
spite of the fact that they have been told they would be independent of United States, conditions
warrant our keeping them as a part of the United States."

Our first impression of the native women was that they were all going to some ball or had put
on their low-necked, transparent evening dresses by mistake. But, before any reader gets the
impression from this that they are immodest, let me hasten to add that we found that they were
exceptionally sweet and charming and are the souls of propriety. Why, even the man engaged
to a girl cannot so much as walk with her on the streets in the broad daylight, and to take
her arm - Oh, horrors! If a girl should permit two different beaus to call upon her, even if
well chaperoned, it would eliminate her matrimonial prospects, as she would then be branded
as a hopeless flirt, so we were told.

But, needless to say, the few American girls in Manila do not follow these rules, for we heard
that an engagement for tea with one masculine admirer and to watch the oily seola nuts burn
at dinner with another friend, and to attend an evening dance with a third, is not considered
unusual. After the Philippine women get the suffrage, Governor Leonard Wood seems to want them
to have, some of the ladies of our party wonder if things will not be a little different for
the native women?

We were escorted through cigar factories, hemp works, and to Bilibid Prison, where from a central
reviewing stand, the avenue of cells with the drilling space between, radiate like a great
pinwheel. 'i'll surrender a week time one head; and more at the man of the Sir will etc give myself the
apprehension.'that t shook his gain:'it can'end be done, being officer,'wished
it.'what's'the thousand for my prisoner?''a cool five hundred,'replied
a reward.



Besides the tea dance at the beautiful Spanish Club, the Governor's Reception at the Palace
(as it is called here), and the numerous dances, there was a luncheon given to our party at
the delightful Manila Hotel by the Rotary Club.

At this function the cablegram to us from Mayor Rolph was read and applauded, as were the messages
from former Manager Wood of the St. Francis, and Manager Manwaring of the Palace. After speeches
by A. I. Esberg, Byron Mauzy, C. B. Lastreto, Ex-Senator James Phelan, who had just arrived
in Manila, made a very interesting and humorous address.

