At last he spoke. 'There was a mistake, Jessie: the marks were counted up wrong, it seems,
and your brother has not been to blame, after all.'

'And not lost the "exhibition?"'

'No; his marks more than entitle him to keep it.'

'And you will let him go back next month, father?'

'Certainly. Why, my dear----' For Jessie was off like an arrow from a bow, and did not even
hear his exclamation.

He supposed she had gone to tell the others, and paused to read over the letter once more,
with deep thankfulness, and much sympathy for Cecil. It was from young Mr. Lomax, not from
the Doctor: the similarity in the handwriting had misled Mr. Cunningham. He said the mistake
had been discovered by his father, but that, as it had been made by him, he could not rest
without personally acknowledging it, and expressing his regret. He had been himself surprised,
in the first instance, at the result of his addition; but as he had only to do with Cecil in
mathematics, in which he was not remarkably proficient, it did not seem so astonishing to him
as it did to his father, who had watched the boy's progress in classics. Dr. Lomax had not
gone over the books himself at the time, but having occasion to refer to them for something
the morning of the day on which Mr. Lomax wrote, he had counted up Cecil's marks throughout
the year, just for his own satisfaction, and in doing so had discovered the mistake that had
been made. 'We have since been over it all together,' continued the son; 'and being now fully
convinced of my mistake, I hasten to apprise you of it, and to express my deep regret.' If
Cecil had seen this sentence, and some which followed, he would certainly have abandoned his
idea that 'young Lomax might have done it to spite him.'

'Mother!' called Mr. Cunningham, suddenly remembering the appointment which this letter had
made him forget for a few minutes; and as his wife came running down in answer to his call,
he went on: 'Has Jessie told you, love? I mustn't stay--but take the letter; I shall try to
get down in time to meet that poor boy as he comes out from morning school.'

'I haven't seen Jessie,' Mrs. Cunningham answered; but she seemed to guess instinctively what
the letter contained, and one glance at it confirmed her impression.

'My darling boy! oh, thank God!' she exclaimed. 'Lewis, you will bring him straight home with
you, won't you?'

'If I don't, I shall have you following me and hugging him before the whole school,' said her
husband, laughing, but almost with tears in his eyes; and he hurried away, while she went joyfully
back to the drawing-room to tell Mary and Frances the good news.

They literally 'jumped for joy;' and there was a kind of triple hug between the mother and
her daughters, from which Frances was the first to break away, crying, 'Oh, where's Jessie?
do let me tell her! how glad she will be!'

'She knows, I think,' said Mrs. Cunningham; 'it was she who brought father the letter. But
find her by all means, and Lewis too, that we may all be happy together.'

Lewis was easily found, but nothing could be seen of Jessie; and presently her little brother
was sent to the meadows where Percy was fishing, to see if she had run there with the tidings;
but there she was not, and there was some consternation at the Rectory when the fact was announced.

'I really think she must have gone to Fairview,' said Mary anxiously.

'Perhaps she thought she could overtake Cecil,' suggested Frances. And though they did not
know it, this guess hit the exact truth.

When Jessie left the study, she firmly believed that if she were only quick enough she could
catch Cecil, who was very likely to linger on his way; and she had a vision of finding him
leaning over a certain gate which opened into a harvest-field, and which was a favourite halting-place
with all the young people.

No, he was not at the gate; but Jessie, full of her one idea of overtaking him, flew on and
on till she had reached the outskirts of the town, and still she saw nothing of him--the truth
being, that not having allowed himself more than enough time for his walk that morning, he
had hurried on instead of stopping anywhere, and was in school by this time. She was dismayed
when the country road began to turn into a street, and realized for the first time how far
she had come. She had not had a thought of doing wrong when she began to run after Cecil, but
now she was struck with a sudden sense of misdemeanour, and a fear that 'mother' would be angry.

'I wonder if I ought to go back,' she said to herself, 'or whether I may just go on to Mr.
Bardsley's! It isn't far now, and then Cecil could come back with me, I daresay. Perhaps I
could still catch him just as he's going in.'

Inspirited by this thought, she began to run again, and in a little while she was standing
opposite the square brick house which she knew to be Mr. Bardsley's. There was not a sign of
a boy on the steps, nor was there any sound of voices from the playground; evidently Cecil
and his companions were already at study. She stood there, panting and weary, not very well
knowing what to do next.

CHAPTER IV.

'IT'S ALL RIGHT!'

JESSIE fancied that if she rang the bell and asked for Cecil, she should be either sent away
or shown into the great schoolroom; and the idea of facing Mr. Bardsley and all the boys seemed
to her very terrible--almost too terrible to be entertained for a moment. But then, to leave
Cecil in ignorance of the good tidings that she had run all this way to bring to him!--to let
him go on through the day still feeling himself in disgrace, and not knowing that all was explained!
No, she could not bear that either. She put up a trembling hand, and not daring to meddle with
the big knocker, which looked prepared to make any amount of noise, took hold of the bell at
the side of it, and gave a feeble tinkle, which would scarcely have been audible to the housemaid
had she not happened to be close at hand cleaning the hall lamp. She opened the door so suddenly,
that Jessie, who was prepared to wait some time, was quite startled, and so confused that she
could not say anything.

'Did you ring?' asked the maid sharply, looking down in amazement at the dusty little figure
and flushed frightened face.

'Yes; oh, please,' said Jessie, recovering herself, 'is Master Cunningham here? and would you
tell him that I want to speak to him a minute?'

'The young gentlemen are in school--they can't be disturbed now,' replied the servant, preparing
to shut the door.

'But oh, please, if you would tell him I've come with news from home, and I want to see him
so much,' said Jessie desperately; 'I'm his sister.'

The maid looked hard at her, and Jessie felt sure she spied out the gloveless hands under the
holland cape; but with as much dignity as she could muster, the child added, 'I'm Miss Jessie
Cunningham;' and something in her tone and manner must have borne out the assertion, for with
a quick 'Step in here, please, and I'll speak to Mrs. Bardsley,' the maid opened the door wider
instead of shutting it, and allowed her to enter the hall.

She then gave her a chair, and went into a room close by, from which she soon reappeared, followed
by a quiet-looking lady, not very old, but with a cap and spectacles, and something about her
which made Jessie feel quite ashamed of her own heated, untidy condition.

'You have come with a message for Master Cunningham, I understand; I trust no accident has
occurred at his home,' said Mrs. Bardsley in a voice as quiet as her face.

'Oh no! it's all good news, and I thought I should have overtaken him, but I didn't; and oh!
if you would please let me see him, and then perhaps he would come back with me.'

'I don't think he can return till after school, unless you have brought an order from his father
to that effect,' said the schoolmaster's wife; 'but come and sit down, and then perhaps you
will be able to explain yourself more fully.'

She took Jessie into a prim-looking sitting-room; and in rather a confused way the little girl
did contrive to explain what had brought her, and how important her news would be to Cecil.
'And if Mr. Bardsley would let him come back with me I don't think father would mind, and mother
would like it so much better than my going back alone. I oughtn't to have come, I'm afraid,'
she wound up, feeling every minute more and more dismayed at herself.

'I fear you must be causing anxiety at home,' said Mrs. Bardsley, still rather stiffly. 'I
will send and ask Mr. Bardsley to allow your brother to speak to you for a minute;' and she
went out of the room, leaving Jessie alone.

Some minutes passed, and Jessie grew more and more nervous; but at length appeared Cecil, looking
very schoolboyish, with a great dab of ink on his collar.

She jumped off her chair and ran to him, and got out one great 'Oh, Cecil!' and then, instead
of saying anything more, she began to sob.

'What is it? what's up?' said he in utter amazement. 'Don't cry, don't cry; is anything wrong
at home?'

'Oh no! it's all right! and you've got enough marks, and you're to go back after the holidays.
And oh, Cecil! I'm so glad! and I'm so hot, and I've run all the way!'

'And you're obliged to cry about it,' said Cecil, laughing, and kissing her. 'I say, sit down
here in this arm-chair; there, I'll fan you with my pocket-handkerchief. How's it all come
out? has the Doctor written--or what?'

'Yes, I think it was he; and father's so glad, and he said himself you should go back. He counted
up the marks wrong--not father, but somebody, you know--and you've got plenty, and you're not
a bit to blame; father says you're not.'

A sort of dancing light came into the boy's black eyes, but he didn't say a word. Jessie was
quite astonished, and a good deal disappointed, at his taking the matter so quietly.

'Aren't you glad?' she said; 'I thought you would have been ready to jump out of your skin
for joy. I was; but I came straight off, thinking I should overtake you. How fast you must
have walked to get here first! Oh, Cecil, do you think I could have a little water?'

'You're too hot to drink cold water,' said Cecil in a wise, elder-brotherly way. 'I've got
an apple in my pocket; you shall have a bit of that.'

It was rather a greenish specimen, and one bite of it more than satisfied Jessie, without refreshing
her in the least; but she sat holding it in her hand, and looking at Cecil with loving eyes,
too happy to mind much about her thirst and fatigue.

'Do you think Mr. Bardsley will let you come back with me?' she said presently.

'Not till twelve o'clock, I'm sure; perhaps he would then. Father didn't say I was to come,
did he?'

'No, I was so silly I didn't wait to ask him; he didn't know I was coming. Cecil, do you think
they will be very angry with me? I have never been so far alone before.'

'I'm afraid mother won't like it,' said Cecil; but he thought to himself that he should always
love her for it; and if he had been a girl instead of a boy, he would have told her so. 'I
must go back to study now; but I think you had better wait here, if Mrs. Bardsley will let
you,' he continued, after a minute's reflection.

'But what will they think at home? They must have missed me. Cecil, I'd better go;' and she
stood up, feeling how dreary the lonely walk back would be, with those tired feet of hers that
had run along so merrily when the thought of telling the joyful news had been the only one
present to her mind.

'There's father, I do declare, in old Mr. Rawson's gig!' exclaimed Cecil, who was looking out
of the window; and sure enough, at this moment, a funny old-fashioned carriage drew up at the
door, and Mr. Cunningham got down from it and shook hands with the owner.

He was not afraid of the big knocker, but the maid was much longer in answering his rat-tat-tat
than Jessie's feeble ring; and only a sense that they were not in their own house, and must
not take liberties, restrained the children from opening the door themselves. They could not
resist running out into the hall to meet him, thus forestalling any inquiry for them by their
immediate appearance.

'Well, Cecil!'--oh, such a different 'well' from the one that had greeted him on his return
for the holidays!--then to Jessie: 'And so you are here, little madam! Mother is making herself
quite unhappy about you.'

Before Jessie could answer, he turned to the maid, asking her to request Mr. Bardsley to see
him for a minute; and she ushered him into the sitting-room where the children had been, and
went off with the message.

Then his little daughter got hold of his hand and whispered, 'I didn't mean to vex mother;
I thought I could have overtaken Cecil. I am very sorry.'

'Well, I don't think I need tell you not to do such a thing again,' said Mr. Cunningham with
a smile, 'for the temptation is not likely to recur. These things don't happen every day; do
they, Cecil? My boy, I am sorry for this week of disgrace, and more glad than I can tell you
to find it was not deserved.'

Cecil looked down, coloured, put his hands in his pockets and took them out again, twisted
his eyes in a vain attempt to see the whole extent of the ink spot on his collar, and finally,
standing quite upright, and looking straight before him, said in a very modest and yet manly
way, 'I am glad you know that I was not really idle, father; but I didn't work so hard as I
ought the last week, and I was stuck-up and made too sure of success. I would rather you knew
that.'

Jessie, looking to see how her father took this, was struck by the shining of his eyes as they
rested on his son; but before he had time to make any reply, Mr. Bardsley came in; only, Cecil
was sure, by the way his father's hand remained upon his shoulder while he was speaking to
the master, that he understood and appreciated the frank confession, and that they should be
closer friends henceforth than ever before.

Mr. Bardsley gave leave for Cecil to return home at once; and Mr. Cunningham said he would
call again the next day, out of school hours, to explain more fully how Cecil's prospects were
altered, and 'make some arrangement.' Jessie was rather alarmed at the sound of this, but Cecil
guessed that his father meant to withdraw him from the day school, and wished to offer some
compensation for taking him away in this sudden fashion, just at the beginning of the half-year.

Spite of Jessie's tired feet, the walk back was very pleasant; and neither she nor Cecil were
insensible to the honour of having their father all to themselves, and at this unusual time
of day too. He explained that he had met their mother in the village, so anxious about Jessie,
that instead of waiting till towards twelve o'clock to go into Fairview, he had got Mr. Yorke
to finish his parish business for him, and had started off at once, accepting a lift from Mr.
Rawson by the way. And when he added quietly, 'You will take care that she is never made uneasy
again by any thoughtlessness on your part, Jessie!' the little girl answered, 'Yes, father,'
in a very subdued and humble tone, and felt quite as sorry as if he had lectured her for an hour.

'Do you think Mr. Yorke will be at home again now? Might I run in for a minute, father?' said
Cecil as they passed the curate's lodging.

'I am not sure; you can see if you like.' And Cecil did see; and finding his friend busily
engaged sermon-writing in the queer little dining-room, tarried only for a few words.

'I suppose father has told you,' he said as he burst in.

'Yes, I am so glad;' and Cecil's inky little paw was enfolded in the curate's heartiest grasp.

'I shan't forget this week in a hurry,' the boy continued; 'but I'm not so very sorry now that
it all happened. Thank you for that nice Sunday.'

He did not say, but he implied how much it had helped him through; and Mr. Yorke answered cheerily,
'I could have sympathized more if I had known all that I know now; but I don't think you wanted
pity. I believe your father's sermon showed you the way to bear your trouble.'

Cecil's cheeks were burning, and he only said shyly, 'You showed me too;' and then hastily
adding, 'I want to catch up with father before he gets home,' ran off again, after one more
hearty shake of the hand had been exchanged between them.

If the memory of pain could be effaced by after-happiness, the remainder of this day would
have amply sufficed to blot out the past week. Never did Cecil feel more glad than when his
mother kissed him, called him her own darling boy, and at his request forgave Jessie's escapade,
and gave her and Frances a week's holiday, that he might have as much of their company as he
chose. And on the following Sunday, when he took his place in the choir again, and Mr. Yorke
came to dinner at the Rectory, and all was thankful rejoicing, that sorrowful Sunday on which
he had felt as if the whole world were against him seemed already far away.

The trial was gone by, and some of the effects it had left behind it were very pleasant. But
for it, Cecil felt he never could have known Mr. Yorke so well, nor his own little sister Jessie.
They were his especial friends from henceforth, in a way which they had never been before,
even though Jessie had always been regarded by Percy and others as 'Cecil's particular chum.'
Percy himself had seemed hitherto at an immeasurable distance from Cecil, and had generally
appeared to expect to be treated with the same sort of respect as would have been shown to
a school 'senior;' but now, wonderful to relate, a change came over him, and he condescended
to unbend not only a little, but a very great deal. It actually seemed as if he had begun to
respect Cecil! No one but a schoolboy, with an admired and venerated elder brother rather given
to snubbing, can quite realize how astonishing this change appeared to the person most concerned.
For Percy to invite Cecil to come out fishing with him, in the genial tone of an equal who
really cared for his companionship, instead of ordering him in a lordly way to take his tackle
down to the river for him, was something so unexpected and flattering, that it went nearer
to turning Cecil's head than anything that had happened yet. Perhaps it really might have done
so, but for the wholesome lessons the boy had learned during his time of humiliation.

These fishings with Percy became a sort of institution during that week, which Jessie had rather
counted on for having Cecil all to herself. 'Francie doesn't care, because she wants to do
her gardening; but what made me like so to have holidays, was only that I might go about with
Cecil, and now he goes off with Percy and doesn't want me!' thought the poor little maiden,
in rather an injured way, as she sat forlornly in the wide window-seat on Wednesday morning,
watching the retreating figures of her brothers. Spite of all her unselfishness, that sense
of injury would come, and was very disagreeable.

'Who will take the boys' dinner down to the meadows for them by and by?' said her father, coming
suddenly into the room. 'I have promised them a long, uninterrupted time for their sport to-day,
because to-morrow we are all going for a picnic to the Beacon, and there will be no fishing
then. You and Francie are the two idlest folk in the house just now, aren't you, Jessie? so
suppose you turn errand-women?'

'Oh, father, are they going to fish all day?' exclaimed Jessie, jumping up when she was spoken
to, but showing no great alacrity in offering her services.

'Till tea-time, I believe, if they don't get tired of it. Do you know I am so glad of these
fishings, Jessie?'

'Are you, father?' she said, rather drearily, conscious that there was no gladness in her own
face or voice.

'Yes, because I know what a brother's friendship is worth. I believe Percy's good-natured patronage
seems to Cecil the greatest reward he has had yet for his bravery in bearing his misfortunes.'

Jessie did not like the idea much; it seemed to her that if it were true, her father and she
had both reason to feel slighted.

'Use your imagination, Jessie,' said Mr. Cunningham, smiling; 'you have plenty, I know, and
the great use of it is to help us to see things from other people's point of view. Shall I
tell you something else? I am so glad of this companionship because I believe Cecil, though
the younger, will do Percy good.'

Jessie quite understood this; her face brightened, as it always did at anything like praise
of Cecil, and she felt it very delightful to be taken into her father's confidence in such
a 'grown-up' kind of way.

'I can carry the dinner, if you like, father,' she said briskly.

'Suppose Francie and you both go, and take your own dinners as well? That will be a kind of
picnic on a small scale, almost as pleasant, perhaps, as the grand one of to-morrow. You can
come away afterwards, and leave the boys to their sport.'

Jessie looked rather cloudy again for a minute; it was so like being offered a little slice
when she had wanted the whole loaf!

Her father was standing quite near her now, and he smoothed down her hair softly with his hand,
as he said, 'Jessie, have you ever thought what a sweet and happy thing love is when it has
overcome jealousy? It is not worth very much till then.'

For one moment there was a sharp struggle within her, and then she pressed her cheek against
his arm, with a loving, grateful gesture. He had no fear that his little maiden would give
way to jealousy any longer. Now that he had given the sore feeling a name, he knew that she
would be as anxious to drive it away as he was.

