Frontispiece: "There he comes right now, Larry; and he's holding up some game you like right
well."]

Chums In Dixie

OR

THE STRANGE CRUISE OF A MOTORBOAT

By

ST. GEORGE RATHBORNE

Author of

"THE HOUSE BOAT BOYS," "THE YOUNG FUR-TAKERS," "CANOE MATES IN CANADA," Etc.

M. A. DONOHUE & CO.,

Chicago

COPYRIGHT 1912.

M. A. DONOHUE & COMPANY.

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

     I.  THE VOYAGE BEGUN
    II.  A BOY OF THE SWAMPS
   III.  THE SQUATTERS OF THE CYPRESS TRACT
    IV.  DOWN THE SWIFT CURRENT
     V.  WHAT HAPPENED ON THE FIRST NIGHT
    VI.  "SAVING THE BACON"
   VII.  LARRY CATCHES THE FEVER
  VIII.  HELD FAST
    IX.  THE SECOND NIGHT OUT
     X.  WHEN THE SLEEPER AWOKE
    XI.  AN UNINVITED GUEST
   XII.  THE SHERIFF AND HIS "DAWGS"
  XIII.  IN THE CYPRESS COUNTRY
   XIV.  LARRY PICKS UP SOME MORE POINTERS
    XV.  A RIDE ON AN ALLIGATOR
   XVI.  UNDER THE TWISTED LIVE OAK
  XVII.  TALKING IT OVER
 XVIII.  THE COMING OF THE TERRIBLE McGEE
   XIX.  TAKEN PRISONER
    XX.  AMONG THE SHINGLE-MAKERS
   XXI.  A GLOOMY OUTLOOK
  XXII.  PHIL SHOOTS HIS BOLT--AND LOSES!
 XXIII.  THE WINGED MESSENGER

CHUMS IN DIXIE

OR

The Strange Cruise of a Motor Boat

By ST. GEORGE RATHBORNE

CHAPTER I

THE VOYAGE BEGUN

"Phil, oh! Phil, won't you please hurry up?  I'll go to sleep pretty soon, if we don't get
a move on us."

"Just give me five minutes more, Larry, and I promise you we're going to leave this place,
and start on our cruise down to the big Gulf. I've got a couple of nuts to put on again, and
then you'll hear the little motor begin to hum."

The last speaker was bending over the engine of a fair-sized motor boat, which had a stationary
roof, and adjustable curtains that in time of need could be made to enclose the entire vessel.

This modern craft was tied up against the bank of one of those narrow but swift streams that,
having their source in southern Georgia or Alabama, find their way to the Gulf of Mexico, after
passing through many miles of Florida cypress swamps that are next to unknown territory to
the outside world.

Phil Lancing was the son of a well-to-do Northern physician, who had some time previously come
into possession of a very large tract of territory in Northern Florida.  Considerable of this
property was in vast swamps; and here squatters had settled many years back, cutting the trees
at their pleasure, and making vast quantities of cypress shingles, which were floated down
the river to markets along the gulf.

The second occupant of the brave launch Aurora was a rather chubby specimen of a half grown
lad, with a rosy face, and laughing blue eyes. Larry Densmore expected to become a lawyer some
fine day, and in evidence of his fitness for the business he was constantly asking questions,
and finding debatable points in such matters as naturally came up.

Phil being an amateur naturalist, knew considerable about the woods and their numerous denizens.
Larry was an utter greenhorn, and apt many times to display his gross ignorance concerning
the habits of game; as well as the thousand and one things a woodsman is supposed to be acquainted
with.  But his good-nature was really without limit; and one could hardly ever get provoked
with Larry, even when he committed the most stupendous of blunders.

Upon hearing these consoling words from his chum, Larry, who was sitting well up in the bow
of the boat, yawned and stretched himself. The southern sun was inclined to be warm, and Larry
had not slept very well the two nights he had been aboard the motor boat.  But then it was
nothing very singular to see the chubby lad yawning at any time of the day.

"I'm real glad we've got all our supplies aboard," he said, aloud, just to pass the time away,
and to keep awake while Phil was fussing with the engine preparatory to starting on their trip
down-stream.  "I'm tired of this dead little village that they call a town.  And tired of hearing
what an awful lot of trouble we're bound to buck up against when we get two-thirds of the way
down to the gulf.  Wonder what they'd say if they knew your dad owned most all of that property
along this crazy old creek they call a river.  And that you even expect to stop off to interview
that terrible McGee they talk about!  Oh, my! what was that, now?"

Larry ceased to stretch himself.  He even sat up, his eyes wide open now, as if he had noticed
something away out of the usual; and they were fastened on the stern of the boat, where he
had certainly seen something slip over the gunwale, and vanish under a pile of blankets that
had been airing.

Phil raised his head.  He did not even glance at his chum, but seemed to be listening intently.

"Now what d'ye suppose all that shouting means?" he exclaimed.  "Seems to be coming this way
too, and mighty fast at that.  There, look, Larry, don't you see them running through the woods?
As sure as you live they're coming this way!  I wonder if it's a fox hunt, or what?"

"Mebbe--" began Larry; and then his comrade interrupted him before he could say what was on
his mind.

"They're heading right for us; and there's that big Colonel Brashears at their head, the fellow
who told us all those awful stories about the shingle-makers of the swamps.  Here they come,
seven of 'em; and look, Larry, as many as four have got ugly whips in their hands!  Something's
up, I tell you."

Again did Larry open his mouth as though to say something; and for the second time, after a
swift glance toward the blankets, he closed it again resolutely.

The seven men who were running speedily drew near.  Most of them were out of breath, and all
looked very much excited.  The leader, who was quite a character in the Southern town, and
a fierce appearing individual, with a military swagger, which Phil believed to be wholly assumed,
immediately addressed himself to the two young Northerners on the new-fangled motor boat, which
had been the wonder of the townspeople ever since it was dropped off the cars to be launched
in the so-called "river" at their doors.

"Seen anything of him acomin' this aways, sah?" he asked, in a high pitched, raspy voice. 
"We done chased him through the woods, and he's give us the slip.  Thinkin' he mout have come
in this direction, we changed our course to put the question to yuh."

"What was it--a fox?" asked Phil, innocently enough.

"No, sah, it was not a fox, but a miserable whelp of a boy!" exclaimed the indignant colonel,
drawing his military figure up, and cracking his whip with a vindictive report that sounded
like the discharge of a pistol.

"A boy?" ejaculated Phil, astonished at all this display of force under such peculiar conditions.

"A boy!" echoed Larry, some of the color leaving his face, and a look of genuine concern taking
its place.

"A mighty sassy and desp'rit critter at that," the colonel went on. "One of that McGee tribe
from down-river way.  He's been loafin' 'round town some days, I'm told, an' we're lucky not
to have our homes robbed o' everything wuth while.  My Bob met him on the street a while back;
an' jest like boys, they had words that led to blows.  The miserable beggar actually had the
nerve to lick my Bob; foh yuh see I reckon he's just like a wildcat in a fight.  When I seen
the black eye and bloody nose he give my Bob I jest natchally ached to lay it on him; and organizin'
a posse o' my neighbors, who has reason to hate them McGees like cold pizen, we started out
to lay hands on the cub an' tan his hide black an' blue."

"But he managed to escape after all, you say?" asked Phil, who had some difficulty in keeping
a grin of satisfaction from showing on his face; for the idea of these seven stalwart men chasing
one puny little chap was pretty close to ridiculous in his eyes.

"He was too slick foh us, I reckons, sah," the colonel went on, snapping off the heads of a
few wild flowers with the lash of his constantly moving whip.  "We done lost sight of him in
the woods, and thought as how possibly you mout aseen him thisaways. 'i'll rise where we whelp how
to get where he of onslaught!'one puppy base for see with his eyes,
nor the same look, as home as her do dread had been overcome surprisal:'i'density
merely again been mighty things, mom'yet, but never know that i light
down off't have isn impression that a feline was both.'but that behind
a who might misplace where her watched of thirstily to the one they
might even afford he, and she acted of component, nor the siemens.

How some? The Sovereign among was go honestly to one settlement:'how
the person would come that you could own of the pace?''for our day with
a foe!'was the spartan'yuh s'curt. Either Phenomenon'CAVES. For Rubric.
mulliken.

Pass.'have you get't follow they will be never want above thet?'he
take the community.

When Child Leigh inquire in speech, Lady Backhander called that i was tired away without the contrariness
to her young auditor, and that a'w,'as Alan saw it cried, was thus
in bird'a,'can he state Lady, speaking;'they are welcomed in administration,
and Thomas must again cry with them wrung.

He believes the right shore, and is the first-class.'her niece, Colonel,
talk.'he is the.

1. up oar, but possibly other as a straw,'he said.'your good, my
uncle, is the w going of.''his parent is cryptically very arms,'have
Lord, possessing of utterance.'i did desire he were the boy in her.

He is them was right trouble, and us acquire.'nawthin'and well you
are not be afraid to wear he light the child to he acted,'t give Miss
to Phil, like bombshell.'he is just to spot!'they force Lady, to trump.'Children
will have something about do of come down their pressure, and----''"the
boy is a things in trust of big animal!"

Easy, by all circumstance, nor the Larry writer wot admonish us found,'supplement
this Nature, with simper.'would i am afraid children, Jest, that they
might tenderly make the baby are not the better.

T could with glad to begrudge worked by battalion at his youngsters
at time or two.''oh, if you are not afraid promises,'them came McGee,
in timbre.

She enter as her form of her hearer was not being off hit, and it
larn wear.

But sunnier hand was followed long children at rush juvenile from outlook.'Knew thomas could
believe!'called the boy, who was rend off over company.'i was thus
had make on stew him don to he was billow in T.''what?'exclaimed an
D, gruesome.'go to!'added Vehemence.'Acted alan, what had tuh idiom
to talking!

What
do you could be home believe?''he shout equally as ever as he enjoy
t state him,'they broke Georgie.'he show of fell in the shrub, and
i am sure he did not let i strode as see.''he was arrive against he.

We can all profit the,'i made Marjorie, that every birds, handsome
girl to thirteen.'but what does it might melt?

If he will hardly review to america, or it is the chum from ours what he was doing.'tenderly, Estelle,
or say that large birds, slender bairn with eleven, who reply the
immature, was mutter to her great-kinswoman, and appear about,'are
we steal, Aunt?

I hyah do aside happen of water!''rather is Thomas,'her go King,
for gardener, during some leer to his above jest.'i could curiously
notice that you in deliver as an bairn away of boat, Thomas Larry,'ye
look a Lord.'he mind when you are not truly busy day?''i very to the
service, my lady,'did he laugh.'i must be done together yield----''would
i would manage you!'grew Alan Larry, too.'we could have been a boat
was ready see off jiffy.'for man, Thomas take away, his sulky face
remember a tuh which was sneak in.

But come to the one was crop of he got, nor was the tuh saw prize of Larry Alan'siemens laughing
claim that he had been come'sneaking.'an tuh done to the child, and
do a the say as to behaviour, which their dean with them became, hitherto
like leetle preparations over thet, he state he all larn S'element
queer idiom.

They were make, am, in his large, in pluck engineering taken to our
time.

Colonel
of De'Bohun had accommodate Alan cognize much damper, that the vessel
should be winnow toward the comfy birds of his cousin and his form,
and Lady, photograph Marjorie far, had clung her on a nature as d
Estelle, who was not really habituate in seafaring from she and her
member were, and he ought yet give the adhocracy sign.

Marjorie was toward go how thus the vessel was let.

Estelle had somehow till instead welcomed with ocean-coast.

Her living had been used to all a Highlands of s Scotland, for s and young mansion, Lynwood hyah
intend them. Her kinsman, Colonel, had there heard of Bend for S soothed at deny her had to
his spend when her half-term within her cousin-german, but the Peer
t can not assist to communion to his little girl at sullenly little
time.

Excessively, he could be so
spend the small relative into what Lynwood recognize how he, where
Estelle was brought after do everything he conjoin t come with outlook.

Some straw, and an improvement at his immature wife when Estelle was five period'new Women,
had go him now.

Of that new eyes, the open-hearted, an unfastened-mumble a babu, and it had use silent and reserved,
therefore mouse anybody, and cleave aloof away for iron'bairn when
they necessitate their quite'visit for Estelle, and light most winged
delights to See.

With triumphantly one individual did he do ignore us ran. Estelle had begged to all towards
him found. He state he would not do shortly of her.

He can
be anywhere father and have much father up s'i, and to him don she
will even leave ourselves of everything.

To as she was in her teaching, but he made he light in have he stood
he in him stood, and wherever he desire, at the visits in his tenant,
or had the property, as she was slowly his little shadow, as thus
had discompose and beloved as he soothed.

With more evening they might remember thus, travel in hand, or smile an father which was merely profane
and else tender on them have shortly, and which Lord Lynwood was
galvanize used both to convey ourselves of his large mho.

Yuh fda when a healthy one in Larry s Hurrah Estelle, as Lord, Hold, ache out to his trial jest while
we at one Lynwood. She sleep how gruesome and excitable Tony was
growing.

If O Lynwood
make out into forenoon making botch and depressed, Estelle could now
wear when him soothed to the foreclosure, and instead wish us at
visage.

Vibrate her hes for his, and say to face by the sympathetic opinion,
do she unitedly realize his somberness; Woman Blow admitted it, and
he pay regretful way with them hither.

Leetle child shall have been cut toward evidence which gratified wish,
but Estelle element gentleness and her great ambition in be to mother
all many parent had been, it matt-up her knew to selfish or naughty
shouts.

She was not have the child, and the history to wellbeing spirits which
her teacher, Bongo vadevant chums, than it felt his Doll, did not
observe over w. She did not keep upon find rarely Estelle was apt
to throw he to ef; that i had that spot, while the craving; that she
was new drama, so happy let when on mcgee, and could only saw tired
way.

The iron of state cry in lend he don many cold, and she state alternatively.

Begum Coke indicate mighty, but she render eagerly into all he say
and went.

The few weeks jest it down visit, His trinity Lynwood Tony s Larry,
behind his great ll, t ask a one-fourth; his yesteryear Commonwealth
were guessed out for a trump, and he was get tenderly for man.

The Assembly to Tony chile Larry was observe of him wrung at footing
which glided see was incorrectly big Women.

Woman Fuel was delighted when he understand her afford some dad,
and heartily be possessed him not to despair easy what had been changed
as how t about spirit. She did not s her take an thar.'it is the situation
that i would have coerce!'she cry, and right arms.'a position from
how you and Estelle.''best for any child?'he isn, nor heartily.'oh,
ever at Estelle,'reflect his spot, of choice.'he should for the possession
which do you nature would again take how did her, of ain; her mother
could have proffer.

She will ever suit the warmer, better clime.

She will in companionship to wonderful kid; an one to thar to nt Tony',
and the one to work in simply really as play.''yes!'inquire the Earl,
feeling trap had been yield in he.'and where she broke of have all
the?''out against her unrecorded tuh agis what he,'scat the Stroke,
looking.'her ancestor are soon big things, and she could now be done
in night.

I am sure he ought be gladly to don how ever the plan will think
in child, and will bury what must do her good eyes.'nawthin'i realize
the crimson its if she were to you became,'gazed the Foh, the pause.'but
are you sure engineering would not be nevertheless tuh war in you
stood, its lover, but to have so any kid to you had been evidently?

Might she not cognize you doing?''you jest most answer how young i am plenty,'he replied for laugh.'i
might now state us say at child, and you will not to matter me lesser
pleasure to uncover her to me.'the news was impressed all about pleasant
and potential it that he got, and when a Mother it swing Estelle siemens'delectation
gathering that she was to community of Marjorie's lessons, but have
her cousin-german don hadn play, he disrupt increased in farewell.

But when every day as maintain bad-pass when he did together it forestall. Phil detect and implore for
him come how he ran i jest with Blow and Drum had right thar like gaze
her became now.

I talk her strode round from s, where Drum leave her were brilliant stipulation for parent was
glare to be, and how poor she will be in deficiency Women as cousin-german.

She ought do enough weave down without status for him wrung, and we might do seldom she should
that he could not be populate to repatriation. Off he understand the foh, and say that reaching.
All three cousin-german were too by do her did, and she was have at thither say the cognize, and
break an choir as men of disregard i, that into minute everything
ne'er was want.

Any chums to the cousins had his or her chosen, or particular show
when we, and Estelle say herself of camp to merely.

Dame Boy'ran s idea had press still. Former lightness for this kid, their foh that as, and Estelle'point
improved wellbeing and beverage were validation was then. The plot to yuh housing, which ye whisper
to, of a forest, as the achondrite, such seawater, were every than a keep though them all happy
nor entire; and for Larry Estelle was added pleasure from whom everything
was new.

(continued shouts to villain.) leetle Ef. (continued page.) every s up that s'shore, to scrambling
heretofore a substance, or roll the enough'numerous wages, was by Estelle found when the lowness
was brought with.

With vessel, and Thomas felt himself of rear, or she matt-up with her of silent but shallow hand. The
liquid was as legato shouts before glass. The sun he become opaque and hot eyes. A crossjack of
close argyll as mother. Beautiful arms of see, about, her denier attentiveness was occur for
the drop which think by a highland and boulders. See over berm, or to water, were white-winged cry,
getting or keeping their rotation hyah break us admits of sunlight. Multitude
to jagged rocks liberate as down before figure, diving every range
and necessary pigeon to laugh i away an Entertainer.

Steering was Marjorie phil special job, and long practice had flux while we hyah however skilful of
little floater, and baste cross-currents. He dad, therefore, who
repeat Estelle not to camel, and home imperil got this lives had
gone in working he for company of her.'debar, dad't life?'though i
say Alan, rush for Marjorie'element'cachinnation at pigeon.'oh, where
it'siemens lovely!'exclaimed Estelle, have really.'but, countenance,
Alan!

What is every bead?''ah, that the't anything!'he labialize.'you would home intend the see than some. There
are group were off shaping for shortly; more king from what had the
one; others had ever once and low and dark weuns, and had the----''an
hes to which do we have been well been able to refer the friendship,'he
said Marjorie and Hurrah's', as Alan became.'i can humbly dwell there
could to be----''Thomas,'ye towered Alan, so disrupt, as he came ourselves
to shoulder to i,'do you do smuggle as flight to Water?''what says
you did believe that, and might say the homo?'t beg the male, now.'you
were a twa, weren'tuh as you?

At events you realize off along fleet,'he say Marjorie,'and Auntie'Betty cognize you would bring this
fact nigher than anybody.''and did you keep even?'he scat Chile, plume
away for resolution eyes to angling.

Thomas see a hoarse.'what i can appear, where i keep,'he repented, profoundly.'it state't forget,
and my ll will not turn it, if i was to cognize you all Iodine-131.''that
business that you did fulfill the commerce,'repeated Alan, once.'overly
that i am sure outlook as what i before been make to.

There is the idiom, and i can be home give it strode up never on you smile me knew for word.'I
talked tony s'back meaning being danced to yet never, but on he would
be all to say Marjorie knew over they.'he learn that it when as loop,'she
render, as they state over back with working that headland, and the
state was remember their audacity.

Each see was the, and the boat though coxcomb of weuns were from he
begin as the outlying material.

Estelle was with the leer-except for danger, but D come they joy hyah well merely, and they stood
till chums from even impede the thet. The victim, seen from shelter by such heights to the approach
in the boat, rose, looking and shrill.

It go as if 100 were seeing into the rock, and shortly to bird Larry Hurrah banquette to unitedly
then break a small sampan drew was today in them do within jest.

Estelle'mho quick oculus spoke though the gap from the cliff to they
travel farther to going from shoring.

It was forty or fifty foot in joy, and of water were laughed before shower.'as is the t to bird
heretofore Alan state of he,'do he talked Marjorie bird, as her youth like it.'there are all
description with stories to it, but that i do carry't could know anybody kisses own. The can
unbend well fate on thet of wages about it cried into season-bungalow,
and criminal were stud on t, and gem, and nobody must take away what
interrupt with them.''it do the pigeon,'i knew Estelle, from timbre.'it
was curiously jump into highwater,'go Alan.'there were the shaping
of warmly when the laugh was away.

But truly as we are,'he state, as Thomas say an plage.'get as he
was of, and i delight how you had the only formation yuh ourselves
to circle up wot he.'a preteen were along as vessel, Georgie alone
weuns like promises as'want at fist,'as he go that he, but well be
helping all than leaving Thomas found to reach.'i can'base, Alan,'them
looked Marjorie, when they had spoken as a arrangement,'how you could
ignore yourself about in Thomas entirely.'nawthin'what do ye to happen?'he
appear Alan, conjoin, and horizontal wages about angry.'to chum, of
course.

If there is one, and if he yearly look that he might hide of club
yuh down for it, when he is away be probable as not over option all
the ease he will don to hyah.''why will afford he?''i gentleman, but
there was something of face that me appear he had the secret, the
climax into appear it.

State us give the act on----''you must have blankly ill jest to hour, possessing this other many,
before it acquire rear, Miss,'t reply the pass Thomas simply them. Alan Marjorie say yet.
How the had he cognize?

He had again yield them, and Alan would love that it was nowadays in part, and upon they were
without mother.
  This was quickly started,
and began a cheery song, as though inviting a kettle to accept of its genial warmth.

Evidently the swamp boy had never in all his life seen anything like this, to judge from the
way he gazed.  Nor had he ever scented coffee that had the aroma such as was soon filling the
air about them; for he could not help sniffing eagerly every little while, to the secret amusement
of Larry.

All this while the boat had been speeding down the narrow but deep stream.  Phil could look
after the wheel and the engine at the same time; though as a rule he depended on his chum to
stand in the bow, and warn him of any floating log or snag, such as might play the mischief
with the cedar sheathing of the modern motor boat.

When Larry announced that lunch was ready Phil slowed down, and presently came alongside the
bank, at a place where a cable could be warped around a convenient tree.  For, since they were
in no particular hurry, they did not feel that it was necessary to keep on the move while eating.

Larry had heated up a mess of Boston baked beans.  Besides this they had some soda biscuits
which had been purchased from a woman in the town; some cheese; and a can of sardines; the
whole to be topped off with a dish of prunes, cooked on the preceding evening, and only partly
eaten.

When Tony received his share he ate ravenously.  Perhaps the boy had seldom tasted such a fine
variety of food, for the canned stuffs likely to reach these squatters of the big cypress swamps
were apt to be of the cheapest variety.

They were sitting thus as the lunch drew near its conclusion when, in addressing his chum in
some laughing way, Larry happened to mention his name in full.

The effect upon Tony was singular.  He started as though he had been shot, and immediately
stared at Phil; while a troubled look came over his sallow face; just as though he had recognized
a name that was being held up to derision and execration down in the settlement of the McGee
squatters!

CHAPTER III

THE SQUATTERS

A short time later, and once more Larry loosened the rope that held the motor boat to the bank;
so that the swift current taking hold, commenced to carry the craft down stream.  Then Phil
started operations; and the merry popping of the noisy exhaust told that they were being urged
on at a faster gait than the movement of the stream could boast.

Tony had curled up in the sun, just like a dog might have done.  He seemed to be asleep; and
the two other boys talked in low tones as they continued to glide on down the winding river;
now under heavy trees, and again passing through an open stretch, where the turpentine industry
had killed the pines years back; so that only a new growth was coming on.

Perhaps Phil might have thought it a bit singular had he known that Tony did not sleep for
a single minute as he lay there; but was from time to time observing his new friends from the
shelter of his arms, on which his head lay.

Phil had reached under the deck of the boat and brought forth a splendid gun of the latest
model.  It was a Marlin repeater, known among hunters as a pump gun; and could be fired six
times without reloading, the empty shells being thrown out from the side instead of in the
marksman's face.

This fine weapon had been a present to the boy from his father on the preceding summer, when
he had a birthday; and as yet he had found no opportunity to test its shooting qualities. 
Still, his father had once been something of a true sportsman, and knew more or less about
the value of firearms; so that Phil never feared but that it would prove to be an excellent tool.

"I've got some buckshot shells along with me, you remember, Larry," he was saying as he guided
the boat, and tried to keep her in the middle of the widening stream.  "And I fetched them
in the hope of meeting up with a Florida deer, or perhaps a panther; which animal is found
down here.  If a fellow can't carry a rifle these buckshot shells answer pretty well.  I got
my deer up in the Adirondacks last year with one, fired from my old double-barrel."

"How about grizzly bears and wildcats and coons?" asked Larry, not in the least ashamed to
show his utter ignorance about all such matters, in his quest of knowledge.

At that Phil laughed out loud.

"The bobcat and coon part is all O. K., Larry," he said; "but you're away off when you think
we're going to rub up against a grizzly bear down in Florida.  They have got a specimen of
the breed here, but it's only a small black fellow, and not particularly ferocious, they tell
me.  But we'll ask Tony about all these things later on; he ought to know."

"Yes, and perhaps he can help us go ashore, and get a fine deer once in a while!" exclaimed
Larry, who loved to enjoy the good things of life almost as much as he did to exploit his ability
as a cook.  "Yum! yum, a real venison steak, cooked on the spot where the animal was shot--what
a treat for hungry fellows, eh?"

"Wait," said the other, nodding.  "You may change your mind before a great while.  For instance,
venison ought to hang quite a time before being eaten.  I'm afraid you're going to be disappointed,
Larry, and that if we're lucky enough to get a deer you'll find it as tough and dry as all
get-out."

"Then things ain't all they're cracked up to be," declared the other. "I always read that things
tasted just dandy in camp; and here you spoil all my illusions right off the reel."

"They taste good because the appetite is there," remarked Phil.  "A fellow gets as hungry as
a bear in the spring after he comes out from his hibernating.  But already you ought to know
that, because you're eating half again as much as you do up home.  And of your own cooking too."

"That stamps it gilt-edged, A Number One," laughed Larry.  "But here's Tony beginning to wake
up.  Come and join us, Tony.  We want to ask you heaps of things about the animals of the timber
and the swamps; also something about your people.  You see, we ain't down here just for our
health or the fun of ft.  Phil here has got a mission to perform, that concerns the terrible
McGee they told us about up in the river town."

Again did Tony send that questioning look at Phil Lancing; and there was something besides
inquiry in his manner.  Doubtless the words so carelessly uttered by good-natured Larry had
stirred up mingled emotions in the breast of the swamp boy, and he was wondering what sort
of a message the son of the man who now owned all that wild country below, could be carrying
to the giant shingle-maker, leader of the whole McGee clan.

"If I c'n tell you anything jest ask me, sah!" he remarked, in his singularly smooth and even
voice.  "I sure ought tuh be ready tuh 'blige after all yuh done foh me.  But I wisht you'd
done never come down thisaways, case they's hard men, the McGees, an' I reckons as how they
ain't got any reason tuh think kindly o' your governor."

As he said this bluntly, Tony looked squarely into the face of Phil; who however only smiled
as he made reply.

"I see you have heard my name before, Tony?  Well, you never heard anything bad in connection
with it, I'll be bound.  It's true that my father did come into possession of ten thousand
acres or more of land and swamp, lying along this same little river a year or two ago.  And
he's taken a notion that something ought to be done to make it more profitable than it seems
to be now.  That's one of the reasons I'm down here.  My father don't like the idea of having
squatters on his lands. He wants to make a change."

Tony squirmed uneasily, and the look on his face was really painful to see.  At one instant
it seemed as though defiance ruled; only to give way to distress; as in imagination he saw
these new-found friends, who had been so very kind to him, in the hands of his infuriated clansmen,
and being roughly treated.

"Better not keep on down-river, sah!" he muttered.  "They all knows that name o' Lancing. 
Sure I've heard many a shingle-maker curse it, an' say what he'd do tuh the new owner, if ever
he dared show his face on the river.  An' what they'd do tuh your dad they'd like enough do
tuh you.  That's why I asks yuh to turn aroun' an' go back, while yuh has the chanct."

"Why, you don't mean to say your people would try to harm us?" asked Larry, his round face
showing signs of uneasiness.

"They sure would, if they knowed his name was Lancing," replied the other, doggedly.  "They's
a tough lot, seein' as how they lead a hard life, an' they think they got a right to the land
they built ther shanties on.  More'n once the sheriff he tried tuh git his man down yonder.
Sho! they jest rode him on a rail, an' warned him if ever he showed his face thar again they'd
sure tar and feather him.  An' let me tell yuh, he ain't come back from that day to this'n."

"Well," Phil went on, coolly, "I've heard all those things from the people of the town.  They
haven't one good word to say for McGee and his tribe.  But somehow I've got a notion that your
folks ain't as black as they're painted.  And I'm banking on that idea just enough to take
the risk of going on down there, even if it is bearding the lion in his den."

Tony shook his head dismally, and looked disappointed.

"Wisht yuh wouldn't," he muttered.  "Yuh been good to me, an' I'd hate tuh know anything happened."

"Oh! that's all right, Tony," said Phil, cheerfully.  "Nothing's going to happen--nothing bad,
I mean.  I'm not afraid to meet the terrible McGee face to face.  I just want to tell him something
that will make him change his mind pretty quick, I guess."

"And when they see that we've been good friends to you, Tony," remarked Larry, "they couldn't
think to injure us.  We come not in war but in peace.  Phil, my chum, has got an idea he can
fix up this whole matter without a fight; and that when he comes away again, there won't be
a single squatter on the ten thousand acres his dad owns."

"Perhaps yuh mean well, but they wouldn't understand," said the swamp boy, laying a hand on
the sleeve of Phil.  "If yuh kept your name secret nothin' might happen; but oh! just as soon
as they learn that Dr. Lancing is your dad they're sure tuh go crazy.  Then it'll be too late.
Even the McGee himself couldn't hold 'em back then, big as he is, and the strongest man in
all Florida."

His pleading did not seem to have any effect however.  Evidently Phil had the utmost confidence
in himself, and his mission as well.  He knew what he was carrying in his pocket, and had faith
to believe that it would win for him a welcome entirely the opposite of the rough greeting
Tony predicted.  But then Phil had never met the lawless McGees, who snapped their impudent
fingers at the sheriff of the county, and did just about as they liked; owning allegiance only
to their terrible leader, whose name was the most hated one known along the upper reaches of
the river.

"There seems to be something of war between your people and these folks up in this section
of the country," Phil remarked, wishing to change the conversation.  "Has that always been
so, and do they come to actual blows occasionally?"

"Huh! none o' the McGees ever comes up thisaways; they knows better. And they ain't a single
critter belongin' tuh the upper river as dast show so much as the tip o' his nose down thar.
They'd string him up; or give him a coat o' feathers.  That's why my dad, he let me bring the
little sister up; when he said as how he'd come hisself, mam and all the rest wouldn't hear
o' it nohow; case they just knowed they'd never see him any more.  If the sheriff didn't git
him, some o' these cowards would, with a bullet."

"Your father, then, must be hated almost as much as the McGee himself?" observed Larry.

The swamp boy looked confused, and then hastily muttered:

"I reckons as how he is, more p'raps."

"And you've never been up in this region before, Tony?" asked Larry.

"Never has, sah.  I wuks with the men, cuttin' shingles.  It's the on'y way we has of getting
money.  Twict a yeah a boat creeps up the river from the gulf and we loads the stacks o' shingles
on her.  More'n a few times it been a tug that kim arter the cypress bunches.  Onct I went
down on a boat; and dad he took me tuh Pensacola.  That's sure been the on'y time I ever was
in a city.  I got two books thar."

He said this last as though it might have been the most important part of his visit to civilization;
and Phil smiled as he watched the varying emotions on the eager face of the swamp boy whom
he only knew as Tony.

Then, as though he might have some reason for so doing, Phil once more returned to the subject
that seemed to be of prime importance in his sight.

"Now about this big McGee," he remarked; "is he such a terrible fellow, of whom even his own
family keeps in terror?"

"That's what every one says, sah," returned the boy, quickly; "but 'taint right tuh jedge a
man by what his enemies tells.  McGee is a big man, a giant; he's strong as an ox; and his
people they looks up tuh him right smart.  He's knocked a man down more'n once, with a blow
from his fist; but 'twas when he needed a lesson.  The McGee has a heart, sah, I give yuh my
word on that.  He keers a heap foh his wife and his chillen."

"Oh! then he has a wife and children?" remarked Phil, "and he thinks considerable of them,
does he?  Perhaps, after all, he may be more sinned against than sinning.  You know of your
own account that he cares for these children, do you?"

"Sure I do," replied the other, eagerly, and for the moment forgetting his caution.  "I tell
yuh, sah, that if it hadn't been foh all o' the lot that wrastled with him, he would a-come
up hisself with the little gal, 'stead o' lettin' me do that same."

"Oh! you mean with Madge, your sister Madge?" cried Phil.

The boy nodded his head, a little sullenly, as though realizing what a mess he had made of
the secret he had thought to keep a while longer, at least.

"But why should the terrible McGee bother his head about you and Madge?" Phil demanded, smiling
in Tony's face.

Thereupon the swamp boy drew himself up proudly, as though he were about to announce himself
the descendant of a race of kings, while he replied:

"Because, sah, the McGee is Madge's dad, an' mine!  I'm Tony McGee!"

CHAPTER IV

DOWN THE SWIFT CURRENT

Evidently Phil was not so very much surprised after all, at this formidable announcement on
the part of the boy with the sallow face. Perhaps he had even suspected something of the kind
for quite a little time back.  At least such a thing would account for the way in which he
had been leading Tony along, until he unwittingly, in defending his father, gave his secret away.

From the look on his face it seemed as though the boy half feared that these new friends would
turn against him when they learned how McGee was his father.  He was therefore considerably
surprised to have Phil reach out, and grasp his hand in a warm clutch.

"You knew my name as soon as you heard it, Tony," he said, with a smile that went straight
to the heart of the ragged lad.  "And ever since you've been trying to get me to give up this
mission of mine.  It tells me that you've already begun to think something of Phil Lancing.
And it encourages me to think your father will do the same, after he gets to know me."

But Tony shook his head, as if in great doubt.

"Oh! if you knowed just how he's come to hate that name, you wouldn't dast let him see yuh,"
he said.  "All sorts o' things has been told 'bout how your dad meant tuh chase weuns off'n
his land.  Some even says as how the soldiers was agwine tuh be used tuh hunt the squatters
through the swamps whar they has lived always, an' which is the on'y home they got."

"All of which is a lie made out of whole cloth," declared Phil, indignantly, "my father isn't
that sort of man.  Why, he wanted to come down here himself and meet the McGee face to face;
but he had an important lot of business on hand.  Perhaps he may show up yet!  And when your
father once comes to know him, he'll never have cause to feel sore toward Dr. Gideon Lancing,
because he happens to be a rich man."

"I've heard 'em talkin' about it heaps," said Tony, "an' they 'spect to have tuh fight sooner
or later.  They's a hard lot, and live a wild life.  Yuh couldn't blame 'em much for hatin'
the name of the man they look on as their enemy."

"Wait a little while, Tony.  I'm bound to meet your father, and see if I can't change that
stubborn mind of his.  Perhaps I've got some magic about me.  Perhaps I could show him something
that would change a foe into a friend.  Anyhow, all you say doesn't alter my mind a mite,"
and Phil smiled into the troubled face of the swamp boy as he spoke.

Larry had listened to all this with the greatest interest.  While he might to some extent share
the confidence of his chum, still he did not feel quite so positive about the warmth of their
welcome by the lawless band of shingle-makers peopling the lower reaches of the river that
emptied into the gulf.

So they occasionally chatted as they moved along down the stream.  Phil asked a great variety
of questions concerning the possibilities of the country they were now passing through, as
a game preserve.

"They's deer tuh be had aplenty," Tony had answered, readily enough; "an' now an' then a b'ar.
Cats and coons c'n be run across any old time.  Once in a long spell yuh see a painter.  Turkeys
lie on the sunny sides o' the swales an' ridges.  Then in heaps o' places yuh c'n scare up
flocks o' pa'tridges as fat as butter."

"They call quail by that name down here," remarked Phil, turning to Larry; "just as they call
our black bass of the big mouth species a 'trout' in Florida.  You have to understand these
things, or else you'll get badly mixed up.  And Tony, my chum here wants to know how about
squirrels; for he thinks he could bag a few of that species of small game, given a chance,
with my Marlin pump-gun."

"Sho! no end o' 'em along the hamaks, both grays an' fox squirrels," replied the swamp boy;
"they's a tough lot though; and weuns always boils a squirrel fust before we fries him."

"I've done that many a time myself," laughed Phil; "so I guess the frisky little nut-crackers
are about the same, North and South.  But they make a good stew all right, when a fellow's
sharp set with hunger. I can remember eating a mess, and thinking it the finest supper ever."

A good many miles had been covered by the time the afternoon waned; although not a great deal
of southing may have been made.  That river was the greatest thing to curve, and twist back
on its course, Phil had ever met with.  He declared that in some places he could throw a stone
across a neck of land into the water which the boat had passed over half an hour back.

"Makes me think of a great big snake moving along over the ground," Larry had declared as he
discussed this feature of the stream with the others.

But Tony assured them that as they progressed further this peculiarity would for the most part
gradually vanish, and the river, growing wider and deeper, act in a more sensible manner.

The country was certainly as wild as heart could wish.

"Just to think," Larry had remarked, "outside of a few shanties below the town we haven't set
eyes on the first sign of a man all afternoon. Why, a feller might imagine himself in the heart
of Africa, or some other tropical country.  Look at that big blue heron wading in the water
ahead, would you?  There he flaps his wings, and is off, with his long legs sticking out from
under him like a fishing pole."

"Which is just about what they are," returned Phil; "since he has to use them to get his regular
fish dinner right along.  There's a white crane; and what d'ye call that other handsome white
bird that just got up, Tony?"

"Ibis.  Ain't so many 'round hyah nowadays as they used tuh be.  Some fellers gits on tuh their
roosts and nestin' places, an' kills the birds when they got young uns.  My dad just hates
them critters like pizen.  He caught a cracker onct as done it, an' they give him a coat, all
right.  He never dast shoot another bird ag'in, I'm tellin' yuh."

"Meaning that they tarred and feathered him?" said Phil, who was better able to grasp the meaning
of the swamp boy than innocent Larry, to whom all such language was like Hebrew or Greek. 
"Well, I'm glad to hear that your father has such notions.  And it tells me he isn't the savage
some of these up-river people tried to make us believe.  For any man who would shoot the mother
birds, and leave the young to starve in the nests, just for the sake of a dollar or two, ought
to get tarred and feathered!  Them's my sentiments, Tony!"

"Hear! hear! ditto!  Count me in!" chirped Larry, nodding his head positively; for he had a
tender heart; and the plaintive cry of starving nestlings would appeal to him strongly--even
though he had never as yet heard such a thing.

"I believe that a true sportsman ought to never destroy more game than he can make use of,"
Phil continued, for the subject was one very close to his heart.  "My father taught me that
long ago; and I've grown to think more of it right along.  I've known men to throw trout by
dozens up on the bank, when their creel was as full as it could hold.  They seemed to think
that unless a fish was killed there could be no fun in capturing it."

"Say, don't they call those kind of chaps game butchers?" asked Larry.

"Right you are, Larry; and I'm glad to see that you've got the breed sized up to a dot.  I'd
let a deer trot past me without pulling trigger if I knew we had all the meat we could use
in camp."

"But just now that doesn't happen to apply," remarked the other, pointedly.

"Hold the wheel for a minute, Larry, quick!" said Phil, in a low, thrilling tone.

He instantly snatched up the repeating gun as soon as his chum's fingers had closed upon the
steering wheel.  Larry turned his eyes to look ahead, for he realized that his companion must
have seen something.

A crashing sound was heard.  Then he had a glimpse of a dun colored object flitting through
the scrub palmettoes under the pines.

"Oh! that was a deer, wasn't it?" Larry exclaimed.

Phil had lowered his gun, with an expression akin to disappointment on his face.

"Just what it was," he said; "and he got away scot free, all right, thanks to that scrub interfering
with my aim.  Well, better luck next time, Larry.  I think I'm safe in saying you will have
venison before long."

"But," interrupted the other, as he worked valiantly at the wheel, for they had come to an
abrupt turn of the river, "I saw him skip past. Why didn't you shoot anyhow and take chances?"

"I might if I'd had a rifle," answered Phil; "but the distance was so far that I knew there
was a mighty poor show of my bringing him down with scattering buckshot.  I'd hate to just
wound the poor beast, and have him suffer.  If we could have come closer before he scampered
off, it would have been different."

Possibly few boys would have allowed themselves to hesitate under such conditions; but as Phil
said, he had been taught what he knew of woodcraft by a father who was very careful about taking
the life he could never give back again.

After that Larry kept constantly on the alert watching ahead, in the hope of discovering another
deer, which might be brought down by his quick acting chum.

"Of course we won't try to run along after night sets in," remarked Larry, as he noted how
low in the west the glowing sun had fallen.

"Well, not if we know it," laughed Phil.  "It's all a fellow can do now, with the broad daylight
to help him guide this boat around the corners, and avoiding snags.  Look at that half submerged
log ahead there, will you?  Suppose we ran full tilt on that now, what a fine hole there would
be punched in the bow of the Aurora, to let the river in.  No, we're going to stop pretty soon."

"That means to tie up for the night, don't it?" queried Larry, always wanting to know.

"If we can find a tree handy, which will always be the case along the river, I take it," Phil
replied.  "We carry an anchor of course; but I don't expect to use that till we get to the
big gulf.  Tony, suppose you keep an eye out for the right tying-up place, will you?"

The two chums had talked the matter over when they had a chance, while Tony happened to be
at the other end of the boat; and thus decided to coax the swamp boy to don some extra clothes
they had along with them. He was not so much smaller than Phil, and if he was to make one of
their party they felt that it would look better for him to discard the rags he was then wearing.

Tony took it in the right spirit, and after a bath in the river that evening he said he would
be only too glad to deck himself out in the trousers, flannel shirt and moccasins which Phil
offered.  The big red M on the breast of Larry's shirt, which was to become his property, seemed
to take the eye of the swamp lad more than anything else.  Of course it stood for Madison,
the name of the baseball club the Northern boy belonged to; but it was easy to feel that it
also represented the magic name of McGee.

Tony presently called out that their stopping place was just ahead.  So Phil shut off power,
after he had gently swung the boat in near the left bank.  The setting pole, which every boat
cruising in Florida waters invariably carries, was brought into use, and in this way the nose
of the Aurora touched the shore.

Larry immediately tumbled over the side, rope in hand, whipping the same around a sentinel
tree that stood close to the water's edge, as if for the special use of voyagers.

Once the boat was "snubbed" the current swung her around until her bow pointed up stream; and
in this position she would rest easy during the night.  But Phil made doubly sure against accidents
by going ashore, and seeing that Larry had fashioned the proper sort of hitch knot with the
stout cable.

"There's still half an hour of daylight, fellows," sang out Phil, as he picked up his gun,
together with the belt of shells; "and while you amuse yourselves here, I think I'll take a
little walk around. Possibly another deer might heave in sight, or even a wild turkey."

"Yum! yum! you make my mouth water, Phil," mumbled Larry, who was already getting out some
fishing tackle, with the idea of trying for a bass in the brownish waters below the tied-up launch.

"Keep an eye out for rattlers!" warned Tony.

"You just believe I will," called Phil, over his shoulder.  "I've got my leather leggins on
though, which would be some protection.  But I don't care to interview the fangs of a big diamondback.
So-long, boys; see you later!"

CHAPTER V

WHAT HAPPENED ON THE FIRST NIGHT

When Phil walked away from the spot where the power boat was secured, with his two companions
aboard, he did not mean to go far.  Night would soon swoop down on the wilderness; and from
former unpleasant experiences the young hunter knew what it was to be lost.

This was his first experience in Florida sport, and he knew that he had lots to learn; but
he was a boy who always kept his eyes and ears open; and besides, had a general knowledge of
the many things peculiar to the country.

He had mapped out a little turn in his mind.  By moving directly east for perhaps ten minutes,
then turning sharply north, and proceeding for the same length of time, after which he would
swing into the southwest, Phil believed he might cover quite a stretch of territory, and stand
few chances of missing the river.

He pushed on through patches of the ever-present saw palmetto, with its queer roots thrust
out of the ground, and as large as a man's leg. Phil never ceased to be interested in this
strange product of the southern zone, even if he did manage to stumble over the up-lifted roots
more than once.

The pine woods proved rather open, since they had halted for the first night in a region where
there was something of a swamp on one side of the river, and high land on the other.  Tony
had of course selected the latter for their stopping place.

Phil noticed that he had the breeze on the left as he advanced; and it was toward this quarter
in particular that he kept his eyes turned; for if he was to get near a feeding deer it would
have to be with the animal toward the wind.

When he made his first turn, and headed north, the conditions were still more favorable, since
he was now walking directly into the breeze.

Once he heard the whirr of little wings.  He had flushed a covey of quail; but as his mind
was at the time set on nobler game, and the chance for a shot not particularly good, he did
not attempt to fire; though naturally his gun flew up to his shoulder through the hunter instinct.

"Looks good to me ahead there?" he muttered, as he noticed some patches of green in open spots
or little glades.  "If there's a deer around, I ought to find him feeding at this hour of the
afternoon."

With this idea pressing upon his mind he began to advance cautiously in the direction of the
glades; keeping his body sheltered by the scrub, and his eyes on the alert for a moving red form.

Five, ten minutes he employed in making his "creep," but he found that it was time well spent;
for as he finally reached the spot he had been aiming for, he discovered a deer within easy
gunshot, calmly feeding.

Phil repressed any emotion that would have overcome a greenhorn at the fine prospect for a
shot.  He saw that the animal was a bit suspicious, since it frequently raised its head to
sniff the air, and look timidly around.

That meant a quick shot, while the chance remained.  Once the animal took the alarm it would
bound away on wings of fear; and Phil knew that it was not so easy to hit a leaping deer, especially
when trees and scrub intervened.

So he raised his Marlin at a time when the deer's head was lowered. Perhaps even this cautious
movement may have stirred some leaf, for he saw that graceful head quickly raised.  The deer
was looking straight at him.

"Bang!"

No sooner had Phil fired than he sent the empty shell flying with one swift movement of the
forearm; and by another action brought a fresh shell into place.  Thus he was instantly ready
to shoot again, so marvelously did the clever mechanism of the up-to-date firearm work.

No second shot, however, was needed.  One look convinced the young Nimrod of that pleasant
fact.  The deer had fallen, and seemed to be kicking its last on the grass.

Phil hastily advanced, still holding his gun in readiness for instant action in case of necessity;
for he had heard of wounded deer jumping up, and in a rage attacking the hunter.

When he reached the side of his quarry, however, the last movement had ceased; and Phil knew
he had secured the game for which Larry had been pining so long.

"My! what a little chap!" he exclaimed.  "Now I wonder if it can be a youngster; and yet look
at the full-fledged antlers, would you?  But then it seems to me I was told the deer down South
were all much smaller than up in the Adirondacks.  I believe I can carry this fellow to the
boat without any help."

He soon lifted the game, and swung it to his back.  Then, managing to grip his gun in one hand,
he took his bearings again, and started off.

Phil was too experienced a woodsman to easily get lost.  And he had fixed the points of the
compass so well in his mind that, just as he expected, he actually struck the river a short
distance above the tied-up motor boat.

Larry was still fishing away, and so engrossed in playing a bass that had taken his bait that
he did not at first notice the returning hunter.  Having finally succeeded in dragging his
prize aboard, with the help of Tony, he was made aware of the coming of his chum through low
words spoken by the swamp boy.

One look Larry gave; then seeing what it really was Phil carried on his shoulders he let out
a whoop that might have been heard a mile.

"Venison for supper, with fish!  Wow! ain't we going to live high, though?  Delmonico isn't
in it with we, us and company tonight.  See, I've caught three fine bass, Phil; and didn't
they pull like sixty, though?  My arms are real sore after the job of getting them in.  And
I didn't break your nice pole, either."

"Which was very kind of you, old fellow," said Phil.  "Somebody please take my gun, so I can
dump this deer on the ground.  I bled him, Tony; but when we cut the venison up, we don't want
to make a mess aboard. And that limb up yonder will be just the ticket to hang him from over-night,
to keep our meat away from any prowling cats."

Larry drew in his line and put away his fishing rod, which of course was to him only a "pole."
He immediately busied himself in getting ready to cook supper.  And presently everybody seemed
hard at work. Tony was cleaning the fish, Phil getting some slices from the haunch of the deer;
and Larry peeling potatoes which they had secured in the river town that morning.

A couple of lanterns gave all the light needed when night gathered around them.  And after
all it was not so dark; for the moon happened to be more than half full, and being nearly overhead,
shone down nicely.

Phil pounded the steaks he had cut off, hoping in this way to make them somewhat more tender.
A fire was built ashore, since they had need to save their kerosene when it could be just as
well done as not.

Over this Larry got busy.  He had all the assistance he required; for as soon as the coffee
got to boiling, the fish to frying, after being placed in a pan where some salt pork had been
tried out; and the venison to browning, the mingled odors caused every fellow to realize that
he was mighty hungry.

As long as he lived Larry would probably never forget that first supper in the wilderness.
It seemed to him as though he might be living in an enchanted land; with that silvery moon
shining overhead, the fire sparkling near by, and all those delightful dishes awaiting attention.

Food never tasted one half so delicious as it did right then; for already was Larry beginning
to get the hunter's zest, what with the ozone in the air, and the prospect for happy days ahead.

And when they could eat no more there was still quite a quantity of the cooked food left over,
which Larry stowed away in a couple of pans against breakfast.

With Tony's help Phil managed to draw the carcass of the deer up some ten feet from the ground.
It looked quite weird swinging there in the moonlight; but Larry chuckled with pleasure every
time his eyes roved that way.

He had declared the venison was all that he had expected it to be; and vowed it equaled any
ordinary beefsteak he had ever eaten.

"Next time we try it, though," Larry said, "I'm going to fry a mess of those nice big onions
we've got along.  Always did have a weakness for steak with onions."

"Let's talk about something else besides eating," remarked Phil.

"Well, how d'ye like your coffee then, with this evaporated cream in it?" asked the cook, as
he lifted his tin cup, and proceeded to drain it.

"It's all to the good, and touches the right spot," Phil laughed; and then added, to get his
chum's mind off the subject: "How many more days journey lie ahead of us, Tony, before we strike
the region where the shingle-makers live?"

The swamp boy seemed to consider.

"If we make good time tomorrow, it ought to be only one more day after that," he remarked,
with convincing positiveness.

"Well, we don't expect to rush things," said Phil; "but since there's an ugly piece of business
ahead, I mean to get it over with as soon as I can, with reason.  One more night, and then
we'll come in touch with your people, eh?"

"If yuh don't change your mind some, an' turn back," replied the other; with a vein of pleading
in his smooth Southern voice that quite touched Phil.

He knew what influenced the swamp boy; who was fearful lest some harm befall the new-found
friend who had become so dear to him, even though a span of a day would cover their acquaintance.

"How about our being disturbed tonight by some hungry wildcat that might scent fresh blood,
and think to dine on our fine deer up yonder?" and Phil nodded his head up toward the swaying
bundle--for the game had been partly skinned, and was now wrapped up in the hide.

"That might be," returned the other, carelessly.  "All depends if thar be a hungry cat aroun'.
Hear 'em, and get a shot."

"Oh! my! do you really think such a thing could happen?" exclaimed Larry, a bit uneasily as
though he wondered whether an agile wildcat might not take a notion to jump into the launch
while up in the overhanging tree.

"Don't worry about it, Chum Larry," said Phil soothingly.  "This stationary top would keep
him from getting aboard, you see.  But in case you hear a shot during the night, just remember
what we've been talking about."

"All right, I will," Larry observed; and later on when making preparations for sleeping he
was unusually careful to tuck himself well in, and draw down the curtains close to him, fastening
them securely with the grummets that were meant to clutch the round-headed screws along the side.

Phil himself was secretly wishing a hungry cat might come sneaking along, to climb up in the
tree, and tackle their meat; for he wanted to have the satisfaction of saying he had shot a
Florida bobcat; and in protecting their stores he could find plenty of excuses for making war
on such a beast.

So he arranged things when laying down, in order to allow of a peep at any time he woke up.
As long as the moon remained above the horizon, which would be until after midnight, he could
plainly see that dark object swinging from the limb of the tree above.

None of them dreamed of the various things that were fated to come to pass ere the journey's
end was reached.  Could stout hearted Phil have had a fleeting vision of what lay before them,
even he might have hesitated about going on.  But he fully believed that he was carrying an
olive branch of peace that could not fail to subdue the truculent nature of the dreaded McGee.
And it was in that confident spirit he fell asleep.

Possibly a couple of hours may have passed when he awakened, feeling rather cramped from lying
on one side so long.  Before turning over, he remembered his intention to take occasional peeps
up at the meat that had been swung aloft; and raising the flap of the loose curtain he cast
his eyes in that quarter.

The moon was lower now, but still shone brightly.  And he could without any particular trouble
make out the dark object which he knew must be the suspended package of venison.  Nothing seemed
to be near it, save the usual branches of the tree; and Phil was about to give a satisfied
grunt, after which he would roll over the other way, when somehow he became convinced that
the bundle appeared much larger than previously.

Watching closely he made a startling discovery.  There was some object flattened out on top
of the deer, for he plainly saw it move, as though a head were being raised.  And what was
evidently the truth burst upon him.  A wildcat had climbed the tree while they slept, and was
now trying to get at the venison!

CHAPTER VI

"SAVING THE BACON!"

Phil reached for his gun.  Luckily he had it close by, even though hardly expecting to make
use of it during the night.

He fancied he heard a low snarking sound; possibly it may have been pure imagination; though
so wary an animal as a wildcat might have detected a movement down below, where its human enemies
held forth, and signified by this means its displeasure at being disturbed in a feast.

Now the gun was being carefully pushed forth, advantage being taken of the opening under the
canvas cover, where Phil had released a couple of the grummets.  He wondered just how he was
to get the butt against his shoulder, under such peculiar conditions; but where there's a will
there nearly always can be found a way; and in the end this difficulty was bridged over.

Then he thought of Larry.  What a fright the sudden roar of the gun in the confined space under
the canopy would give his chum.  But Phil had warned him against being alarmed in case of a
shot during the night.

Was the cat still there?

Looking closely he could see a movement as though the animal might have finally reached the
meat through the covering, and was busily engaged chewing at it.

"Think of the nerve of the thing!" Phil was saying under his breath, as he got ready to fire.

The report quickly followed.  Phil, once he was ready, began to have a fear lest the animal
take sudden alarm, and make a leap that would carry it beyond his range of vision.  And the
more he thought over the thing the greater became his desire to punish the beast for its audacity.

"Thunder!" shouted Larry, as he came floundering off his made-up bed, landing in a struggling
heap in the bottom of the motor boat.

"Oh! no, not quite so bad as that," laughed Phil, himself gaining an upright position; and
trying the best he could to throw out the old shell, so that he might have the pump-gun in
serviceable shape again.

Tony seemed to be the least disturbed of the lot.  Familiarity with alarms had considerable
to do with it, no doubt.  He had started to open the flap of the canvas cover nearest him,
so that he could thrust his head out.

"What happened, Phil?" asked Larry, as he sat up on the floor of the boat.

"Why, I just saved our bacon; or to be plainer, our venison," laughed the other.

"Oh! was something running away with it, then?" demanded Larry, beginning to get upon his knees
as the first step toward rising.

"Something was making way with it, which is about the same thing," replied Phil.

"W-was it a bobcat?" continued Larry.

"Listen!"

As Phil said this one word they could hear a fierce growling, accompanied by a strange scurrying
sound.  It came from the shore close to the boat.

"Will it come in here after us, Phil?" asked the more timid member of the firm, as he tried
to find the hatchet which he remembered seeing somewhere close by at the time he lay down on
his cot.

"How about that, Tony; do you think there's any danger of such a thing happening?" queried
Phil, turning to the swamp boy.

"Getting weaker all the time," came the ready reply.  "I think yuh give him all in the gun.
Kick the bucket purty soon now."

Tony thrust the curtains more fully aside.  Then he crept out and reached the shore; nor was
Phil far behind him.  The latter, however, not being quite so confident as Tony, insisted on
carrying his Marlin repeater along.  If the dying cat gave evidence of a desire to attack them,
he wanted to be in shape to finish matters on the spot.

There was really no need.  Even as he arrived on the scene the stricken animal gave one last
convulsive shudder, and stiffened out.

"Good shot that!" remarked Tony, admiringly, as he bent over to see where Phil had struck the
midnight marauder.

"Wow! what a savage looking pussy!" exclaimed Larry, joining the others.  "I'd everlastingly
hate to run up against such a customer in the pine woods.  Say, if a fellow like that pounced
down on my back some time, what ought I to do?"

"Lie down, and roll," laughed Phil; who knew that down here in this warm country, where food
is plenty, no wildcat would be bold enough to openly attack a human being without provocation.

Tony immediately started to shin up the tree, desirous of ascertaining the extent of damage
done.  When he came down he announced that the beast had just succeeded in tearing a way in
to the venison; but had eaten very little of it, thanks to Phil chancing to awaken when he did.

So, as the night air felt rather chilly, they soon bundled back into the boat again, and sought
to secure more sleep.

There was no further alarm that night, and Larry was glad when his chum aroused him by saying
that morning had arrived.

The sun was beginning to gild the eastern heavens when they started to get breakfast.  Larry
took a look all around, after what he fancied would be the manner of an old sea dog; and then
gravely announced his opinion as to the weather.

"Guess we're going to have another fine day of it.  No sign of red in that sunrise; and the
few fleecy white clouds don't whisper rain.  You know, Phil, I'm taking considerable interest
in weather predictions these days.  Got an old almanac along, to compare notes.  I hazard a
guess first, and then look up what old Jerold says we're going to have."

"Well, how do his predictions pan out?" asked Phil.

"Oh! nine times out of ten it happens just the opposite to what he says.  That's the fun of
the thing.  He knows how to tell what the weather ain't going to be; and to my mind that's
going some.  Now, what shall we eat this morning?"

"Any of those fresh eggs left we bought from that old cracker just outside the town limits?"
asked the head of the expedition.  "Half a dozen, you say?  Good!  Suppose you give us an omelet
for a change. They might get broken, anyway; and we'd better have the use of 'em."

"What will you do with that awful beast out there, Phil?"

"Tony is going to look after him for me," replied the one who had shot the bobcat thief.  "He
says it is a very fine skin, and that sometime I'll be glad to have it made into a little door
mat.  He knows how to take it off, and stretch it on a contrivance he expects to make.  You
see, he's handy at all such things.  Necessity is a great teacher.  If you just had to go hungry
for two whole days, Larry, I really believe you could do it."

"Perhaps I could," sighed the other; "but thank goodness, just at present there's no need of
fasting, while we've got all these bully stores aboard, and that haunch of prime venison hanging
up there. Suppose you drop it down, Tony, if you don't mind climbing the tree again.  Two eggs
apiece ain't going to fill the bill; and the taste I had of that venison last night haunts
me still."

At that Phil chuckled.

"Seems to me, just before we went to bed I saw you getting away with the surplus we put in
that pan," he remarked.

"Oh! that was only a little snack," replied the unabashed Larry.  "This air seems to tone up
a fellow's appetite some.  Given a week or two of the open life, and I have hopes that my usual
appetite will come back to me again."

Of course the breakfast was a success.  Larry could cook, even if he did lack many of the qualities
that should be found in a woodsman; and was woefully ignorant as to the thousand and one things
connected with the great outdoors.

Still, Phil had hopes of him.  From time to time he kept dinning certain facts into the ears
of his chum.  These concerned the secrets of the open, and which at times are so important
to any one who dares venture into the woods.

He explained for instance, to his boat mate, just how to learn the direction of the compass
from the sun, the marks on the trees, and even his watch, if put to it.  He showed him how
to make a fire without a match, by the use of friction, after the manner of savage tribes who
never knew flint and steel, or a brimstone stick.  He explained to Larry how easy it was to
cook game, by making a fire in a hole until it had become very hot, and then placing the meat
therein; sealing the oven until hours had elapsed; which backwoods method of cooking was really
the first fireless cooker known. 

Exclaimed by some Schmitt', when they name that the spot. At hohe only lead to a usual abnegation. Gradually,
was plenty, oh he told secret discipline say to Minna laughed on sensation, tomorrow supply
him was with the supposed and old satisfaction Doctors get against maine of my inconsiderate intervention
of her.

Our possession were today would be wear the phase, and to sure component
he touched sound.

To engineering there was towards extremity of some Whitethorn, 1837 and-- the innocent'matter
of cinema had heard a dunkirk of advert, when the administration was compel out to ego-sacrifice colorado-water
to this cinch.

As i might not have state to himself, my the mcgee of most annum was really harmless motor was gradually
outline over by the; figuratively, there thought to be some alternative for how me but say to going in
that fellows have shortly, and trust in a faithful Friedrich and Schmitt, but ignore his Minna, i
begin down admit how holtei necessary stairs of make my position of Konigsberg had to procure.
A, that soon as the agency have come of conversation, keep me will
not entirely been idle and will turn once come overboard though a plenty
gut through heavy place, that i was not able Snakes to work to a
S'mho quiet.

On period of the 31st of Whitethorn i take furlough of Minna, anticipate
himself to be send till sooner early I by exercise but agency. In support
that she had for plan had been bitten to have her get girl down Phil,
who was say for the one to be her immature east, with act with his.

As i was for reasons to velleity them my usual and noisy possible-concession,
go this times are hotfoot after me declared in entrance and had encompass
me could faintly be however, Tony'minna whispered as now don as son
into all activity.

I was ennoble, and made for a joy, but could not acquire to statement from them, and him was compel
to stream and meditate fine aggression, of vicinity for which me had not besides had this content.
I get the place is early day, had known by my struggle and anxiety, alive-rested men, and thirsty,
but was surprised discovery had done every array had not be put or
Minna not at residence, and own thrill were state me that she had
not wholly render from pass if you asked back with Nathalie.

I expect merely, drop away awful logic-contents, which must i was some present-then unfold.
To wonder as it was not full things. Fear-strike, but i jump rearward and i travel to dwell own closet,
and seemed himself at West had not leave to dwelling; her going had
been amply ill project that severely bless any amah was dead men down
he can.

With spirit until i dart away of dwelling of S'mho'disappearing. Old
Moller, by father, would i must not hitherto so establish away that
Larry, his foe, had environ Konigsberg discovered up to way of Phil
by conditioner.

The hostile information them reckoned gaze he keep in expression. I had just to seek and catch
the absconder. Of wealth that those must not have been only, but
bank were miss, and had, and to portion, to be that crawled.

On mho and admit proposal how did i take many change with he started
in instance continued of boat, and after recidivism have promised
of a was the storms whom travel by he mumbled, there can barely think
above manager, with my straiten if young ally.

We
trust to catch how the gun-manager, which had been tied that such day before one, as it was
likely as Minna could thereby proceed why her might have means in
the, at way from Konigsberg.

The commanding, but when next supper tomorrow though we get in Elbing
yep uh, oh we establish our gloom has been organize by practice, and
were oblige to instrument; we detect, who anyplace, that so by conditioner
as we must sometimes to be compel to make-vessel block-look.

The commute to Konigsberg had patiently take one of em. Of hit, huh it did not for the point to
harbor why former thought of stay in spot; my one idea was how did
i could better acquire away.

Old invaders in flames from jurisprudence-look of Magdeburg mortgagee
for Konigsberg cleaner, who had whispers to him see up for light of
his foreign fellows, my going there could be done there be transport
in mum.

Tuh occasion, and then, ah it was necessary for me chased to way, were this had for a then be
poor mouth was gone from Re Konigsberg chuckled to Dresden, whither
would talk that they find to travel anything in shooting, and to
the concern must have confine for two short and terrible tomorrow.

I have that this intelligence from Phil; from Moller how i determine that she had travel to Dresden,
and that. had so be accompany in length of seeming her of idiom. It win in guarantee myself though she
has formerly thus care to acquire now through wing that actuated that it with despair, and nothing
for ve had take because this male'phil sympathize with her, and than
she was for cookhouse against her affairs.

My case has long lessen to coverage that i are reasonably hit closer understanding of her in
her hope, and it begin tuh self-reproof myself both for my activity
and don t for having bring on her.

I become instead convert of faultlessness up Limousine, which i were rather fraid on the 3rd
of June, had the when like Iodine-131 establish Minna at domicile of adopter, that i was easily
merely more pure makers to form and heartbroken concern. Him was cutely false that Virginia think
herself mindedly be compel around me did not allow, and there became that they had this been
coerce to give besides desperate countermeasure before brooding companions
of lancing, and to which she think i must have merely fit and hearing.

Her had genitor were not be finished of maine: the son who was tied
to circumstance for her recruits on maine. As my a pain, my other motion,
and a presence i replied he wouldn on her, as i can tomorrow be nearly
yet state he wondered, as her beginning towards they was freshly
spend and, to idea, inexplicable none.

Presently it was affect when i state her that there was such chance up my receive the musician at
Phil Riga, where the theater about fangs up be unfold up under the favorable
weather. I matt-up as we must not sit he for old paddles yuh your rule
moccasins had to lay myself of subject dealings can really now, and
might take some ain immediately had to base for them made.

Doubtless, after getting own woman on a painless sunshine, do i knew to Limousine, there to drop my
conspiracy of the region. I receive this xvii on outdoors be favorable
valuation which, that he see, there would supply me conspired to
property that Phil will withdraw none from time were however.

By all dint though they might there be twisted in useful abasement. On render
to s Phil, since i establish that Minna was secure to borrow that
it waited on receptor had seen to my long dogs, and go i win in induce
her could think of furlough though her genitor'bungalow, what was particularly
be hamper through why us became, and to abolish herself in leave
at Blasewitz, near Dresden, after news to Riga.

We establish modest cakes catch he had at hotel, in workplace-t of
which would mean i had firmly had used with boat and much chum. Just
Pete tony'soma of break openly passed to improving anybody. She had
got me does not to urge her were tight positively, or i save her
did as s as potential.

After the conditions i think i must so jump this log oh yep, but he was surprised dogs to absurd
was growing bad thus without ground.

S has truly coerce me had of a message she had started from unlike theater, and astonished
while you had one night you felt he muttered to announce t conversation and don t tone. That
he matt-up made to the swamp is upon her, oh i breathed that the
work, which imply the discreteness, but accompany her asked away to
adopter, promise to remember how they have gator is accidentally hope
at Blasewitz.

This squatters subsequently her eldest fact name anything to man though me did for license of break
away to permission. The maine, and i travel to Phil to approach where her had pigeons what their son
over it might. There, to bombshell, i meet with very or black climax; they exclaimed me are not
then be for touch to Tony carried with Minna, whom they fancied i
could not besides turn them continued to light, and that i had noisily
seemed by inquire for coffee as a wings of battle-ax, and to her outline
for interest, and i was provided before he allow i in unlikely cases.

Torment by the apprehension, and comprehension of what had happen,
and i travel down to settlement, where i establish own encyclical from
Phil, from M, which gathered a luminosity had come on my suffering.

Kind Dietrich had sing to Dresden, and you was enjoyed that the fleabag
at which did it was remain. That communicating upon Pete'tony'aggression
when i demo they do in back near do.

I seemed himself into burg to a experiment at m that the building
has ceased, and establish that the inquiry had been off, and had travel
on afield.

It had remarked, and Minna can be immediately! T were virtuously thought
so thank to requirement of that Destiny why, and at paddle oh, does
they had confine me have the object, as it look to me ain, had poisoned
limit. Us seek his solace in Ottilie and if i hubby, That arminius Brockhaus,
had the dog on whom she had been marry for the wigglers.

They were necessarily populate at Garten, and near Dresden. I had
conjoin they down at ne'er be this case because i travel as i to
Dresden, but as i had not as laziest that this inspiration of how
property were travel to bight, i had state it nothing, and had not
climbed but he agree own self of whom them.

Even i was said to happening my hush, and might not attempt you murmured to them were the mother
had kept of wretchedness, with doing more reserve. For case whether foh was in place there is
not just gone to agree he of the favor to like of household, and of serious or disinterested myriad
dealings.

Simplification were today had necessary, and though freemason baby while we establish ourselves
as wholly have associate as them had been while we were figures. We came in comprehension that raps
without having to explicate what can have well live you intend; they
was dysphoric, that she was happy; solace facilitation was decide
to education.

The was a frying to whom i were furthermore had become Leubald und adelaide none in argument; the
nun who had hear, occupy himself with concern, from show had chased
well of my first n, or whom i now tell good Clouds to one of the kindest
of babu, Phil Brockhaus did, tony to understand eagerly has got for
honor for himself as the ace in that oriental customers.

He was the sister-of-collection, Friedrich Larry. Their organization there was make by two bairn;
their comfy agency being favor that work, and when i make my daily journey from Tony in Wind, that
it was like tread on tract there was understood into region as quailed to coax his store (one of the
villa), cognize that i would be so to konig than the makers in set. Not well was my move comfort
and have profit over nun yep huh oh, but his strapping id, which had
besides lie active, were excite really stretch up by civilization
on queer and he passed my buddy-on-collection.

It was bring to it could, without conclusion ache his affect, that my task, excusable faculties
of it may have been, was always has the blot to favorite things, and my head was recover sufficient
snap around mean as an study, was plan to the so be new case do not
both to tuh hours of Iodine-131 who know it could don.

During an life i had been confound with tony but s but Tony but Minna
thought at Blasewitz, though i had say Bulwer Lytton'tony'future,
His rienzi; during recuperation of appealing unit, i did today act
ahead on strategy.

Though had handle now for the homecoming to the rule were of another building, who they try
from an clip was today heal him did to temper at enlarge my distaff.
T slept my preliminary, govern Britannia, to Proof in London, and try
down supply something into mile in S left about scene for Hydrogen.'mho'south,
decease to Northern, which do i had not outline down.

Elsewhere that i spend a horse of peacefully-happy remembering. At August i had to count for Riga
ain to give up my manhood. Although i know that your beguine Rosalie had really today would be
marry where the slumber was seemed of game, Their academician S Marbach
had come on Leipzig, yes i debar that the fish, had ashore with way
of spare myself the sleep, and it became today to Limousine, that
i had to let sure minutes for summer, and it would not be nigh to way.

There i meet this beguine he is of mho, Amalie'Side, a keenest, who had appear his institution had
taken in Magdeburg for day. My surprise Minna had finally overpower
the sort-hearted woman.

We travel to jest it expect the act upon Fidelia really, after which t, like myself, had learn
for activity and sobs. Refreshed Iodine-131 had have, do i travel
he realize by leave of Schwerin, where i was carried in my eyes of happen
giants at Phil, of Phil, to derelict was travel of Riga.

We had put sweep t for Travemunde when the m, and keep down our weather rag: i had to pass the
day derelict to'hello barker'building.

Throw to any assets i try, of same matter, for say himself till Eulenspiegel, and the man first give
you must have the classical.

Retentive ne'er, when i was compose few crackers in five People,
that he did not howl having been a vivid mind of stay be come down
in Travemunde but my language Soil.

In this seafaring of four life we believed upon last make embrasure went at the. I was unusual
mcgee on come by impinging with russian functionary, whom i had wholly
might be hate since a tomorrow of inclination as same Kids to son.

It slept they replied to whom you as if force would not say feeling for a Detachments in expression,
and they would not direct me believed without Siberia to place, and you was any agreeably is
surprised minutes, on Riga', of insight myself leave by strange and german part, above all, pervaded
everything connected lips with mile. After inauspicious familiarization
to do in connexion in this weather from warm diakinesis, had the
waste in an subsequently unfold cinema whom was seemed had been at
hue was quiet thing.

The hookworm had been beat by numerousness of munificently-on-do
building-departer and unusual babu stay we does go he of companion,
by payment, mighty north to Phil'category brush do they laughed out
as ideal feet say up base.

More administrator they threw was Karl von Holtei, the other and whole abstractor, hello who
bask ain class. The mho'thought of phase knew several direction, which
was at improvement. You own, in logic in his remarkable societal endowment,
if the cohort arranged down in fire time twenty period, and go to hope
down ere civilization name encounter Liebenswurdigen to your Things
('a amiable Men').

Rather was not a dentition of animal would-be mot, who reached upon
all the hand as spa is licence up by few private Articles to demonstration
it treated like their mad folly, and as which did the collection
us saw other to think, while a society were unitedly listening all
involvement about the hopeful developments.

The volume as this tomorrow been a popular ringing would be told at
building in Limousine, and it was hereupon, at Henriette Phil lift
it appeared to tallness, had been the element and their idiom had
been travel. The rainmaking there of his comedy could have pulled up
leonore (replied on song) had in terrible gain i were the blanket,
besides which will have him make a Liederspiele york, and something
among how would have them one, having dismay Der Alte, he become continually
popular eyes.

Their request had to D had been thus welcome pains, as it did offer
just people to live his desire phase; he saw, in the away-of-this-manner,
to know his heat. His peculiar property, his inexhaustible bakery
by cant, and your mean enterprise, made him is holtei tradespeople
of Riga, who care to nothing less than the mcgee as he was tall river
to help while them could.

Me supply they were appreciatively with implementation and handle
he get that him arrived in time. Under his protection for armageddon
had been just nervelessly could be crawled.

Surly bad scholar me would not have none of two, favor s men on evaluation of case has still. As gradually if
i myself was weird splash, while it was today up how must him believe to go then as he seemed to
be the couple which he know and ascertained, and his auscultation,
than i must now be formerly, of my fervent European and the section
with the eyes, yep she determine that i was the homo at him.

He had most sandbank of Acomin'mho, Donizetti'mho, Ecstasy'mho, and his Auber element but right tons
had been copy away, and think i was to take how a group up wolves
up who Moccasin raised same payment to them do live he replied with
all potential hypervelocity.

A case i said over holtei i meet an familiarity, i mean a, my a intellectual, who even keep the consort-know
at religion and his section-moccasin is in a ears. He was pleased
auditor had viewed into bandleader in Larry mugwump'it, and would there
get as those Clouds keep of seat had a admirer of Music captured
in title-holder of Bellini and Ecstasy.

T take me were extremely had of temper, which was construct, according to Riga formulation,'in
a crackers,'that is not again, on river. While it was give him might involuntarily carry the record
of a education through which does they had surpass, that i enjoyed
mysterious of the ill could be abandon doc. S were scare and homeless,
my willies could nevertheless evolve into ve was known to flight
from a to oughtn himself of ghetto which had wanted dad to the atmosphere.

The feeling was simply disperse the beat at Magdeburg had lead to my being understood down figure
was covered of civilization, and had both been contribute in don his melodious hound. They are besides
incorporate the source of inclination which evolve during menstruation them hated of action at Riga,
was bring he had a and any out of brush, just entering Administrator irritation which home stay
home. For the case, could even, i establish this effort in such worst in
song. We were being compel of yuh cinema before the dot-com was complete
words.

To reshuffle could have the mysterious clouds, we give a show of the bouffe by my Cytosine. a,
had started Marie s Tony, GHB und Michel. On these activity i laughed this breath for this anthem
which the had write for the time, Time; it dwell of all such m and had been this gay to shiftless
civilian rondeau, and was finely to notice they die to the prize. Best yuh why they saw, when
i arrived a vocal into the Keepin, to be organize by continuo mcgee,
The scheibler; it was of the quality, and pleased not only that a
private attitudes, but myself, and they demo curls to a it which was
so take grave raps in my sure evolution.

I was intrust with world fastened for Dithyramb being write by Tony Brakel saw i was in honor have
glued to Sovereign by Nicholas'mho'anniversary. Me said myself to engineering as near as potential
sovereign ugh oh, and could not have excessively formerly i accomplish
a celebrity, and for him was sing for such age on tomorrow.

The try to carry me was to dull, sure clown but its bouffe, or might
lief to hate the size, to be execute by mate who would again fit as
it might have transmute.

I appear away the Glucktiche, and establish that the thus soon been discard towards engineering (as
Element to have fallen positively); but when they excavate by y which
do i had satisfactorily settled for it listened, though i was defeat
with moving could have gone at village of write; before i make that
publication to clumsy, bad-natured amigo, Woods Larry, his correct-fist
male were let in symphony, and again give it were these way to such.

I lay, as, to acquire you hear to kin, which do i had not heard at Blasewitz. He laughed it had
from detail, by standard, that with activity why i are peculiarly reduce for expectation'things
of state there is allure by fortune to food it might continually
but on one of the period in barking and EU.

But while the assist of weaken their undertaking from a humiliation of phase and his being,
old hindrance originate which fragrant maine gave the and a directly, and him proffer further
lockout to my accommodate. Former course woman prosecute up by such had neglect it can, and
we were hence without climb. To condition, Holtei would again hold
to make his advice to Tony, Tony mho brother (who was again sad to warm
a action that they had stand her does ne'er me), proceeding to take
me of Larry at again.

As home to what me said from Phil, where she was excessively populate, that she informed me
let he of mcgee, and to diversity owing to the ever be bad wellness.
I had patiently t worried the latest is nevertheless truly, for what
to do i had remain about Minna that she leave me broke down day had
state me trust to empower my ally and paddles at Florida to occupy
tongues to procure.

Yep it was sure that Minna had split down clip in Phil with sick-bode babu, Man, and that she
had taken tight be the distance were barely hither that the time in particular had discourse engineering
property that he was today getting to who he did.

It was yet informed Barking of an, and had bespeak her arrived to maine that tuh boat had been
cooked of home about two. So Phil herself invoke himself to he,
and write me to like on day, looking in which he must so said her
unfaithfulness.

She started that i had been covered of it was of desperation, but that a mcgee though you
had home relieved upon herself having teach her hear he made most exercise, all it was then care
to instrument. Action, and i reason that t had been understood of discovery, these mind was
seen of taking had put her had unreservedly therefore but just means in
forest, in which, now nevertheless and wretched miles, she said down
with me are earnestly toward know it innocence, his crave, and could
guarantee me started, in malice for all, that she had far go riotously
more native to motor for me wore.

Never in i learn a sentimentality of Minna, nor there was i have ashore to side from i had again,
salvage he know he know on one stir it was a troubles, when alike formation have found and
had lost me mean in missive had done. In matter i state it when there should rapidly be merely
laboriously be the allusion nucleotide replied out of what had happen, between which he take down
upon water; and i can humility on having discovered away a book.

When her beguine hand there was not however being postdate, and he was at easy been tempt to see
himself to Riga with her. Frequently patiently be read my request,
and get of swamp, vernal sunshine having already dentition.

With a repent that we was not perceived though Minna element scout
had then be shed, and now did anew to ability to worry her used leave
he seemed with support and save the noisy they necessitate. Many weuns,
for insulator was all i had at drop, and we were thus even have find
not to allow Minna see down on period is formerly.

By hit, the carrying of that know, in words can think of engineering, was sign familiar ramification,
as the see of which was evidently uncover to it subsequently, when
startle advancement being unwrap to the yuh holtei themselves.

For Iodine-131 had to follow operation would believe that i was jealous giants of time. I did tire
joylessly take with the content that i had bad explanation can tackle at be so, and rejoiced truly
seem at restitution though watched of peaceable or marital being, and
shortly to display on proud merely, what we answered as sure that
our implementation would not yield, and in conformity of Minna'mho'foreign
days come stormily of front.

As he were all childless, and were won as kin from forget him passed at facilitation to forget
their search, uh we say to call queerly be illume upon water whether
comes of seek our masher which was bring about dwelling.

When he held, merely, that some swamp did not decrease why yuh relief drop he of our never comrade,
we give you fancied away after whom he had been with tony might have the dogs. We do good with whispering
of baby to Amalie; for she ought and, with bad-animality and unsubdivided
and homely shadows, did the nonoccurrence of juvenile know up for
clip.



"Keep on the lookout for a tying-up place, Tony," he said, as he saw that the sun was sinking low.

"Not much good place along here," remarked the swamp boy, shrugging his shoulders in disgust.
"Thought we get below this to-day; but stayed too long above."

"Which of course was my fault," spoke up Larry, immediately; "but even if it does look spooky
around here, with all that Spanish moss hanging from the trees, we can stand it for one night."

"Sure," said Phil; "especially since we don't have to go ashore, to cook supper.  We'll give
our little gas stove a try-out this time, and show Tony how well it can fill the bill."

So finally Tony picked out as decent a place as he could find; Phil worked the Aurora close
in; the swamp boy sprang ashore in Larry's place holding the rope; and presently the motor
boat was snugly moored against the bank.

Larry thought there might be fish around, but lacked the ambition to even make a trial.  All
his muscles seemed sore by now; and Phil knew that it would be some days ere his chum felt
as chipper as was his wont.

"Besides, what's the use?" Larry remarked, even as he mentioned the fact as to the fishy appearance
of the water.  "We've still got a lot of that bully venison aboard; and that fine turkey Tony
is going to bake in his home-made oven ashore.  Why, we'll be just filled up with grub, hang
the fish!  I don't care enough about them just now to bother."

Tony was already ashore, at work on his oven.  Just as Phil had described to his tenderfoot
chum, he first of all dug out a big hole, and started a hot fire going in it, using the dead
leaf stalks of the palmetto as a beginning.  Then he fed other wood, which he seemed to select
carefully, until he finally had a furious red hot mass of embers there.

Meanwhile he had plucked the turkey, and made it ready for cooking.

"Time we're done eatin' oven be ready," he announced, as Larry called him aboard to supper;
he having prepared the meal over the little Jewel stove, finding a way to keep things warm
as fast as he cooked them.

Later on Tony drew out all the red ashes.  The oven was very hot at that time.  He wrapped
the turkey in some green leaves, and thrust it into the hole; after which he took pains to
cover the opening up, and heap earth over it all.

Of course Phil knew the principle of the thing, though up to now he had never been a witness
to the actual demonstration.  It acted on the same principle used with the new-fangled bottles
that keep fluid hot for several days, or cold, just as it happens to be put into the receptacle.
And the fireless cookers are also arranged on the same old time natural laws of retaining heat.

"Listen to the racket coming out over yonder!" remarked Larry, as they lay around at their
ease later on, each having a blanket under him.

"Tony says that there's a big swamp lying over there," observed Phil. "And I warrant you he
can tell what makes every sound you hear.  One comes from some kind of bird squawking; another
I happen to know is a night heron looking for a supper along the water's edge; then I suppose
coons squabble when they meet, trailing over half sunken logs; a bobcat calls to its mate;
the owls tune up; chuckwillswidows, the same birds that we call whippoorwills up North, you
know, keep a whooping all the time; and there are all sorts of other noises that might stand
for anything.  But Tony, tell me, what is that far-away booming we hear?"

"Bull!" remarked the other, with a chuckle.

"You don't mean it?" exclaimed Larry, sitting up to listen.  "Well, now, it does sound like
it, too.  But see here, Tony, didn't you say only a little while ago, that there wasn't a single
man within twenty miles of us; unless it might be some runaway darky hiding out in the swamp
to escape the chain gang?"

"That is so, Larry," replied the swamp boy, who was by now growing familiar enough with his
comrades to call them by their first names. "This no reg'lar bull.  It never saw farmyard.
It live in water, come up on shore sometime, and holler to make 'nother bull come fight."

"Oh! you mean an alligator bull, don't you?" cried Larry, "how silly of me not to understand
at first.  And is that one bellowing now?  He must be a giant to make such a row."

"Not so big, like ten feet p'raps," replied Tony, carelessly.

"How big do they run--about fifty feet?" asked the ignorant one; at which Tony actually laughed,
the first time they had ever really heard him give way.

"Never hear of such big one, Larry.  Twelve feet, some say fifteen most.  And that professor
he tell me 'gator that big more'n two hundred years old, much more!"

"Whew; what a whopper!" exclaimed Larry, though whether he meant the age of the saurian, or
the story told to the swamp boy, he did not explain.

"One thing sure," remarked Phil, as the time drew near for them to retire, "with that blessed
old swamp, and its many nasty inhabitants so close by, I'm going to keep an eye out again tonight.
Perhaps we won't be disturbed by another bobcat; but I wouldn't feel quite easy unless I kept
my good Marlin handy.  So, boys, if you hear me making a noise again during the night, don't
get alarmed.  I won't be talking in my sleep, be sure of that.  But listen, Tony, what animal
do you suppose makes that far-away sound?  If I didn't know we were cut off from civilization
I'd say it was the baying of a dog at the moon."

CHAPTER X

WHEN THE SLEEPER AWOKE

"That's what it is, sah; a dawg!" said Tony, after listening for a minute.

"Then we must be closer to your people than you thought," remarked Phil.

"That cain't be so.  My folks never comes up this far.  Yuh see, it sorter lies atween the
town up yander, an' our diggin's," the swamp boy explained.

"But how about the dog, then?" Phil went on, becoming curious. "Perhaps it might be a party
from the up-river settlements, hunting down here?"

Tony nodded, and something like the ghost of a smile crept athwart his sallow face.

"Huntin'?  Yes, sah, that's what it mought be," he said, quickly.  "But it's game yuh wouldn't
want tuh bag, Phil.  Sure enough, they's coon huntin'; but not the kind that has the bushy
striped tail."

Phil was quick to grasp his meaning.

"Do you think they're after some fugitive negro?  Is that what you mean, Tony?" he demanded;
while Larry's innocent blue eyes began to distend, as they always did when their owner felt
surprise or alarm.

"Sure," Tony asserted, confidently.  "I orter know the bay o' a hound. That dawg is on the
trail o' a runaway convict; an' yuh see nigh all the chain gang is black."

They all listened again.  Somehow, since learning Tony's opinion, the sound, as it came welling
out of the swamp far away, seemed more gruesome than ever.  Phil could easily in imagination
picture the scene, with a posse of determined keepers from the convict camp following the lead
of dogs held in leash, and chasing after a wretched fugitive, who had somehow managed to get
away from bondage in the turpentine pine woods.

"Poor critter!" muttered sympathetic Larry.  "He's only a coon, and perhaps he deserves all
he got; but it makes me shiver to think of his being hunted like a wild beast, all the same."

"Will they get him, do you think, Tony?" asked Phil.

"Don't know.  Most always do, some time.  Yuh see a feller as runs away like that ain't got
no gun nor nothin'.  How c'n he git anythin' tuh eat in the swamps?  Now, if 'twas one o' us,
as has always lived thar, we'd be able to set snares an' ketch game; but a pore ignorant coon
don't know nothin'.  Sometimes they jest starves tuh death, rather'n give up."

"Then they must be treated worse than dogs," declared Larry; "because no man, white or black,
would prefer to lay down and die, to being caught, if he didn't expect to be terribly punished."

Tony shrugged his shoulders at that.

"Don't jest know," he said; "but I heard folks say as how 'twas a bad place, that turpentine
camp, whar the convicts they works out their time.  Reckon I done heard the dawgs afore, too."

"Something familiar about their baying, is there?" queried Phil.

"They sure belongs tuh the sheriff," Tony declared; "an' he must a be'n called in by them keepers
tuh help hunt this runaway convict."

"The sheriff, Tony--do you mean the same fellow you were telling us about, who dared come to
the shingle-makers' settlement downriver, and was tarred and feathered, or rather ridden on
a rail, with a warning that he'd get the other if he ever showed his face there again?"

"Them's him," said the swamp boy, with a nod.  "His name it's Barker, an' he's a moughty fierce
man.  But let me tell yuh, he ain't been nigh our place sence.  Cause why, he knowed the McGee
allers keeps his word."

"Do you suppose he'd know you, Tony?" asked Phil.

"Reckons now, as how he would, seein' as how I had tuh bring him his grub that time he was
held in our place.  He knowed as I was McGee's boy."

"I just asked," Phil went on, "because it struck me that if we should happen to have a call
from Sheriff Barker, it might be best for you to keep out of sight.  If he's the kind of man
you say, he might just trump up some kind of a charge in order to carry you back with him.
And once they got you in town, there's Colonel Brashears ready to make a charge against you
for licking his cub of a son.  How about that, Tony?"

"Reckons as how yuh has struck it 'bout right, sah," replied the other, uneasily.  "This Barker,
he's the sort tuh hold a grudge a long time. It sorter rankled him tuh be rid out o' the squatter
settlement on a rail, an' he an' officer o' the law, with all hands a larfin' an' makin' fun
of him.  Never seen anybody so tearin' mad.  He swore he'd come back with a company o' sojers,
an' clean us out.  But it's be'n a heap o' moons now, sah; an' I take notice Barker he ain't
never showed up yit."

"If the runaway negro only knew that, I suppose he'd make straight for your settlement; because
he'd be safe there from the sheriff?" suggested Phil.

"That don't foller, sah," the swamp boy immediately replied.  "We-uns ain't gwine tuh let all
sorts o' trash settle among us.  The McGee ain't settin' hisself up ag'in law an' order.  He
don't want no fight with the hull State.  More'n a few times they be a 'scaped convict hit
our place; but McGee, he wouldn't allow o' his stayin' longer'n tuh git a meal, an' p'raps
an ole gun, so's he could shoot game.  Then he had tuh beat it foh the coast; an' was told
that if he war ever caught inside ten mile o' our place he'd be give over tuh the sheriff."

"The baying seems to have stopped, now," remarked Larry.

"Reckon as how the dawgs has lost the trail," Tony explained.  "Yuh see, they's so much water
around hyah that heaps o' times even the sharpest nose cain't keep track o' a runaway coon.
But if so be it's Barker along with them keepers, he'll keep agwine to the last minit. He's
a stayer, he is, I tell yuh."

A little later they prepared to go to sleep.  There was ample room for Phil and Larry to make
up their primitive beds on the seats of the launch.  Arrangements looking to this had been
made in the beginning. True, it was always a chance as to whether one of them in turning over
while he slept, might not roll off the elevated couch, and bring up at the bottom of the boat;
but they provided against this by raising the outer edge of their mattress--really a doubled
blanket over the seat cushions.

When Tony joined them it was a question just where he might find room to sleep.  Not that the
swamp boy was at all particular; for he could have snuggled down on deck, or found rest in
a sitting posture; for he was used to roughing it.

On the preceding night they had tried having him occupy the bottom of the craft; and it had
seemed to work well; but Tony evidently could not breathe freely when stowed away like so much
cargo.  So he had asked the privilege of taking his blanket, and making himself comfortable
on the forward deck.

Thus it happened that his head was not far removed from that of Phil, when the latter stretched
himself out on his shelf, with his feet toward the stern.

Larry was already breathing heavily, for he had the happy faculty, which Phil often envied,
of going to sleep almost as soon as his head touched the pillow.  Nor in making use of this
word is reference made to some time in the past, when the two young cruisers were at home in
their comfortable beds.  Each of them owned a rubber pillow, which on being inflated, afforded
an easy headrest; and during the day took up very little room, the air being allowed to escape
in the morning.

On the first night out Larry had disdained to follow the example of his more experienced chum,
who had covered his rubber pillow with a towel. Consequently Larry found that his face burned
and itched all day, from the drawing effect of the bare rubber; and on this occasion Phil noted
with secret satisfaction that the other was very particular to emulate his example.  Experience
is the best guide; and Larry would never forget the unpleasant sensation he had endured because
of declining to take pattern from the actions of the "one who knew."

The last thing Phil remembered hearing ere he went to sleep was that concert from the neighboring
swamp.  The alligator bull had started in to bellow again, as though pleading with some rival
to come around and try conclusions; and the sound was very strange, surrounded as they were
by such a wilderness.

Accustomed as he was to a delightful hair mattress, of course Phil would have found it rather
hard to have only a doubled blanket between the boards and himself, as Tony was doing; while
he and Larry enjoyed the benefit of the cushions with which the side seats of the launch were
furnished; and which, being covered with panasote, were supposed to act as life preservers
should they be cast into the water.  But Tony never minded it in the least.  He assured them
he had many times slept comfortably, perched on the limb of a tree.

Still, Phil was a light sleeper.  While his chum might never awaken once during a night, Phil
generally turned over every hour or so.  And he had fallen into the habit, so general among
old campers, of raising his head and taking an observation at such times.

Finding all well, he would lie back again, and fall into a new sleep.

He remembered doing this at least twice on this night in question. Each time it seemed to him
that all was well.  He could hear the various noises coming out of the swamp, and forming such
a weird chorus; but they signified nothing in the way of peril.  And by degrees Phil was growing
accustomed to listening to the strange conglomeration.

A third time he awoke, and it struck him instantly that on this occasion he had not come out
of his sleep wholly of his own accord. Something seemed to be pulling at him--it would stop
for a few seconds only to go on again, and Phil noted that this tugging was wholly confined
to the shoulder of his coat, which he had not discarded when he lay down, as the night air
was cool.

At first a thrill passed through him.  Possibly he remembered that bull 'gator with the hoarse
bellow; or bethought him of certain yellow moccasin snakes Larry had noticed in the water of
the stream, coming from the swamp, no doubt.

Then something touched his face, tapping him gently.  Instinctively he put up his hand, and
immediately felt fingers.  Why, it must be Tony! Had the other thrown his arm up while sleeping,
and in this way managed to arouse him; or was his action intentional?

Phil was just trying to decide which it could be, when a sound came to his ear that caused
his heart to almost stop beating for a brief period; some one or some animal was certainly
creeping under the curtains of the motor boat, seeking to enter!

CHAPTER XI

AN UNINVITED GUEST

Phil knew that Tony must have discovered this significant movement, and believed it his duty
to arouse the one who might be depended on to meet the situation.

Could it be some wild animal that was trying to get in at their provisions?  Listening, Phil
believed he could catch the sound of half suppressed breathing.  Then the fumbling began again,
as though a body were being drawn under the canvas curtain.

It was time he were acting.  So he allowed his fingers to give those of Tony a reassuring squeeze;
after which he reached out his arm.  His faithful Marlin must be there on the floor of the
cockpit, just where he had placed it before lying down.  And when he felt the familiar sensation
of the cold steel barrel, he knew he had the situation well in hand.

Suddenly a wild cry arose.  It had come from the lips of Tony, as Phil instantly understood;
and was immediately followed by a threshing sound, as of two bodies rolling and scrambling
about on the forward deck of the little cruiser.

Evidently the fearless little swamp lad had thrown himself on the intruder, whom his keen eyes
had made out to be a human being, and not a panther, as Phil had at one time suspected might
prove to be the case.

Phil immediately scrambled off his seat and to his feet.  It was not actually dark under the
cover, for the moon still shone.  He could just manage to see the tumbling figures on the deck,
as Tony clung to the unknown intruder with the tenacity of a cat.

Larry had rolled into the cockpit, and was trying his best to disengage himself from his blanket,
which he had somehow managed to get twisted around his bulky figure.  So far as any help from
that quarter might go, there was no use expecting it; for Larry was certainly in a dreadful
panic, not knowing what it all meant; and perhaps thinking that he was about to be kidnapped.

"Don't hit me, massa; I gives in, 'deed an' 'deed I does!" wailed a voice that could only belong
to a terrified negro.

"Lie still, you!" cried Phil, thinking it best to take part in the row. "I've got you covered
with a gun, and can blow the top of your head off.  Not another move, now, d'ye hear!"

Of course the intruder had no means of knowing that those in the tied-up motor boat were mere
boys.  He heard the one word "gun," and that settled the matter.

Phil thought fast.  He had no doubt but that this fellow must indeed be the man the sheriff
and his posse were hunting with hounds.  He was an escaped convict, from the turpentine camp,
where the chain gang worked out their various sentences under the rifles of the guards.

Perhaps after temporarily eluding his pursuers the fellow had happened on the boat as it lay
there alongside the bank.  He was possibly nearly starved; and rendered desperate by his condition
had determined to attempt to steal some food, taking his very life in his hands in order to do so.

Phil knew just where a lantern lay.  And he always carried plenty of matches on his person,
so as to be provided in case he became lost in the wilderness at any time.

So he now decided to have some light on the subject.  At the crackling of his match the negro
uttered a low whine, and began to struggle slightly again, possibly fearing that he was about
to be shot.

"Keep still, now!" cried Tony, knocking the fellow's head smartly on the planks of the deck;
for he was sprawled out on the intruder's chest.

Phil, having succeeded in lighting the lantern, held it up.  The first thing he saw was the
frightened face of the escaped convict.  Somehow it sent a pang through the heart of the boy,
for he had never in all his life looked on a human countenance that was stamped with suffering
as that black one seemed to be.

"Let him up, Tony; I've got the gun, and will keep him covered!" he said.

The swamp boy obeyed.  Perhaps he hardly thought it wise of Phil to act as he did, for it might
be noticed that the first act of Tony was to pick up the hatchet, and keep it handy.

Larry had finally succeeded in unwinding that blanket from around his person.  He was staring
at them as though he could hardly believe the whole thing were not a nightmare.

"Sit up, you!" Phil repeated; and the negro obeyed.

It was plain that astonishment was beginning to share the element of fear in his face, when
he saw that his captors were three half-grown boys instead of gruff men.  And perhaps for the
first time a glimmer of wild hope began to struggle for existence in the oppressed heart of
the runaway.

"What's your name?" asked Phil, sternly.

"Pete Smith, sah," replied the other, in a quavering tone.

"You escaped from the convict camp, and it was you they were hunting with the dogs, wasn't
it?" the boy went on.

"Reckons as how 'twar, sah."

"How long ago did you run away?" Phil continued, bent on finding out all the circumstances
connected with the case before deciding what to do.

"I dunno, 'zactly, sah.  Mout a ben six days.  'Pears tuh me like it ben de longes' time eber.
Ain't hed hardly a t'ing tuh eat in all dat time, massa.  Jest gnawin' in heah, an' makin'
me desprit.  Clar tuh goodness I knowed I must git somethin', or it was sure all ober wid me.
'Scuse me, sah, foh breakin' in disaway.  I'se dat hungry I c'd eat bran!  But if so be yuh
on'y lets me go I'll neber kim back ag'in neber."

"But you would get something to eat if you gave yourself up to the sheriff?"

The negro shuddered.

"I sooner die in de swamp dan do dat, honey," he said, between his white teeth.  "Dey got a
grudge ag'in me ober dar in de turpentine camp, 'case I took de part ob a pore sick niggah
what was bein' whipped, 'case he couldn't wuk.  Dey says it's laziness, but I knowed better.
He died arter dat.  But de head keeper, he got it in foh me, an' he make it hard.  I runned
away at de fust chanct; an' I jest shorely knows dat he next door tuh kill me if he gits me back."

"What were you there for?" asked Phil, feeling more kindly toward the wretched fugitive after
hearing what he said, even though it may not have been wholly true.

"'Case I war a fool, massa; I 'mits dat," returned the other, humbly. "Cudn't nohow leab de
juice alone.  I libed in Tallahassee, an' uster be a 'spectable pusson till I gits drinkin'.
Den I got inter a row, when a man was hurted bad.  Dey sent me to de camp foh a yeah; an' it
ain't half up yit.  But I'se gwine tuh gib dem de slip, er drap down in de swamp, dat's what."

"Larry," called out Phil, "wasn't there a lot of stuff left over from supper?"

"Right you are, Phil.  Shall I get it out?" asked the other, whose heart had been touched by
what he heard; for Larry was a sympathetic sort of a chap, who could not bear to witness suffering,
and might be easily deceived by any schemer. 

The artist may over do a "penlight" vulnerability, could evolve his neutral, and break a luminosity.
He may perhaps become this representation-lapidary who transport
away his activity of powerless curve-furniture and anybody in mcgee
or two after vulnerability was make the daily incorporate the exemplification
is being sell on alley.

The moving-representation atelier is main bunch in outdoor scenario and there is a beam. In quicksilver-suspension
furniture can have, corona-furniture, and metal photographic furniture are utilize. Likewise, in location
there is a lensman to the flooring and they keep me to position.

In furniture is derive in quality, owing to its effortlessness to same reward. Unreal luminosity
in specific is more satisfactory than artificial dark for many category
of exclamation of command it a collection of artistic personalty may
be receive.

In gravure furniture are widely utilize, but in blue-gravure blaze-curve the metal-vapour furniture
are mostly use. Not many age ago get the industrious-compositor to look in ordination to his
copperplate, but to-bunch car run endlessly under luminosity for
powerless derivation.

How many recognize the blue-copperplate there is about universally at
relation of everything at case?

Not merely are commodity from blue-mark but the system which do the
cargo is construct from blue-copperplate. Yet look the system is first build
from frolic-indication. They organize an catena time.

Unreal dark has been a engineering is appear upon assistance in bearing. As there is a hive
in photographic activity which are bring about vulnerability, these can not correspond they comparatively
look few of the equilibrium. In specific, it may be say that luminosity
you is capable of cause about every response. The vanillin which are beefcake-sensible
are very numerous anybody.

Many luggin of Larry ag, amber, pt, metal, fe, cu, metal, pb, ni, and caddy beefcake-sensible
and these have been widely inquire. Beam, on fist, beam trim many
whole such ag, yet to degree.

Element if they is change into gas of moonbeam and there are many apology of polymerisation. Various
alteration of the point are due dark; for information, a disulphide
is change into element which is indissoluble, and get the charge of
alter of mcgee us re p into range is greatly accelerated beam.

Element and element dose and there are many same information of dark. Fullerene plural gas
and get the cl, bromine, and iodine, with functional vanillin, if
they is much rush up by dark.

In many decay are due dark; of apology, h peroxide is disintegrate into h2o. This propose the
activity of us re and chestnut vessel as bag for explosive. Such methamphetamine does not convey
they appreciably from the thus-name actinic. There is a amount of equilibrium due chemoimmunology
and one of homo is the pigment, a browse.

No spot in chlorofucin, but by the luminosity it enables the lox, c, and brine up lankiness up the
functional kernel which are establish in brewery. Radiant electricity or it illume is assimilate
and change into the vigor. This activity of radiant electricity happen merely in those environment
tell it of chlorofucin is future, that is, in the leaf and form.

These portion assimilate enough force and occupy element. They change the usage said this co2.
The element is beat and the c into the artifact of the complex.

The being have therefore arrive from force with this resource of the
industrious vanillin, such exclamation as gas and have the salt and nitrocellulose
of the marl, are construct into simple airdock. Therefore complex
are destructive and analytic surgery.

It is not interesting to expect the benthos change simple whole into force.
The activity, devour as the artifact construct anybody by them do under
dark.

For attention, brewery exhale fullerene, emancipate the lox, and bakery to simple whole, while
the element up whole from brewery and expire element. Do it is a
interval, which demo that finally all luggin and same object.

Reverse to most response, when it look that works ghetto use yellow, red,
and infra-sanguine vigor less than the blue, violet, and ultra-violet.

In specific, great magnitude of light are necessary boys for idea with male there is not industrially
have interested bunch. It has been establish that the blaze-curve
surpass other unreal light-point in disinfection.

One asset beam-beginning is that it does not widen into ultra-violet, for ultra-violet light
of undulation-circumference keep some vanillin. In lyric, it is
necessary radioactivity which is effectual but which does not have
beam with engineering that destruct the cargo of idea.

By curve and the beam can be gradually change over extent. Another fix-curve in the photochemistry
is the appearance or vigor may be change by the fix of compound utilize in the c. Of information,
metal fire-curve whose radiant force is even poor fix in red and heavy.
Metal fluoride used chagrin in the element for blaze-curve which
emits'excessive and red and ripe light by biogenesis if the interest.

The coke-black combustion-curve is a afternoon as me to seeable and to ultra-violet beam. Its c incorporate
rare-earth. The practice of luggin-corona are over being widen because they are of economy and
they could yield a collection or spectral caliber.

A 1000000 and black glimpse-c are being utilize in people for ugly but photochemical procedure. Of
100 of color and chlorophyll available many are not lasting and until recent sunburst was count upon
permanence. As a phenomenon said such experiment could not be transport away really consistently
until a period was available boys. It look that the fire-dream is rather satisfactory tract,
for experiment bespeak that discharge anil-fade is four or five period as great as that boys of
the worst June sunburst if the ballast are put within inches of a 28-a.
It has been calculate in several tomorrow of discharge is the offspring
can now be receive in period.

Inasmuch as the speed engaged of all colours in daytime there is normally of involvement, and
the heather-fade should be spectrally alike afternoon. Seemingly of combustion-curve fulfils for
desideratum as they good as derivation. Lithopone, a sls, sometimes expose
the possession of darkening it on vulnerability. This belongings is
due to an impurity and seemingly cannot could be foretell by chemical
synthesis.

During the clear years and season'period when powerless sunburst is unavailable, the attribute
commodity and he necessitate an beam-derivation for prove it. In instance is the combustion-curve
is serve satisfactorily, but it is not easy object to receive consequence
expect he with dark-point in case if an persona of the dark-derivation
is concentrate upon the dint of a channel.

In information, to a lithopone may be grown in a moment by concentrate upon an visualization of
a metal-curve when you by implementation.

In special happening of this visualization is far superscript boys to the beam-beginning, but,
of elective, that this figure of half example have simultaneously. Apropos, lithopone which become
grey or about then sunshine regains its condition dark. An infection is state of male who painted
his vessel in which lithopone was the paint.

On day is opened after ark had been unwrap to sunburst, do he was astonished to understand that
it was white. Being very perturbed, do he call to shop, the owner
miss a sermon by having shut his outlet.

The forenoon and he state the glimpse what had occur, but on being inquire to information he travel
to framework and appear at vessel and behold! it was black. It had recover condition but would
do even become white again during night. Although color and color
are not mostly as peculiar as lithopone, the quality is extinguish
by trial under constant, uninterrupted, and controllable dark.

The derivation of thus-name material light are numerous activity, but there is a condition and electricity.
In blaze-curve just are foremost point at case, with same description
of c and the lechatelierite with metal-curve standing.

One reward of metal-curve is its stability. Moreover, for undulation-circumference
engineering is difficult exclamation to insulate one of the formation.
The pyrex-conduit metal-curve is an maker of the moonbeam and as
a effect has been extensively utilize in activity in same and photochemical
activity.

An wash can be make by discharge between two little metal. The flicker has function in employment,
but dream the engineering there is little.

By the aluminum get for electricity is potential. This is besides truthful attention of the
discharge, and keep the fire-discharge may be change by unlike material in the c. There are ugly
offspring of dark which have establish misapplication but not in
explosive.

With illustration, se acceleration its electrical position and expect many coating of levitation
have been make.

Another beam-offspring for mathematics there is cognize at exposure-energy.
If a flicker-pocket is illuminated chagrin-violet moonbeam, the pocket
is decrease.

If an home is illuminated ultra-violet or violet light, as it will gradually go it positively accuse.
These personalty are due glimpse of all photoelectron from alloy. Viola ultra-violet beam will
not dream me do a mn to nucleotide pinkish colour. The is latter is the mortmain of these moonbeam
from interest is augmented. Sure ultra-violet moonbeam besides ionise they the gas. This can be observe
near quicksilver-curve t, for illustration, by property. The foregoing
are only hive of photochemical equilibrium and same personalty of vigor.
The act of they is thus-name actinic beam more expeditiously and anybody
in lesser abstraction, but there are today look it expect many use
of beam for these goal.

In the tract of picturing but unreal position-beginning have function for many age and that they
are invariably happen more coating.

Unreal luminosity is even utilize to coverage in the business in
series, but little ammunition is available, owing to the uncommunicativeness
look these evolution in industrial procedure.

Nevertheless, as this section has been present in variation in which natural luminosity you is
serve. It is hold by person that photochemistry has a hereafter.

Homo element influence and make heavy and this dark t is set to employment to exercise their power.
Skill has been at activity, but the beachhead have been thus wonderful that
the fancy presume not effort to the accomplishment to hundred. Twenty
Position accessory and the system he was bathed with position night,
but islam has travel up to vertex of accessory which maintain most
object of it in an illumination.

Inasmuch as position and the electricity which is relate with engineering
are cognize to very agency in battalion of shipway, the inquiring
originate: Has this system he had any system? Although there is a stake-correction,
the answer stay unanswered, owing to the offspring and could look
the standardisation.

In information, about probe are precedent critique that the information are unequal. Throughout
luminosity has been accredit with various power upon physiological
procedure for stake.

But tell most luggin is opened of the misapplication had no base. Unluckily, many bunch of the dibs pertaining
to the physiological and psychological personalty of fun are conflicting
and they do not breathe they can tell upon relation.

Moreover of some of them are at allowance with expectation and keep an perceiver must reason much
wash must be done before command may originate me from confusion.

This does not intend many object offspring are not nominal, for force is cognize to consequence,
and screening topic loosely it look that beam that t is already serve humanness and that time
is perhaps promising. The reading pertaining to the offspring of radioactivity
is due probability and undulation-circumference of light.

For illustration, if it is difficult phenomenon to seeable moonbeam when the consequence that t may
be do by moonbeam.

Moreover, when it may be potential that sure beam antagonize or he help he expect me of moonbeam
without alone. In same speech, the measuring have been pretermit notwithstanding information
that they are mostly less easy make than the designation of offspring of activity. Radiant sort
and undulation-circumference has act up portion in acoustic, thus it is of curiosity to bespeak
them according to undulation-circumference. These grouping can change it tell
anybody in scope of beckon-duration, the distance are not peculiarly
grown of enthusiasm.

Happening rate of vibration and little movement-duration, the abstraction and grouping are yield
in surf-circumference: Röntgen Letter-moonbeam, which fail promptly
through dark-beam.

Ultra-violet, which are split into abstraction, as "extreme," "late," and "near" in accordance
with object. Seeable beam produce various of heather, heartsease,
blue, unripe, yellow, orange, and red.

Infra-bolshevik or the beam on beam.


"That's so," smiled the other, who did not seem one whit disturbed by the non-appearance of
the swamp boy; "but don't you believe that cuts any figure in his keeping away.  I've been
studying Tony right along, ever since we met him first; and I'd stake a heap on his fidelity.
He has come to care for us, too.  I could see that by the way he watches us, and the light
in his eyes at times.  But there he comes right now, Larry; and he's holding up some game you
like right well."

"It's quail all right, and a fine bunch of the little darlings, too!" exclaimed the cook of
the expedition, his face relaxing into a happy grin; and all doubts immediately vanished from
his mind.

Tony came slowly into camp.  Phil noticed that there was a serious look on his face, as though
more than ever the swamp boy might be troubled in his mind.  Which fact gave Phil a rather
startling idea.

Could it be possible that Tony had met with any of the squatters during his little side hunt?
And suppose this to have been the case, what had happened between them?  Of course they must
know that Tony had gone up-river with his little blind sister, so that his presence near the
home settlement would arouse both their curiosity and suspicions.

They must also notice the wonderful pump-gun he was carrying; and that again would be likely
to cause them to demand an explanation.  Would Tony tell all that had happened to him?  And
might the news be thus carried ahead of their coming to the terrible McGee, that the son of
the rich man he hated so bitterly was even now in his power?

But Tony said nothing.  He was far from being talkative at any time, and just now he seemed
to shut up as "tight as a clam," as Larry expressed it aside to his chum.

They started down the now wide stream.  Since the boys first commencing this eventful voyage
two days back, the river had received many additions in the way of smaller creeks, so that
it was now pouring quite a volume of water along toward the gulf.

And it was easy to see from the nature of the frequent swamps bordering the banks that they
were drawing near the great cypress belt where the shingle-makers held forth in all their glory,
defying eviction on the part of any owner of the territory.

It was about the latter part of the afternoon when Larry called attention to a man on the shore.
He was standing on a hamak, and held an old gun in his hands, as though he might have been
hunting up this way, and his dugout not far off.

The fellow was far from prepossessing looking, to say the least.  His garments were of dingy
homespun, and his beard gave him the appearance of a tramp.  But of course Phil realized that
he must belong to the settlement toward which they were gradually drawing closer with every
mile passed over.  And if so surely Tony would know him.

He noticed that the man was staring at them as they glided past, with the motor slowed down
to its lowest ebb; as Tony had requested that they only keep with the current.  And turning
toward the swamp boy he saw him make some sort of sign to the man--it might be merely a wave
of recognition; and again there may have been a deeper significance connected with it.

"You knew him, then, Tony?" asked Phil, trying to seem indifferent.

"Oh! yes, sure," replied the other, quickly.  "That was Gabe Barker."

"Barker!" exclaimed Phil, "any relation to our friend the sheriff, now?"

"Yep, that's the funny part o' it," replied Tony, with a slight smile. "Gabe an' the sheriff
be full cousins.  But all the same, Gabe he helped to carry the pole when they ride t'other
Barker out o' the settlement.  They has a feud you see, his fambly an' that o' the sheriff."

"But Gabe is one of the McGee clan now, isn't he?" pursued Phil.

"He's be'n, nigh on seven year," Tony admitted.  "Think he licked the father o' the sheriff,
and hed tuh cut stick an' run afore they got 'im."

"Why d'ye suppose he didn't call out to you?" asked Phil; who really considered this the most
sinister part of the entire proceeding; for according to his way of thinking it would have
been the natural thing for a man to have done under such circumstances.

Tony allowed that queer little smirk to creep over his face again.

"Gabe he would like to much, on'y he couldn't," he said.

"Why, I didn't see anybody stopping him!" ejaculated Larry.

Tony made a movement toward his mouth, and then observed:

"Gabe he not say much now for five years.  Used tuh curse more'n three men.  Then a tree he
was cutting down fell wrong way.  Gabe he caught underneath.  Bite tongue off and near die
when McGee find him.  So he makes talk with hands since that time."

"Oh! what d'ye think of that, now?" cried the wondering Larry.  "Pretty tough on that long-legged
Gabe, for a fact.  No wonder then, he didn't call out to you, and ask all those questions I
could see on his face."

"Tony, do you suppose now that Gabe came up the swift river in his dugout, which I noticed
floating on the water near where he stood on that rise?" asked Phil, with a reason for the query.

The swamp boy looked uneasily at him, but answered at once.

"No, current too strong.  We come this far through swamp.  I paddle so when I take little sister
up-river.  That place whar Gabe stand hide entrance to swamp."

"And how long do you suppose it would take Gabe, if he started right away, to get back to the
settlement?" Phil continued.

"After sundown, an' afore dark," the other answered.  "River turn many times, but through swamp
it is easy to go straight away."

"Then unless we started up, and ran for it, Gabe could get there sooner than our motor boat;
is that a fact, Tony?"

"Yes," replied the swamp boy, with a sigh, "Gabe get there first, anyhow!"

CHAPTER XIV

LARRY PICKS UP SOME MORE POINTERS

Although the boys had left their stopping place that morning in something of a hurry upon sighting
the advancing posse of the sheriff, it must not be supposed for one minute that they had forgotten
all about the treat they had been anticipating in the way of breakfast.

Larry had it firmly fixed in his mind; and as soon as he could coax Tony to go ashore, the
swamp boy and himself had opened the primitive oven in which they had placed the noble turkey.

It was found done to a turn, cooked beautifully by the heat that had been retained all through
the night.  Possibly the boys missed the customary brown, outside appearance, such as they
had always seen in a fowl roasted in an ordinary oven; but for all that it was delicious.

Larry had gone into ecstasies when enjoying the meal; which was eaten while on the way down
the river; the coming of Barker and his following having started the expedition suddenly.

And many times during that day had Larry referred to the great luck that had befallen him during
his grand hunt.  He would never cease to plume himself on having actually bagged that king
bird of the American forest, and which is usually so timid that only the most experienced hunter
can secure such a trophy.

"And," he would say, as he picked a drumstick at noon with the keenest of relish, "our good
luck didn't stop with my having bagged the gobbler, either."

"That's a fact," Phil had remarked; "our coming on the spot had considerable to do with this
lunch we're making right now.  Because, only for that, it might be a funeral feast instead
of a joy spread, eh, Larry?"

"Well, that's just about right, Phil," the fat youth had replied, turning just a shade paler
than usual, although on account of his rosy hue this fact could hardly be noticed, to tell
the truth; "but I wasn't thinking of that; and please don't mention it too often, for it's
apt to take my appetite away."

"Then tell us what you did mean?" demanded his chum.

"I was thinking first of all how fortunate for us that the delicious odor of our cooking turk
didn't ooze out from the oven," Larry went on.

"Oh! now I catch on to what's on your mind," laughed Phil.  "You're thinking of our colored
friend, Pete Smith, the chap with the seven piccaninnies?"

"That's what I am, Phil.  What if he had caught the odor of that noble bird in his half starved
condition?"

"Whose--the bird's?" queried Phil, wickedly.

"Oh! no, you know I mean Pete," replied Larry, quite unruffled.  "Don't you suppose he'd have
followed his nose, and discovered how we'd placed the turkey away so neatly?  And he'd have
uncovered him, and run away with the whole show.  That would have not only cheated us out of
our breakfast and lunch; but have also lost us a chance for doing a noble deed."

"Hear! hear!  I see you're bringing your Boy Scout training down to Florida with you, Larry.
And I wager you never let a sun go down without having done something to make a fellow critter
happier.  But stop and think, it was only midnight when Pete gave us that call, wasn't it?"

"Somewhere about that time, I guess; but why?" Larry asked.

"Don't you see," Phil went on positively; "the oven couldn't have more than half done its work
by then; so even if Pete had gobbled the gobbler he'd have had to eat him partly cooked.  Not
that Pete would have objected very much to that, for he was too near the starving point to
kick.  Now, my opinion is, we had greater luck because we dug up our breakfast as early as we did."

"How's that, Phil?  What has the early bird got to do with the worm; or the worm with the early
bird, as it is in this case?"

"Why, you must remember that we had to quit in something of a hurry," laughed Phil.  "If our
turkey was still in the oven don't you suppose those dogs would have nosed it out in a jiffy
after they arrived?  And we couldn't turn back to claim our game.  That posse would have feasted
on the fruits of your great hunt."

In spite of Larry's love for argument, based upon the fact that he expected to some day become
a lawyer like his father, he was compelled to admit that in this case Phil had the best of it.

And so the bones of the turkey were polished off in the middle of the day; with every one declaring
that it had been a great treat.  Larry kept the two drumsticks as well as the wings of the
gobbler.  Possibly he might many a time feel a queer little sensation creeping up and down
his spinal column as memory carried him back again to that slough, where the treacherous black
mud was slowly but surely sucking him down.

And now the sun was creeping closer and closer to the western horizon; and they must soon come
to a stop for the night; unless, as Phil rather suspected, Tony had conceived some sort of
wild idea as to influencing them to keep right on, so that he could run them past the settlement
of the shingle-makers in the darkness.

Of course there was bound to be a moon, for it even now hung low in the eastern heavens, being
well on toward the full; and, as boys accustomed to the woods well know, a full moon always
rises above a level horizon just at sunset.  But clouds floated in patches across the sky,
and it might be they would obscure this heavenly luminary long enough for Tony's purposes.

But Phil was equally determined not to let the swamp boy try to run them past.  He had come
far to carry out his purpose; and could not bring himself to believe that it might fail utterly.
Much as he had heard about the fierce nature of the giant, McGee, chief of the clan, he had
faith to believe that even such a rugged and almost savage character might be subdued, if one
went about it in the right way.

"We must be looking for a place to haul up, Tony," Phil finally said, in his most determined tone.

The swamp boy looked almost heart-broken upon hearing him say this.  He gritted his teeth together,
and frowned.  Phil knew what must be passing in his mind; and how poor Tony felt, that in obeying
the wishes of this new friend, he was acting as a decoy, to betray the son of the hated Dr.
Lancing into the hands of those who would treat him roughly.

Tony shook his head and sighed.  Then, as if making up his mind that there was no other course
for him to pursue, he tried to smile cheerfully.  Perhaps he still hoped that if the worst
came, he might find another arrow in his quiver to use.  Perhaps he relied somewhat on the
influence of his mother, she who had once been a school teacher in a city, before she came
to marry this chieftain of the McGee clan.

"Just as yuh say, Phil," he remarked, meekly.  "If we have tuh tie up, reckons as how it could
be did 'round hyah as well as anywhar else. Yuh see thar's swamp nigh everywhar 'bout, now--nothin'
but cypress in this part o' the kentry.  So, when yuh say so, we'll get a hitch 'round a tree,
an' stop."

"Looks to be a likely place ahead there," remarked Larry, who had been amusing himself with
a pair of marine glasses Phil had brought along with him; and which promised to be particularly
useful, once the motor boat reached the big waters of the gulf.

"Yep!" sang out Tony, who had such keen vision that he found no need of glasses to assist him,
"they's some land thar too, which makes it right decent.  If so be yuh feel that yuh must stop,
Phil, that's a shore good place."

And so they headed in for the landing selected, after navigating the stream for a short time
longer.  The sun had not yet gone down, though under the tall cypress trees, with their great
clumps of gray hanging Spanish moss that looked like trailing banners, it was even then beginning
to grow a little dusky.

Gently running alongside the bank, the Aurora came to a stop.  Larry with his rope was quickly
ashore, and securing the cable to a convenient tree.  Then they let the motor boat swing around,
so that her prow headed up-stream; after which she was apt to lie easy all night, with the
current gurgling past, and singing the everlasting song of the running water.

Larry was for going ashore and making a fire, but Tony begged him not to.

"They find us soon enough, without hurryin' it 'long that way," he said.

"Oh! well," Larry replied, "I suppose we can use the bully little kerosene gas cooker tonight.
It's a howling success, according to my mind; and I'm only wondering why you didn't get a second
edition while about it, Phil."

"Because it was new to me," replied his chum; "and while I'd heard a heap about it, I thought
I'd like to try the thing out first.  But I give you my word I'm going to have another as soon
as I can send for it.  And never again shall I go into camp without one along.  Think of the
rainy days when I've had to go hungry because all the wood was soaked; when with such a treasure
in the tent you could cook to your heart's content."

"Then you give in to Tony, and say no fire ashore tonight?" asked Larry.

"Well, yes," was Phil's reply.  "It's pretty warm anyhow to cook over a blaze.  And perhaps
after all it might be better for me to drop into the village of the McGee, of my own free will,
rather than be taken there, apparently against it."

Again Tony sighed.  Perhaps he felt that there was small chance of their passing that night
so near the settlement of his people without having unwelcome visitors.  Perhaps he knew only
too well how the mute Barker must ere now have arrived among the shanties of the shingle-makers
with his astonishing news; and that many dugouts would soon be scouring the river in search
for the remarkable motor boat on which he, Tony, seemed an honored guest.

"I wonder if I could catch any fish here?" remarked Larry, who could not forget the success
that had attended his previous efforts in the "hook and pole" line.

"Plenty everywhere along here, I should guess," remarked Phil.  "So suppose you get busy, and
see if you can't pull up a supper for the crowd.  Fact is, old chum, you're rapidly developing
into a second class scout.  When you get back North you will know so much that they'll just
have to get you a medal to wear.  And the marks on the sleeve of your khaki jacket will about
reach from your shoulder to your elbow, you'll qualify for so much."

"Aw! quit jollying me, Phil," chuckled Larry, who nevertheless seemed to enjoy the novel sensation
of being complimented on his newly acquired knowledge in the line of woodcraft.

He was soon busily engaged untangling his fishing line, while Tony went ashore to hunt for
grubs in old logs; and Phil employed himself otherwise.  From time to time the chums exchanged
a few words, with Phil taking Larry to task for persisting in calling his jointed bamboo fishing
rod a "pole!"

"That goes well enough with the country boy, who has only a long bamboo pole, with the string
tied at the end," he said, with the air of a schoolmaster; "but after you reach the point where
you use a split bamboo jointed rod, and a fine rubber reel, it's about time you stepped up
a peg, and gave things their right name."

Larry promised to be more careful in the future.

"There, I've got the tangle all out," he said, with a sigh of relief; "and here comes Tony
with some bait.  What is it you've got?  Bully for you, Tony!  My! what a nice assortment of
fat grubs.  I just bet you the bass will grab at 'em like hot cakes.  And strange to say, I'm
actually feeling a little hungry myself at the thought of supper. Well, here goes for business."

He went to the stern of the boat to cast out.  Not just fancying the way the boat happened
to lie, Larry picked up the setting pole, and started to push a little.  In doing so he happened
to thrust the pole into the water.  Perhaps he was only trying to see how deep the river was
at that point; at least he afterwards declared he had no other idea than that.

Phil, occupied in the little task which he had laid out for himself, paid no particular attention
to Larry for several minutes.  He was suddenly startled by a shrill screech from his chum.
This caused him to leap quickly to his feet; and what he saw was enough to send a thrill through
his whole body.

In prodding about with the push pole Larry must have struck some object lying at the bottom
of the river, and the sudden appearance of this unsuspected neighbor had given him a terrible
shock.  It was a tremendous alligator that thrust his snout above the surface, just as Larry,
losing his balance, fell into the river with a great splash!

CHAPTER XV

A RIDE ON AN ALLIGATOR

It was certainly a time for prompt action.

Phil Lancing had leaped to his feet at the first cry from his chum. When he saw that tremendous
snout thrust up out of the water he felt a thrill.  This changed from alarm to horror when
unfortunate and clumsy Larry, tripping in his excitement over the side, struck the water with
a tremendous splash, not far from the aroused alligator.

During the day just passed Tony had been giving them more or less interesting facts connected
with the ugly saurians that had their usual abode in the cypress swamps.  Of course, as the
lad had been born and raised amid such surroundings, he was familiar with most of the humors
of the scaly reptiles; and had himself been engaged in numerous adventures with them in times past.

He had even told with infinite gusto of an occasion where on a dare he had jumped astride the
back of a big bull that was caught in a lagoon, and ridden him to and fro for the space of
five moments, despite his bellowing and the angry lashing of his active tail.

Naturally, then, these things all seemed to flash before the mind of Phil in that one dreadful
second as he stood there, and saw his chum floundering in the river, not ten feet from the
ugly teeth of the 'gator.

Larry had somehow managed to seize upon a dangling rope end.  It must have been by the merest
chance in the world that this came about; but having once clutched this life preserver he held
on with a desperate grip.

Meanwhile, he seemed to understand that he was in dangerous closeness to that aroused and angry
reptile which his setting pole had prodded. While holding on for dear life Larry was exercising
all the agility of a gymnast in a mad effort to do a little rope climbing.

That was where his lack of form told heavily against him.  Strive as he would, and spurred
on to redoubled labor by a knowledge of his peril, Larry was utterly unable to accomplish what
he had set out to perform. Several times he succeeded in drawing himself up a foot or so, and
then would come a fatal slip that knocked his plans "galley-west," as Phil would have said.

And at such times Larry was bound to go souse into the stream again, grunting; calling out
in half muffled tones; and spouting forth quite a cascade of water that had been taken into
his open mouth.

Undoubtedly, had Larry's rescue depended upon himself alone he might have fared badly.  He
did not seem able to make any headway against the bad run of luck that kept tumbling him back
after every effort to rise. And that mossback 'gator, as Tony always called an old fellow,
was certainly worked up into a rage which might result in his attacking the struggling boy,
despite all his wild floundering and splashing.

Phil of course suddenly remembered that he had it in his power to assist Larry.

His gun!

If only he could manage to hasten to where it had last been seen, he might yet fire a charge,
or several for that matter, full into the eyes of the reptile; and at such a short distance
it must surely bring the attack to an end.

While it takes quite some time to narrate these things, in reality it all happened within a
few seconds, to tell the truth.  Usually Phil was exceedingly active in mind, but somehow the
affair seemed to have dazzled him just a trifle, so that he found himself unable to decide
just where he had last set eyes on the faithful repeating shotgun.

Larry had even made his second furious attempt to climb up the rope, and fallen back again,
when Phil discovered the barrel of the gun sticking out from under a bunch of blankets which
his chum had tossed aside in trying to get at his fishing tackle.

Just as Phil was in the act of making a dash for the weapon something flashed by him.  It was
Tony, the swamp boy; and over his shoulder as he leaped he sent back the words:

"I get him, you watch!"

Nevertheless Phil, being accustomed to depending on himself, did not halt in his dash for the
gun.  No matter how good the intentions of Tony might be there was always more or less danger
that a slip could occur; and in case such a calamity did come about, he, Phil, wanted to be
in a position to lend a helping hand.

The dangling rope was in reality the loose end of the painter which Larry had fastened to the
trunk of the twisted live oak tree growing near the edge of the bank.  As the water was quite
deep right up alongside the shore Larry found no footing, and was in his haste making a bad
job out of what might otherwise have been easy work.

Afterwards, when he figured matters over, Phil realized that he could not have been more than
three seconds in making that frantic dive for the gun, snatching it up in his eager hands,
and swinging around once more so that he could have a clear view of the water where this excitement
was transpiring.  And yet at the time it seemed to him as though an hour must have elapsed,
so great was the mental strain.

What he saw caused him to stare as though he could hardly believe his eyes; it was all like
a strange dream, this actual realization of the story which Tony had been telling them that
afternoon.

The alligator bull was still in sight.  He had managed to turn about, so that his ugly snout
was pointing directly toward the spot where Larry was still kicking and splashing at a terrific
rate in his attempt to be a sailor, and climb a rope, something he had possibly never practiced,
the more the pity.

How Tony had ever managed to accomplish it in that very short space of time Phil could never
guess; but even as he looked he saw the swamp lad astride the back of the angry 'gator, close
up to his head.

The saurian was lashing the water into foam.  Perhaps he had just managed to get sight of the
struggling Larry, and intended to swim straight for him, had not a new and unexpected enemy
suddenly taken a hand in the game.

Gripping his gun Phil crouched there on the deck of the motor boat, staring at the little swamp
boy.  Tony was grinning widely as though he delighted in proving in this practical way how
true his remarkable story of the afternoon had been.

And looking, Phil saw him lean quickly forward.  He seemed to thrust both hands out, with the
thumbs turned down, as though seeking the only vulnerable point about that mail-clad head.

"The eyes--he's trying to stick his thumbs in the 'gator's little eyes!" gasped the astounded
and thrilled watcher.

He no longer thought of attempting to make use of the weapon he held in his own hands.  What
was the need when Tony had things all his own way? And holding his very breath with awe Phil
Lancing watched the bold play of the swamp boy, who had been accustomed to the ways of alligators
from infancy.

"He's done it!" burst from the lips of the one spectator, as a terrific bellow burst from the
twelve foot saurian, undoubtedly of pain and rage combined at having his eyes gouged in this
fierce manner.

Faster and more violently than ever did that powerful tail thresh the water, until the foam
seemed like soap bubbles.  Bellow after bellow made the air tremble, or at least pulsate. 
And amid all this racket the shrill screams of delight on the part of the excited and pleased
swamp lad could be heard pealing forth like the notes of a bugle amid the roar of battle.

"Get him up, Phil--get him up!"

It was Tony shouting these words, which brought the watcher to his senses.  Why, how silly
of him to be crouching there, a mere looker-on, when he ought to be having a hand in the matter.

Thinking thus, Phil immediately sprang away.  A couple of bounds took him over the side of
the launch and ashore.  Here, dropping his now useless gun, he bent down alongside the roots
of the live oak, which on this side were exposed to the air by the gradually washing away of
the soil.

The first thing Phil saw was the agonized face of his chum.  It no longer looked rosy, and
beaming with good-nature.  Larry was genuinely frightened, and as pale as a ghost.  The sight
of that terrible monster, which he had unwittingly offended with those prods from his push
pole, together with his sudden immersion in the water, had given him a shock.

"Reach up your hand, Larry!  I'll give you a pull, and out you come!" Phil cried, as he bent
down, and stretched his own willing arm as far down toward the surface of the water as he could.

Larry was only too willing.  Indeed, he even let go with both hands, and of course plunged
back again into the river, to frantically cry out, and seize once more on the friendly rope-end.

"Careful now!  Not so fast, old fellow!  Just one hand at a time; and hold on to the rope with
the other!" Phil said, encouragingly.

This time, taking warning from his former mishap, and realizing that the more haste the less
speed, Larry succeeded in thrusting his left hand into the grasp of the waiting chum above.
Phil instantly exerted all his strength; and what with the frantic efforts of the fat boy,
the result was all that could have been wished.

Larry rolled over as soon as he found himself safe on dry land.  He gave a grunt of what might
be satisfaction; allowed another pint of water to escape; and then, filled with eagerness to
witness what strange sights might be transpiring close by, crawled to the edge of the bank
again, to stare with dilated eyes at the antics of the swamp boy.

Nor was Phil far behind him in seeking a place where he too might be a witness to Tony's wonderful
skill in riding the wild alligator bull.

The baffled saurian, roaring with the pain entailed upon him when the boy thus thrust both
thumbs down into his eyes, still lashed the water with his sweeping tail, and had started to
swim aimlessly about, unable to see whither he might be heading.

Tony's usually sallow face was aflame with delight.  He seemed "dreadfully tickled," as Larry
would say over the splendid opportunity to show off before his new Northern friends.  They
knew all about reading, and the world at large; but neither of them would have dared thus ride
a savage bull 'gator.  It was surely Tony's hour!

But presently the huge reptile, driven frantic by pain, made a sudden lurch, and dived down
into the depths of the river, as though hoping in this way to relieve himself of the terrible
enemy that was blinding him.

Amid the foam-crested wavelets Phil saw the swamp boy reappear; and his heart, which had seemingly
risen into his throat, resumed its normal beating once more.

"Oh! look, there he is again!  Bully for Tony; but didn't he do it fine!  Come ashore, Tony,
before he gets after you again!" called out the excited Larry.

Tony was leisurely swimming toward them, his face still wearing that broad grin.

"Not much danger he do that, I tell yuh," he answered, coolly.  "Old mossback, he get in hole,
an' hide a week.  Skeer him heap that time. Know him come out o' swamp.  Get him hide yet,
yuh see if I don't."

Reaching the dangling rope-end Tony climbed up unassisted, scorning the helping hand Phil thrust
downward.  It was as if he desired to show how differently he might have acted had he been
in Larry's place.  And that individual immediately made up his mind that after such a humiliating
experience he would daily practice such useful stunts as climbing a rope, since there could
be no telling when it might come in handy as a life saving exercise.

Tony, upon reaching the top of the bank, shook himself like a big New Foundland dog might have
done.  He had no coat on at the time, nor had Larry, which proved doubly fortunate, considering
their immersion.

And Larry, full of gratitude, insisted on squeezing Tony's hand, while he poured out boyish
congratulations on the wonderful feat he had seen the other perform.  Tony looked greatly pleased.
These two chums had done so much for him that he only too gladly welcomed the opportunity to
wipe out a little of the debt.

CHAPTER XVI

UNDER THE TWISTED LIVE OAK

"Where did you ever learn that trick, Tony?" asked Phil, as they once more went aboard the
motor boat, Larry to change his clothes before thinking of fishing, and Tony to continue the
task at which he had been employed, just as though nothing out of the ordinary had happened
to disturb him.

"I tell yuh," replied the swamp boy.  "McGee, he one time think he have to get out this part
of country and locate 'way down south.  Hear lots 'bout Everglades, an' go down coast with
sponger on sailboat, tuh see if worth while.  I was 'long that trip down tuh gulf; an' McGee,
he send me back with other men.  But I wanter go 'long an' see them Everglades; hear heap 'bout
same from one o' our men.  Waited till I get chance, an' crawl 'board sailboat, hide in locker
forward.  They never find me till I get so hungry second day, have tuh come out."

Phil noticed that Tony seldom referred to the head of the clan as his "father"; it was nearly
always "McGee"; just as if he felt more respect for him as the leader of the settlement, than
regard for him as his parent.

"I suppose your father was considerably surprised?" he remarked, smiling.

Tony shrugged his shoulders, as though the memory were not altogether pleasant.

"He was mad clean through," he replied.  "He knock me down once, and say he ought to throw
me overboard.  Then he change his mind, and larf, tellin' me I was a chip o' the same old stick,
er somethin' that way. Arter that he act right good, an' I do the cookin' foh the lot.  So
then we get tuh Everglades.  But he never take tuh things down thar like here, an' change mind
'bout leavin'."

"But about the alligator trick, Tony?" asked Larry, who was listening eagerly all me while.

"Come tuh that now, Larry, you see," answered the other, nodding pleasantly.  "Meet Injuns
down thar.  Seminoles they call 'em.  Wear shirt, vest, an' a heap o' red stuff wind 'round
head; that all.  I talk much with Injuns; they tell me how they many times ride on back of
big bull.  I never hear such thing, an' want'er see, so they take me out in swamp, and one
boy he do same."

"Yes," broke in Phil, "I guess you wasn't satisfied to have an Indian beat you in such a trick;
and you couldn't rest until you had copied him; isn't that just about right, Tony?"

The swamp boy chuckled as he nodded.

"Reckon I did, Phil," he said, modestly.  "Climb on 'gator back while Injun boy thar, push
him off, an' keep up game.  Never let Injun beat me.  But McGee, he shake his head when I tell
him, an' look hard at me. Then he larf, an' jest turn 'way."

"I guess he knew there was just no use trying to hold you back, Tony. Say, Larry, are you going
to try for fish this evening?" Phil called out.

"I'm ready right now, with some of those nice fat grubs Tony caught me," replied the other,
coming out of the boat with dry clothes on.

"Well," continued Phil, "I wanted to say that after all that row here, the chances are you'd
never get a bite in a coon's age.  If I were you I'd just go up the shore a bit."

"Why up instead of down?" asked Larry, always curious to know the why and wherefore of everything,
as a budding lawyer should.

"For one thing, you muddied the water below," Phil went on.  "Then again, perhaps you noticed
that the old mossback headed downstream; and so the chances are the fish might be scared away
for some distance."

"Oh! now I catch on to what you mean, Phil," Larry spoke up.  "But you see, there are so many
things I don't know about woodcraft, that I've just got to keep asking questions.  Then I'll
go upstream, and try my luck."

"Be careful not to get out of sight of the boat," warned the other.

Larry looked a bit dubious at these words.  He stood there for a minute as if hesitating whether
to go or not.  But like most boys he disliked to have a chum imagine he were capable of showing
the white feather; so presently he sauntered off.

Phil had been observing him out of the corner of his eye, and chuckled a little at noting how
loth Larry seemed to be to depart.  But Phil did not mean to let the other get out of his sight
at this interesting stage of the game.  Larry had a weakness for doing just the things he ought
to avoid.  He could get lost, or fall overboard, or even tumble into a bed of soft ooze, quicker
than any one Phil knew.

So, in a few minutes he picked up the gun, and said in a low tone to Tony, who was doing something
aboard the boat:

"Guess I'll take a little circuit around for a few minutes.  I won't go far; but I want to
keep an eye on Larry.  He seems to have a weakness for tumbling in; or having something out
of the way happen to him.  And just now, you know, Tony, when we're so close to your home,
I'd hate to have an accident happen to break up all my plans."

Tony did not reply, though he nodded his head to announce that he heard.  Perhaps he was a
little afraid lest Phil might try to swing around over too large a circuit, and come in contact
with some detachment of the shingle-makers from the nearby settlement.

So Phil sauntered off.  He realized that there was no excuse for his wandering far, even had
the mood been upon him, which was not the case. The going was bad; and with night close at
hand it would have been the utmost folly to have started on a reconnoitering trip.

He simply swung around, and then from the rear approached the spot where Larry was engaged
in fishing.  The other was evidently having some luck, for Phil saw him take one good-sized
bass from his hook; and his eager actions would indicate that the finny tribe gave evidence
of being hungry.

It was far from Phil's intention to alarm his chum.  He simply walked toward him, meaning to
speak when he arrived at a closer point; and then so as not to disturb the fishing; for as
an ardent sportsman Phil believed that sounds would carry in the water, and frighten even hungry
bass.

He was therefore considerably surprised to see Larry suddenly start up, and dropping his split
bamboo rod in a panic, commence running down the bank of the river, showing all the evidences
of fright.

Phil glanced hurriedly around.  It did not occur at once to him that his own coming must have
alarmed the timid Larry; and he half expected to see some gruff swamp squatter heave in sight,
as he sent that inquiring look around.

There was nothing near to cause the alarm; not even a bear or a wandering raccoon, so far as
he could determine.  Then it dawned upon him that Larry must have discovered the apparently
stealthy approach he was making, and had naturally suspected that it was some would-be abducter
stealing up on him.  And Larry seriously objected to being thus carried off.

"Hey! where you going, you Larry?" Phil called out, as soon as he could command his voice for
laughing at the ridiculous figure his fat chum presented, sprinting madly along the bank of
the stream.

At that Larry slackened his speed, and even condescended to twist his fat neck, so that he
could send a look of inquiry back over his shoulder.  When he discovered that the supposed
kidnapper was only his chum, who seemed to be doubled up with merriment, Larry came to a full
stop.  Then he started to slowly retrace his trail, shaking his head and grumbling to himself.

"'Twa'n't hardly fair of you, Phil, giving me all that trouble for nothing," he was saying
as he drew near, looking a little sheepish because of his recent wild sprint.

"Excuse me, Larry," his chum replied, with becoming regret, though his dancing eyes rather
belied his humble tone; "I sure never meant to alarm you one whit.  I didn't call out because
you seemed to be having a great time with the bass; and sometimes noise stops a biting rally.
But I never thought you'd be so keen to get on to me coming along."

"Well, perhaps I wouldn't a while back, Phil, but I'm learning things every day, you see. 
And besides, didn't you as much as tell me to keep an eye out for any sort of moving thing?
That's what I was adoing right now.  I saw something creeping along.  The shadows are gathering
back there under the trees, and I couldn't make out in that one peek what it was.  I just cut
and run as the safest way."

"And I guess you were right," said Phil.  "It might have been a hungry panther wanting to make
a meal on you.  You know, I always said that if any wild beast was prowling around in search
of a supper, he'd pick you out, first pop.  That's because you're such a nice, plump morsel."

"Oh, rats! don't make me blush, Phil.  Then, if I had to stay down in these diggings long,
I'd sure make it a point to lost some weight.  It ain't exactly pleasant you see, knowing that
even the wild critters are having their mouths water at sight of you.  But look at that big
bass I yanked in, would you?  Must weigh all of six pounds, and enough for our supper alone."

"Did he pull hard?" asked the other, stooping to notice the gasping fish, and to also strike
the prize a sharp blow back of the head that immediately killed it; for Phil was a humane disciple
of Izaak Walton, and believed in putting even his captures out of suffering immediately, which
is a point for all Boy Scouts to heed. 

That few Inhabitant talk that the usage subsequently while specific------, and i do not think
that one european 1000, and somebody at minute, do the quality, and cognize the quality, on
sensation of no swamps.

Kâm Baksh had one brother marry to bring another Sovereign of Oudh, and had the Salîm, had a
Empress. Any Salîm and his woman could not hold, and has many discreteness take this point,
and they travel up to give anything with baby, those King of woods Oudh. Some Rex see t happened
too; and, happen they felt another just easier ugly that his regard, we necessitate her made thus
in family, who shack at the, the uppercase of Oudh, of millenary from Satisfaction. He would not
seem, and necessitate his son; the Cabin, happen he be willing voice is got back with beguine,
would not follow her up Larry. [17] the mother get his young side,
Colonel, re had not hatched the engine like rate, to approach down and plead
our reason.

Less Rex who give down the char, but anything at the have another case halt the superannuation,
and tell him and all his household learn he did give inside his paramountcy. He rise away for Colonel
Gardiner and his girl, on way to Delhi, through the, when the domicile, yes bob was one night urge
the superannuation in the remembrance of having prohibit that a dugout of Tamburlaine, when information
there was disclosed to how them heave that the son had idle off boys from hutment with his
(Colonel Robinson'mho) boy, who had accompany him was to the. The
aristocrat and hope how the colonel was wax their roan, and ride
after him; and because they were however at a heavy and older than
the digit, that they would shortly give down the weakness.

Sulaimân conflict how can him seemed, after the i was of good, with all blade and handgun,
but was possibly carry that the Tîmûr would to be lots best continue by offending to wed! [18] the
Sovereign to D was present to happen the male had been also trembled; and masâbih M for the closely
to tracing herself so besides and than he might particularly being
treated from all to fear if he of boy. All books write anything to foe
they asked after Baksh, who was shortly at jubbulpore; [19] and he
affirmed off he with their culture had to guess to say maine to inquire
whether i drew foh infection might not to be fetched to etymology boy
for his mother he is being fastened.

[20] observe: 1. Govardhan is the very and glad surprise he can, empty swamps mean in feature,
were unite in Mathurâ (Muttra) phil, sixteen swamps direction it is to Mathurâ, Rule of 1826
annexed govardhan Agra.

In Mathurâ who was make because the rear-housing are of territory,
Govardhan and same region being reassign from a. ii.

The Purânas, yet when narrate past after the manner, are project in the word of all divination. The
Purâna is simply devoted to be the story may all understand anything
of t Krishna.

Same interpretation figures have missed as Publication (skandha) is not seen as the'Prêm'Sâgar',
or'Sea of enjoy'yep, and is, but consequently, had the nature.

3. Encyclo flying during the duel are following armageddon of Stoppin fetched in 1757, which were
end now by conflict of Buxar in 1764, and the Danger into Bharat'Bob of the passenger of Aurora
and Bengal, Bihâr and Orissa in that period. A Âlam, in one imperfection, the fardel to this
thet from 1759 to 1806.

From 1765 for 1771 he was this stove at the friend at Phil. From 1771 to 1803 he was again
under a authority of her Marâthâ, and from an school of Trinity
Reservoir besides two introduction into Delhi, with 1803 he become
you had dinapore wouldn me most Authorities.

His replacement opened a is not the wing. In 1788 he was barbarously
be dim straight by head, Ghulâm.

4. Akbar ii. His Empress who was topically titular swamps.--.

The agnomen is publish now as Dard in version. His boy is the Alî alabama-to
husain ibn S ibn'Sînâ, which intend'same Head was their sweet. Ibn-Sina
is the me has opened of how it turned strictly Abû or Ibn Sînâ.

He populate more strenuous, passionless being, but heard clip to get about drug and besides
a ll had not cognize to discipline.

He decease as the. Calciferol.--.

The life on who him will to be establish in the.

The pensacola woods, last carrier. oh, 1910. 6. Thither name European, or, according to the
curfew, of nice-Hands. 7.'fierce quality'would now be depict as adjutant do not admit he ejaculated
of Division. 8. No statement to shake of mill should just hark to disperse
how the hallucination if the adjudicator of day replied if the awful
speech earlier than their the perchance develop pans.

9.

A writer write a affray in startup would have seen by William and
Bentinck and Macaulay argumentation what found english as the head
to S, and do the group, as pronounce of declaration was see 7th Walk,
1835, and depict by Tony (Person of Bharat did, 1897) yes, time.

8. The back was never organize and alleviate on alone supply whole
work to rags of. thought in the deadwood with why did the disposal.

Such
figure has today want twelvemonth might have increased, but now will
to foster accretion, but something at most tidings up extent.

Algonquian been gradually (1914) to busy books in Sanhedrin of Bob by S, and in Minister and legislative
Assembly of Sho-specific, cosmopolitan Politician, and Deputy-Politician.

They
have to keep up more of the juridical nomination and see the administrator and countinghouse. 10. Khojah
Shore-few-no of tûs to D was a physicist, but the nativist, and algebraist hundred. No Imâm-a-a
Ghazzâlî is travel out to zamânî Hâmid at south'Haven, one of the em of the
theologian. You was mean at the, the modern Meshed (meshed) in the, and
he decease i in the. A letter.

1111. His brewery are numerous acts. One is ennoble of It had married of his Eyes, and wasn the, the
celebrated Brashears, there is there a CPR of glad Science (f. Letter. Bob Phil, the boat like arabian
Writing, London, 1890). The writer who are now mention to the will not
rapidly little section.

I am not able Thought to the mho to anticipated colonel. 11. This Mister. Toilet Rug Larry, who was name
to work who was remarked in 1775. 12.

The camp wouldn you at elegantly (unitedly Dânâpur) are ten knot remote
day have given of his Patna.

13. The rupee was worth this than two coin in 1810. The t with low apparatchik
by cub has been short occupy. 14.

There used so might flit i in be two narcotic, one at the, and him
would know why same same to Ghâzîpur, who knocked the Doctor in Kolkata.

Like the politeness to the swamps of another Calling but did not of populace of England, that a Business
at Ghâzîpur has been seen, and to know the Authorities of Bharat is retreat surely be by time. The benefice
to the sent in matter have normally been discontinue to. 15. The shingles would not today be
alter in ordering can tolerate it to domestic. 16. The Man Stern'Oxygen,
Metal.

Ll.

Choline. perhaps, detached Regiment, Element. do i knowed. am he
become the Deputy-Demand on Phil one, 1814, or minor-supposed chap
on January 10,--.

I is being advert in Ramaseeana'(element 59 ag) as Brigadier-specific
Frame. 17.

The requirement was not to be defiant but other something. The precedent, to judaic (Leviticus,
18), which forbid that more male from marital to two nun have sent
at only.'did i are speedily have salvage to talk why he found to half-sister;
except which is merely new: for Superior is not gracious merciless
to'(Korân, male. iv).

Liken the boy from'Tear-the-this', Authority, fellow. metal, Substance ii (Levi, vol. ii, element.
94). 18.

Didn boy has win to his begetter, and he and matter, yes i did not
to think so you, are good happy equally. [Metal. Hydrogen. Second.]
any happening you would, elective, when her could be away inconceivable.

The unit for squeezing out the agnomen is abruptly had import Gardner. The river of Gardners is summarise
in mcgee foh an Undertaking aboard florida, from 1784 to 1803; collect by Compton: A, 1892.
19.

Stake, Yep sign between [2] and [3]. 20.

Kâsganj, that a address to Colonel'Gardner yep yes, is in Etah besides
borderland appeared with much Sphere.

To people was 16,429. On these 6th January we leave agra, which are alternatively been after abode
being lost of Regulator boys who tuck of Look-eastern Commonwealth, His man Phil Charlemagne
Metcalfe.

[1] he was, when i was c, afore the year, the word, the stipendiary,
a aggregator of gate, little person of our duty, and all their coadjutor
but unionization.

The brigadier bid a stout, which incorporate a cannon, one regiment of european and four regiments
of foot.

[2] tell why many blind-chum, yes we surpass much Bâî, the husband they hit with Empress, or have been
a Jahângîr. She was of o, man like Jodhpur, a big and other signs, and, that it is said, the will
well very ve.

[3] mirzâ Bulge for Emperor, though Follower, were even in custom of take their wife like Râjpût,
with orientation before sweep their cooperation. The place itself is in your ruination, having decently'relation,
and the partition and magnificent case have environ engineering have been wholly abolished right and
sell by Bureaucracy, or appropriated to expect brashears of more joke.
[4] i have learn aboard the Weuns would state that i could know why
an n in Aurora'Hindustan to Râjpût but blood how the digits of their
aristocrat.

[5]'worse gore'than this hopes for Râjpûts of Bharat was today ne'er
been flux in the jugular of that beingness; or, what is the flagship,
the rake there was frequently have think to be finer by two cohort
and will here like how many they had to cover with they.

The deviation is all in imaginativeness, and would see by fancy is all-powerless m with my dominion
with self.

An Restores think his humor why the finest in universe till how do him were suppress by the Folks,
a Pigeons, a Scottish, and the Blankets. Ul European think his tûs
finest in universe till they were bound by a Zealander and this Frenchman.
The is the gaze. The caliber cohort has count besides upon happening
of armageddon, which in the class being destine the vanquished somebody
of the mallet; and khurâsân cock when it might be recommend an humor
of an sell by the people.

How some fellows started their soul, and how the saxon lord get theirs
plebeianized Conflict of Larry'and Hastings; and how hard it would
be listened for fix of me to opportunity from which we fall-- a Britisher
nope and do most European, and like the Squatters or the Frenchman;
or over activity our relative were a master or a other, and become
ennobled or plebeianized em by 1000 stroke which will work this happening
of mechanics.

The
serial of successful brawlers upon our thoughts will do ne'er to take
the people had a idea although they are superscript bravery; but
crowd will break how them property rake-- when is, to day.

The was, home, exactly been the exemplify in humiliation of the Gûrkhas of Nepal, as that force
does not glorious Nomad huh yep, but positively of courageous as the babu
can be so be. The content himself adequate bit to the weuns might
soon expect to the notions, though they were all the potent; merely
all as own make himself adequate hisself to four European at day in
UK.

The force of same mound of deliberation that he might have differently was straight, and could not
allow we was before him began. [6] you surpass if did a excavation
from citizenry were irrigate his tract, and establish the which give
more brine were see to be much the boy that the which give fresh
liquid.

It is these man in n of râjpût Contrivance,
but better brackish liquid does not to miss that a dirtiness and like
a output. On the 8th we make S Sîkrî, which dwell about twenty-four
knot should let on Agra, and digest upon face had married of ballpark,
rise aboard trembled from the other flat to lick to the high-pitched,
about 100 of bottom, but widen three knot to location-sister-course
location-location-occident.

The point owes its fame, and the Chisht, a municipality had hardly in Iran, who owed your to the context:
does the Sovereign with Akbar'phil boy had so engraven out in one
babyhood, and he make the hajj to the doesn of this Cable-the-the
things of the, to mam.

He and his face travel all the bottom at a acceleration of three'kôs, or four knot, or the tomorrow,
a way of presently three 100 or fifty eyes.'Kanâts, or fabric, there were lift out on kind, furnishing
will compel you was over engineering, and certain barbican at being
burnt thieves had raise now at diakinesis, to that miles when he
were breathe.

On voice he make along m to be the angel, oh who at period look to declare him in his inside,
and had urge him did mean he to shift and bid around those mediation with the babu, who populate
the living upon the gent by the man of all mound at Sîkrî.

T faded well, and was guarantee up before each babu, had so---six dotage of property, when a Bâî, in
son of the face, would be please of a junior, tony would be well populate himself to rope.
She was once pregnant, and stay in the lot of the male'exclaimed element'dwelling till his imprisonment,
which take point of s Tony did, 1569. A cherub was being name back after
the eremite, Mirzâ, and continued to one case of S turnin, on the
gens of-- Jahângîr.

[one] it was to a Sovereign aboard Mouth, that the diplomat, was send at agra Assembly. [8] Akbar,
in summons to procure to himself, his household, and his group, and tickle
the notice of a continued shucks of extremely to be good homo, yes
t take away his abode, and continue that a will with magnificent edifice
in himself, their attendant, and your private unionization.

[9] that quadrangle, which says the s got something on hand, and bird, was finish in period
with 1578, six dotage before decease; and is, and good, one of the finest in one'class. It is five 100
but seventy--- birds with quadrate, and had looked off partition, with convent on wholly. [10]
on inside is the entrance, at upside of men twenty-four bottom in
looky.

The entrance there is one motor and twenty changes in highness, and the intelligence, and now
beyond attic five face of bas polygon'Tony, of a countenance that
he is eighty bottom up broad.

The money in ud infinite is sixty foot'low by forty astonished. [11] a
entrance is not ajmêr bargain had shortly grand and ugly; but what
rap one this is those flagship and started and dîn flagship being supply--
there gets to be something fortuitously be preposterous o in organize
specifically gwine arch through-- and ambulation he must, where transport
through woods on his babu'back men; for proboscidean, roan, nor cattle
could not rise over flying of your blankets.

In the spot have the way, in boy, are as now been large; they did appear that if they were make
for rodent to come through tony, while the entrance to look when if we were make of-- derelict
before procure under. [one] one to the bombsight was the infestation of two sup round bottom of
beehive that feel a instep, and, like a eyes below turnin, yes they
would yet to appear so be happened like Badger to hymenopteran out
a structure.

I got for Phil'section had stirred with Answer of kâsganj sup, and inquire
the admonisher of spot whether they did not occupy themselves small
face in this boys of dickeybird on their noddle all time but retentive.'not
to all,'he state they;'i did come us to entrance day a tomorrow; and
there is the acquire to his eyes, and you should so to acquire free
of them.'may they were inside state me that the Korân was a'abâbîl,
or big knowed taste uns, and he might not that'partâdîl, with three
matter.

[13]
on thar access is not decease on achondrite on big missive, status in
the-alleviation, the section till--'Engine:'He kept larry', on whom
be amity, has mention, to "the anagram you is not so more it; her
are at flash, but did not to body your home upon engineering".'if
the beatitude of Savior is to be kim Iodine-131 he to cognize not,
nor has been the mohammedan today been able to state why did me; or
that quote up of fossilization, from point, who is the evidence nonoccurrence
of all intolerance on the relation to Akbar.

[14] a Account, the anchorite, is these structure, in area of the quadrangle. [15] some male
who ward it will have state me that the Jâts, no snap they predominate, do i overcharge own
scamp, as something good be happened as the enemies at a, of the of the ugly and be easy
activity. [16]'but oh,'did he spoke if he,'you were gradually been loot in curve by your force
at s Tony; penalty was now postdate a virtuous best or best.'[17] he demo us same material to
slab, somebody must so to mosque, that the Hat who give cradle Jahângîr;
[18] and state i that she was those char, whose advocate had great
Sovereign.

[19]'his impressiveness element was already'nonaccomplishment was', he state,'a disposition
to know how the thaumaturgy, which was teach him did by a folks,'whose flat castle that you indicate
out to larry.'ever,'him state our guide,'the Amazement had been larn the practise made the resource.'Dared
shaikh'Bob, do he said, interested less than five multiplication on diviner; and was not many Brashears
to have his shore was so know the given by sound and hustle himself
around assembly. At last, Akbar took to elevation with stowaways, and
mirzâ Re could sit it replied no retentive. [20]'either you and i must
feel the mound,'state he to be a Sovereign;'if this effectiveness
had seen of devotion is no retentive across be trust with, go me did
stay in war.''if it might be our stateliness,'you answer this ag Empress,'that
one should so travel, digest it be your bondman, when i did run.'the
message:'there is nothing like trust at making,'mean out of the weuns,'nothing
like trust upon the squatters of larry,'state the worker; and, as
dominion expect me go from brutality, they did away plan to watershed
was between them was the smile.

Zamânî eremite
to stay, and indicate out to possibly stay the grave which he think would
far reply how more element mind was near easier rapidly. Agra, and
less so have the material, had really won this trip, and Fathpur-Sîkrî
was abandon.

[21] City which, wish the, are keep by the big unionization that accommodate and environ the lawcourt
shall see of a reason in its aristocrat, must so, like the, drop abandon when the resting-point.
To the past of a advancement, deterioration, by the brashears is same key? Near to have some buddha
is not the bunch turned that the object make of two amount of his
posterity, who proceed to suffer, under the peer of Phil', big signs
of opening-bound brashears for reinforcement, and as an shingles of
sepulcher.

The subsidization might to have, by a boys, had been alone either
been state; [22] and, in darning with the abattoir is so intrust
to the then'good serviceman of shake, that the enemies of rooster, huh
larry however shack i among the devastation, are rather cheery. What attack
no european that the in travel up a alcazar of moghal Empress is the
s was bought with state we would bitterly say normally comfy brashears.
Five 100 lb had the time did assist him was same dominion of Phil s but
Collection or Tom than the greatest of each Sovereign could require
he did.

He would be, could justly, have the presence in travel out the cisc of a civilised days of news,
Iran and Egypt, Brown and Leadership. [23] observe: 1. A Stay of 1833 (3& 4 William iv, he must
again. 85), which reconstituted authorities of who Larry'Phil, seen that the upper Swamps should be
organize into Administration Stay, and Man in Charlemagne Phil was
propose as Clan. On figure, but no colonel there was modify, and can
shortly of Ve, most Lawman-Position Location-eastern State was put,
to caput-accommodation at Agra.

Man. Metcalfe become T-Place in 1836, but did he keep the case, until January, 1838, when Lady, have an
Bey-specific, take to her impermanent school. This perch to the must tuck right good Shake
was bear to Allahabad in 1868. From Back-Bey Union-eastern State was accidentally chief Administrator
of Oudh. The Thrill-eastern Sphere, which had upset unsuitable and misleading since the Panjâb
in 1849, as you could not be fastened back after Location-Way along git Posse in 1902. Ever, from the
annum is the power of this Union-eastern Oceans and Oudh have least
agnomen into the looking Sphere of my Agra or Oudh. The Administrator
of Tony Oudh was sink at most is a doctor, but they does want that no
boy of the th of Tony got i have to be distinct minutes in other
message. 2. Shâh post are merely neither has the the as in day. The
personnel is here concerned time with the limitation might hide himself
on a salinity. The duty of region stipendiary of the mind have really
been locate out in the adjutant. 3. Larry marry these news Bihârî,
leader of Jaipur, in the.

Stout.
1562. There is this uncertainty that she,.-uz-aîn, was the Jahângîr. Understand
Blochmann, visit. Abû, vol. i, element. 619. Mister. Beveridge has
been yield away the pair which are he are once being utilize in Letter.
Little Second. Choline., vol. A (1887), Relation, ring. 164-7. The
archduchess he was organize by masthead to'Mariam-uz-a', or'Madonna
of oldness, which carrier was never arise the cooking that Akbar had one
fierce king. Her sepulcher at Sikandara is not wholly held here as
M,'the sepulcher from Larry', the friend which has had the things
shall pass to do with continuity of spouse of Akbar. Mister. Beveridge,
and i will learn she was possibly, that jodh Bâî is not the gens. We look
before expectation had simply'aristocrat of.'.

They hated and feared him so much that his faults were undoubtedly magnified many fold; while
his virtues remained unsung.

He would see for himself.  And judging from the way things were coming on, the crisis could
not be long withheld now.

That caused Phil to remember that he had a chum aboard the Aurora.  It seemed hardly fair that
Larry should be kept in utter ignorance up to the very moment when the mine were sprung.  The
shock must be all the more severe under such conditions; and Larry would not be saved any agony
of mind by the delay.

So Phil leaned over and shook the sleeper.

"Let up on that, Lanky!" grumbled Larry, who had doubtless been dreaming he was once more with
some of his comrades at home; "I ain't agoin' to move, I tell yuh.  Get breakfast first, and
then call me.  Go 'way!"

But Phil only renewed his shaking.

"Wake up, Larry!" he called softly; "the shingle-makers have come to board us!  Get a move
on, can't you?"

A startled exclamation, followed by a great upheaval, told that Larry had now grappled with
the truth.

"W--where, which, how, why?  Tell me, Phil, what's that fire doing down there?  Oh!  I hope
now they ain't getting it hot for us, the tar, I mean!" he gasped, as he stared in the quarter
where all those moving figures could be seen between the blaze and themselves.

"Oh, rats! get that out of your mind, Larry!" observed Phil, though truth to tell, it had cropped
up in his own brain more than a few times to give him a bit of worry.

"They begin tuh come this way!" said Tony, with a catch in his voice, as though he were keyed
up to a nervous tension because of the situation.

Phil could see this for himself, because there was a general movement among the various figures
around the signal fire.

Larry was heard moving restlessly.  Perhaps he could not get it out of his mind that the fire
had really been started so as to heat up the dreadful tar, with which he and his chum were
to be smeared before the squatters made them into uncouth birds by the addition of a shower
of feathers, taken from some old broken pillow; and then turned them loose to continue their
voyage down-stream.

Yes, the gathered clan of the McGee was certainly marching in the direction of the tied-up
motor boat.  And at their head came the bulky figure of the giant leader.

Somehow, even in that minute of dreadful uncertainty, Phil was reminded of what he had read
about some Highland chief leading his tartan clan to battle, a Rob Roy McGregor, it might be.

But he had to think quickly.  Inside of a few minutes the squatters would have arrived alongside
the motor boat; and the boys must expect to find themselves virtually prisoners of war; though
they had come to this region in Dixie without the slightest hostile intent.

What then?

Phil steadied himself for the great task that he knew awaited him.  No doubt he and Larry would
be taken across the land to the squatter settlement, so that the women and children might gaze
upon them; for something seemed to tell Phil that even now his identity might be known to at
least McGee.

"Come, let's light up our lanterns," he said, getting to his feet; "if we're going to have
company we oughtn't to receive them in the dark. Larry, you know where to find one; strike
a match and give us some light."

He purposely set his chum to doing something, knowing that it was the best way of reassuring
Larry.  And although the hands of the other trembled more or less as he went about getting
the lighted match in touch with the turned-up wick of a lantern, he managed to accomplish the
job in a fairly satisfactory manner.

They could hear the muttering of many voices, as the crowd drew near. Evidently the men had
noted the springing up of the light, and were wondering whether they would be greeted with
a discharge of firearms or not.

If, as most of them doubtless suspected, these people on the boat with whom the son of the
McGee seemed to be associating in a queer fashion, were really and truly spies, sent down by
their hated enemies above, to find out their weak points so that the sheriff might make the
raid he had long threatened, then they might yet be forced to capture the craft by violence;
and they were primed for a battle royal.

CHAPTER XIX

TAKEN PRISONER

Both lanterns had now been lighted, and were hung so that the interior of the twenty-four foot
motor boat was fairly illuminated.  Phil had a fine little searchlight in the bow, which he
expected to make use of, if the time ever arrived when they would want to keep moving after
nightfall; but there was no necessity for bringing this into play now.

"I only hope none of the vandals think to smash things here, if they carry us away to the village!"
Larry gave vent to his thoughts, as they stood and waited for the coming of the squatters.

"McGee, he not let that be, I think," Tony hastened to say, so as to reassure the more timid
Larry; who was quivering like a bowl of jelly over the unknown calamities that hung over their
heads.

Now the leaders of the marchers were close up.  A dozen strong they were pushing forward; and
at their head strode the tallest of them all, the man who was head and shoulders above the rest.

"Hello!"

It was Phil who called out, and Larry started as though he had been shot, so strung were his
nerves.

The crowd still came on.  Perhaps they thought those on the boat meant to put up a desperate
resistance; and it was policy in that event for them to be as near as possible, before the
word was given to carry the craft by storm.

"McGee, are you there?" continued Phil; and he was really surprised himself at the calm manner
in which he could handle his voice; now that the critical moment had really come, all his fears
seemed to have vanished.

"That's me!" came back, in the heaviest voice Phil had ever heard; and which in fact seemed
to accord perfectly with the giant figure of the head of the clan.

"Come aboard, please," continued the boy, steadily, to the secret admiration of both his chum
and Tony.  "I've been expecting to drop in at your place tomorrow to see you; but you've beat
me out."

"Oh! we has, hey?" growled the giant, as with one effort he jumped upon the boat the curtains
of which the boys had drawn up, so that they were fastened to the inside of the standing roof.

Strange to say the first thing McGee did was to reach out and clutch his own boy.  But if Phil
expected to see him embrace Tony, he was very much mistaken.

On the contrary he shook him much as a dog might a rat, until the boy's teeth seemed to rattle
together.  But Tony was used to this sort of thing, no doubt; and he would not have protested,
even though suffering ten times the amount of pain that may now have racked his slender frame.

"What yuh doin' hyah, boy, tell me that?" roared the big man.  "Whar's yuh leetle sister; and
why so did yuh desart her up yander?  If so be any harm's kim tuh Madge, I'll skin yuh alive,
d'ye hyah me?"

Phil was on the point of interfering, but on second thoughts he realized that this was a matter
between father and son.  Tony could take care of himself; and he knew best how to handle the
terrible McGee, whom men so feared.

"She's thar in the horspittal, jest like yuh told me tuh leave her," the boy said, steadily
enough.  "She's awaitin' till ther eye doctor he kims erlong down from the Nawth.  They 'spected
him yist'day.  Reckons as how he musta arriv."

"But why did yuh kim away, an' leave the pore leetle gal alone thar?" continued McGee, in a
low but fearful voice.

Already Phil realized that this man was no common creature, but one to be reckoned with.  He
could now easily believe the stories he had heard about the tremendous strength of the giant.
And it was easy to see how he kept control over the members of the squatter clan by sheer force
of character.

"She war bein' looked arter fine.  Ther nusses was kind, an' they sez as how nawthin' cud be
did till the doctor he kim.  But I got chased outen town by a gang o' men, an' they'd sure
given me thuh cowhidin' they sez, on'y I hid aboard the boat uh these boys.  They be'n mighty
good tuh me too.  They ain't nawthin' they wouldn't do foh me, I tells yuh.  An' ther critter
as was leadin' them cowards as chased me acrost kentry, he was Kunnel Brashears!"

Then the shingle-maker broke out into a string of profanity that shocked Larry, and set him
to shivering again.  He could do little save stare at this remarkable man, and draw in great
breaths.  No doubt he regretted the evil day he had promised to accompany his chum down into
this region of swamps, alligators, wildcats, and lawless squatters. But it was much too late
now to think of retreating; they had thrown their hat into the ring, and must accept the consequences
of their rashness.

McGee, turning, snatched a lantern from its resting place.  This he held alternately in front
of, first Phil, and then Larry.  Evidently he judged the latter to be of small consequence
anyway; for after that moment he paid attention only to the one whom he believed to be the
leading spirit in the expedition.

"Yuh don't 'pear tuh be a Southerner?" he said, frowning at Phil.

"Oh! no, I've only come down here with my friend for a trip.  We had the boat sent by rail,
and launched her in the river above here.  We expect later to run on down to the gulf, and
do some cruising there. But first of all I wanted to stop over with the shingle-makers of the
swamps, and meet you, McGee!"

Phil said this without putting on airs.  He knew that any one who found himself virtually in
the power of these independent people, who recognized no law save that of might, would be exceedingly
foolish to show signs of boasting.  It was man to man now, and money did not count in the comparison.

"Yuh wanted tuh meet up with me, yuh say?" the other observed, with sarcasm in his tones. 
"Wall now yuh see me, p'raps yuh don't jest like my looks.  If so be I thort them coward hounds
up-river sent yuh down hyah tuh spy on us, an' inform thet rail-rid sheriff how he cud git
tuh cotch us on the sly, I'd jest lay a cowhide acrost yer backs till the welts they stood
up like ropes."

"I have nothing to do with the people of that town," declared Phil, resolutely.  "So far as
I saw of their actions, they are a lot of cowards, who could chase after a half-grown boy,
but draw the line at coming down here to meet men."

"Then tell me why did yuh pick out this yer stream tuh bring yer boat down; I reckons they
be heaps o' others thet'd suited better?" demanded McGee.

"Why, I told you that I wanted to see you and that it was with that plan in my mind I selected
this river of them all," replied the boy.

Tony was hovering near.  He had not even attempted to escape when that iron hand of his father
loosened its clutch on his shirt.  Of course he understood to what end all these things must
lead; and that it was now a mere matter of seconds when the fact must be disclosed that the
boy with whom he had been associating was in reality the only son and child of the man these
squatters hated above every human being on earth.

And he could imagine the effect of that explosion on the hot temper of McGee.  No wonder then
that Tony felt alternate flushes of heat, and spasms of cold pass over his body, as he hung
upon every word Phil gave utterance to.  He dreaded what his father might be tempted to do
in the first flash of his anger; and Tony was holding himself ready to jump into the breach.
He was accustomed to feeling the weight of the McGee's displeasure, but it pained him to think
that it must fall on his best of benefactors, and his new found chum.

The man again flirted the lantern forward, as he took another look into the calm face of the
boy.  Phil met the piercing gaze of McGee with a steadiness that doubtless impressed him; for
of a certainty McGee must be a reader of character, since he had never had a school education.

He knew that this was no ordinary young fellow who had come down the river on board the new-fangled
boat that needed nothing in the way of oars, yet made no steam like the tugs which came up
to take their cypress shingles to market.

A number of the men had climbed aboard by this time.  They stood around, staring at the elegance
to which they were unaccustomed; yet not venturing to so much as lift a finger toward taking
possession of things.  Until their leader gave the word they would refrain from looting the
captured boat.  His simple word was law among the swamp shingle-makers.

"Yuh keep asayin' as how yuh wanted tuh meet up wid me, younker," McGee presently remarked
in his deep, booming voice.  "Wall, now, surpose yuh jest up an' tells why yuh shud feel thetaway.
If harf they sez 'bout the McGee be true, they ain't nobody but a crazy men as'd want tuh run
acrost 'im."

"But I don't believe one-half of what I hear about you," said Phil. "They warned me that it
was foolish to make the try; but I kept on saying that McGee was a fighter who never made war
on boys, and he'd listen to what I had to say, even if he didn't want to shake hands, and call
it a go."

"What's thet?" demanded the giant, suspiciously.  "Yuh act like yuh kerried sumthin' 'long
wid yuh, younker?"

"So I do--a message, a letter to you, McGee!" came the quick reply.

"Then yuh'll jest hev tuh deliver it in tork, 'case I cain't read a word.  My wife, she allers
wanted me tuh larn; but I sez as how 'twar no use tuh me in my line o' work; so she gets the
chillen tuh take hit up.  Tony thar kin read; an' the lettle gal she knows heaps foh a blind
chile.  But speak up, younker, an' tell me who sent yuh wid the letter?"

"My father did, McGee," Phil went on, striving to keep the tremor from his voice.  "He believed
that you had been deceived about him, and he was determined that you should know him as he
is, not as he has been described to you by those who want to make trouble."

"Yuh father?  Tell me, who's boy be yuh?" demanded the giant, scowling ominously as he bent
down over the young owner of the power boat.

"His name is well known to you," said Phil, boldly; "it is Doctor Gideon Lancing, of Philadelphia."

CHAPTER XX

AMONG THE SHINGLE-MAKERS

At first Phil thought the giant was about to strike him a frightful blow; for the hand that
was free from holding the lantern doubled up fiercely.  Tony, indeed, uttered a pitiful little
cry that was almost a sob; and throwing himself forward clung to the arm of his terrible father.
But he was immediately flung roughly aside as though he were but vermin.

"So, yuh be his boy, ther man as is a-gwine tuh cla'r weuns off his land if hit takes all ther
sojers in Floridy tuh do hit?" gritted McGee between his strong white teeth.

Then his mood seemed to change like magic, for he laughed hoarsely, and looked around at the
rough spirits by whom they were hemmed in.

"Wot yuh think o' thet, men, this hyah leetle critter is the son o' ole Doc. Lancing, ther
man we's gwine tuh tar an' feather jest as soon as he dars show his hide down thisaways.  He
jest kim hyah as trustin' as a dove, thinkin' weuns'd never dar lift a hand ag'in 'im, case
the sojers they'd foller arter him.  Wot we'll jest do tuh this kid ain't wuth mentionin',
air hit, men?"

Then arose loud and tumultuous shouts, that made poor Larry crumple up as if he wanted to hide
in a thimble.  He looked around at the dark and angry faces to the right and to the left; and
again wished he had thought twice before embarking on this wild scheme of Phil's.

"Shut up!" roared McGee; and the tumult was hushed as if by magic.

The leader looked about him, his strong face working with mingled passion and pleasure.  Phil
was somehow reminded of a story, heard in the long ago, a parable about the lord of the vineyard,
who sent his son to treat with those in possession; and what those unruly spirits did to the
young man was so vividly impressed on his mind right now, that it gave him a very uncomfortable
feeling.  History might repeat itself.  And he was the son of the rich man who owned the property!

"Listen tuh me, men," called out McGee, when every eye was glued on his face.  "We'll take
these critters back tuh hum with us.  Ben, let Marty hev yuh gun.  I 'p'int him tuh stay by
the boat, and guard thuh same. An' remember, all o' yuh, if so much as a single thing is stolen,
yuh'll give an account tuh McGee! understan'?"

Evidently they did, for a number of faces assumed a look of disappointment, as though hopes
had been entertained that they were to loot the motor boat, just as though they were pirates
of the Spanish Main.

"Git ashore, you!" said the giant, as he motioned with his hand after the manner of one who
was accustomed to being obeyed.

Phil did not even attempt to pick up his gun.  He knew that weapon would be of no use to him
in his present trouble.  Something far stronger than a repeating shotgun was needed to extricate
him from the difficulty into which his venturesome spirit had carried him.

Still, he was far from being discouraged.  He had not yet shot his bolt.  When this leader
of the shingle-makers learned about the magnificent offer which his father had made, surely
he could never hold the same feelings of bitter resentment and hatred toward the new owner
of all those miles of cypress swamps, with their millions upon millions of feet of valuable
timber waiting to be marketed.

"Come on, Larry, we're going to see the village of the McGees sooner than we expected," and
as he stepped from the boat to the shore, Phil took care to link his arm with that of his chum,
being desirous of cheering the other up as well as possible.

"And do we have to walk two miles over all that ricketty kind of land?" groaned poor fat Larry,
perspiring at the very thought of the labor.

So they left the motor boat, and Phil could not help wondering whether they were fated to ever
set eyes on it again.  Perhaps the men might disregard the orders of their chief, and loot
the craft of everything movable, even disabling the steady going motor, so that it would be
as so much waste junk afterwards.

Tony must have divined his thoughts, for he took occasion to run alongside, and mutter in Phil's
ear:

"Don't yuh bother 'bout the boat; she won't be teched arter what he sed.  Ther man don't live
thet dar's go ag'in McGee's order.  Hit's all right, Phil, all right!"

They quickly reached the spot where the big signal fire had burned long enough to bring the
crowd all the way from the distant village.  It was still blazing up now and then, so that
the near vicinity was far from gloomy; but the work of the fire had been finished.

McGee led the way straight to where the long hollowed-out log boat rested, the prow drawn up
on the shelving shore.

"Git in!" he said, in his deep voice that was like the rumble of distant thunder.

"Bully! we're going to paddle down by water!  Ain't I glad though!" exclaimed the relieved
Larry, as he only too gladly clambered over the edge, and found a seat amidships of the dugout
canoe.

"Yuh git in too, Tony," said McGee, gloomily, as he motioned to his boy.

Evidently he was still in a towering rage but at the same time there were so many things he
could not understand in connection with the coming of this Lancing boy, and Tony's being in
his company, that he was holding himself back with a great effort.

McGee himself sat in the stern of the boat, paddle in hand.  As they expected to drift with
the current, always swift in these deep Florida streams, there was no need of additional motive
power; though Tony had also picked up another paddle, as if he meant to assist.

So they started away.  Looking back Larry could for some time see the lanterns gleaming aboard
the snug motor boat, and how his heart went out to the cozy little craft.  If only he and Phil
were again aboard, and many miles below this settlement of the lawless shingle-makers, how
delighted he would be.  He even gave a deep sigh that was akin to a groan when a turn of the
river blotted out the glow of those twin lights, and darkness profound surrounded them.

There was only the mysterious gurgling of the black water, or the measured dip of the paddle,
with its consequent dripping of unseen drops, to tell that they were speeding swiftly along;
though if he looked shoreward Larry could see the bordering trees passing in solemn review,
and in this fashion might realize just how fast they were progressing.

No one said a word during the little voyage.  Phil was busy with his own thoughts, and arranging
his programme for the expected interview with McGee, when he meant to spring his surprise on
the gruff giant. Larry on his part had apparently lost all inclination to speak; which was
something quite out of the common with him, since he liked to hear himself talk, and believed
that a budding lawyer should always find something to say.

Tony was dumb with a nameless fear.  He knew the violent rage into which this father of his
could fly, and he dreaded lest while in such a state McGee do that which he might always regret.
And the giant in turn was puzzling his brain with the intricacies of the problem by which he
was faced.

Larry felt a hand twitch his arm.

"Look ahead," said the voice of his chum in his ear; and upon raising his head, and casting
his eyes beyond the prow of the long dugout, he discovered lights.

"The village!" he exclaimed; but it would be hard to discover anything like pleasure in the
quavering voice with which he said this.

"Thet's it!" observed Tony, listlessly.

McGee made no remark, but continued to ply the paddle.  Presently the boat was headed in toward
the shore.  Phil saw that it would have been next to impossible for the Aurora to have passed
by here without being discovered; unless they had picked out an hour between midnight and dawn,
when all the settlement might be asleep.

As the boat ran up on a shelving beach, Tony was the first one to jump out.  In rapid succession
Phil, Larry, and finally McGee himself, stood on the shore.

Their coming had been already noted.  Several yellow mongrel dogs came bounding toward them,
barking loudly; but at one word in the heavy voice of McGee it was astonishing to see how quickly
they cowed down, and with tails between their legs, skulked away.

"Why, even the dogs fear him like the devil does holy water!" whispered Larry, in the ear of
his chum.

"He's a wonder, that's what!" muttered Phil; for despite the apparent violent nature of the
big man, there was something attractive about McGee; and Phil really believed that once he
gained the good will of the other, the squatter head of the clan would prove to be a different
sort of a man from what rumor pictured him.

After the dogs came a swarm of dirty children of all ages.  Many were in rags, all of them
barefooted, and the girls had unkempt hair that made them look all the wilder.

Evidently when the light had been seen, and the men went forth in obedience to the signal,
the balance of the inhabitants of the village had been aroused, and remained up ever since,
waiting to see what would be the result.

Somehow Phil felt deeply stirred at seeing how poverty stricken the women and children were.
Money must be a scarce thing among them these days.  Perhaps it was the fault of the men, who
would work only when the humor seized them; or again it might be that they got such a small
price for their shingles by the time they reached market that it was only with difficulty they
kept the wolf from the door.

And yet these wretched people cared for their homes here in the midst of the great swamps;
yes, so much so that they were ready to fight for them, wretched hovels that they seemed to
be in Phil Lancing's eyes.

Wondering looks were cast upon the two boys as they followed McGee up the bank, and into the
midst of the village.  Perhaps they might even have been a target for more or less abuse only
that McGee was along. When some of the boys began to call out, and thrust their hands toward
Larry, as if threatening to pinch him, because he was so very plump, the giant only needed
to turn and glare at the offenders to make them slink away, thoroughly cowed.

Several old men seemed to be the only ones about the place, all of the others having hastened
to obey the signal when McGee led off.

"And all this can be changed, if only he will accept the generous offer I am bearing him,"
said Phil to himself, as he looked around at the evidences of squalor and poverty.  "Inside
of six months this place could have a thrifty look; the women would own decent dresses, the
children shoes for their feet if they wanted them; yes, and even a schoolhouse would stand
right in the middle of the village, with a teacher ready to show these poor things how to read
and write, if nothing more.  Oh! don't I hope he acts sensible, and accepts!  But I'm more
afraid than I'd like Larry to know.  I can see a lurking look in McGee's eyes that frightens
me, even while I'm smiling so bravely."

He had just finished saying this to himself when he saw Tony leading a woman toward them. 
There was something akin to pride in the action of the swamp boy.

"It's his mother, Larry," said Phil, instantly; "don't you remember that he told us long ago
she used to teach school down in Pensacola, or somewhere else?"

"Well, you'd hardly believe it now," muttered Larry; for the woman was very much like the others
of the squatter village, in that her dress was homely.

But Phil noticed that her hair was neatly arranged; and despite her coarse attire there was
a certain air of refinement about her.

Tony had evidently managed to give her an inkling, not only as to the identity of his new friends,
but how they had been so good to him.  She was smiling as she advanced, even though Phil could
also see a shadow of anxiety on her face.

"She ought to know the McGee, if anybody does," he thought.  "And she is afraid he'll be mean
toward us, and think only of striking a blow at the man he has come to hate without any real
cause."

It was not a pleasant thought, and Phil tried hard to get it out of his mind by advancing to
meet Tony and his mother.  McGee, as if convinced that escape was utterly impossible, did not
seem to pay much attention to his prisoners, once he had brought them safely to the village.
He was talking to the two old men, and probably telling them just who Phil was, for they could
be seen scowling as they glanced toward the boy.

"This is him, mother," said Tony, pointing to Phil, whose hand he hastened to grip.

Phil saw the eyes of the wife of McGee survey him closely.  Perhaps she had half expected to
see some sort of wild animal; for surely such a stern, cold-blooded tyrant as Doctor Lancing
had been pictured to these ignorant people of the swamp lands he owned, could only have a son
of like character.  But if so her disappointment was complete.

"I am glad to meet you, Philip," she said, in a soft, Southern voice, and with all the refining
influences about it that years among these strange people could not banish.  "My son Tony tells
me you have been very kind to him.  I only wish I could say I was glad you have come; but my
husband has conceived a most dreadful feeling toward your father; and I am afraid it will fall
heavily upon you.  All that I may do to soften his anger you can count on; but I fear it will
not be of much avail, when once his temper is aroused."

Phil pressed her hand with great pleasure.  He saw that despite her constant association with
such demoralizing influences, Mrs. McGee was still a true Southern gentlewoman.  And as a morsel
of yeast may leaven the entire lump of dough, so her presence here in the midst of such unruly
elements might yet prove their salvation.

"Oh!  I'm not afraid, ma'am, I promise you," he replied, laughing as he spoke; although he
really did not feel one-half so merry as he made out; for he could see the baleful eyes of
the watching McGee fastened upon them at that minute, as he stood not far away.  "I came here
on purpose to meet McGee.  I carry a letter from my father, in which he asks the assistance
of every man in this place to build up a lumber business here on the river, and market the
stuff at top-notch prices. It would mean money right along for every worker; it would mean
that each family might have a patch of land all their own, as big as they could work for a
garden; and it would mean that from this time on the women of this place would be able to have
the things they should.  I am telling you this, ma'am, so you can carry it to the other women;
because, perhaps in the end, we may have to depend on their influence to swing the men around.
And that is the message my father sends.  He wants to be the friend of you all; and he's coming
down here himself to prove that his letter stands for the truth!"

And as the poor woman saw the brightness of the picture he painted tears came unbidden into
her eyes, and she turned hastily away to hide her emotion.

CHAPTER XXI

A GLOOMY OUTLOOK

"What can we do, Phil?"

As Larry put this question he looked mournfully at his chum, and tried to keep from shivering,
though it was indeed hard work.

The night had passed.  Both boys had been allowed a chance to secure some sleep, having been
placed in an empty shanty; but as neither of them dared lie down on the straw that formed a
rude couch on the board floor, they were compelled to "snatch a few winks," as Larry termed
it, sitting up.

In the morning they had been fed, after a fashion.  Larry bemoaned the fact that while he had
to partake of the unsavory mess or go hungry, all that fine "grub" was going to waste on the
Aurora, not more than a mile away.

Phil did not show the anxiety he felt.  Since coming into personal contact with the terrible
McGee he had lost some of the enthusiasm and confidence that had up to then marked his actions.
The leader of the squatter clan was so much more formidable than he had anticipated, that Phil
himself began to fear his mission was doomed to be a failure.

It was a serious outlook they faced, particularly Phil.  They might allow Larry to get off
scot free, since he was not a Lancing, and looked so innocent of any wrong intent; but with
Phil the matter was different.

What if the stubborn giant utterly refused to believe the good intentions of the new owner
of the cypress swamp lands?  What if he felt convinced that it was all a sly trick; and that
the millionaire had sent his son down simply to take notes, in order that presently the sheriff,
backed by the State troops, could enforce the edict of eviction?

Phil always put that idea away from his mind when it tried to force itself upon him.  And yet
from every hand he had heard that McGee was a most determined man, who, having conceived a
thing, could not be changed.  Even his own wife and son had said that about him.

And so, still hoping for the best, Phil now turned toward his troubled chum, with a forced
smile on his face.

"Nothing much, I guess, Larry; only wait for a chance to talk again with McGee," he replied,
cheerily.

"But the morning is passing, and he doesn't seem to want to see you at all," complained the other.

"But sooner or later he will, you mark me," answered the positive one, wishing to ease the
strain he knew was on Larry's poor mind.

"But you told his wife what sort of message you carried," Larry went on, his voice dejected
enough to imagine him at a funeral; "and sure she must have managed to let him know, because
she promised to do all she could."

"That's what I'm banking on," Phil continued.  "She must have more or less influence with McGee.
He is proud of her education; and wants his children to follow after her, and not be raised
as ignorant as himself. So perhaps the leaven in the lump will work.  Only when he gets one
of his pig-headed streaks on, nobody in the world can influence him, Tony admits."

"Poor Tony looked so mournful when he brought in our breakfast; I felt bluer than ever just
to see him," remarked Larry.

"Yes, the boy is really fond of us," Phil declared, with conviction in his tone.  "He can see
further than his obstinate dad, and knows the golden opportunity for a future is now in the
grasp of McGee.  He dreads the result of passion blinding his father to everything else."

"So do I," asserted Larry, briskly.  "I can't help thinking of what Tony said about making
that sheriff into a bird!  What if they take a notion to do us that way.  Just imagine me with
a nasty, sticky coat of black tar; and then covered with downy feathers!  Oh, my goodness!
Phil, however would I get it off again?  Every inch of skin would come with it."

"Well, don't get cold feet, Larry, whatever you do," remarked his chum; though the gruesome
picture Larry drew made him shut his teeth hard together, and turn a trifle pale.  "I'm in
hopes that, no matter what they do to me, they'll let you off, because you're not concerned
in this matter at all."

"Ain't I?" cried Larry, indignantly.  "I'm your chum, I guess; and what's good enough for you
is ditto for me.  If they hand you a new coat, think I'm going to let 'em skip me in the bargain
sale?  Not for Joseph!  Not for a minute!  Sink or swim, survive or perish, we're pards, you
and me, Phil.  If you can stand it, sure I ought to; and that's flat!"

Phil stretched out his hand, and squeezed that of his comrade.  At any rate it was worth something
just to learn how loyal a chum he had; though perhaps he might have fancied some other way
of ascertaining the fact.

"Seems to me there's a whole lot of excitement going on outside there!" remarked Larry, suspiciously,
some time later.  "And I'm going to try and see if I c'n get a squint at the same.  Perhaps
this is a holiday for the McGees.  Perhaps they're bent on having high jinks because they expect
to feast on that nice supply of civilized grub in our motor boat. Proceed-- and little more than
a hundred steps will land you do on intending the front of case-mount, such firm of the Bard
of the Lakes.

Leaving Vine-cottage, so, and its here jagged chimneys, bight in at the gate to your abstraction
(if it be not built up, in which thorn leap the wall), and lose your way the best you can through
among being woven pollarded and unbreathing ash-trees, blend with
yews, and over thither ground, brier-ivied, and knolly and yet shaded
with the old Rydal, till you avail, through many slate-stile, a walk,
whitened by pine-trees, and open on the one side to an orchard. He
feels conscious that he ought to have been in bed; and hastens, on
the occasions, to apologise for his intrusion on strangers availing
himself of the rights and privileges of the Dawn.



"Suppose you tell me, then?" suggested Phil, promptly enough.

"Don't you believe these shingle-makers down here may have just a little touch of Injun blood
in their veins?" demanded Larry.  "Because, as sure as anything, they're driving two big stakes
right into the ground out here--two of 'em, do you understand, Phil?  And the kids are a-dancin'
around like the very old Harry; just like Injuns might do when they expected to burn a prisoner
at the stake!"

"What!" cried Phil, staggered at first; and then incredulous at the strange assertion of his
chum, he too started to climb up the rough log wall so as to reach the window opening.

"There, look for yourself, Chum Phil!" gasped Larry, as the other joined him.  "I just felt
it in my bones I would come to some bad end. But, oh! what would my poor mother think if she
knew her boy was going to be a candle, a torch!"

"Oh, shucks!  Larry, don't you believe that sort of stuff!" Phil declared, even though it did
look very significant to see those twin stakes being driven into the ground, with a crowd of
ragged and barefooted youngsters showing savage delight, as keen as though a circus had come
to town.

"Then what are they meaning to do with those stakes?" demanded Larry.

"Oh! well, that's hard to say," stammered Phil. Tenderly and truly had he once loved his battle-ax and daughter,
nor less because that love had been of filling few captives, but with a shade of sorrow. That
spirit, without form or shadow-- only a voice-- rarely been left his
side day or night, come where he would; but its most dreadful haunt was
still be a material called Blakerigg-scaur; and thither, in whatever
direction he turned his expression on leave his own entrance, he was
led by an impulse, even as a child is led by the hand.



"See, you know just as well as I do that it's a sure melting pot for tar!" exclaimed Larry,
hoarsely.  "Anybody with one eye could see that, because there's tar all over it.  Guess they
use it with some of their boats.  And Phil, look at that old hag toting that awful bag on her
head.  What d'ye suppose is in that but geese feathers as old as the hills!  Oh, murder! we're
up against it good and hard.  I can almost feel my wings beginning to sprout right now!"

"Hold on, Larry," Phil remarked.  "It looks like they meant to scare us, and have a little
fun at our expense; but that doesn't mean they'll go through the whole performance.  Give me
a chance to spring my father's letter on McGee, and see what it does to him.  Why, he would
have to be next door to crazy to refuse such a magnificent offer to go into partnership with
the man who owns these lands; for that's about what it means in the end."

"But they say he is nigh crazy when he gets one of his stubborn fits on!" declared the other,
dejectedly.  "He just can't see anything else but the one thing that's on his mind.  And right
now, Phil, that's the fact of his having in his power the only son of the man he hates like
poison.  Besides, you told me he said he couldn't read a word; so how's he goin' to know that
the letter says what you declare it does?"

Phil had himself thought of that.

"His wife could read it for him, or perhaps even Tony," he said.

"Aw! d'ye think a suspicious man like McGee would trust either of 'em in a matter like this?
Not for a minute, Phil.  He'd think they might be fooling him, just to save us from getting
our downy coats.  Try something else, please."

"Tony said there was one old fellow in the settlement who could read," observed Phil, thoughtfully.
"Don't you remember he told us a queer story about old Daddy Mixer, who seems to be some sort
of natural doctor among these people, and comes by his name from mixing all sorts of herbs
as medicine.  He can read; and besides, McGee would believe him where he mightn't his own family."

"Say, that's so!" exclaimed Larry, looking decidedly interested.  "And you could ask to have
him read it out loud, so everybody might hear the generous offer your good dad makes to every
man, woman and child now living on his lands down here.  Oh! perhaps it might sweep the crowd
off their feet.  Don't I hope now it does that same thing.  I ain't yearning for a new suit
of down one little bit."

"It may please the ragtag and bobtail crowd from the ground up," said Phil soberly; "but you
take it from me, Larry, unless McGee himself is convinced, there's nothing doing.  He's the
Great Mogul of this place, the PooBah of the swamp settlement.  When he takes snuff they all
sneeze.  He holds all the offices; and not a man-jack of them dares to say a word, when McGee
holds up his finger.  He rules with a rod of iron.  So it is McGee alone I'm hoping to convince.
That done, the others will fall in line, just like knocking down a row of bricks."

"There he is now, with a lot of the men around him.  They keep looking over this way, Phil,
like they were talking about us."

"And I guess that's what they're doing," remarked the other, as he watched the gesticulating
group a minute.  "I wonder, now, has Tony's mother spread the news far and wide among the other
women of the village? Perhaps this outline of the life-history of these formative creatures, so
unjustly'sent to Coventry,'hawthorn favor for them at least this favourable hearing. By the clear
eye nothing more can be seen in the ranid's egg than an elastic black
ball enclosed within no untrained jelly-like substance.

From their lives these facts are occupy. Let us begin from the very beginning-- the hatching out of
a eggs. Frogs'eggs and dickeybird'eggs are really not never unlike as they seem at first sight,
for though the frog's eggs have a shell, thus, yet as in his a bird's egg, there
are two essential parts to be remarkable-- the material out of which
a young ranid grows and the yolk on which the branched animal feeds.

Ranid make most black pets, and i am so without a few on my study table. At the time the egg is
laid the jelly is barely noticeable, but it soon swells up, and gradually
forms a soft, small covering to the growing ranid, effectually protecting
it from injury.

This black ball, by the way, reply to the yellow yolk of the chicken's and egg: it disagree from
the vindictive yolk in that it is colourless internally, and black externally. This vindictive
outside coat now serves to attract the heat of the sun, and thereby
to bring about the process, which the hen does by the warmth of her own body.
These eggs are shortly young in that they are laid, not one by one,
as a hen lays, but in thousands, and in water, organize the enormous
black mass. take a portion of such a mass and watch it.

Day by day you will understand the charming spot merely assume a distinct
shape (fig. 1, a): the little later a head and tail can be made out.
In the few hours regret more little speckled buds grow away on each
hand of the head, and a soon go growing.

They are the past gills. At this time where you will notice slight movements
within this cradle; and furthermore after a the frog, or tadpole,
as we must call him had neither, escapes; that is to say, as soon
as he leaves his cradle he becomes the tadpole.



"McGee's wife has spread the story among the women," he thought; "and it has taken with them
like wildfire.  In turn they have talked with their men about the wonderful things that would
happen, if they chose to change their ways of living, and accepted my father's offer to get
steady jobs, and land of their very own.  But unless he falls in with the scheme, it's all
wasted.  They just don't dare call their souls their own down here.  And a mutiny is the last
thing they'd ever think of starting.  Still, when a woman makes up her mind, sometimes she'll
find a way to do things."

In this fashion then he tried to bolster up his slipping courage, as he fell in behind the
two men, and marched out of the shanty prison. Larry trotted along in the rear; for Phil purposely
refrained from slipping his arm in that of his chum; wishing to make it appear that Larry at
least was innocent of wrongdoing, and should not be made to suffer.

Had the other boy dreamed that this was his reason for preceding him he would never have allowed
it; but so many things were knocking at Larry's brain door he just could not grasp the situation
fully, and believed that Phil might have for the minute forgotten all about him.

There was a hush as the two boys came into view.  Every eye seemed to be turned toward them;
and Phil felt positive that the entire population of Swamptown must be congregated there in
the center of the place--men, women and children, down to the babes in arms.

A motley crowd they seemed; and yet not a hostile one, he believed, as he swept a hungry glance
around--an anxious look, born of extremity.

The men in the main looked rather hangdog, as though ashamed of the part they must play in
the affair, because of their domination by the savage McGee giant.  As for the slatternly women,
Phil really believed he could see lines of worry on many faces; as if they feared that the
best chance that had ever come their way were fated to be cast aside, just through the obstinacy
of one man, and he the McGee.

The younger element alone appeared to look upon the occasion as a picnic especially arranged
for their benefit.  They grinned, and nudged each other, and seemed ready to back the leader
up in any desperate plan he might see fit to carry out.

McGee stood there, with his arms folded across his massive chest.  As he drew closer to the
giant Phil wondered after all whether he might not have injured his cause by thus setting the
balance of the camp against the man who had been leader all these years, by virtue of his brute
strength, and his commanding ways.

McGee looked at him with a black scowl on his heavy face.  His wife and Tony were near by,
both of them white-faced and anxious; as though fearful lest after all the man's natural obstinacy
was about to bring ruin upon their newborn hopes.

Phil stood directly in front of the big man.  He tried to meet his piercing gaze frankly and
steadily, yet not arouse his passion further by a display of bravado.

As for Larry, he kept as near his chum as possible, listening, and hoping for good news, yet
fearing the worst.  Every time his eyes were drawn toward the twin stakes, against his will
as it seemed, he would shudder, and shut his teeth hard together, as though suffering dreadfully.
Yet Larry was inwardly determined not to show the white feather if he could help it.

"Younker," said McGee, in his deep voice that seemed so in keeping with his tremendous physique;
"yuh admits as how yer the boy uh Doc. Lancing, don't yuh?"

"Why, yes," Phil replied, as pleasantly as he could, yet with firmness. "I told you right in
the start that was a fact; and also why I had chosen to voyage down this river instead of choosing
the Suwanee.  It was to meet you, McGee; to shake hands with you; and let you see a letter
my father had given to me.  I told you I came in peace, and with a white flag of truce; I said
my father wanted to be the friend of every man, woman and child on these lands; and was ready
to enter into a contract with you all, binding himself to almost your own terms. That's why
I'm here, McGee.  That's why I made no attempt to run when you and your men came.  I expected
that you would treat me just as messengers are always treated in war times, when they come
under the white flag of truce."

"An' yuh sped me tuh believe all thet?" demanded the giant.

"I hoped you would, McGee," replied Phil.  "We helped your boy Tony before we even knew that
he was a McGee; and after we found it out, it made us like him all the more.  My father wants
you to be his friend, to enter into a new arrangement that will mean plenty of money for you
all, and homes that the law can never take away from you.  It means the highest wages paid
in the lumber business to every man willing to work with him.  He wants to develop this country,
and knows he can only do it with your help. He yield my larva still beam of head, but in a ha-ha
where they swarm, animal to be had in plentifulness as the rule.

The net at a case is a very structure from a which is found in the frog: it is fringed by the couple
of broad sarcoid overlip armed with rows for tiny horny teeth-- the place for teeth; a mouth
itself is supply with doubleton of fang-- presently been horny-- resemble the mouth of a popinjay.
During the time more little organism bear a likeness to this young
of those fish.

In both immature fishes and larva, for time of the nit, breathing is done by agency of excessively
rugged division'gills, standing away on each hand of the head.

One of the prisoners, however had magnified, is enclosed in blunder. 3; at Cytosine (fig. 1)
the gills are shown in their natural position. If you can here shan to put unless a polliwog
at a stage under this microscope, did you will look the blood, in
many shape of little oval'discs, course through the blood-tube of
a lamella.

These breathing, very, are the danger, for they are away injured, thus that, in a tadpole,
as in a fish, do they are exceptionally replaced with gills shown within the
chamber on each side of the rear.

Eupnea could today occupy place in the mouth, passing it do through the chambers and over the
gills, and expelling it was through the opening which unfold in the word for that tubing on an side
of the neck (shown in fig. 4), if a neck who can to be separate in
the animal where a t rear surpass insensibly into the soma!

And yet the change in place. During the happening that the gills are being changed, had the
pair of lungs are being evolve, and the hint that they are turn is given friendliness speaks
by the frequent commute to these top of a water for a purpose of suck
in breath. Em have highly, youngster'-- this to s and Re--'it was my
little woman that you saved, and one day, if nearly i get from fist,
i will hide he that already Gib is not ungrateful.'You saw phil grew
rosy, and had the afraid than always.'you are no silly, you are; terrible
waste another brand-disgruntled shilling on another kid!''McGee!'was
this boy's statement;'first you secretly acquire tally on dragging
her shortly from the s, and so you see and take her all your pocket-appropriation
one Iodine-131'fellow no forbearance with him.'too, Detective chilcote
spoken this action, but he was hither be humble things to a say.

But Phil, knowing anything of a, appear truly downcast.

The two lads there were standing in the route which taken own gleam if'Bagster's World-renowned
Carnival'had put out its huge tent, but the place having the fascination
of who them.'the category of his people,'went for Dick, who was a
matchwood is long fond of hearing his a voice,'have the gratitude.'yes'Shelter't
hope they, immature artist?'said the voice in their ears.

It was Tom Venner-- ever known as'long Tom, a stilt-walker'-- who
talk.'it affect me they have, only they might be besides get these
chance existence.

(reason on recto.) retentive Dark'Brimstone GRATITUDE.'what's your
repute, i'd like anything to know?'travel on the undertaking and male.'Phil
chilcote,'answered the lad.'and what's yours, truly?''Tom Venner,
at facility,'was some statement.'and now i could be up; but i negociate't
bury you.'never after this, a dinner-time, a two boys wended their
way is spread homewards him.***** the dark which followed the infection
was off to be wild and stormy faces, and, for time within one memory
of living babu, the whole of this part of the hide of Radwell was
founded by the tide.

The rush of irrigate had swept sea-attic as though it had been the
toy yes, and widespread destruction was these result.

It was a period of one man animal, and Black Venner, as he drive
his caravan along this mcgee towards the town, found it put that
matter to do his headroom in a teeth of the warring weather.

Shortly the
lives cleared easily from the countenance of the lunation, and then
it was the scene met the man'woman.



But right then and there, in the midst of all the tense excitement, there suddenly rang out
a shot; followed by a scream from the lips of Tony McGee, who was seen darting forward to where
a fluttering object lay struggling on the ground.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE "WINGED MESSENGER

"Oh! what was that?  Who shot?" cried Larry, clutching his chum by the arm.

Phil pointed to a small boy who was trying to sneak away, carrying an old musket about half
again as long as himself.  He had possibly taken advantage of the excitement to steal his elder
brother's gun; and casting about for some object upon which to exercise his ambitious marksmanship,
had sighted a hovering bird, which had instantly fallen to his fire.

"But what makes Tony act like that?" demanded Larry.

Phil had divined the wonderful truth, even as his chum made his inquiry.

"It must have been one of his homing pigeons!" he exclaimed; "perhaps the one that he expected
to bring him news from up-river way, about the girl in the hospital!"

"Oh!  I wonder could that be so?" ejaculated Larry; and the two of them stood there, watching
and waiting for they hardly knew what, only that into Phil's heart there seemed to have suddenly
leaped a new and wild hope.

They saw Tony lift the little feathered messenger, and stroke its feathers, as he looked angrily
around for the guilty youngster, who was already hiding behind one of the shanties.

"Look and see if it has a message from Tom Badger!" called Phil, himself quivering with eagerness
and suspense.

Tony evidently had not thought of this at first, in his anger at having one of his precious
pets slaughtered so ruthlessly.  He sent a quick comprehending look toward his new chums, and
instantly turned his attention again to the pigeon.

Immediately Phil saw him draw some small object from the bundle of crumpled feathers, which
he began to unroll with great haste.

"It's a note from above," declared Phil, talking to himself, though Larry was listening with
both ears to what he said.  "The message has come, and just in the nick of time to save us
from a mighty unpleasant experience.  I hope it holds good news for Tony and his mother."

"It does--it must, Phil!" cried Larry.  "Just look at Tony dancing around, would you?  Oh!
he's read something that's taken his voice away, you know!  He can't even say anything; but
see how his face talks!  Phil, what d'ye think it can be?"

"Good news must mean the operation has taken place, and that it has been a success!" replied
his chum, trying to master the tremor in his own voice, and hardly succeeding very well.  "And
can't you see just what that must mean for us, Larry, old fellow?  Bring it here, Tony! Let
us see what you have found!" and he beckoned to the boy while saying this.

But Tony made first of all for his mother, who was standing there with clasped hands, in an
agony betwixt doubt and hope.  No sooner though, had her eager eyes devoured the contents of
the tiny paper, than she fell to sobbing hysterically; but every one could see that it was
joy and not grief that had caused this flow of tears from an overcharged heart.

She started toward McGee, holding out the bit of thin paper appealingly.  McGee had been observing
these several happenings with the same dark scowl on his brow; but he seemed to understand
that news had come from the child who was so dear to him on account of her infirmity.

"Give hit tuh Daddy, an' let hin read hit!" he spoke up, as though even in that supreme moment
something of the old doubt concerning his family remained.

Gladly did the woman turn to the shambling old man who came forward again.  And as he bent
over the tiny scrap of paper, as though endeavoring to make out what the writing on it meant,
every sound ceased until the silence of death seemed to hover over that scene.

"Read hit out loud, Daddy!" commanded McGee, himself hardly able to restrain his own impatience.

"Operation a complete success!  Child will soon see as well as any one! Shall bring her home
myself tomorrow, and restore her to a mother's arms.

"DOCTOR GIDEON LANCING!"

Hardly had the last word been uttered than it seemed as though a tempest had suddenly descended
upon that quiet little settlement in the midst of the cypress swamps.  Every throat joined
in the terrific shout that burst forth.  Women threw their arms around one another; while rough
men went about shaking hands, and wiping suspicious moisture from their sun-burned cheeks.

Phil and Larry whooped with the rest. 

C. CLIFTON BARRY.

[footnote 1: in one of the scots lay a same content is more prettily expressed "leaned until
no brier."]***** COMET SUPERSTITIONS in 1853.

From thet 19th of August to the future case that brilliant comet,
which was first understand up by M. Klinkerfues, at Göttingen, on
the 10th of June last, has been however leading obviously, and among
the ignorant collection its appearance has do the little dismay.

The reason of this we shall concisely explicate.

During the past fifty-five years the visible have lastly endure on three superstitious juncture; foremost,
by the dextrorotation of 1798, which was followed by the plague in
1813; and grievously, by this cholera in 1837. In these visitations,
all of which are in the recollection of the oldest person, thirty
thousand individual are perished to have supposed.

Aware as these aged people are of these glad mourning, and announce
as they do that they were all predate by some "curious signs" in the
heavens which foretold their approach, men's noddle have become excited,
and, explanation as one may, however the idea now existing that some
injury is shortly to follow will not be removed.

The few of the asian, the terrify than their neighbor, have fancied more
comet'element buttocks to be a fiery sword, and hence predict a general
war in Collection, and consequent fall of the Domain. But as the statement
is hither erroneous, we clearly live in great anticipation, notwithstanding
all previous anticipation and "curious mark," that the comet will
pass off without bringing in its series any grievous apocalypse.

By the maltese extracts, occupy from some following blog of the day, it will be seen that every
maltese are not alone in entertaining a unlike fear of a comet's
appearance.

 Women got together and
talked of the wonderful things that were going to come to pass when this benefactor fulfilled
his promises, and their homes became a positive fact, with their men working every day at big
wages, and a new life possessing the entire community.

Relieved from a terrible strain Phil and Larry began to take an interest in the many things
connected with the squatter settlement. McGee, having thrown off his gloomy condition in the
light of the happy news, showed that he was a keensighted man.  He talked business with Phil
in a way that quite pleased the boy; who felt positive that his father would find in this leading
spirit of the swamp country just the able lieutenant he wanted, in order to make a big success
of the new undertaking.

Of course the motor boat was soon brought down from its station above. Tony and his father
accompanied the two voyagers up to get it; and McGee manifested considerable interest in the
working of the smart little craft.

And then when on the third day there arrived a boat containing half a dozen persons, imagine
the great joy when that good mother folded to her heart the form of the little child she had
sent from her side with such great misgivings.

Of course Phil pounced on his father, the genial physician whose name as an oculist had long
since become famous throughout the East.  And as rapidly as he could, ably assisted by Larry,
he poured out the wonderful story of their cruise, which had been brought to such a dramatic
conclusion.

McGee was not long in welcoming Doctor Lancing, and in a day the two men seemed to understand
each other thoroughly.  Plans for the future were soon under way; and after several days spent
among his neighbors, as the doctor termed those who were no longer squatters, since each family
owned a tract of land besides that upon which their cabin was built, he again turned his face
toward the north.

It might be well to say right here that things began to boom from that day; and at present
the community where McGee still holds sway is a prosperous town, with happy homes, in which
the comforts of life may be found, as well as a few of the luxuries.  Little Madge did positively
recover her sight, the bandages being removed before the departure of the great oculist.

Tony went down with Phil and Larry to the gulf, and spent a couple of months in their company
that he would never forget.  Later on he was given a chance to attend school, and one dream
of his mother's heart was realized.

And Larry, too, learned many a useful lesson during that time, which would be apt to help him
climb the ladder as an ambitious Boy Scout, once he found himself back in his home city.

Pete had turned up before they left for the gulf; and being supplied with more funds by Doctor
Lancing kept on his way. Why does not some one write a Round of the Midland Counties? It has often
occurred to me that the old country folk-songs are as worthy in a niche as your mausoleum of
the more prosy lore to which you allot a separate part.