BASILIUS VALENTINUS,

A

BENEDICTINE MONK,

OF

NATURAL & SUPERNATURAL

THINGS.

ALSO,

Of the first Tincture, Root, and Spirit of METALS and MINERALS, how the same are Conceived,
Generated, Brought forth, Changed, and Augmented.

Whereunto is added, Frier Roger Bacon, of the Medicine or Tincture of Antimony; Mr. John Isaac
Holland, his Work of Saturn, and ALEX. VAN SUCHTEN, of the Secrets of Antimony.

Translated out of High Dutch by DANIEL CABLE. Would be the prudent give
him a lie too fat, too fat, a lie that I tear the guts, but save me. "

"I want yes or no?" - Said the fierce impatient and brutal curiosity.

Torment said: No. And he said with his mouth and head vigorously, as children make its first human
trials in the farce. To say, his whole being revolted against such egregious falsehood, and the
lips that had been noticeably pronounced bitter. Approached plus gross chair. She could not leave
because he was on the couch, sitting back the window. Would willingly embedded in the wall or
partition to escape the threat loving country that figure, he was already so repulsive. View
approaching the brown cloth, beard anger and rabbit fur hat, was
like seeing the devil that he was going up.

"That's what I figured I - Polo said taking his hand, which she wanted and could not remove -.
I know the familiar, I've seen him once.

It is a poor man, good-natured but short scope. We handled as you want, if you are ready, we shall
rule as a child is governed and do all your holy will. "

The intention that these words reveal, not conceal the unhappy young man who had more fear.
But natures under rudísimas evidence suggests that the danger occurs resource of salvation,
and that the excess of Terror to the abduction of value arises, the law of the reactions. Understanding,
therefore, Torment, for that hint of the ideas and words of your enemy this would lead to a
solution criminal and disgusting, felt tremors of dignity and protests
of the innate honesty of his soul.

He looked at the gross, and it seemed so odious, that between die fighting and the torture of
him and chose to treat first.

His wound instinct as a whip, he rose quickly, and without disguising his anger spake thus:

"In
order ... "This is just or not?

I have come to know if you let me quiet or want to conclude with me. "

- Calm, quiet girl - she murmured, turning pale Polo -. You know that I do not get anything bad.
For good, all you want ...

Torment made an effort to have prudence, tact, skill. Wiping tears who came to her eyes, said:

"You
can not wish me to be a miserable, you want me to be a good woman, dignified, honored. You
have done bad things, but do not have bad heart you leave me alone, do not pursue more, go away
to the Philippines as you thought and not the saint never remember my name. "

- Oh, poor Torment - he exclaimed with great bitterness -. If it could be so easily as you
say ... You said I'm not a pervert. How wrong you are! Back in those wilderness, several times
I was tempted to hang from a tree, like Judas, because I I sold it to Christ. Sometimes I despise
as I say, "Is not there a nobody, an unknown, a bystander, as he passed me, slap me? ". And I will
speak plainly. While I was religious hypocrisy and actor and had
no iota of faith.

After I threw the mask, I believe more in God, because my conscience uproar shows me more than
my conscience peacefully. Before preaching on hell without believing in it, now that I name, I
think that if does not exist, God must do it specifically for me.

No, no, I'm no good. You do not know me well. What I ask now? Leave you in peace ... Why look at
me when I watching?

To this question, the terror of the timid rose point. The things on his mind habríanle passed produced
a sudden death if the human brain was not built Explosion-proof,
as proof of guilt heart.

"What I looked? - Repeated brute with the energy of passion, supported
by logic -. Your pretty face what he said? Do not you remember? I
do. What do you say? ". 

Given this logic hack, without removing
the woman succumbed.

"The things I heard are not heard without derangement
of the soul. And now, what you mad I want to replace as it was ?...».

She
began to mourn as a child when you're stuck. For the Earth hath also its seven Planets, which are operated and bred by the
seven Celestial, only by a spiritual Impression or Infusion, even as the Stars operate all
Minerals. This is done incomprehensibly and spiritually, and therefore it is to be accounted
supernatural, even as two Lovers, their persons are visible, but their Love one to the other
is invisible: Humane Bodies are tangible and natural, but Love is invisible, spiritual, intangible
and supernatural, comparable to a Magnetick Attraction only; for the invisible Love which is
attracted unto it spiritually by the Imagination is, accomplish'd by the desires and fruition.
In like manner when the Heaven hath a love to the Earth, and the Earth hath a Love, Inclination,
and Affection towards Man, as the great World to the lesser, for the lesser World is taken
out of the greater, and when the Earth by the desires of its invisible Imagination doth attract
unto itself such a Love of the Heaven, there is thereby an Union of the Superiour and Inferiour,
as Man and Wife are accounted one Body together, and after this Union the Earth is impregnated
by the Infusion of the Heaven, and begins to conceive and bring forth a Birth sutable to the
Infusion, and this Birth after its Conception is digested by the Elements, and brought to a
perfect Ripeness and this is reckoned among the supernatural things; how the supernatural Essence
performs its operation in the natural.

Among the supernatural things are likewise reckoned all Magical and Cabalistical Matters which
depend thereon, arising out of the Light of true knowledge, not those which proceed from Superstition,
Conjuration, or unlawful Exorcisme, such as the Sorcerers use; but I mean in this place such
a Magick as the Wise men had that came out of the East, who by Revelation from God, and by
true allowable Art judged rightly; or such an one, as those of old had before us, usual among
the Egyptians and Arabians, before Writing was found, they noted, observed, and reserved by
Signs, Characters and Hieroglyphicks. Such Blessings may be used, which Christ the Son of God
used, as the Scripture saith; He took little Children, laid his hands upon them, and blessed
them. 

"Good bird will have fallen into the net. Assure girl, as long as you can, that these do not come
every day. But God made you so dull, let him escape ... If it were mine that dam, I first
flayed alive than release me from the claws. But you, as though viewed 're so Pavot, so silfidona,
that a word more or less what you leave off. As I let go, is for me. "

This ease and the ordinary way of speaking mortified both the largest of the Emperors, admonished his
sister that harshly.

"" We have little sermon? - Said the other -.

Shut up, if you do not want me to leave and not return to look around here. For what you give
me ...».

Which continued talking parrot who has taken wine soup. Amparo, disgustadísima, had to suggests
that more easily dominate his basilisk for good than bad, and would not answer to such nonsense.
Acostáronse, and bed to bed, engaged in easy conversation, most found the smaller the true situation.
That man was not his lover, was her boyfriend and was going to marry her. Reíase the other, but at
last had to believe my eyes. How well explained Amparito! ... If shelter is amended, whether it was
judicious, if not hindered their brilliance, As her sister would need ... Yes, it was necessary
to terminate the locurillas.

The sister of a subject as principal had to be pretty decent ... Go! If not, would not recognize
and sister. Before the two opened a bright future. It was fitting
that both are worthy hiciesen of fortune that the Lord will bring.

These revelations had an effect on the minds of Refuge, who fell asleep
and dreamed happy lived in a palace with a thousand other more nonsense.

The next day was very reasonable and submissive.

"Honesty - Amparo thought innate philosophy - depends on the means of being able to keep. Was enough
to tell me this crazy 'we eat', to begin to correct themselves. "

Gave him regular sum of money to keep her happy, and said goodbye to her.

"Today will go to the Costanilla. He wished also lived there and Rosalie, but I can not leave you.
I will come home every night, and give you what you need to break that promise me absolutely
with those of Rufete, and not serve as a model for painters ... That
life is over, and also right out night, trips to the theater stage
and coffee.

From tomorrow I'll work ... The he had to earn a dressmaker, why
do not you have to win you?

You see, see ... Linen galore, some dressing gowns and under your clothes and mine. It has a new
one for you ... But keep that very much, Refugio, and do not work, and back again, do not tell to
swim with me ... Oh, I forgot another important thing: I forbid you to go down to talk with Ido
and his wife, who is too loose tongue. I do not like certain neighborhoods. Book, dependability,
honesty, behavior is what I want. "

- Yes, yes, - said the other with evident desire to obey then, for the account you had.

Amparo shelter came and went, as usual, the Costanilla.

The following days were devoted to shopping, Rosalie was charged with full powers of his cousin.
I declare useless As of Pipaón enjoyed these things and the importance placed in stores. Amparo
to be the party could not overcome her sadness, and consciousness is the ruffling whenever Rosalia,
after haggling delicious fabrics, lace, fans, and jewelry, closed
dealing with traders saying that bill Mr. Knight.

When it came choose a color or shape, the bride fell into the greatest perplexity, and spirit
Look out for more serious efforts, not successful in the election. La de Bringas always chose so
security and assurance as if the objects were purchased for her.

"You do not like - say -. Let me, all I can furnish you with elegance. You seem lela, and look
around with those big eyes ... Why have so much horror to black, you do not but still colorful?
You seem to have come from a village. If not for me, I dress of mess. As you are so ready to
lead your home, the poor will divert Augustine. "

Some evenings, if the weather was fine, Knight brought a barouche closed, and the three they would
ride to the Castellana. Rosalia accept this gift with a satisfaction that bordered in joy, but
the bride was very ill at ease in this exhibition through the streets. Thought that all bystanders
were fixed on her, making spicy comments. While Rosalie was to be seen and is seeded to greet
many well known people pasasen drive, Amparo craved that night shadows fall on Madrid, Paseo and the
carriage. When he retired to his home, the usual time, Knight accompanied to the door, speaking
of the eternal theme of the unending series of home plans. Male happiest never existed.

The bride, however, had to employ workers disguise to believe that the content; but inside
it was the very dismal procession of his doubts and fears. He lived in constant shock, was
afraid of everything, even the most trivial accident were to her reason for distressing concern.
As someone entered the house Bringas, the unhappy suspected that person, whoever he was, came to
tell you something. If I felt it seemed whispering in the room dealing with it. In either of Rosalia
trivial sentence or thought she understood her husband suspected or sly allusion to things
she could only think.

A Knight encontrábale sometimes a little sad would you have said something? ... Until the arrival
of the postman at the house gave him chills. "It would bring some anonymous? This set of anonymous
in your mind in such a way only to see a postman on the street shaking, and the view of any
letter closed with envelope to D. Francisco made her shudder. He disliked Mr. de Torres, who
went to home some evenings, and gave him fear without knowing why.

There is never wearied of looking at the convicted man with mischievous smile, constantly rubbing
his chin, and to these eyes, she felt immense dread, as if in a deserted a bull appeared to him
with threatening jarameño horrible horns.

Was so extreme nervous susceptibility of the Empress, that even when
he heard read It seemed a newspaper printed in those lines would be
the name.

If Paquito came saying: "Do not know what happens?" this one sentence she gave him a violent
blow to the heart. What else? The maid herself, the harmless looking at her smiling Prudence sometimes,
as if he possessed a secret nefarious.

When Augustine and she cooed in honest discussions, rested from the
torture.

But maybe Rosalie appeared unexpectedly, as a person born to be recognized disturb the happiness
of others, and cast glances Inquisition, said:

"And yet Augustine, your girlfriend is not happy ... See what gets executed when face hear me
say ... Something's wrong, but when it is not honest with you, with whom it will be? ".

Such jokes that do not appear, torturing girlfriend but if put in a foal to disrupt. At home
I kept thinking about these things, repeating and commenting to discover the intention which
could lead, and as nothing was happening to his side of that prove for new forms of martyrdom,
see here an insignificant fact that increased its agonies:

The simplest of mortals, D. José Ido del Sagrario, visited her one
night.

Although Amparo concept it was excellent, his presence always inspires disgust and fear. Al
him felt cold like that feel if wrapped in sheets of ice. Man undoubtedly refreshed the memory
of the unhappy young man scenes and passages that she did not want remember more. Therefore,
the rueful countenance of the former writing teacher was represented with frightful features,
Feis an emissary of Satan.

What did the good Ido? What could it serve? The thing was simple. The eminent novelist had quarreled
with his editor, who did not want to take because their manuscripts
although the bucket and gave the cash.

Finding himself on the verge of falling again into poverty, that man, possessed of so many
talents, he reasoned sought a small square next to stable anyone fancy and roots. By his friend
Philip, he knew that Mr. D. Augustine Knight planned to take a clerk
to bring him books and correspondence ...

"Nobody better than you
- said the calligrapher with caramel face - can provide that square,
if taken forward, if pity on this poor parent.

With you say just two words to Mr. Knight, will my happiness because I know that this man's loves
you more than the apple of his eye, and with justice, reason to spare, because you ... (On an
incredible caramel) is an angel, an angel, yes, beauty and goodness. "

Cut under the eulogy. Wanted to conclude and that monster would go away. He could not view,
recognizing that it was pure and innocent.

As proof of his fitness for the position he sought, Ido del Sagrario that night he carried a
sheet of paper.

"Can you show this sheet - for stretching said shyly -, and there you will see my letter that,
though I be wrong to say it, is such that probably will not find
better.

I wrote that Calamo appellant, and is part of the latest novel ...».

For out of sight, she offered to support his claim, and the poor fellow was so grateful to be
and satisfied, threatening to return for the answer within a couple of days. Amparo, left alone,
passed quickly by the novel sight read sheet and sauteed words that appalled: Crime ... torture
... Sacrilege ... deception, and other scary words hurt their eyes and with horrible repercussions
are in your brain. Breaking the pastern, showed the pieces on fire.

The horror that this man caused him increased with the memories he had of the few times see you in
the past.

The Simple Cerato had been good once in the drugstore to take a little note ... They talked
about school, the antics of the boys, the sermon ... What sharp spines are! ... Ido del Sagrario
know! And such a man sought a place in the future home of it! ... Surely God had abandoned her,
handing it over to Satan.

XXVII

Tortured by these and other musings all night, determined to return the next morning the confessional
of good fortune. Did so. She would not confess, but to simply say: "I also had the courage, father,
to do what you sent me." Echola a sermon the priest severe, then giving encouragement and assuring
a successful happy to be determined.

Also that day he saw from afar Doña Marcelina Polo, all black, the color of mahogany face,
locked in bank if he were carved in it.

Penitent turned quieter home, but looking Inside there was a power that the priest had tried
to instill.

"If I dared - I thought then Bringas house -. But no, I'm sure that no I dare. Now I know what I
should say, and when I see ahead, idea goodbye, goodbye purpose. I'm so weak that God certainly
made me something that was worthless. "

And it was too late for the confession! Knight accuse the basis of
having deceived him.

Did not she already enjoyed the position of married? Is not living
off of it?

Had not used Groom heavily in preparing for the wedding?

He could justly be fooled, accused of disloyalty and see more of her perversion had a fraud
of a woman a trickster, a cheat, a ...

And with the deal reached Augustine to his girlfriend's idea to form so high that the confession
would as a shotgun for the poor man. The looked like a superior being, of unprecedented purity
and virtue. What allowed her opinion that his future had such a liar?

How her face now say "no, not me, I have a horrible spot, I did this, this and this ...»? Knight
would die of grief when heard, because such an atrocious statement was to kill best of them,
and despise, the yield from him with horror, with disgust ...

Several times he said: "The best part of my happiness is in knowing that nobody has wanted before
me ...».

And she, foolish, without measuring his words, he answered: "nobody, nobody, nobody." It was certainly
true in the sphere of feeling, because of gaps was pure hallucination delirium, some unconscious,
irresponsible and stupid, as is done in state sleepwalking or under the influence of a narcotic
... But such arguments, stacked to form as a tower, does not destroy
the fact, and the brutal and terrible fact came to light light his
clear logic at the top of this obelisk distinction ... Cursed lighted
beacon your steps!

... Forgetfulness, forgetting was what was needed, he fell land, lots of land on so that they stay
buried forever and torn from human memory.

That evening, Knight found it very self-absorbed and asked several
times why.

"Dislikes has given me my sister" - he replied.

And the face that would represent Augustine if she began to tell ...
and sound would have their words, and he entered a terror so strong,
he said to himself: "I'll kill myself before to confess.

"

Moreover, neither he nor anyone else had to understand if I spoke. Only God as mystery deciphered
large. I thought keeping her purity and righteousness in his heart, but how do understand others
and less of a jealous?

Nothing, silence, silence, silence. God would take forward.

It was true that his sister gave him trouble.

Ido, who often turn up to find the of their claims to the Plaza as a bookkeeper, said that
there were twice been a man who brought dishes and bottles Refuge at the inn, and had offended home.
It's extremely upset. At night the two sisters quarreled. Refugio,
pride, accused the other insolent words.

Amparo tried to submit it yet artfully offering money. But Refugio had shot down the slope
without brakes down, and it was not possible contain it.

"I want nothing with you - he said -. You in your house and I in mine. Do not miss a man like me you.
But I do not deceive me offering me a wedding impossible. Marry you! Good going. Will with a blind.
Do not get white. I will not say anything. Neither I nor hypocrite
like me acknowledge.

There you manage.

Abur. "

She picked up her clothes and left without talking more.

Left alone, he shared his weary spirit Amparito between two modes
equally painful suffering.

It was a disgrace to his sister, other is considered tough, hot fixes as thorn in his brain, where
there were already other: "Shelter knows!".

At dawn, sleep greatest disquietude, the bride confessed everything
to his lover, who, listening, had pulled a knife and had cut off his
head ... Where did stop the head?

There, land of savages, a swarthy man had it in his hands, kissing.

Wake up and lifted not know what to do or think. As has been a nightmare, and wine Ido del
Sagrario about nine.

"Miss ...».

- What, D. Joseph?

- Yesterday, seeing that you do not remember me, I decided to introduce myself to the Lord, which,
as I told him that knew you, I got very good side. The lyrics really liked it. I ordered again.
I think I have space.

We also looked at that simple in a particular way. Was it simple or malice, it was kindness
or betrayal that wore those weeping eyes? Amparo wanted the earth to swallow to such a D. Joseph.

"What
a house you are going to have, Miss! When I went, the Lord was not, and Philip I taught everything.
It is a palace. But frankly, you deserve it ... There were carpenters nailing embroidered curtains.
Then they brought some chairs that look like pure gold ...».

'D. Joseph - she said humbly lowering his eyes to the eyes of this unhappy, which She looked like an
inexorable judge. If you behave, I'll protect you. "

The poor Ido eyes welled with tears.

"Oh! Miss, can we wait ...?

Will you be so good that ...? I dared not intrude; but seeing that you care for us, have the
courage to tell ...? Oh, Miss. Tia sheet like few others. Wants you
to give the finishing of their new home. "

- We'll see ...

- And
the older child ... You know, Louie, the big boy ... Well, if you'd
like to take of lacayín ... It is in handy for you to put your uniformità
with many buttons on the overalls and cap to a gallon.

- We will
see, see ...

- Do not know if you know that my wife is one of the
best hairdressers is in Madrid. Say the head of the Minister of Development
of the biennium and other heads, miss, many others. Met Nicanor home
of His Excellency. I gave lessons to children. One of them has been
as deputy. But this is irrelevant ... Do we have you this ...? The
older girl, Rosa, sewn to wonder ...

- Well, see, see ...-- repeated
Amparo harassed.

Because they were soon laughing would not destroy
their hopes of putting the whole family.

In these and other things
that do not merit concern, spent a few days until end of the year
67. I do not want to talk about the birth Bringas armed them small
or of the noise that got Alfonsito to drum his uncle gave him. There
was dinner, which by force routine we call sumptuous phrase, and was
attended by Knight and his girlfriend. The wedding was set for the
end of February or early March. In preparation and other Event spent
most of January 68. The newlyweds would leave Bordeaux season.

When
Rosalie and Amparo were alone, that spared no occasion to see what
was its protected the attention they deserved the generous cousin.

"Augustine
has given me this fan - he said one day, showing one of the best buys
they did -. Daughter, not everything has to be for you. The poor have
to reach some little thing. And the two shawls seems to be also for
my humble person. Yesterday he said: 'you stay with it if you like
so much, 'and I said,' Oh, no, no way. " But perhaps take it. What
then, my work is worthless? ... All day on the street, forgetting
my attention! ... There are things here, daughter, you will have to
be very bad, because you have air, come on, you do not like more than
the dress of merino. Too bad you spent big bucks Augustine, so you
do not look! What is the navy blue faille dress, believe, in good
I would win with him, even giving my cousin has cost money. I was
to propose ... You do not mind that color is fine, and you know you
wear those things. You look brought from a village and you have what
you do not share. The custom, daughter, custom is all in a matter
of dress. Put a skirt to a palette of satin, and will not know move
foot in it ... Then you get married, I have to change this glistening
pin that I have with two corallites and eight pearls. Is of less value
than yours, but you will be better. Leave me alone, so you fix that
looks something, and bring your vapidity the whole party can. " 

Showed
himself as the girl with everything, but inside it had intended to
hold off, then to marry, the meddling and overbearing pretensions
of Pipaón de la Barca. These three parts are only fed in the Earth
by the Elements, out of their Bodies, and nourish'd till they be perfect. But the Matter which
comes out of the Center is imagined by the Stars, operated by the Elements, and formed by the
Earth: It is a Matter to be known, and the true Mother of Metals and Minerals: It is such a
Matter and Mother, whereof Man himself is conceived, born, nourish'd, and made corporal: It
may be compared to the middle World, for what is in the great World is in the little World,
and what is in the little World is also in the greater; and what is jointly in the great and
little World is likewise found in the middle World, which unites and conjoins the great and
little world; it is a Soul which unites and copulates the Spirit with the Body. This Soul is
compared unto water, and it is a right true water, but not so that it wets as other water doth,
but it is a Celestial water, dry, found in a Metallick Liquorish substance; it is a Soulish
water, which loves all Spirits, and unites them with their Bodies, conducting them to a compleat
Life; therefore it is reasonably found out, and evidently proved, that Water is the Mocker
of all Metals, which are heated by the warm aerial Fire, or Spirit of Sulphur, which by its
digestion makes the Earthly Body lively, wherein the Salt is evidently found, which preserves
from putrefaction so that nothing might be consumed by Corruption. At the beginning and birth
Quick-silver is first operated, which stands yet open with a subtile coagulation, because little
Salt is imparted to it, whereby he manifests a more spiritual than corporal Body; but all the
other Metals which follow out of its Essence, and have more Salt, whereby they become corporal,
do all follow this; so that I now begin first with the Spirit of Mercury.

CHAP. III.

Of the Spirit of Mercury.

Though I have a peculiar Stile in writing, which will seem strange unto many, causing strange
Thoughts and Fancies in their Brains, yet there is reason enough for my so doing; I say enough,
that I may remain by my own experience, not esteeming much of others prating, because it is
concealed in my knowledge, Seeing having alwaies the preheminence before Hearing, and Reason
hath the praise before Folly; Wherefore I now say, that all visible, tangible things are made
of the Spirit of Mercury, which excels all earthly things of the whole world, all things being
made out of it, having their Off-spring only from it; for all is found therein which can perform
all whatsoever the Artist desires to find; It is the beginning to operate Metals, when it is
become a spiritual Essence, which is meer Air flying to and fro without wings; it is a moving
wind, which after it is expelled its dwelling by Vulcan, it is driven into its Chaos, where
it again enters, and resolves it self into the Elements, where it is elevated and attracted
by the Sydereal Stars after a Magnetical manner unto themselves, out of love, whence he proceeded
before, and was operated, because it affects its like again, and attracts it to it. Is that the nature
there is no center of gravity with all the accuracy that science is? not; center exists, it
is not he missing, but the means to find him. Nature is so there like science, neither left behind:
what can not follow them are our media experience.

The mechanic determined that indivisible point is the center of gravity, assuming surface without
thickness, lines without breadth, and length divided into a designated point in space, but without
any extension. A satisfies these conditions dutifully nature: point exists, and not really to blame for
the limitation of our experience. The admitting there is any point of the two views above. Sticking
to which is in favor of unextended points, it is without any difficulty of the center of gravity,
in pure science. The other dares not much, but comes to say: "You see that molecule, that
little balloon infinitesimal diameter, whose smallness not enough to represent the imagination?
Make him smaller splitting for all eternity in decreasing geometric progression, in the ratio
greater than podais conceive, and go closer always at the center of gravity without ever reaching
it, the nature you do not miss ever: the limit before you retire, but will know for certain that
you approach him. Further into this molecule is what you seek, continuing to advance inside: do
not find; but there it is. "I do not think that the reality in this case detracts from the scientific
accuracy: mechanical theory or imagined or conceived, not going beyond.

[35.] These considerations leave beyond doubt that the geometry in
all its accuracy, theories in all its rigor, exist in nature.

If we were able to follow In our experience, we would find as the real with the ideal order,
and discover when the experience is against the theory, provided that this is not wrong, it
is because the limitation of our media makes us ignore the conditions imposed by the same theory.
The engineer who builds a system of gears is forced to correct their theoretical rules due
to friction and other circumstances from the area in which constructs: if he could see a coup
within nature discovered in the friction for example, a new gear system infinitesimal, confirming
with admirable accuracy the same rules, that experience made him believe grossly belied by reality.

[36.]
If the universe is wonderful in his moles of immense grandeur, no less so in parts of infinite
smallness, we are between two infinite, and the weak man who is nowhere to a or the other, must be
content to feel them, hoping that a new existence will clarify the
arcane currency that now not only profound darkness.

CHAPTER VI.

CLARIFICATIONS ON THE EXTENSION.

[37.] If the extension is something, as we have already demonstrated, what is?

In the body we find the extension, in space also find the extension:
since in both find what is essentially: the dimensions.

Does the extension of bodies is the same as the space?

I have to my eye and hand me the pen, which is certainly no extension. She moves, and it also moves
its extension. His movement is executed in the space remains still. At time A, the extension of the
boom have been occupying the A 'of space; when B, the same extension of the pen is actually occupying
the B 'distinct space Part A ', then neither the A' of space, and
the part B ', are identified with the extension the body.

This seems to have the full force of a demonstration, that for clarity and generality reduced
to a syllogism. The things that separate or be separated, are different, so the extension of bodies
can be removed and separated from any part of space, then the extension of bodies and space are
different things. I said that this reasoning seems to have all the force of a demonstration,
but no longer subject to serious difficulties, but how are you can not be understood without
having considered the idea deeply space, I reserve to express my
opinion, for if you try this in the chapters following.

[38.] The extension of a body is the same body? I can not imagine the body without extension, but does
not prove that the extension is the same body.

My spirit has gained the knowledge bodies through the senses: they have given me or disperta,
the idea of ​​extension, but nothing I have said about the intimate nature of the body felt.

In these things we call bodies, found in our power to produce prints
very different from that of extension.

Extension of things as we get very different impressions: There is therefore the same thing
more than the extension. If there were more than this, where she would equal, would have the
same effect: experience shows otherwise.

In addition, we conceive extension in pure space, and yet we do not see the body. This when there
is no mobility, and space is stationary.

Does not exist when there is no capacity to produce prints, and the mere extension of space
does not have this capability.

Then the simple idea of ​​the extension does not contain, even in the state of our knowledge,
the whole idea of ​​the body. Ignore what the essence of this: but we know who enters on the
idea that it have, something more than extension.

[39.] When it is said that the body is inconceivable without extension, not to say that the extension
is the concept that constitutes the essence of the body.

This essence is unknown to us, and therefore we can not know what goes on it or not. Behold this
fair sense inseparability of the two ideas, extension and body. As we have no knowledge à
priori bodies, and how much they know, even their existence, received from sense, everything
we think or imagine about the bodies, must involve the serving as the basis of our feelings. This
basis as we have seen above, is the extension: no she does not feel, and without therefore,
the body ceases to exist for us, or reduced to a being that does not stand out from others.

Will
clarify these ideas. If stripping the bodies of the extension, and leave you only the nature
of a being, because of the impressions I get, then this is no different for me a spirit that
I produjese the same effects. I see the paper, and gives me the impression a white surface. No doubt
God could produce in my mind the same sensation, without there being
any body.

So assuming that I knew to my feeling not carries a large foreign object, and that alone is
caused by something that works on me it is clear that in my mind would be two things: 1. ª The
phenomenon of sensation, which in every case would be the same.

2. ª The idea of ​​being that occurs to me, and this idea would have more than a being different
from me, that works on me: it would have in relation to external two ideas, distinction and
causality.

Now, to this role dispossession of the extension, what's left? Same as above. 1. º A internal phenomenon
witnessed by my conscience. 2. º The idea of ​​a cause of this phenomenon. Nothing more.

I do not know if this is still a body, but I know that the idea of
​​the body such as I am, I get something else: I know this for me,
no different from other beings, and that if his innermost nature is
something that distinguishes them, this something is unknown to me
(V. cap.

1).

[40.] Here as in what direction I say the idea is for us inseparable extension of the body. But
this does not follow that these things are identified, and to deepen matter, may be found to
exist away from this identity, and body extension are two entirely different things. We have
seen that this was true by referring to the idea, which is an indication that the same happens
in reality.

[41.] Few have more clear ideas of extension geometrically considered, all attempt to explain
it is useless simply by intuition we know better than I could tell us volumes. This idea itself
is so bright that it is based on a body science, the most extensive and obvious that humanity
has: geometry. Then there are reasons to believe we know the true essence of extension, considered
in itself, because we know its necessary properties, and provided
evidence that it lies our more scientific edifice.

And yet this idea is not found, or impenetrability, nor any of the
properties of the body on the contrary, we see an indifferent capacity
for all of them.

Conceive so easily penetrable and impenetrable extension; empty as
full, white and green with properties to be in relationship with our
bodies as without them.

Extension conceive a disposition to affect body to another, as in the pure space: in the sun
that illuminates and warms the world, as in the vague dimensions of an entirely empty vastness.

CHAPTER
VII.

SPACE-NOTHING.

[42.] As explained in previous chapters may have noticed, that's ideas
always mixed extension of space, and when you want to set the real
nature of that, we also offer questions about the nature of this.

It is not possible explain any of those things, if left in the dark some of them, for the same
I shall deal at length on issues of space, so under ideal appearance as real, because only
this way we can proceed with some clarity in determining the nature of the extension.

[43.] Space: This is one of the deepest mysteries in the natural order offered the skinny man's
understanding. The more you delve into it, but it is dark: the spirit is as immersed in that
darkness that we figured out there in the vast depths of imaginary spaces. Know whether what you
experience are illusions or realities. For a moment he seems to have reached the truth, and
then discovers that it has narrowed its arms a vain shadow. Form speeches that other matters
would have to inconclusive and that are not in this, because they
are in opposition to others who also seem conclusive.

It would seem that it meets the limit to its research, has put the Creator: and that the endeavor
to pierce, fades, feels his flagging energy, your life extinguished, like all living on leaving
the element of its own.

When some philosophers are going slightly on space issues, and flattering to explain in two words,
it can be assured that either have not thought much about the difficulty that they hold, or to
meditate, they have not understood. Not proceed so, Descartes, Malebranche, Newton, and Leibniz.

Deepening
the bottomless pit is not wasting time in useless discussion, even if not be reached to find what
you are looking for, you get a very good result because touch the limits set to our spirit. It
is appropriate that we know what we can know and what is not, of this knowledge takes the philosophy
considered very high and profitable. Moreover, even with little hope of good result, it is
not possible to leave without test an idea it touches so close to the base of all our knowledge
concerning corporeal objects: the extension.

There is some reason to investigate where all philosophers have been investigated: What do
we know if long centuries of efforts to them is reserved the light, as the reward of constancy?

[44.]
What then is the space?

Is it something in reality? Is it just an idea? If an idea "Corresponds to an object in the
external world? Is it a mere illusion? The word space, is empty of meaning?

If you do not know what is the space, let us at least the sense of
the word with this Somehow we will post also in the state of the art.

By space we mean the extension imagine that placed the bodies: the ability to contain, to which
we attach no no quality of them, except the extension itself.

Assuming an airtight vessel, whose inside is empty, reduced to nothing As it is contained, and without
in any way be introduced nothing new, this cavity that capacity is, and in our understanding,
can be filled with body, that is a part of space. Imagine the world as a huge vessel in which they
are contained all the bodies: vaciémosle suddenly behold a cavity
with equal space the universe.

Let us imagine that beyond the limits of the world, there is capacity for other bodies behold
endless space or imaginary.

The space is presented at first sight, but as infinite, at least as indefinite. Because at any point
where a body placed conceive, you can also conceive move, describing
all sorts of lines taking variety of directions, and away indefinitely
the place where he was.

Next to that ability, to those dimensions, not limit them to imagine
whatsoever.

Then the space is presented as indefinite.

[45.] Will be no pure space?

Settle some that space, irrespective of any surface of bodies, and considered as a simple interval,
is pure nothing, admitting that he alone, can be tested two bodies are really distant, and
also add that even if the whole universe reduced to nothing, except
a single body, this could vary from place to move.

I think opinion holds that the contradictions that are difficult to reconcile. Who says extension-all,
it contradicts the terms, and yet this is reduced to the view we're talking.

[46.] If a room is reduced to nothing all that it contains, it seems that the walls can not be
distant. The idea of ​​distance, including a medium between objects: nothing can not be a means,
is nothing. If the delay is nothing, no distance, they will be empty
words.

To say that nothing can own property, to destroy all ideas, is to affirm the possibility of
being and not being at the same moment, and thus subvert the foundations of human knowledge.

[47.] To say that all content is annihilating negative space, is to play with words and leave
standing the same difficulty. This negative space is something or nothing, if anything, falls
are fighting opinion, if anything, the challenge remains the same.

[48.] If the answer is that in spite of not getting anything between
the surfaces, they nevertheless left with the ability to contain,
observe that this capability is not on the surfaces same, but the
distances between: otherwise arranged in any way the surfaces always
retain the same capacity, which is absurd.

We therefore advance a step: need to explain what that capacity, that distance, the question
is still intact.

[49.] Perhaps you could replicate that wiped contained within the
surfaces, not volume is destroyed that form, and the idea of ​​this
volume enters the building.

But I reply that the idea of ​​wrapping volume away, for if it does not exist, no volume, and there
is no such distance, if distance is a mere nothing.

[50.] Pondering to release these difficulties so hurry, think of a specific response at first
sight, but well considered, is as futile as the others. The distance, we say, is a sheer denial of
contact, the denial is pure nothing, then we have nothing with this what we want. I repeat that
this solution is as futile as the other: for if the distance is nothing but the denial of contact
distances no greater or less, all are equal; since in having denial
of contact, and be all you can be.

The same exists denial of contact between two surfaces that are far each one millionth of a line
like a million miles. This denial then, nothing explains the same problem continues to exist.

[51.]
Far from the idea of ​​distance can be explained by the contact, as its opposite, On the contrary,
the contact can only be explained by the distance. If you ask what is the proximity of two surfaces,
as explained by the immediacy, we say that touch because there is nothing between the two, because
there is no distance. In the idea of ​​contact the relative qualities do not come to the senses,
nor of the action that one contiguous bodies can exert over another, such as momentum or compression:
contiguity is a negative idea, purely geometrical: it contains nothing but denial away. Contiguity
has no more no less, for all that may be, it is enough that no distance is a real denial. Two things
can be more or less distant: but can not be played more or less, with respect to a same parties.
What can be is more contact points, but no further contact between
the same points.

[52.] Strive but the argument for the reality of space, on the assumption
that are attributed to capacity and distance.

Suppose an area of ​​two feet in diameter, entirely empty. Within that space is not over: if space
is nothing, nothing left.

I ask now: in the interior of the hollow sphere is it possible the movement? It seems certain; there
is no reason, there is a movable body, there is a greater extent than the body, no distance
to go. In addition, if the movement is not possible, it would be impossible also that the area
is filled with any body, after being empty, and emptying into being full. Neither empty nor filled
can be no movement of bodies in the interior of the sphere, and this movement is not a body
within another body, but in space: 1. º For the bodies are impenetrable: 2. No. Because when
it fills the area after having been empty, the body can not find
another body goes, and whoever comes out when the field is empty,
it moves through space it leaves, in which nothing but himself, and
nothing remains in dating him.

After assuming a hollow sphere, within it there can be movement. Now, if the content space is a pure
nothing, the movement is also nothing, and therefore does not exist. The movement can not exist
nor be conceived, but walking distance; this is essence, if the distance is nothing, anything goes,
then no motion. What will it mean the body has traveled half the diameter, or one foot? If this
is nothing, no mean nothing.

I do not know what to respond to all these good reasons in that axiom: nothing has no property.

[53.] However great the difficulties are refusing to give the space a reality, I do not reach that can
be as serious as those which militate against anything, on the assumption one wishes to grant extension.
Those, as we shall see, lie rather in certain problems born out of our way of thinking, that
based on sound reasons; when we have just proposed are based on the ideas that underlie all
knowledge: in that most unquestionable proposition: nothing has no properties. If this proposition
is not admitted as incontrovertible axiom goes awry all human knowledge, including the principle
of contradiction: for obvious contradiction is that nothing has any property or parties, that
nothing can say anything, that nothing can move anything that the
idea of ​​nothing can be founded a science as geometry, that refer
to nothing all calculations are made on the nature.

CHAPTER VIII.

OPINION Descartes and Leibniz, ON THE SPACE.

[54.] If space is something, what is?

Here is another very serious difficulty: to combat the opponents have been easy to hold the
position you choose, not be so.

Could it be said that space is nothing but the same extension of bodies, which conceived abstract,
which gives an idea of ​​what we call pure space, and that the diversity of points and positions,
are but modifications of the extension?

As soon as you see that if the space is the same extension of bodies, where there will be no
blank body. Then a vacuum is impossible. This result is inevitable.

So two philosophers have thought so egregious as Descartes and Leibnitz, but do not know why
both wanted to point out to the universe an indefinite extension. It is true that this sort
eluded difficult to imagine the spaces beyond the limits of the universe, then that if the universe
is limited, there can be nothing out of bounds, and therefore everything We can imagine is
within the universe.

But this is not to circumvent the difficulties but releasing them, for a review to avoid a hard drive,
nothing is in favor of strength.

[55.] According to Descartes the essence of body consists in extension, and as in space extension
conceived out of necessity, it follows that body, extension and space, are three things essentially
identical. The vacuum as usually conceived, is an extension or space without a body, is something
contradictory as that body is to assume, therefore that extension means, and no body, therefore it
is supposed to removed.

Descartes simply accept the ultimate consequences of this doctrine. Thus, proposing the difficulty
Founded in which we imagine that God could remove all matter contained in a glass, staying
the same shape of the glass, answered firmly that this is impossible. "For we can, he says, correcting
an opinion so false, we see that there is no necessary link between the glass and body that you
full, but it is so absolutely necessary between concave glass figure, and the extension must
be included in this concavity, which there is more reluctance to
conceive a mountain without a valley, that such an extension without
the concavity it contains, and this extension without any extended
thing, because it's nothing, as has been observed many times, can
not have extension.

For which reason, if we are asked What would happen if God removed the whole body is in a glass, without
allowing enter another answer to the sides of this vessel would be found so close, that would play
immediately. For two bodies must touch when there is nothing between them, it would be contradiction
in these two bodies were apart, ie have distance from each other, and that this distance was not anything.
Distance is a extension property that can not exist without the extension "(Princ. of Filos. p. 2.
§ 18).

[56.] If cinemas Descartes argued that space, because it contains real distances can not be a
pure nothing, its reasoning would seem conclusive, but when he adds
that the space is the body, for the reason that space extension and
the extension is the essence the body, seat does not prove a thing.

They do not conceive or imagine body without extension, only follows
that the extension is a property of the body, without which we will
not conceive, but not that is its essence. To be sure of this, it
would be necessary as we have the idea of ​​extension, the body we
had also to see if among them are identity. But the bodies we know
nothing but what we experienced through the senses, without being
there been given to penetrate the intimate nature.

Where does the
inseparability of the extension and body ideas? Last of all, you must understand that this Spirit of Copper is
a fiery Spirit, penetrating, searching and consuming all evil Humours, and superfluous Flegme
in Man and Metals, and may in reason be accounted the Crown of Medicines; it is very fiery
and sharp, incombustible, but spiritual and unformal, and therefore as a Spirit it can particularly
help to make unformal things fiery, digest and ripen them; and if you are a true Naturalist,
I recommend this Spirit unto thee; it will not fail thee in the least, in any necessity of
Health or Wealth, in case you observe it rightly, and execute according to Justice. I hope
my Call and Request will at last take place, and have a hearing with those who regard Nature,
and have an earnest and longing desire to search out, and learn, whereby they may whet their
Wits, open their Eyes, and let their Ears hear, and learn such a thing out of my Advice, which
was never taken notice of, or learn'd before, and is to be found in this Spirit of Copper,
internal and external. He that doth not observe, or truly understand my Writings, will not
fathom many Secrets, nor search out to purpose and in truth, nor learn to advantage without
me, therefore no Man can direct me, as concerning the Spirit of Copper, except he hath beforehand
inverted and turned the Copper inside outwards, and truly learned all the Mysteries of its
internal Virtues, as I have done, if he can find out any thing better, which I know not, I
earnestly desire him not to conceal any thing, so shall his instruction be well rewarded, with
a thousand-fold advantage, and recommend you herewith to the Highest Creator.

    Vain Reason cannot alwayes apprehend
    Each matter which Venus can bring to an end:
    No man can find it presently in sence,
    Vain Reason banns it far away from thence;
    Such a Spirit only can all things speed,
    So that Mercury be joyn'd with it indeed.

CHAP. V.

Of the Spirit and Tincture of Mars.

Mars and Venus have a Spirit and Tincture as well as Gold and other Metals, be that Spirit
which is in each Metal never so mean and little. It is undeniable and known to all, that many
men have many minds, though all men originally are of one first Matter, born and produced from
one Seed; yet have they divers different Minds, because the Stars have so operated them, and
not without cause; for the influences of the great World operates the next to it in the little
World; for all Opinions, Natures and Thoughts, together with the whole complection of Man proceed
alone from one Influence of the Stars, manifesting themselves according to the Course of the
Planets and Stars, so that nothing can prevent, nor can such Influences hinder it, when the
Birth hath attained to the end of its perfection.

As a man is naturally inclined to study; one delights in Divinity, another in the study of
the Laws, a third in Physick, a fourth will be a Philosopher; moreover there are many Wits
who are naturally inclined to the Mechanicks; as the one is a Painter, another a Goldsmith;
the one a Shoomaker, the other a Taylor, a Carver, and so forth, divers and innumerable; all
this happens by the Stars influence, whereby the Imagination is supernaturally founded & fortified,
and whereupon it is resolved to rest; as it is found, that what a man hath once conceived in
his Mind, and framed a foundation thereof, none can divert him from a constant resolution and
relying thereon, except Death, which at last concludes all. So is it to be understood of Alchymists,
who are set upon the search of Natures Secrets, they intend not to cease, till they have discover'd
Nature, absolved it quite, and brought all to an end, which cannot well be done.

Even so is it to be understood of Metals, according as the Influence and Imagination is from
above, so is the Form; and although the Metals be called Metals in general, and are such, yet
you have understood by the various minds of men, which yet proceed from one Matter, that there
may be manifold and divers Metals, one hot and dry, another cold and moist, a third assuming
a mixt Nature and Complection to it self. Therefore the Metal of Mars being ordained in its
degree by a gross Salt before others in the greatest quantity, is found to have the hardest,
ungentle, strongest, and grossest Body, which Nature appropriated and granted to it, it hath
the least portion of Mercury, but more of Sulphur, and most of Salt, hence, and from such a
mixture or composition is its corporal essence descended, and born into the world by help of
the Elements. Its Spirit is like to the other Spirits in operation, but if you can know the
right and true Spirit of Mars, I tell you truly, and in true Wisdom, that one grain of its
Spirit or Quintessence drunk with the Spirit of Wine, strengthens the Heart, Courage, and Senses,
so that you shall fear no Foes; it raises up in him the Courage of a Lion, and provokes a desire
to hunt and fight at Venus sports. When the Conjunction of Mars and Venus are rightly placed
in a certain Constellation, they bring Fortune and Victory in Love and Affection, in Battel
and joy, remaining in unity though the whole World should be against them: But because I am
an Ecclesiastick under Church Government, and dedicated my Soul to God, without provocation
of humane desires, and lusts of the Flesh, for they lead a direct way to Hell without leave;
but Gods Commands, Fear, and a rejection of Mans Will, which are tollerated by his Commands,
prepare a way to Heaven, if they continue in the true calling upon, and in the true and right
Faith of the only Throne of Grace, Mediator and Patron Jesus Christ our Saviour. All Martial
Diseases are expell'd, cured, and healed in an admirable manner by this Spirit; such as are
the Bloody Flux, the Disease or Menstruous Fluxes of Women, both white and red, and all other
Fluxes of the Belly, and open Sores in the Legs, or any part of the Body, together with all
those Diseases, both internal and external, howsoever they are called, which bloody Mars hath
caused, which I omit to nominate particularly, being well known unto the discreet Physician
what Diseases are subject to the jurisdiction of Mars. If the Spirit of Iron be truly known,
it hath a secret affinity with the Spirit of Venus, so that both may be conjoined in one, both
becoming one only matter, of a like operation, form, substance and being, healing and expelling
the self-same Diseases, as also to bring the particulars of the Metals into a change with profit,
praise, and excess. I
find that life-giving power in a portion of matter admirably organized, and conspires to an
organization whose purpose is the harmonious exercise of the powers of this living we call animal
not knowing what that force in itself, does not prevent me to affirm its existence, and that
the phenomena revealed to me in an incontestable.

[17.] What then is the fate of these souls or those vital forces in destroying they enliven
the organization? Is it reduced to nothing and can not be broken not consist of parts? Will they
continue to exist, waiting for their turn to chair a new organization? Here are several questions
that determine who is good to examine then separately.

If the soul of brutes has no parts, disorganization can not perish; not disorganized which is not
organized, and it is not that which has no organized party.

From this it follows that the soul of brutes can not perish by corruption itself, for so it
has to verify all be that is not composed of matter. I do not see that under this aspect can offer
no difficulty, but the question is unresolved but its negative part,
because so far we only know that the soul of brutes is not corrupted
or decomposition does not die; fáltanos know what it is, is it overwhelms?

Are you still there? and if so, in what way? These are different questions.

Above all it should be noted here fit conjecture, rather on the possibility of reality, philosophy
can make us descry what might have, not what is, as reality can be to us not known without
experience, and that we need in this case. In good philosophy, when asked what is on this point,
the best answer is: no I know, when asked what could be, then enter
the reasoning based on general principles, and particularly in the
analogy.

[18.] It is often said that nothing is destroyed, this proposition was necessary explanations. What
means to annihilate? cease to be, without remaining anything that had before, if disorganized a body,
no longer as an organized body, but the matter remains, there is as annihilation. Is it true
that nothing is destroyed? According to some, one must distinguish between substances and accidents;
as the latter are a kind of incomplete beings, there is no objection to leave to be without remaining
anything from them, but that will not annihilate itself disappearance says: so we see that things
are continually transformed, ie suffering from a succession accidents, which no longer exist
when the thing ceases to be amended as respective. As to the substance, if there would cease
to be true annihilation; but this does not take place because no substance is destroyed. So
some people think, I do not know what is truth in this system because I do not know which is the solid
foundation that can buttress. If a substance for an object, in ceasing this why could not annihilate?
A being raised, you need continuity of action breeder Being conservative, thus stated that conservation
is a continuous creation and when leaving the object that is intended to raised substance,
what problem will it be annihilated? I do not see that this repugnant and to the wisdom or
the goodness of God, when an architect has an instrument to stop serve, or discard as unusable:
in God this would be equivalent to removing the conservative action, and the creature, to be
reduced to nothing, if not repugnant to the wisdom and goodness of God that an organized being
is disorganized or ceases to exist and be organized, why they hate which a substance ceases to
exist when they had fulfilled the purpose for which it was intended? this it follows that
it would not be contrary to sound philosophy to hold that the souls
of brutes are reduced to nothing.

[19.] But suppose you do not want to go to annihilation, is there any problems or continue in its
existence? if any, is not reached.

What might? I do not know, but it is permissible to surmise that absorbed back in the deep
of nature would be useless. Nor do we know they serve many other beings, not However, neither denying
its existence so, or we question its usefulness. Who has told us the life force that resides
in the rough not having any object in destroying she encouraged the organization? The destruction of
a plant "by chance brings extinction of all vital forces in this living? and those forces, to
exercise its action about being organized is just destroyed, "left by chance to be useful in
the mysterious laboratory of nature? Who told us that a vital force can not be useful but exerted
on an object of our observation? Who told us that in the secret nature of the vital forces do not
act in ways very different, very many, and the effects of their activities do not occur in
very different ways, according to circumstances they are all in conformity to the laws established
by the infinite wisdom? The great profusion with which they are scattered seminal materials, the
number of germs find that everywhere, the immense amount of subject matter in processing and
assimilation in living the mysteries of generation in the plant and animal All this does not
indicate that the universe is shed by a number of vital forces, which operate in very different
ways and on a scale of amazing extension? Who assures us that one vital principle is unable
to produce very different phenomena according to the which is subject to conditions? which lies
in the acorn is not the same as the corpulent oak which has challenged the momentum of hurricanes
for a few centuries? If experience not testify who would be able to suspect that the vital principle
of a worm report and foul is the same as a beautiful butterfly? See it as it is contrary neither
to the reason or experience, to suppose that the soul of brutes, that life force in them lies,
whatever it is, continues to destroy the organization after his body, and absorbed back into
the treasures of nature, preserved in them, not as a useless, but exerting its activity in different
ways according to the conditions subject to which it is [I].

CHAPTER III.

Sleep and wakefulness.

[20.] The fact the feeling is linked with others, and this link is much of our knowledge. It has
been said tone is quite confident that it was not possible to demonstrate feelings by the existence
of bodies, because one thing that those being purely inside, it was possible that would lead
us to infer the existence of an external one, and there was no objection to all our feelings
were a set of individual phenomena locked inside our soul. At first glance it seems impossible
to drop the difficulty: no But if you examine it thoroughly, they
will see that you have been given more importance it deserves.

[21.] The first objection is often made against the testimony of the senses is based on difficult
to distinguish with certainty the waking state of sleep. Sleeping receive impressions similar
to those which affect us awake: how do we make sure that the illusion is not life? The Abbe
de La-Mennais, with that exaggeration that characterizes him, has
said: "Those who prove that the whole life is a dream, a chimera indefinable
would do more than what they could all philosophers to date.

"

I think this is in serious difficulties, but I can not persuade me to be insoluble. I first of all
to examine whether sleep and wakefulness are different, not only in the eyes of sense common, but also
on the right. La-Mennais intended that only the court's consent community can achieve a final
and satisfactory, I am convinced that the reason severe cases can reach the same result to
leading us together, the inner meaning, common sense and common consent,
or in other words, the testimony of our being and that of our peers.

[22.] The man finds itself in a completely satisfactory assurance
of difference between sleep and waking, to know that we are awake
we do not need the testimony of others.

The difference between these states must be sought not only to the clarity and vividness of
feelings, and current certainty that they engender. Undoubtedly, sometimes in the dream images
presented to us as clearly as if we were awake, and that the certainty is now complete. Who has not
experienced during sleep, lively joy or terrible anguish? It is true that some, very rarely,
disperta, we reminiscence that in the very act of sleep loomed the question of whether we dreamed,
but they rarely frequency, and in general can be sure that the dream does not go along with
this twilight of reflective reason, that warns us of our state, and the illusion that we suffer.
For the ordinary, the duration of sleep, I have no doubt about what we dream, and embracing
a friend with a tender effusion, or cried uncontrollably over his
grave, under the same conditions we would produce the reality.

[23.] The difference is not in the current uncertainty, because on
the contrary, usually have complete certainty.

Where is it? Indicates how the reason? How comes philosophy in support of the internal sense and common
sense? This is what we are going to examine.

Regardless of whether sensations have some relation to external objects, whether his testimony is
sufficient for this or that case, and considering them only as phenomena
of our soul, there are two completely different orders of characters
acts very marked: the sleep and wakefulness.

In the depths of our souls, these two states are entirely different: even in the idealistic
system, we must recognize this distinction.

Reflecting on what we experience from which we live, or from which! what happens within us, we can
see that there is in our being two kinds of phenomena. A regular and steady, experienced two
sets of feelings: the one most or less clear, more or less alive, simply limited to the subject
without the assistance of many of our faculties, and especially without reflection on themselves,
in pursuit are other, always clear, always alive, accompanied by acts of all our faculties,
with reflection on them, on their difference of the above, with complete
subjection to our free will in all matters relating to vary, modify,
and reproduce them disappear in a thousand different ways.

I see the paper on which I write, I reflect on this vision, and I take it off when I want and
return to have it when I like, and I link this feeling with others, and a thousand thoughts, with
a thousand fancies, if I like it. What happens to me in this act, has ever happened to me,
and goes on while I check on me this series of events in this state I call waking; but if you
dream of writing, even if it did not happen that often, if not direct hit pen, not to see it
clear, all confused, I do not feel that simultaneous exercise of all my faculties, not reflect
on the state where I am, I am with the full awareness of what I do with that domain myself, with
the clear light and lively in the waking state is poured over all my actions and their objects.
Dispierto, I think what I did, as I do, what do I remember the dreams and qualify for illusions,
and judge them as unrelated species, extravagant, and compare them with the order and the consequence
of what is being offered at the vigil. None of this while I sleep: maybe There will be a clear
feeling, living, but in a way independent of my will; is an isolated printing is the use of
a single power, without the help of others, without fixed and constant comparisons, as I get
when I'm awake, and above all this phenomenon disappears shortly, or return to be plunged into a state
that I have no conscience of me, or go into another, which reproduces the same set of phenomena
than before: clear lucid related; undergoing the test of reason compared to each other and with the
above. Then, apart from any idea of ​​the outside world, and even every other being outside
ourselves, we the accuracy of the distinction of the two orders of phenomena, we understand the
words, sleep and wakefulness.

When it has tried to attack the certainty of our knowledge on the basis of the difficulty to distinguish
between these states, has seized on a futile argument, supported by a made entirely false.
So far I believe in the impossibility of distinguishing philosophically
waking from sleep, rather that I think the difference between these
two states is a of the most clear and certain of our nature.

Established this truth, and of course no doubt that the sensations
experienced during sleep, are not produced by external objects, and
therefore has not ever taken the as a means of getting the truth,
let us turn to another question of greater difficulty and importance.

CHAPTER IV.

RELATIONSHIP OF AN EXTERNAL WORLD SENSATION.

[24.] Our feelings do they have any relation to external objects or phenomena are simple of our
nature? The existence of this inner world that is the set of scenes offered by the feelings, can
we infer the existence of an external world?

This is not the practice but the theory: this question relates only to the forces of reason,
not to the voice of nature: the stronger voice than any speech, and it is impossible to resist. Whatever
the result we shall give a philosophical examination relations between the ideal and the real
world, it must submit to the need for our nature that makes us believe
in the existence of such relationships.

Humanity in the vast majority of individuals, not ever thought, and probably think, in such examination,
and yet, for her, the existence of a real world, different from us, and continuous communication
with us is immune from doubt. Nature is before that philosophy.

Do not want to indicate that the reason is powerless to express the legitimacy of the inference
It follows that the real from the ideal, or the existence of the external world of the inmate;
I intend only to draw a boundary philosophy, if not shown, at least inspire you sobriety in their
research, and mistrust in the results. And in effect, jump to the eyes must be wrong to oppose
science to contradict a necessity and a fact palpable does not deserve the name of philosophy,
which is set to fight a law that subjects his unwavering rule of humanity, even the philosopher
who dares against this law to protest. All she can say against this law will be as specious as desired;
but not more than an idle reverie: reverie that if the weakness of the understanding bastare to
undo, it will be good to resist nature, until a new existence in
another life has come to reveal what is in the depths of these mysteries,
and how they link those links whose contact points can spot the reason,
while nature experiences Grasp the irresistible that link at all stages
of their existence.

[25.] That feeling is something more than mere phenomena of our soul, which are effects of a cause
other than ourselves, is shown by the comparison of them with each
other; about the refer to an external object, and others do not: these
two orders of phenomena present characters very different.

Now there is in me to represent the country where I was born and lived in my first years. It
clearly gives me the broad plain with its fields and meadows, with their low hills that are now isolated
mounds, now extend in several directions flattening to be confused with the level of flat or gradually
rising until joining with the branches of the mountains. I see the high mountain range that
surrounds this whole plain, and that makes it a vast basin, where no more output can be seen
by the party of the south, and the occasional crack that seems to rip into some points raised
by the great wall nature. All this represents me very well inside me, notwithstanding further
than a hundred leagues away: and I represent many times I will, and by the time I want. Perhaps
that may happen without the help of my will offer me the same show, but I'm always free to
distract me, running down the curtain so to speak, for not see that
scene as well as to rise again when I feel like to witness it.

What happens in that instance I was checked against many others, and so I experience within myself
a series of events that I represent external objects, but without
any need to force me to be subjected to them, they take them off and
reproduce with simple acts of my own free will.

At the same time I feel in me happens that another class of phenomena that are not pending my
will, I can not stir or remove when I want, but are subject to certain
conditions, of which I can not do without, on pain of not achieving
what I propose.

Now that I'm experiencing is a picture, or common language, I see a picture I have before. Let
this be a purely internal, and observe the conditions of their existence,
irrespective of any external reality, including that of my body and
the organs through which they passed me, or seem to spread the feeling.

Now

experience the feeling .... now, what has mediated? the sensation of movement, has produced another
sensation of seeing and vision that has destroyed the first, or from the ideal to the real
language, I brought her hand between his eyes and the object. How is it that while is the last sensation
I can not play the first? If there are external objects, if my feelings are produced by them,
it is clear that subject to the conditions that they impose on them: but if my sensations are
nothing more than internal events, then there is no way to explain it.

This is even more incomprehensible, as in the feelings that we consider simple phenomena, no immediate
relation to any external object, we found no close dependence of one compared to others, and on the
contrary we noticed a lot of disagreement.

Purely internal events, ie those we truly be for such, are very dependent on the will, with
respect to its existence and also to their changes. I play whenever I want in my imagination,
a scene in which I represents the column of the Place Vendome in Paris, and make it disappear when
I like. The same thing happens to me all the other objects that I remember seeing: his presence
in my interior depends on my will. It is true that sometimes you would not want to represent objects,
and hard to make them disappear, but so is that some efforts are sufficient to finally disappear.
Have we seen a person dying, and for a few days remains imprinted in our imagination with his
face pale and South-East, his eyes bulging, convulsive hands, the contortions of his mouth, his painful
death rattle interrupted by some plaintive woes, we are not masters of all of this we are not ungrateful
repeatedly image, but it is certain that if we intend to distract a very complicated calculation,
or solve a difficult problem, we will make the image disappear. Whence we see even in exceptional
cases, provided that we are in sound mind, always exercise our will a great influence on the
phenomena purely internal.

Not so with those who are in immediate relationship with the outside, if I am in the presence the
dying person can not but see and hear you: if those feelings are nothing more than a internal
phenomenon, this phenomenon is of an order very different from the other: one is completely independent
my will, the other not.

Purely internal phenomena are interlinked in a very different others:
those relationships too much influence will, in others not. This prepared Flax is afterwards buck'd, beaten, broken,
peel'd, and last of all dress'd, that the pure may be separated from the impure, the clean
from the filth, and the fine from the course; which otherwise could not be done at all, or
brought to pass without the preceding preparation; this done, they spin Yarn of it, which they
boil in water over the Fire, or else with Ashes set in a warm place, whereby it is purified
afresh, whereby the filth and superfluities are fully separated from it, and after a due washing
the Yarn is dried again, delivered to the Workmen, and Cloth weaved of it; this Cloth is purified
or whitened by a frequent casting of water upon it, cut in pieces by Taylors, and other people,
so converted to future services in houshold affairs, and when this Linnen is quite worn out,
and torn, the old Rags are gathered together, and sent to the Paper-Mills, whereof they make
Paper, which is put unto divers uses.

If you lay Paper upon a Metal or Glass, kindle and burn it, the vegetable Mercury comes forth
and flies away into the Air, the Salt remaines in the ashes and the combustible Sulphur which
is not so quickly consumed in the burning, dissolves to an Oil, which is a good Medicine for
dim and defective Eyes. This Oil hath in it a great fatness, which is the Matter of the Paper,
contained originally in the Seed of the Flax; so that the last Matter of the Flax which is
Paper, must again be dissolved into the first Matter, which is the fat Sulphurous Oyliness
of the Flax-seed, together with the separation of its Mercury and Salt, that so the first may
be made of the last, and the ground-work revealed, so the Virtues and Operations known by the
first. Everything will be in the dark over
deep, will imagine that darkness reproduced lying on the face of the deep before breeder say that
the word "Let there be light."

But it should be noted that leaving the world in such horrible darkness, we have not altered any
of its other laws exist as before, the giant moles touring with amazing speed admirable precision
and immense orbits. From this it follows that being disregarded smell, taste, sound, color,
light, the world still exists, without being no cost work conceived in this way. Even more, even
the sensation of touch can without, it will be easy to assume that we do not perceive any posters
in this sense, the Color or cold, tenderness or hardness, the causes remain in the body, we can
replace each other and even make them disappear, but why let us believe that the universe to
exist.

[50.] After taking all these abstractions, try anything and see what happens. Do away with the extension.
In this test, the universe does not stand: the masses of the stars disappear, the earth under
our feet crushes, the gap ceases to exist, the motion is an absurdity, our own body disappears,
the entire universe is plunged into nothing, or whether it is still
something, is something entirely different from what we imagine now.

Undoubtedly, if we dispense with the extension, if this feeling, or idea, or whatever it is,
that on it we have not performed on the outside, if not regarded as a representation of what exists
outside us, everything goes haywire, do not know what to think or our feelings or their relationships
with objects that cause them: everything revolves around, we lack a basis of our knowledge, we
tend in vain arms to cling of some fixed point, and asked in grief,
if all you feel is not more than a pure illusion, if you are a true
Berkeley extravaganzas.

[51.] Even with respect to the extension is worthy of remark, that while moving it objectify
to the outside, it is absolutely true that is represented by the sensation. Best I would say that
is a receptacle of certain feelings, not an object of them, a condition necessary for the functions of
some senses, not felt a thing. The abstracted extension the sensations of sight and touch,
is reduced to what we said above, the multiplicity and continuity and knowing this, comes from
the senses, but is different from what we represent the senses. As to the impressions I received
from them sight remove the color and light is certainly my idea of ​​an extended thing, not
a thing visible, or an object represented by the sensation. Of its own destiny if you spoil
the impressions I have been through touch, qualities that affect this sense, not destroys the
object that caused it, but not represented by the impressions that
he'd transmitted.

[52.] These observations demonstrate that the outside to move our feelings, these are a means
by which we report, our soul, but no pictures in which she contemplates objects. All of them
tell an external cause, but some, like the view and touch, will manifest
in a particular way the multiplicity and continuity, I mean the extension.

From

this it also follows that the outside world is a pure illusion, that there is actually with huge
masses, its various movements, infinite geometry, but that much its beauty and charm are on
us rather than on it. And infinitely powerful hand knew that he has raised, has held its wisdom and power
in a particular way in sentient beings, and above all intelligent. What would the universe if
there was none felt and understood? In this intimate relationship, in the ongoing communication
of objects with sentient beings, are the beauty, harmony, the mysteries of nature. The most
beautiful picture, had it not who you look and perceive its beauty, it would be a set of lineaments,
a hieroglyphic of undecipherable characters, but from the moment which is at the view of one
who feels and knows, the picture comes to life, is what should be, and in this mysterious communication,
the object gains in beauty all that communicates spell.

Suppose that a set of instruments provided with the appropriate mechanism to execute admirable
precision the best conceptions of Mozart or Bellini, "it all comes down to needed to be sensitive?
to air vibrations combined with a certain law, to pure movement of a fluid subjected to a geometric
precision. Introduce a man, then the geometry heavenly harmony becomes, then there is music, there
are charms.

The symmetry of the tables in a garden, the freshness of your shrubs, color and glaze of flowers, fragrant
aromas, what is not a sentient being? geometric shapes, surfaces arranged according to certain
laws, volumes of this or that class, fluid columns emerging from them, and are scattered throughout
the space, but introduces man, then geometric figures are clothed in a thousand thanks, the
flowers are covered with Galanos colors, fluid column become exquisite
aromas.

CHAPTER X.

OBJECTIVE VALUE OF TOUCH FOR THE SENSATIONS.

[53]. It has been said that touch is the surest witness and perhaps the only, the existence bodies,
for without it all the feelings would pass no simple modifications ourselves, and we could
not attribute any external object. I do not think this is true. By touch we get an impression
as well as by the other senses, in all cases this impression is a
condition of our being, not an external thing, and when the continuation
of these impressions, by his order and independence of our will, we
judge that come from objects outside of us, this view is true not
only with respect to impressions of touch, but also the other senses.

[54.] One of the reasons we have tried to establish the superiority of touch to testify the existence
of bodies, is that he gives us the idea or the sensation of extension, because if we assume
that a man is deprived of all senses except touch and goes with hand the surface of your body,
you experience the continuity of feeling, in which the extension is wrapped. This observation of the
supporters of the supremacy of touch not convinced of what they propose. Because to go with
it several objects, or different parts of self, we experience the feeling of continuity as
clearly as the touch.

You can not conceive why the feeling of the extension has to be more clear when runs his hand
along a railing, which when viewed with the eyes.

[55.] Holders of this opinion claim that by the touch of our bodies acquire a double sensation,
which does not take place with the other senses, passing his hand
across his forehead, Sorry to the forehead and hand, verifying the
continuity of feelings, that all have their origin and end in ourselves.

Thus we have the awareness that we belong both the sensation of the hand like the front.

But this reason that some have thought conclusive, is nevertheless extremely trivial: suffers fallacy
of the begging call dialectical, it is the same as it is testing. In effect, the man removed
from all respects except that of touch, experience the two sensations and continuity, but it does
what it can infer? Do you know by chance that be hand or forehead? not supposed to, the difficulty
lies in explaining how they acquired the knowledge. Both belong sensations, this is an inner
consciousness, but ignores where they derive.

The coincidence of the two sensations do you test something for fortune the existence of the
forehead and hand, we assume that objects have no idea?

If this match to prove what you want, with more reason that the combination would prove some
way with others, leads us to knowledge of the existence of bodies, and therefore that knowledge
is generated not only by touch. I always experiment I have the feeling of a movement that is
to put your hand in front of the eyes, I lose In view of the objects, and another that comes
to me is always the same: the hand, if this coincidence infer the existence of external objects,
it is destroyed the supremacy of touch, then, that for the formation of such a view affects the
view. Also observed that to have the feeling that it is to lend a hand with another, experience
the sensation of hearing slap noise: if the match then it will influence the ear and touch.
What say the slap, you can apply to what I experience walking hand
part the body, such as the length of the arm, so that the friction
produces noise.

In this case, there are two sensations, coincident and continuous.

May be replied that these examples refer to different senses, and produce feelings of different
species, but this does not change anything, because if the sentient
infers the existence of objects in the overlap of the various sensations,
supremacy is destroyed touch that is what we intended to prove.

[56.] The sensation of the hand is not the same as that of the front, because that will be more
or less cold, more or less hot, more or less fine, more or less soft, and so will not same
feeling that caused in his forehead, that produced in the front by hand. Is worthy of note
that the lower suppose the difference between the two sensations, less living is the perception
of duality, and therefore less remarkable coincidence that cover the trial. So well analyzed by the
subject to come to stop that train view of the existence of objects contributes especially the diversity
of sensations; and therefore be more conducive to this end, the combination of two ways that
the two sensations of one.

Thus, far from the touch has to be regarded as unique or superior in this point, one has to be
taken as an auxiliary to the other.

[57.] And in fact, little doubt that the touch also need the help of others senses, and that trials
of the same result resembles those arising from them. Is likely that only after repeated experiments
refer the sensation of touch in order the cause, and even to the affected part. The man has amputee
hand experience pain as if retained, and this why? because the repetition of acts has made
the habit of referring the impression brain to the point where the nerves end the broadcast. Then
there is no necessary relation between touch and the object: and this sense may suffer illusions
as the other.

Therefore it is precisely what has been said that the idea of ​​the
body grows under our hand, if this is understood as exclusive to the
touch, since the same is verified of the other senses, particularly
sight.

CHAPTER XI.

LOWER COMPARED TO OTHER SENSES TOUCH.

[58.] This superiority, or better, this exclusive privilege and other philosophers Condillac
granted to the touch, more of having no foundation as we have seen, appears to be in contradiction
with the very nature of this connection.

Is given supremacy fully to more material, so to speak, the rudest of them all.

No one can know the ideas of things a man would form reduced to only touch: but I think that far
to get in clear and vivid communication with the outside world, and they had sufficient knowledge
bases to support his claim, it should vegetate in the most profound ignorance, and suffer the most
far-reaching mistakes.

[59.] Comparing with the light touch, and even with the hearing and smell, of course is offered
a major difference in favor of this and against that. Touch conveys no but the impression of
objects that are immediate to our body when the other three, and
especially the view, put us in communication with distant objects.

Stars are still separated from us by such a distance that barely fits in our imagination, and yet
we see, certainly less than that or the smell or the ear, but the first continues to warn
of the existence of a garden that is many steps away from us, and the second gives us news
of a battle that has stuck to many miles of our home, electric spark that has torn the cloud in
the confines of the horizon, or the storm that rages in the immensity of the sea.

[60.] This limitation of touch with what is in the vicinity, would result in the narrowing of the
ideas originating in his own, and are by necessity at a very lower than the other three, and
in particular of the view. To form clear ideas this point, compare the sight and touch in relation
to an object: a building. Through the view we take in a few moments idea of ​​the facade, and
its other parts field: and in short time we heard of his interior disposition, and even their
furniture and ornaments. How can this be done by touch? It is impossible. Even supposing very
delicate and very tenacious memory of the impressions that he wandered about communicating, it
would take long hours to go with the hand the frontispiece, and to form some idea of ​​it. What would
not be with respect to everything outside the building? What if we talk about inside? Jump
to the eyes it would be necessary to renounce the task, and that
such a beautiful work of a ledge of a pedestal, a colonnade, such
magnificence of a tower, a dome, such boldness an arch, a vault, an
arrow, the eye seen in a moment, it would cost to poor only possessed
the touch, much to walk on all fours and climb to dangerous scaffolding,
and exposed horrendous to slide down cliffs, and still unable to achieve
or one millionth of which so easily and quickly got the eyes.

Let them stretch these considerations into a city, to vast countries, the universe and see what superiority
so vast is the view of the touch.

[61.] This superiority does not appear so evident when you compare the touch and other senses;
but not without also exist, and a very high degree.

Since then a difference occurs, which is the distance. It is true that mediate these, touch
can also feel in some way: such as the presence or absence of sun
through heat and cold, and just as the presence or absence, and most
or less proximity of some bodies, but these impressions, but they
are far from have the same range and speed of the ear, would give
us no idea of ​​distance, if we had no more sense than touch.

Heat and cold, dryness and humidity, this is reduced to the impressions
that some distant bodies may exert on the touch, and clear is that
the impressions are of a nature that could give rise to many serious
mistakes.

[62.] If we assume that a man who owns one touch, you have come to know the presence and the
absence of the sun on the horizon, their only standard room temperature, and depending on this a
thousand reasons that have nothing to do with the star of the day, happen to change very often
that natural or artificial it will induce you into error. Moisture you will experience near a lake
where you have to bathe, will make her aware of the immediacy of
the water but do not feel a thousand times an impression of moisture
causes that will work on air, completely independent of the waters
of a lake?

It is true that the concentration of all forces in a single sensory effect, no distraction, continuous
attention on the same kind of feelings, may take the delicacy touch of perfection to a point
that we probably can not conceive, as well as the habit of linking ideas with respect to a single
order of sensations, and to form judgments in relation to them alone, would produce a precision,
accuracy and range as far superior to We can imagine, but more on this point wish to extend the
conjecture is provided is clear that there is a limit here, which is the nature of the court and
its relationship with bodies. This body would be always limited to adjacent objects, to receive impressions
well-defined, and with respect to the distant, which could act on it, execute give the impression
that the nature of both consent, cold or heat, dryness or humidity, and even if you will,
a certain pressure to a greater or lesser degree, and as to many others, is impossible to imagine
that they had no action. For over a widening circle of this kind of feelings must always be
very small. It is also necessary to note that this perfectibility of touch as a result of his
isolation, his property is not exclusive but also extends to other senses, as being founded on the laws
of the organization, and in the generation of our ideas.

[63.] To understand the superiority in this part has the ear to the touch, enough to consider
1. º The ratio of distances, 2. º a variety of objects, 3. º the
rapid succession impressions, 4. º simultaneity, so vast in the ear,
and so limited in touch; 5.

No word relationships.

Ratio of distances. It is clear that at this point leads to touch the ear, that usually needs
the immediacy, this is not, and even his need for good appreciation the object, distance to
class well-off sound. How many and how many objects distant, do not tell us the ear, with respect
to which nothing can touch you tell us? The gallop of the horse that threatens hit, the noise
of the stream that can take us, the thunder rumbles and announces the storm, the roar of the
cannon that gives us news that a battle has begun, the sound of racing, the shouting, drums
and bells, which indicate the eruption of popular anger, loud music us reports the joy caused
by a betrothal, the concert dedicated to the pleasures of salon, the song that enchants us
with wistful memories, feelings of hope and of love, oh! warns us of suffering, crying that afflicts
us with the idea of ​​misfortune; all this tells us the ear, above
all tell us that nothing can touch.

Variety of objects. Distant objects gives us news that the feel is of necessity very little variety,
and therefore the ideas that only it turns out, would be subject
to deplorable confusion, and to great uncertainty.

The hearing on the contrary, reports of infinite very different objects, and executes it with precision
and accuracy.

Rapid succession of impressions. It is clear that this part has to
touch the ear incalculable superiority. This when seen by juxtaposition,
you need to go on objects and even different parts of oneself, whether
to receive various impressions: This requires a long time for small
numbers they are. But because other Labours prevent me therein, of making a longer Narration, I therefore
put a Conclusion to this Treatise at present, referring the other concerning the concealed
Secrets of Minerals until I have a purpose to write further, in a particular Treatise of Antimony,
Vitriol, Brimstone, Magnet, and which in especial are endowed before others, and depend upon
those, out of which Gold and Silver have their beginning, middle and end, together with the
true transmutation particularly; which virtues and power they have received out of one thing,
wherein all these lie to be generated invisibly concealed, together with all Metals; which
matter is publick before the eyes of all men, but because the vertues and powers are very deeply
buried and unknown to the most part, therefore this matter is likewise esteemed as nothing,
or of no value, and unprofitable, out of ignorance; even as the Disciples of the Lord going
to Emaus, their eyes were opened at the breaking of Bread, that they knew wonder above wonder,
what the rich Creator hath placed in the vile creature, the name is Hermes, who carries a flying
Serpent in his Shield, having a Wife whose Name is Aphrodita, who can know the Hearts of all
men, and yet all is one, and one only thing, one only Essence, which is common in all Places,
and known every where, every one grasps it with his hands, and uses it in vile matters, and
of small value; he values the vile at a high rate, and that which is high he casts away; it
is nothing else but Water and Fire, out of which the Earth is generated by the help of the
Air, and is yet preserved. Praise be to the most High for his Gifts: At present enough is revealed
what my intent was to shew in this Treatise, and so I depart hence; for in separation all is
to be found.

Of the Medicine or Tincture of Antimony, as well to preserve Mans Body in Health, and to divert
all desperate, and incurable Diseases, as also to cure the Leprosie of Metals, to purifie and
to transmute them into the best Gold.

Written by that Noble and Learned Philosopher, Roger Bacon.

Stibium or Antimony, as the Philosophers say, is composed of a Noble Mineral Sulphur, which
they accounted to be the black secret Lead of the Wise.

The Arabians call it Asmat or Azmat; the Alchymists retain the Name Antimony.

Addition. The Moors call it Antimony, others call it Alabaster, or Tarbason. By the Arabians
and Spaniards it is called Alcohol. Avicennæ c. 7. calls it Artemed. Alexius of Piedmont, in
his seventh Book of Secrets, calls it Talck, even as John Jacob Wecker renders it in his Books
of Secrets; but Talck is far different from Antimony. Pliny, Book 33. Chap. 6. of Antimony.
Dioscorides gives a preparation of Antimony, Book 5. Chap. 39. They call it also Stibi, Stimmi,
&c. The Germans call it Spies glass, or as George Fabricius would rather have it, Spies glantz.
Gerlandius calls it Black Alcophil, Altofel, or Alirnu, others Cosmet, and it is twofold, Masculine
and Feminine.

It will lead us to the consideration of higher Mysteries, if we behold and discern that Nature
wherein Gold is exalted, even as the Magi have found that this Mineral is by God ordained under
the Constellation of Aries, which is the first Celestial Sign, wherein the Sun takes its Exaltation,
though this be not regarded by the Vulgar; yet discreet people will know, and the better observe,
that even in this place also the Mysteries and Perpetuity may in part be considered with great
benefit, and in part discovered.

But some ignorant and indiscreet people think, that when they had Antimony, they would deal
well enough with it by Calcination, others by Sublimation, and some by Reverberation, thereby
to obtain its great Mystery and perfect Medicine. But I tell you, that here in this place it
availes not in the least, either Calcination, Sublimation, or Reverberation, whereby afterwards
a perfect extraction can or might be done or effected with profit, to transmute the meaner
into a better Metallick virtue; for it is impossible for you.

Be not deluded; some of the Philosophers which have wrote of such things, as Geber, Albertus
Magnus, Rasis, Rupecissa, Aristotle, and many others: But observe this: Some say, that if Antimony
be made to a Vitrum or Glass, the bad volatile Sulphur is gone, and the Oil which may be prepared
out of that Glass, will be a very fixt Oil, and will really give an ingress and Medicine of
perfection to the imperfect Metals. Why? Because we have shown that organization
affect our bodies differently, and produce different impressions of the five senses, and yet this
did not trouble the agreement of the sensations or alter our ideas, then the assumption of La-Mennais
would not result in the disorder he suspects.

[107.] Feelings in themselves are nothing more than emotions of the soul, and on the outside,
have nothing on their part but the existence and extension of the bodies, then a new order of
sensations could only be a new order of conditions, which do not alter in all our ideas.

It said so far, is easy to see that the assumption of La-Mennais is already done; because there
are different sensations of the five senses, then you can not strike with such an assumption
order and the nature of our ideas, and the certainty of our knowledge.

From a musical instrument worked in a richly aromatic wood, leave pleasant impressions for hearing,
sight, touch and smell, what you do not destroy or alter the other, if we assume for the same object
is in a new relationship with our organization, resulting in new impressions soul, why is it
impossible that they exist together with those? The melodious sound, "perchance ceases to excite
in our souls a thousand different emotions, that in nature nothing to do with it? not true.
What they fear disorder of our knowledge by the introduction of a new order of sensations? Why
give much importance to an assumption, we can calculate the effects very well, because they
examined background to the current sensory phenomena, we see it already done?

[108.] It is true that we do not know other way to get in contact with external bodies, but by one
of the five senses, but so is that there is such contact, no correlation so mysterious, the soul from external
objects, which are totally inexplicable, attending only to the simple sensations through which communication
is established.

Notice what happens to the magical effects of music. Reflecting on them is found which are
of two types: the purely auditory, and intellectual and moral one stops so to speak in the
eardrum, the other reaches the brain and heart, and that man will organization well adapted
to the one that will not be for that. Two sugetos hear a sonata, both perceive music just material,
but do not experience the same effects intellectual and moral. Both warn of the slightest slip
of the voice, an instrument Compass, both admire the art and skill of the composer, both enjoy
the magic rapture, but while the brain and the heart of one will be out just your ordinary state and
will not receive more than a pleasure material, will have been so exalted above the heart and
another brain: fantasy feel with multiplied strength, budge on its head the thoughts and images,
as if to descend are the magical instrument on his forehead divine inspiration. His heart is deeply
troubled: the sweet tenderness, the deep and gentle melancholy, hatred, love, anger, generosity,
courage, the impetus will be born suddenly in his breast would feel under a magic influence
which moves in spite of himself: the vibrations of a string have risen in his heart that mysterious
storms efforts of reason enough just to master.

[109.] Does this tell us? Tells us that most of the common relations between objects and the
sense organs, there are other more intimate and delicate between them and the system of our
organization, and we made up for the experience with equal certainty that common. In them more variety
among individuals, are more unknown conditions that are necessary for certain purposes, but no
doubt about its existence, and This is sufficient for the sight of sound philosophy dent these
assumptions do not cause which aim to undermine the edifice of our knowledge.

[110.] It is thus shown what has to answer to the following difficulty: 'if give us a new sense
what would happen? "Nothing that would destroy the certainty of our knowledge, or alter the order and
nature of ideas, not another new would happen, but on many ways in which our organization is
affected by objects, there would be one more. We what would happen to a man who was deprived
of smell, and it should give all of a sudden, would have a sensation; us what would happen to a man
whose chest springs suddenly feeling had not previously experienced: it is an affection more. The
new prints are placed in place, and not destroy or alter the other.

BOOK THREE.

THE EXTENSION AND SPACE.

CHAPTER I.

Inseparable EXTENSION OF THE IDEA OF THE BODY.

[1.] Supposing that among the objects of sensations the extension is the only thing for us exists
on the outside, as more than a principle of causality, we closely examine what is the extension.

For
the moment, it seems that the idea of ​​extension is inseparable
from the body.

I at least I fail to conceive what a body unextended. In missing the extension, go away the
parties, everything disappears as it relates to our senses: either there is no object or is
something very different from what caught up in the idea of ​​body. Conceive of an apple: let's
make unextended suddenly, what do you down?

Dispense with by now if Descartes is right when you include the extension of essence of the body,
but I know very well that without the extension can not conceive
of the body.

I do not claim the identity of two things, but the inseparability of two ideas in our understanding.
No This is an opinion but a fact, that inner sense testifies.

It is true that ignoring the extension, you can conceive of a substance, or more generally,
a being, but then there is no idea of ​​the body if we do not want
to be confused with the substance or of being in general.

[2.] All the ideas we have bodies we come to the senses, missing the
extension, missing all other sensations, for without it there is no
touch, no color, no sound, or smell, is therefore reduced to an object
or a thing that we have no idea, we only have one or abstract notion,
for which we can not distinguish from the others: a pure abstraction,
nothing more.

[3.] If you want to undo the difficulties opposed to the separation of the two ideas, extension
and body, would be necessary to determine the essence of the body, and when he knew his essentially
different from the extension, then the difficulty would come loose,
otherwise, not.

[4.] For a deeper understanding of the inseparability of reason, it must be remembered and the
fact recorded above, namely, that the extension is the foundation of all other feelings, being
compared to them a kind of container, substratum, not confused with any, which does not depend
on any particular one, which is a condition for all indispensable.

I have an apple in sight, and I shall examine the relationship that
each have the feeling I produce.

Clearly I can do without the odor without destroying any of the other sensations it emanates. Being
odorless, I still large, colorful, tasty, and even Sound as it is
capable of producing some noise.

Of its own destiny I can do without the taste and even the color, and everything is related
to the eye: for even in this case I find it tangible object, and therefore, extensive, figuratively,
and other properties that affect touch.

If instead of doing without regard to the view I want to dispense with what belongs directly to
touch myself, I can also do it without destroying other sensations: for still be offered to my
eyes the block with its length, shape and color, and may retain qualities
relating to the other senses.

I can still carry beyond abstraction. If the apple to spoil all the qualities that the offer to my senses,
depriving it of flavor, odor, color, light and heat also or cold, of softness or hardness,
and how much can touch it, I still the extension, not sensible, but conceivable. The extension
exists, regardless of their visibility, as there is for the blind regardless of the tangible,
as there is for the naked eye; regardless of smell, taste and sound, as there is for those deprived
of these respects, with that they have or vision or touch.

[5.] Here occurs a difficulty: it seems quite possible that mistake when it says the existence of
the extension abstracting from other sensations, because while making this abstraction we conceive private
feelings, do not lose the imagination but thereof: so, when I remove the block, full color, all
light, it gives me the apple extensive, it is true, but it is because we still imagine the color, or
if I try to deprive her of he remains for me as a black object in
a more or less dark background, other than the apple.

This seems to prove that there is illusion in these abstractions, and that there is no abstraction
complete, as to the reality of them, it happens the imagination of the same, or of others supply
them for the extension is perceived.

This objection is specious, and would be very difficult to dispel satisfactorily, if there of men
deprived of sight does not dissipate in a puff. In effect any such imaginings have a place in
the case of a blind man: for him there is no color, no shadows, no light, no darkness or anything
that relates to the eye, and yet he sees the extension, then the difficulty falter in its base,
falls to the ground.

[6.] But at least we will reply, it is necessary to confess that the
idea of ​​extension is necessary dependency relation with the sensations
of touch: the blind as we have this sense, and he acquired the idea
of ​​extension.

Then the idea is inseparable extension the sensations of touch. Even this result is legitimate. It
is true that by touch comes the idea of ​​extension, that this sense is enough to give it, as
seen in the blind but it is necessary to touch her.

I have shown above that the simple view is sufficient to provide the knowledge of the three dimensions,
which is what which is the volume, or the extension in its full complement. Also, here I can do without
the idea of ​​volume, I just the surface, the surface is inseparable extension of vision. No vision
when no color, or light, in one way or another, and this is impossible, Just imagine, when no
surface.

Another reason. The geometry, conceived without doubt the extension, and yet completely dispense
its relations with the touch and sight: then there is between them and that any connection necessary.

In
any object subjected to the sight, what is the relative quality of touch, necessary to give us an
idea of ​​the extension? Examine it and see any. We have before us a liquid; Do you need fluency?
No: it freezing, there remains the extension. Does cold or heat? No: it saves the extension,
we will go through many degrees of the thermometer, without alteration
visible.

Imagine the quality you want from those relating to touch, and you will notice that the vary, modify,
or remove completely, without altering the extension visible.

We often happens that we have very clear, lively, given the idea of ​​extension of an object without
knowing anything about his qualities on to the touch. I see from far away an object: color
and figure I have the eyes in all its details, but I do not know what material is, if marble
or clay, or wax, or what state of matter, whether soft or hard, wet or dry, hot or cold. I can
even know whether it is tangible, as in the figures which are formed from vapors imperceptible
to the touch simple.

[7.] Without extension no vision or touch, nor can any other sensations. In terms of taste is
not difficult to be convinced of this if you notice, requiring touch, and that failing this, one
can not exist. No shows this truth so clear about smell and sound, because if it is true that we do
not separate these feelings the idea of ​​extension, always wrapping it in a way or another,
however there is still to know what would happen to those who were deprived of every sense except
the ear and smell. But without having to enter guesses such a scenario, just Knowledge: 1.
º What about our organization can not do anything that is not extensive, were it not means
that we are entirely unknown, and give us any idea of ​​what we mean by the body, 2. º What
are received even if the sensations of hearing and smell without accompanying any idea of
​​extension, in which case they would not be for us more than mere phenomena of our spirit, that
we would communicate with the outside world, as we now understand, because if we did not know
who come from other causes would not more awareness of the self, and if we knew, this case
does not offer us but as an agent that influenced us, and in no way as a being that had anything
like to what we understand by body. 3. No. That in this case, we would have no idea of ​​our
own organization, or the universe, it is clear that reduced everything to internal phenomena,
and his relationship with the agents that produjesen, always missing the idea of ​​extension,
or the universe or our body itself would be for us nothing of what
they are now.

What would the world unextended? "Even our own body? 4. No. That for now we simply show reliance
on that according to the current system are all about feelings to the extension, and this
is not destroyed, even if he did not possess more than smell or heard, no idea of ​​the extension
formed, nor the need to experience their feelings. 5. No. That even in this assumption, there
is always standing the settled proposition: that the idea of the extension is independent of the
other sensations. 6. No sign remains also truth as we intended mainly demonstration, to wit:
that for us the idea extension is inseparable from the body.
[8.] This inseparability is as true that theologians to explain the
mystery of August the Eucharist, have distinguished themselves in
the extension of the body, the relationship between the parties yes,
and the relationship with the place: in ordine ad se, et in ordine
ad locum, saying that the sacred body of our Lord Jesus Christ is
in this August Sacrament with the extension in ordine ad se, but lacks
the Chapter in ordine ad locum. This proves that theologians have
been not be possible for man to lose all idea of ​​extension, at the
same time without losing any idea body, and so have excogitating the
ingenious distinction which we have seen, and which I think take care
elsewhere. And therefore it will be time,
after the expiration of twenty days, that you open the window of the third degree, wherein
the external white Colour and Power will by little and little enter in into the inward part,
and the internal red Colour will turn outward by the force of the fire. Keep this degree of
heat ten days without diminution or augmentation of it, you will see a Powder which before
was white, to be now very red, but let not redness trouble you, for 'tis yet unfix'd and volatile.
And after these ten days are ended, thirty days being in all expired, then open the last window
of the last degree of fire, keep it ten days in this degree, this high red pouder will then
begin to flux, let it stand so in flux the ten days, then take it out, you will find at the
bottom a very high, red, transparent stone of a Ruby Colour, flux'd according to the form of
the Glass, as is taught in the Treatise of Vitriol, wherewith you may make projection. Praise
God for such his high Revelation, and thank him for ever, Amen.

Its Multiplication.

The Ancient Wise, having found the Stone, and prepared it to a perfect power, and mutation
of the imperfect Metals into Gold, have a long time enquired whether a thing were not to be
found to augment the power of the Stone; and they found two kinds of Augmentation, one of the
power of it, so that the Stone may be brought much higher; of this multiplication you will
find direction in the Treatise of Gold. The other Augmentation is an augmentation of the quantity
of the Stone, in its former power, so that it receives no more, nor loses any thing of its
power, though it increase in weight, and augment more and more, that out of one Ounce many
Ounces arise and increase.

The Augmentation or Multiplication is done as followeth; Take your Stone in Gods Name, grind
it to a subtile powder, add to it as much of the Mercury of Gold, as is taught before, put
them together into a fine round Vial, seal it hermetically, set it into the fiery Furnace,
proceeding as you have been instructed before, only this time is shorter, for whereas before
you had ten (thirty) days, now you need no more than four (ten) days, otherwise the work is
one and the same. In exercising its functions as convenient,
it needs to be in constant communication with his own body and the around him, taking sensible
intuition of corporate relations, being advised by pain of any disorder that occurs in your body,
and guided by the sense of pleasure, as by an instinct that guided and tempered by reason,
I can tell helpful or necessary. When the soul is not attached to the body, there is no reason to
have any of these diseases need to target not having them in their actions: and as this reason
militaria with respect to all pure spirits, you can guess the cause of the difference that
should exist between the state of our soul in this life, and spiritual beings not attached to any
body.

[242.] This argument, taken from the end of things can not be regarded as a test; has no more
value than a guess, because not knowing how far the soul separated and pure spirits, they may be
in relationships with some bodies, also ignored if these conditions might necessarily be so
sensitive or useful for purposes which are outside our reach. Moreover, assuming that no separate
soul or pure spirits, no they had to do with any body, we could not say with complete security
sensitive conditions that they were useless, on the contrary, as we can achieve, it seems
to strip the soul of his imagination and feelings, is to take two beautiful powers that help them
over their understanding, is a powerful mobile many of their actions.

We have some difficulty to form the idea of ​​pain or pleasure, but
by mediating conditions of feeling.

In the will of the purely intellectual, wanting to conceive or not to want: most simple acts
of relationship, we do not mean pleasant or unpleasant affection. Many times we want a thing
happens, and yet experience great distress in it: and conversely, happens very often that we
feel a pleasure in what you do not want. After wanting and not wanting their own, and while
in this life, do not involve pleasure or displeasure, are independent of these conditions, and
may be in opposition with them.

[243.] It may be noted that this discrepancy comes from the sensitive powers are in disagreement
with the intellectuals, that, albeit very true, is not opposed to it we are saying. Whenever
it is clear that the will of the intellectual order, when in opposition to the sensitive conditions,
it involves pleasure or displeasure destroyed; triumphs is true, in virtue of their free will,
but their triumph is like that of an owner who must to seek compliance with stringent requirements,
experience disgust, at the same time manages the execution of their mandates. Who knows then,
if you will, even after this life, walk accompanied by conditions similar to those which now
feels, rather than purified of the crude to mix them, the body that adds to the soul? There
seems to be no contradiction inherent in it, and if the philosophical issues could be resolved
by feeling, I would guess that this beautiful set of faculties we call heart does not fall
into the pit, but flies with the immortal soul to the regions.

[244.] Concerning to the imagination, that mysterious power, than to represent over the real
world has an inexhaustible fertility create new ones, deploying in the eyes rich and resplendent
soul scenarios, does not appear that a soul could be separated smirch the body. The ineffable harmonies
that we must assume in nature, why could not be perceived in a sensitive manner? Beware of venturing
on arcane propositions unknown to us, but also beware of the draw boundaries to the Almighty,
calling impossible that the sight of a sound philosophy, is in the order of possibility.

CHAPTER XXXII.

POSSIBILITY OF PENETRATION OF THE CORPS.

[245.] The more you meditate on the corporeal world, but the contingency is found in many of
their relations, and therefore the need to resort to a cause greater than been established.
Even the properties that seem more absolute, cease to be when are subjected to the test of reason.
What could be more necessary than the impenetrability? And But from the moment it looks severely,
it is reduced to a fact experience, which is not based on the intimate
nature of the objects, and that therefore can exist or cease to exist,
without contradiction.

[246.] The impenetrability, is that property of bodies, which can not be together in one place.
For all who do not make a pure reality independent space of bodies, this definition means nothing:
for if the place as pure space, is nothing to speak of a spot, with
abstraction of the body, is talking about nothing.

Then impenetrability can not be anything but a certain relationship, or of bodies or of ideas.

[247.] First order to distinguish between the real and the purely ideal. Impenetrability can
be considered two species, physics and geometry. Physics, is what we see in nature; the geometry
is what is in our ideas. Two metal balloons can not be in one place, here is the physical impenetrability.
The ideas of two balloons we offer two extensions that are mutually exclusive in the sensible
representation behold impenetrability geometric. When we imagine that the two balloons will
match perfectly, and there are not two, but one, when we imagine that a balloon occupies part
of another, is a new figure, Either one is considered as a portion of the other, and therefore
is contained in his idea, so is the case in which the child is placed inside the larger. In both
cases considers the interpenetrating balloons in whole or in part, but this penetration is
no more than the designation of certain parts in the one, considered as a pure space, in which
Place the other, also considered as a pure space. No geometric impenetrability exists only
when the two objects are supposed to separate, and only insofar as they are separated; in which
case the impenetrability is absolutely necessary, because the penetration equate to confused to what
is supposed to separate, that is, they affirm the separation and non-separation, which is contradictory. Then
the geometric impenetrability is no evidence in favor of the impenetrability physical, because
that exists in the single case of this budget, ie that the required under penalty of contradictions.
It is clear that the same would be in the reality for if we assume two separate bodies, they can
not empathize while they are separated, without crashing into a manifest contradiction. At this
point, the ideal order teaches us nothing on the real.

[248.] Rapport can exist in reality? A metal globe, for example, could come within a metal
globe, as we enter into one another, two geometric balloons? clear is that it is not the regular
order, which contradicts such assumptions, but the very essence of things. In this case, stated
that there is no contradiction in penetrable bodies do, and that
analysis of this matter shows that the impenetrability bodies has
nothing essential.

We have seen that the idea of ​​place as pure space, is an abstraction, then it is an assumption
entirely imaginary, one in which every body to give a certain extent, to fill some space, so that
I can not but fill, and will not be possible to one while to admit other in one place. The
situation of the bodies, in general, is the set of their relations, the extension of each individual
body is but a set of relations of its parts together, to reach or
to unextended points, or an infinite smallness, he will be approached
by an infinite division.

The set of relations or indivisible beings is what we call infinitesimal extension and space,
and everything is understood in the vast field that offers us the representation sensitive. Who
told us that these relationships are not variables? Is our experience is perhaps limit the
nature of things? Obviously not. The universe has not been traced on our experience, but our experience
has emanated from him, saying there is no nor can it be anything but what it testifies, is to
make our self the kind of universe is to assert that its laws are rooted in us and are emanations
of our being: pride imperceptible atom fool for that which is presented for a few moments in
the vast theater nature and then disappears foolish pride, for that spirit in spite of the grandeur
capacity, feels powerless to evade these laws, to these phenomena,
according the monstrous assumption, should be the work himself.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

A TRIUMPH OF RELIGION IN THE FIELD OF PHILOSOPHY.

[249.] From the analysis I just made in the preceding chapters, is that objects extensive two things:
variety and continuity: the first is absolutely necessary if there be extension: various parties in
this fall, and difference can not be identical without manifest contradiction, continuity posters
displayed in the sensitive, is not essential to extended things, because there is only the
result of a set of relations, inseparable in the current order of sensitivity, but not absolutely
necessary in the order of reality. Transcendental philosophy, rising above the sensible representations,
leaving the phenomena and into the contemplation of things themselves, not discover in any part
the need for such relationships, and is forced to consider them as simple facts that could cease
to be, without any contradiction.

Thus the correspondence is saved phenomenon of reality, and harmonizes the internal with the external
world, but do not move to this all the subjective conditions of that so, than necessary for our representations,
it is also in itself and absolute necessity.

[250.] Having reached this point of transcendental philosophy, the spirit is as set a high peak,
from which to discover new worlds, and grateful to say, and comforting
the experience, between these worlds is discovered a new proof for
the divinity of the Catholic religion, and received a very salutary
lesson for not surrendering to the ravings a senseless philosophy,
which believes contradictions spot wherever you are offered August
shades.

[251.] There is in the Catholic religion a mystery that the Church celebrated with ceremonies
Augustus, and that the Christian worships with faith and love. The unbeliever has been the
holy tabernacle, and smiling with contempt, said: "Here is a monument of superstition, behold
the man loving the absurd. " There still is a work of theology, but philosophically, I could
do without responding to the objections of unbelief, but it seems very timely occasion to Drop difficulties
raised by the superficiality and lightness that I can not help seize it. The genre of the work
forces me to be brief on this topic, but the importance claims that the object does not overlook,
mostly when Catholic authors who have Solid writing philosophy have
also made some clarifications on this matter, in places have thought
more appropriate, and particularly when dealing with the extension.

[252.] The mystery of the Eucharist is a supernatural, incomprehensible to the weak man inexplicable
in human words, that they admit the Catholics, that is recognized by the Church. So it is not
to point out a philosophical reason to clarify this arcane, any faithful will so far dared
to take his vanity: it is only whether the mystery is absurd itself, that is, inherently contradictory,
because if this were, the dogma would not be a truth but a mistake: God's omnipotence did not
extend to the absurd. The question is whether the fact, however to be outside the laws of nature,
is inherently possible, because in that case the question leaves the field of philosophy and enters
the criticism: the unbeliever, if he admits the existence of God,
must accept his omnipotence, and then we should not argue about whether
God can not do this miracle, but only if it has.

[253.] Difficulties may object to the August mystery of the Eucharist reduce to the following:
a body is without the conditions they are subjected to other bodies, does not make any sense
impressions we receive from others, and order, is at the same moment
in many places.

To release these objections dutifully should be fixed ideas.

[254.] The doctrines expounded in the theory of sensitivity in this volume are impressive of
how falsely stated that the mystery of the Eucharist is impossible. Under the sacred species
there is a body that does not affect our senses, here are a miracle, but not an impossibility.
He said that there is no necessary relation between bodies and our sensitivity, the link we are now
experiencing can not be explained by any intrinsic property of the mind and body, so it is
essential to have recourse to a higher cause freely established such relations. The same cause
may suspend, then this point of view, the question is reduced to the following: can the omnipotence
God make us a body not to produce the phenomena of sensitivity, suspended the laws God has
set free? The question presented thus is not susceptible of two solutions:
it is necessary to resolve or confirm or deny the omnipotence.

[255.] Those who intend to convince our absurd dogma must prove the
following.

1.

No. That passive sensibility, is as essential to the bodies, not to be missed without missing
the principle of contradiction.

2. º The relationships of our bodies, with objects, are inherently
immutable.

3. º That the transmission of impressions of the organ to the sensory
faculties of the soul, is also essential and can not fail in any course.

If

you do not give true propositions above, fall all the difficulties merge into the phenomena of sensitivity.
With only miss one of these three propositions, all problems have
solution: it is evident that the phenomena of sensitivity be altered
in three ways:

1. ª The absence of the necessary body to be subjected
to sensitivity.

2. ª The interruption of normal relations between our organs and body.

3. ª The lack of transmission of impressions from the organs to the sensory faculties.

Ie that it is enough that one of the first three propositions is false,
for the unbeliever can not take a step.

[256.] Who undertook the test three propositions, not only could be sure of not achieving its purpose,
but just try, manifestaria has not thought about the phenomena of sensitivity on these matters
and has more philosophy, the notions the vulgar. No need to be philosopher enough to have
acquired a slight philosophical instruction, to know that such an undertaking is complete
ignorance of the history of philosophy. Since I do not need to stress this point because I have
long since aired these issues, the two books that compose the present
volume.

[257.] The above solution could be enough to dispel the difficulty successfully based on the
particular way in which a body is not the extent to which conditions we subjected the others,
because from the moment that the correspondence is suspended of a body with our senses, as these are
the only channel that tells us what passing on the outside, we can not verify that any absurd thing
that we have no experience. To receive the extension, we need to
feel, then we can not say anything concerning the extension of an
object not feel.

But although this response could stop the course of the objections, do not just want to it.

[258.] What is the extension? in reality is a set of relations of men entering in the composition
of extension. These relationships are not inherently necessary, as I said, then God can alter
them. It follows from this that the question is to stop the same point as above: can the divine
power to suspend, or alter, or remove the However, relationships are not required intrinsic need?
is clearly yes. The difficulty therefore is what has been, but what it is: once we are off the field
of philosophy in the field of facts, or is in the examination of the motives of credibility.

[259.]
The other argument, on a body found at the same moment in many places, although apparently stronger,
the fund is reduced to the same as above. Being in a as we understand it now, it is found with the
extension itself, in the ordinary way, and with ordinary relations also with respect to the extension
of other bodies. If is a body with the extension subject to other conditions, without relation
to ordinary the extension of the other, missing the event that we do lies the impossibility of being
a body at the same moment in many places, after having proved that God's omnipotence can alter
or even remove these relationships, there is no contradiction in
him missing that they ought to be. And I do not mean that to happen
in schools distinctions expressed, is always perfectly understood,
the whole truth, the whole philosophical delicacy found on them, or
that they are accompanied by all the analytical examination that they
were susceptible; dispense now the merit of men, and look only at
the bottom of things, but the would involve minor philosophical intelligence
in which employed, the more admirable us that August is religion that
inspires its advocates fruitful thoughts which coming centuries can
be developed.

Reiterate this distillation in the Bath until the Matter hath no more Spirit of the Vinegar
in it, then take it out, set it in a glass-pot, distil all that will distil forth in ashes,
till the Matter become a red Oil, then have you the most noble water of Paradise, to pour upon
all fix'd stones, to perfect the Stone; this is one way. This water of Paradise thus distilled,
the Ancients called their sharp clear Vinegar, for they conceal its name.

My Child, I will now teach you other ways to make the Water of Paradise; this is an easie way,
but not so good, nor doth it that high projection in humane Medicines, yet it cures all Diseases
within and without, but the other cures miraculously in a short time.

The second way of preparing the Water of Paradise. 2. chap. 13).

These words contain several extremely serious, worthy to be examined carefully.

[92.] Is there an intrinsic inability to oppose a different organization than we possess, and therefore,
gender and order to a totally different sensations we experience? It seems not, and if this
impossibility is, man does not know.

Whatever the opinion is adopted regarding the manner in which external objects act on the soul through
the body's organs, not any necessary relation or even analogy between the object and the effect
that we produce.

A body surface receives the rays of the fluid we call light, those reflecting come to stop at the
retina, ie to another surface, which is in communication with the
brain: So far so good, everything is understood, there is a fluid
that moves, ranging from a surface to another, and that can cause
this or that purely physical effect on the brain matter, but What
relationship is there between this and the impression of a completely
different order, called see? the impression that neither is the fluid,
or movement, but an affection that is closely conscious being living,
thinking, self?

If instead the mechanism of light fluid, we assume a completely different, for example the air
that vibrates and is about to hit the eardrum, what is essential reason for not producing a sensation
similar to that of sight?

Must confess that critical reason can not be point to no. Who had no idea of ​​the present organization,
it would seem as incomprehensible one as the other.

[93.] He said hearing and sight, is applicable to the other senses: in all there is a body corporeal,
affected by a body: we see surfaces, or the one presented before the other, or overlapping, we
see movements of this or that class, but how to save the vast distance of these physical phenomena
is the phenomenon of sensation? For my part I find middle: this is a point where human intelligence
is stopped, all appearances indicate no more relationship between these two kinds of phenomena
that set free by the will of the Creator, if there is any necessary connection, this need is
for man a secret. Consider the tissues that receive the impression of objects, the mass that
form the nervous system through the sensation, and see what is the
relationship between physical phenomena of this subject, and an admirable
set of sensible phenomena; not found.

[94.] Upload the difficulty point when one considers that the organs, even preserved without injury
any, cease to produce sensations from the moment they are cut off from the mass brain, or that is
having some disorder, and so that the vision takes place in the cavity the skull, in the midst
of the most complete darkness, and all the wonderful magic of sensations can be presented to our
mind the magnificent spectacle of the universe, reaching deep into our souls the wonders of music
with us in exquisite taste dishes in delicate aromas, all this takes place through the brain matter,
ie a white material, apparently report and rude, and that no one
could suspect that was spent in so noble.

[95.] What reason is there to hit the nerve in communication with the mass, we to experience the
sensation we call seeing, and affected the nerve B, which we call hearing, and so the other
senses? The reason will be, but we do not know, and probably not another that the free will of
the Creator. With this philosophy confesses its weakness, it is true; but would not it also
expresses its scope, seeing a phenomenon to another is immense distance, and can not be among them
but the point of communication established by the same hand of the Almighty? When there are
secondary causes, the merit of philosophy is to bring them; but when they do not exist, this
merit is estimated to rise to the first. A I do not know is sometimes more sublime for human reason,
impotent efforts intemperate pride, the understanding can also be
high understanding their ignorance, because it is high understanding
including higher truths, and sometimes ignorance is also a really
very high.

[96.] It is possible because a new meaning, or at least not in its existence found no impossibility.
If the deaf who have no idea of ​​the sounds, the blind do not know what they are colors, would
proceed very wrong to deny the possibility of feeling that is lacking;
would run no more success with us saying that it is not possible order
of sensations different from what we have.

The Oyl was unknown to the Ancients, for my Grandfather with his Companions found it with great
labour and length of time.

So there are two ways to dissolve the Stone, and to poure upon it the clear water of Paradise.
Our Ancestors called the Oyl their sharp Vinegar; therefore, my Child, keep the Name private,
and I will teach you first of all how you shall join the Mercury to your Stone, which you extracted
out of Saturn, to dissolve it; afterwards I will teach you to bring over the helm that red
Oil which you extracted out of your prepared Saturn, into a fixt stone, to dissolve your stone.

My Child, weigh your fixt stone, take half as much of your Mercury, poure it upon the stone
in the Glass, cover the Glass again with a polish'd Glass which may just fit it, set it in
a Cuple with sifted Ashes, make a small Fire like the Suns heat at Midsummer, and give no more
Fire to it, until the Water of Paradise or Mercury become all a dead Powder. And know, my Child,
that the red or fixt Stone, which before was darkned, when it hath drunk up the Water of Paradise,
or Mercury, or how you will call it, that it be a Powder between black and gray, then augment
the Fire from one degree to another, till the Matter be perfect white, and when it is white,
strengthen the Fire yet more, from one degree to another, till it be of a dark yellow Colour,
then make it yet stronger, till it be of a perfect red; then rejoice, for your Stone is perfect,
and fluxible as Wax. As you are so lofty, and do not remember of these
poor ... Good lottery you have fallen! No, do not deserve you, but I recognize that you good ...
Better luck ...! Sit ... Augustine wants to live with us, and we have no objection to it ... On
the contrary, we are pleased. I do not know if you can accommodate in this narrowness, because
as you get the idea of ​​living in those palaces, this will seem like a cabin. "

Recovering, "said the girlfriend who was very grateful, but can not leave her alone sister, continued
to live at home, without going to Rosalia, as always, help as I could.

"Go

with Augustine, and how quiet it was! This man is all mystery. For you see, I do not would
trust a lot ... Yes, you can be here all day, eat with us, what little there. Then you go you to
your castle, and we will stay in our hut. Surely that bother you ... See what I doing now
with you ... Mom! But Augustine and you, what do not I? Sit ... I sew these sleeves ... Oh,
no, what audacity! Sorry. "

- Yes, yes, come ... Then there was always more ...

Bringas, who had just shaving in his room, left without wiping his glasses on the dining room rosy
face and highly polished.

"Amparo, how are you? I, well.

Ah, bribonaza, what luck you had! ... You owe it to me.

Good things I told you cousin ... I've put parsley leaf, as you suggest.

The truth, I have loved ... This could be entitled The reward of virtue. Is what I say, the merit
is always rewarded.

"

Shortly after this, Bringas and his wife are secreted into the office.

"Augustine is going to have carriage. It has already commissioned
Paris. "

- Ah !...-- exclaimed the lady, spongy, and it seemed to
be sprawling in the soft car of your friends.

- We need to treat
her well. Will pass in all theaters.

- Amparo - Pipaón said shortly
after his protegee -; look, do not get tired at the sight point so
often. Tomorrow or go with me to the shops. Augustine has instructed
me to you make multiple purchases, and you see ... should you give
your mind and choose what you like, since everything is for you.

Take ten times as much of prepared Saturn as I taught you before, by Coagulation and Solution,
till it leave no Fæces behind, then take your precious red Powder out of the Glass, that two
parts be full, set it into your warm Bath, and let it dissolve: when any thing is dissolved,
decant off that which is clear on the top into another Glass, poure other Vinegar upon it,
let it dissolve again as before, decant and poure fresh Vinegar upon it so often, till all
be dissolved into a clear Water, which is done usually in ten or twelve days, then set all
that which is dissolved into a Bath, and a head upon it, distil the Vinegar from it again,
and coagulate the Matter so long till it be dry and shine, then put it into another Glass,
which set upon a Furnace in a Cuple with sifted Ashes, laying a polish'd Glass upon the Mouth
of the Glass. 

In view of what is happening and you are telling, not a few people accuse you of leftover pessimistic
and painting with the darkest colors immorality and vices of the high society to which it
belongs.

What is I am far to see you so bad intention.

And I do not understand it either bad result, although the intention is good.

The truth is, though very sad truth that the noblest and the purest virtues moral excellence, can
not give clear evidence of itself is neither good nor manifest glow, if the vices, sins and evils
are not the occasion or cause for it. Virtue, let us say well, it's like a cocoon that would never
be perfect flower calyx opening, unfolding petals and perfume the air with their aroma, if vice
inadvertently and contradiction not intervene in the matter. Would it have been martyrs if there
had been ruthless and ferocious tyrants who put themselves in the alternative to deny his
God and to worship idols or be devoured by wild beasts, flayed or burned alive or subject to
other exquisite very cruel torture? Without barbarous and uncivilized nations that subjugate
and tame, not despotism to break down, without injustice to punish
and freedoms lossless re-acquire courage and military valor, how lucky
could manifest itself?

I infer from this that all the mischief of Miss Eulalia and its duplicity
and lies were indispensable, for the honor, honesty, candor and innocence
of Ignatius appeared enhancement, as a bright and full of beauty on
the dark background of the picture.

The effort that has the Duchess to seduce Ignacio and elegant and convoluted means of is worth
to get it, I think so well brought as beautifully described, and should not scare people more prudish.
Representation and narration by circumstances are and despite all the truth and vividness
with which paint should not be taken as immoral. The sacred and profane stories are full of similar
cases. Without the wife of Potiphar light had never shone with their own, or have achieved
everlasting glory of chastity Joseph, son of Jacob. If the princess or queen Briolanja not
have done so many crazy and been so outrageous Amadis heart attacks, how he had proved his
fidelity Mrs. Oriana admirable or how he would have made worthy to
carry out the adventure Firm Island, with mirror, North and True Lovers
Guide?

People running around in confusion, censoring of very vicious and about truth, let me how familiar
the word, the scene where the Duchess tries to seduce Ignacio. But how censor such thing, when the
Year Cristiano contains quite a few scenes far more raw? San Vicente Ferrer, for instance,
was rushed twice Very beautiful ladies love him, which brought disappointment and they were
playing tablets, despite the efforts made, and delivered to the very demons, his staff and guides
efforts as wanton and lascivious. And note that these ladies pledged to San Vicente, broke thousand
times more against the holy Ignacio broke against the Duchess. Suffice it to recall that a
San Vicente once when he returned to his cell, was found tucked in
bed at the pretty lady you intended.

With no less depravity was chased San José de Calasanz founder of the Pious Schools with the
aggravating circumstance of deliberate and persistent breach of trust
occurred in the persecutor, daughter of confession of Venerable Servant
of God who came to inquire about the sham and finer scruples of conscience.

St.

Thomas Aquinas, the Angel of the School, had to fight the unholy love less brave and frightening
battles.

One day he was so haunted by a beautiful woman who clung in his arms, which had be rejected and
then pushed to dispel the chase with a lighted stick. Finally, a reward for such an important
victory, two angels came down from heaven and confined themselves to saint's miraculous virginal
girdle of purity, which, though it hurt a lot when girded it, was,
as it were sure to fire up.

You may again take one half out of the Glass, and make projection, setting the other half in
again, as hath been taught, so may you work all your Life-time, for the poor, and perform other
duties to Gods Glory, and Salvation of your Soul, as I have said before; enough to the wise. Almost all women
of ancient times when they are more fiercely despised retaliate.

    
    Why poisons introduced
    If nature had Downs to kill?

What atrocities and heinous crimes do not make the heroine's devotion
to the Cross, the Catholic playwright irritated by us represents a
contempt not real, but imagined!

    Driven by their passion
    Julia decides to commit and
    commit such crimes
    

Will spook the world Admiration of the times Horror at the same sin And terror of hell.

The revenge, then that takes the Duchess making Ignacio see his disgrace, is a trifle, is a bargain
when compared to other thousand vendettas, born of grievances of the sort.

Until that happens after I finished the novel seem even less thought, and written depriesa more
than the rest. It is a pity, because perhaps the best scenes are
at last of the work.

Eulalia cynicism proudly admits his lack moving to punish Ignacio brutally in a fit of anger,
leads to a scene well designed although rough naturalism which further highlights the issue
of environment, the elegant mise en scène in which it occurs.

Finally, could you give many solutions to this mess it seems to me that you give less natural
and believable. If Ignacio not crazy, do you consider that its so easy woman posing as such
and keep you locked in a madhouse? But suppose the above closure feasible. Ignacio you missed
the last limit of extravagance and does not make us fear is really crazy when making the determination
to stay forever in Fools and spend his life there without trying to prove who is sane? Frankly,
I distrust Ignatius was completely crazy but why we hide it no more
you and declares, justifying the good doctor and not by comparing
poorly with Pilate, and Pilate is simply wash their hands and the
doctor was soiled hands and conscience with a horrible lie?

Many will feel that you think, and even more people believe, if it
published this letter, the festive tone is drafted and is detrimental
to discredit the first work of you who have seen the light in a volume.
 The great resource of frank explanation with Knight it seemed
not only more difficult each time, but late, and as such caused to bring about her contempt
before the pardon. What had heard Mrs. Marcelina was reason to go crazy. In his delirium, he thought
that the next day this lady was going to stick out on the streets hawking a paper with the whole
history of Amparo, such as those sold by blind singing with stories of crimes and thefts.

It was daylight when the fell asleep. He slept a few hours, and while his home and arranged
was decided to leave, struck eleven in the morning. Had been intended to go to Costanilla of the
Angels, because if it was not, the suspicions of the Pipaón would be higher ... Would I find
Caballero at home? ... Would I find Doña Marcelina, which was the day before taking wine and cookies?
These thoughts took away the urge to go, but God Almighty!, If would not ... Value, and forwards.

When
he entered the house was like a sleepwalker, because of the inconvenience
and lack of sleep.

Was not aware of what he heard, that his movements were those of an automaton.

"Girl - the lady said -. You are now more serious than a corpse. It appears that you have not
slept all night. So what? ... You found at last the good part of your sister? As there were at home
when Augustine was looking for you, I guess that would have been Larguita last night. "

These phrases could be spoken without malice, but the girl seemed
clever and picaresque.

I tell you truly, you may see the Work, or begin it, but I am certain you shall never accomplish
it, nor see the Stone, God will order it so, it will break, fall, or some one Disaster or other
will happen, that you shall never see the Stone, or accomplish it. Therefore if you find yourself
otherwise, do not begin the work, for I know assuredly, you will lose your Labour; wherefore
deceive not yourself. Enough to the wise.

Its Use in External Diseases. 

CHAPTER XII.

WHAT IS DESCRIBED IN THE AREA.

[77.] We have seen that reason is not based on the opinion of Descartes, which completely confused
space with the body, making the essence of this include the extension thereof, and stating that
wherever we conceive space, there is no body.

But perhaps nearer to the truth who say, that in fact the space is not more than the same extension
of the body; regardless of whether they constitute the essence of them, and also denying its
infinity.

[78.] Examine this opinion. Analyzing the generation of the idea of ​​space is which is nothing
more than the idea of ​​extension in the abstract.

If I have before me an orange, I can get through abstractions to the idea of ​​a pure extension,
equal to that of the orange.

To do this begin to dispense with its color, taste, smell, softness or hardness, and as may
affect my senses. So I have no more than an extended being, which, if you spoil mobility, is
reduced to a portion of space equal to the volume of the orange.

It
is clear that these abstractions I can make over the entire universe:
what will give me the whole idea of ​​space is the universe.

[79.]
Here I am going to drop a difficulty that can be opposed to this explanation
of the idea of space, and I'll take advantage of this opportunity
to clarify some as the origin of the idea infinite space, or is the
imaginary space.

       *       *       *       *       *

God is blessed in his works.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINIS.

