The late government were no parties to the selection of Prince Otho; on the contrary, he was
a person to whose appointment they had objected, as appears on the face of the protocols; and
the objection exists at the present moment, though not to such an extent as it did, a year
and a half having elapsed since it was first made. I object to the arrangement now, because
the interests of this country have been essentially altered in the Mediterranean. His Majesty
has now essential duties to perform in the Adriatic. When I see France remaining in possession
of Algiers, notwithstanding the provisions of the treaty, and when I observe what has been
done by her at Ancona, I must say the interests of this country have been grossly neglected
in that quarter. July 18, 1832

       *       *       *       *       *

The giving the Town-franchise to the Catholics, will lead to the Destruction of the Protestant
Church.

The reason assigned for getting rid of the freemen is, because they would support the Protestant
interest in towns. Now, I have no hesitation whatever in stating, that the interest connected
with the Church and the Protestant institutions of the country must give way it the franchise
is transferred into the hands of the Roman Catholic population. It is easy to say that there
ought to be no difference between Roman Catholics and Protestants. I wish to God it could be
so; but the circumstances of Ireland are such as to render it necessary, that a counterpoise
should be given to counteract the influence which the Roman Catholics will acquire by the bill.
I wish to carry the principles of 1829 into effect, and that can not be done if both parties
are placed upon an equal footing. I think it most unfair to give the Catholic population of
towns the power of returning Roman Catholic Members of Parliament; and I shall, therefore,
seeing that the rights of freemen are to be abolished, object to the 40s. freeholders being
retained.

July 20, 1832

       *       *       *       *       *

The Albocracy.

In this country (India), as in all others, there are certain established qualifications for
justices of the peace and for jurymen, and no disqualification, in any part of the world, is
equal to that of colour. The white man has an influence which the black man has not. This distinction
prevails most in those countries in which a liberal system of Government has been established,
as in the United States of America, and the various states existing in the southern portion
of that continent. Indeed, a term has been invented to designate it in Columbia, in which express
laws have been made for the support and maintenance of the "Albocracy."

August 14, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

Effect of the Savings of the Grey Government.

I give the noble Earl at the head of his Majesty's Government full credit for the diminution
in the expenses of the country which has been effected by the Government, but I cannot help
thinking that such diminutions will prove to be generally detrimental to the country, inasmuch
as they are effected merely for the purpose of meeting a deficiency in the revenue for the
moment. But the fact is, that many of these reductions are applicable to the army, to the navy,
to the militia, and other most essential services of the country, which, although not estimated
for this year, must be provided for at a future period. For instance, one branch of these savings
is that for training the militia; the saving, under this head, is 190,000 l.; but it is quite
clear that this sum must again be expended when the militia shall be trained in future years.
Another saving is that of freight, transport, and provisions of soldiers from one part of the
world to another. Now, it is very true, that during the present year this reduction may be
made, because it does not happen that the change of regiments in the West India colonies and
India takes place; but such will not be the case in another year, and the expenditure of 45,000
l. on that head, which does not appear in these estimates, must again occur.

Another item of reduction is in the purchase of timber for the navy service, which amounts
to the very considerable sum of 400,000 l. It is evident that the magazines of this country
must be kept up, and all that is really done by this apparent saving, is to throw the burden,
to this extent, on future years. With a view to a secure and adequate supply, and to the proper
seasoning of stores, and with a view to the probability that it may become necessary for his
Majesty's service to make some great exertion, it is impossible that less than double the amount
of the estimate of the present year under this head, can permanently suffice. Now, it is impossible
to look upon these savings in any other light than as temporary, and I will go so far as to
say that it would have been a much better principle of economy to spend this money than to
save it, if the distressed state of the finances had not absolutely required the reduction
of the expenditure. But I cannot help taking another view of the subject. It is necessary for
the country, and essential to the character of the Government, that they should look beyond
a mere balance of income and expenditure, with a view to be prepared for unforeseen emergencies
which may arise. Can any body say, that the Government is now left in the situation in which
it ought to be left with respect to finances? This is the last session of the present Parliament.
A reformed Parliament will meet next session, and it is impossible for any man to say what
will be the conduct of that Parliament with respect to finance. But this is not the only ground
on which it is desirable that the finances of the country should be in a more satisfactory state.

I say, my Lords, that I regard these financial difficulties with the greater apprehension,
when I remember that occasions may arise, and are in fact, likely to arise, in which it may
be necessary for his Majesty to call forth all the resources of the country. When I look to
the state of Ireland, when I turn my attention to our foreign relations, and above all, when
I call to mind the present condition of the Peninsula, I find it impossible to shut my eyes
to the alarming truth, that events are on the eve of occurring, which may call forth to the
utmost, every exertion which Englishmen are capable of making, and may demand, as I have said
before, all the resources of the empire.

August 15, 1832.

Policy of the Wellington Administration towards Portugal.

The noble Earl (Grey) has stated, that the late government was the cause of the usurpation
of Don Miguel. Now that is a mistake in point of time; for it will be found that Don Miguel
was brought to Portugal, when the noble Viscount opposite, (Viscount Goderich) was at the head
of the government. It is true that I was in office when Don Miguel landed in Portugal, and
when he usurped the government over which he was placed as Regent. The noble Earl has stated,
that at that time the British army was there, and might have prevented the usurpation. I deny
the fact; the British Army had been withdrawn before the usurpation. It is true that, before
the army was withdrawn, Miguel had dissolved the Chambers, and had given indications that it
was not his intention to carry into effect the constitution of the country; but he had given
no indication of a resolution to usurp the Sovereign power; and that usurpation was occasioned
by a decree of the Cortes, acquired for that purpose. In point of fact the army was withdrawn;
and even if it had not been withdrawn, what was its force? Why it only amounted to 5,000 men,
which would not have been enough to effect anything. I deny therefore, that the government
has been the cause of the usurpation. When Don Miguel did usurp the sovereign authority, the
late government did all they could; they ceased their diplomatic relations with Portugal, and
then brought away the minister from thence.

Then the noble Earl says, that the state of things just mentioned existed when he came into
office; and that the late government was willing to recognize Don Miguel, provided he would
grant a general amnesty. The noble Earl has omitted to state all. It would have been fair,
had the noble Earl stated what had previously occurred. The first thing we did was to advise
a reconciliation between the two branches of the House of Braganza, and we referred the question
to Brazil. The Emperor of Brazil was perfectly ready to go to war if we would make war for
him, but he would not go to war himself, because, in fact he had no resources of his own to
do so. What then became our duty? Our duty was to place Portugal in the society of nations
as soon as we could, and to endeavour to induce Don Miguel to do that which would have the
effect of attaining that object. For that purpose, we called on Don Miguel to reconcile the
country to him, by some act of grace towards those who had been connected with the former government
of the country. But it is not true that we desired to impose any condition with respect to
that act of grace. The principle on which we invariably acted was to make an act of amnesty
be given without any condition whatever, because it was our wish not to interfere in any manner
whatever with the government of Portugal; and it would have been interfering, had we made any
condition which we might have been afterwards called upon to enforce. We would not make ourselves
responsible for that amnesty. We urged him repeatedly to grant it, and if he had done so, he
would most undoubtedly have been recognized; and we fully expected, when that paragraph was
inserted in the King's Speech, that he would have given the amnesty, and have enabled us to
recognize him. I have no hesitation in saying, that I was exceedingly anxious at that time
to recognize this Prince, not because I disputed the claim or right of the other branch of
the House of Braganza, nor because I ventured to decide upon that right, but I wanted to do
that which was done by the government of this country in a similar case with respect to France,--I
wanted to recognize the authority of the king de facto, in order to enable him to carry on
the government of the country with advantage, not only to himself, and his country, but also
to Europe. If I had remained in office much longer, I would have done it in order to remove
from that country, and from Europe, the inconveniences which have resulted from the existing
state of things in Portugal. It was not done before, because the amnesty was not given.

Much has been said about the cruelty of this Prince, and the hatred borne towards him by the
people of Portugal; but I think there has been some extraordinary exaggeration upon that subject.
The noble Earl states that we left things in this state when he left office. It is perfectly
true; but we have, over and over again, pressed upon the noble Earl the necessity of taking
Portugal out of the state in which it was placed, and of recognizing that government, with
a view to prevent that state of affairs which has since come to puss. The Emperor of Brazil
has no power to enter into a war in favor of his daughter, nor can she be put in possession
of Portugal, except by revolutionary means,--namely, by employing bands of adventurers, collected
in various quarters, and paid by God knows whom.

August 15, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Civil War in Portugal fomented by Earl Grey's Government.

I believe if there be any country in the world in which it is both the duty and interest of
England to prevent the existence of hostilities, that country is Portugal. We are bound by
treaties to defend her, as she is, in case of need, to defend England. It is affirmed that
we are under engagements to preserve a strict neutrality towards the two Princes now opposed
to each other in Portugal; but we are bound in honour and good policy to protect that country,
in which his Majesty's subjects have such interests invested, and with which they carry on
such extensive commerce: yet the present government have hazarded all these interests by permitting
this war to be carried on there by a foreign power. The king, in his speech, calls it, indeed,
a "civil war." My Lords, it is a revolutionary war--a war carried on by means furnished in
this town, and for the advance of which the inducement is the hope of plunder. It is carried
on by persons who have no interest in the war excepting plunder. Yet this is the war which
his Majesty has been advised by his servants to call, upon the assembling of his parliament,
"a civil war between the two branches of the house of Braganza in Portugal." The king is made,
by his Ministers, to declare that he is anxiously desirous to put an end to this war. "I shall
not fail to avail myself of any opportunity that may be afforded me to assist in restoring
peace to a country with which the interests of my dominions are so intimately connected." Now,
I know something of war, and I know something of war in that country; and I will tell noble
Lords how they can put an end to it at once. Let them put forth a proclamation recalling his
Majesty's subjects from the service of both parties engaged in the contest,--let them, at the
same time, carry into execution the law of the country; let them, when the commissioners of
the customs, in the execution of their exclusive duty, seize vessels carrying out troops, ammunition
and officers, who, I am able to prove, are at this moment serving in those armies, leave the
adjudication of such seizures to the proper tribunals; and let not the King's ministers interfere,
and let them employ the British fleet in the Levant, and other places, to which the attention
of his Majesty's government ought to be directed, instead of being employed in watching the
shores of the Douro and the Tagus--let them do all this, and they will soon find that peace
will be restored to Portugal without any further sacrifice. But I am sorry to say these are
not the measures adopted by his Majesty's government, nor is the law carried into execution
by that government. My Lords, I engage to prove, that though the commissioners of the customs
did, in the autumn of 1831, detain certain vessels in the Thames, having on board the very
troops, ammunition, and arms which have been since employed in this war; and although these
commissioners are, by the act of parliament, the persons appointed to carry it into execution,--they
were ordered, by a superior power, not to interfere.

February 5, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

Don Miguel de facto King of Portugal.

Don Miguel having been appointed Sovereign by the Cortes, it was not the business of the British
government to offer any opposition to their choice; and as long as we continued in office,
we were seeking for the means of recognizing Don Miguel as Sovereign, de facto, of Portugal.
In point of fact, I have no doubt, if we had remained in office a fortnight longer, we should
have effected that recognition; for it was never intended to make the proposed amnesty an indispensable
condition of that step. Our object in recognizing him, was to prevent those disasters which
I apprehended must arise from the conflict of extreme opinions in the Peninsula.

February 5, 1833.

The Catholic Oath is a Principle.

His Majesty has sworn to maintain the established Church of England in Ireland; and secondly,
that in the very last arrangements made to remove the disabilities, as well of the Dissenters
from the church of England as of the Roman Catholics of Ireland, words were inserted in the
oaths to be taken by them, for the security of the Protestant establishment. I consider those
oaths as principles; and that we ought not to run counter to them in any manner whatever.

February 5, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Protestants of Ireland are the friends of order in Ireland, and they are the natural friends
and connections of England. I entreat you never to lose sight of this important truth.

February 5, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Game Laws increase Poaching.

Since the passing of the Game Act, poaching has enormously increased. It is consistent with
my own knowledge, also, that as regards my own estate, until this law passed, there was little
or no poaching upon it, but that evil has greatly increased since that period. In fact, not
long since, I lost a servant in an affray with poachers, and I at once determined to give up
preserving game; but I was induced to relinquish my intention in consequence of learning that
the keeper, whom I was about to discharge, could not get employment in any other part of the
country. This, alone, is the reason why I still preserve my game. I am thoroughly convinced
that, in the neighbourhood in which I reside, poaching has increased threefold since the passing
of the present Act. I think that result is entirely owing to the circumstance that the person
who is in possession of the game is entitled to carry it away and sell it, and cannot be questioned
as to the manner in which it came into his possession.

May 31, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

Importance of Portugal to England.

If there be any nation in the world for which more than another this country feels--and justly
feels--an interest, it is Portugal. The alliance between this country and Portugal is among
the most ancient to be found in the history of nations; it is an alliance repeatedly recognised
by all Europe; it is one from which this country has derived advantage almost from a period
beyond memory; and for the preservation of which, in better times than these, and in order
to rescue that country out of the hands of her enemies, she has expended her best blood and
treasure.

June 3, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Emancipation Act of 1833 a Premature Measure.

In the discussions on the abolition of the slave trade, it was more than once declared by the
advocates of that measure, that they had no intention of following it up by an attempt at the
abolition of slavery; but, on the contrary, those who contended most strenuously for the abolition
of the slave trade, declared that it was not intended that it should be followed up by the
abolition of slavery in the colonies, but that their intention was, by means of the abolition
of the slave trade, to ameliorate the condition of the slaves, and improve the state of society
in the colonies. But I will not believe, from all that I have heard and read, that even the
most earnest advocates of the abolition of the slave trade intended, immediately, to follow
up the amelioration of the condition of the slave, by the total abolition of slavery. That
men should look forward to the abolition of slavery in the colonies as consequent on the improvement
in the state of society, and the state of slavery, is probable; and there is no doubt that
a great improvement has resulted from the abolition of the slave trade, coupled with the measure,
but that the one step should be considered as an immediate consequence of the other, I altogether
deny; and I appeal with confidence to the discussions which formerly took place.

       *       *       *       *       *

In all countries, where it is proposed to make large bodies of slaves free, the first thing
that is described as necessary to be considered is, whether the country is in a condition to
bear the change; the second, whether the slave whom it is proposed to constitute a freeman,
will work for hire? These are points with respect to which it has always been considered necessary
to have full and convincing proof before emancipation should be granted. The noble Earl tells
us that, in this instance, there is no proof to the contrary. I think that there is proof to
the contrary. We have heard of the adoption of a measure of this nature within the province
of Colombia. But supposing it to be true, that 100,000 liberated negroes have shewn a disposition
to labour, or have actually laboured for hire in Colombia, still I contend that that circumstance
affords no proof whatever that the same results would follow from the liberation 700,000 or
800,000 negroes in the British possessions. But I by no means concur with the noble Earl as
to the sufficiency of the case of Colombia, as a case in point. I have the authority of a very
intelligent person, who was resident in Colombia at the time that the transaction took place,
and who, in writing upon the subject, states positively that the experiment was a most dangerous
one; and that although the liberated negroes laboured for awhile, yet that a few years afterwards,
they could not be got to work at all. This is further proved by the fact, that in the course
of four or five years it was found necessary to introduce a measure for the promotion of agriculture,
which measure, it was admitted, was called for, in consequence of the great difficulty that
was found in getting the free negroes to work.

June 23, 1833.

Difficulty of preventing free labour in the Colonies anticipated.

Look at our own colonies in tropical climates, and see whether you can find any disposition
in the free negro to work in the low grounds. If you look at Surinam, or any other of the tropical
climates, where free negroes are to be found, you will find a total absence of any disposition,
on their part, to work for hire, or for any other consideration whatever. But says the noble
Earl, "the negroes work in Africa;" of that fact, begging the noble Earl's pardon, I do not
think he can produce any proof; but even supposing that he could, I contend that the fact does
not bear upon this question--the question here is not whether the negro, in a state of freedom,
will work in Africa, but whether, being made free, he will voluntarily labour in the low grounds
in our possessions within the tropics? I say, that there is no proof of such labour on the
part of negroes, in any part of the world. In one quarter of the globe, in which I have some
knowledge, I am certainly aware that men do labour very hard for hire in low grounds within
the tropics; but those men are in a condition but little removed from absolute slavery, because
they are the lowest in a state of society, which from them upwards is divided into the strictest
castes. But in our West India possessions the case is very different; there, this difficulty
from the moment of their first discovery, to the present hour, has always existed; a difficulty
arising from the circumstance, that in those tropical climates, a man instead of working for
hire, works only for food,--and having obtained that food, which he can procure by very little
exertion, he thinks of nothing save the luxury of reposing in listless idleness beneath the
shade. That is the great difficulty which surrounds this question.

June 25, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

Depressing the West India Colonies will lead to the Introduction of Foreign Slave Grown Sugar.

Supposing that the growth of the sugar should, from the causes I have mentioned, fail in the
West Indies, where are we to get sugar? We must get it no doubt from the colonies of other
countries, where it is produced by the labour of slaves. What then, will those who are so anxious
for the abolition of slavery say, if, in consequence of this measure, the slave trade should
be revived, with all the added horrors of its being carried on in a contraband manner; and
if, instead of decreasing the amount of slavery in the world, we should increase it, in Cuba,
and in the other foreign West India possessions, over which we have no control, and into which
it would be impossible for us to introduce any measure, regulating or ameliorating the condition
of the slave.

At this moment we consume more of sugar, even excluding Ireland, than all the rest of Europe
put together; and I leave it to your Lordships to consider whether it would be possible, under
any circumstances whatever, that this country could go on without a supply of that article.
How can that supply be furnished, supposing that the production in our colonies should fail,
except by the produce of slave labour from the colonies of other countries?

June 25, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

East India Company; Eulogium on its Administration.

Having been so long a servant of the East India Company, whose interests you are discussing,
having served for so many years of my life in that country, having had such opportunities of
personally watching the operation of the government of that country, and having had reason
to believe, both from what I saw at that time, and from what I have seen since, that the Government
of India was at that time, one of the best and most purely administered governments that ever
existed, and one which has provided most effectually for the happiness of the people over which
it is placed, it is impossible that I should be present when a question of this description
is discussed, without asking your Lordships' attention for a very short time whilst I deliver
my opinion upon the plan which his Majesty's ministers have brought forward. I will not follow
the noble Marquis who opened the debate, into the consideration of whether a chartered company
be the best, or not, calculated to carry on the government or the trade of an empire like India,
that is not the question to which I wish now to apply myself. But whenever I hear of such discussions
as this, I recall to my memory what I have seen in that country--I recall to my memory the
history of that country for the last fifty or sixty years. I remember its days of misfortune,
and its days of glory, and call to mind the situation in which it now stands. I remember that
the government have conducted the affairs of--I will not pretend to say how many millions of
people,--they have been calculated at 70,000,000, 80,000,000, 90,000,000, and 100,000,000--but
certainly of an immense population, a population returning an annual revenue of 20,000,000
l. sterling, and that notwithstanding all the wars in which the empire has been engaged its
debt at this moment amounts only to 40,000,000 l., being no more than the amount of two years
revenue. I do not say that such a debt is desirable; but at the same time I contend that it
is a delusion on the people of this country to tell them that that is a body unfit for government,
and unfit for trade, which has administered the affairs of India with so much success for so
many years, and which is at length to be put down,--for I can use no other term,--upon the
ground that it is an institution calculated for the purposes neither of government nor trade.

My Lords, there is a great difference between the East India Company governing India, and carrying
on their trade with China as a joint-stock company, and carrying on the same trade as monopolists.
It was my opinion, and the opinion of those who acted with me, that we ought, in the first
instance, at all events, to have endeavoured to have prevailed upon them to continue trading
with China as a joint-stock company. If at this moment, they had chosen to have continued to
trade as a joint stock company, I would have allowed them; I would have adopted measures for
the purpose of inducing them to do so, and to carry on the government of India. It is perfectly
true, my Lords, that the people of this country were, and are, desirous of participating in
the trade to China; but I am not aware that they ever expressed a desire to see the company
deprived of any branch of that trade. But then, my Lords, the noble Lord asks, "how would you
secure to them their dividends?" Why, my Lords, their dividends, supposing the trade had turned
out so ill as the noble Lord expects it would have done, would have been secured to them, as
they must be at present, by saving all unnecessary expense in India--those dividends would
have been secured to them, as they still will be, and as under all circumstances they must
be, by bringing down the whole expences of the Government of the country. But we had another
resource--we might have relieved the East India Company, trading to China no longer as a monopolist,
but as a joint stock company, from a part of the burden of the provisions of the Commutation
Act. I cannot help thinking, if that course had been adopted--or even supposing, according
to the calculations of my noble Friend behind me, we had been obliged to abandon that course,
by desiring the East India Company to withdraw from trading with China--that they still would
have been in possession of their capital, which might have been disposed of for their advantage,
and they might have been continued in the Government of India. I entreat your Lordships to
observe, that such an arrangement would have been attended with this advantage, that they would
not have had to draw their dividends from India. One of the greatest inconveniences attending
this arrangement is, in my opinion, the increased sum which must be annually brought home by
remittance to this country from India, to such an amount that the inconvenience is very great,
so great, that I very much doubt whether the process can be carried on; and it must be most
prejudicial to the commerce of the country.

June 5, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reform un fait accompli.

Now that the Reform Bill has become the law of the land, I have considered it my duty not only
to submit to it, but to endeavour to carry its provisions into execution by every means in
my power.

July 19, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

Repudiation of the Holy Alliance.

I have passed part of my life in the foreign service of my country; but I most sincerely protest,
that I never did join with any holy alliance against the liberties of Europe.

July 19, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

Expediency and Principle.

If the world were governed by principles, nothing would be more easy than to conduct even the
greatest affairs; but, in all circumstances, the duty of a wise man is to choose the lesser
of any two difficulties which beset him.

July 19, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

Protestantism to be supported.

It is our duty, in every case, to do all we can to promote the Protestant religion. It is our
duty to do so, not only on account of the political relations between the religion of the Church
of England and the Government, but because we believe it to be the purest doctrine, and the
best system of religion, that can be offered to a people.

July 19, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

Importance of preserving the authority of the East India Company.

The noble Lord who spoke last, quoted the opinion of Sir John Malcolm. My Lords, I wish the
noble Lords opposite had taken the advice of Sir John Malcolm, upon the subject of forming
an independent body in London, representing the interests, and carrying on the concerns, of
India. My Lords, it is persons of this description who interpose an efficient check upon the
Government. I say, therefore, that it is much to be lamented, that instead of placing that
body in the state of independence in which they were heretofore placed, they are to be reduced
to a situation in which they will lose a very considerable portion of their power and influence.
It is of the utmost importance that the greatest possible care should be taken to preserve
the authority of the company in relation to their servants. Depend upon it, my Lords, that
on the basis of their authority depends the good government of India.

July 5, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

After Emancipation, the Protestants of Ireland ought to have been conciliated.

The noble and learned Lord (Plunkett) said, that many of the evils that afflicted Ireland,
and for which the Church Temporalities Bill was intended as a remedy, were occasioned by the
delay of the measure of Emancipation, after the year 1825. Why, I ask, by its delay after the
year 1825? I beg to know from that noble and learned Lord how long the system of agitation
existed in Ireland both before and after the year 1825? Why, my Lords, it has existed ever
since the commencement of the discussion of the Roman Catholic Question--that is to say, ever
since the days of the restrictive regency. From that period to the present moment, there has
been nothing but agitation, except during parts of the years 1829 and 1830. Agitation commenced
in Ireland upon the conclusion of events in Paris, and in Brussels. Those events occasioned
such agitations and discussions as obliged the noble Duke, who was then at the head of the
Government in Ireland, to carry into execution the Proclamation Act. Then came a change in
the administration, and the noble Earl assumed the reigns of power. He immediately chose for
the Lord Lieutenant (Lord Wellesley) a nobleman for whom I entertain great respect but who
certainly was nearly the last person who ought to have been selected for that office. After
the Roman Catholic Question was settled, what ought the government to have done? Most certainly
they ought to have done everything in their power to conciliate--whom? The Protestants of Ireland.
Everything had already been granted to the Roman Catholics which they could possibly require;
and the object of the government ought to have been to conciliate the Protestants. But, instead
of that, the noble Earl sends over to that country, as Lord Lieutenant, the noble Marquis,
who was the very last person that ought to have been appointed; because, when holding that
situation previously, and on receiving information that his Majesty's government entertained
views favourable to the emancipation of the Catholics, he did, immediately, before his departure
for Ireland, issue a sort of proclamation to the people that agitation should be continued
for the purpose of obtaining the desired boon.

July 19, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

Irish Agitation Characterized.

Now, my Lords, in order to enable your Lordships to understand what this "agitation" is, I
beg leave just to describe it to your Lordships. It is, first of all, founded upon a conspiracy
of priests and demagogues to obtain their purpose--whether justifiable or not, is not the question--by
force and menace, and by the use of terror and of mobs, wherever that terror and those mobs
can be used to produce an effect upon his Majesty's Government favourable to their views. This
agitation they have maintained by orations, harangues, and seditious speeches at public meetings--by
publications through a licentious press--by exaggerations--by forgeries--and by all other means
which it is in the power of that description of persons to use, in order to excite the multitude;
and then, when they are excited, to make them appear in large bodies to terrify and over-awe
the people. If, my Lords, any person ventures to oppose himself to these proceedings, he is
either immediately murdered or his house is destroyed, his cattle or other property carried
off, and combinations are formed to prevent resistance, or the discovery of the guilty. In
short, all measures are adopted which go to, and which are intended to, destroy the Constitution
of this country. This, my Lords, is what is called the system of "agitation."

July 19, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

What constitutes a Blockade.

To constitute an effective blockade, it is unnecessary to say that the port in question must
be actually blockaded; and, further, that notice must have been given of such a blockade. No
capture could be made without previously warning off vessels. There are various modes of notice;
but the most authoritative manner of giving notice is through the Government of the power to
be so warned. It should never be forgotten, however, that there should be certain means in
existence to enforce the blockade at the time of notice.

July 19, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

Objection to the reduction of the Number of Irish Bishops.

I object to the proposed reduction of the number of Bishops in Ireland, and I totally dissent
from the argument upon which the propriety or expediency of that reduction is founded. I am
willing to admit that if we were now, for the first time, establishing the Protestant Church
in Ireland. I might be inclined to think that twenty-two Bishops were more than was necessary
to the supervision of some 1000 clergymen; but when I take into account, besides the fact that
the higher number has been in existence for centuries--when I consider the importance of the
Protestant Church in Ireland in relation to the political ties of the two countries--when I
consider, as a Right Reverend Prelate has remarked in the course of the debate, that wherever
a Protestant Bishop is removed, there a Catholic Prelate will remain, who, doubtless, will
possess himself of the palace, and perhaps the church property, of the reduced Protestant See;
and when, above all, I consider the peculiar circumstances of Ireland, so different from those
of this country, and which may make the episcopal superintendence of thirty or forty benefices
in the former country a matter of more trouble and anxiety than the 600 or 1000 benefices which
an English Prelate may control, I cannot but object to the proposed reduction. Besides, there
is another circumstance which is worthy of attention in the discussion of this subject, and
that is, that the Bishops of England have the assistance of their Deans and Archdeacons, which
their Irish brethren have not. The twenty-two Bishops of Ireland have personally to perform
all the duties which the Bishops of this country perform through their Deans and Archdeacons.

July 19,1835

       *       *       *       *       *

The Jews' Right to Citizenship denied.

The noble and learned Lord (Brougham), and the most reverend Prelate (Whately), have both stated
that they cannot understand the distinct principle upon which the opponents of this measure
rest their opposition to the admission of the Jews to seats in the legislature. Now I beg the
noble and learned Lord, and the most reverend Prelate, to recollect that this is a Christian
country and a Christian legislature, and that the effect of this measure would be to remove
that peculiar character. Your Lordships have been called upon to follow the example of foreign
countries, with respect to the Jews; but I think that, before we proceed to legislate on such
a subject as this, it is indispensable that the necessity for the introduction of the measure
should be shown. I ask, what case has been made out to shew a necessity for passing this measure?
When your Lordships passed the bills for the removal of the Roman Catholic disabilities, and
for the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts, the reason assigned was, that it was unnecessary
to keep up the restriction on the classes of Christians affected by those acts. But there is
a material difference between the cases of the dissenters and Roman Catholics, and the Jews--the
former enjoyed all the benefits and advantages of the constitution before the restrictions
were imposed. Was that the case with the Jews? Were the Jews ever in the enjoyment of the blessings
of the English constitution? Certainly not. The Jews were formerly considered as alien enemies,
and they were not allowed to live in this country,--I think from the time of Edward I. to the
period of the Commonwealth. It cannot, therefore, be said that the question of the Jews can
be put on the same ground as the claims of any class of Christians in the country.

August 1,1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Jews have no Right to Civil Equality.

The noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack (Lord Brougham) has referred to a certain Act of
Parliament which passed, giving certain privileges to the Jews, and which he said, was in the
very form of words proposed in this bill. It is true that this Act conferred benefits on the
Jews, but then it must be recollected that it was confined in its operation to certain of the
colonies; in the first instance to Canada, and subsequently to Jamaica and Barbadoes, and others
of the West Indian colonies. But then, was there not a very good reason for this? European
inhabitants were much required in the colonies at the time the act passed; and this was to
give encouragement to the Jews to go thither and settle. No such necessity exists now, with
regard to this country,--we do not wish Jews to come and settle here. Not one word has been
said to shew that any necessity exists for passing this measure. The noble Lord, who addressed
your Lordships early in the debate, adverted to the state of the Jews in France, I entirely
agree with the illustrious Duke near me, and the right reverend Prelate, that this country
is not bound to follow the example of foreign nations in legislating for any portion of the
community. But it ought not to escape attention, that Buonaparte, in legislating for the Jews,
did not go the full length of this bill; and before he did anything for them, he ordered a
strict inquiry into their case to be made. I ask, are your Lordships prepared to assent to
this bill, without any inquiry being instituted as to its necessity, or without any reason
being assigned? This bill is not the result of inquiry, but it has been introduced on a very
different principle,--namely, because it suits the liberal opinions of the day.

The noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, has endeavoured to shew that, by retaining the
words--"upon the true faith of a Christian," in the Statute Book, you encourage men who have
no regard to the obligation of an oath, and thus maintain hypocrisy, while it operates as a
restriction on conscientious persons. "You admit," says the noble and learned Lord, "men like
Mr. Wilkes, Lord Shaftesbury, or Lord Bolingbroke, but you shut out conscientious men who will
not take the oath." I am prepared to allow that there are some men whom no oath or affirmation
can reach; but this is no reason why we should give up every test and oath. Are we on this
account to throw aside every guard for the maintenance of Christianity in the country? The
Right Reverend Prelate has stated very clearly and plainly the reason why we should not pass
this bill--namely, that this is a Christian country, and has a Christian legislature, and that
therefore, the Parliament, composed as it is, of Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons,
cannot advise the Sovereign, as the head of the Church, to sanction a law which will remove
the peculiar character of the legislature, I say that we cannot advise the Sovereign on the
throne to pass a law which will admit persons to all offices, and into the Parliament of the
country, who, however respectable they may be, still are not Christians, and therefore ought
not to be allowed to legislate for a Christian Church. The noble Marquis, for whom I entertain
the highest respect, seemed surprised that I should smile when the noble Marquis spoke in somewhat
extravagant terms of the distinctions which have been acquired by these persons in foreign
countries. I must apologize to the noble Marquis for having smiled at that moment, but it certainly
appeared to me that the noble Marquis was rather extravagant in his praise; and, I may be allowed
to add, that I have never been so fortunate as to hear of those persons being in the stations
which he described. The noble marquis stated that there were no less than fifteen officers
of the Jewish religion at the battle of Waterloo; I have not the least doubt that there are
many officers of that religion of great merit and distinction--but still I must again repeat
they are not Christians; and, therefore, sitting as I do in a Christian legislature, I cannot
advise the sovereign on the throne to sanction a law to admit them to seats in this house and
the other house of parliament, and to all the rights and privileges enjoyed by Christians.
The noble and learned lord on the woolsack said, that when the observation is mode that Christianity
is part and parcel of the law of the land, it is meant that that Christianity is the Church
of England. Now, I have always understood that it was the Christian dispensation, generally;
and I believe that when Christianity is talked of as part and parcel of the law, it means the
Christian dispensation, and not the doctrines of the Church of England.

August 1, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

Defence of a Metallic Currency.

I always have maintained, and I always shall maintain, that the only proper basis of our money
system is a solid gold circulation. Upon that basis I considered our monetary system fixed
since the measure of 1819, followed up as that was by improvements in 1826: I really think
the principle of those measures the best that can be applied to our circulation. Detailed payments
being made in gold, the larger payments might be made in paper, and depend on credit; the true
support of the credit of whatever paper might be in circulation being, that it was liable to
be paid in gold on demand at any time, at the bank of England, or at the branch-banks of the
bank of England; so that, if any man chose not to give credit to the bank of England, he had
only to demand gold for his paper; or any creditor might, at once, demand from his debtor payment
in solid coin. That however will, to a certain extent, not be the case under this bill. I am
aware that, eventually, the holder of the paper can repair to the bank of England and demand
gold as heretofore; and must, therefore give credit to somebody for the amount. That I consider
a depreciation of the paper of the bank of England. It is a depreciation to which if I had
been a bank director, I would never have consented; indeed, I cannot understand why the bank
agreed to this proposition. I am persuaded that, ere long, great inconveniences will occur
from the provision; and those inconveniences will be felt in a depreciation of bank paper.
What is the object of the arrangement? It is either intended to give the bank a power of issuing
paper which, under the existing system, it does not possess, or to facilitate credit generally
throughout the country, and enable the country banks to undertake operations which they could
not otherwise attempt. It is evident that the noble earl himself sees that the consequence
will be to facilitate and increase the issues of the country banks. That will augment all transactions;
and the result must be a great increase of prices, and the ruin of many individuals. Nothing
of this kind would happen, if the present system were continued; namely, if the bank of England
continued to issue the number of its notes which the necessity of the public might seem to
require; and by the regularity of its proceedings give such a check to the issues of the country
banks, as should be calculated to establish a sound and healthy circulation. Under the existing
system, the bank would proceed so as to prevent the country banks from giving credit, except
in cases which justified the accommodation, and the circulation and commerce of the country
would continue in a wholesome state.

August 23, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Duke of Wellington's reasons for supporting the Poor Law Amendment Bill.

I concur with the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, and with the noble lord opposite,
as to the necessity of this measure. I agree, first of all, in the existence of grievances
consequent upon the existing administration of the poor-laws, but I do not concur in the opinion
expressed by the noble and learned lord (the Lord Chancellor) in disapproving of the provisions
of the statute of Elizabeth; but I do disapprove of a system of administration which differs
in each and every of the 12,000 parishes in this country, and in each of which different and
varied abuses have crept in. I maintain that it is impossible for parliament to frame any law
that can by possibility remedy or apply to the abuses which prevail at the present moment--abuses
which are as varied in their character as they are numerous. It is their general existence
all over the country--it is their existence in a different shape in every parish of the kingdom--which
renders the appointment of a central board absolutely necessary, with powers to control the
whole of the parishes in the land, and to adopt such remedies as will secure a sure administration
of these laws throughout the country. If my noble friend, who has spoken in opposition to this
measure, had recently attended to parliamentary business more assiduously than he has done,
he would have found that the subject has been submitted to the house by several noble lords,
and has also been under the consideration of every administration that I have known; but no
plan has ever been suggested, or scheme proposed, to remove and remedy the evils of the existing
laws, which in my judgment at all equalled the present, and for it I must return the noble
lord opposite, with whom it has originated, my sincere thanks. The present remedy for the evils
of the existing laws is most unquestionably the best that has ever been devised; at the same
time I must observe, that as the central board of commissioners must necessarily have very
extraordinary and full powers, it will be necessary that they should keep such a record of
their proceedings as shall render them liable to the actual control at all times of the government
and parliament of the country. I doubt much whether the provisions of this bill give such a
controul to the government as will afford a full knowledge to the parliament at all times of
the course pursued by the commissioners; but in committee on the bill, I shall consider whether
some alteration is not necessary, in order to make that control more active. There are several
other clauses in the bill which require much alteration and modification. I entirely approve
of the removal of the allowance system, which is one of the greatest evils arising from the
existing poor-laws; but I am of opinion that it ought gradually and slowly to have been destroyed,
and without a fixed day for its termination being specified in the bill. I would recommend
that this clause should be left out, and that power should be given to the commissioners to
carry gradually such alterations in this respect into effect, as to them may seem meet.

July 81,1834.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tests no Security to Religion.

The noble duke, amongst other matters, has adverted to the union between church and state,
with respect to which he has made some observations which are undoubtedly worthy of consideration,
but to which I do not intend, on this occasion, to offer any answer. I will, however, just
observe, that I apprehend what is generally meant by dissevering the union of the church and
state is, that there should be no established religion. To that proposition, I trust it is
superfluous for me to say that I am a most decided opponent. It is, however, a subject which
I cannot now pretend to discuss. It is my opinion, that to leave religion to rest upon the
voluntary efforts of the people, is a notion which we are not at present in a situation competent
to entertain. It is so very great a change, and so totally different from all that we know
and observe, that we are absolutely precluded, from want of experience, from entering upon
the consideration of the question. It is not a just criterion, by which to form a judgment,
to refer to the experience of other nations--such as the existence of Christianity in Rome
before it became the established religion of the empire, or the existence of religion in a
country so distant and so unlike our own, in all its circumstances, as the United states of
North America. That, my lords, is the opinion I entertain, and therefore I will no longer occupy
your lordships by any further discussion on this subject. I belong to the church of England,
and am a friend of that church, from feeling and from conviction. I do not say that I have
examined all her doctrines, or that I am master of all the grounds upon which her rites and
ceremonies stand--I do not say that I am able to discuss with my noble friend those one thousand
questions, which Bishop Law said arose out of the thirty-nine articles, but I believe her doctrines
to be scriptural, and I know her principles to be tolerant. But, my lords, I beg leave to say,
that I adopt those doctrines upon another ground, which perhaps may expose me, with some in
the present day, to censure. My lords, I espouse those doctrines because they are the mode
of faith delivered down to me by my forefathers; and because they are the mode of faith which
I find established in my country. I am not prepared to remove the basis upon which is founded
(though it may be apart from) the structure of the religion of my country. I do not think that
such is the wish of the majority of the dissenters; but, at all events, it seems to me a course
calculated to lead only to a state of general scepticism and universal suspension of religion
among the people. But while I say this for myself--while I claim to found my attachment to
my religion upon principle, it is necessary that I should say precisely the same thing for
that great body of men who may be called the dissenters of England. Their consent is rarely
contemporaneous with the establishment of the church of England herself. The dissenters from
the church of England are those who thought that the Reformation did not proceed far enough.
Their dissent did not show itself against the established church when in power and prosperity;
but the dissenters from that church grew up first when the Roman Catholic religion was dominant
in this country, and when both the members of the new church of England and the dissenters
were alike suffering under persecution; therefore, it is a dissent founded on principle. Considering
the weight which dissent has in this country, and considering the extent to which it prevails,
many attempts have been, from time to time, made, as we all know, at a religious comprehension
of all denominations of Christians in the body of the church. Such attempts have been made
by some of the greatest prelates that the church has ever known. These attempts have all failed;
but, surely in our days, it may be thought wise to attempt at least a general civil comprehension
of all classes, by admitting them, if it be possible to do so, to those benefits which are
to be derived from the public institutions of the country.

I will not go into the foundations of the universities. I am not for raising any quibble on
that subject. I apprehend that they have grown up, as all other institutions have done, very
much from a series of accidents, and the force of chances. One college has been founded by
one individual, and one by another; but, however they have grown up, they have, in fact, become,
and are now considered, as the national seminaries of education. I would reserve to them, in
every respect, their corporate rights. I would respect them as places where the religion of
the country is taught, and professed; but undoubtedly I would if possible, for the sake of
general peace and union, and for the sake of bringing together those who are now divided, try,
with the sanction and approbation of the universities themselves (and we know perfectly well
that most of their distinguished members are of opinion that this can be done); I would, I
say, try whether we could not open the gates of these universities to that great body of this
country, who unfortunately dissent from the doctrines of the church of England. I would not
do so, however, rashly, nor with any violence to honest prejudices, or to those well-intentioned
feelings which some persons are found to cherish.

The noble duke has said that tests are no securities against the admission of atheists or schismatics,
and that a man may take them who dissented from them, if he chose to stifle all his feelings
of right and wrong. But, my lords, I beg leave to say that tests are no security against any
man. It is impossible ever to have looked at the history of religion in any state, or at any
period, and not to feel that the test laws have been the weakest ground upon which any faith
could stand. Were tests any security for the heathen religion against the vital spirit of the
heaven-descended energy of Christianity? Yet we are aware that every act of the life of a heathen
was in itself a test. He could not sit to his meat, he could not retire to rest, he could not
go through the most simple transactions of life, without some act of acknowledgment offered
towards some heathen deity. Unless these observances were attended to by the Christians, they
were subject to the most cruel punishments, and yet such means failed to preserve the dominant
faith. In fact, it is well known that one of the most violent persecutions of the Christians,
instituted by the Roman emperors, was followed, as it were, almost immediately by the establishment
of Christianity as the dominant religion of the empire. Were tests any security to the Roman
Catholic religion, against the growing light and energy of the Protestant faith? Tests of various
kinds were adopted at the very moment the new doctrines showed themselves, but it was soon
found that they were vain and fragile against the light and strength of the new doctrines.
Were tests any security to these very universities themselves? I have not looked very deeply
into this subject; I have no doubt that if I were to look closer into it, I should find more
instances of the sort; but I find that about fourteen years after the establishment of King's
College, in the university of Cambridge, a decree was sent down there by King Henry VI., admonishing
the scholars, that is to say, in the language of the present day, the fellows of that college,
against the damnable and pernicious errors (so it styled them), of John Wickliffe and Richard
Peacock, and denouncing the pains of expulsion from college, and perjury, against those of
them who should show any favour to those doctrines. Yet, in two years after this, this very
king's college became what, at that time was called the most heretical, but which now, in our
time, would be called the most Protestant college in the university; and we know that these
doctrines thus fiercely denounced, and strongly guarded against by tests, about fifty or sixty
years afterwards became, by law, the established religion of this country. It is upon her native
strength--upon her own truth--it is upon her spiritual character, and upon the purity of her
doctrines, that the Church of England rests. Let her not, then, look for support in such aids
as these. It is by these means, and not by tests and proscriptions, that protestantism has
been maintained; let her be assured of this.

August 1, 1834.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cause of the dismissal of the Melbourne Administration in November, 1834.

I am not responsible for the dissolution of the late government. The late government was dissolved
from the absolute impossibility of its going on any longer. When a noble earl (Spencer), whom
I do not now see in his place, was removed from the House of Commons, by the necessity of taking
his seat in this house, it was impossible for the late government to go on. I will just desire
your lordships to recollect that it was stated by the noble earl (Grey), who so worthily filled
the situation of prime minister for nearly four years, when his noble colleague (Lord Althorp),
in the House of Commons, thought proper to resign, "that he had lost his right hand, and that
it had thus become absolutely impossible for him to continue to carry on the government, or
to serve the Crown with honour or advantage." Not only did the noble earl make this declaration
of his inability to go on upon the retirement of his noble colleague from his majesty's councils,
but the noble viscount opposite, himself, when he afterwards came to form his government, stated
that the noble earl (Spencer), having consented to retain his office and position in the House
of Commons, he was prepared to undertake to preside over his majesty's councils, and carry
on the business of the country. But this was not all; for I happen to know that, when the noble
viscount found that he was likely to be deprived of the services and assistance of that noble
lord in the other house, he felt that his administration would be placed in circumstances of
the greatest difficulty and embarrassment. Besides that, it was perfectly well known to his
majesty, that the influence of that noble lord in the other house of parliament was the foundation
on which the government to which he was attached, reposed; and, that that support being removed,
it must fall. When, therefore, his majesty found that it was fairly put to him whether he would
consent to arrangements for the late government proceeding as it best could, or whether he
would consent to steps being taken for the formation of another administration, it was surely
natural for his majesty to consider his own situation, and the situation in which the late
government was lately placed by the death of the late Earl Spencer.

February 24, 1835.

       *       *       *       *       *

Why the Duke of Wellington held so many offices, ad interim, in November, 1834.

I gave his majesty the best advice which, under the circumstances of the case, it appeared
to me practicable to give. I advised his majesty to send for that right hon. gentleman (Sir
R. Peel), a member of the House of Commons, who seemed to me to be the most fit and capable
person to place at the head of the new administration, as first lord of the treasury. That
right honourable gentleman was then in another part of the world, and some time must necessarily
elapse before it would be possible that he could return to this country. It appeared to his
majesty and to myself, however, to be essentially necessary that, in the meantime, the government
should be taken possession of and administered. This step I considered to be absolutely necessary,
and I also felt it to be absolutely necessary that, whoever might exercise the authority of
government in the interval, should take no step that might embarrass or compromise the right
honourable baronet on his return. It was only on that ground that I accepted, for the time,
of the offices of first lord of the treasury, and secretary of state for the home department.

The noble viscount has made a little mistake in alleging that I was appointed to three departments
at once. He makes it a matter of charge against me that I exercised the authority of the three
secretaries of state; but the noble viscount knows very well that the secretary of state for
the home department is competent, under certain circumstances, to do so. When Mr. Canning was
secretary of state for the foreign department, he was appointed first lord of the treasury.
The latter office Mr. Canning received on the 12th of April, and he did not resign the seals
of the foreign department until the 30th of that month. During the whole of that period Mr.
Canning discharged the duties both of secretary of state for foreign affairs, and first lord
of the treasury. My lords, I am quite aware that there were at that period, two other secretaries
of state, but the fact is as I have stated it, that Mr. Canning exercised at the same time;
the functions both of first lord of the treasury, and secretary of state for the foreign department.
The transaction in my case was, therefore, not unprecedented; and I must also say, that when
the noble viscount thought proper to blame me, as he did, he was bound to show that my conduct,
in that respect, had been attended with some evil or inconvenient result. Now, it does not
appear that it has been attended with any such result. The fact is, that during the whole of
the time that I held the two offices. I cautiously avoided taking any step which might be productive
of subsequent embarrassment or inconvenience, and when my right honourable friend took possession
of his office, I can undertake to say that he did not find himself compromised by any such act.

February 24,1835.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lord Londonderry's appointment to the Embassy at St. Petersburgh.

My lords, having learned that it would not be disagreeable to my noble friend to be employed
in the public service, I did concur in the recommendation, or rather, my lords, I did recommend
to my right honourable friend, Sir Robert Peel, that my noble friend should be appointed ambassador
to the court of St. Petersburgh. I made this recommendation, founded as it was on my own personal
knowledge of my noble friend for many years past,--on the many great and important military
services he has performed, and on the fitness he has proved himself to possess for such an
appointment in those various diplomatic employments he has filled during a long period of time;
more particularly at the court of Vienna, where for a period of nine years, he performed most
important services to the entire satisfaction of the ministers who employed him, up to the
last moment of his employment. He returned from the discharge of that office, my lords, with
the strongest testimony of the approbation of the then secretary of state for foreign affairs.
I was aware, my lords, of the peculiar talents of my noble friend in certain respects, for
this particular office, and of his consequent fitness for this very description of diplomatic
employment, especially on account of his being a military officer of high rank in the service
of this country, and of distinguished reputation in the Russian army. I knew the peculiar advantages
that must attach to an individual conducting such an embassy on that account. Under these circumstances,
I was justified, my lords, in recommending my noble friend, and I was glad to find that my
right honourable friend concurred in that recommendation, and that his majesty was pleased
to approve of it. I may also add, that the nomination of my noble friend having been communicated
in the usual manner to the court of St. Petersburgh, it was received with approbation at that
court. For all these reasons, my lords, it was with the greatest regret I learned that this
nomination,--for it had gone no further than nomination,--was not approved of in another place;
for it is in consequence of that expression of disapproval that my noble friend, with that
delicacy of feeling which belongs to his character, has declined the office.

March 16,1834.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prerogative of the Crown in appointing Ambassadors.

There can be no doubt whatever that there is no branch of the prerogative of the crown greater,
or more important, than that of sending ambassadors to foreign courts; nor is there any branch
of that prerogative the unrestricted use of which ought to be kept more inviolate. But, my
lords, the ministers of the crown are responsible for these nominations. They are also responsible
for the instructions under which my noble friend, or any other noble lord so nominated, is
bound to act. They are, moreover, responsible for the proper performance of these duties on
the part of those whom they select--to the other house of parliament, and to the country at
large. It is impossible, therefore, for me to believe that the House of Commons would in this
case proceed so far as to interfere with that peculiar prerogative, and to say that an individual
who has been already nominated by the crown should not fill the situation; inasmuch as, by
so doing, the House of Commons would not only be taking upon itself the nomination of the officer,
and the direction of the particular duties to be discharged by him--but would also be relieving
the minister from the constitutional responsibility of the appointment. I do not think that
sentiments of such a description, on a subject of this delicacy and importance, are very general;
and I cannot bring myself to believe that a vote affirming such a violation of the royal prerogative
would have passed the House of Commons.

March 15,1835.

I

The Roman Catholics interested in maintaining the Established Church.

The great bulk of the Roman Catholics are as much interested as the Protestants of the established
church in maintaining the safety of the established church.

June 10, 1835.

       *       *       *       *       *

Defence of the Thirty-nine Articles.

I conceive that there is no cause to complain of the subscription to the thirty-nine articles,
as practised in Oxford. The explanation given by the most reverend prelate is entirely borne
out by the statues of the university, and by the practice that prevails there; and this explanation
agrees entirely with that given by a right reverend prelate, who was formerly head of one of
the colleges at Oxford. It might, perhaps, be desirable that some other test should be adopted
to prove that the individuals to be matriculated are members of the church of England; the
most important point is, that Cambridge and Oxford should be filled only by members of the
Church of England--upon that I consider the whole question to rest. The noble earl said, in
the course of the discussion, that I advised your lordships not to consent to the bill introduced
last session; because, if you did, you would have to carry to the foot of the throne a measure
which would tend to subvert the union between church and state. My meaning in so doing was
neither more nor less than this--that it was absolutely necessary that the universities, founded
as they are, should educate their members in the religion of the church of England. Your lordships
could not go to the king, and ask his consent to a bill which had for its object to establish
in the university a system of education different from that of the church of England, without
attacking the very foundation of the principle of the connexion between church and state. But
the noble lord says, the church herself does not exact subscription to the thirty-nine articles
from each individual. It is very true that the church of England does not require subscription
from her members, nor would the university of Oxford require it, but as a proof that the person
subscribing was a member of that church, or of the family of a member thereof.

The noble earl stated that individuals might obtain admittance to the universities both of
Oxford and Cambridge, notwithstanding that they were dissenters; but there is a great deal
of difference between casually admitting dissenters, and permitting them to enter into the
universities as a matter of right. I see no objection to the admission of the few now admitted,
who must submit to the regulations and discipline of the university, and of its several colleges;
but I do object to the admission of dissenters into the universities by right; and my reason
for making this exception is, that I am exceedingly desirous that the religion taught there
should be the religion of the church of England; and I confess I should be very apprehensive
that, if dissenters of all denominations were admitted by right, and they were not under the
necessity of submitting to the rules and regulations of the several colleges, not only would
the religion of the church of England not to be taught there, but no kind of religion whatever.
I state this on the authority of a report which I have recently received of the proceedings
of an institution in this country for the instruction of children of dissenting clergymen;
from which it appears absolutely impossible, for any length of time, to adhere to any creed,
or any tenet or doctrine in these seminaries, in which every doctrine is matter of dispute
and controversy. I was rather surprised to hear the noble viscount opposite--a minister of
the crown--express his preference for polemical disputations in the universities. I should
have thought that he would have felt it to be his inclination, as well as duty, by all means
to protect the universities from such disputes, and from a system fruitful in such controversies;
and probably to end in a cessation of any system of religion or religious instruction whatever,
on account of the different opinions of the members.

July 14,1835.

       *       *       *       *       *

University Tests rendered necessary by Toleration.

The tests in our universities are the children of the Reformation, which the system of toleration
wisely established in this country has rendered still more necessary, if we intend to preserve
the standard of the religion of the church of England. If we open the door wide and say "We
will have no established religion at all--every man shall follow the religion he chooses"--if,
in a word, we have recourse to the voluntary system,--then we must make up our minds to take
the consequences which must follow from the enactments of the bill and the polemical and other
controversial agitations to which it must lead. But, supposing the object of the noble lord,
to put an end to these tests, to be desirable, I can conceive no mode of effecting this object
so objectionable as the interference by parliament with the privileges of the universities,
secured to them by charter and repeatedly acknowledged and confirmed by parliament.

July 14 1835

       *       *       *       *       *

Irish Clergy--their Depression by the Melbourne Government.

I do say that the Protestant people and clergy of Ireland have great reason to complain of
the want of protection to their rights and properties manifested on the part of the government
of this country; and this is the cause of those disputes and those circumstances which the
noble lord opposite (Lord Melbourne) has complained of in the few words he has addressed to
the house on the subject. Far be it from me to wish for the renewal of any dissensions in Ireland;
and, God knows, I would go any length, and do any thing in my power to put them down in the
extent to which they now exist; but we are mistaken if we suppose that they can be put down
by oppressing one party, or allowing one party to oppress another, or by extinguishing--an
extinction which for the last three or four years you have attempted and are now about to complete--that
description of property in Ireland allotted to the payment of the clergy. This is the circumstance
which occasions the present dissensions in Ireland, and which has induced the present discussion
in this house. The noble lord opposite cannot lament the cause of such discussions more than
I do; but if he be determined to do his duty, let him give the protection of his majesty's
government to the Protestant clergy and people of Ireland, as he does not hesitate to do in
the case of other classes in that country; and the evils which he so much deplores will soon
cease to exist.

July 16, 1835.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Power of Revising Railway Acts ought to be Reserved by the Legislature.

I certainly have a very strong feeling on the subject of all these railways to be traversed
by the aid of steam. I sincerely wish that all these projects could prove successful; but,
in proportion as they may be successful, in the same proportion is it desirable that there
should not be a perpetual monopoly established in the country. Under these circumstances, I
have a strong feeling that it is desirable to insert in all these bills some clause, to enable
the government or the parliament to revise the enactments contained in them at some future
specific period. I conceive that, by carrying these measures into execution, a very great injustice
is often done to many landed proprietors in the country; and they are forced either to submit
to great inconvenience, or to contend against that inconvenience by incurring a very large
expense, both in this and the other house of parliament. If some measure of the description
to which I allude be not adopted, and if these railroads are to become monopolies in the hands
of present or of future proprietors, we shall hereafter be only able to get the better of such
monopolies by forming fresh lines of road, to the farther detriment of the interests of the
landed proprietors, and at a great increase of expense and inconvenience. These circumstances
have most forcibly struck my mind. I have had the subject under consideration for some days;
I have conversed with others respecting it; and it appears to me that some plan ought to be
devised in order to bring these railroads under the supervision of parliament at some future
period. I therefore am anxious that the further proceedings in all these bills[18] should be
suspended for a short time, in order that I may propose some clause, or introduce some measure,
to meet the object to which I have referred. I think it is a subject the consideration of which
ought not to fall on any individual. It is, I conceive, a matter which the government should
take into its especial consideration. I am, however, perfectly ready to share with the government
the responsibility of proposing such a measure to the house.

[Footnote 18: Some railway bills before the Home of Lords.]

June 3,1836.

       *       *       *       *       *

Moderation of the Opposition in the House of Lords towards the Melbourne Government.

From my own experience, I must take the liberty of observing, that I consider the conduct pursued
by noble lords on this side of the house, throughout the present session, to have been marked
with the utmost moderation. For myself, I think I am correct in stating, that since the address
to the throne in answer to the king's speech, with the exception only of one occasion, when
I requested the noble viscount to postpone the Corporations (Ireland) Bill till after the Easter
holidays, I never entered the house till after Easter. Since that period, I have certainly
taken part in the proceedings that have been going forward in the house, and I have felt it
my duty to oppose some of the measures of government; but I think I shall be borne out when
I say that I have accompanied the vote which I have given with observations expressed in terms
of great moderation. I have acted on all occasions to the best of my opinion, and in a way
which I thought most calculated to be beneficial to the country. The noble viscount has been
pleased to taunt us for not having addressed the king with a view to obtain his and his colleagues'
removal from the situations which they hold. If the noble viscount would look at the manner
in which they were appointed to office, if he would look at the whole history for the last
twelve months I think he would find sufficient reason for our not having adopted that course
of proceeding. The noble viscount knows very well upon what ground he stands, and knowing that,
it would have been just as well in him if he had avoided his taunts against us for not having
asked the king to remove him from office. I would take the liberty to recommend the noble viscount
to consider himself not as the minister of a democratic body in another place, but as the minister
of a sovereign in a limited monarchy, in a country, great in point of extent, great in its
possessions, and in the various interests which it comprises; and that considering these circumstances,
he should, in future, concert such measures as he has reason to think may pass with the approval
and suit the general interests of all,--meet the good will of all,--and not of one particular
party in one particular place only. If the noble viscount will but follow that course for some
little time, he will find no difficulty in conducting the business of government in this house,
but will find every facility afforded him in forwarding measures of the above description.
I would beg the noble lord to recollect one fact, in regard to the church of England, whether
in England or Ireland. Let him recollect that the avowed policy followed by this country during
the last three hundred years, has been to retain inviolable the church establishment. We are
called here to consult particularly for the good of the church; and if the noble viscount brings
forward any measures relating to that subject, let him recollect that all measures of such
a kind must be discussed by us with that particular object in view. This is not only the old
feeling of this house of three hundred years' standing, but it is that on which we acted no
longer than eight or nine years ago, when we had occasion to review the safeguards and general
landmarks whereby the church establishment of this country was defended.

August 18, 1836.

The Quadruple Treaty. Effects of our Intervention in Spain.

It is well known to your lordships that I was one of those who objected to the treaty called
the "Quadruple Treaty." It is perfectly true that I was afterwards instrumental in carrying
it into effect; because it was my duty, in the situation in which I was placed at that time,
to carry into effect those treaties which his majesty had entered into, whether I had originally
approved of them or not. I cannot, therefore, now, disapprove of the due execution of the quadruple
treaty by others; nor will I refuse my assent to the proposition that the measures which his
majesty has adopted in execution of the treaty are satisfactory as far as we have any knowledge
of them. If any measures should have been adopted, not already provided for in the treaty,
it will be our duty to consider them calmly and dispassionately. Much discussion has taken
place in other countries with respect to the course pursued by other members of this alliance,
in the execution of this treaty. I must say, that so far as I am enabled to form a judgment
of the treaty, (and I know nothing more than what appears on the face of the treaty itself)
it seems to me that it has been fairly executed by all the parties who subscribed it. When
I had the honour of serving his majesty in 1834, I was called upon to state whether the treaty
in question would be carried into execution. I then stated what I understood was the meaning
and scope of the treaty;--viz. that there should be no armed intervention in the internal affairs
of Spain, which should tend to affect the independence of that country. That was my sense of
the treaty at the time--it is my sense of the treaty at the present moment--it was so understood
by the other parties to the treaty. It was the understanding of all parties that there should
he no military intervention in the internal affairs of Spain. This was the understanding of
the treaty, and in the month of November, 1834, this explanation was communicated and was satisfactory
to the Spanish government.

I consider that the attempt by his majesty's government, aided even by the strongest power
in Europe, to force upon Spain any form of government, must fail. Those who should make the
attempt must take upon themselves not only the expenses of their own army in a most expensive
contest, but those of the civil and military government of Spain; and they must hold their
position in Spain, and defray their expenses till the new government should be settled and
submitted to, and tranquillity established in the country. I should like to see how the Commons
House of Parliament, or the Chamber of Deputies, would treat a proposition that should call
upon them to agree to a vote of money for any such operation, for the purpose of forcibly imposing
a liberal government on Spain, or on any other country. I contend my lords, that this scheme
is absolutely impracticable. His majesty's ministers may rely on it, that they have undertaken
that which they never can perform; and that the sooner they place themselves on the footing
on which they ought strictly to stand with reference to the quadruple alliance, the sooner
will the pacification of Spain, which we must all of us anxiously wish for, be accomplished.
I feel, for one, the strongest objection to anything like interference with the internal affairs
of the Peninsula. I object to it, not only on account of the vast expense it must inevitably
entail upon this country, but still more so on account of the injury which it inflicts on the
parties existing in that state. Of my own certain knowledge I can state, that the individuals
composing these parties in Spain, have actually been ruined, their properties confiscated,
their fortunes sacrificed, by the course which his majesty's government have pursued. Acting
under the assurances of his majesty's government, individuals have adopted a certain line of
conduct. They followed his majesty's government, as a party in the state. His majesty's government,
thus acting, is obliged to move forward with the democratic movement The unfortunate persons
I have alluded to have, in consequence, been abandoned, their fortunes sacrificed, and their
prospects blighted for ever. Events like these, my lords, which affect the character as well
as the influence of the country, inclined me to be more adverse to such interference than I
should be on the mere score of expense. I do not mean to oppose the address, but in taking
this course, I beg to be clearly understood as not holding myself bound to approve of the employment
of any force beyond that stipulated for by the quadruple treaty, which treaty parliament has
recognised.

January 30,1837.

The Poor Law Act has surpassed his expectation.

My lords, I supported the bill while it was in this house; and having given that support to
the bill from being a witness to the evils, and being apprehensive of the consequences likely
to have attended the former system, I conceive it to be my duty to come forward on this occasion,
and to state that this bill has surpassed any expectation which I had formed of the benefits
likely to result from it. The bill, my lords, may require amendment in certain parts, and it
appears that his majesty's government have taken measures to ascertain what points in the bill
so require amendment. I, for one, am ready to pay the greatest attention to the points which
may be brought under the consideration of this house. But I must say that I approve of the
measure as far as it has gone hitherto, and I have witnessed its operation. I do not talk of
what I have seen generally, I talk of the details of the management of the bill, from having
witnessed that management in different workhouses, in different parts of the country in which
I have resided; and I must say that it has been practically beneficial, and particularly in
cases such as these. First of all, it has put the workman and his employer upon a true and
friendly footing of confidence. Then it has connected the man of property, the man of the highest
rank in his country, with the lowest class, with the labouring class, by admitting such to
the board of Guardians. I can mention some noble lords, who are ornaments to this house, and
who constantly attend at the weekly meetings of the guardians, being elected guardians by the
parishes in the neighbourhood in which they reside. No measure could be attended with better
results, and being convinced that it will effect still greater benefits, sincerely thinking
so, I should be ashamed if I did not step forward, and at once avow my sentiments respecting
it. I avow at once that I supported the bill at the time his majesty's ministers proposed it--that
I do not repent of what I did on that occasion in so supporting it--but, on the contrary, that
I rejoice in the part I then took; and I now congratulate his majesty's ministers on its success.

April 7, 1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Universities--their Education System the admiration of the World.

The working of all these colleges and of the system on which they are regulated, is for the
benefit of the public; and in each and every college the object is to carry into execution
the will of the founder, just as it would probably have been had he lived to this period. In
every case the great object of the governing authorities is, to benefit the public by the education
of the youth who resort to these institutions. The noble viscount (Melbourne) could not help
admitting that these institutions have worked well, and that latterly a great improvement has
taken place in the system of education pursued under their auspices. The noble viscount has
also spoken of the great improvement in the system of education pursued in the new university
of Durham, and in other new universities elsewhere. But, nevertheless, the noble viscount could
not help admitting that the old universities of Oxford and Cambridge possess the merit of having
established in England an excellent system of education, which is, in point of fact, the envy
and admiration of the world.

April 11, 1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Quadruple Treaty condemned.

My lords, I must confess that I did not approve of the original Quadruple Treaty. I considered
it inconsistent with the ancient principle and the policy and practice adopted in this country
with regard to Portugal, to avoid to interfere in the disputes between the two princes of the
House of Braganza, which had been the policy of this country for many years. It sanctioned
the introduction of Spanish troops into Portugal, which measure was inconsistent with our defensive
relations with Portugal, and which had been objected to and prevented in that very contest
between the rival princes of the House of Braganza. Yet it gave no fresh assistance to bring
the contests in Portugal to a conclusion, excepting the promise to give the aid of this country
by the employment of a naval force in co-operation with the Spanish and Portuguese troops,
which aid was not necessary. Another objection which I entertained to the Quadruple Treaty
was, that it mixed up France and this country in the offers and promises made to Don Carlos
and Don Miguel, in the fifth and sixth articles of the treaty. These powers became, in fact,
guarantees for the performance of these engagements, as well as for the performance of the
engagements made under the same articles of the treaty to the subjects of Portugal and Spain.
It is impossible to describe the inconvenience of such articles; they require the interference
of government in hundreds of little questions. I have felt the inconvenience of those articles
since their adoption; I stated my objections to them at the time, and I have seen no reason,
since, to alter the opinions I then formed.

April 21, 1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

Effects of the Additional Articles to the Quadruple Treaty.

By the first of the additional articles to the treaty, the King of the French obliged himself
to take such measures in those parts of his dominions which adjoined to Spain, as might be
calculated to prevent succours of men, arms, and warlike stores being sent from France into
Spain; and the King of Great Britain engaged, under the second of the said additional articles,
to furnish such arms and warlike stores as her majesty the Queen of Spain might require; and
further to assist her majesty with a naval force if necessary. The Duke of Braganza was to
give his best assistance to serve her majesty, that he might be called upon to render. So that
those additional articles were essentially different from the terms and provisions of the original
treaty, by which the removal of the two princes from Portugal was effected. I do not mean to
say, that, in the preamble to that treaty, allusion is not made to the affairs both of Spain
and Portugal, but there still is a remarkable difference between the words used in the treaty
and the additional articles; and moat particularly in relation to the part to be taken by this
country.

April 21, 1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Legion and the Stock Exchange.--Impotency of our interference.

I contend, as I have before contended in this house, that his majesty's present ministers (Lord
Melbourne's government) ought not to have departed from the position which the previous administration
had established while they were in power. I will not pretend to say what would have been the
result of their following out that course, but this I do say, that the course pursued by his
lordship's government has not benefited the military or the financial affairs of Spain, or
promoted the peace of that country or the general tranquillity of Europe, or attained any of
the political advantages which the noble viscount boasts have been attained by his departure
from that position which the previous government had occupied and left to their successors.
But, my lords, it did unfortunately happen that certain parties in this country had been connected
with the Spanish finances; and it was important to those parties that the red coats should
make their appearance in Spain, and that the name of "Great Britain," and of the British legion,
should be mixed up in the operations of the war. Money was raised in this country to defray
the expense of the equipment of the "Legion," as it was called, of 10,000 or 12,000 men, and
also of their pay, their food, and maintenance, for a certain number of months; and the noble
lords, in order that this scheme might be carried into execution, gave their consent to the
order in council for the suspension of the Foreign Enlistment Act. The corps gathered in this
country, and went to Spain, in the spring of the year 1835, nearly two years ago. Their first
operation upon their arrival at St. Sebastian, was a march over the very same ground to the
very spot which was the scene of the late disaster. My lords, up to that moment, the Eliot
convention, as it is most honourably and justly called, had been carried into execution. It
was on that day departed from on both sides, and from that day to this, I firmly believe, from
all I have seen and read,--and I have read much on the subject within the last few days--there
has been no certainty in the execution of that convention. Not only has there been no certainty
in the execution of that convention, but, notwithstanding the millions of money that Spain
has expended,--notwithstanding the blood which has been shed and the number of lives that have
been lost,--I will venture to say, that the military affairs of the Queen of Spain are in a
worse condition now than they were in the month of May, 1835.

The whole of the policy of the British government, therefore; all the operations of the British
legion, backed by the British squadron; have effected nothing more nor less towards putting
an end to the war, and giving peace to Spain and to Europe, than the removal of the blockade
of St. Sebastian from one point to another, so as not to come within the liability of being
affected by the 68-pounders of the British steamers, under the command of Lord John Hay.

April 21,1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

Uselessness of the operations of the Legion, and Lord John Hay's Squadron, at St. Sebastian.

If the noble lord supposes that the safety of St. Sebastian had been more or less endangered
by the blockade, I can assure him that he is much mistaken; for, from what I know of that fortified
town, which is one of the first or second order in Europe, I can take upon myself to say that
the Carlists might have been left in their original position without any danger whatever to
the town, because they could not make an attack upon such a fortress. In the whole course of
the war they have not, to my knowledge, taken by an attack any fortified post; or even any
open town of any magnitude, prepared for its defence. They could not have distressed St. Sebastian
for provisions, because its communication with the sea could not be prevented. I say, it could
not be prevented, even if the whole British fleet were blockading it, instead of being there
to relieve it. The amount of inconvenience felt in the town from the Carlist force being in
the neighbourhood, was neither more nor less than the unpleasantness of ladies and gentlemen,
residing there, being prevented taking their evening walks in the neighbourhood. This is the
whole amount of the inconvenience from which the town was relieved. This was the whole amount
of the service rendered.

April 21,1837.

Strictures on General Evans.

My lords, I will go a little further. I will say, that I firmly believe that the connexion
between the legion and the fleet has been injurious to the military operations of the queen
of Spain's generals. That is my decided opinion, founded upon my knowledge of the nature of
the country, and of the position of both parties. My lords, there is one point to which I refer;
that is, the want of communication between the Queen of Spain's generals, which can be relied
upon. If corps of the size of those now employed are not actually joined, there must be a certain
communication between them; for, without communication there can be no co-operation; and any
attempt at co-operation would, in my opinion, in all probability, lead to disasters such as
have recently taken place at Hernani. How are these troops situated? General Evans's troops
are at St. Sebastian; General Saarsfield is at the other side of the Borunda, at Pampeluna;
and Espartero, with his army, is at Bilboa. It is impossible that there can be any communication
between these three, except by the French frontier, and by sea from Socoa, or by the Ebro.
An arrangement is made for an attack, and a day named. What was the consequence? General Evans
made an attack, but General Saarsfield, at Pampeluna, does not attack; there is a frost or
snow, or rain, or some physical impediment which prevents a movement on the part of Saarsfield.
General Evans cannot be informed in time, and the enemy has opportunity and leisure to throw
his whole force upon General Evans; who, even if the troops had behaved well, would have been
compelled to retire. The position, therefore, of the legion at St. Sebastian, in order to co-operate
with the British squadron, that there might be something like British co-operation, was not
an operation of war, it was one of stock-jobbing. My lords, it is a matter of much surprise
to me, that General Evans, who, having acquired the confidence of his majesty's government,
and that of the Queen of Spain, I presume must be an able man--it is, certainly, a surprising
circumstance, that having had experience of the difficulties of carrying on communication in
that country, and having met with a check in the month of January, 1836, for want of communication,
he should not have felt the danger of his position, and should have omitted to put himself
in communication to a certainty with corps in whose co-operation he was to act, instead of
keeping himself at a distance, in order that he might carry on operations in concert with his
majesty's fleet.

April 21,1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

Undisciplined state of the Legion.

The noble lord has stated that he will not recall the marines. I would beg to remind your lordships,
and the noble viscount in particular, of this fact--that the marines are properly the garrisons
of his majesty's ships, and that upon no pretence ought they to be moved from a fair and safe
communication with the ships to which they belong. The noble lord states, that he is responsible,
and that he will take upon himself the responsibility. I have commanded his majesty's armies,
and have incurred as many risks, and faced more difficulties than, I hope, the noble lord will
ever have to encounter. I have been engaged in hostilities of this description, where co-operation
was carried on upon the coast; and though I certainly would do as much for the service, and
I believe I may say, have done as much for the service, as the noble lord, yet I would not
venture, and have never ventured, to put any corps whatever in co-operation with the Spaniards,
or in any situation whatever in which the detached troops could not communicate with the corps
from which they were detached; and, above all, upon the sea-coast, where the troops detached
could not hold communication with the ships. The first order to each of these detachments was,
to keep the communication with their ships. The loss of 400 or 500 marines may not materially
involve the honour of this country, but the lives of the men ought not to be endangered, as
they must be, if care be not taken that they should have a communication with a point of safety,
without some very extraordinary cause. We hear of the operations of the marines with the Austrians.
But the Spanish troops, and particularly the British legion, are not the Austrians. I cannot
consider this corps of General Evans to be in a state of discipline and subordination, such
as a body of troops ought to be in, with which his majesty's marine forces ought to be connected.
They have suffered very considerably; their losses have been great, and have affected their
subordination, their good order and discipline, particularly in the presence of an enemy. A
disaster or panic may occur among the best troops; but among such, order can be re-established.
It does not appear that these are in the state in which they ought to be, to render it safe
to co-operate with them. No efforts of their officers can, in such cases, have any effect upon
them.

April 21,1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

Intervention, if at all, should be on a National Scale.

The noble viscount says that we are carrying on these operations with the object of maintaining
the peace of Europe; and these objects are, more especially, put forth in a pamphlet which
is attributed to a colleague of the noble viscount, who has applauded his opinions, if he has
not gone further, and adopted them as his own. Is the noble lord desirous, in accordance with
the policy so set forth, to press upon the nation the adoption of the system of a general combination
of the powers of the west, upon principles offensive as well as defensive, against the powers
of the north and east of Europe? If so momentous an affair and such a course are seriously
contemplated, they should not be commenced by stealth, but in a manner worthy of the character
of a great nation like Great Britain. It is not by allowing Spain to raise a legion here in
the first instance, and afterwards by sending a few hundred marines, that any really important
object can be accomplished. But if the noble lords are in earnest, a message should be sent
to parliament, and the support of the country should be called for, to this new scheme of policy;
and a commanding force should be sent, in order to carry it into execution. But I recommend
the noble viscount well to consider the length of time which must elapse before these operations
can be brought to a conclusion; the expense which must, in the first instance, be incurred;
and the lengthened period which must elapse before the troops can be withdrawn, and the other
expenses can be discontinued, which must be incurred if this scheme be undertaken. The noble
lord must establish a government in Spain; he must have the assistance of a Spanish army; and
he must pay, equip, and provide for, not only his majesty's troops, but every Spanish officer
and soldier employed in the settlement of the government of the country. It may be said, that
there are financial resources in Spain; but I am much mistaken, regarding the state of the
Spanish military establishments and Spanish finances, if there are not non-effective establishments,
such as pensions, retired allowances, expenses of garrisons, and others, which will consume
the whole of the pecuniary resources of Spain, however well managed, even without including
the interest of the existing debt. I think that, if this country should have this matter fairly
brought under its view, it would not be thought advisable to enter upon the scheme proposed
in this pamphlet. But we are told that France ought to act this part; and that we ought to
give France our moral support. France act! At whose expense? France would have the same difficulties--nay,
greater difficulties--than this country. Is it intended that we are to subsidise France? No
such thing; we are to assist with our ships and marines on the coast, but it is France that
is to carry on the operations in the interior, and pay this expense. Is it believed that Louis
Philippe has lost his senses? If we cannot expect that France will pay all this expense, what
is to become of the integrity of the Spanish dominions, and the independence of the Spanish
government, after the operations shall he concluded?

April 21,1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

Necessity of Conciliating the Protestants of Ireland.

My anxious wish, my lords, has always been--and I have frankly stated it more than once in
my place in this house--that the Protestants of Ireland should be on the best terms with the
government of this country, and that the government should give them every protection and support
in its power. My firm opinion is, that the safety of this country in connection with Ireland,
the safety of the union, the permanence of the union, and, indeed, the honour of the empire,
all depend, in a great measure, if not entirely, on the good understanding which may subsist
between the government and the Protestants of Ireland. I am also certain that the prosperity
of the Protestants in Ireland, and the safety of their persons, of their riches, and of everything
dear to men, depend on their being on terms of good understanding with the government; but
that things will not go on as they ought to go on, until government induces the Protestants
of that country to return to that good understanding. That has been my opinion ever since the
commencement of these unfortunate dissensions, seven years ago; and I should be sorry to say,
this evening, one word which might be calculated to increase the irritation now existing between
both these parties. The noble viscount (Melbourne) has admitted that the Protestants of Ireland
have great reason to feel the awkwardness of their present position, and to entertain jealousy
of the government; and I must own that the noble viscount, instead of aggravating that description
of feeling which he admits the Protestants of Ireland ought to have, should use, as I conceive,
every exertion in his power to conciliate them, and to make them feel that they may depend
upon the government for the protection of their lives and property, and that they will not
be sacrificed to those who are preaching up sedition against the institutions of their country,
and insurrections against the persons and property of her people. These Protestants are in
number not less than 2,000,000. I believe they hold, my lords, about nine-tenths of the property
of Ireland; and I am sure that they are persons of the best education and of the best conduct
in that country. I believe that the province in which they reside is as well cultivated and
as well conducted in every respect as any portion of England; and the inhabitants of it deserve
on every account all the protection which the government can afford them. Let us see, my lords,
whether they have not reason to feel jealousy of the government in consequence of the transactions
of the last few years. Look at the total destruction of the property of tithe--look at the
treatment of their church--look at the various occurrences which have taken place, and see
whether they have not reason to apprehend that there is a latent intention of putting down
the Protestant livings in Ireland, and of substituting a voluntary system in place of their
present church establishment. Do you suppose that men of their description do not calculate
on the events which are likely to happen? Do you suppose that they do not read the history
of past times? We have heard the noble viscount talking of the history of the year 1782, and
of the year 1798, and of various other transactions. Let us look at the letters of Henry Lord
Clarendon, formerly chief governor of Ireland; and, having looked at them, let any man ask
himself whether the Protestants of Ireland have not a right to conceive that matters are advancing
rapidly to the state described by that noble personage, and whether the same description of
power is not now growing up which exercised so enormous an influence on the government of his
day. I consider that the statements made by the different peers who have spoken to night from
this (the conservative) side of the house ought to have, and I trust they will have, a powerful
effect on the Protestant mind of this country. At the same time that these statements are brought
forward, and the facts are made known to the public, showing that neither property nor life
is secure in Ireland, his majesty comes down to parliament with a speech, in which he says,
"Ireland is in a state of tranquillity;" and yet there is not one gentleman residing in Ireland
who was not aware, when that speech was delivered, that a general association had been formed
and was in existence in Dublin for the sole purpose of agitation--of that agitation which,
as Lord Wellesley told the country, was the cause of disturbances as undoubtedly as any one
circumstance ever was the cause of another. Do your lordships suppose that the Protestants
of Ireland are not aware of that fact?

April 28,1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lord Normanby's Gaol Deliveries.

What was the next step of which the Protestants of Ireland complained? The lord lieutenant,
they say, went into the country, from place to place, without having any communication either
with the judges or with the magistrates;--and that is a fact on which I greatly rely--the lord
lieutenant, they say, released at every county gaol which he visited a certain number of prisoners.
I have said, that the Protestants of Ireland have a very peculiar interest in the impartial
administration of the law, and in the tranquillity of the country, because they form the great
body of its landed proprietors. They must look at such a transaction with jealousy; and if
there had been no circumstances connected with such a transaction save those which have been
stated this evening, it must, I think, be admitted, that if the conduct of the lord lieutenant
was not without precedent (and I believe that no precedent can he found for it) it has yet
been still of such rare occurrence that it ought never to be repeated. I do not mean to say
that this power of enlarging prisoners has never been exercised, but I maintain that it had
never previously been exercised in such a manner. I do not pretend to be acquainted with the
technicalities of the law on this subject; but it occurs to me that several of the persons
who have been released in this peculiar manner by the lord lieutenant, had surely been guilty
of felony. I do not know exactly what the state of the law is, at present, upon this subject,
but I apprehend that persons who have been found guilty of felony ought to have some document
conveying their pardon, or in default of its production they become, I believe, liable to certain
fines and forfeitures. But in the present case persons guilty of felony have been enlarged
without any writing at all, at the simple order of the lord lieutenant, I must say, that a
proceeding of this sort is highly irregular, and that it is such an exercise of power as a
lord lieutenant in the ordinary discharge of his duty ought not to repeat; and further, that
this was an exercise of power which was most likely to produce a very pernicious effect on
the minds of the Protestants of Ireland.

April 28, 1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

Objections to the Irish Corporations Bill of 1837.

I stated, on a former occasion, that these corporations existed in their present shape, and
were brought to their present state, principally with a view to the support and protection
of the religion of the Church of England established in Ireland. Whatever may be done with
respect to these corporations for the future, in my opinion that object ought never to be lost
sight of. It may be doubted, from what has lately occurred in this country, whether that opinion
is so unanimously adopted as it was in former years; but I may venture to say, the support
of the Church of England in Ireland is still the policy of this country--the policy which his
majesty is sworn to maintain--the policy which this house is called, by writs of summons, to
uphold--the policy which every member of this, or the other house of parliament, is sworn to
uphold by the oaths which he has voluntarily taken. Under these circumstances, I think I may
safely say that, according to the ancient constitution, according to the modern constitution,
according to the uniform policy of this country for the last 300 years, the maintenance of
the Church of England in Ireland forms a prominent and important point of legislative concern.
Looking to this bill now under consideration, in relation principally to that policy, it goes
undoubtedly to establish a very large number of corporations in Ireland, the mode of their
formation being to give votes to the very lowest class of the population of the towns in which
these corporations are to be formed. This is to be done, not upon evidence of their possessing
property--not, as in England, upon residence, upon the payment of rates, or on the evidence
of their possessing anything in the nature of property; but simply on the condition that the
parties possess a 5l. or a 10l. qualification, made up of all kinds and descriptions of property
put together, and this without any proof whatever, excepting the oath of the parties themselves,
of their possessing even that qualification. It is well known to your lordships that a system
of perjury prevails in all parts of Ireland, with a view to establish franchise of this description.
I have recently seen accounts of enquiries before select committees in certain parliamentary
elections which have taken place in that country, and it is impossible to glance at them without
being impressed with the conviction that, if any description of franchise depend solely on
the oaths of the holders, every species of enquiry will be nugatory; and it will be just as
wise to establish at once a system of universal suffrage, as to establish a system of franchise
in such a manner. These corporations, thus formed by persons holding a franchise of this description,
acquired solely by their own swearing, and without any evidence whatever of their possessing
any property except their own oaths, establish a system upon which no reliance can be placed,
and on which no establishment whatever can safely depend. If your lordships want any proof
of the danger to the church of Ireland by the establishment of corporations of this description,
I will refer your lordships to the declarations, I would not say of those who are the declared
enemies, but I must say, the strongest opponents of the church, and who are found, on every
occasion, making the greatest possible exertions against the church in Ireland, These persons
are heard declaring publicly and repeatedly, almost under the very view of the government--"Give
us but this corporation bill, and all the rest must follow." If there be any doubt about it,
I beg to say, I shall not be disposed to listen to the threats of any man; but when my own
senses convince me that such must be the result, I mean danger to the establishment, I do say
it is my duty to attend to warnings of the description to which I have adverted.

May 5, 1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eulogium on King William the Fourth.

I have served his late majesty in the highest situations; I have been in his council as well
as the noble viscount (Melbourne). I, indeed, did not serve him so long as the noble viscount,
or even under any such prosperous circumstances as the noble viscount; but I have had opportunities
of witnessing, under all these circumstances, the personal advantages of character so ably
described by the noble viscount. It has fallen to my lot to serve his majesty at different
periods, and in different capacities; and, while I had the happiness of doing so, upon all
those occasions I have witnessed not only all the virtues ascribed to him by the noble viscount,
but likewise a firmness, a discretion, a candour, a justice, and a spirit of conciliation towards
others,--a respect for all. Probably there never was a sovereign who, in such circumstances
and encompassed by so many difficulties, more successfully met them than he did upon every
occasion on which he had to engage them. I was induced to serve his majesty, not only from
my sense of duty--not alone from the feeling that the sovereign of this country has the right
to command my services in any situation in which it might be considered that I might be of
use--but from a feeling of gratitude to his majesty for favours, for personal distinctions,
conferred upon me, notwithstanding that I had been unfortunately in the position of opposing
myself to his majesty's views and intentions when he was employed in a high situation under
government,[19] and in consequence of which he had to resign that great office which he must,
beyond all others, have been most anxious to retain. Notwithstanding that, my lords, he employed
me in his service; and he, as a sovereign, manifested towards me a kindness, condescension,
and favour, which, so long as I live, I never can forget. I considered myself, then, not only
bound by duty, and the sense I felt of gratitude to all the sovereigns of this country, under
whom I had lived, but more especially towards his late majesty, to relieve him from every difficulty
I could, under any circumstances.

[Footnote 19: William the Fourth, when Duke of Clarence, was under the necessity of resigning
the office of Lord High Admiral, while the Duke of Wellington was premier.]

June 22, 1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

Agrarian Disturbances in Ireland are earned by Political Agitation.

The noble earl opposite has stated, that the tranquillity mentioned in her majesty's speech
from the throne, on opening the present parliament, was not intended to mean judicial or agrarian
tranquillity, but political tranquillity. And what is the sort of political tranquillity existing
in Ireland? I believe that a very few days before the speech in which the word tranquillity
is used was delivered, the association which was assembled in the capital of Ireland, under
the eyes of the noble earl opposite, was dissolved; but, at the same time, her majesty was
given to understand, that she was not to have the choice of her ministers, but that they must
be selected by the gentleman who was the founder and the head of that association. Now, to
talk of tranquillity--political tranquillity--in any part of that country, looking at the situation
in which it is placed, is vague and idle. The noble earl has said, that the agrarian disturbances
in Ireland are not to be attributed to political agitation. Now, one of the greatest authorities
that ever appeared in this or any other country--a noble relation of mine--stated, that "agrarian
disturbances in Ireland were to be attributed to political agitation, and to nothing else,
as much as effect was to be attributed to cause in any instance whatever." I say, then, that
in Ireland they have agrarian disturbances because they have political agitations.

November 27, 1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

Principle of Imprisonment for Debt.

One of the causes of debts being incurred in this country is, in a great degree, the power
which creditors at present possess to arrest their debtors upon mesne process; and I still
further believe that it is the facility which is thus given of obtaining credit, that has been
the cause of the great mercantile prosperity of the country. The enormous transactions upon
credit are such, that both individuals and the public generally, require further means of recovering
debts than exist in other countries.

December 5,1837.

The Case of Dr. Hampden.

The late king was advised to appoint that gentleman to be Regius Professor of Divinity in the
university of Oxford. There can be no doubt that the general opinion of the university was,
that that gentleman's theological tenets were not exactly orthodox, or consistent with the
articles of the church of England,--an opinion which the publication of certain works by that
gentleman has tended to establish.

Several persons in the university considered it their duty to petition his majesty, praying,
if the appointment had not been completed, that he would not make it. I believe that another
address was presented to his majesty, entreating his majesty not to sanction that appointment,
which, however, was made, contrary to the views of the university at large; and a short time
afterwards, Dr. Hampden thought right, in his inaugural lecture, to state that he then felt
it his duty to explain the opinions which had been complained of. I do not pretend to be a
judge either of those opinions or that explanation; but this I will venture to say, and I believe
your lordships will concur in the opinion, that in proportion as Dr. Hampden found it necessary
to give an explanation of his sentiments, in the same proportion were those justified who thought
proper to disapprove of them. I believe it will be admitted that, if a clergyman who published
certain opinions, not being orthodox, thought proper to come forward and explain those opinions,
at least they who were opposed to such opinions had some justification, on their being repeated,
for the course they had taken in disapproving of them. This is all I wish to say respecting
the opinions and explanation of Dr. Hampden. His appointment having been made, notwithstanding
the petition of a vast number of the clergy of Oxford, and the general opinion expressed there
that it should not be made, a request was preferred to the heads of houses that they would
propose some measure to the convocation which would have the effect of marking the disapprobation
on the part of that body of the opinions and appointment of Dr. Hampden. The noble earl has
alluded to the act of convocation excluding Dr. Hampden from being one of those to appoint
the select preachers, and also from sitting at the board of heresy. I am not disposed to say
anything against Dr. Hampden; but this I must say, that, considering the whole transaction,
my opinion is, the convocation did as little upon that occasion as it was possible to do, consistently
with the necessity which existed of taking some notice of that gentleman, his opinions and
conduct. Since that period, I really believe that the university, and the bishops of the church
of England, and all the persons who have any influence on this question, have done everything
in their power to put it down, and prevent it becoming a subject of discussion, even in the
university or elsewhere. For myself, I can say, I have invariably pursued that course, it being
my object to prevent any discussion on the matter; and I never should have mentioned it, here
or elsewhere, publicly, if the noble earl had not forced it upon me on the present occasion.
I certainly lament the transaction, principally because I consider it is likely to produce
a schism in the church; and I have been as anxious as any man can be in my situation, to prevent
the university from proceeding on the subject in such a manner as may, by possibility, lead
to that result.

The noble earl adverted to the conduct of a gentleman who is now vice-chancellor of the university,
and who has, in his capacity of head of a house, prohibited the attendance of the students
in divinity upon the lectures of the Regius Professor. I do not at all pretend to be competent
to mark the difference between the private and public lectures of the Regius Professor; but
I certainly do not approve of the course taken by that gentleman. In my opinion, the question
is not one to be considered by the head of a house; for, in fact, no ordination can be conferred
by him or the Regius Professor of Divinity. Ordination can only be conferred by the bishops
of the church; and whether the students attend the lectures of the Regius Professor of Divinity,
or those of the Margaret Professor, or of any other professor, I will say, it is the duty of
the bishops of the church to consider who are the persons coming for ordination, and whether
they are qualified or not, without taking into consideration the certificates of the Regius
Professor of Divinity, the head of a house, or any other individual. It is, I contend, the
duty of the bishops to examine into the subject themselves, without reference to the certificate
of any individual whatever. I must observe, however, with regard to the course adopted by the
vice-chancellor, that I am thoroughly convinced, not only from what that gentleman has stated
to me, but from my knowledge of that gentleman's conduct, and his character for candour and
fairness, that he had the very wisest motives in pursuing that course, from which he departed
as soon as he found that the bishops of the church had determined upon observing a different
line, conceiving that he was then relieved from all charge and responsibility in the situation
which he held. Such is the history of that transaction; and I have only to say, with respect
to that gentleman, and with respect to others of the university of Oxford, that it was their
anxious wish and desire to avoid taking any step in reference to Dr. Hampden, lest it should,
in any manner whatever, lead to what they would consider the greatest possible misfortune--a
schism in the church.

December 21,1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

A great country cannot wage a little war.

January 16, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

Conduct of the Canadian Leaders.

I differ entirely from the noble and learned lord in thinking that the act of 1831 established
the British constitution in Canada, for it is not consistent with the British constitution
to leave the civil government of the country--and especially to leave the judges of the land--to
be provided for by an annual vote of the parliament. I say, my lords, that the British constitution,
for the last hundred and fifty years at least, has made a fixed and not uncertain provision
for supporting the dignity of the crown, for meeting the expenses attendant on the administration
of the civil government, and most particularly for the independence of the judges of the land.
But is that the state of things in Lower Canada? No. I maintain that the act of 1831 did not
establish the British constitution in the colonies of Upper and Lower Canada, but something
quite distinct; for it gave to the people a popular representation, which, in my opinion, is
the cause of all the disputes that have followed, and of the insurrection which has taken place.
It gave individuals the power to create prejudices in the minds of the people, to weaken the
loyalty of the Canadians, and to raise them in hostility against her majesty's crown and government.
And what has been the object of these individuals in the course which they have pursued? They
have supposed that, by creating dissatisfaction amongst the people, they could thereby throw
off the authority of the crown; and, by gathering the people around them, overturn the government
established in the colony. Such have been the objects of those individuals who have been seen
running off to the neighbouring territories of the United States as soon as they found their
own persons exposed to danger. This turned out to be the real state of the case; for the would-be
leaders left the unfortunate people in a state of rebellion against her majesty's government,
and ran off themselves, letting the unlucky inhabitants return to their houses as best they
could; and forcing them to submit, with the best grace they might, to the mercy of her majesty's
government.

January 18, 1838.

Evils of popular Rights.

I warned the noble lord against endangering the establishments of the country, by giving anything
like an authority to a popular assembly to withhold the funds necessary for carrying on the
civil government; for nothing is more needful to a country than to uphold the civil power,
and the independence--as well pecuniary as political--of the judges of the land. And let noble
lords learn, from the events in Canada, and other dominions in North America, what it is to
hold forth what are called "popular rights," but which are not popular rights either here or
elsewhere; and what occasion is thereby given to the perpetuation of a system of agitation
which ends in insurrection and rebellion, and the coming to blows with her majesty's troops.

January 18,1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

Importance of reducing the Canadian Rebels.

I confess, my lords, that I have a feeling for the honour of my country, and I cannot but believe
that if, by any misfortune, we should fail in restoring peace in Lower Canada, at an early
period of time, we shall receive a blow, with respect to our military character, to our reputation,
and to our honour, of which it will require years to enable us to remove the effects.

January 18,1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Elective Legislative Council in Canada deprecated.

My lords, there is one topic which has been adverted to by the noble and learned lord (Lord
Brougham), upon which I think it necessary to say a word, although it is not alluded to in
the address, and will more properly form a subject of the discussion on the bill which is to
be brought in upon some future day--and that is the establishment in Lower Canada of an elective
legislative council. The noble and learned lord, with all his knowledge of Lower Canada, has
not, in my opinion, sufficiently adverted to the fact of the difference of the two races of
inhabitants in that country. My lords, it may be easy to talk, here, of establishing an elective
council, but if the noble and learned lord will look into the discussions which have taken
place upon that subject, and to the opinions that have been delivered upon it by the different
parties, in that colony, he will find that British inhabitants are to the full as much opposed
to that arrangement as the French are in favour of it, he will find that in point of fact,
they would be in a state of insurrection against that arrangement, in the same degree as the
French are now supposed to be in a state of insurrection in favour of an elective legislative
council. I will likewise beg the noble and learned lord, and I would entreat the noble viscount
opposite, and every member of her majesty's government, to attend to this fact, that an elective
legislative council is not the constitution of the British monarchy; that a legislative council
appointed by the monarch is the constitution of this country; that this was so stated in the
discussions upon the bill passed in the year 1791, by all the great authorities who discussed
that measure, amongst others by Mr. Fox himself. That gentleman said, "that a legislative council,
appointed by the monarch, is an essential part of the British constitution."

January 18, 1838.

Concessions to Democracy cannot be rescinded.

Your lordships ought also to recollect that, since the passing of the reform bill, the taxes
required from householders paying 10l. of yearly rent have been greatly reduced, and I believe
that the poor-rates have also been diminished. These reductions have afforded great relief
to that particular class of persons, greater than has been given to any other portion of society;
and I think that, under the circumstances, the amount of qualification ought not to be further
diminished, for, if it be, a worse description of electors will be the inevitable consequence.
I perfectly recollect that a noble friend of mine, whom I do not now see in his place, warned
your lordships, on a former occasion, of the danger of making any approach to democracy in
a measure like this; and he told your lordships that, if once such a measure was adopted, you
could never turn back from it. If it be found, when carried into operation, to act ever so
injuriously--if its tendency be found to be ever so destructive to the peace and well-being
of society--still you cannot fall back on the point from which you started; for, if once granted,
the measure must be permanent.

March 8, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

Short-sighted Conduct of the West Indian Colonists.

There is no man in this house, or in the country, who has been more anxious than myself, that
the measure passed for the abolition of slavery should be entirely successful. I have, however,
conceived from the first, that the only chance of its success would arise from the colonial
legislatures acting with good faith, and carrying the measure, after it had passed the imperial
parliament, into strict execution; for which measure they have received what they acknowledge,
by their adhesion to the principle of the bill, a competent compensation. It appears, however,
to be beyond doubt, that they have not carried the new system into execution as they ought
to have done; and some two or three years ago, your lordships were under the necessity of consenting
to a bill, rendered necessary in consequence of the legislature of Jamaica having refused,
under not very creditable circumstances, to enact a law which it had positively promised to
pass. Under these circumstances, considering that we are now approaching to within a couple
of years of the period when a new state of society is to be established in all the British
possessions where slavery has ever existed, I must say, I think parliament ought not to hesitate
about adopting some measure of the description now proposed, for the purpose of carrying into
full and complete execution the object which the imperial legislature had in view when the
emancipation act was passed. It appears to me, that if the legislatures of the colonies had
acted as sensible men ought to have done, in the circumstances in which they were placed four
years ago, they would have had before them, and the British parliament would have had before
it, a very different prospect from that which, I fear, exists at the present moment.

March 13, 1838.

Lord Melbourne's Government Inimical to the Church.

It appears that the policy of her majesty's government is--I will use the mildest term that
can be employed--not to encourage the established church. I am afraid that it will appear from
what passed in another place, in the last session of parliament, and even in this, that the
church of England--the established church of England--is not to be encouraged by her majesty's
government. I am sure that those who recollect what has occurred in parliament, during the
last few years, will admit that no great encouragement has been shown by ministers to the church
of Ireland, that branch of the established church of England which is stationed in the latter
country. I say therefore, my lords, that this is the policy of the government of this country;
and, I must own, also, it is most sincerely to be lamented by every friend of the constitution,
and of the peace, order, and happiness of the community.

March 30, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Free Press in Malta deprecated.

Now, in regard to this matter of a free press in Malta, I crave your lordships' attention to
the facts of the case for a moment, and I beg the house to bear them in mind. What is Malta?
It is a fortress and a seaport--it is a great naval and military arsenal for our shipping and
forces in the Mediterranean. We hold it by conquest. We hold it as an important post, as a
great military and naval arsenal, and as nothing more. My lords, if these are the facts, we
might as well think of planting a free press on the fore deck of the admiral's flag-ship in
the Mediterranean, or on the caverns of the batteries of Gibraltar, or in the camp of Sir John
Colborne in Canada, as of establishing it in Malta. A free press in Malta in the Italian language
is an absurdity. Of the hundred thousand individuals who compose the population of Malta, three-fourths
at least speak nothing but the Maltese dialect, and do not understand the Italian language.
Of the one hundred thousand inhabitants of the island, at least three-fourths can neither read
nor write. What advantages, then, can accrue to the people of Malta from the establishment
of a free press? We do not want to teach our English sailors and soldiers to understand Italian.
A free press will find no readers among them either. Who, then, is it for? These gentlemen
say, that, unless the government support a free press in Malta, it cannot exist of itself,
and they suggest an expense of £800 a year in its favour. They have done nothing more than
this that I am aware of since their appointment, and it is plain, that the savings spoken of
by the noble baron as having been effected by their recommendation are completely swallowed
up by the project of a free press. My lords, I cannot help thinking that it is wholly unnecessary
and greatly unbecoming of the government to form such an establishment, of such a description,
in such a place as Malta; and the more particularly, as the object for which it is made, must
be both of a dangerous tendency to this country, and fraught with evil to others. The free
press which they propose, is to be conducted, not by foreign Italians, but by Maltese, subjects
of her majesty, enjoying the same privileges as we do. Now, what does this mean? It means that
the licence to do wrong is unlimited. If it were conducted by foreign Italians, you could have
a check upon them if they acted in such a manner as would tend to compromise us with our neighbours--you
could send them out of the island--you could prevent their doing injury in that manner by various
ways. But here you have no such check--you have no check at all--your free press in that respect
is uncontrollable. If the free press chooses to preach up insurrection in Italy from its den
in Malta, you have no power of preventing it. Were the conductors foreign Italians you could
lay your hand on them at once, and dispose of them as aliens; but you cannot do that with the
Maltese subjects, enjoying the same right and possessing the same freedom as ourselves. I did
hope, that we should have been cured by this time of our experiments on exciting insurrection
in the other countries of Europe--in the dominions of neighbouring princes--in the territories
of our allies. I did think that we had received a sufficient lesson in these matters to last
us a long time, even for ever, in the results which have taken place through such interference
in Portugal, Spain, Italy--ay, and in Canada too--and that they had put an end to our dangerous
mania for exciting insurrection in foreign countries. Such, my lords, I assert is the object
of a free press in Malta--to excite insurrection in the dominions of our neighbour and ally,
the King of the Two Sicilies, and in the dominions of the King of Sardinia--and I confess that
I am ashamed of the government, considering the results that have taken place, from the doctrines
promulgated by it, that they have not done everything in their power to suppress instead of
encouraging and supporting it; and that they had not sent out their commissions with full power
to do so, rather than instructed them to call for its establishment.

May 3, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

State of Poverty in Ireland.

Of all the countries in Europe, Ireland is the one in which it has appeared to me to be least
possible to establish anything in the nature of the English poor-laws. The opinion delivered
by others has been, that there are no materials to be found in Ireland proper for forming,
or if formed for administering with salutary effect, any system of poor-laws such as exists
in this country; and I, my lords, believe that there is no doubt whatever of the justice and
truth of that opinion, considering the English poor-laws, as they formerly existed, and as
they were carried into execution up to the year 1834, when the noble lords opposite introduced
the measure which amended them. While, however, I say this, I am bound at the same time to
express my entire concurrence in the opinion declared by the noble viscount, that there never
was a country in which poverty existed to such a degree as it exists in that part of the United
Kingdom. My lords, I was in office in that country--I held a high situation in the administration
of the government of Ireland thirty years ago--and I must say, that from that time to this
there has scarcely elapsed a single year in which the government has not at certain periods
of it entertained the most serious apprehensions of actual famine. My lords, I am firmly convinced
that from the year 1806 down to the present time, a year has not passed in which the government
have not been called on to give assistance to relieve the poverty and distress which prevailed
in Ireland, and owing to circumstances over which no human power could have any control. One
of the circumstances which has most frequently led to this lamentable state of things, has
been the failure or delay of the potato crops, and there have been known times when two, three,
and even as many as four months have intervened before these crops, which are used as a subsistence
by the people, could be brought into the market; and such are the social relations in that
country, that the people have no means of coming to market to purchase like the people of England.
My lords, this is a fact that is undoubted, and one that I believe never existed in any country
in the world except Ireland.

May 21, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Numbers of a Meeting may render it Illegal.

The numbers of a meeting--that is to say, such an assembly of persons as would create terror
in the minds of people living in the neighbourhood,--would justify the magistrate in taking
measures to disperse it.

June 15, 1838.

Real cause of our interference in Spain.

The system of interference adopted by his late majesty's government, by means of the quadruple
treaty, was with a view to the contest between extreme opinions--it was more with a view of
aiding these extreme opinions, than to the arrangement of the mere differences between Don
Carlos, upon the one side, and the queen, or her daughter, upon the other; to support certain
opinions, and not to determine the succession, was the cause of interference. I regret interference
upon that ground; I object to interference upon that ground; and I say, moreover, that we were
not right in interfering upon that ground. I maintain that, more particularly on account of
the extreme opinions that prevailed, we ought not to have interfered at all; but most especially
we ought not, according to the common practice of this government, and in accordance with the
declared political principles of the noble lords themselves, to have interfered in a question
involving extreme political opinions. Now it has unfortunately happened that extreme political
principles have been forced upon a great part of Europe by means of large armies and of great
military forces, and it was consequently expected that the same thing would succeed in Spain.
This, I believe, was the object of our interference with Spain, and not to determine the Spanish
succession.

June 19, 1838.

We had no right to interfere against Don Carlos.

I say we had no business to interfere in the question of succession. There might have been
some pretext for interference in the question of succession, if any of the powers of Europe
had taken part with Don Carlos, but that was not the case. The noble baron (Lord Holland) cheers.
I say, confidently, that not one of the powers in Europe had stirred a finger in support of
the pretensions of Don Carlos. I say, then, that, according to all principles--the principles
supported and acted upon by this country, in the case of the house of Braganza, and many other
cases that I could mention--we ought to have avoided interference; and we ought to have avoided
interference by armies more particularly, in the contests in Spain. I say, my lords, that not
a sword had been moved in Europe in favour of Don Carlos. When Don Carlos went to Spain, in
the summer of 1834, there were not three battalions in arms in that country in his favour.
This I positively state as a fact. But, on the contrary, in the space of forty leagues there
were forty fortified posts in possession of the queen's troops. Now, my lords, this is a positive
fact; and I say that, in the year 1835, when the armistice was negotiated, when the exchange
of prisoners was negotiated by Lord Eliot, Don Carlos had then acquired a superiority over
the queen's forces, who were obliged to take up a position on the right of the Ebro. That is
to say, between the interval of time I have mentioned,--and this is a positive fact upon which
your lordships may rely, and to which I pledge my word,--between the summer of 1834 and the
period at which the exchange of prisoners was agreed upon in 1835,--that is, in the course
of a very few months,--the superiority had been gained by Don Carlos in that part of the country,
so far that he had forced the enemy to take up a position on the other side of the Ebro, abandoning
all their fortified posts, except Pampeluna and one other; and, I must add, they had very wisely
abandoned them, because they found they could not march to their relief through the country.
Now, my lords, this is literally and truly a fact; and it is a fact not to be forgotten, with
respect to the present contest in Spain. I say, then, that it was the business of this government
not to have interfered by force. We ought not to have done so, according to the noble marquis's
principle--that there ought to be no interference between two hostile parties in a nation like
Spain.

June 19, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Legion a failure.

The noble viscount has told your lordships, certainly, that he sent out an expedition; and
the noble marquis has informed us that it has always been the policy of this country to encourage
such expeditions. Now, without meaning to assert that the result of that expedition was a dire
catastrophe, I must be permitted to say that the legion has been, in my opinion and conviction,
a complete failure. It has cost the Spanish government an enormous sum of money. Great expectations
were raised respecting it, not one of which has been fulfilled. When the legion went to Spain,
the Queen of Spain's army was in all the provinces, with the exception of Biscay and Navarre.
Her government was established in all parts of Spain, excepting these places. Excepting them,
all other places might be said to be in a state of tranquillity. But it appears the Queen of
Spain could not carry on the war, unless she got ten thousand Isle of Dogsmen--a legion from
England, and another from France. If the Spanish government had asked for officers, or for
arms, or for money, or for artillery, I should not have been surprised, as I know well the
manner in which the Spanish arsenals are supplied. But asking for 10,000 men from England to
destroy Don Carlos, who was shut up in the mountains, was a matter really not to be seriously
thought of. The object was not to bring 10,000, or 15,000, or 20,000 men into action, but to
bring the red coats and the blue coats, the French and English troops, into the contest; that
was the object, and the view was, to produce a moral effect. But the government ought to have
known that that which gave them the influence on the one side, was fatal to that influence
on the other. Thus was an end put to that moral influence which this country could, and ought
to have exerted, but which can only be effectually exercised by strict adherence, throughout
all her proceedings, to the plain principles of justice. If this country enter into a treaty,
let her carry it honourably through; but let her not push her interference further than is
necessary for exerting her influence over both parties, in order to settle existing differences.
I have said that the legion was a failure. Of that there cannot be the slightest doubt. The
war is now in the same state as it was in the year 1835, except that Don Carlos has more men.

June 19, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Opposition should give aid to the Government when a war is inevitable.

The noble viscount tells us that we did not object to the appointment of the Earl of Durham
as governor-general of Canada--that we did not object to the powers confided to him; that we--referring
particularly to me--urged this government by all the means in their power to send out large
forces, and take care to be strong in that part of the world; advice which, I admit, I did
repeat over and over again, until I fatigued myself and the house by doing so. But why did
I not object to those powers being given to the Earl of Durham? Because, seeing the government
in difficulties--seeing the colony in a state of rebellion--and seeing that the government
possessed confidence in another place--I thought it was not my duty to excite opposition to
measures which they thought it might be proper to adopt; and therefore I took them all upon
their recommendation. Very possibly I was wrong in so doing; indeed, it appears that I was
wrong; but I took the course which I then considered it my duty to take. I declared that I
would not follow the example of those who, being convinced of the certainty that the country
would be involved in a war, yet thought proper to oppose all measures that were necessary for
carrying on that war. Neither would I deny assistance to those who were absent, and who were
carrying on the government to the best of their ability; but I would give the government a
fair support, in order to pacify a country which might be in a state of war or rebellion. That
was the course which I followed on the occasion alluded to by the noble viscount. With respect
to the Earl of Durham, I am personally unacquainted with him; and I considered that the noble
viscount and her majesty's government ought to have known best who was the person most qualified
to act as governor of Canada.

August 9, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lord Durham's Ordinance[20] a grossly illegal Act.

A grossly illegal act has been committed--not a mere technical error, or one having reference
to small or nice points of law, but an illegal act of great magnitude, and relating to points
of the most grave importance--an act so clearly illegal, that no man capable of understanding
the first principles of justice can doubt of its impropriety. It is impossible that the people
of this country can suffer any man to be driven into banishment without trial, or that they
can allow him, afterwards, to be condemned to death, without having been convicted of any crime
but that of returning to his own country.

[Footnote 20: The Earl of Durham, governor-general of the Canadas, had issued an ordinance,
transporting to Bermuda Dr. Nelson and seven others, guilty by confession of high treason,
and subjecting them to death if they returned to Canada. Lord Brougham, actuated, as was asserted
by some, by personal feeling against Lord Durham, protested against this act in the face of
the country. His speech on the occasion was one of the most powerful he ever delivered. It
is scarcely necessary to add that Lord Durham immediately and precipitately resigned his governorship.]

August 9, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

Inadequacy of our Navy.

There is nothing more certain than that, if you come to be entirely dependent for corn on the
countries bordering on the Baltic, you would have the King of Prussia and the Emperor of Russia
(as has been known before), levying a tax upon the exportation of that article of food to the
Thames, and elsewhere in this country. * * I entirely agree with the noble and learned lord
on the expediency of avoiding any interference with foreign powers on the subject of commercial
matters; but I confess that I cannot view the state of our commercial relations, and of our
position in the world generally, in connection with these commercial pursuits, with any degree
of unmixed satisfaction. On the contrary, I do deplore the state in which we find ourselves
placed in many parts of the world, particularly as it has been described in the course of the
evening by my noble friend (Viscount Strangford). What I attribute that state of our commercial
relations to, in a great degree, is, the extreme weakness and tottering condition of our naval
establishments. I do not mean to complain of the distribution of our naval establishments;
though, at the same time, I by no means intend to unsay what I have said in respect to the
expeditions to Spain, which I cannot approve of; but I repeat my expression that I consider
our naval establishments to be in too weak and tottering a condition to answer the purpose
for which they were intended, which was to give protection to the commercial interests of the
country in all parts of the world; for the commerce of England does extend to all parts of
the world. There is not a port, not a river, which is not visited by the ships of her majesty's
subjects; and her majesty's subjects have an undoubted right to protection in whatever part
of the world they may think proper to visit in the pursuits of commerce. The circumstance of
which I complain I do not at all attribute to neglect upon the part of the admiralty, neither
do I include in my censure the noble earl who is at the head of the admiralty; but those I
do blame are the individuals who have thought proper to reduce the establishments of the country
to such a degree, that protection cannot possibly be given in all places where it is required.

       *       *       *       *       *

I will remind your lordships that, since the peace, and particularly within the last twenty
years, three great navies have sprung up in Europe, which are four times as strong as they
were at any former period. Other navies, it is true, are put down; but we remain much the same.
A great deal has been said, by way of comparison, between the strength of our navy in 1792,
and in the years 1814 and 1815; but when we talk of strength in this case, we ought not to
look at the subject without adverting to the naval establishments of other powers. Now, although
our marine force should even be on the same footing as before, our commerce is not only tripled,
but extended to a degree ten times greater than it ever was before; and there is not a part
of the earth, from one pole to the other, in which the protection of our navy is not required
for our commerce. I must say that, if we should at any time incur the misfortune of being involved
in another war--which God forbid!--the only mode of keeping out of the difficulty would be
to maintain such a navy as would give protection to her majesty's subjects in all parts of
the globe.

August 14, 1838.

       *       *       *       *       *

Neutrality of Belgium.

I hope that it never may be lost sight of in this country, that the original foundation of
the independence of Belgium, as a separate kingdom, was this condition, namely, its perpetual
neutrality. That condition I consider to have been the foundation of that transaction, and
I hope that this will never be forgotten by this country, or by Europe.

February 5, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Aggressions on Canada from the United States.

I must say I should very much wish to see suitable measures adopted to carry into execution
the intentions which her majesty declares in her speech, of maintaining her rights of sovereignty
over Canada. The system of levying private war which prevails on that continent is not wholly
unknown in other parts of the world. I have read of it as existing in the deserts of Central
Asia; I have heard of its being practised, as a system, by the Asiatics on the frontiers of
the Russian monarchy, where a perpetual warfare is going on between those tribes and the troops
sent to repress their inroads--a warfare that has been waged in those countries from century
to century. We read also of circumstances of the same kind occurring in Africa--of wars carried
on by barbarous tribes against the possessions of the British government in Africa, the contests
of savages against a civilized people. But this is a war carried on by a nation supposed to
be considerably advanced in the scale of civilization--by men governing themselves, electing
their servants by ballot and general suffrage, and living under institutions of that description.
Yet these are the very men who come in at night, and with fire and torch destroy the property
of her majesty's subjects, for no reason whatever except that they obey her majesty's laws,
and carry into effect her royal commands. Of such a system of warfare there are, I believe,
no examples, except, as I have stated, among the most lawless of the barbarous tribes of the
East and of Africa. It is quite out of the question that her majesty's loyal subjects, invited
to their habitations, and fixed in them, by her majesty's authority and that of her predecessors,
should not endeavour to retaliate the sufferings thus inflicted upon them, unless protected
by the strong arm of government; but how can government protect them, except by taking strong
measures, when these persons are found invading her majesty's dominions for the purpose of
plundering and destroying the property of her majesty's subjects, to intercept them in their
retreat, to take them prisoners, and punish them according to the laws of the country they
have insulted?

       *       *       *       *       *

There can be no doubt a civil government in any country is capable of preventing the collection
of a body of troops, and the invasion of the territory of a neighbouring power. A body of "sympathisers"
has been organised in the States to carry on the plan of invasion; and are we to sit down quietly
and pass unnoticed this unwarrantable interference?

February 5, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Agitation by Authority.

I now come to the last paragraph of the speech, in which her majesty complains, that she has
observed with pain the efforts which have been made, in some parts of the country, to excite
her subjects to disobedience and resistance to the law, and to recommend dangerous and illegal
acts. Now, I really think that this affecting paragraph cannot have raised very pleasant reflections
in the breasts of many noble lords who are in the habit of supporting her majesty's ministers.
It is but too true that various persons have endeavoured to excite her majesty's subjects to
resist the law; but I am afraid much of this spirit may be traced to what has taken place in
this house on former occasions. I have heard persons, charged with the highest employments
of government, insisting upon the rights of this people to assemble for the expression of their
sentiments, declaiming against any restriction on that right, and preaching upon this doctrine
without restricting it in the manner declared by law--namely, that these assemblies must not
be in numbers sufficient to create alarm. It was but very lately that a great officer of state,
travelling about the country, made a speech to the same purport at Liverpool, and stated those
opinions in the most unreserved manner, at the very moment when men were assembling by torch-light
meetings. We have heard for a number of years past of the extraordinary tranquillity of Ireland,
and as often as I have listened to the phrase, I have protested against it; but there is a
gentleman, high in the confidence of government, who goes about devising new modes of agitation
every day. That gentleman ought to have a special copy of the speech sent to him! One time
he talks of raising 2,000,000 of men--at another time of a fund of 20,000 l. sterling, which
is deposited in his private bank, and ultimately to be deposited in his private pocket. In
order to further his new schemes of agitation, that gentleman has declared his intention of
raising 60,000 fighting men for her majesty, though he has never, that I am aware of, been
employed as a recruiting officer. Sometimes these boasts do not turn out to be true; but if
not 60,000 persons, there may be 6,000, or some force of that description, which would be a
serious inconvenience to the government.

February 5, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Folly of carrying on war with a peace establishment.

This country is at war--at war in two quarters of the world--at war in America and at war in
Asia; and what I say is this, that when a country is at war, I understand that the fleet of
that country should be put upon a war establishment; whereas, these returns are made on a peace
establishment--nay, I believe on one much lower,--on a reduced peace establishment; and yet
we are pretending to carry on war in two countries of the world with such means! I warned your
lordships a year and a half ago--indeed nearly two years ago, against any such attempt. I believe
that we have been feeling the inconvenience of such an attempt from that period up to the present
time, and I only hope and trust in God, that we shall not experience still further inconvenience
and disasters from our perseverance in it. A peace establishment, and a reduced peace establishment,
may be very fit and very proper for carrying on the service of the country in time of peace;
but when we come to carry on war, our peace establishment is not found equal to the performance
of the duties required from the establishment in time of peace, and still less to those extended
duties which must be performed in time of war.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are carrying on a war in North America, and a most expensive war in Asia; and both of them
require all the force this country can employ in order to bring them to an early and an honourable
termination. We are, however, engaging in both with a reduced peace establishment, and we are
incurring all descriptions of risks, in every other part of the world, in order to do this.
The noble earl (Minto) has been talking about a few masts and sails, when the whole force which
the country can command ought to be engaged in the war now waging, in order to bring the contest
to the honourable termination I speak of. I said this about a year and a half ago, and I now
repeat it.

March 7, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Corn Laws have improved Agriculture.

The system which it is the object of the existing law to establish, is one of encouragement
to agriculture--a system which was established at the termination of the last century, and
under which I will venture to assert, the agriculture of this country has made a progress,
and has risen to a degree of superiority throughout these kingdoms, greater than exists in
any other part of the world, not excepting even the Netherlands. Under this system of encouragement
to agriculture, large sums of money have been laid out and invested in land, and property relating
to land; and great sums are at this moment in the course of investment in the same way; and
I call on your lordships not to agree to any resolution, or to any measure of the government
(if they should think proper to propose any such measure), which will have the effect of withdrawing
from agriculture this protection, and thus putting a stop to those great improvements which
are at present in progress, and which, I say, have had such an influence on agriculture, that
the amount of produce raised in this country is thereby greatly increased. I believe that the
produce of the country has been immensely increased, and particularly in the valuable article
of wheat, the annual production of which is now nearly equal to its greatest annual consumption.
Such is the supply of wheat that the very lowest order of the people subsist mostly upon it;
which is not, I believe, the practice in any other country. The practice is not known any where
else; it is not known in France; it is not known in Germany; it is not known in the Netherlands;
nor is it, in short, the case any where else. In fact, the lower orders live upon wheaten bread
in no country of the world except England. I entreat your lordships to bear this in mind; I
entreat you not to break down a system which has carried cultivation to such a pitch, that
an amount of produce is raised in England, alone, which is found to be nearly equal to her
greatest annual consumption. I think the annual amount of produce will increase. This is my
firm belief; and I am confident that with the increase of produce there must come, and come
naturally too, a corresponding decrease of price; and it is to that consequence that I look
as being the solution of all the difficulties which at present attend this question. But, let
your lordships recollect, it is absolutely necessary to keep up this encouragement in order
to arrive at the desired result of the reduction of price. Very lately, when wheat in this
country was at 78s. the quarter, and the duty on importation was a merely nominal one of 1s.
a quarter, was there any such quantity of foreign wheat introduced as was sufficient to lower
the price? Not at all. The moment the ports were opened, the merchant importer stood on the
same ground as the farmer, and he would not sell his corn for 1s. less than the price of the
day. Did we ever hear of corn coming in from abroad, and being brought to market at a cheaper
rate than it was selling for in this country? Never. But look to the operation of the law prevailing
in the former part of the war; the prices varied from 70s. to 150s. the quarter. Did we ever
hear of foreign corn being sold for 1s. less than what could be got for it in the general markets
of this country? It must be sold by the merchant importer at the very same price as by the
farmer. It is all very fine to say that the price would be exceedingly low, if these laws were
abolished, and corn were allowed to be introduced without restriction. Why, if the price of
corn raised in this country were low, the foreigner could not get more for his corn here, than
the farmer; but if the price of home grown corn were necessarily high, the introduction of
foreign corn would not reduce it.

March 14, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Repeal of the Corn Laws will raise the price of Corn.

It is very important to look at this question with reference to the interests of the commerce
of the country, and also to consider the effect of the abolition of the corn laws on the price
of provisions and on the price of manufactures. Now, if we discourage agriculture to such a
degree that any large body of persons and a great amount of capital come to be withdrawn from
it, the price of native produce must rise; there would be so much less produce raised than
before, that its price--the price of the native produce I mean--must rise. Now, the price of
the corn imported will be the price of the diminished quantity of the home-raised corn. Would
the manufacturing labourer benefit by this? Would the manufacturer find any advantage in it,
when the diminished value of their wages was forcing the labourers to raise the market upon
him? Would the merchant exporter gain anything by the change? Would it not be found that, in
proportion as the manufacturer must pay a larger amount of wages, the prices of his manufactures
must be augmented; and therefore the disadvantages of competition with merchants abroad be
augmented likewise?

March 14, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Foreign Governments would Tax the Export of their Corn.

There is another view of the question which I beseech your lordships to take--I mean the question
of our dependence on foreign produce for a great part of our annual consumption, which would
be caused by the abolition of the present law. On looking over the papers which have been produced
on former discussions of this subject, I have seen proofs that in certain countries duties
are paid upon the exportation of corn thence hither; and that statements are made by the sovereigns
of those countries to this effect:--"As the corn is wanted by Great Britain, and her subjects
can afford to pay the duty, therefore they shall pay it." This duty must come out of the pocket
of her majesty's subjects, and be taken into account in the price of the goods of the manufacturers.
Your lordships have heard a great deal upon the competition of foreign manufacturers with our
own in foreign markets. I certainly am one who does not despise the consideration of these
subjects; which, on the contrary, I think of very high importance; but this question is a large
one, and it is necessary to consider it on rather broader grounds. This very consideration
may be material with respect to some countries of which we have been the creditors; but I do
not see how our relations with those which are not corn countries can be affected by any change
in the corn laws. The power of taxation, which would be thrown into the hands of foreign powers,
in the event of the repeal of the corn laws, constitutes, in my view, a most important feature
of the case. Suppose we were involved in an arduous competition with Prussian or Russian manufacturers
for the supply of a particular article: if we should make up our minds to rely solely on those
countries for a supply of corn, as we are called upon to do by the opponents of the corn laws,--and
if the success of our manufactures depends on the abundance and cheapness of corn among our
population--must we not expect, according to the usual course of such affairs among mankind,
that the corn exported from those countries would be taxed so as to render the food of our
manufacturers as dear as it would be under any other circumstances? If that is likely to be
the case, I would strongly advise you, my lords, to agree to no measure which may render this
country dependent upon others for its supply of food. Let us persevere in those measures which
have been successful in raising the agriculture of this country and increasing its produce;
let us increase its produce to the utmost possible degree, and render all the articles of food
as cheap as possible; and then let us see what can be done with reference to commerce and its
interests; but let us, I entreat, begin by securing to her majesty's subjects a supply of the
best food from the produce of her majesty's own dominions.

March 14, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

As a public man, stands on public grounds.

The noble earl (Radnor) says that I am an advocate for a monopoly; and he talks about my not
assisting the landlords, not assisting the farmers, and not assisting the labourers. My lords,
I know nothing about landlords, farmers, or labourers, when I am advocating a legislative question
of a public nature in this house. I have nothing to say to them any farther than as their interests
are identified with those of the community at large. I beg the noble lord to understand, when
I come into this house, I come here upon the public interest. I have no more to say to landlords,
farmers, or labourers, than the noble earl himself; and I am thoroughly convinced there is
not a noble friend near me who does not look at this question solely on public grounds, and
those which he conceives it to be for the interest of the country to take.

March 14, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Objections to a free press in Malta.

I am one of those who have always thought, that if there existed any part of her majesty's
dominions in which a free press was not necessary, Malta was that part. Our business there
is to maintain a garrison and a great naval station. Malta contains a population of 100,000
persons, for whom I entertain the highest respect and regard, being convinced that her majesty
has no better or more devoted subjects than they are. It is the duty of government, and the
duty of this house, as far as it can, to superintend the good government of the people of Malta--a
people who talk the Maltese language, and the Maltese language alone--a people, of whom not
one in 500 can read a line. Surely, of all the institutions of this country which are the least
necessary for men of this description, and I declare my belief that it is a true description
of the people of Malta, I may venture to assert a free press is that one institution. I will
not dispute that hereafter much good may arise from a free press, but education is much more
necessary for the people of Malta. A free press cannot be rendered useful to them, much less
advantageous, without that training which they require, and that education which ought to be
given to them. There is a certain liberal set of gentlemen in this country who think a free
press in Malta exceedingly desirable, not for the sake of any advantage to the inhabitants,
but for the sake of the advantage to be produced on the neighbouring coast of France, and Spain,
and Italy. This is the truth with respect to this free press. * * I believe that we have now
had enough of private wars, and I believe that we now seek what advantage it would have been,
if we had never undertaken those private wars, not only in other parts of the world, but also
a little nearer home. I must say that the objects of them are inconsistent with the interests--aye,
and inconsistent with the honour--of this country; inconsistent with the interests of the country,
because, as I always have maintained, and always shall maintain, the interests of this country
must depend, not only on the maintenance of peace for itself, but on its preventing, if possible,
disturbances among other nations; and inconsistent with its honour, because I will say, that
its honour does depend on not exciting rebellions and insurrections in other nations, at the
same moment that the government here is ostensibly at peace with those nations. Now, that is
the ground on which I have always objected to a free press in Malta. I object to it, because
I contend that the intention entertained is to have a free press, not for Malta, but for the
neighbouring regions of Italy, France, and Spain; and if you must have a free press for the
Maltese, in the name of God let it be in the Maltese language!

April 30, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Malta. Its riches and resources.

I have reason to know something of Malta; I know something of its resources; and, instead of
its being misgoverned, I can only say that in the course of my intercourse with that island,
I was astonished at the immensity of its resources of all descriptions, and at the readiness
with which these resources were afforded to his majesty's troops and armies, in order to enable
them to carry on war against an enemy. It is but an act of justice to those noble and honourable
persons who have governed Malta, to say thus much; and I must add that, having known that island
for a period of nearly twenty years, I really believe that, on the face of the globe there
is not a place of the same extent and population which possesses one thousandth part of its
riches and resources of all descriptions.

April 30, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Indifference to Reports.

I have served the sovereigns and the public of this country for fifty years, and throughout
the whole of that period I have been exposed to evil report and to good report, and I have
still continued to serve on through all report, both good and evil, and thus I confess myself
to be completely indifferent to the nature of all reports.

May 14, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Personal Attendants of the Sovereign. Their Political Influence.

When the noble viscount announced in this house on Tuesday last that he had resigned his office,
the probable consequences of that announcement occurred to my mind, and I turned my attention
in consequence to the state of the government at the present moment--to the state of the royal
authority--to the composition of the royal household--and to all those circumstances which
were likely to come under my consideration, in case I were called upon to assist in advising
the composition of another administration. I confess, that it appeared to me impossible that
any set of men should take charge of her majesty's government without having the usual influence
and control over the establishment of the royal household--that influence and control which
their immediate predecessors in office had exercised before them. As the royal household was
formed by their predecessors in office, the possession of that influence and that control over
it appeared to me to be absolutely necessary, to let the public see that the ministers who
were about to enter upon office had and possessed the entire confidence of her majesty. I considered
well the nature of the formation of the royal household under the civil list act passed at
the commencement of her majesty's reign. I considered well the difference between the household
of a queen-consort and the household of a queen-regnant. The queen-consort not being a political
person in the same light as a queen-regnant, I considered the construction of her majesty's
household--I considered who filled offices in it--I considered all the circumstances attendant
on the influence of the household, and the degree of confidence which it might be necessary
for the government to repose in the members of it. I was sensible of the serious and anxious
nature of the charge which the minister in possession of that control and influence over her
majesty's household would have laid upon him. I was sensible that in everything which he did,
and in every step which he took as to the household, he ought to consult not only the honour
of her majesty's crown, and her royal state and dignity, but also her social condition, her
ease, her convenience, her comfort--in short, everything which tended to the solace and happiness
of her life. I reflected on all these considerations as particularly incumbent on the ministers
who should take charge of the affairs of this country; I reflected on the age, the sex, the
situation, and the comparative inexperience, of the sovereign on the throne; and I must say
that if I had been, or if I was to be, the first person to be consulted, with respect to the
exercise of the influence and control in question, I would suffer any inconvenience whatever,
rather than take any step as to the royal household which was not compatible with her majesty's
comforts.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot but think that the principles on which we proposed to act with respect to the ladies
of the bed-chamber, in the case of a queen-regnant, were the correct principles. The public
will not believe that the queen holds no political conversation with those ladies, and that
political influence is not exercised by them, particularly considering who those persons are
who hold such situations. I believe the history of this country affords a number of instances
in which secret and improper influence has been exercised by means of such conversations. I
have, my lords, a somewhat strong opinion on this subject. I have unworthily filled the office
which the noble viscount now so worthily holds; and I must say I have felt the inconvenience
of an anomalous influence, not exercised, perhaps, by ladies, but anomalous influence, undoubtedly,
of this description, and exerted simply in conversations; and I will tell the noble viscount
that the country is at this moment suffering some inconvenience from the exercise of that very
secret influence.

May 14, 1839.

A war carried on by militia, volunteers, and troops of that description, will infallibly be
carried on after the manner of civil wars.

May 30, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reasons for passing the Poor Law.

I have been long enough in parliament to recollect that, before the present law passed, there
were not less than half-a-dozen attempts made, by some of the greatest men this country ever
produced, to amend the system of the poor laws. Among others, the late Mr. Pitt endeavoured
to amend these laws, but failed, and for a reason which I believe occasioned the failure of
every attempt to alter them until that which was successfully made within these five years,
when the present poor law amendment act was passed, principally by the exertions of the noble
and learned lord (Lord Brougham). The real truth of the matter was this--that in every parish
in the country there existed some abuses, I will venture to say a hundred times greater than
any of those with which the noble earl (Stanhope) entertains your lordships upon every vacant
day that presents itself. In every parish, I repeat, there were abuses; and, in each, abuses
founded upon a different principle from those existing in some neighbouring parish; so that
no law could be devised to remedy them; for the measure which would apply to parish A, instead
of removing the abuses existing in parish B, would only have tended to aggravate and render
them intolerable. At length, there was a very general and searching inquiry into the whole
state of the administration of the poor laws; the result of which was, that the present measure
was arranged and produced to parliament. It passed both houses in a very short space of time,
and, I believe, on the principle there was no division whatever, and hardly a difference of
opinion, in this house; I believe there was none in the other house of parliament, and very
little difference of opinion was expressed upon any part of the details. With respect to the
administration of the law, I have observed it in different parts of the country, and I must
say that its administration has been entirely satisfactory, and most particularly to those
parties who are likely to become its more immediate objects. That part of the law of which
the noble earl complains most, namely, the existence of the poor law commissioners, is, in
my opinion, the most important part of it. The truth of the matter is, that the abuses in the
administration of the poor laws were so numerous, so various, and, at the same time, so inveterate,
that it was absolutely impossible to get the better of them, without the constitution of some
central authority which should superintend the execution of the law; taking care that it was
duly administered, and that those intrusted with its execution in the country did not infringe
upon its provisions. Such, I believe, was the object of the institution of those boards of
guardians and commissioners.

June 18, 1839.

The Ballot and Universal Suffrage dangerous. Open questions a symptom of weakness in a Government.

I fully concur with the noble viscount (Melbourne) in the propriety of opposing the further
extension of the suffrage, and upon the very same ground, namely, that such extension would
be inconsistent with the best interests of the country. I likewise concur in the sentiments
which that noble viscount has expressed upon the subject of the ballot; that obnoxious, and,
I must say, un-English measure; at the same time I deeply regret that the noble viscount did
think proper to make it what is called an open question. I had the misfortune to be in office
when there were such questions, and I must say, that I never could consider them as anything
but a symptom of weakness on the part of those who were carrying on the service of their sovereign--a
symptom that they were not acting together, that they did not agree amongst themselves, and
that there was a division also amongst their supporters. Instead of its being a matter of satisfaction
that an individual question like the ballot should be left an open question, I regard it as
a circumstance most likely to prove disastrous to the government, and eventually so to the country.

June 25, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Birmingham Riots in 1839. The town treated worse than if taken by storm.

I have been accused of "exaggeration."[21] That may be a parliamentary phrase; I will not presume
to decide that it is an unparliamentary term; but I believe that it is a term not much used
amongst gentlemen. It has been employed, however, in a privileged place, that must be nameless,
and I shall advert to it no farther than to notice the conclusions which may be drawn from
the use of such a term in reference to what I did say. I trust your lordships will excuse me
for a few moments upon this subject, because I really think I have been most unjustifiably
made the subject of a personal attack for what I stated in this, your lordships' house, with
respect to the late riots in Birmingham. What I stated, my lords, was founded on the same species
of information which, it appears, was in the possession of her majesty's government; for, neither
the noble viscount, nor any of the other noble lords opposite, knew any more of the subject
than I did; they knew nothing beyond what they had seen in the newspapers; and I stated, at
the time, that I knew nothing beyond that, myself, with regard to the facts. But I compared
the transactions at Birmingham with certain other transactions, of which, certainly, I have
more knowledge than most noble lords in this house; matters on which I had a certain and positive
knowledge; and I said (and I firmly believe that it was correct, and that, in making the comparison
I did not, in the least degree, depart from the truth), that the peaceable inhabitants of the
town of Birmingham were worse treated, upon that occasion, than the inhabitants of any town
I had ever known or seen taken by assault. This is what I asserted; and, it is the fact, according
to my opinion.

[Footnote 21: A member of the House of Commons had used this term as applied to the Duke's
remarks on this subject, a few nights previously.] * * * * *

I cannot help thinking that it is extraordinary that, in the year 1839, after nine years of
liberal government,--after nine years' enjoyment of the blessings of liberal government,--your
lordships should be discussing whether or not the amount of destruction completed within a
peaceful town within her majesty's dominions is equal to the mischief done to a town which
is taken by storm. And yet this has been clearly demonstrated to be the case. It is clear,
my lords, that in peaceful, happy England, which carried on a war for twenty-two years, and
which made the most extraordinary efforts to maintain that war, as she did, with circumstances
of glory and success attending her arms in all parts of the world,--in order to avoid as it
was hoped, these miseries, and so that no such disasters as these might ever approach her shores,--in
this same happy and peaceful England, after nine years of liberal government, here is a town
plundered, and its peace destroyed; and yet I am accused of exaggeration, because I say I never
knew any town, taken by storm, to be so ill-used as this fine town has been. I confess I am
not at all surprised, however, at the conduct of the noble lord who so liberally applied the
term "exaggeration" to what I said, when I reflect who are the followers and supporters of
that noble lord.

July 22, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Legal redress against Magistrates.

I apprehend that, according to the law of England, any individual is at liberty to complain
of the conduct of a magistrate, and proceed against him in a court of law. No one has ever
doubted that, in this country, every individual has a right so to complain of, and to proceed
against, the magistrates, when the magistrates misconduct themselves. It is in accordance only
with the Code Napoléon,--with the code of laws of that high priest of liberalism, the Emperor
Napoleon,--that the consent of the council of state should be given, before a justice misconducting
himself can be tried and punished. Hitherto, in this country, the practice and the law have
been different on that head; and I hope we shall hear no more of such proceedings. But follow
out the system laid down in the letter from the Home Office, and the result will be that no
man--- particularly if he have to complain of the conduct of a magistrate--will, without the
consent of the home secretary, go into a court of justice to obtain redress. My lords, to such
a course I trust I shall see some check put, before it is further established by precedents.

July 22,1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reasons for Supporting the Penny Postage Bill.

In the preamble of this bill, it is stated to have for its object the establishment, in this
country, of a low and uniform rate of postage. I admit the truth of the arguments stated by
the noble viscount upon the expediency, and, indeed, the necessity, of establishing an uniform
and low rate of postage in this country. These arguments have been urged more than once by
my noble friend near me (Lord Ashburton), and by the noble duke who heretofore filled the office
of postmaster general, but whom I do not see in his place this evening. If, however, the object
be only to reduce the expense of postage, and to establish an uniform rate, I imagine that
the power of the government is already sufficient for such a purpose, although the power was
not granted for that immediate object; but the object with which the power was given was, for
the purpose of enabling the government to adopt that particular plan which is called Mr. Rowland
Hill's plan, and which, I am certainly disposed to admit, was, of all plans, if adopted exactly
as Mr. Hill proposed it, the most likely to be successful. At the same time, I must say, I
am afraid the present plan will not be entirely successful. I think, in the first place, that
a great mistake is committed, in the assumption that the reduction in the rate of postage down
to a penny, even to be paid on the delivery of the letter, would induce any very considerable
increase of literary correspondence. I possessed, for many years, an extensive knowledge of
the degree of advantage attendant upon such a system in the army; and I can safely assert to
your lordships, that it is quite curious to remark how small an amount of correspondence is
carried on by soldiers, notwithstanding they enjoy the utmost facility for doing so. One remarkable
instance I will mention, just to show that it is not quite certain that a large increase of
correspondence will take place in consequence of the rate of postage being reduced to a penny.
In the case of a highland regiment, it was positively ascertained that, in the course of six
or seven months, only sixty-three or sixty-four letters were written. Now this is a fact on
which reliance can be placed; and it certainly demonstrates that the people of this country
are not so ready to correspond, as some suppose, even when they can send letters at the rate
of a penny for the postage. I would beg your lordships to observe just one point touching the
application of this plan to the country parts of England. It is perfectly well known to you
that the post-office is frequently six or seven miles, and sometimes ten or fifteen miles,
from most of the houses and villages in the neighbourhood. Now, if a man have to take a letter
to the post-office, he may lose half a day's work in going there; and it cannot be supposed
that he would make such a sacrifice merely because he would only be charged a penny on the
delivery of his letter. Then, again, let us look at the manner in which the plan will work
in large towns. The plan will, no doubt, work beneficially in London. In London, there are
a number of people employed for the purpose of delivering letters in all parts of the town
several times in the course of the day. But let us take such towns as Manchester, or Leeds,
or Liverpool; the people cannot resort to one post-office, and post-offices must therefore
be established in different parts of the town for their accommodation; and the consequence
will be, a vast increase in the establishment of the post-office,--of which increase, I do
not think sufficient notice has been taken in the documents which I have perused. Upon the
whole, then, I am very much afraid that this scheme for a low and uniform rate of postage wilt
be found impracticable on account of the expense, and, also, from the small amount of profit
which will accrue from the carriage of the letters.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the time this subject was first mentioned in this house, and, indeed, in the other house
of parliament, the noble viscount said that his main object would he to secure the revenue;
and I certainly apprehended that the noble viscount would not adopt this plan, unless he could
see some security for the revenue; and this was the language held, also, in the other house
of parliament, I understand. It seems now, however, that we have got no security for the revenue.

       *       *       *       *       *

But my lords, notwithstanding I feel so little confidence in this measure, and notwithstanding
that I must continue to lament that it should ever have been adopted, when all the circumstances
of the present times are considered,--I, nevertheless, earnestly recommend you to pass it.
It is a measure which has been most anxiously looked forward to by the country; at the same
time that it is one as to which there has been much doubt: but your lordships should bear in
mind, that there is not one clause of this bill upon which you can make an amendment, or in
which you can give a vote, except in the negative or the affirmative, without committing a
breach of those conventional rules which have been established for the conduct of the business
between you and the House of Commons. On the other hand, my lords, suppose you were to reject
this bill;--the government, supported by the other house, would have the power to destroy the
whole revenue of the post-office; so that all the evil which this bill could do to the revenue,
and which it is your object to save, might still be done;--and seeing that, at the same time,
the measure of post-office administration, which it is the object of this bill to effect, and
which it is desired should be carried into execution, must altogether lie over, unless you
agree to some such measure as this;--I say, my lords, under these circumstances, I intend,
though with pain and reluctance, to vote for the bill; and I earnestly recommend your lordships
to adopt it.

August 5, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Danger of interfering with the Religion of the Hindoos.

My lords, I served in India for a considerable length of time; but I never saw--I never heard
of--anything so revolting in the religious ceremonies of the natives as has been described
by the noble duke and by the right reverend prelate. The whole army, while I was in India,
except about 50,000 men, consisted of idolaters; but they were as good soldiers as could be
found anywhere. They performed, in the best manner, any service that was required of them;
and certainly, at that time, the object of the government, and of every man in the service
of the government, was to avoid, not only interference, but even the semblance of any interference,
in any manner, in the idolatrous rites and ceremonies of the country. I have not read one of
the dispatches which have been alluded to; and I must say that I have seen too much, in my
own experience, to encourage the practice of encouraging documents of this description. I beg
your lordships to recollect, that with the exception of about 20,000 of her majesty's troops,
and, with the exception of the civil servants of the government, and the few European residents
in the country, there is not a man in India who is not an idolater, to manage the affairs of
that most extensive and important empire. I would entreat your lordships never to lose sight
of that fact. I know, too, from experience, for I have seen the missionaries at work, the little
progress which they make; and I know at the same time that their labours create a good deal
of jealousy. I warn the government not to go too far in their measures against the idolatry
of India; for the Indian empire is one of great importance, and they must not expect to convert
100,000,000 of idolaters to our holy religion by the small means at their disposal.

August 13, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Never said one thing and meant another.

I will not make any professions of my own anxiety to put down the slave trade. I have passed
a long life, I trust with honour, in the service of her majesty's predecessors. I served her
majesty's predecessors in diplomatic situations and in councils, as well as in the army, and
I believe people cannot accuse me of saying one thing and meaning another.

August 19, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Impotent Colonial Administration of the Whigs.

We have sacrificed 20,000,000 l. of money to terminate slavery in the British colonies; and
we are now calling upon other nations--upon the United States, upon Spain, upon the Brazils,
and upon various powers which possess slaves--to imitate and to follow our example; but what
have we done to secure the co-operation of those great countries in the great object that we
have in view? We have offered no inducement to those nations to imitate our example, by the
establishment of order and good government in our West Indian colonies; for nowhere have we
properly or adequately availed ourselves of those advantages which we have, or of those advantages
which we might procure, to give security to life and property in those islands, and to maintain
peace and tranquillity among their inhabitants. The communities in the West Indies are all
small societies; and there is not a man in any one of them, not in Jamaica, even, which is
the largest of them, who is not within the reach of authority. The government of each of those
islands is strong in the means of exercising authority--strong in garrisons, strong in troops,
strong in a police force, and in everything necessary for the preservation of life and property,
for carrying the laws into execution, and for affording security to every individual, even
to the very lowest of the people;--but yet, I will venture to say, since the enactment of the
law for the emancipation of the slaves, there have been and are no societies, in the whole
world, in such a state of disorganization, disorder, and anarchy, as are those very West Indian
islands of ours; but which, if they were well managed and governed by the noble lord, nominally
at the head of the colonial department, instead of by the different factions that resort thither
to interfere with the business of that government, ought, and are calculated, to be of the
greatest advantage to this nation. There are no societies in the world more capable of being
well governed, than those islands are, if the noble lord opposite would only perform his duty
in an independent manner, and keep all factions at a distance, instead of allowing every faction
in this country to interfere, on all occasions, with the business of the government in relation
to those colonies. But this is not all; let your lordships look round in all directions, and
you will see the same lamentable state of things existing. Look at Lower Canada, look at Upper
Canada, at Newfoundland--look where you will, you will see nothing but disorder and anarchy--and
resulting from what? from nothing but the interference of factions in England; who, let your
lordships recollect, have nothing to do with those colonies. These disorders result solely
from the interference of those factions in the affairs of each of those colonies; and till
the government shall put an end to such interference, and act altogether independently of it,
it is impossible to hope for a restoration of tranquillity.

August 23, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Melbourne Administration no Government.

I can assure the noble viscount, (Palmerston) that all I desire--and all I have desired for
some years past--is this,--to see a "government" in the country. To see the country "governed."
I wish that I could say that I had seen it "governed" for some years past; and I hope that
the noble viscount will now turn over a new leaf, and "govern" the country a little better
than he has done heretofore. I may tell the noble viscount, that I have had some little experience
in these matters myself; and I humbly suggest to the noble viscount, that, before he announces
measures to parliament through the speech from the throne, in future, he should first take
care that those measures have already been properly considered; and that, before he inserts
them in her majesty's speech, he should have them ready prepared, or in such a state of preparation
as to be able to introduce them to parliament immediately after the speech from the throne.
If he do thus, the measures in all probability, will be in such a state that they may be passed,
or, at all events, they will not be scrambled for among partisans and factions in parliament:
they will then, most likely, be considered by men who, I consider, from their official station,
must be capable of deciding upon them; they will be their measures, and not the measures of
factions and parties; or, at least, they will not be measures presented to parliament in such
a state as that they ought not to pass. But I have desired to see a "government" in the country,
for many other reasons besides those which are referable to the state and manner in which measures
have been brought forward, after having been announced to parliament in the speech from the
throne. I desire to have a "government" in this country, because I am anxious to see our colonies
settled and governed--because I wish to see the interior of the country settled and governed
as it ought to be governed--and because I wish to see all our establishments fixed and protected
in that form and state in which they are to remain.

August 23, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Causes of the Weakness of the Melbourne Administration.

The noble viscount has been pleased to attribute the disturbances in the country, at the present
moment, to the opposition which, he says, has been given by your lordships to the measures
brought forward for the redress of grievances. Now I did not like to interrupt the noble viscount,
when he was addressing your lordships; but I certainly felt much disposed to call upon the
noble viscount to name what the measures were, to which he so alluded. I have been trying,
ever since the noble viscount spoke, to recollect what those measures could be; and I declare
that, with respect to England, particularly, I do not know of a single measure which has been
discussed in this house, and rejected by your lordships, that would with any degree of propriety,
be called a measure for the redress of the grievances of the people. If there be such measures,
let the noble viscount bring them forward again next session, and I am sure they will receive
from your lordships every attention. But, my lords, I have taken another view of the cause
of the disturbances which now exist in the country. I think they have arisen from a very peculiar
state of circumstances; and I will venture to submit them to the noble viscount, in answer
to that part of his speech, in which he was kind enough to attribute those disturbances to
the House of Lords. I believe that they have originated in the unnoticed and unpunished combinations
which have been allowed by the government during so many years, to exist,--whether as political
unions or as trade unions, or as other combinations,--clearly illegal combinations,--amongst
workmen, to force others to abandon their work, by those who work at prices different from
those at which they are content to be employed, and at which they have agreed to work for their
employers. These combinations have gone so far in some parts of the country,--and more particularly
in the north of England, and, indeed, throughout almost the whole of the northern part of the
island,--as to threaten destruction to the trade and credit of the manufacturers; and at last
they have arrived at that pitch, and have spread to that extent, that the country is brought
to the situation in which we see it at the present moment. For, after all, what are these Chartists,
that are found marching about the country, and engaged in the disturbances that prevail? I
have inquired a great deal into the subject, and the result is, that I believe they are nothing
more nor less than persons combined together for the purpose of driving other workmen--engaged,
whether in manufactures, in the collieries, or agricultural pursuits, or in other districts--from
their work; and for the purpose of destroying the machinery, and the buildings, and of interfering
with the capital of the employers,--thus striking at the very root of employment, and at the
chief means of the sustenance of the people,--striking at the foundation of the manufactures
and the commerce of the country, and of all its prosperity. This is my sincere belief; and
all this, I say, is owing to the want of early notice of the proceedings of those combinations
by the government,--to their not having carried the laws into execution,--to their having left
free from punishment those who have been submitted to trial,--and to their unfortunate selection
of magistrates, and, above all, of the magistrates of the new reformed corporations of Birmingham,
Manchester, Bolton, and other towns. The government may rely on it, that, until they adopt
different measures, they will not induce parliament to look with favour on their proceedings.
The government first reduced all the military establishments. Those military establishments
are not, even now, nearly up to their proper footing; and I am firmly convinced that, in the
disturbed districts, there is not one half the establishment equal to the ordinary establishment
maintained in time of peace. This circumstance, and the want of a due execution of the law
upon those who are tried, convicted, and sentenced to punishment,--and also the fact, that
those who have been appointed to carry into execution the law are persons connected by habit,
by association, and even by excitement, with those very Chartists who have violated the law,--suggest
the true causes of these disturbances; and not the nameless grievances created by a nameless
opposition in this house, to nameless measures, as alleged by the noble viscount.

August 23, 1839.

Speech on Her Majesty's Marriage.

There is no noble lord in this house who concurs more sincerely than I do in the expression
of congratulation to her majesty upon her approaching marriage, which she has been pleased
to announce a second time to the public from the throne this day. I sincerely wish, with the
noble mover and seconder of the address, that this event may tend to the happiness and comfort
of the Queen. Upon this occasion I should have been contented with the address, and should
have offered not another word, if your lordships had not been called upon in the speech from
the throne, to concur with the other house of parliament, in making a suitable provision for
the prince, for whose future station in this country her majesty's speech has prepared us.
But, my lords, it appears to me that when this house is called upon to express an opinion upon
a detail of this description, the house ought to look into, and act upon, this subject--it
ought not to be a mere congratulation. I conceive that the public have a right to know something
beyond the mere name of the prince whom her majesty is about to espouse. My lords, I had the
honour of being summoned to attend her majesty in privy council, when her majesty in council
was graciously pleased to declare her intention of becoming the espoused of this prince. I
observed, that the precedent of the reign of George III. was followed in all respects except
one, and that was the declaration, that this prince was a protestant. [Loud cries of "Hear,
hear!" from the opposition benches.] My lords, I, for one, entertain no doubt that the prince
is a protestant. I believe he is a protestant. I know he is of a protestant family. I have
the honour of being known to some members of that family, and I am sure that it is a protestant
family. But, my lords, this is a protestant state, and it is absolutely necessary, by law,
that the person who shall become the spouse of the queen be a protestant; and, if the precedent
of George III. has been taken in part, it ought to have been followed throughout; and then
the public would have had the satisfaction of knowing that the fact of the prince being a protestant,
had been officially declared by her majesty's government. My lords, I know the noble lords
opposite too well to suppose that they are not aware of the anxiety in the public mind on this
subject; and I know, also, that they had it in their power to relieve that anxiety, and to
gratify the public by making this declaration; nay, more, my lords, I am convinced that there
exists the same anxiety in the royal mind, about the protestant character of the state as is
felt by me or any of your lordships. And if so, my lords, I ask, why was the precedent of George
III. departed from? Is there any doubt as to the religious sentiments of this prince? None
at all; there can be no doubt that he is a protestant; he cannot be otherwise. Then, why is
it not so stated? We have heard something of this marriage from another part of the country;
we have seen some proceedings on this subject since the declaration in council, which show
pretty clearly why the word "protestant" was omitted. My lords, I confess that I am one of
those who read with great attention all that passes in Ireland;--all those speeches which come
from that quarter;--and I do it for this reason: I have been accustomed to that kind of revolutionary
discussions. It has been said by an eminent French writer, en plein jour, on ne conspire pas;
but that is not so now. The object proposed is terror. These things are declared openly. This
I can see from what appears in the public prints, as I read these public letters and missives
in order to see what the real danger is, and that I may not be taken by surprise. Now, what
I mean to say is this,--that I see in what has passed elsewhere, a very suspicious reason why
the word "protestant" was not inserted in the communication made to the privy council, and
why it has not been inserted in the speech from the throne. I say to the noble lords opposite,
that I believe they are as much determined as I am, myself, to maintain the protestant ascendancy
of the state. I think, then, if this be the case, that upon the first occasion, when this question
comes before your lordships, and when the House of Lords shall be called upon to do any act,
or to make any declaration upon the subject, beyond the mere congratulation of the queen, your
lordships should take that course which may procure the country the satisfaction of knowing
that Prince Albert is a protestant prince, and that this is still a protestant state.

January 16, 1840.

Approbation of the Conduct of the Affghanistan Expedition.

My lords, having been, for a great part of my life, selected to carry into execution, under
superior authority, measures of this description, no man can be more capable of judging, from
experience, of the merits of government in planning and carrying into operation such measures;
and I should be the last man to doubt, at any time, the expediency of this or the other house
expressing its approbation of the conduct of the political servants of the crown in planning
and working out all arrangements preparatory to carrying into execution great military operations.
My lords, it has happened to me, by accident, that I had some knowledge of the arrangements
made for the execution of this great military enterprise; and, I must say, that I have never
known an occasion on which the duty of a government was performed on a larger scale,--on which
a more adequate provision was made for all contingencies that could occur, and for all the
various events which could, and which did, in fact, occur during this campaign. My lords, it
would be presumptuous in me to say more on this subject, having, I repeat, been made acquainted,
only by accident, with the arrangements made preparatory to the campaign now brought under
your lordships' attention. With respect to the military services performed, I can say nothing
beyond, nor more deserving the officers and troops, than what has been stated by the governor-general
in his dispatch. My lords, I am well acquainted with the officers who have directed and performed
these services; and I must say that there are no men in the service who deserve a higher degree
of approbation for the manner in which, on all occasions, they have discharged their duty;
and that, in no instance that I have ever heard of, have such services been performed in a
manner better calculated to deserve and secure the approbation of your lordships and of the
country.

February 4, 1840.

       *       *       *       *       *

Danger of Socialism.

It appears that this system (Socialism) has spread itself over a great part of the country;
and, upon inquiry, I find that it has taken root rather extensively in the county in which
I reside. I find that in Hampshire, or on the borders of the two counties, Wiltshire and Hampshire,
there is a large institution for the propagation of Socialist principles, spreading over no
less than five hundred acres of land, which this society have purchased for their purposes.
In reference to that institution, I have this day presented a petition to your lordships, containing
statements as to the doctrines of this society, regarding religion, the holy scriptures, God
Almighty, and all the great points of our belief; which statements, in my estimation, demand
the most serious inquiry. When I read that petition, which I did the moment it was placed in
my hands, I felt it to be my duty, as the lord lieutenant of the county, to call the attention
of the magistracy to the facts which it set forth. That I considered to be my duty; and I say,
also, that the House of Lords, now that the facts have been brought before them, have a duty
to perform to the country, on this question. These doctrines of Socialism are rapidly gaining
strength--are spreading themselves throughout the country. They have now got beyond that point
at which your lordships might say, "We will take no steps in the matter; the system is absurd,
and will fall to pieces of itself." I say, my lords, we have got beyond that point; and the
people should be made to understand that the legislature and the government look on those institutions
only with disfavour, and are determined to discountenance them. And they should also be made
to know, that wherever, in the promulgation of the doctrines of this society, there shall be
a breach of the law committed, it will be treated as such, and punished as such. I say, then,
that it is incumbent on your lordships to take such steps as will satisfy the country that
your attention has been directed to the subject, with the view to remove the evil and ensure
tranquillity. If the government will allow the motion to pass, and take the subject into their
own hands, and inquire into it, through the magistracy, or by any other means, I, for one,
am willing to leave the matter with them on that condition, merely adding that I shall be happy
to afford them any assistance in my power in carrying out their inquiry, and in enabling them
to annihilate this mischievous and demoralising system.

February 4, 1840.

Compliment to the Navy.

I know a great deal of the gentlemen of that profession; and, for my own part, I have always
had, and still have, the greatest and the highest respect for them, and the very utmost confidence
in them. I have always endeavoured to emulate their services in the service in which I have
myself been engaged; and I am sure that in nothing have I endeavoured to emulate them in a
greater degree than in that confidence which they feel, not only in themselves, and in the
officers of their own rank, but in all officers and troops under their command.

February 6, 1840.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eulogium on Lord Seaton.

I had the honour of being connected with the noble and gallant lord in service at an early
period of his life; and I must declare that, at all times, and under all circumstances, he
gave that promise of prudence, zeal, devotion, and ability, which he has so nobly fulfilled
in his services to his sovereign and his country, during the recent proceedings in Canada.
I entirely agree with the noble viscount in all that he has said, respecting the conduct of
my noble and gallant friend, in remaining, under all circumstances, at his post, and in taking
the command of the troops, although it was not thought expedient by the government to place
him again in the government of the provinces. I agree with the noble viscount in wishing that
such examples as that which has been shewn may be always followed in her majesty's service;
for I must say that there never was a brighter example of fortitude and discretion than that
which has been manifested by the noble and gallant lord.

March 27, 1840.

       *       *       *       *       *

Opinion on the Printed Papers' Question.

I wish--as, indeed, everybody wishes--that the House of Commons should have the power of printing
and publishing its papers. But what I want to do is this--to provide that, when it proceeds
to the sale of them, the law should take its course. As to the printing and publishing of papers,
I have no objection, until it comes to the point of sale. The sale ought not, in my opinion,
to be made by the authority of the house; it ought to be made by individuals, and they should
be responsible for what they sell, as they were previously to the passing of the resolution
in 1835; and, up to that time, it must be admitted that the House of Commons and the House
of Lords had the advantage of all their privileges quite as much as they have had ever since.
My lords, I must confess that I look a little further into this question than the mere matter
of libelling individuals. I consider all this as it affects the public generally; and, I say,
the public is mainly interested in its being understood that the House of Commons and the House
of Lords are not to be the privileged sellers of libels against individuals.

April 6, 1840.

Libels on foreign Sovereigns ought not to be permitted.

I remember reading with great satisfaction, the history of a great case, which was pleaded
and argued at considerable length, some years ago, in this country--I mean the case of the
"King v. Peltier," in the court of King's Bench. That was the case of an action brought against
an obscure individual, for a libel which he had published upon the sovereign of a neighbouring
country, with whom we were then in a state of peace and amity. Now, I ask your lordships whether,
supposing, in the course of the late Polish revolution, the libels, some of which we have seen
printed in this country, and others which we have heard spoken of in the other, and, I believe,
in this house of parliament, reviling, in the strongest terms, the sovereign of Russia, had
been stated in the petitions, or in the proceedings of the House of Commons, and had been printed,
published, and sold by its authority; I ask your lordships whether such a proceeding would
not have been calculated to disturb the peace of this country, and of the world at large? In
short, I ask your lordships whether it is desirable that there should be an opportunity of
publishing and selling, on the part of the two houses of parliament, libels against the sovereigns
of all the foreign powers in Europe? My lords, I am one of those who consider that the greatest
political interest of this country is, to remain at peace and amity with all the nations of
the world. I am for avoiding even the cause of war, and of giving offence to any one, and of
seeking a quarrel, either by abuse, or by that description of language which is found in these
libels. I am against insulting the feelings of any sovereign, at whom individuals may have
taken offence, and against whom they may seek to publish libels under the sanction of parliament.
Let them state what they please in their private capacity, and let them be answerable for it
individually, as Peltier was. What I want is, that parliament should not, by the combined privilege
of publication and sale, run the risk of involving the country in the consequences of a discussion
of such subjects, and in all the mischiefs and inconveniences which might arise from it.

April 6, 1840.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reasons why the Chinese stopped the Opium Trade.

It is perfectly true, as is stated by the noble earl, that the trade in opium has been carried
on contrary to the laws of China. But then, my lords, it has been so carried on with the knowledge
of the local authorities on the spot, who received large payments, in the shape of bribes,
or in the way of duties, possibly both, for allowing the import of this opium,--its admission
into the ports of China. It appears that, although the trade was forbidden by the law of China,
it was known to the authorities of China, to the emperor himself, and to all the servants of
the government, that it had existed for many years, and that the discussion had continued for
many months, upon the question, whether the trade should be allowed, and continued, under a
duty, or whether it should be discontinued altogether. Allow me to ask the noble earl, who
has contended so very strongly for the Emperor of China, whether that morality was so very
great while he allowed that trade to be continued? and whether his morality can be improved
in any respect by opium being introduced upon the payment of a large duty, instead of its being
introduced by means of smuggling, and under bribes paid to the officers of his government;
and even, as it has been shown, from the exterior waters into the interior of the country,
in the Mandarin boats, that is, in boats, either in the service of the country, or, at all
events, under the charge of officers of the government? I really cannot see the force of the
noble earl's argument with respect to the illegality of the trade, when it is as clear as possible
that its existence was well known to the government of China, and that no step had ever been
taken to put it down; but, on the contrary, the means of continuing it, and of raising a larger
duty upon it, were under consideration; and, in fact, the trade was finally put down, and discontinued
only because it was supposed that it occasioned the export of a larger quantity of native or
Sycee silver.

May 12, 1840.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Opium not the cause of the war with China. Defence of Captain Elliot.

The noble earl says that this war is to be attributed to the opium! Why? there was no British
opium in China at the very time these other outrages were committed, and when this very language
was held; and, as far as I am able to judge, there was then no opium in the possession of the
British merchants there. An order had been issued to deliver it up, and this gentleman had
gone down the river for the purpose of surrendering the whole. The war, then, has grown out
of another state of circumstances. First of all, there was a claim for the surrender of an
Englishman to be put to death, because a Chinese had lost his life in an affray. Captain Elliot,
as became an English officer, instituted an inquiry to discover whether a certain number of
persons, stated to have been in an affray, had been guilty of the murder or not, and the result
of the inquiry was, that he could not bring the charge home to any one; that he had no reason
to suspect any one. The Chinese government still insisted that these six men should be given
up. Captain Elliot refused, and that, I take it, is one of the causes of the war.

Another of the causes of the war is this--that a provision had been made that matters should
be restored to their former state, in proportion as the opium should be delivered up; that
the British inhabitants should have the use of the native servants; that they should have the
common comforts of life, provisions, and all that was necessary for subsistence; and, finally,
that the trade should be re-opened, and matters allowed to resume their usual course. After
having given that promise, it is discovered that this Chinese lost his life in an affray in
which American seamen were engaged as well as the English; and then a fourth proposition was
advanced, which was this, that every master of a vessel, proceeding up the Canton river, should
sign a bond, submitting himself, and all on board his ship, to be dealt with according to the
laws of China. The noble lord has found fault with Captain Elliot upon this, as well as upon
another matter. Now, this objection is most extraordinary, and it rather tends to prove that
the noble earl, though he has paid great attention to this particular blue book, is not very
well acquainted with former transactions in that country, or he would have found that former
traders with China had invariably refused to subscribe to such proposals, and that they had
broken off the trade with the Chinese, rather than do it; rather than give up British subjects
to be dealt with according to the laws of China. I think they acted most properly; and that
Captain Elliot, very much to his credit, refused to do it; at the same time, he did no more
than his duty. He did what others would I trust have done under the same circumstances; and
he is entitled to great praise for his firmness in resisting that demand. Then there is another
circumstance in which Captain Elliot acted as became him. I allude particularly to his refusal
to give up Mr. Dent. It was declared that the opium trade was not to be continued; that it
was an illegal trade; and that dealing in opium should not be suffered. It was supposed that
Mr. Dent had been a person very much concerned in that trade, and had made a large fortune,
as I believe many others have done, by that illicit trade. And Captain Elliot was blamed, when
it was sought to have Mr. Dent given up, because he, her majesty's representative and the chief
superintendent of trade in that country, stepped forward and said, "I won't allow this gentleman
to be given over to the Chinese government, and to be tried as the Chinese government may direct."
I should, my lords, be ashamed of the name of Englishman, if there could be found one in her
majesty's service capable of acting otherwise than this gentleman did, under such circumstances.
The noble earl has stated that a great deal of difficulty would have been got rid of, if Captain
Elliot had complied with the request of the Chinese; and that the Americans gave up a seaman
to be dealt with according to the Chinese laws. I am sorry for it. I must say, it was not their
duty to do so. They would have done better to have taken a leaf out of our book, and to have
followed the example of the East India Company, to put an end to the trade rather than risk
the life of one of her majesty's subjects, or give him up to be tried by the Chinese government.

May 12, 1840.

       *       *       *       *       *

If we cannot sustain our power in the Canadas, we must necessarily lose all our dominions in
North America.

June 30, 1840.

       *       *       *       *       *

Colonial responsible government, and the sovereignty of Great Britain, are completely incompatible.

June 30, 1840.

Importance of Colonies to the Mother Country.

I have observed in this country, for some length of time, a growing desire to get rid of our
North American dominions--a desire that they should become republics. This desire prevails
amongst a very large party in this country. I am aware that there are also others--not, however,
acting from the same motive--who desire that the separation should take place; tranquilly,
if possible, but that at all events it should take place. In my opinion, these gentlemen are
mistaken. It is my decided opinion, that, considering the resources and the power of these
colonies, this country would sustain a heavy loss, indeed, if these colonies were to be separated
from it.

June 30, 1840.

       *       *       *       *       *

Religious Education must be provided out of the Funds of the Church.

It appears to me that there is no difference of opinion amongst us on these points--namely,
that means must be found of preaching the word of God to the people of England; and I go further--for
this point is also not disputed--and I say that those means must proceed, in the first instance,
from the church, and that they must be exhausted before the public is called on for other means;
in providing those means, you will not only be performing a duty incumbent upon you, but you
will also be following the example of every other nation in the world. It has been my lot to
live among idolaters--among persons of all creeds, and of all religions; but I never knew yet
of a single instance in which public means were not provided sufficient to teach the people
the religion of their country. They might be false religions; I know but of one true one; but
yet means were never wanting to teach those false religions; and I hope that we shall not have
done with this subject until we have found sufficient means for teaching the people of England
their duty to their Maker, and their duty to one another, founded on their duty to that Maker.

July 30, 1840.

       *       *       *       *       *

Necessity of administering Oaths.

I entreat your lordships to pause, and recollect that the foundation of all justice is truth;
and that the mode of discovering truth has always been to administer an oath, in order that
the witness may give his deposition under a high sanction. I hope your lordships will not adopt
another of those bills which have been before your lordships only a few days, and which suggest,
in truth, nothing more than a way of enabling a witness, who thinks proper to say he has conscientious
scruples, to escape the solemnity of an oath. I admit that the inconvenience of the present
state of the law falls on the community rather than on the individuals; but, at the same time,
I think that, by every one of those relaxations, we shake the foundations of justice.

August 4, 1840.

Church-rate Martyrs--true state of the Case.

In my opinion, this case is a very simple one, and one on which there can be no doubt as to
the course which should be taken. Here is a man who has been sued for a sum of money, which,
it is understood, was lawfully due by him. The law renders him liable to pay that sum of money,
and the law supports the proceedings against him for the recovery of it. This person could
have easily avoided these proceedings, by simply paying the sum of 5s. 6d., which was demanded
of him; or he could have gone into court and had the question fairly tried, whether he was
lawfully bound to pay it or not, according to the laws of the country in which he resides;
for, of course, he must be bound by the laws of his country, as well as all other British subjects.
But he has not chosen to take either course. He has said, "I will not pay that money;" and,
in consequence of his own conduct, a large amount has been incurred in the way of costs. These
costs are not matters of speculation or amusement, they are realities; they are sums of money
paid for the labour of certain individuals, for certain services performed in the execution
of their duties, under the legal authority of the ecclesiastical courts, and in this suit.
Now, those costs must be paid. Were we to let the man off from paying the 5s. 6d. for the rate,
that remission would not get rid of his liability for the costs; these latter must be paid,
either by himself or his friends, or else they must be paid by the other party, by the lawful
suitors, by the lawful plaintiffs, who had a right originally to recover the money. They are
the persons who would have to pay the costs, unless your lordships consent to insert the clause
proposed by my noble friend. Somebody must pay the costs after all. But it is said that the
defendant is not to pay the costs, and that he is to be let out of prison. Well, you may let
him out, if you please; but, surely, you would not call upon the plaintiffs to pay the costs
incurred by his conduct? That would not be justice. That would not be fair between man and
man. Not a soul in this house could be of that opinion. It is not consistent either with law
or justice to throw these expenses upon those on whom the law of the country has laid the necessity
of incurring them. Not they, but he who, by his own conduct, rendered the proceedings imperative,
ought to be made to pay the costs.

August 7, 1840.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Duke of Wellington not a War Minister.

No noble lord nor any other man that I know has done half so much for the preservation of peace,
and above all, for the pacification and the maintenance of the honour of France and for the
settlement of all questions in which the interests of France were involved, as the individual
who is addressing your lordships. From the period of the year 1814, down to the last month
of my remaining in the service of the king, I did everything in my power for the strengthening
and preservation of the peace of Europe, and more particularly for the maintaining and keeping
up the best understanding between England and France. I repeat, that I have done more than
any one else to place France in the situation in which she ought to be in the councils of Europe,
from a firm conviction,--which I feel now as strongly as I ever did,--that if France is not,
then there is no necessity for the preservation of the peace of Europe, or for a sound decision
on any subject of general policy. I am sure that the noble viscount would find, if he would
take the trouble to search the archives of the government, papers written by me shortly before
I went out of office in 1830, that would fully justify the assertion which I have just made.
I am sure that those who were in office with me were as anxious for the preservation of the
peace of Europe as any politicians, be they liberals or otherwise. They were as anxious for
the preservation of a good understanding between France and this country, and that France should
be on a perfectly good understanding with all the powers of Europe, and that she should take
the station which becomes her in the rank of nations, and which her power, her wealth, and
her resources entitle her to.

January 26, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Capture of Acre, the greatest deed of modern times.

I have had a little experience in services of this nature, and I think it my duty to warn your
lordships on this occasion, that you must not always expect that ships, however well commanded,
or however gallant their seamen may be, are capable of commonly engaging successfully with
stone walls. I have no recollection, in all my experience, except the recent instance on the
coast of Syria, of any fort being taken by the ships, excepting two or three years ago, when
the fort of St. Jean d'Alloa was captured by the French fleet. That is, I think, the single
instance that I recollect; though I believe that something of the sort occurred at the siege
of Havannah, in 1763. The present achievement I consider one of the greatest deeds of modern
times. That is my opinion, and I give the highest credit to those who performed such a service.
It was altogether a most skillful proceeding. I was greatly surprised at the small number of
men that were lost on board the fleet; and, on inquiring how it happened, I discovered that
it was because the vessels were moored within one-third of the ordinary distance. The guns
of the fortress were intended to strike objects at a greater distance, and the consequence
was, that the shot went over the ships that were anchored at one-third of the usual distance.
By that means they sustained not more than one-tenth of the loss which they would otherwise
have experienced. Not less than 500 pieces of ordnance were directed against the walls; and
the precision with which the fire was kept up, the position of the vessels, and lastly the
blowing up of the large magazine, all aided in achieving this great victory in so short a time.
I thought it right to say this much, because I wished to warn your lordships against your supposing
such deeds as this could be effected every day. I repeat, that this is a singular instance,
in the achievement of which great skill was undoubtedly manifested, but which is also connected
with peculiar circumstances which you could not hope always to occur. It must not, therefore,
be expected as a matter of course, that all such attempts in future must necessarily succeed.

February 4, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

A blow at the Reformation.

There is no doubt that that body (the Roman Catholic seminary of St. Sulpice) was made a corporation
by means of that ordinance, yet until that property had been legally vested in them by the
ordinance, they had no legal right whatever to it. * * * I was very much struck, I must confess,
when first I read the petition and the ordinance relating to this subject; I was very much
struck by the total departure it evinced from the principle of the reformation; a principle
untouched up to this present moment. And I entreat your lordships, whatever you may think on
the subject of this ordinance or other questions--I entreat the attention of your lordships
and of the British public to this, that this ordinance was the first blow openly struck by
authority at the principles of the reformation; principles hitherto upheld, particularly throughout
Canada, from the period of the conquest down to the present moment. I felt strongly on this
point the moment I saw the petition and the ordinance, and I still continue to feel strongly
on the subject, since I have heard the right reverend prelate state that it was the governor-general,
not a member of the legislative council, but the governor-general of the province who brought
forward this measure, acting on the part of the queen, whose rights, interests, and prerogative
it was his duty to protect, and which he should have protected in the legislative council.

March 5, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

Australia.

It would be much the best plan to put an end to all the Australian commissioners, to whom allusion
is made in the bill before your lordships, altogether. A worse system was never adopted for
the management of a colony. We ought to place that colony in the same position as the other
colonies under the government of her majesty, and rule it in the usual way by the Colonial
Office. I disapprove of these commissions altogether.

April 30, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

Evils of Reduced Establishments.

It was stated that the British were expelled from Canton on the 5th of May. I, however, infer
from what took place, that the British were obliged to retire at the end of March. Looking
to the events of the present year, they appear to me to be exceedingly unsatisfactory. And
to what, I would ask, is this owing? It appears to me that this state of things is to be attributed
to improper advice. The interests of the country in various parts of the world, have not been
properly protected. If there is not a general war, we are placed in a situation that tends
to it; and this arises from our having reduced our establishments far below what they ought
to be, even in a time of peace. This was the true cause of the present state of things in China,
and of delay and consequent misfortune elsewhere; and I much fear that circumstances will occur
to cause still further regret at the course that has been adopted with respect to our establishments.
I told ministers so at the time they were making those reductions in 1837. I stated to them
then that they were not taking such care of our establishments as would enable them, in the
event of war, to contend with success against our enemies. The reduction of our establishments
has been pursued in different parts of the world, where we are engaged at present, and now
we see the consequence.

April 29, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

Poor Law Commissioners must be made to do their duty.

I voted for the Irish poor law bill, and proposed amendments, which, I believe, induced your
lordships to pass the bill. I am sure that those amendments had the effect of inducing others
to approve of that bill, who would not have done so if those amendments had not been introduced.
I did all this on the faith and assurance, not only of the house and the government, but of
those gentlemen themselves, that it would be carried into execution in Ireland, with the same
strictness and fairness as it was in this country. In this expectation I have been altogether
disappointed, and for this reason I am determined, when I get the other papers, to read every
line of them, and probe the matter to the bottom, in order to see where the mischief lies.
But recollect there is not only this case, but several other cases before your lordships, in
every one of which there is corruption. We cannot stop here with the resolutions of my noble
friend. The Clonmel case is a very gross case. The noble lord opposite has told us that the
office can be but of little importance, as the salary is only 10l. to 30l. a-year; but see
what power the office gives. In this very case let your lordships see what happened next day,
when the brother-in-law of this individual was appointed valuator, a situation which puts the
property of every man, in some degree, in his power. We must go deeper into this question,
if we wish to do justice to Ireland, and to the gentlemen who hold property in that country.
We must take care that their property shall not be left at the disposal of such miscreants,
and we must make the poor law commissioners do their duty. I cannot think of asking him any
question on the subject, for it was sufficient for him to know that he was the nephew of a
person called the archbishop, to be satisfied of his fitness.

       *       *       *       *       *

It would be mere stuff to stop here; the persons on whom the house must call are the poor law
commissioners themselves. Let them be taught to feel it their duty to keep a correct record
of their proceedings, which they shall be ready to produce at any time that the house or the
government may call for them. Let them be taught to feel that the house will not permit such
conduct as this, and we shall soon see an end to such abuses as those out of which the resolution
of my noble friend arises.

May 3, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

Why Corn Laws were imposed.

These laws (corn laws) were not invented, nor have they been maintained, for the purpose of
keeping high rents in the pockets of noble lords, but they were invented and have been supported
for the purpose of maintaining and supporting agriculture, and of maintaining this country
independent of all other countries and parts of the world; and it is also perfectly true, as
stated by my noble friend behind me, that such has been the policy of England for centuries,
sometimes by one mode, and sometimes by another; sometimes by imposing protective duties when
corn rose above certain prices, and sometimes by giving bounties, and occasionally very large
bounties, on the exportation of corn. But whatever has been the means, the object has always
been to support the agriculture of the country, in order to render this country, in respect
of its subsistence, independent of other nations. This was the object of the improved system
introduced in the year 1828; this was the object of those principles which have been maintained
ever since; at least it was the principle on which I gave those laws my support, and on which
I more than once asked your lordships to render this country dependent only on itself for subsistence.
This was the object of the corn laws, and not that dirty object which has been imputed to your
lordships--and which, I must say, it is too bad to impute to your lordships--of obtaining large
rents from your land. It is also perfectly true, as has been stated by my noble friend behind
me, that there is not a country of Europe in which corn laws do not at this moment exist; but,
nevertheless, I suppose if it were proposed to repeal these laws, and adopt the measures recommended
by the petitioners, your lordships would be told of the quantities of corn that might be had
from Russia and from Prussia, and other parts of the world. But are there no corn laws in those
countries? Has the noble earl heard of no laws prohibiting all exportation of corn to other
countries? That fact alters the whole state of the question of corn laws in this country. The
effect of such a state of things would be most serious if there came a bad season here and
there, too. Then, again, has the noble lord not heard of the high duties imposed on the exportation
of corn from those countries during the late wars? Have not your lordships got evidence before
some of the committees--have you not got letters from some merchants at Dantzic to one of those
governments on the subject of the prices of corn in England, and on the rate of duties imposed
at that port? and was it not stated that the increased price obtained from England might be
expected to enable those merchants to pay the duties imposed by their government on exportation?
Let it be observed, that I do not blame the sovereign to whom I allude for imposing those duties--I
should not have blamed him if it had been an act of war, whereas it was a mere measure of finance.
I do not say, that I agree with him in his notions of protection; but I say, that when I consider
it a question of protection, that sovereign is not to be blamed, and that his object was like
that of your lordships, to secure the subsistence of his subjects, and not to cause a rise
of rents.

May 7, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Corn Laws.

The first man who brought forward those opinions (Adam Smith) which I have read as well as
noble lords opposite, made an exception upon this very subject. He excepted corn from the doctrines
he laid down as to all the other articles of trade. In relation to the subsistence of the people
he says, that we must always take care to ensure that subsistence within the country itself--and
accordingly he excepts corn from the several doctrines which he lays down. I confess I have
heard nothing during these discussions to alter my opinion, that the corn laws which were adopted
almost unanimously in 1828, have perfectly answered the purposes for which they were intended,
and have kept the prices as steady as the nature of the commodity will allow. Yes, my lords,
in this country, when we have produced corn for our own subsistence, and it is our object invariably
to produce it, prices have been more steady than in any other country of Europe. It it my opinion,
on all these grounds, that these laws have operated as successfully as any laws could have done.

May 11,1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

Agriculture and Manufactures.

I cordially concur in the feeling that the prosperity of the agriculturist must depend on the
general prosperity of the manufacturer, and of commercial interests in general. There can be
no doubt about that, and then corn laws are supported, not with a view to the advantage of
any particular interest or class of men, but with a view to render the whole country independent
of foreign countries in respect of its supply of food. I believe that all parts of the country,
and every individual resident in it, are interested in this subject.

May 17, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cotton and Corn.

Allusion has been made to the increase in imports in cotton. It has been said but small profits
were made upon the manufacture of this immense quantity of produce, but that appears to me
to have no connection with the question of the corn laws. The fact is, the improvements in
the machinery, and the introduction of steam, have enabled the manufacturers to manufacture
with very little cost. They do not make the profit now they did fifty years ago; but they still
make profits, although diminished by competition--not by competition with the foreigner, but
by competition at home. Other manufacturers who were aware that profits were to be made, although
not so large as formerly, entered the field, built new manufactories, established machinery,
and thus introduced fresh competition.

May 25, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

Grounds of Complaint against the Whigs in 1841.

These grounds are neglect and mismanagement of the finances of this country by her majesty's
government, the future consequence of which, as has been stated, it is impossible to foresee,
and the improper, impolitic and unconstitutional means which they took to recover themselves.
These things were proved by reference to the actual state of the finances, when it was found
necessary to review them in the last parliament; and it was shewn that, in point of fact, after
a period of about five years, a debt had not alone been accumulated of five millions, but there
had also been a vast deficiency in the public revenue. This debt and deficiency are to be attributed
to the practice adopted by her majesty's government of carrying on extensive operations, of
which nobody approves, mind you, more than I do when done as they should be, and at the same
time not making due provision for the increased expenditure, occasioned by their carrying on
war in several places with a peace establishment, being the most crying of these evils, and
neglecting to employ the proper means for meeting the increased charge, and putting an end
to the impending danger. The next allegation against them, my lords, is for not making financial
provision in the way of ways and means for the expense and charge incurred by the country from
the exertions made to put an end to the danger which menaced it. A noble lord has stated that,
though a large amount of army and ordnance was kept on foot after 1831, no provision had been
made for the additional expenditure in the usual way of an application to parliament, but that
irregular and unconstitutional modes were adopted by her majesty's government for finding means
of defraying those expenses. In this, my lords, my noble friend spoke but the simple truth.
In one case the whole charge of a war had been thrown on the East India Company, and then converted
into a debt on this country; in another the funds of the savings' banks had been tampered with;
in another the Exchequer bills had been funded; and, in short, several most irregular modes
has been adopted. Then, my lords, what happened? Besides these expenses; besides the failure
of the government to make due provision by the mode of ways and means to defray the charges
incurred by their naval and military operations; besides these, my lords, her majesty's government
thought proper to repeal a large amount of taxes, by which means they reduced the revenue of
the country to such a degree as materially and inevitably left a most serious deficiency.

August 24, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hasty adoption of Free Trade by the Whigs.

My lords, it is not more than fourteen months ago since I heard the noble viscount (Melbourne)
say,--making use of the strongest language I ever heard in opposition to a motion merely for
taking the corn laws into consideration,--the noble viscount on that occasion declared before
God, with reference to the abolition of the corn laws, that he believed the man must be mad
who dreamed of such a thing. Now, my lords, I do not pretend to say that the noble viscount
has not a perfect right to change his opinions. I believe he thought that he had good grounds
for doing so, and I think I have myself read the report which induced him to change them. But
this I do say, that, before your lordships and the country were placed in this situation in
regard to the queen, the noble viscount was bound to give parliament and the country an opportunity
of obtaining that knowledge and information as to the true merits of the question, which he
imagines himself to have obtained.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is by such inquiries as these, my lords, calmly and patiently conducted, that men are enabled
to judge respecting the consequences of great changes of this nature, and of the bearings and
tendencies of each particular part of what is intended to be done. But, instead of such a course
being pursued, what has been done in the present instance? Nothing. * * I further think, that
the committee and report were ex parte ones, upon which no legislative measures ought to have
been founded. But what I chiefly complain of is this, that before the noble viscount put this
speech into the mouth of her majesty, he did not give us full and fair information to guide
us as to what we ought to do. I believe, my lords, that conduct like this is sufficient to
induce you to say that the noble lords opposite do not deserve your confidence.

August 24, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lord Melbourne's services to the Queen.

I am willing to admit that the noble viscount has rendered the greatest possible service to
her majesty. I happen to know that it is her majesty's opinion that the noble viscount has
rendered her majesty the greatest possible service, in making her acquainted with the mode
and policy of the government of this country, initiating her into the laws and spirit of the
constitution, independently of the performance of his duty, as the servant of her majesty's
crown; teaching her, in short, to preside over the destinies of this great country.

August 24, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

England the best country for the Poor.

With respect to the corn law question, my opinions are already well known. I shall not argue
the propriety of these laws, but I shall be ready to discuss them when a discussion is brought
forward by a government having the confidence of her majesty's parliament. But, my lords, I
earnestly recommend you, for the sake of the people of this country, for the sake of the humblest
orders of the people, not to lend yourselves to the destruction of our native cultivation.
Its encouragement is of the utmost and deepest importance to all classes. My lords, I have
passed my life in foreign countries, in different regions of the earth, and I have been in
only one country in which the poor man, if sober, prudent, and industrious, is quite certain
of acquiring a competence. That country is this. We have instances every day; we have seen,
only within the last week, proofs that persons in the lowest ranks can acquire, not only competence,
but immense riches. I have never heard of such a thing in any other country. I earnestly beg
of you not to lose sight of this fact, and not to consent to any measure which would injure
the cultivation of our own soil. I have seen in other lands the misery consequent on the destruction
of cultivation, and never was misery equal to it; and, my lords, I once more conjure you not
to consent to any measure tending to injure the home cultivation of this country.

August 24, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

Opinions on Abstract Questions of Policy inexpedient.

My lords, the noble viscount states, and he states truly, that it is not a habit in this house
to call on your lordships to give an opinion on abstract questions of policy. That, my lords,
is perfectly true, and I have myself endeavoured to bring the house to that view on more than
one occasion, that is, to prevent the expression of any opinion on abstract questions of policy,
in the shape of an address or otherwise, until it should be brought before your lordships in
the shape of a distinct legislative measure. More than once I have succeeded in persuading
your lordships to withhold such opinion, and on some occasions, even, I have supported the
government (whig) against them, however much I may have disapproved of their policy with regard
to them.

August 24, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is at all times desirable that the sovereign should not be pledged in the speech from the
throne.

August 24, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *

Abolition of Oaths.

The foundation of all justice is truth, and the question is, how truth is to be ascertained.
Before I can receive any application of this description, and before I can vote for the bill
lately laid on your lordships' table, I would like to hear the opinion of some of those learned
men who are at this moment engaged in the administration of the law, and who must have made
up their minds as to the best means of ascertaining the truth. Hitherto it has been understood
in this country that the best means was by administering oaths. I am aware that the legislature
has made certain exceptions. It may be very well to make these exceptions--and let further
exceptions be made if they are expedient--but I do say, that we ought to have some solemn examination
of the question, and some certainty that the new mode proposed is as good as the old one for
ascertaining the truth, which, as is said, is the foundation of all justice.

March 18, 1842.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Income Tax only justified by Necessity.

I can answer for myself, and I believe I can also answer for my colleagues, that nothing but
necessity could have induced us to propose such a tax. We are perfectly aware of all the inconveniences
that must result from it. We are perfectly aware of the provisions of the act of parliament
upon your lordships' table. We are perfectly aware of the odious powers with which these commissioners
and others must be trusted--and we can reconcile it to ourselves only by the necessity of the
case. Your lordships must feel it. We have been now for several years engaged in operations
involving great expense in all parts of the world. I will not say, my lords, that we have been
at war, but, I believe, we have been at something as like war, if it be not war, as anything
could well be. We are exactly in the situation of persons who have incurred a great debt, and
who are called upon to pay the bill. I say again, my lords, that nothing but a strong sense
of the necessity of the case, and that there was no other course which we could take to produce
such a revenue as would enable us to meet the difficulties of the country, or to do what is
necessary for its prosperity, would have induced us to propose such a measure; and it will
not last one moment longer than it shall be absolutely necessary.

June 17, 1842.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Poor Law has worked well.

I was one of those who supported the poor law as it was introduced some years ago by my noble
and learned friend, and I did so on ascertaining the inconveniences and evils which attended
the system of working under the old poor law up to that period; and being sensible that the
only remedy which could be found for those evils and inconveniences, was in the measure proposed
by my noble and learned friend. My lords, I have since had the satisfaction of contemplating
the working of the measure, which then became the law of the land, and I must say that I have
been satisfied with its results. It has, undoubtedly, improved the condition of the working
classes, and it certainly does place on a better footing the relations between the working
classes and their employers. It has enabled those who had the care of them to provide better
for the aged and destitute than has been hitherto the case; and it has, in general, given satisfaction
throughout the country. My lords, I don't mean to say that I approve of every act that has
been done in carrying this bill into operation. I think that, in many cases, those who had
charge of the working of the bill have gone too far, and that there was no occasion whatever
for constructing buildings, such as have acquired throughout the country the denomination of
bastiles, and that it would have been perfectly easy to have established very efficient workhouses
without shutting out all view of what was passing exterior to the walls. I say, then, that
in some respects, the system has been carried farther than it ought to have been, and, I shall
also say that its features have assumed a harsher character in some parts of the country than
was necessary; but this has been owing, I must admit, in a great degree, to the adoption of
another law by parliament, I mean what is called the dissenters' marriage act, the regulations
depending on which were connected with the execution of the poor law act, and rendered necessary
the establishment of unions in many parts of the country which were not yet ripe for the formation
of those unions. But, notwithstanding the circumstances to which I have just now alluded, I
must, in general, state my approbation of the working of this act. I have paid great attention
to the subject. Wherever I have resided, I have attended the meetings of guardians of unions
in my neighbourhood; I have visited several workhouses in different parts of England, and I
must say that I never visited one in which the management was not as good as could be expected
in such districts of the country, and which did not give universal satisfaction.

July 26, 1842.

       *       *       *       *       *

The government of Lord Melbourne carried on war all over the world with a peace establishment.
That is exactly what we (Sir Robert Peel's government) do not.

February 2, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *
Real cause of the Chinese War.

I was almost the only individual who stated that the real ground of complaint against the Chinese
government was its conduct towards the person employed in the service of her majesty, and representing
her majesty in China. I was the only person in this house who defended her majesty's servants.
I said that the war was a just and necessary war. I will go further, and say, if it had been
otherwise--if it had been a war solely on account of the robbery of the opium--if her majesty's
government were engaged in that war, and if their interests and honour were involved in it,
I should have considered it my duty to make every effort for carrying it on with success, and
have asked parliament for the assistance which would have enabled her majesty's servants to
bring it to an early and successful termination.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eulogium on the Indian Army.

My lords, I know something of that (Indian) army; I have served in its ranks, and I know pretty
well what its feelings are; and though there are different castes and religions composing it,
the discipline of that army, and the military spirit by which it is actuated, totally do away
with all such distinctions. You will never hear in India of any difference of caste or religion
in that army, any more than you would in the ranks of the British army. All do their duty,--all
are animated by the true feelings of soldiers.

March 9, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

Evils of the Press in India.

The state of things in that country is one of much greater difficulty now than when I was there,
because there is now established in India what is called a free press, but which I should make
free to call a most licentious press; and by referring to these papers your lordships will
see that the mischievous influence of that press is repeatedly complained of. For my own part,
I must own, I do not see how the operations of war can be carried on in a satisfactory manner
in India, with such a press constantly exercising its influence, and connected through its
correspondents with every cantonment of the army.

March 9, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Union must be maintained inviolate.

There can be no doubt of the intention of her majesty's government to maintain the union inviolate;
and it is the duty of every government, and I will say it is the determination of her majesty's
present government, to maintain that union inviolate, and to come down to parliament and call
upon parliament to give her majesty's government its support in carrying into execution any
measures which may he considered necessary to maintain the union inviolate, and to preserve
from turbulence the peace of her majesty's dominions.

May 9, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

The House of Lords should disregard popular Clamour.

As to the remarks which are made on your lordships elsewhere, I am one of those animadverted
upon, and I am glad to find myself upon this occasion in such extremely good company. For myself,
I can only say that I have been for a great number of years in the habit of treating such criticisms
and such assaults with the smallest possible attention; and I shall continue to do my duty
to the best of my ability, in the service of my sovereign, or elsewhere, and continue to treat
the language referred to with as little attention as heretofore; and I recommend noble lords
on both sides of the house to follow my example in this respect.

May 15, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sees of St. Asaph and Bangor.

There can have been no object in the measure (the bill for the union of the sees of St. Asaph
and Bangor), but to make all the arrangements in the manner most convenient to the country
generally. There could have been no desire to injure the dioceses of St. Asaph and Bangor,
or any other district in the kingdom; but the object was to make a better distribution of the
revenues of the church, and to satisfy the public of a sincere desire to effect such a reformation
as would be a real one, and such as would give satisfaction, not only to those who were attached
to the church, as my noble friend and myself, but also to others who looked upon it with indifference.

May 23, 1843.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Duke of Sussex.

