He was quite another man now, closing the great ledger with a bang; shouldering it as Moses
did the Tables of the Law, and carrying it into the big vault behind him--big enough to back
a buggy into had the great door been wider--shooting the bolts, whirring the combination into
so hopeless and confused a state that should even the most daring and expert of burglars have
tried his hand or his jimmy on its steel plating he would have given up in despair (that is
unless big Patrick fell asleep--an unheard-of occurrence) and all with such spring and joyousness
of movement that had I not seen him like this many times before I would have been deluded into
the belief that the real Peter had been locked up in the dismal vault with the musty books
and that an entirely different kind of Peter was skipping about outside.

But that was nothing to the air with which he swept his papers into the drawer of his desk,
brushed away the crumpled sheets upon which he had figured his balance, and darted to the washstand
behind the narrow partition. Nor could it be compared to the way in which he stripped off his
black bombazine office-coat with its baggy pockets--quite a disreputable-looking coat I must
say--taking it by the nape of the neck, as if it were some loathsome object to be got rid of,
and hanging it upon a hook behind him; nor to the way in which he pulled up his shirt sleeves
and plunged his white, long-fingered, delicately modeled hands into the basin, as if cleanliness
were a thing to be welcomed as a part of his life. These carefully dried, each finger by itself--not
forgetting the small seal ring on the little one--he gave an extra polish to his glistening
pate with the towel, patted his fresh, smooth-shaven cheeks with an unrumpled handkerchief
which he had taken from his inside pocket, carefully adjusted his white neck-cloth, refastening
the diamond pin--a tiny one but clear as a baby's tear--put on his frock-coat with its high
collar and flaring tails, took down his silk hat, gave it a flourish with his handkerchief,
unhooked his overcoat from a peg behind the door (a gray surtout cut something like the first
Napoleon's) and stepped out to where I sat.

You would never have put him down as being sixty years of age had you known him as well as
I did--and it is a great pity you didn't. Really, now that I come to think of it, I never did
put him down as being of any age at all. Peter Grayson and age never seemed to have anything
to do with each other. Sometimes when I have looked in through the Receiving Teller's window
and have passed in my book--I kept my account at the Exeter--and he has lifted his bushy shutters
and gazed at me suddenly with his merry Scotch-terrier eyes, I have caught, I must admit, a
line of anxiety, or rather of concentrated cautiousness on his face, which for the moment made
me think that perhaps he was looking a trifle older than when I last saw him; but all this
was scattered to the winds when I met him an hour afterward swinging up Wall Street with that
cheery lift of the heels so peculiarly his own, a lift that the occupants of every office window
on both sides of the street knew to be Peter's even when they failed to recognize the surtout
and straight-brimmed high hat. Had any doubting Thomas, however, walked beside him on his way
up Broadway to his rooms on Fifteenth Street, and had the quick, almost boyish lift of Peter's
heels not entirely convinced the unbeliever of Peter's youth, all questions would have been
at once disposed of had the cheery bank teller invited him into his apartment up three flights
of stairs over the tailor's shop--and he would have invited him had he been his friend--and
then and there forced him into an easy chair near the open wood fire, with some such remark
as: "Down, you rascal, and sit close up where I can get my hands on you!" No--there was no
trace of old age about Peter.

He was ready now--hatted, coated and gloved--not a hint of the ostrich egg or shaggy shutters
visible, but a well-preserved bachelor of forty or forty-five; strictly in the mode and of
the mode, looking more like some stray diplomat caught in the wiles of the Street, or some
retired magnate, than a modest bank clerk on three thousand a year. The next instant he was
tripping down the granite steps between the rusty iron railings--on his toes most of the way;
the same cheery spring in his heels, slapping his thin, shapely legs with his tightly rolled
umbrella, adjusting his hat at the proper angle so that the well-trimmed side whiskers--the
veriest little dabs of whiskers hardly an inch long--would show as well as the fringes of his
grey hair.

Not that he was anxious to conceal these slight indications of advancing years, nor did he
have a spark of cheap personal vanity about him, but because it was his nature always to put
his best foot foremost and keep it there; because, too, it behooved him in manner, dress and
morals, to maintain the standards he had set for himself, he being a Grayson, with the best
blood of the State in his veins, and with every table worth dining at open to him from Fourteenth
Street to Murray Hill, and beyond.

"Now, it's all behind me, my dear boy," he cried, as we reached the sidewalk and turned our
faces up Wall Street toward Broadway. "Fifteen hours to live my own life! No care until ten
o'clock to-morrow. Lovely life, my dear Major, when you think of it. Ah, old Micawber was right--income
one pound, expense one pound ten shillings; result, misery: income one pound ten, expense one
pound, outcome, happiness! What a curse this Street is to those who abuse its power for good;
half of them trying to keep out of jail and the other half fighting to keep out of the poor-house!
And most of them get so little out of it. Just as I can detect a counterfeit bill at sight,
my boy, so can I put my ringer on these money-getters when the poison of money-getting for
money's sake begins to work in their veins. I don't mean the laying up of money for a rainy
day, or the providing for one's family. Every man should lay up a six-months' doctor's bill,
just as every man should lay up money enough to keep his body out of Potter's Field. It's laying
up the SURPLUS that hurts."

Peter had his arm firmly locked in mine now.

"Now that concern of Breen & Company, where I found my error, are no better than the others.
They are new to this whirlpool, but they will soon get in over their heads. I think it is only
the third or fourth year since they started business, but they are already floating all sorts
of schemes, and some of them--if you will permit me in confidence, strictly in confidence,
my dear boy--are rather shady, I think: at least I judge so from their deposits."

"What are they, bankers?" I ventured. I had never heard of the firm; not an extraordinary thing
in my case when bankers were concerned.

Peter laughed:

"Yes, BANKERS--all in capital letters--the imitation kind. Breen came from some place out of
town and made a lucky hit in his first year--mines or something--I forget what. Oh, but you
must know that it takes very little now-a-days to make a full-fledged banker. All you have
to do is to hoist in a safe--through the window, generally, with the crowd looking on; rail
off half the office; scatter some big ledgers over two or three newly varnished desks; move
in a dozen arm-chairs, get a ticker, a black-board and a boy with a piece of chalk; be pleasant
to every fellow you meet with his own or somebody else's money in his pocket, and there you
are. But we won't talk of these things--it isn't kind, and, really, I hardly know Breen, and
I'm quite sure he wouldn't know me if he saw me, and he's a very decent gentleman in many ways,
I hear. He never overdraws his account, any way--never tries--and that's more than I can say
for some of his neighbors."

The fog, which earlier in the afternoon had been but a blue haze, softening the hard outlines
of the street, had now settled down in earnest, choking up the doorways, wiping out the tops
of the buildings, their facades starred here and there with gas-jets, and making a smudged
drawing of the columns of the Custom House opposite.

"Superb, are they not?" said Peter, as he wheeled and stood looking at the row of monoliths
supporting the roof of the huge granite pile, each column in relief against the dark shadows
of the portico. "And they are never so beautiful to me, my boy, as when the ugly parts of the
old building are lost in the fog. Follow the lines of these watchmen of the temple! These grave,
dignified, majestic columns standing out in the gloom keeping guard! But it is only a question
of time--down they'll come! See if they don't!"

"They will never dare move them," I protested. "It would be too great a sacrilege." The best
way to get Peter properly started is never to agree with him.

"Not move them! They will break them up for dock-filling before ten years are out. They're
in the way, my boy; they shut out the light; can't hang signs on them; can't plaster them over
with theatre bills; no earthly use. 'Wall Street isn't Rome or any other excavated ruin; it's
the centre of the universe'--that's the way the fellows behind these glass windows talk." Here
Peter pointed to the offices of some prominent bankers, where other belated clerks were still
at work under shaded gas-jets. "These fellows don't want anything classic; they want something
that'll earn four per cent."

We were now opposite the Sub-Treasury, its roof lost in the settling fogs, the bronze figure
of the Father of His Country dominating the flight of marble steps and the adjacent streets.

Again Peter wheeled; this time he lifted his hat to the statue.

"Good evening, your Excellency," he said in a voice mellowed to the same respectful tone with
which he would have addressed the original in the flesh.

Suddenly he loosened his arm from mine and squared himself so he could look into my face.

"I notice that you seldom salute him, Major, and it grieves me," he said with a grim smile.

I broke into a laugh. "Do you think he would feel hurt if I didn't."

"Of course he would, and so should you. He wasn't put there for ornament, my boy, but to be
kept in mind, and I want to tell you that there's no place in the world where his example is
so much needed as right here in Wall Street. Want of reverence, my dear boy"--here he adjusted
his umbrella to the hollow of his arm--"is our national sin. Nobody reveres anything now-a-days.
Much as you can do to keep people from running railroads through your family vaults, and, as
to one's character, all a man needs to get himself battered black and blue, is to try to be
of some service to his country. Even our presidents have to be murdered before we stop abusing
them. By Jove! Major, you've GOT to salute him! You're too fine a man to run to seed and lose
your respect for things worth while. I won't have it, I tell you! Off with your hat!"

I at once uncovered my head (the fog helped to conceal my own identity, if it didn't Peter's)
and stood for a brief instant in a respectful attitude.

There was nothing new in the discussion. Sometimes I would laugh at him; sometimes I would
only touch my hat in unison; sometimes I let him do the bowing alone, an act on his part which
never attracted attention--looking more as if he had accosted some passing friend.

We had reached Broadway by this time and were crossing the street opposite Trinity Churchyard.

"Come over here with me," he cried, "and let us look in through the iron railings. The study
of the dead is often more profitable than knowledge of the living. Ah, the gate is open! It
is not often I am here at this time, and on a foggy afternoon. What a noble charity, my boy,
is a fog--it hides such a multitude of sins--bad architecture for one," and he laughed softly.

I always let Peter run on--in fact I always encourage him to run on. No one I know talks quite
in the same way; many with a larger experience of life are more profound, but none have the
personal note which characterizes the old fellow's discussions.

"And how do you suppose these by-gones feel about what is going on around them?" he rattled
on, tapping the wet slab of a tomb with the end of his umbrella. "And not only these sturdy
patriots who lie here, but the queer old ghosts who live in the steeple?" he added, waving
his hand upward to the slender spire, its cross lost in the fog. "Yes, ghosts and goblins,
my boy. You don't believe it?--I do--or I persuade myself I do, which is better. Sometimes
I can see them straddling the chimes when they ring out the hours, or I catch them peeping
out between the slats of the windows away up near the cross. Very often in the hot afternoons
when you are stretching your lazy body under the tents of the mighty--" (Peter referred to
some friends of mine who owned a villa down on Long Island, and were good enough to ask me
down for a week in August) "I come up here out of the rush and sit on these old tombstones
and talk to these old fellows--both kinds--the steeple boys and the old cronies under the sod.
You never come, I know. You will when you're my age."

I had it in my mind to tell him that the inside of a dry tent had some advantages over the
outside of a damp tomb, so far as entertaining one's friends, even in hot weather, was concerned,
but I was afraid it might stop the flow of his thoughts, and checked myself.

"It is not so much the rest and quiet that delights me, as the feeling that I am walled about
for the moment and protected; jerked out of the whirlpool, as it were, and given a breathing
spell. On these afternoons the old church becomes a church once more--not a gate to bar out
the rush of commercialism. See where she stands--quite out to the very curb, her warning finger
pointing upward. 'Thus far shalt thou come, and no farther,' she cries out to the Four Per
Cents. 'Hug up close to me, you old fellows asleep in your graves; get under my lea. Let us
fight it out together, the living and the dead!' And now hear these abominable Four Per Cents
behind their glass windows: 'No place for a church,' they say. 'No place for the dead! Property
too valuable. Move it up town. Move it out in the country--move it any where so you get it
out of our way. We are the Great Amalgamated Crunch Company. Into our maw goes respect for
tradition, reverence for the dead, decency, love of religion, sentiment, and beauty. These
are back numbers. In their place, we give you something real and up-to-date from basement to
flagstaff, with fifty applicants on the waiting list. If you don't believe it read our prospectus!'"

Peter had straightened and was standing with his hand lifted above his head, as if he were
about to pronounce a benediction. Then he said slowly, and with a note of sadness in his voice:

"Do you wonder, now, my boy, why I touch my hat to His Excellency?"

CHAPTER II

All the way up Broadway he kept up his good-natured tirade, railing at the extravagance of
the age, at the costly dinners, equipages, dress of the women, until we reached the foot of
the dilapidated flight of brown-stone steps leading to the front door of his home on Fifteenth
Street. Here a flood of gas light from inside a shop in the basement brought into view the
figure of a short, squat, spectacled little man bending over a cutting-table, a pair of shears
in his hand.

"Isaac is still at work," he cried. "If we were not so late we'd go in and have a word with
him. Now there's a man who has solved the problem, my boy. Nobody will ever coax Isaac Cohen
up to Fifth Avenue and into a 'By appointment to His Majesty' kind of a tailor shop. Just pegs
away year after year--he was here long before I came--supporting his family, storing his mind
with all sorts of rare knowledge. Do you know he's one of the most delightful men you will
meet in a day's journey?"

"No--never knew anything of the kind. Thought he was just plain tailor."

"And an intimate friend of many of the English actors who come over here?" continued Peter.

"I never heard a word about it" I answered meekly; Peter's acquaintances being too varied and
too numerous for me to keep track of. That he should have a tailor among them as learned and
wise as Solomon, and with friends all over the globe, was quite to be expected.

"Well, he is," answered Peter. "They always hunt him up the first thing they do. He lived in
London for years and made their costumes. There's no one, I assure you, I am more glad to see
when he makes an excuse to rap at my door. You'll come up, of course, until I read my letters."

"No, I'll keep on to my rooms and meet you later at the club."

"You'll do nothing of the kind, you restless mortal. You'll come upstairs with me until I open
my mail. It's really like touching the spring of a Jack-in-the-box, this mail of mine--all
sorts of things pop out, generally the unexpected. Mighty interesting, I tell you," and with
a cheery wave of the hand to his friend Isaac, whose eyes had been looking streetward at the
precise moment, Peter pushed me ahead of him up the worn marble steps flanked by the rust-eaten
iron railing which led to the hallway and stairs, and so on up to his apartment.

It was just the sort of house Peter, of all men in the world, would have picked out to live
in--and he had been here for twenty years or more. Not only did the estimable Isaac occupy
the basement, but Madame Montini, the dress-maker, had the first floor back; a real-estate
agent made free with the first floor front, and a very worthy teacher of music, whose piano
could be heard at all hours of the day, and far into the night, was paying rent for the second,
both front and back. Peter's own apartments ran the whole length of the third floor, immediately
under the slanting, low-ceiled garret, which was inhabited by the good Mrs. McGuffey, the janitress,
who, in addition to her regular duties, took especial care of Peter's rooms. Adjoining these
was a small apartment consisting of two rooms, connecting with Peter's suite by a door cut
through for some former lodger. These were also under Mrs. McGuffey's special care and very
good care did she take of them, especially when Peter's sister, Miss Felicia Grayson, occupied
them for certain weeks in the year.

These changes had all taken place in the time the old fellow had mounted the quaint stairs
with the thin mahogany banisters, and yet Peter stayed on. "The gnarled pear tree in the back
yard is so charming," he would urge in excuse, "especially in the spring, when the perfume
of its blossoms fills the air," or, "the view overlooking Union Square is so delightful," or,
"the fireplace has such a good draught." What mattered it who lived next door, or below, or
overhead, for that matter, so that he was not disturbed--and he never was. The property, of
course, had gone from bad to worse since the owner had died; the neighborhood had run down,
and the better class of tenants down, up, and even across the street--had moved away, but none
of these things had troubled Peter.

And no wonder, when once you got inside the two rooms and looked about!

There was a four-post bedstead with chintz curtains draped about the posts, that Martha Washington
might have slept in, and a chintz petticoat which reached the floor and hid its toes of rollers,
which the dear lady could have made with her own hands; there was a most ancient mahogany bureau
to match, all brass fittings. There were easy chairs with restful arms within reach of tables
holding lamps, ash receivers and the like; and rows and rows of books on open shelves edged
with leather; not to mention engravings of distinguished men and old portraits in heavy gilt
frames: one of his grandfather who fought in the Revolution, and another of his mother--this
last by Rembrandt Peale--a dear old lady with the face of a saint framed in a head of gray
hair, the whole surmounted by a cluster of silvery curls. There were quaint brass candelabra
with square marble bases on each end of the mantel, holding candles showing burnt wicks in
the day time and cheery lights at night; and a red carpet covering both rooms and red table
covers and red damask curtains, and a lounge with a red afghan thrown over it; and last, but
by no means least--in fact it was the most important thing in the sitting-room, so far as comfort
was concerned--there was a big open-hearth Franklin, full of blazing red logs, with brass andirons
and fender, and a draught of such marvellous suction that stray scraps of paper, to say nothing
of uncommonly large sparks, had been known more than once to have been picked up in a jiffy
and whirled into its capacious throat.

Just the very background for dear old Peter, I always said, whenever I watched him moving about
the cheery interior, pushing up a chair, lighting a fresh candle, or replacing a book on the
shelf. What a half-length the great Sully would have made of him, with his high collar, white
shirt-front and wonderful neck-cloth with its pleats and counterpleats, to say nothing of his
rosy cheeks and bald head, the high light glistening on one of his big bumps of benevolence.
And what a background of deep reds and warm mahoganys with a glint of yellow brass for contrast!

Indeed, I have often thought that not only Peter's love of red, but much of Peter's quaintness
of dress, had been suggested by some of the old portraits which lined the walls of his sitting-room--his
grandfather, by Sully, among them; and I firmly believe, although I assure you I have never
mentioned it to any human being before, that had custom permitted (the directors of his bank,
perhaps), Peter would not only have indulged in the high coat-collar and quaint neck-cloths
of his fathers, but would also have worn a dainty cue tied with a flowing black ribbon, always
supposing, of course, that his hair had held out, and, what is more important, always supposing,
that the wisp was long enough to hold on.

The one article, however, which, more than any other one thing in his apartment, revealed his
tastes and habits, was a long, wide, ample mahogany desk, once the property of an ancestor,
which stood under the window in the front room. In this, ready to his hand, were drawers little
and big, full of miscellaneous papers and envelopes; pigeon-holes crammed full of answered
and unanswered notes, some with crests on them, some with plain wax clinging to the flap of
the broken envelopes; many held together with the gum of the common world. Here, too, were
bundles of old letters tied with tape; piles of pamphlets, quaint trays holding pens and pencils,
and here too was always to be found, in summer or in winter, a big vase full of roses or blossoms,
or whatever was in season--a luxury he never denied himself.

To this desk, then, Peter betook himself the moment he had hung his gray surtout on its hook
in the closet and disposed of his hat and umbrella. This was his up-town office, really, and
here his letters awaited him.

First came a notice of the next meeting of the Numismatic Society of which he was an honored
member; then a bill for his semi-annual dues at the Century Club; next a delicately scented
sheet inviting him to dine with the Van Wormleys of Washington Square, to meet an English lord
and his lady, followed by a pressing letter to spend Sunday with friends in the country. Then
came a long letter from his sister, Miss Felicia Grayson, who lived in the Genesee Valley and
who came to New York every winter for what she was pleased to call "The Season" (a very remarkable
old lady, this Miss Felicia Grayson, with a mind of her own, sections of which she did not
hesitate to ventilate when anybody crossed her or her path, and of whom we shall hear more
in these pages), together with the usual assortment of bills and receipts, the whole an enlivening
record not only of Peter's daily life and range of taste, but of the limitations of his purse
as well.

One letter was reserved for the last. This he held in his hand until he again ran his eye over
the pile before him. It was from Holker Morris the architect, a man who stood at the head of
his profession.

"Yes, Holker's handwriting," he said as he inserted the end of the paper cutter. "I wonder
what the dear fellow wants now?" Here he ran his eye over the first page. "Listen, Major. What
an extraordinary man... He's going to give a dinner, he says, to his draughtsmen... in his
offices at the top of his new building, six stories up. Does the rascal think I have nothing
to do but crawl up his stairs? Here, I'll read it to you."

"'You, dear Peter:' That's just like Holker! He begins that way when he wants me to do something
for him. 'No use saying you won't come, for I shall be around for you at seven o'clock with
a club--'No, that's not it--he writes so badly--'with a cab.' Yes, that's it--'with a cab.'
I wonder if he can drive me up those six flights of stairs? 'There'll be something to eat,
and drink, and there will be fifty or more of my draughtsmen and former employees. I'm going
to give them a dinner and a house-warming. Bring the Major if you see him. I have sent a note
to his room, but it may not reach him. No dress suit, remember. Some of my men wouldn't know
one if they saw it."

As the letter dropped from Peter's hand a scraping of feet was heard at the hall door, followed
by a cheery word from Mrs. McGuffey--she had her favorites among Peter's friends--and Holker
Morris burst into the room.

"Ah, caught you both!" he cried, all out of breath with his run upstairs, his hat still on
his head. No one blew in and blew out of Peter's room (literally so) with the breeze and dash
of the distinguished architect. "Into your coats, you two--we haven't a moment to spare. You
got my letter, of course," he added, throwing back the cape of his raincoat.

"Yes, Holker, just opened it!" cried Peter, holding out both hands to his guest. "But I'm not
going. I am too old for your young fellows--take the Major and leave me behind."

The architect grabbed Peter by the arm. "When did that mighty idea crack its way through that
shell of yours, you tottering Methusaleh! Old! You're spryer than a frolicking lamb in March.
You are coming, too, Major. Get into your coats and things!"

"But Isaac is pressing my swallow-tail."

"I don't mean your dress-coat, man--your OVERCOAT! Now I am sure you didn't read my letter?
Some of my young fellows haven't got such a thing--too poor."

"But look at YOURS!"

"Yes, I had to slip into mine out of respect to the occasion; my boys wouldn't like it if I
didn't. Sort of uniform to them, but they'd be mighty uncomfortable if you wore yours. Hurry
up, we haven't a minute to lose."

Peter had forced the architect into one of the big chairs by the fire by this time, and stood
bending over him, his hands resting on Morris's broad shoulders.

"Take the Major with you, that's a good fellow, and let me drop in about eleven o'clock," he
pleaded, an expression on his face seen only when two men understand and love each other. "There's
a letter from Felicia to attend to; she writes she is coming down for a couple of weeks, and
then I've really had a devil of a day at the bank."

"No, you old fraud, you can't wheedle me that way. I want you before everybody sits down, so
my young chaps can look you over. Why, Peter, you're better than a whole course of lectures,
and you mean something, you beggar! I tell you" (here he lifted himself from the depths of
the chair and scrambled to his feet) "you've got to go if I have to tie your hands and feet
and carry you downstairs on my back! And you, too, Major--both of you. Here's your overcoat--into
it, you humbug!... the other arm. Is this your hat? Out you go!" and before I had stopped laughing--I
had refused to crowd the cab--Morris had buttoned the surtout over Peter's breast, crammed
the straight-brimmed hat over his eyes, and the two were clattering downstairs.

CHAPTER III

Long before the two had reached the top floor of the building in which the dinner was to be
given, they had caught the hum of the merrymakers, the sound bringing a smile of satisfaction
to Peter's face, but it was when he entered the richly colored room itself, hazy with cigarette
smoke, and began to look into the faces of the guests grouped about him and down the long table
illumined by myriads of wax candles that all his doubts and misgivings faded into thin air.
Never since his school days, he told me afterwards, had he seen so many boisterously happy
young fellows grouped together. And not only young fellows, with rosy cheeks and bright eyes,
but older men with thoughtful faces, who had relinquished for a day the charge of some one
of the important buildings designed in the distinguished architect's office, and had spent
the night on the train that they might do honor to their Chief.

But it was when Morris, with his arm fast locked in his, began introducing him right and left
as the "Guest of Honor of the Evening," the two shaking hands first with one and then another,
Morris breaking out into joyous salvos of welcome over some arrival from a distant city, or
greeting with marked kindness and courtesy one of the younger men from his own office, that
the old fellow's enthusiasm became uncontrollable.

"Isn't it glorious, Holker!" he cried joyously, with uplifted hands. "Oh, I'm so glad I came!
I wouldn't have missed this for anything in the world. Did you ever see anything like it? This
is classic, my boy--it has the tang and the spice of the ancients."

Morris's greeting to me was none the less hearty, although he had left me but half an hour before.

"Late, as I expected, Major," he cried with out-stretched hand, "and serves you right for not
sitting in Peter's lap in the cab. Somebody ought to sit on him once in a while. He's twenty
years younger already. Here, take this seat alongside of me where you can keep him in order--they
were at table when I entered. Waiter, bring back that bottle--Just a light claret, Major--all
we allow ourselves."

As the evening wore away the charm of the room grew upon me. Vistas hazy with tobacco smoke
opened up; the ceiling lost in the fog gave one the impression of out-of-doors--like a roof-garden
at night; a delusion made all the more real by the happy uproar. And then the touches here
and there by men whose life had been the study of color and effects; the appointments of the
table, the massing of flowers relieving the white cloth; the placing of shaded candles, so
that only a rosy glow filtered through the loom, softening the light on the happy faces--each
scalp crowned with chaplets of laurel tied with red ribbons: an enchantment of color, form
and light where but an hour before only the practical and the commonplace had held sway.

No vestige of the business side of the offices remained. Peter pointed out to me a big plaster
model of the State House, which filled one end of the room, and two great figures, original
plaster casts, heroic in size, that Harding, the sculptor, had modelled for either side of
the entrance of the building; but everything that smacked of T-square or scale was hidden from
sight. In their place, lining the walls, stood a row of standards of red and orange silk, stretched
on rods and supported by poles; the same patterns of banners which were carried before Imperial
Caesars when they took an airing; and now emblazoned with the titles of the several structures
conceived in the brain of Holker Morris and executed by his staff: the Imperial Library in
Tokio; the great Corn Exchange covering a city block; the superb Art Museum crowning the highest
hill in the Park; the beautiful chateau of the millionaire surrounded by thousands of acres
of virgin forest; the spacious warehouses on the water front, and many others.

With the passing of the flagons an electric current of good fellowship flashed around the circle.
Stories that would have been received with but a bare smile at the club were here greeted with
shouts of laughter. Bon-mots, skits, puns and squibs mouldy with age or threadbare with use,
were told with a new gusto and welcomed with delight.

Suddenly, and without any apparent reason, these burst forth a roar like that of a great orchestra
with every instrument played at its loudest--rounds of applause from kettle-drums, trombones
and big horns; screams of laughter from piccolos, clarionettes and flutes, buzzings of subdued
talk by groups of bass viols and the lesser strings, the whole broken by the ringing notes
of a song that soared for an instant clear of the din, only to be overtaken and drowned in
the mighty shout of approval. This was followed by a stampede from the table; the banners were
caught up with a mighty shout and carried around the room; Morris, boy for the moment, springing
to his feet and joining in the uproar.

The only guest who kept his chair, except Peter and myself, was a young fellow two seats away,
whose eyes, brilliant with excitement, followed the merrymaking, but who seemed too much abashed,
or too ill at ease, to join in the fun. I had noticed how quiet he was and wondered at the
cause. Peter had also been watching the boy and had said to me that he had a good face and
was evidently from out of town.

"Why don't you get up?" Peter called to him at last. "Up with you, my lad. This is one of the
times when every one of you young fellows should be on your feet." He would have grabbed a
banner himself had any one given him the slightest encouragement.

"I would, sir, but I'm out of it," said the young man with a deferential bow, moving to the
empty seat next to Peter. He too had been glancing at Peter from time to time.

"Aren't you with Mr. Morris?"

"No, I wish I were. I came with my friend, Garry Minott, that young fellow carrying the banner
with 'Corn Exchange' marked on it."

"And may I ask, then, what you do?" continued Peter.

The young fellow looked into the older man's kindly eyes--something in their expression implied
a wish to draw him the closer--and said quite simply: "I don't do anything that is of any use,
sir. Garry says that I might as well work in a faro bank."

Peter leaned forward. For the moment the hubbub was forgotten as he scrutinized the young man,
who seemed scarcely twenty-one, his well-knit, well-dressed body, his soft brown hair curled
about his scalp, cleanly modelled ears, steady brown eyes, white teeth--especially the mobile
lips which seemed quivering from some suppressed emotion--all telling of a boy delicately nurtured.

"And do you really work in a faro bank?" Peter's knowledge of human nature had failed him for once.

"Oh, no sir, that is only one of Garry's jokes. I'm clerk in a stock broker's office on Wall
Street. Arthur Breen & Company. My uncle is head of the firm."

"Oh, that's it, is it?" answered Peter in a relieved tone.

"And now will you tell me what your business is, sir?" asked the young man. "You seem so different
from the others."

"Me! Oh, I take care of the money your gamblers win," replied Peter, at which they both laughed,
a spark of sympathy being kindled between them.

Then, seeing the puzzled expression on the boy's face, he added with a smile: "I'm Receiving
Teller in a bank, one of the oldest in Wall Street."

A look of relief passed over the young fellow's face.

"I'm very glad, sir," he said, with a smile. "Do you know, sir, you look something like my
own father--what I can remember of him--that is, he was--" The lad checked himself, fearing
he might be discourteous. "That is, he had lost his hair, sir, and he wore his cravats like
you, too. I have his portrait in my room."

Peter leaned still closer to the speaker. This time he laid his hand on his arm. The tumult
around him made conversation almost impossible. "And now tell me your name?"

"My name is Breen, sir. John Breen. I live with my uncle."

The roar of the dinner now became so fast and furious that further confidences were impossible.
The banners had been replaced and every one was reseated, talking or laughing. On one side
raged a discussion as to how far the decoration of a plain surface should go--"Roughing it,"
some of them called it. At the end of the table two men were wrangling as to whether the upper
or the lower half of a tall structure should have its vertical lines broken; and, if so, by
what. Further down high-keyed voices were crying out against the abomination of the flat roof
on the more costly buildings; wondering whether some of their clients would wake up to the
necessity of breaking the sky-line with something less ugly--even if it did cost a little more.
Still a third group were in shouts of laughter over a story told by one of the staff who had
just returned from an inspection trip west.

Young Breen looked down the length of the table, watched for a moment a couple of draughtsmen
who stood bowing and drinking to each other in mock ceremony out of the quaint glasses filled
from the borrowed flagons, then glanced toward his friend Minott, just then the centre of a
cyclone that was stirring the group midway the table.

"Come over here, Garry," he called, half rising to his feet to attract his friend's attention.

Minott waved his hand in answer, waited until the point of the story had been reached, and
made his way toward Peter's end of the table.

"Garry," he whispered, "I want to introduce you to Mr. Grayson--the very dearest old gentleman
you ever met in your whole life. Sits right next to me."

"What, that old fellow that looks like a billiard ball in a high collar?" muttered Minott with
a twinkle in his eye. "We've been wondering where Mr. Morris dug him up."

"Hush," said Breen--"he'll hear you."

"All right, but hurry up. I must say he doesn't look near so bad when you get close to him."

"Mr. Grayson, I want you to know my friend Garry Minott."

Peter rose to his feet. "I DO know him," he said, holding out his hand cordially. "I've been
knowing him all the evening. He's made most of the fun at his end of the table. You seem to
have flaunted your Corn Exchange banner on the smallest provocation, Mr. Minott," and Peter's
fingers gripped those of the young man.

