Rosecrans, McCook, and Crittenden passed out of the battle when they went back to Chattanooga,
and their absence was discouraging to all aware of it.  Doubtless this had much to do with
Thomas's final withdrawal, thus leaving the field to the enemy, though at an immense cost in
killed and wounded.  The night of the 21st the army moved back from Rossville, and my division,
as the rearguard of the Twentieth Corps, got within our lines at Chattanooga about 8 o'clock
the morning of the 22d.  Our unmolested retirement from Rossville lent additional force to
the belief that the enemy had been badly injured, and further impressed me with the conviction
that we might have held on.  Indeed, the battle of Chickamauga was somewhat like that of Stone
River, victory resting with the side that had the grit to defer longest its relinquishment
of the field.

The manoeuvres by which Rosecrans had carried his army over the Cumberland Mountains, crossed
the Tennessee River, and possessed himself of Chattanooga, merit the highest commendation up
to the abandonment of this town by Bragg on the 8th of September; but I have always fancied
that that evacuation made Rosecrans over-confident, and led him to think that he could force
Bragg south as far as Rome. After the Union army passed the river and Chattanooga fell into
our hands; we still kept pressing the enemy's communications, and the configuration of the
country necessitated more or less isolation of the different corps.  McCook's corps of three
divisions had crossed two difficult ridges--Sand and Lookout mountains--to Alpine in Broomtown
Valley with intentions against Summerville.  Thomas's corps had marched by the way of Stevens's
Gap toward Lafayette, which he expected to occupy.  Crittenden had passed through Chattanooga,
at first directing his march an Ringgold.  Thus the corps of the army were not in conjunction,
and between McCook and Thomas there intervened a positive and aggressive obstacle in the shape
of Bragg's army concentrating and awaiting reinforcement at Lafayette.  Under these circumstances
Bragg could have taken the different corps in detail, and it is strange that he did not, even
before receiving his reinforcements, turn on McCook in Broomtown Valley and destroy him.

Intelligence that Bragg would give battle began to come to us from various sources as early
as the 10th of September, and on the 11th McCook found that he could not communicate with Thomas
by the direct road through Broomtown Valley; but we did not begin closing in toward Chattanooga
till the 13th, and even then the Twentieth Corps had before it the certainty of many delays
that must necessarily result from the circuitous and difficult mountain roads which we would
be obliged to follow.  Had the different corps, beginning with McCook's, been drawn in toward
Chattanooga between the 8th and 12th of September, the objective point of the campaign would
have remained in our hands without the battle of Chickamauga, but, as has been seen, this was
not done.  McCook was almost constantly on the march day and night between the 13th and the
19th, ascending and descending mountains, his men worried and wearied, so that when they appeared
on the battle-field, their fatigued condition operated greatly against their efficiency.  This
delay in concentration was also the original cause of the continuous shifting toward our left
to the support of Thomas, by which manoeuvre Rosecrans endeavored to protect his communications
with Chattanooga, and out of which grew the intervals that offered such tempting opportunities
to Bragg.  In addition to all this, much transpired on the field of battle tending to bring
about disaster.  There did not seem to be any well-defined plan of action in the fighting;
and this led to much independence of judgment in construing orders among some of the subordinate
generals.