By means of the ingenious arrangement of these displays, manifesting the great achievements
made in the development of pedagogy, I augmented my professional learning during the hours
of that day to such an extent as would otherwise require months of careful study. The means
of obtaining these results of so great interest and profit to me as a teacher, were much facilitated
by my knowledge of several of the languages spoken by the nations represented there. For, I
readily understood the reports, statistics, and text-books sent from the educational institutions
of the leading countries. Furthermore, the commissioners of the respective sections, whom I
addressed in their native tongue, complaisantly gave me all the additional information I desired.

As I inspected, among the manifold exhibits contributed by the State of New York, the specimen
work from the best pupils of the Art Students' League, some sketches from life and drawings
from the antique attracted my special attention. They bore the signature of a young gentleman
from Schenectady--Walter M. Clute--a name which, I am certain, will be widely known in future
years as that of a prominent artist of this country.

We spent the following day--Sunday--in Chicago which is perhaps the most remarkable city in
the world for its rapid growth. Its history dates back to the year 1803, when Fort Dearborn
was erected. Abandoned at the beginning of the war with Great Britain in 1812, it was destroyed
by the Indians; but rebuilt in 1816. The town was organized in 1833, and the first charter
of a city passed by the Legislature, March 4, 1837. A number of outlying suburbs of Chicago
were annexed by popular vote so that the present area of the city covers 181 square miles;
its population being about 1,400,000. When we consider the fact that in 1871 a great fire,
sweeping over the business center of Chicago, laid more than 2,000 acres in ruins, and then
reflect on the city of to-day, rebuilt in a style of great solidity and magnificence, with
its innumerable handsome buildings of stupendous proportions--its six hundred beautiful churches--and
its vast number of educational institutions, we cannot but admire the spirit of enterprise
which evolved such wondrous prosperity in little more than two decades.

The destructive fire constituted the largest conflagration of modern times. Commencing by the
overturning of a lamp in a district built up almost exclusively of wood, about nine o'clock
in the evening of October 8, 1871, it continued through that night and the greater part of
the next day. Finally, it was checked by the explosion of gunpowder, whereupon it exhausted
itself by burning all there was to ignite within the confined space. Although 18,000 houses
had been reduced to ashes, ten years thereafter all traces of the calamity had disappeared.

It would be impossible to give a description of all the fine buildings which have made Chicago
famous. The principal hotel--probably the largest in the world--is the "Auditorium," having
its dining halls on the tenth floor. All the conveniences that modern ingenuity has excogitated--in
accordance with the requirements of the present era--have been introduced into this huge structure.
It includes a theater having a seating capacity for 6,000 spectators.

The park system of Chicago is one of the most extensive in the world. Jackson and Washington
Parks belong to the south division, whereas the western section inside the city limits comprises
three; known as Humboldt, Garfield, and Douglas Parks. Their ornamentation is varied by superb
flower-beds, fountains, statues, and monuments. Lincoln Park--including a zoological garden,
and being romantically situated upon the lake shore in the northern portion of the city--constitutes
a delightful place of amusement for pleasure-seekers. The parks are all connected by boulevards--some
of them 200 feet wide--encircling the city, and affording a continuous drive of thirty-five miles.

The trade of Chicago is enormous. Its chief items are grain, live-stock, meat products, and
lumber. It principally manufactures iron and steel, wood, brick, leather, chemicals, boots
and shoes, cigars and tobacco.

The next day after our return to the Chicago Harbor in the evening, Mrs. Dr. McDonald of Chicago
accompanied by her brother, Mr. Bernard, paid us a visit on board the "Marguerite." Miss Campbell
made the acquaintance of this amiable lady during her last trip to Europe; and they were traveling-companions,
spending many pleasant days journeying together in the old world.

The WOMAN'S BUILDING was the first structure to be inspected after our next arrival on the
Exposition Grounds, according to the programme for that day. It represented a great museum
filled with countless contributions made by women. The superb displays of paintings, ceramics,
art work, manufactures, liberal arts, embroideries, fancy work, laces; moreover, dentistry,
surgery, authorship, pedagogy, etc., and works of female artisans--evinced that womankind is
able to compete with man, not only in the arts and sciences and in the more delicate achievements
of handiwork, but in almost every department of human activity. Even the exterior of this handsome
building, erected in the style of the Italian renaissance after the design of Miss Sophia G.
Hayden of Boston--with its exquisite sculptural decorations--executed by Miss Alice Rideout
of St. Francisco--bore testimony to the fact, that women are entitled to enter into competition
with their male colleagues. 

While the war go on in this way at Mitylene, as the Athenians, about the case in this season, also
sent-- ships to peloponnese under Asopius, son of phormio; the Acarnanians insisting that commander
sent should be some boy or whole of phormio.

The sea was thus relative against the closed, who, however, commanded
the complete country, with the rest of the Lesbians who had now joined
them; the Athenians merely holding a limited area round their encampment,
and using Malea more as the station for their ships and their variation.


All that was to be seen in this edifice proved the opinion that women are justified in demanding
a position equal to men.

Nevertheless, many refuse to acknowledge this claim of equalization by pronouncing woman inferior
to man concerning intellectual abilities. Daily experience and the records of the past, however,
demonstrate sufficiently that many modern industrial pursuits have successfully been carried
on by female activity. Not only the occupations, which require manual dexterity and good taste,
also the higher branches of various sciences and arts have been excellently mastered by educated
ladies, performing professional duties, whose execution demands a vast amount of intelligence
and learning. Thus the official U.S. census of 1890 contained the enumeration of 2,438 doctresses;
110 female lawyers; 2,136 architectresses; and 155,000 lady teachers in public schools. Among
the students, attending the diverse colleges in the Republic, more than 18,000 are young ladies.
Even as inventors, women have distinguished themselves, as we may judge from the fact that
during the last three decades, about 2,500 patents have been granted to female claimants, and
scientific papers published--in 1884--a list of contrivances deriving their existence from
the inventiveness of females.

