Again, there runs through the length and breadth of this business community a certain measure
of incompetence or inefficiency of management, as seen from the point of view of the conceivable
perfect working of the system as a whole. It may be due to a slack attention here and there;
or to the exigencies of business strategy which may constrain given business concerns to an
occasional attitude of "watchful waiting" in the hope of catching a rival off his guard; or
to a lack of perfect mutual understanding among the discretionary businessmen, due sometimes
to an over-careful guarding of trade secrets or advance information; or, as also happens, and
quite excusably, to a lack of perfect mutual confidence among these businessmen, as to one
another's entire good faith or good-will. The system is after all a competitive one, in the
sense that each of the discretionary directors of business is working for his own pecuniary
gain, whether in cooperation with his fellows or not. "An honest man will bear watching." As
in other collusive organisations for gain, confederates are apt to fall out when it comes to
a division of what is in hand. In one way and another the system is beset with inherent infirmities,
which hinder its perfect work; and in so far it will fall short of the full realisation of
that rule of business that inculcates charging what the traffic will bear, and also in so far
the pressure which the modern system of business management brings to bear on the common man
will also fall short of the last straw--perhaps even of the next-to-the-last. Again it turns
out to be a question not of the failure of the general proposition as formulated, but rather
as to the closeness of approximation to its theoretically perfect work. It may be remarked
by the way that vigilant and impartial surveillance of this system of business enterprise by
an external authority interested only in aggregate results, rather than in the differential
gains of the interested individuals, might hopefully be counted on to correct some of these
shortcomings which the system shows when running loose under the guidance of its own multifarious
incentives.

On the opposite side of the account, it is also worth noting that, while modern business management
may now and again fall short of what the traffic will bear, it happens more commonly that its
exactions will exceed that limit. This will particularly be true in businessmen's dealings
with hired labour, as also and perhaps with equally far-reaching consequences in an excessive
recourse to sophistications and adulterants and an excessively parsimonious provision for the
safety, health or comfort of their customers--as, e.g., in passenger traffic by rail, water
or tramway. The discrepancy to which attention is invited here is due to a discrepancy between
business expediency, that is expediency for the purpose of gain by a given businessman, on
the one hand, and serviceability to the common good, on the other hand. The business concern's
interest in the traffic in which it engages is a short-term interest, or an interest in the
short-term returns, as contrasted with the long-term or enduring interest which the community
at large has in the public service over which any such given business concern disposes. The
business incentive is that afforded by the prospective net pecuniary gain from the traffic,
substantially an interest in profitable sales; while the community at large, or the common
man that goes to make up such a community, has a material interest in this traffic only as
regards the services rendered and the enduring effects that follow from it.

The businessman has not, or at least is commonly not influenced by, any interest in the ulterior
consequences of the transactions in which he is immediately engaged. This appears to hold true
in an accentuated degree in the domain of that large-scale business that draws its gains from
the large-scale modern industry and is managed on the modern footing of corporation finance.
This modern fashion of business organisation and management apparently has led to a substantial
shortening of the term over which any given investor maintains an effective interest in any
given corporate enterprise, in which his investments may be placed for the time being. With
the current practice of organising industrial and mercantile enterprises on a basis of vendible
securities, and with the nearly complete exemption from personal responsibility and enduring
personal attachment to any one corporate enterprise which this financial expedient has brought,
it has come about that in the common run of cases the investor, as well as the directorate,
in any given enterprise, has an interest only for the time being. The average term over which
it is (pecuniarily) incumbent on the modern businessman to take account of the working of any
given enterprise has shortened so far that the old-fashioned accountability, that once was
depended on to dictate a sane and considerate management with a view to permanent good-will,
has in great measure become inoperative.

By and large, it seems unavoidable that the pecuniary interests of the businessmen on the one
hand and the material interests of the community on the other hand are diverging in a more
and more pronounced degree, due to institutional circumstances over which no prompt control
can be had without immediate violation of that scheme of personal rights in which the constitution
of modern democratic society is grounded. The quandary in which these communities find themselves,
as an outcome of their entrance upon "the simple and obvious system of Natural Liberty," is
shown in a large and instructive way by what is called "labor trouble," and in a more recondite
but no less convincing fashion by the fortunes of the individual workman under the modern system.

The cost of production of a modern workman has constantly increased, with the advance of the
industrial arts. The period of preparation, of education and training, necessary to turn out
competent workmen, has been increasing; and the period of full workmanlike efficiency has been
shortening, in those industries that employ the delicate and exacting processes of the modern
technology. The shortening of this working-life of the workman is due both to a lengthening
of the necessary period of preparation, and to the demand of these processes for so full a
use of the workman's forces that even the beginning of senescence will count as a serious disability,--in
many occupations as a fatal disability. It is also a well ascertained fact that effectual old
age will be brought on at an earlier period by overwork; overwork shortens the working life-time
of the workman. Thorough speeding-up ("Scientific Management"?) will unduly shorten this working
life-time, and so it may, somewhat readily, result in an uneconomical consumption of the community's
man-power, by consuming the workmen at a higher rate of speed, a higher pressure, with a more
rapid rate of deterioration, than would give the largest net output of product per unit of
man-power available, or per unit of cost of production of such man-power.

On this head the guiding incentives of the businessman and the material interest of the community
at large--not to speak of the selfish interest of the individual workman--are systematically
at variance. The cost of production of workmen does not fall on the business concern which
employs them, at least not in such definite fashion as to make it appear that the given business
concern or businessman has a material interest in the economical consumption of the man-power
embodied in this given body of employees. Some slight and exceptional qualification of this
statement is to be noted, in those cases where the processes in use are such as to require
special training, not to be had except by a working habituation to these processes in the particular
industrial plant in question. So far as such special training, to be had only as employees
of the given concern, is a necessary part of the workman's equipment for this particular work,
so far the given employer bears a share and an interest in the cost of production of the workmen
employed; and so far, therefore, the employer has also a pecuniary interest in the economical
use of his employees; which usually shows itself in the way of some special precautions being
taken to prevent the departure of these workmen so long as there is a clear pecuniary loss
involved in replacing them with men who have not yet had the special training required. Evidently
this qualifying consideration covers no great proportion of the aggregate man-power consumed
in industrial enterprises under business management. And apart from the instances, essentially
exceptional, where such a special consideration comes in, the businessmen in charge will, quite
excusably as things go, endeavour to consume the man-power of which they dispose in the persons
of their employees, not at the rate that would be most economical to the community at large,
in view of the cost of their replacement, nor at such a rate as would best suit the taste or
the viability of the particular workman, but at such a rate as will yield the largest net pecuniary
gain to the employer.

There is on record an illustrative, and indeed an illustrious, instance of such cannily gainful
consumption of man-power carried out systematically and with consistently profitable effect
in one of the staple industries of the country. In this typical, though exceptionally thoroughgoing
and lucrative enterprise, the set rule of the management was, to employ none but select workmen,
in each respective line of work; to procure such select workmen and retain them by offering
wages slightly over the ordinary standard; to work them at the highest pace and pressure attainable
with such a picked body; and to discharge them on the first appearance of aging or of failing
powers. In the rules of the management was also included the negative proviso that the concern
assumed no responsibility for the subsequent fortunes of discharged workmen, in the way of
pension, insurance or the like.

This enterprise was highly successful and exceedingly profitable, even beyond the high average
of profits among enterprises in the same line of business. Out of it came one of the greater
and more illustrious fortunes that have been accumulated during the past century; a fortune
which has enabled one of the most impressive and most gracious of this generation's many impressive
philanthropists, never weary in well-doing; but who, through this cannily gainful consumption
of man-power, has been placed in the singular position of being unable, in spite of avowedly
unremitting endeavour, to push his continued disbursements in the service of humanity up to
the figure of his current income. The case in question is one of the most meritorious known
to the records of modern business, and while it will conveniently serve to illustrate many
an other, and perhaps more consequential truth come to realisation in the march of Triumphant
Democracy, it will also serve to show the gainfulness of an unreservedly canny consumption
of man-power with an eye single to one's own net gain in terms of money.

       *       *       *       *       *

Evidently this is a point in the articulation of the modern economic system where a sufficiently
ruthless outside authority, not actuated by a primary regard for the pecuniary interests of
the employers, might conceivably with good effect enforce a more economical consumption of
the country's man-power. It is not a matter on which one prefers to dwell, but it can do no
harm to take note of the fact for once in a way, that these several national establishments
of the democratic order, as they are now organised and administered, do somewhat uniformly
and pervasively operate with an effectual view to the advantage of a class, so far as may plausibly
be done. They are controlled by and administered in behalf of those elements of the population
that, for the purpose in hand, make up a single loose-knit class,--the class that lives by
income rather than by work. It may be called the class of the business interests, or of capital,
or of gentlemen. It all comes to much the same, for the purpose in hand.

The point in speaking of this contingent whose place in the economy of human affairs it is
to consume, or to own, or to pursue a margin of profit, is simply that of contrasting this
composite human contingent with the common man; whose numbers account for some nine-tenths
or more of the community, while his class accounts for something less than one-tenth of the
invested wealth, and appreciably less than that proportion of the discretionary national establishment,--the
government, national or local, courts, attorneys, civil service, diplomatic and consular, military
and naval. The arrangement may be called a gentlemen's government, if one would rather have
it that way; but a gentleman is necessarily one who lives on free income from invested wealth--without
such a source of free, that is to say unearned, income he becomes a decayed gentleman. Again,
pushing the phrasing back a step farther toward the ground facts, there are those who would
speak of the current establishments as "capitalistic;" but this term is out of line in that
it fails to touch the human element in the case, and institutions, such as governmental establishments
and their functioning, are after all nothing but the accustomed ways and means of human behaviour;
so that "capitalistic" becomes a synonym for "businessmen's" government so soon as it is designated
in terms of the driving incentives and the personnel. It is an organisation had with a view
to the needs of business (i.e. pecuniary) enterprise, and is made up of businessmen and gentlemen,
which comes to much the same, since a gentleman is only a businessman in the second or some
later generation. Except for the slightly odious suggestion carried by the phrase, one might
aptly say that the gentleman, in this bearing, is only a businessman gone to seed.

By and large, and taking the matter naively at the simple face value of the material gain or
loss involved, it should seem something of an idle question to the common man whether his collective
affairs are to be managed by a home-bred line of businessmen and their successive filial generations
of gentlemen, with a view to accelerate the velocity and increase the volume of competitive
gain and competitive spending, on the one hand, or by an alien line of officials, equally aloof
from his common interests, and managing affairs with a view to the usufruct of his productive
powers in furtherance of the Imperial dominion.

Not that the good faith or the generous intentions of these governments of gentlemen is questioned
or is in any degree questionable; what is here spoken of is only the practical effect of the
policies which they pursue, doubtless with benevolent intentions and well-placed complacency.
In effect, things being as they are today in the civilised world's industry and trade, it happens,
as in some sort an unintended but all-inclusive accident, that the guidance of affairs by business
principles works at cross purposes with the material interests of the common man.

So ungraceful a view of the sacred core of this modern democratic organisation will need whatever
evidence can be cited to keep it in countenance. Therefore indulgence is desired for one further
count in this distasteful recital of ineptitudes inherent in this institutional scheme of civilised
life. This count comes under the head of what may be called capitalistic sabotage. "Sabotage"
is employed to designate a wilful retardation, interruption or obstruction of industry by peaceable,
and ordinarily by legally defensible, measures. In its present application, particularly, there
is no design to let the term denote or insinuate a recourse to any expedients or any line of
conduct that is in any degree legally dubious, or that is even of questionable legitimacy.

Sabotage so understood, as not comprising recourse to force or fraud, is a necessary and staple
expedient of business management, and its employment is grounded in the elementary and indefeasible
rights of ownership. It is simply that the businessman, like any other owner, is vested with
the right freely to use or not to use his property for any given purpose. His decision, for
reasons of his own, not to employ the property at his disposal in a particular way at a particular
time, is well and blamelessly within his legitimate discretion, under the rights of property
as universally accepted and defended by modern nations. In the particular instance of the American
nation he is protected in this right by a constitutional provision that he must not be deprived
of his property without due process of law. When the property at his disposal is in the shape
of industrial plant or industrial material, means of transportation or stock of goods awaiting
distribution, then his decision not to employ this property, or to limit its use to something
less than full capacity, in the way for which it is adapted, becomes sabotage, normally and
with negligible exceptions. In so doing he hinders, retards or obstructs the working of the
country's industrial forces by so much. It is a matter of course and of absolute necessity
to the conduct of business, that any discretionary businessman must be free to deal or not
to deal in any given case; to limit or to withhold the equipment under his control, without
reservation. Business discretion and business strategy, in fact, has no other means by which
to work out its aims. So that, in effect, all business sagacity reduces itself in the last
analysis to a judicious use of sabotage. Under modern conditions of large business, particularly,
the relation of the discretionary businessman to industry is that of authoritative permission
and of authoritative limitation or stoppage, and on his shrewd use of this authority depends
the gainfulness of his enterprise.

If this authority were exercised with an eye single to the largest and most serviceable output
of goods and services, or to the most economical use of the country's material resources and
man-power, regardless of pecuniary consequences, the course of management so carried out would
be not sabotage but industrial strategy. But business is carried on for pecuniary gain, not
with an unreserved view to the largest and most serviceable output or to the economical use
of resources. The volume and serviceability of the output must wait unreservedly on the very
particular pecuniary question of what quantity and what degree of serviceability will yield
the largest net return in terms of price. Uneconomical use of equipment, labor and resources
is necessarily an everyday matter under these circumstances, as in the duplication of plant
and processes between rival concerns, and in the wasteful use of all resources that do not
involve expenditure on the part of the given concern.

It has been the traditional dogma among economists and publicists in these modern communities
that free competition between the businessmen in charge will indefeasibly act to bring the
productiveness of industry to the highest practicable pitch and would lead to the most unreserved
and vigilant endeavour to serve the community's material needs at all points. The reasons for
the failure of this genial expectation, particularly under latterday business management, might
be shown in some detail, if that were needed to enforce the argument as it runs in the present
connection. But a summary indication of the commoner varieties and effects of sabotage as it
is systematically applied in the businesslike conduct of industry will serve the purpose as
well and with less waste of words and patience.

It is usual to notice, and not unusual to deplore the duplication of plant and appliances in
many lines of industry, due to competitive management, as in factories engaged in the same
class of manufacture, in parallel or otherwise competing railways and boat lines, in retail
merchandising, and in some degree also in the wholesale trade. The result, of course, is sabotage;
in the sense that this volume of appliances, materials and workmen are not employed to the
best advantage for the community. One effect of the arrangement is an increased necessary cost
of the goods and services supplied by these means. The reason for it is competition for gain
to be got from the traffic. That all this is an untoward state of things is recognised on all
hands; but no lively regret is commonly spent on the matter, since it is commonly recognised
that under the circumstances there is no help for it except at the cost of a more untoward remedy.

The competitive system having been tried and found good--or at least so it is assumed--it is
felt that the system will have to be accepted with the defects of its qualities. Its characteristic
qualities are held to be good, acceptable to the tastes of modern men whose habits of thought
have been standardised in its terms; and it would be only reluctantly and by tardy concession
that these modern men could bring themselves to give up that scheme of "Natural Liberty" within
the framework of which runs this competitive system of business management and its wasteful
manifolding of half-idle equipment and nugatory work. The common man, at the worst, comforts
himself and his neighbour with the sage reflection that "It might have been worse." The businessmen,
on the other hand, have also begun to take note of this systematic waste by duplication and
consequent incompetence, and have taken counsel how to intercept the waste and divert it to
their own profit. The businessmen's remedy is consolidation of competing concerns, and monopoly
control.

To the common man, with his preconceptions on the head of "restraint of trade," the proposed
remedy seems more vicious than the evil it is designed to cure. The fault of the remedy plainly
is not that the mismanagement of affairs due to competitive business can not be corrected by
recourse to monopoly, but only that the community, it is presumed, would still suffer all the
burdens and discomforts of the régime of competition and sabotage, with, possibly, further
inconveniences and impositions at the hands of the businesslike monopoly; which, men are agreed,
may fairly be depended on to use its advantage unsparingly under the business principle of
charging what the traffic will bear.

There is also this other singular phenomenon in this modern industrial world, that something
not very far short of one-half the industrial equipment systematically lies idle for something
approaching one-half the time, or is worked only to one-half its capacity half the time; not
because of competition between these several industrial concerns, but because business conditions
will not allow its continued productive use; because the volume of product that would be turned
out if the equipment were working uninterruptedly at its full capacity could not be sold at
remunerative prices. From time to time one establishment and another will shut down during
a period of slack times, for the same reason.

This state of things is singular only as seen from the point of view of the community's material
interest, not that it is in any degree unfamiliar or that any serious fault is found with the
captains of industry for so shutting off the industrial process and letting the industrial
equipment lie waste. As all men know, the exigencies of business will not tolerate production
to supply the community's needs under these circumstances; although, as is equally notorious,
these slack times, when production of goods is unadvisable on grounds of business expediency,
are commonly times of wide-spread privation, "hard times," in the community at large, when
the failure of the supply is keenly felt.

It is not that the captains of industry are at fault in so failing, or refusing, to supply
the needs of the community under these circumstances, but only that they are helpless under
the exigencies of business. They can not supply the goods except for a price, indeed not except
for a remunerative price, a price which will add something to the capital values which they
are venturing in their various enterprises. So long as the exigencies of price and of pecuniary
gain rule the case, there is manifestly no escaping this enforced idleness of the country's
productive forces.

It may not be out of place also to remark, by way of parenthesis, that this highly productive
state of the industrial arts, which is embodied in the industrial plant and processes that
so are systematically and advisedly retarded or arrested under the rule of business, is at
the same time the particular pride of civilised men and the most tangible achievement of the
civilised world.

A conservative estimate of this one item of capitalistic sabotage could scarcely appraise it
at less than a twenty-five percent reduction from the normally possible productive capacity
of the community, at an average over any considerable period; and a somewhat thorough review
of the pertinent facts would probably persuade any impartial observer that, one year with another,
such businesslike enforced idleness of plant and personnel lowers the actual output of the
country's industry by something nearer fifty percent of its ordinary capacity when fully employed.
To many, such an assertion may seem extravagant, but with further reflection on the well-known
facts in the case it will seem less so in proportion as the unfamiliarity of it wears off.

However, the point of attention in the case is not the precise, nor the approximate, percentages
of this arrest and retardation, this partial neutralisation of modern improvements in the industrial
arts; it is only the notorious fact that such arrest occurs, systematically and advisedly,
under the rule of business exigencies, and that there is no corrective to be found for it that
will comport with those fundamental articles of the democratic faith on which the businessmen
necessarily proceed. Any effectual corrective would break the framework of democratic law and
order, since it would have to traverse the inalienable right of men who are born free and equal,
each freely to deal or not to deal in any pecuniary conjuncture that arises.

But it is at the same time plain enough that this, in the larger sense untoward, discrepancy
between productive capacity and current productive output can readily be corrected, in some
appreciable degree at least, by any sufficient authority that shall undertake to control the
country's industrial forces without regard to pecuniary profit and loss. Any authority competent
to take over the control and regulate the conduct of the community's industry with a view to
maximum output as counted by weight and tale, rather than by net aggregate price-income over
price-cost, can readily effect an appreciable increase in the effectual productive capacity;
but it can be done only by violating that democratic order of things within which business
enterprise runs. The several belligerent nations of Europe are showing that it can be done,
that the sabotage of business enterprise can be put aside by sufficiently heroic measures.
And they are also showing that they are all aware, and have always been aware, that the conduct
of industry on business principles is incompetent to bring the largest practicable output of
goods and services; incompetent to such a degree, indeed, as not to be tolerable in a season
of desperate need, when the nation requires the full use of its productive forces, equipment
and man-power, regardless of the pecuniary claims of individuals.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, the projected Imperial dominion is a power of the character required to bring a sufficient
corrective to bear, in case of need, on this democratic situation in which the businessmen
in charge necessarily manage the country's industry at cross purposes with the community's--that
is the common man's--material interest. It is an extraneous power, to whom the continued pecuniary
gain of these nations' businessmen is a minor consideration, a negligible consideration in
case it shall appear that the Imperial usufruct of the underlying nation's productive forces
is in any degree impaired by the businessmen's management of it for their own net gain. It
is difficult to see on what grounds of self-interest such an Imperial government could consent
to tolerate the continued management of these underlying nations' industries on business principles,
that is to say on the principle of the maximum pecuniary gain to the businesslike managers;
and recent experience seems to teach that no excessive, that is to say no inconvenient, degree
of consideration for vested rights, and the like, would long embarrass the Imperial government
in its administration of its usufruct.

It should be a reasonable expectation that, without malice and with an unprejudiced view to
its own usufruct of these underlying countries, the Imperial establishment would take due care
that no systematically, and in its view gratuitously, uneconomical methods should continue
in the ordinary conduct of their industry. Among other considerations of weight in this connection
is the fact that a contented, well-fed, and not wantonly over-worked populace is a valuable
asset in such a case. Similarly, by contraries, as an asset in usufruct to such an alien power,
a large, wealthy, spendthrift, body of gentlefolk, held in high esteem by the common people,
would have but a slight value, conceivably even a negative value, in such a case. A wise administration
would presumably look to their abatement, rather than otherwise. At this point the material
interest of the common man would seem to coincide with that of the Imperial establishment.
Still, his preconceived notions of the wisdom and beneficence of his gentlefolk would presumably
hinder his seeing the matter in that reasonable light.

Under the paramount surveillance of such an alien power, guided solely by its own interest
in the usufruct of the country and its population, it is to be presumed that class privileges
and discrimination would be greatly abated if not altogether discontinued. The point is in
some doubt, partly because this alien establishment whose dominion is in question is itself
grounded in class prerogatives and discrimination, and so, not improbably, it would carry over
into its supervision of the underlying nations something of a bias in favor of class privileges.
And a similar order of things might also result by choice of a class-system as a convenient
means of control and exploitation. The latter consideration is presumably the more cogent,
since the Imperial establishment in question is already, by ancient habit, familiar with the
method of control by class and privilege; and, indeed, unfamiliar with any other method. Such
a government, which governs without effectual advice or formal consent of the governed, will
almost necessarily rest its control of the country on an interested class, of sufficient strength
and bound by sufficiently grave interest to abet the Imperial establishment effectually in
all its adventures and enterprises.

But such a privileged order, that is to be counted in to share dynastic usufruct and liabilities,
in good days and evil, will be of a feudalistic complexion rather than something after the
fashion of a modern business community doing business by investment and pecuniary finesse.
It would still be a reasonable expectation that discrimination between pecuniary classes should
fall away under this projected alien tutelage; more particularly all such discrimination as
is designed to benefit any given class or interest at the cost of the whole, as, e.g., protective
tariffs, monopolistic concessions and immunities, engrossing of particular lines of material
resources, and the like.

The character of the economic policy to be pursued should not be difficult of apprehension,
if only these underlying peoples are conceived as an estate in tail within the dynastic line
of descent. The Imperial establishment which so is prospectively to take over the surveillance
of these modern peoples under this projected enterprise in dominion, may all the more readily
be conceived as handling its new and larger resources somewhat unreservedly as an estate to
be administered with a shrewd eye to the main chance, since such has always been its relation
to the peoples and territories whose usufruct it already enjoys. It is only that the circumstances
of the case will admit a freer and more sagacious application of those principles of usufruct
that lie at the root of the ancient Culture of the Fatherland.

       *       *       *       *       *

This excessively long, and yet incomplete, review of the presumptive material advantages to
accrue to the common man under a régime of peace by unconditional surrender to an alien dynasty,
brings the argument apparently to the conclusion that such an eventuality might be fortunate
rather than the reverse; or at least that it has its compensations, even if it is not something
to be desired. Such should particularly appear to be the presumption in case one is at all
inclined to make much of the cultural gains to be brought in under the new régime. And more
particularly should a policy of non-resistant submission to the projected new order seem expedient
in view of the exceedingly high, not to say prohibitive, cost of resistance, or even of materially
retarding its fulfillment.

CHAPTER V

PEACE AND NEUTRALITY

Considered simply on the face of the tangible material interests involved, the choice of the
common man in these premises should seem very much of a foregone conclusion, if he could persuade
himself to a sane and perspicuous consideration of these statistically apparent merits of the
case alone. It is at least safely to be presumed that he has nothing to lose, in a material
way, and there is reason to look for some slight gain in creature comforts and in security
of life and limb, consequent upon the elimination, or at least the partial disestablishment,
of pecuniary necessity as the sole bond and criterion of use and wont in economic concerns.

But man lives not by bread alone. In point of fact, and particularly as touches the springs
of action among that common run that do not habitually formulate their aspirations and convictions
in extended and grammatically defensible documentary form, and the drift of whose impulses
therefore is not masked or deflected by the illusive consistencies of set speech,--as touches
the common run, particularly, it will hold true with quite an unacknowledged generality that
the material means of life are, after all, means only; and that when the question of what things
are worth while is brought to the final test, it is not these means, nor the life conditioned
on these means, that are seen to serve as the decisive criterion; but always it is some ulterior,
immaterial end, in the pursuit of which these material means find their ulterior ground of
valuation. Neither the overt testimony nor the circumstantial evidence to this effect is unequivocal;
but seen in due perspective, and regard being had chiefly to the springs of concerted action
as shown in any massive movement of this common run of mankind, there is, after all, little
room to question that the things which commend themselves as indefeasibly worth while are the
things of the human spirit.

These ideals, aspirations, aims, ends of endeavour, are by no means of a uniform or homogeneous
character throughout the modern communities, still less throughout the civilised world, or
throughout the checkered range of classes and conditions of men; but, with such frequency and
amplitude that it must be taken as a major premise in any attempted insight into human behaviour,
it will hold true that they are of a spiritual, immaterial nature.

The caution may, parenthetically, not be out of place, that this characterisation of the ulterior
springs of action as essentially not of the nature of creature comforts, need be taken in no
wider extension than that which so is specifically given it. It will be found to apply as touches
the conduct of the common run; what modification of it might be required to make it at all
confidently applicable to the case of one and another of those classes into whose scheme of
life creature comforts enter with more pronounced effect may be more of a delicate point. But
since it is the behaviour, and the grounds of behaviour, of the common run that are here in
question, the case of their betters in this respect may conveniently be left on one side.

The question in hand touches the behavior of the common man, taken in the aggregate, in face
of the quandary into which circumstances have led him; since the question of what these modern
peoples will do is after all a question of what the common man in the aggregate will do, of
his own motion or by persuasion. His betters may be in a position to guide, persuade, cajole,
mislead, and victimise him; for among the many singular conceits that beset the common man
is the persuasion that his betters are in some way better than he, wiser, more beneficent.
But the course that may so be chosen, with or without guidance or persuasion from the superior
classes, as well as the persistence and energy with which this course is pursued, is conditioned
on the frame of mind of the common run.

Just what will be the nature and the concrete expression of these ideal aspirations that move
the common run is a matter of habitual preconceptions; and habits of thought vary from one
people to another according to the diversity of experience to which they have been exposed.
Among the Western nations the national prestige has come to seem worth while as an ulterior
end, perhaps beyond all else that is comprised in the secular scheme of things desirable to
be had or to be achieved. And in the apprehension of such of them as have best preserved the
habits of thought induced by a long experience in feudal subjection, the service of the sovereign
or the dynasty still stands over as the substantial core of the cultural scheme, upon which
sentiment and endeavour converge. In the past ages of the democratic peoples, as well as in
the present-day use and wont among subjects of the dynastic States--as e.g., Japan or Germany--men
are known to have resolutely risked, and lost, their life for the sake of the sovereign's renown,
or even to save the sovereign's life; whereas, of course, even the slightest and most nebulous
reflection would make it manifest that in point of net material utility the sovereign's decease
is an idle matter as compared with the loss of an able-bodied workman. The sovereign may always
be replaced, with some prospect of public advantage, or failing that, it should be remarked
that a regency or inter-regnum will commonly be a season of relatively economical administration.
Again, religious enthusiasm, and the furtherance of religious propaganda, may come to serve
the same general purpose as these secular ideals, and will perhaps serve it just as well. Certain
"principles," of personal liberty and of opportunity for creative self-direction and an intellectually
worthy life, perhaps may also become the idols of the people, for which they will then be willing
to risk their material fortune; and where this has happened, as among the democratic peoples
of Christendom, it is not selfishly for their own personal opportunity to live untroubled under
the light of these high principles that these opinionated men are ready to contend, but rather
impersonally for the human right which under these principles is the due of all mankind, and
particularly of the incoming and of later generations.

On these and the like intangible ends the common man is set with such inveterate predilection
that he will, on provocation, stick at nothing to put the project through. For such like ends
the common man will lay down his life; at least, so they say. There may always be something
of rhetorical affectation in it all; but, after all, there is sufficient evidence to hand of
such substance and tenacity in the common man's hold on these ideal aspirations, on these idols
of his human spirit, as to warrant the assertion that he is, rather commonly, prepared to go
to greater lengths in the furtherance of these immaterial gains that are to inure to someone
else than for any personal end of his own, in the way of creature comforts or even of personal
renown.

For such ends the common man, in democratic Christendom is, on provocation, willing to die;
or again, the patient and perhaps more far-seeing common man of pagan China is willing to live
for these idols of an inveterate fancy, through endless contumely and hard usage. The conventional
Chinese preconceptions, in the way of things that are worth while in their own right, appear
to differ from those current in the Occident in such a way that the preconceived ideal is not
to be realised except by way of continued life. The common man's accountability to the cause
of humanity, in China, is of so intimately personal a character that he can meet it only by
tenaciously holding his place in the sequence of generations; whereas among the peoples of
Christendom there has arisen out of their contentious past a preconception to the effect that
this human duty to mankind is of the nature of a debt, which can be cancelled by bankruptcy
proceedings, so that the man who unprofitably dies fighting for the cause has thereby constructively
paid the reckoning in full.

Evidently, if the common man of these modern nations that are prospectively to be brought under
tutelage of the Imperial government could be brought to the frame of mind that is habitual
with his Chinese counterpart, there should be a fair hope that pacific counsels would prevail
and that Christendom would so come in for a régime of peace by submission under this Imperial
tutelage. But there are always these preconceptions of self-will and insubordination to be
counted with among these nations, and there is the ancient habit of a contentious national
solidarity in defense of the nation's prestige, more urgent among these peoples than any sentiment
of solidarity with mankind at large, or any ulterior gain in civilisation that might come of
continued discipline in the virtues of patience and diligence under distasteful circumstances.

The occidental conception of manhood is in some considerable measure drawn in negative terms.
So much so that whenever a question of the manly virtues comes under controversy it presently
appears that at least the indispensable minimum, and indeed the ordinary marginal modicum,
of what is requisite to a worthy manner of life is habitually formulated in terms of what not.
This appearance is doubtless misleading if taken without the universally understood postulate
on the basis of which negative demands are formulated. There is a good deal of what would be
called historical accident in all this. The indispensable demands of this modern manhood take
the form of refusal to obey extraneous authority on compulsion; of exemption from coercive
direction and subservience; of insubordination, in short. But it is always understood as a
matter of course that this insubordination is a refusal to submit to irresponsible or autocratic
rule. Stated from the positive side it would be freedom from restraint by or obedience to any
authority not constituted by express advice and consent of the governed. And as near as it
may be formulated, when reduced to the irreducible minimum of concrete proviso, this is the
final substance of things which neither shame nor honour will permit the modern civilised man
to yield. To no arrangement for the abrogation of this minimum of free initiative and self-direction
will he consent to be a party, whether it touches the conditions of life for his own people
who are to come after, or as touches the fortunes of such aliens as are of a like mind on this
head and are unable to make head against invasion of these human rights from outside.

As has just been remarked, the negative form so often taken by these demands is something of
an historical accident, due to the fact that these modern peoples came into their highly esteemed
system of Natural Liberty out of an earlier system of positive checks on self-direction and
initiative; a system, in effect, very much after the fashion of that Imperial jurisdiction
that still prevails in the dynastic States--as, e.g., Germany or Japan--whose projected dominion
is now the immediate object of apprehension and repugnance. How naively the negative formulation
gained acceptance, and at the same time how intrinsic to the new dispensation was the aspiration
for free initiative, appears in the confident assertion of its most genial spokesman, that
when these positive checks are taken away, "The simple and obvious system of Natural Liberty
establishes itself of its own accord."

The common man, in these modern communities, shows a brittle temper when any overt move is
made against this heritage of civil liberty. He may not be altogether well advised in respect
of what liberties he will defend and what he will submit to; but the fact is to be counted
with in any projected peace, that there is always this refractory residue of terms not open
to negotiation or compromise. Now it also happens, also by historical accident, that these
residual principles of civil liberty have come to blend and coalesce with a stubborn preconception
of national integrity and national prestige. So that in the workday apprehension of the common
man, not given to analytic excursions, any infraction of the national integrity or any abatement
of the national prestige has come to figure as an insufferable infringement on his personal
liberty and on those principles of humanity that make up the categorical articles of the secular
creed of Christendom. The fact may be patent on reflection that the common man's substantial
interest in the national integrity is slight and elusive, and that in sober common sense the
national prestige has something less than a neutral value to him; but this state of the substantially
pertinent facts is not greatly of the essence of the case, since his preconceptions in these
premises do not run to that effect, and since they are of too hard and fast a texture to suffer
any serious abatement within such a space of time as can come in question here and now.

       *       *       *       *       *

The outlook for a speedy settlement of the world's peace on a plan of unconditional surrender
to the projected Imperial dominion seems unpromisingly dubious, in view of the stubborn temper
shown by these modern peoples wherever their preconceived ideas of right and honest living
appear to be in jeopardy; and the expediency of entering into any negotiated compact of diplomatic
engagements and assurances designed to serve as groundwork to an eventual enterprise of that
kind must therefore also be questionable in a high degree. It is even doubtful if any allowance
of time can be counted on to bring these modern peoples to a more reasonable, more worldly-wise,
frame of mind; so that they would come to see their interest in such an arrangement, or would
divest themselves of their present stubborn and perhaps fantastic prejudice against an autocratic
régime of the kind spoken for. At least for the present any such hope of a peaceable settlement
seems illusive. What may be practicable in this way in the course of time is of course still
more obscure; but argument on the premises which the present affords does not point to a substantially
different outcome in the calculable future.

For the immediate future--say, within the life-time of the oncoming generation--the spiritual
state of the peoples concerned in this international quandary is not likely to undergo so radical
a change as to seriously invalidate an argument that proceeds on the present lie of the land
in this respect. Preconceptions are a work of habit impinging on a given temperamental bent;
and where, as in these premises, the preconceptions have taken on an institutionalised form,
have become conventionalised and commonly accepted, and so have been woven into the texture
of popular common sense, they must needs be a work of protracted and comprehensive habituation
impinging on a popular temperamental bent of so general a prevalence that it may be called
congenital to the community at large. A heritable bent pervading the group within which inheritance
runs, does not change, so long as the racial complexion of the group remains passably intact;
a conventionalised, commonly established habit of mind will change only slowly, commonly not
without the passing of at least one generation, and only by grace of a sufficiently searching
and comprehensive discipline of experience. For good or ill, the current situation is to be
counted on not to lose character over night or with a revolution of the seasons, so far as
concerns these spiritual factors that make or mar the fortunes of nations.

At the same time these spiritual assets, being of the nature of habit, are also bound to change
character more or less radically, by insensible shifting of ground, but incontinently,--provided
only that the conditions of life, and therefore the discipline of experience, undergo any substantial
change. So the immediate interest shifts to the presumptive rate and character of those changes
that are in prospect, due to the unremitting change of circumstances under which these modern
peoples live and to the discipline of which they are unavoidably exposed. For the present and
for the immediate future the current state of things is a sufficiently stable basis of argument;
but assurance as to the sufficiency of the premises afforded by the current state of things
thins out in proportion as the perspective of the argument runs out into the succeeding years.
The bearing of it all is two-fold, of course. This progressive, cumulative habituation under
changing circumstances affects the case both of those democratic peoples whose fortunes are
in the hazard, and also of those dynastic States by whom the projected enterprise in dominion
is to be carried into effect.

       *       *       *       *       *

The case of the two formidable dynastic States whose names have been coupled together in what
has already been said is perhaps the more immediately interesting in the present connection.
As matters stand, and in the measure in which they continue so to stand, the case of these
is in no degree equivocal. The two dynastic establishments seek dominion, and indeed they seek
nothing else, except incidentally to and in furtherance of the main quest. As has been remarked
before, it lies in the nature of a dynastic State to seek dominion, that being the whole of
its nature in so far as it runs true to form. But a dynastic State, like any other settled,
institutionalised community of men, rests on and draws its effectual driving force from the
habit of mind of its underlying community, the common man in the aggregate, his preconceptions
and ideals as to what things are worth while. Without a suitable spiritual ground of this kind
such a dynastic State passes out of the category of formidable Powers and into that of precarious
despotism.

In both of the two States here in question the dynastic establishment and its bodyguard of
officials and gentlefolk may be counted on to persevere in the faith that now animates them,
until an uneasy displacement of sentiment among the underlying populace may in time induce
them judiciously to shift their footing. Like the ruling classes elsewhere, they are of a conservative
temper and may be counted on so to continue. They are also not greatly exposed to the discipline
of experience that makes for adaptive change in habits of life, and therefore in the correlated
habits of thought. It is always the common man that is effectually reached by any exacting
or wide-reaching change in the conditions of life. He is relatively unsheltered from any forces
that make for adaptive change, as contrasted with the case of his betters; and however sluggish
and reluctant may be his response to such discipline as makes for a displacement of outworn
preconceptions, yet it is always out of the mass of this common humanity that those movements
of disaffection and protest arise, which lead, on occasion, to any material realignment of
the institutional fabric or to any substantial shift in the line of policy to be pursued under
the guidance of their betters.

The common mass of humanity, it may be said in parenthesis, is of course not a homogeneous
body. Uncommon men, in point of native gifts of intelligence, sensibility, or personal force,
will occur as frequently, in proportion to the aggregate numbers, among the common mass as
among their betters. Since in any one of these nations of Christendom, with their all-inclusive
hybridisation, the range, frequency and amplitude of variations in hereditary endowment is
the same throughout all classes. Class differentiation is a matter of habit and convention;
and in distinction from his betters the common man is common only in point of numbers and in
point of the more general and more exacting conditions to which he is exposed. He is in a position
to be more hardly ridden by the discipline of experience, and is at the same time held more
consistently to such a body of preconceptions, and to such changes only in this body of preconceptions,
as fall in with the drift of things in a larger mass of humanity. But all the while it is the
discipline which impinges on the sensibilities of this common mass that shapes the spiritual
attitude and temper of the community and so defines what may and what may not be undertaken
by the constituted leaders. So that, in a way, these dynastic States are at the mercy of that
popular sentiment whose creatures they are, and are subject to undesired changes of direction
and efficiency in their endeavors, contingent on changes in the popular temper; over which
they have only a partial, and on the whole a superficial control.

A relatively powerful control and energetic direction of the popular temper is and has been
exercised by these dynastic establishments, with a view to its utilisation in the pursuit of
the dynastic enterprise; and much has visibly been accomplished in that way; chiefly, perhaps,
by military discipline in subordination to personal authority, and also by an unsparing surveillance
of popular education, with a view to fortify the preconceptions handed down from the passing
order as well as to eliminate all subversive innovation. Yet in spite of all the well-conceived
and shrewdly managed endeavors of the German Imperial system in this direction, e.g., there
has been evidence of an obscurely growing uneasiness, not to say disaffection, among the underlying
mass. So much so that hasty observers, and perhaps biased, have reached the inference that
one of the immediate contributory causes that led to the present war was the need of a heroic
remedy to correct this untoward drift of sentiment.

For the German people the government of the present dynastic incumbent has done all that could
(humanly speaking) be expected in the way of endeavoring to conserve the passing order and
to hold the popular imagination to the received feudalistic ideals of loyal service. And yet
the peoples of the Empire are already caught in the net of that newer order which they are
now endeavoring to break by force of arms. They are inextricably implicated in the cultural
complex of Christendom; and within this Western culture those peoples to whom it fell to lead
the exodus out of the Egypt of feudalism have come quite naturally to set the pace in all the
larger conformities of civilised life. Within the confines of Christendom today, for good or
ill, whatever usage or customary rule of conduct falls visibly short of the precedent set by
these cultural pioneers is felt to fall beneath the prescriptive commonplace level of civilisation.
Failure to adopt and make use of those tried institutional expedients on which these peoples
of the advance guard have set their mark of authentication is today presumptively a mistake
and an advantage foregone; and a people who are denied the benefit of these latterday ways
and means of civic life are uneasy with a sense of grievance at the hands of their rulers.
Besides which, the fashion in articles of institutional equipage so set by the authentic pioneers
of culture has also come to be mandatory, as a punctilio of the governmental proprieties; so
that no national establishment which aspires to a decorous appearance in the eyes of the civilised
world can longer afford to be seen without them. The forms at least must be observed. Hence
the "representative" and pseudo-representative institutions of these dynastic States.

These dynastic States among the rest have partly followed the dictates of civilised fashion,
partly yielded to the, more or less intelligent, solicitations of their subjects, or the spokesmen
of their subjects, and have installed institutional apparatus of this modern pattern--more
in point of form than of substance, perhaps. Yet in time the adoption of the forms is likely
to have an effect, if changing circumstances favor their taking effect. Such has on the whole
been the experience of those peoples who have gone before along this trail of political advance.
As instance the growth of discretionary powers under the hands of parliamentary representatives
in those cases where the movement has gone on longest and farthest; and these instances should
not be considered idle, as intimations of what may presumptively be looked for under the Imperial
establishments of Germany or Japan. It may be true that hitherto, along with the really considerable
volume of imitative gestures of discretionary deliberation delegated to these parliamentary
bodies, they have as regards all graver matters brought to their notice only been charged with
a (limited) power to talk. It may be true that, for the present, on critical or weighty measures
the parliamentary discretion extends no farther than respectfully to say: "Ja wohl!" But then,
Ja wohl is also something; and there is no telling where it may all lead to in the long course
of years. One has a vague apprehension that this "Ja wohl!" may some day come to be a customarily
necessary form of authentication, so that with-holding it (Behüt' es Gott!) may even come to
count as an effectual veto on measures so pointedly neglected. More particularly will the formalities
of representation and self-government be likely to draw the substance of such like "free institutions"
into the effectual conduct of public affairs if it turns out that the workday experiences of
these people takes a turn more conducive to habits of insubordination than has been the case
hitherto.

Indications are, again, not wanting, that even in the Empire the discipline of workday experience
is already diverging from that line that once trained the German subjects into the most loyal
and unrepining subservience to dynastic ambitions. Of course, just now, under the shattering
impact of warlike atrocities and patriotic clamour, the workday spirit of insubordination and
critical scrutiny is gone out of sight and out of hearing.

Something of this inchoate insubordination has showed itself repeatedly during the present
reign, sufficient to provoke many shrewd protective measures on the side of the dynastic establishment,
both by way of political strategy and by arbitrary control. Disregarding many minor and inconsequential
divisions of opinion and counsel among the German people during this eventful reign, the political
situation has been moving on the play of three, incipiently divergent, strains of interest
and sentiment: (a) the dynasty (together with the Agrarians, of whom in a sense the dynasty
is a part); (b) the businessmen, or commercial interest (including investors); and (c) the
industrial workmen. Doubtless it would be easier to overstate than to indicate with any nice
precision what has been the nature, and especially the degree, of this alienation of sentiment
and divergence of conscious interest among these several elements. It is not that there has
at any point been a perceptible faltering in respect of loyalty to the crown as such. But since
the crown belongs, by origin, tradition, interest and spiritual identity, in the camp of the
Agrarians, the situation has been such as would inevitably take on a character of disaffection
toward the dynastic establishment, in the conceivable absence of that strong surviving sentiment
of dynastic loyalty that still animates all classes and conditions of men in the Fatherland.
It would accordingly, again, be an overstatement to say that the crown has been standing precariously
at the apex of a political triangle, the other two corners of which are occupied by these two
divided and potentially recalcitrant elements of the body politic, held apart by class antipathy
and divergent pecuniary interest, and held in check by divided counsels; but something after
that fashion is what would have resulted under similar conditions of strain in any community
where the modern spirit of insubordination has taken effect in any large measure.

Both of these elements of incipient disturbance in the dynastic economy, the modern commercial
and working classes, are creatures of the new era; and they are systematically out of line
with the received dynastic tradition of fealty, both in respect of their pecuniary interests
and in respect of that discipline of experience to which their workday employment subjects
them. They are substantially the same two classes or groupings that came forward in the modernisation
of the British community, with a gradual segregation of interest and a consequent induced solidarity
of class sentiment and class animosities. But with the difference that in the British case
the movement of changing circumstances was slow enough to allow a fair degree of habituation
to the altered economic conditions; whereas in the German case the move into modern economic
conditions has been made so precipitately as to have carried the mediaeval frame of mind over
virtually intact into this era of large business and machine industry. In the Fatherland the
commercial and industrial classes have been called on to play their part without time to learn
their lines.

The case of the English-speaking peoples, who have gone over this course of experience in more
consecutive fashion than any others, teaches that in the long run, if these modern economic
conditions persist, one or the other or both of these creatures of the modern era must prevail,
and must put the dynastic establishment out of commission; although the sequel has not yet
been seen in this British case, and there is no ground afforded for inference as to which of
the two will have the fortune to survive and be invested with the hegemony. Meantime the opportunity
of the Imperial establishment to push its enterprise in dominion lies in the interval of time
so required for the discipline of experience under modern conditions to work out through the
growth of modern habits of thought into such modern (i.e. civilised) institutional forms and
such settled principles of personal insubordination as will put any effectual dynastic establishment
out of commission. The same interval of time, that must so be allowed for the decay of the
dynastic spirit among the German people under the discipline of life by the methods of modern
trade and industry, marks the period during which no peace compact will be practicable, except
with the elimination of the Imperial establishment as a possible warlike power. All this, of
course, applies to the case of Japan as well, with the difference that while the Japanese people
are farther in arrears, they are also a smaller, less formidable body, more exposed to outside
forces, and their mediaevalism is of a more archaic and therefore more precarious type.

What length of time will be required for this decay of the dynastic spirit among the people
of the Empire is, of course, impossible to say. The factors of the case are not of a character
to admit anything like calculation of the rate of movement; but in the nature of the factors
involved it is also contained that something of a movement in this direction is unavoidable,
under Providence. As a preliminary consideration, these peoples of the Empire and its allies,
as well as their enemies in the great war, will necessarily come out of their warlike experience
in a more patriotic and more vindictive frame of mind than that in which they entered on this
adventure. Fighting makes for malevolence. The war is itself to be counted as a set-back. A
very large proportion of those who have lived through it will necessarily carry a warlike bent
through life. By that much, whatever it may count for, the decay of the dynastic spirit--or
the growth of tolerance and equity in national sentiment, if one chooses to put it that way--will
be retarded from beforehand. So also the Imperial establishment, or whatever is left of it,
may be counted on to do everything in its power to preserve the popular spirit of loyalty and
national animosity, by all means at its disposal; since the Imperial establishment finally
rests on the effectual body of national animosity. What hindrance will come in from this agency
of retardation can at least vaguely be guessed at, in the light of what has been accomplished
in that way under the strenuously reactionary rule of the present reign.

Again, there is the chance, as there always is a chance of human folly, that the neighboring
peoples will undertake, whether jointly or severally, to restrict or prohibit trade relations
between the people of the Empire and their enemies in the present war; thereby fomenting international
animosity, as well as contributing directly to the economic readiness for war both on their
own part and on that of the Empire. This is also, and in an eminent degree, an unknown factor
in the case, on which not even a reasonable guess can be made beforehand. These are, all and
several, reactionary agencies, factors of retardation, making for continuation of the current
international situation of animosity, distrust, chicane, trade rivalry, competitive armament,
and eventual warlike enterprise.

       *       *       *       *       *

To offset these agencies of conservatism there is nothing much that can be counted on but that
slow, random, and essentially insidious working of habituation that tends to the obsolescence
of the received preconceptions; partly by supplanting them with something new, but more effectually
by their falling into disuse and decay. There is, it will have to be admitted, little of a
positive character that can be done toward the installation of a régime of peace and good-will.
The endeavours of the pacifists should suffice to convince any dispassionate observer of the
substantial futility of creative efforts looking to such an end. Much can doubtless be done
in the way of precautionary measures, mostly of a negative character, in the way especially
of removing sources of infection and (possibly) of so sterilising the apparatus of national
life that its working shall neither maintain animosities and interests at variance with the
conditions of peace nor contribute to their spread and growth.

There is necessarily little hope or prospect that any national establishment will contribute
materially or in any direct way to the obsolescence of warlike sentiments and ambitions; since
such establishments are designed for the making of war by keeping national jealousies intact,
and their accepted place in affairs is that of preparation for eventual hostilities, defensive
or offensive. Except for the contingency of eventual hostilities, no national establishment
could be kept in countenance. They would all fall into the decay of desuetude, just as has
happened to the dynastic establishments among those peoples who have (passably) lost the spirit
of dynastic aggression.

The modern industrial occupations, the modern technology, and that modern empirical science
that runs so close to the frontiers of technology, all work at cross purposes with the received
preconceptions of the nationalist order; and in a more pronounced degree they are at cross
purposes with that dynastic order of preconceptions that converges on Imperial dominion. The
like is true, with a difference, of the ways, means and routine of business enterprise as it
is conducted in the commercialised communities of today. The working of these agencies runs
to this effect not by way of deliberate and destructive antagonism, but almost wholly by force
of systematic, though unintended and incidental, neglect of those values, standards, verities,
and grounds of discrimination and conviction that make up the working realities of the national
spirit and of dynastic ambition. The working concepts of this new, essentially mechanistic,
order of human interests, do not necessarily clash with those of the old order, essentially
the order of personages and personalities; the two are incommensurable, and they are incompatible
only in the sense and degree implied in that state of the case. The profoundest and most meritorious
truths of dynastic politics can on no provocation and by no sleight of hand be brought within
the logic of that system of knowledge and appraisal of values by which the mechanistic technology
proceeds. Within the premises of this modern mechanistic industry and science all the best
values and verities of the dynastic order are simply "incompetent, irrelevant and impertinent."

There is accordingly no unavoidable clash and no necessary friction between the two schemes
of knowledge or the two habits of mind that characterise the two contrasted cultural eras.
It is only that a given individual--call him the common man--will not be occupied with both
of these incommensurable systems of logic and appreciation at the same time or bearing on the
same point; and further that in proportion as his waking hours and his mental energy are fully
occupied within the lines of one of these systems of knowledge, design and employment, in much
the same measure he will necessarily neglect the other, and in time he will lose proficiency
and interest in its pursuits and its conclusions. The man who is so held by his daily employment
and his life-long attention within the range of habits of thought that are valid in the mechanistic
technology, will, on an average and in the long run, lose his grip on the spiritual virtues
of national prestige and dynastic primacy; "for they are foolishness unto him; neither can
he know them, because they are spiritually discerned."

Not that the adepts in this modern mechanistic system of knowledge and design may not also
be very good patriots and devoted servants of the dynasty. The artless and, on the whole, spontaneous
riot of dynastic avidity displayed to the astonished eyes of their fellow craftsmen in the
neutral countries by the most eminent scientists of the Fatherland during the early months
of the war should be sufficient warning that the archaic preconceptions do not hurriedly fly
out of the window when the habits of thought of the mechanistic order come in at the door.
But with the passage of time, pervasively, by imperceptible displacement, by the decay of habitual
disuse, as well as by habitual occupation with these other and unrelated ways and means of
knowledge and belief, dynastic loyalty and the like conceptions in the realm of religion and
magic pass out of the field of attention and fall insensibly into the category of the lost
arts. Particularly will this be true of the common man, who lives, somewhat characteristically,
in the mass and in the present, and whose waking hours are somewhat fully occupied with what
he has to do.

With the commercial interests the Imperial establishment can probably make such terms as to
induce their support of the dynastic enterprise, since they can apparently always be made to
believe that an extension of the Imperial dominion will bring correspondingly increased opportunities
of trade. It is doubtless a mistake, but it is commonly believed by the interested parties,
which is just as good for the purpose as if it were true. And it should be added that in this,
as in other instances of the quest of larger markets, the costs are to be paid by someone else
than the presumed commercial beneficiaries; which brings the matter under the dearest principle
known to businessmen: that of getting something for nothing. It will not be equally easy to
keep the affections of the common man loyal to the dynastic enterprise when he begins to lose
his grip on the archaic faith in dynastic dominion and comes to realise that he has also--individually
and in the mass--no material interest even in the defense of the Fatherland, much less in the
further extension of Imperial rule.

But the time when this process of disillusionment and decay of ideals shall have gone far enough
among the common run to afford no secure footing in popular sentiment for the contemplated
Imperial enterprise,--this time is doubtless far in the future, as compared with the interval
of preparation required for a new onset. Habituation takes time, particularly such habituation
as can be counted on to derange the habitual bent of a great population in respect of their
dearest preconceptions. It will take a very appreciable space of time even in the case of a
populace so accessible to new habits of thought as the German people are by virtue of their
slight percentage of illiteracy, the very large proportion engaged in those modern industries
that constantly require some intelligent insight into mechanistic facts, the density of population
and the adequate means of communication, and the extent to which the whole population is caught
in the web of mechanically standardised processes that condition their daily life at every
turn. As regards their technological situation, and their exposure to the discipline of industrial
life, no other population of nearly the same volume is placed in a position so conducive to
a rapid acquirement of the spirit of the modern era. But, also, no other people comparable
with the population of the Fatherland has so large and well-knit a body of archaic preconceptions
to unlearn. Their nearest analogue, of course, is the Japanese nation.

In all this there is, of course, no inclination to cast a slur on the German people. In point
of racial characteristics there is no difference between them and their neighbours. And there
is no reason to question their good intentions. Indeed, it may safely be asserted that no people
is more consciously well-meaning than the children of the Fatherland. It is only that, with
their archaic preconceptions of what is right and meritorious, their best intentions spell
malevolence when projected into the civilised world as it stands today. And by no fault of
theirs. Nor is it meant to be intimated that their rate of approach to the accepted Occidental
standard of institutional maturity will be unduly slow or unduly reluctant, so soon as the
pertinent facts of modern life begin effectively to shape their habits of thought. It is only
that, human nature--and human second nature--being what it always has been, the rate of approach
of the German people to a passably neutral complexion in matters of international animosity
and aggression must necessarily be slow enough to allow ample time for the renewed preparation
of a more unsparing and redoubtable endeavour on the part of the Imperial establishment.

What makes this German Imperial establishment redoubtable, beyond comparison, is the very simple
but also very grave combination of circumstances whereby the German people have acquired the
use of the modern industrial arts in the highest state of efficiency, at the same time that
they have retained unabated the fanatical loyalty of feudal barbarism.[9] So long, and in so
far, as this conjunction of forces holds there is no outlook for peace except on the elimination
of Germany as a power capable of disturbing the peace.

[Footnote 9: For an extended discussion of this point, see Imperial Germany and the Industrial
Revolution, especially ch. v. and vi.]

It may seem invidious to speak so recurrently of the German Imperial establishment as the sole
potential disturber of the peace in Europe. The reason for so singling out the Empire for this
invidious distinction--of merit or demerit, as one may incline to take it--is that the facts
run that way. There is, of course, other human material, and no small volume of it in the aggregate,
that is of much the same character, and serviceable for the same purposes as the resources
and man-power of the Empire. But this other material can come effectually into bearing as a
means of disturbance only in so far as it clusters about the Imperial dynasty and marches under
his banners. In so speaking of the Imperial establishment as the sole enemy of a European peace,
therefore, these outlying others are taken for granted, very much as one takes the nimbus for
granted in speaking of one of the greater saints of God. There is no middle course apparent.
The old-fashioned--that is to say nineteenth-century--plan of competitive defensive armament
and a balance of powers has been tried, and it has not proved to be a success, even so early
in the twentieth century. This plan offers a substitute (Ersatz) for peace; but even as such
it has become impracticable. The modern, or rather the current late-modern, state of the industrial
arts does not tolerate it. Technological knowledge has thrown the advantage in military affairs
definitively to the offensive, particularly to the offensive that is prepared beforehand with
the suitable appliances and with men ready matured in that rigorous and protracted training
by which alone they can become competent to make warlike use of these suitable appliances provided
by the modern technology. At the same time, and by grace of the same advance in technology,
any well-designed offensive can effectually reach any given community, in spite of distance
or of other natural obstacles. The era of defensive armaments and diplomatic equilibration,
as a substitute for peace, has been definitively closed by the modern state of the industrial arts.

Of the two alternatives spoken of above, the former--peace by submission under an alien dynasty--is
presumably not a practicable solution, as has appeared in the course of the foregoing argument.

The modern nations are not spiritually ripe for it. Whether they have reached even that stage
of national sobriety, or neutrality, that would enable them to live at peace among themselves
after elimination of the Imperial Powers is still open to an uneasy doubt. It would be by a
precarious margin that they can be counted on so to keep the peace in the absence of provocation
from without the pale. Their predilection for peace goes to no greater lengths than is implied
in the formula: Peace with Honour; which assuredly does not cover a peace of non-resistance,
and which, in effect, leaves the distinction between an offensive and a defensive war somewhat
at loose ends. The national prestige is still a live asset in the mind of these peoples; and
the limit of tolerance in respect of this patriotic animosity appears to be drawn appreciably
closer than the formula cited above would necessarily presume. They will fight on provocation,
and the degree of provocation required to upset the serenity of these sportsmanlike modern
peoples is a point on which the shrewdest guesses may diverge. Still, opinion runs more and
more consistently to the effect that if these modern--say the French and the English-speaking--peoples
were left to their own devices the peace might fairly be counted on to be kept between them
indefinitely, barring unforeseen contingencies.

Experience teaches that warlike enterprise on a moderate scale and as a side interest is by
no means incompatible with such a degree of neutral animus as these peoples have yet acquired,--e.g.,
the Spanish-American war, which was made in America, or the Boer war, which was made in England.
But these wars, in spite of the dimensions which they presently took on, were after all of
the nature of episodes,--the one chiefly an extension of sportsmanship, which engaged the best
attention of only the more sportsmanlike elements, the other chiefly engineered by certain
business interests with a callous view to getting something for nothing. Both episodes came
to be serious enough, both in their immediate incidence and in their consequences; but neither
commanded the deliberate and cordial support of the community at large. There is a meretricious
air over both; and there is apparent a popular inclination to condone rather than to take pride
in these faits accomplis. The one excursion was a product of sportsmanlike bravado, fed on
boyish exuberance, fomented for mercenary objects by certain business interests and place-hunting
politicians, and incited by meretricious newspapers with a view to increase their circulation.
The other was set afoot by interested businessmen, backed by politicians, seconded by newspapers,
and borne by the community at large, in great part under misapprehension and stung by wounded
pride.

Opinions will diverge widely as to the chances of peace in a community of nations among whom
episodes of this character, and of such dimensions, have been somewhat more than tolerated
in the immediate past. But the consensus of opinion in these same countries appears to be setting
with fair consistency to the persuasion that the popular spirit shown in these and in analogous
conjunctures in the recent past gives warrant that peace is deliberately desired and is likely
to be maintained, barring unforeseen contingencies.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the large, the measures conducive to the perpetuation of peace, and necessary to be taken,
are simple and obvious; and they are largely of a negative character, exploits of omission
and neglect. Under modern conditions, and barring aggression from without, the peace is kept
by avoiding the breaking of it. It does not break of itself,--in the absence of such national
establishments as are organised with the sole ulterior view of warlike enterprise. A policy
of peace is obviously a policy of avoidance,--avoidance of offense and of occasion for annoyance.

What is required to insure the maintenance of peace among pacific nations is the neutralisation
of all those human relations out of which international grievances are wont to arise. And what
is necessary to assure a reasonable expectation of continued peace is the neutralisation of
so much of these relations as the patriotic self-conceit and credulity of these peoples will
permit. These two formulations are by no means identical; indeed, the disparity between what
could advantageously be dispensed with in the way of national rights and pretensions, and what
the common run of modern patriots could be induced to relinquish, is probably much larger than
any sanguine person would like to believe. It should be plain on slight reflection that the
greater part, indeed substantially the whole, of those material interests and demands that
now engage the policy of the nations, and that serve on occasion to set them at variance, might
be neutralised or relinquished out of hand, without detriment to any one of the peoples concerned.

The greater part of these material interests over which the various national establishments
keep watch and hold pretensions are, in point of historical derivation, a legacy from the princely
politics of what is called the "Mercantilist" period; and they are uniformly of the nature
of gratuitous interference or discrimination between the citizens of the given nation and outsiders.
Except (doubtfully) in the English case, where mercantilist policies are commonly believed
to have been adopted directly for the benefit of the commercial interest, measures of this
nature are uniformly traceable to the endeavours of the crown and its officers to strengthen
the finances of the prince and give him an advantage in warlike enterprise. They are kept up
essentially for the same eventual end of preparation for war. So, e.g., protective tariffs,
and the like discrimination in shipping, are still advocated as a means of making the nation
self-supporting, self-contained, self-sufficient; with a view to readiness in the event of
hostilities.

A nation is in no degree better off in time of peace for being self-sufficient. In point of
patent fact no nation can be industrially self-sufficient except at the cost of foregoing some
of the economic advantages of that specialisation of industry which the modern state of the
industrial arts enforces. In time of peace there is no benefit comes to the community at large
from such restraint of trade with the outside world, or to any class or section of the community
except those commercial concerns that are favored by the discrimination; and these invariably
gain their special advantage at the cost of their compatriots. Discrimination in trade--export,
import or shipping--has no more beneficial effect when carried out publicly by the national
authorities than when effected surreptitiously and illegally by a private conspiracy in restraint
of trade within a group of interested business concerns.

Hitherto the common man has found it difficult to divest himself of an habitual delusion on
this head, handed down out of the past and inculcated by interested politicians, to the effect
that in some mysterious way he stands to gain by limiting his own opportunities. But the neutralisation
of international trade, or the abrogation of all discrimination in trade, is the beginning
of wisdom as touches the perpetuation of peace. The first effect of such a neutral policy would
be wider and more intricately interlocking trade relations, coupled with a further specialisation
and mutual dependence of industry between the several countries concerned; which would mean,
in terms of international comity, a lessened readiness for warlike operations all around.

It used to be an argument of the free-traders that the growth of international commercial relations
under a free-trade policy would greatly conduce to a spirit of mutual understanding and forbearance
between the nations. There may or may not be something appreciable in the contention; it has
been doubted, and there is no considerable evidence to be had in support of it. But what is
more to the point is the tangible fact that such specialisation of industry and consequent
industrial interdependence would leave all parties to this relation less capable, materially
and spiritually, to break off amicable relations. So again, in time of peace and except with
a view to eventual hostilities, it would involve no loss, and presumably little pecuniary gain,
to any country, locality, town or class, if all merchant shipping were registered indiscriminately
under neutral colors and sailed under the neutral no-man's flag, responsible indiscriminately
to the courts where they touched or where their business was transacted.

Neither producers, shippers, merchants nor consumers have any slightest interest in the national
allegiance of the carriers of their freight, except such as may artificially be induced by
discriminatory shipping regulations. In all but the name--in time of peace--the world's merchant
shipping already comes near being so neutralised, and the slight further simplification required
to leave it on a neutral peace footing would be little else than a neglect of such vexatious
discrimination as is still in force. If no nation could claim the allegiance, and therefore
the usufruct, of any given item of merchant shipping in case of eventual hostilities, on account
of the domicile of the owners or the port of registry, that would create a further handicap
on eventual warlike enterprise and add so much to the margin of tolerance. At the same time,
in the event of hostilities, shipping sailing under the neutral no-man's flag and subject to
no national allegiance would enjoy such immunities as still inure to neutral shipping. It is
true, neutrality has not carried many immunities lately.

Cumulatively effective usage and the exigencies of a large, varied, shifting and extensive
maritime trade have in the course of time brought merchant shipping to something approaching
a neutral footing. For most, one might venture to say for virtually all, routine purposes of
business and legal liability the merchant shipping comes under the jurisdiction of the local
courts, without reservation. It is true, there still are formalities and reservations which
enable questions arising out of incidents in the shipping trade to become subject of international
conference and adjustment, but they are after all not such as would warrant the erection of
national apparatus to take care of them in case they were not already covered by usage to that
effect. The visible drift of usage toward neutralisation in merchant shipping, in maritime
trade, and in international commercial transactions, together with the similarly visible feasibility
of a closer approach to unreserved neutralisation of this whole range of traffic, suggests
that much the same line of considerations should apply as regards the personal and pecuniary
rights of citizens traveling or residing abroad. The extreme,--or, as seen from the present
point of view, the ultimate--term in the relinquishment of national pretensions along this
line would of course be the neutralisation of citizenship.

This is not so sweeping a move as a patriotically-minded person might imagine on the first
alarm, so far as touches the practical status of the ordinary citizen in his ordinary relations,
and particularly among the English-speaking peoples. As an illustrative instance, citizenship
has sat somewhat lightly on the denizens of the American republic, and with no evident damage
to the community at large or to the inhabitants in detail. Naturalisation has been easy, and
has been sought with no more eagerness, on the whole, than the notably low terms of its acquirement
would indicate. Without loss or discomfort many law-abiding aliens have settled in this country
and spent the greater part of a life-time under its laws without becoming citizens, and no
one the worse or the wiser for it. Not infrequently the decisive inducement to naturalisation
on the part of immigrant aliens has been, and is, the desirability of divesting themselves
of their rights of citizenship in the country of their origin. Not that the privilege and dignity
of citizenship, in this or in any other country, is to be held of little account. It is rather
that under modern civilised conditions, and among a people governed by sentiments of humanity
and equity, the stranger within our gates suffers no obloquy and no despiteful usage for being
a stranger. It may be admitted that of late, with the fomentation of a more accentuated nationalism
by politicians seeking a raison d'être, additional difficulties have been created in the way
of naturalisation and the like incidents. Still, when all is told of the average American citizen,
qua citizen, there is not much to tell. The like is true throughout the English-speaking peoples,
with inconsequential allowance for local color. A definitive neutralisation of citizenship
within the range of these English-speaking countries would scarcely ripple the surface of things
as they are--in time of peace.

All of which has not touched the sore and sacred spot in the received scheme of citizenship
and its rights and liabilities. It is in the event of hostilities that the liabilities of the
citizen at home come into the foreground, and it is as a source of patriotic grievance looking
to warlike retaliation that the rights of the citizen abroad chiefly come into the case.

If, as was once, almost inaudibly, hinted by a well-regarded statesman, the national establishment
should refuse to jeopardise the public peace for the safeguarding of the person and property
of citizens who go out in partes infidelium on their own private concerns, and should so leave
them under the uncurbed jurisdiction of the authorities in those countries into which they
have intruded, the result might in many cases be hardship to such individuals. This would,
of course, be true almost exclusively of such instances only as occur in such localities as
are, temporarily or permanently, outside the pale of modern law and order. And, it may be in
place to remark, instances of such hardship, with the accompanying hazard of national complications,
would, no doubt, greatly diminish in frequency consequent upon the promulgation of such a disclaimer
of national responsibility for the continued well-being of citizens who so expatriate themselves
in the pursuit of their own advantage or amusement. Meantime, let it not seem inconsiderate
to recall that to the community at large the deplorable case of such expatriates under hardship
involves no loss or gain in the material respect; and that, except for the fortuitous circumstance
of his being a compatriot, the given individual's personal or pecuniary fortune in foreign
parts has no special claim on his compatriots' sympathy or assistance; from which it follows
also that with the definitive neutralisation of citizenship as touches expatriates, the sympathy
which is now somewhat unintelligently confined to such cases, on what may without offense be
called extraneous grounds, would somewhat more impartially and humanely extend to fellowmen
in distress, regardless of nativity or naturalisation.

What is mainly to the point here, however, is the fact that if citizenship were so neutralised
within the range of neutral countries here contemplated, one further source of provocation
to international jealousy and distrust would drop out of the situation. And it is not easy
to detect any element of material loss involved in such a move. In the material respect no
individual would be any the worse off, with the doubtful and dubious exception of the expatriate
fortune-hunter, who aims to fish safely in troubled waters at his compatriots' expense. But
the case stands otherwise as regards the balance of immaterial assets. The scaffolding of much
highly-prized sentiment would collapse, and the world of poetry and pageantry--particularly
that of the tawdrier and more vendible poetry and pageantry--would be poorer by so much. The
Man Without a Country would lose his pathetic appeal, or would at any rate lose much of it.
It may be, of course, that in the sequel there would result no net loss even in respect of
these immaterial assets of sentimental animation and patriotic self-complacency, but it is
after all fairly certain that something would be lost, and it is by no means clear what if
anything would come in to fill its place.

An historical parallel may help to illustrate the point. In the movement out of what may be
called the royal age of dynasties and chivalric service, those peoples who have moved out of
that age and out of its spiritual atmosphere have lost much of the conscious magnanimity and
conviction of merit that once characterised that order of things, as it still continues to
characterise the prevalent habit of mind in the countries that still continue under the archaic
order of dynastic mastery and service. But it is also to be noted that these peoples who so
have moved out of the archaic order appear to be well content with this change of spiritual
atmosphere, and they are even fairly well persuaded, in the common run, that the move has brought
them some net gain in the way of human dignity and neighbourly tolerance, such as to offset
any loss incurred on the heroic and invidious side of life. Such is the tempering force of
habit. Whereas, e.g., on the other hand, the peoples of these surviving dynastic States, to
which it is necessary continually to recur, who have not yet moved out of that realm of heroics,
find themselves unable to see anything in such a prospective shift but net loss and headlong
decay of the spirit; that modicum of forbearance and equity that is requisite to the conduct
of life in a community of ungraded masterless men is seen by these stouter stomachs as a loosening
of the moral fiber and a loss of nerve.

       *       *       *       *       *

What is here tentatively projected under the phrase, "neutralization of citizenship," is only
something a little more and farther along the same general line of movement which these more
modern peoples have been following in all that sequence of institutional changes that has given
them their present distinctive character of commonwealths, as contrasted with the dynastic
States of the mediaeval order. What may be in prospect--if such a further move away from the
mediaeval landmarks is to take effect--may best be seen in the light of the later moves in
the same direction hitherto, more particularly as regards the moral and aesthetic merits at
large of such an institutional mutation. As touches this last previous shifting of ground along
this line, just spoken of, the case stands in this singular but significant posture, in respect
of the spiritual values and valuations involved: These peoples who have, even in a doubtful
measure, made this transition from the archaic institutional scheme, of fealty and dynastic
exploit and coercion, to the newer scheme of the ungraded commonwealth, are convinced, to the
point of martyrdom, that anything like a return to the old order is morally impossible as well
as insufferably shameful and irksome; whereas those people, of the retarded division of the
race, who have had no experience of this new order, are equally convinced that it is all quite
incompatible with a worthy life.

Evidently, there should be no disputing about tastes. Evidently, too, these retarded others
will not move on into the later institutional phase, of the ungraded commonwealth, by preconceived
choice; but only, if at all, by such schooling of experience as will bring them insensibly
to that frame of mind out of which the ideal of the ungraded commonwealth emerges by easy generalisation
of workday practice. Meantime, having not yet experienced that phase of sentiment and opinion
on civic rights and immunities that is now occupied by their institutionally maturer neighbours,
the subjects of the Imperial Fatherland, e.g., in spite of the most laudable intentions and
the best endeavour, are, by failure of this experience, unable to comprehend either the ground
of opposition to their well-meaning projects of dominion or the futility of trying to convert
these their elder brothers to their own prescriptive acceptation of what is worth while. In
time, and with experience, this retarded division of Christendom may come to the same perspective
on matters of national usage and ideals as has been enforced on the more modern peoples by
farther habituation. So, also, in time and with experience, if the drift of circumstance shall
turn out to set that way, the further move away from mediaeval discriminations and constraint
and into the unspectacular scheme of neutralisation may come to seem as right, good and beautiful
as the democratic commonwealth now seems to the English-speaking peoples, or as the Hohenzollern
Imperial State now seems to the subjects of the Fatherland. There is, in effect, no disputing
about tastes.

There is little that is novel, and nothing that is to be rated as constructive innovation,
in this sketch of what might not inaptly be called peace by neglect. The legal mind, which
commonly takes the initiative in counsels on what to do, should scarcely be expected to look
in that direction for a way out, or to see its way out in that direction in any case; so that
it need occasion no surprise if the many current projects of pacification turn on ingenious
and elaborate provisions of apparatus and procedure, rather than on that simpler line of expedients
which the drift of circumstance, being not possessed of a legal mind, has employed in the sequence
of institutional change hitherto. The legal mind that dominates in the current deliberations
on peace is at home in exhaustive specifications and meticulous demarkations, and it is therefore
prone to seek a remedy for the burden of supernumerary devices by recourse to further excesses
of regulation.

This trait of the legal mind is not a bad fault at the worst, and the quality in which this
defect inheres is of the greatest moment in any project of constructive engineering on the
legal and political plane. But it is less to the purpose, indeed it is at cross purposes, in
such a conjuncture as the present; when the nations are held up in their quest of peace chiefly
by an accumulation of institutional apparatus that has out-stayed its usefulness. It is the
fortune even of good institutions to become imbecile with the change of conditioning circumstances,
and it then becomes a question of their disestablishment, not of their rehabilitation. If there
is anywhere a safe negative conclusion, it is that an institution grown mischievous by obsolescence
need not be replaced by a substitute.

Instances of such mischievous institutional arrangements, obsolete or in process of obsolescence,
would be, e.g., the French monarchy of the ancient régime, the Spanish Inquisition, the British
corn laws and the "rotten boroughs," the Barbary pirates, the Turkish rule in Armenia, the
British crown, the German Imperial Dynasty, the European balance of powers, the Monroe Doctrine.
In some sense, at least in the sense and degree implied in their selective survival, these
various articles of institutional furniture, and many like them, have once presumably been
suitable to some end, in the days of their origin and vigorous growth; and they have at least
in some passable fashion met some felt want; but if they ever had a place and use in the human
economy they have in time grown imbecile and mischievous by force of changing circumstances,
and the question is not how to replace them with something else to the same purpose after their
purpose is outworn. A man who loses a wart off the end of his nose does not apply to the Ersatz
bureau for a convenient substitute.

Now, a large proportion, perhaps even substantially the whole, of the existing apparatus of
international rights, pretensions, discriminations, covenants and provisos, visibly fall in
that class, in so far as concerns their material serviceability to the nation at large, and
particularly as regards any other than a warlike purpose, offensive or defensive. Of course,
the national dignity and diplomatic punctilio, and the like adjuncts and instrumentalities
of the national honour, all have their prestige value; and they are not likely to be given
up out of hand. In point of fact, however solicitous for a lasting peace these patriotically-minded
modern peoples may be, it is doubtful if they could be persuaded to give up any appreciable
share of these appurtenances of national jealousy even when their retention implies an imminent
breach of the peace. Yet it is plain that the peace will be secure in direct proportion to
the measure in which national discrimination and prestige are allowed to pass into nothingness
and be forgot.

       *       *       *       *       *

By so much as it might amount to, such neutralisation of outstanding interests between these
pacific nations should bring on a degree of coalescence of these nationalities. In effect,
they are now held apart in many respects by measures of precaution against their coming to
a common plan of use and wont. The degree of coalescence would scarcely be extreme; more particularly
it could not well become onerous, since it would rest on convenience, inclination and the neglect
of artificial discrepancies. The more intimate institutions of modern life, that govern human
conduct locally and in detail, need not be affected, or not greatly affected, for better or
worse. Yet something appreciable in that way might also fairly be looked for in time.

The nature, reach and prescriptive force of this prospective coalescence through neutralisation
may perhaps best be appreciated in the light of what has already come to pass, without design
or mandatory guidance, in those lines of human interest where the national frontiers interpose
no bar, or at least no decisive bar, whether by force of unconcern or through impotence. Fashions
of dress, equipage and decorous usage, e.g., run with some uniformity throughout these modern
nations, and indeed with some degree of prescriptive force. There is, of course, nothing mandatory,
in the simpler sense, about all this; nor is the degree of conformity extreme or uniform throughout.
But it is a ready-made generalisation that only those communities are incorporated in this
cosmopolitan coalescence of usage that are moved by their own incitement, and only so far as
they have an effectually felt need of conformity in these premises. It is true, a dispassionate
outsider, if such there be, would perhaps be struck by the degree of such painstaking conformity
to canons of conduct which it frequently must cost serious effort even to ascertain in such
detail as the case calls for. Doubtless, or at least presumably, conformity under the jurisdiction
of the fashions, and in related provinces of decorum, is obligatory in a degree that need not
be looked for throughout the scheme of use and wont at large, even under the advisedly established
non-interference of the authorities. Still, on a point on which the evidence hitherto is extremely
scant it is the part of discretion to hold no settled opinion.

A more promising line of suggestion is probably that afforded by the current degree of contact
and consistency among the modern nations in respect of science and scholarship, as also in
the aesthetic or the industrial arts. Local color and local pride, with one thing and another
in the way of special incitement or inhibition, may come in to vary the run of things, or to
blur or hinder a common understanding and mutual furtherance and copartnery in these matters
of taste and intellect. Yet it is scarcely misleading to speak of the peoples of Christendom
as one community in these respects. The sciences and the arts are held as a joint stock among
these peoples, in their elements, and measurably also in their working-out. It is true, these
interests and achievements of the race are not cultivated with the same assiduity or with identical
effect throughout; but it is equally true that no effectual bar could profitably be interposed,
or would be tolerated in the long run in this field, where men have had occasion to learn that
unlimited collusion is more to the purpose than a clannish discrimination.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is, no doubt, beyond reasonable hope that these democratic peoples could be brought forthwith
to concerted action on the lines of such a plan of peace by neutralisation of all outstanding
national pretensions. Both the French and the English-speaking peoples are too eagerly set
on national aims and national prestige, to allow such a plan to come to a hearing, even if
something of the kind should be spoken for by their most trusted leaders. By settled habit
they are thinking in terms of nationality, and just now they are all under the handicap of
an inflamed national pride. Advocacy of such a plan, of course, does not enter seriously into
the purpose of this inquiry; which is concerned with the conditions under which peace is sought
today, with the further conditions requisite to its perpetuation, and with the probable effects
of such a peace on the fortunes of these peoples in case peace is established and effectually
maintained.

It is a reasonable question, and one to which a provisional answer may be found, whether the
drift of circumstances in the present and for the immediate future may be counted on to set
in the direction of a progressive neutralisation of the character spoken of above, and therefore
possibly toward a perpetuation of that peace that is to follow the present season of war. So
also is it an open and interesting question whether the drift in that direction, if such is
the set of it, can be counted on to prove sufficiently swift and massive, so as not to be overtaken
and overborne by the push of agencies that make for dissension and warlike enterprise.

Anything like a categorical answer to these questions would have to be a work of vaticination
or of effrontery,--possibly as much to the point the one as the other. But there are certain
conditions precedent to a lasting peace as the outcome of events now in train, and there are
certain definable contingencies conditioned on such current facts as the existing state of
the industrial arts and the state of popular sentiment, together with the conjuncture of circumstances
under which these factors will come into action.

The state of the industrial arts, as it bears on the peace and its violation, has been spoken
of above. It is of such a character that a judiciously prepared offensive launched by any Power
of the first rank at an opportune time can reach and lay waste any given country of the habitable
globe. The conclusive evidence of this is at hand, and it is the major premise underlying all
current proposals and projects of peace, as well as the refusal of the nations now on the defensive
to enter into negotiations looking to an "inconclusive peace." This state of the case is not
commonly recognised in so many words, but it is well enough understood. So that all peace projects
that shall hope to find a hearing must make up their account with it, and must show cause why
they should be judged competent to balk any attempted offensive. In an inarticulate or inchoate
fashion, perhaps, but none the less with ever-increasing certitude and increasing apprehension,
this state of the case is also coming to be an article of popular "knowledge and belief," wherever
much or little thought is spent on the outlook for peace. It has already had a visible effect
in diminishing the exclusiveness of nationalities and turning the attention of the pacific
peoples to the question of feasible ways and means of international cooperation in case of
need; but it has not hitherto visibly lessened the militant spirit among these nations, nor
has it lowered the tension of their national pride, at least not yet; rather the contrary, in fact.

The effect, upon the popular temper, of this inchoate realisation of the fatality that so lies
in the modern state of the industrial arts, varies from one country to another, according to
the varying position in which they are placed, or in which they conceive themselves to be placed.
Among the belligerent nations it has put the spur of fear to their need of concerted action
as well as to their efforts to strengthen the national defense. But the state of opinion and
sentiment abroad in the nation in time of war is no secure indication of what it will be after
the return to peace. The American people, the largest and most immediately concerned of the
neutral nations, should afford more significant evidence of the changes in the popular attitude
likely to follow from a growing realisation of this state of the case, that the advantage has
passed definitively to any well prepared and resolute offensive, and that no precautions of
diplomacy and no practicable measures of defensive armament will any longer give security,--provided
always that there is anywhere a national Power actuated by designs of imperial dominion.

It is, of course, only little by little that the American people and their spokesmen have come
to realise their own case under this late-modern situation, and hitherto only in an imperfect
degree. Their first response to the stimulus has been a display of patriotic self-sufficiency
and a move to put the national defense on a war-footing, such as would be competent to beat
off all aggression. Those elements of the population who least realise the gravity of the situation,
and who are at the same time commercially interested in measures of armament or in military
preferment, have not begun to shift forward beyond this position of magniloquence and resolution;
nor is there as yet much intimation that they see beyond it, although there is an ever-recurring
hint that they in a degree appreciate the practical difficulty of persuading a pacific people
to make adequate preparation beforehand, in equipment and trained man-power, for such a plan
of self-sufficient self-defense. But increasingly among those who are, by force of temperament
or insight or by lack of the pecuniary and the placeman's interest, less confident of an appeal
to the nation's prowess, there is coming forward an evident persuasion that warlike preparations--"preparedness"--alone
and carried through by the Republic in isolation, will scarcely serve the turn.

There are at least two lines of argument, or of persuasion, running to the support of such
a view; readiness for a warlike defense, by providing equipment and trained men, might prove
a doubtfully effectual measure even when carried to the limit of tolerance that will always
be reached presently in any democratic country; and then, too, there is hope of avoiding the
necessity of such warlike preparation, at least in the same extreme degree, by means of some
practicable working arrangement to be effected with other nations who are in the same case.
Hitherto the farthest reach of these pacific schemes for maintaining the peace, or for the
common defense, has taken the shape of a projected league of neutral nations to keep the peace
by enforcement of specified international police regulations or by compulsory arbitration of
international disputes. It is extremely doubtful how far, if at all, popular sentiment of any
effectual force falls in with this line of precautionary measures. Yet it is evident that popular
sentiment, and popular apprehension, has been stirred profoundly by the events of the past
two years, and the resulting change that is already visible in the prevailing sentiment as
regards the national defense would argue that more far-reaching changes in the same connection
are fairly to be looked for within a reasonable allowance of time.

In this American case the balance of effectual public opinion hitherto is to all appearance
quite in doubt, but it is also quite unsettled. The first response has been a display of patriotic
emotion and national self-assertion. The further, later and presumably more deliberate, expressions
of opinion carry a more obvious note of apprehension and less of stubborn or unreflecting national
pride. It may be too early to anticipate a material shift of base, to a more neutral, or less
exclusively national footing in matters of the common defense.

The national administration has been moving at an accelerated rate in the direction not of
national isolation and self-reliance resting on a warlike equipment formidable enough to make
or break the peace at will--such as the more truculent and irresponsible among the politicians
have spoken for--but rather in the direction of moderating or curtailing all national pretensions
that are not of undoubted material consequence, and of seeking a common understanding and concerted
action with those nationalities whose effectual interests in the matters of peace and war coincide
with the American. The administration has grown visibly more pacific in the course of its exacting
experience,--more resolutely, one might even say more aggressively pacific; but the point of
chief attention in all this strategy of peace has also visibly been shifting somewhat from
the maintenance of a running equilibrium between belligerents and a keeping of the peace from
day to day, to the ulterior and altogether different question of what is best to be done toward
a conclusive peace at the close of hostilities, and the ways and means of its subsequent perpetuation.

This latter is, in effect, an altogether different question from that of preserving neutrality
and amicable relations in the midst of importunate belligerents, and it may even, conceivably,
perhaps not unlikely, come to involve a precautionary breach of the current peace and a taking
of sides in the war with an urgent view to a conclusive outcome. It would be going too far
to impute to the administration, at the present stage, such an aggressive attitude in its pursuit
of a lasting peace as could be called a policy of defensive offense; but it will shock no one's
sensibilities to say that such a policy, involving a taking of sides and a renouncing of national
isolation, is visibly less remote from the counsels of the administration today than it has
been at any earlier period.

In this pacific attitude, increasingly urgent and increasingly far-reaching and apprehensive,
the administration appears to be speaking for the common man rather than for the special interests
or the privileged classes. Such would appear, on the face of the returns, to be the meaning
of the late election. It is all the more significant on that account, since in the long run
it is after all the common man that will have to pass on the expediency of any settled line
of policy and to bear the material burden of carrying it into effect.

It may seem rash to presume that a popularly accredited administration in a democratic country
must approximately reflect the effectual changes of popular sentiment and desire. Especially
would it seem rash to anyone looking on from the point of view of an undemocratic nation, and
therefore prone to see the surface fluctuations of excitement and shifting clamor. But those
who are within the democratic pale will know that any administration in such a country, where
official tenure and continued incumbency of the party rest on a popular vote,--any such administration
is a political organisation and is guided by political expediency, in the tawdry sense of the
phrase. Such a political situation has the defects of its qualities, as has been well and frequently
expounded by its critics, but it has also the merits of its shortcomings. In a democracy of
this modern order any incumbent of high office is necessarily something of a politician, quite
indispensably so; and a politician at the same time necessarily is something of a demagogue.
He yields to the popular drift, or to the set of opinion and demands among the effective majority
on whom he leans; and he can not even appear to lead, though he may surreptitiously lead opinion
in adroitly seeming to reflect it and obey it. Ostensible leadership, such as has been staged
in this country from time to time, has turned out to be ostensible only. The politician must
be adroit; but if he is also to be a statesman he must be something more. He is under the necessity
of guessing accurately what the drift of events and opinion is going to be on the next reach
ahead; and in taking coming events by the forelock he may be able to guide and shape the drift
of opinion and sentiment somewhat to his own liking. But all the while he must keep within
the lines of the long-term set of the current as it works out in the habits of thought of the
common man.

Such foresight and flexibility is necessary to continued survival, but flexibility of convictions
alone does not meet the requirements. Indeed, it has been tried. It is only the minor politicians--the
most numerous and long-lived, it is true--who can hold their place in the crevices of the party
organisation, and get their livelihood from the business of party politics, without some power
of vision and some hazard of forecast. It results from this state of the case that the drift
of popular sentiment and the popular response to the stimulus of current events is reflected
more faithfully and more promptly by the short-lived administrations of a democracy than by
the stable and formally irresponsible governmental establishments of the older order. It should
also be noted that these democratic administrations are in a less advantageous position for
the purpose of guiding popular sentiment and shaping it to their own ends.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, it happens that at no period within the past half-century has the course of events moved
with such celerity or with so grave a bearing on the common good and the prospective contingencies
of national life as during the present administration. This apparent congruity of the administration's
policy with the drift of popular feeling and belief will incline anyone to put a high rating
on the administration's course of conduct, in international relations as well as in national
measures that have a bearing on international relations, as indicating the course taken by
sentiment and second thought in the community at large,--for, in effect, whether or not in
set form, the community at large reflects on any matters of such gravity and urgency as to
force themselves upon the attention of the common man.

Two main lines of reflection have visibly been enforced on the administration by the course
of events in the international field. There has been a growing apprehension, mounting in the
later months to something like the rank of a settled conviction, that the Republic has been
marked down for reduction to a vassal state by the dynastic Empire now engaged with its European
adversaries. In so saying that the Republic has been marked down for subjection it is not intended
to intimate that deliberate counsel has been had by the Imperial establishment on that prospective
enterprise; still less that a resolution to such effect, with specification of ways and means,
has been embodied in documentary form and deposited for future reference in the Imperial archives.
All that is intended, and all that is necessary to imply, is that events are in train to such
effect that the subjugation of the American republic will necessarily find its place in the
sequence presently, provided that the present Imperial adventure is brought to a reasonably
auspicious issue; though it does not follow that this particular enterprise need be counted
on as the next large adventure in dominion to be undertaken when things again fall into promising
shape. This latter point would, of course, depend on the conjuncture of circumstances, chief
of which would have to be the exigencies of imperial dominion shaping the policy of the Empire's
natural and necessary ally in the Far East. All this has evidently been coming more and more
urgently into the workday deliberations of the American administration. Of course, it is not
spoken of in set terms to this effect in official utterances, perhaps not even within doors;
that sort of thing is not done. But it can do no harm to use downright expressions in a scientific
discussion of these phenomena, with a view to understanding the current drift of things in
this field.

Beyond this is the similar apprehension, similarly though more slowly and reluctantly rising
to the level of settled conviction, that the American commonwealth is not fit to take care
of its own case single-handed. This apprehension is enforced more and more unmistakably with
every month that passes on the theatre of war. And it is reenforced by the constantly more
obvious reflection that the case of the American commonwealth in this matter is the same as
that of the democratic countries of Europe, and of the other European colonies. It is not,
or at least one may believe it is not yet, that in the patriotic apprehension of the common
man, or of the administration which speaks for him, the resources of the country would be inadequate
to meet any contingencies of the kind that might arise, whether in respect of industrial capacity
or in point of man-power, if these resources were turned to this object with the same singleness
of purpose and the same drastic procedure that marks the course of a national establishment
guided by no considerations short of imperial dominion. The doubt presents itself rather as
an apprehension that the cost would be extravagantly high, in all respects in which cost can
be counted; which is presently seconded, on very slight reflection and review of experience,
by recognition of the fact that a democracy is, in point of fact, not to be persuaded to stand
under arms interminably in mere readiness for a contingency, however distasteful the contingency
may be.

In point of fact, a democratic commonwealth is moved by other interests in the main, and the
common defense is a secondary consideration, not a primary interest,--unless in the exceptional
case of a commonwealth so placed under the immediate threat of invasion as to have the common
defense forced into the place of paramount consequence in its workday habits of thought. The
American republic is not so placed. Anyone may satisfy himself by reasonable second thought
that the people of this nation are not to be counted on to do their utmost in time of peace
to prepare for war. They may be persuaded to do much more than has been their habit, and adventurous
politicians may commit them to much more than the people at large would wish to undertake,
but when all is done that can be counted on for a permanency, up to the limit of popular tolerance,
it would be a bold guess that should place the result at more than one-half of what the country
is capable of. Particularly would the people's patience balk at the extensive military training
requisite to put the country in an adequate position of defense against a sudden and well-prepared
offensive. It is otherwise with a dynastic State, to the directorate of which all other interests
are necessarily secondary, subsidiary, and mainly to be considered only in so far as they are
contributory to the nation's readiness for warlike enterprise.

America at the same time is placed in an extra-hazardous position, between the two seas beyond
which to either side lie the two Imperial Powers whose place in the modern economy of nations
it is to disturb the peace in an insatiable quest of dominion. This position is no longer defensible
in isolation, under the later state of the industrial arts, and the policy of isolation that
has guided the national policy hitherto is therefore falling out of date. The question is as
to the manner of its renunciation, rather than the fact of it. It may end in a defensive copartnership
with other nations who are placed on the defensive by the same threatening situation, or it
may end in a bootless struggle for independence, but the choice scarcely extends beyond this
alternative. It will be said, of course, that America is competent to take care of itself and
its Monroe doctrine in the future as in the past. But that view, spoken for cogently by thoughtful
men and by politicians looking for party advantage, overlooks the fact that the modern technology
has definitively thrown the advantage to the offensive, and that intervening seas can no longer
be counted on as a decisive obstacle. On this latter head, what was reasonably true fifteen
years ago is doubtful today, and it is in all reasonable expectation invalid for the situation
fifteen years hence.

The other peoples that are of a neutral temper may need the help of America sorely enough in
their endeavours to keep the peace, but America's need of cooperation is sorer still, for the
Republic is coming into a more precarious place than any of the others. America is also, at
least potentially, the most democratic of the greater Powers, and is handicapped with all the
disabilities of a democratic commonwealth in the face of war. America is also for the present,
and perhaps for the calculable future, the most powerful of these greater Powers, in point
of conceivably available resources, though not in actually available fighting-power; and the
entrance of America unreservedly into a neutral league would consequently be decisive both
of the purposes of the league and of its efficiency for the purpose; particularly if the neutralisation
of interests among the members of the league were carried so far as to make withdrawal and
independent action disadvantageous.

On the establishment of such a neutral league, with such neutralisation of national interests
as would assure concerted action in time of stress, the need of armament on the part of the
American republic would disappear, at least to the extent that no increase of armed force would
be advisable. The strength of the Republic lies in its large and varied resources and the unequalled
industrial capacity of its population,--a capacity which is today seriously hampered by untoward
business interests and business methods sheltered under national discrimination, but which
would come more nearly to its own so soon as these national discriminations were corrected
or abrogated in the neutralisation of national pretensions. The neutrally-minded countries
of Europe have been constrained to learn the art of modern war, as also to equip themselves
with the necessary appliances, sufficient to meet all requirements for keeping the peace through
such a period as can or need be taken into account,--provided the peace that is to come on
the conclusion of the present war shall be placed on so "conclusive" a footing as will make
it anything substantially more than a season of recuperation for that warlike Power about whose
enterprise in dominion the whole question turns. Provided that suitably "substantial guarantees"
of a reasonable quiescence on the part of this Imperial Power are had, there need be no increase
of the American armament. Any increased armament would in that case amount to nothing better
than an idle duplication of plant and personnel already on hand and sufficient to meet the
requirements.

To meet the contingencies had in view in its formation, such a league would have to be neutralised
to the point that all pertinent national pretensions would fall into virtual abeyance, so that
all the necessary resources at the disposal of the federated nations would automatically come
under the control of the league's appointed authorities without loss of time, whenever the
need might arise. That is to say, national interests and pretensions would have to give way
to a collective control sufficient to insure prompt and concerted action. In the face of such
a neutral league Imperial Japan alone would be unable to make a really serious diversion or
to entertain much hope of following up its quest of dominion. The Japanese Imperial establishment
might even be persuaded peaceably to let its unoffending neighbours live their own life according
to their own light. It is, indeed, possibly the apprehension of some such contingency that
has hurried the rapacity of the Island Empire into the headlong indecencies of the past year
or two.

CHAPTER VI

ELIMINATION OF THE UNFIT

It may seem early (January 1917) to offer a surmise as to what must be the manner of league
into which the pacific nations are to enter and by which the peace will be kept, in case such
a move is to be made. But the circumstances that are to urge such a line of action, and that
will condition its carrying out in case it is entered on, have already come into bearing and
should, on the whole, no longer be especially obscure to anyone who will let the facts of the
case rather than his own predilections decide what he will believe. By and large, the pressure
of these conditioning circumstances may be seen, and the line of least resistance under this
pressure may be calculated, with due allowance of a margin of error owing to unknown contingencies
of time and minor variables.

Time is of the essence of the case. So that what would have been dismissed as idle vapour two
years ago has already become subject of grave deliberation today, and may rise to paramount
urgency that far hence. Time is needed to appreciate and get used to any innovation of appreciable
gravity, particularly where the innovation depends in any degree on a change in public sentiment,
as in this instance. The present outlook would seem to be that no excess of time is allowed
in these premises; but it should also be noted that events are moving with unexampled celerity,
and are impinging on the popular apprehension with unexampled force,--unexampled on such a
scale. It is hoped that a recital of these circumstances that provoke to action along this
line will not seem unwarrantably tedious, and that a tentative definition of the line of least
resistance under pressure of these circumstances may not seem unwarrantably presumptuous.

The major premise in the case is the felt need of security from aggression at the hands of
Imperial Germany and its auxiliary Powers; seconded by an increasingly uneasy apprehension
as to the prospective line of conduct on the part of Imperial Japan, bent on a similar quest
of dominion. There is also the less articulate apprehension of what, if anything, may be expected
from Imperial Russia; an obscure and scarcely definable factor, which comes into the calculation
chiefly by way of reenforcing the urgency of the situation created by the dynastic ambitions
of these other two Imperial States. Further, the pacific nations, the leading ones among them
being the French and English-speaking peoples, are coming to recognise that no one among them
can provide for its own security single-handed, even at the cost of their utmost endeavour
in the way of what is latterly called "preparedness;" and they are at the same time unwilling
to devote their force unreservedly to warlike preparation, having nothing to gain. The solution
proposed is a league of the pacific nations, commonly spoken of at the present stage as a league
to enforce peace, or less ambitiously as a league to enforce arbitration. The question being
left somewhat at loose ends, whether the projected league is to include the two or three Imperial
Powers whose pacific intentions are, euphemistically, open to doubt.

Such is the outline of the project and its premises. An attempt to fill in this outline will,
perhaps, conduce to an appreciation of what is sought and of what the conditioning circumstances
will enforce in the course of its realisation. As touches the fear of aggression, it has already
been indicated, perhaps with unnecessary iteration, that these two Imperial Powers are unable
to relinquish the quest of dominion through warlike enterprise, because as dynastic States
they have no other ulterior aim; as has abundantly appeared in the great volume of expository
statements that have come out of the Fatherland the past few years, official, semi-official,
inspired, and spontaneous. "Assurance of the nation's future" is not translatable into any
other terms. The Imperial dynasty has no other ground to stand on, and can not give up the
enterprise so long as it can muster force for any formidable diversion, to get anything in
the way of dominion by seizure, threat or chicane.

This is coming to be informally and loosely, but none the less definitively, realised by the
pacific nations; and the realisation of it is gaining in clearness and assurance as time passes.
And it is backed by the conviction that, in the nature of things, no engagement on the part
of such a dynastic State has any slightest binding force, beyond the material constraint that
would enforce it from the outside. So the demand has been diplomatically phrased as a demand
for "substantial guarantees." Any gain in resources on the part of these Powers is to be counted
as a gain in the ways and means of disturbing the peace, without reservation.

The pacific nations include among them two large items, both of which are indispensable to
the success of the project, the United States and the United Kingdom. The former brings in
its train, virtually without exception or question, the other American republics, none of which
can practicably go in or stay out except in company and collusion with the United States. The
United Kingdom after the same fashion, and with scarcely less assurance, may be counted on
to carry the British colonies. Evidently, without both of these groups the project would not
even make a beginning. Beyond this is to be counted in as elements of strength, though scarcely
indispensable, France, Belgium, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries. The other west-European
nations would in all probability be found in the league, although so far as regards its work
and its fortunes their adhesion would scarcely be a matter of decisive consequence; they may
therefore be left somewhat on one side in any consideration of the circumstances that would
shape the league, its aims and its limitations. The Balkan states, in the wider acceptance,
they that frequent the Sign of the Double Cross, are similarly negligible in respect of the
organisation of such a league or its resources and the mutual concessions necessary to be made
between its chief members. Russia is so doubtful a factor, particularly as regards its place
and value in industry, culture and politics, in the near future, as to admit nothing much more
than a doubt on what its relation to the situation will be. The evil intentions of the Imperial-bureaucratic
establishment are probably no more to be questioned than the good intentions of the underlying
peoples of Russia. China will have to be taken in, if for no other reason than the use to which
the magnificent resources of that country would be turned by its Imperial neighbour in the
absence of insurmountable interference from outside. But China will come in on any terms that
include neutrality and security.

The question then arises as to the Imperial Powers whose dynastic enterprise is primarily to
be hedged against by such a league. Reflection will show that if the league is to effect any
appreciable part of its purpose, these Powers will also be included in the league, or at least
in its jurisdiction. A pacific league not including these Powers, or not extending its jurisdiction
and surveillance to them and their conduct, would come to the same thing as a coalition of
nations in two hostile groups, the one standing on the defensive against the warlike machinations
of the other, and both groups bidding for the favor of those minor Powers whose traditions
and current aspirations run to national (dynastic) aggrandizement by way of political intrigue.
It would come to a more articulate and accentuated form of that balance of power that has latterly
gone bankrupt in Europe, with the most corrupt and unreliable petty monarchies of eastern Europe
vested with a casting vote; and it would also involve a system of competitive armaments of
the same general character as what has also shown itself bankrupt. It would, in other words,
mean a virtual return to the status quo ante, but with an overt recognition of its provisional
character, and with the lines of division more sharply drawn. That is to say, it would amount
to reinstating the situation which the projected league is intended to avert. It is evidently
contained in the premises that the projected league must be all-inclusive, at least as regards
its jurisdiction and surveillance. The argument will return to this point presently.

The purpose of the projected league is peace and security, commonly spoken of under patriotic
preconceptions as "national" peace and security. This will have to mean a competent enforcement
of peace, on such a footing of overmastering force at the disposal of the associated pacific
nations as to make security a matter of ordinary routine. It is true, the more genial spokesmen
of the project are given to the view that what is to come of it all is a comity of neutral
nations, amicably adjusting their own relations among themselves in a spirit of peace and good-will.
But this view is over-sanguine, in that it overlooks the point that into this prospective comity
of nations Imperial Germany (and Imperial Japan) fit like a drunken savage with a machine gun.
It also overlooks the patent fatality that these two are bound to come into a coalition at
the next turn, with whatever outside and subsidiary resources they can draw on; provided only
that a reasonable opening for further enterprise presents itself. The league, in other terms,
must be in a position to enforce peace by overmastering force, and to anticipate any move at
cross purposes with the security of the pacific nations.

This end can be reached by either one of two ways. If the dynastic States are left to their
own devices, it will be incumbent on the associated nations to put in the field a standing
force sufficient to prevent a recourse to arms; which means competitive armament and universal
military rule. Or the dynastic States may be taken into partnership and placed under such surveillance
and constraint as to practically disarm them; which would admit virtual disarmament of the
federated nations. The former arrangement has nothing in its favour, except the possibility
that no better or less irksome arrangement can be had under existing circumstances; that is
to say that the pacific nations may not be able to bring these dynastic states to terms of
disarmament under surveillance. They assuredly can not except by force; and this is the precise
point on which the continued hostilities in Europe turn today. In diplomatic parable the German
Imperial spokesmen say that they can accept (or as they prefer to phrase it, grant) no terms
that do not fully safeguard the Future of the Fatherland; and in similarly diplomatic parable
the spokesmen of the Entente insist that Prussian militarism must be permanently put out of
commission; but it all means the same thing, viz. that the Imperial establishment is to be
(or is not to be) disabled beyond the possibility of its entering on a similar warlike enterprise
again, when it has had time for recuperation. The dynastic statesmen, and the lay subjects
of the Imperial establishment, are strenuously set on securing a fair opportunity for recuperation
and a wiser endeavour to achieve that dominion which the present adventure promises to defeat;
while the Entente want no recurrence, and are persuaded that a recurrence can be avoided only
on the footing of a present collapse of the Imperial power and a scrupulously enforced prostration
of it henceforth.

Without the definitive collapse of the Imperial power no pacific league of nations can come
to anything much more than armistice. On the basis of such a collapse the league may as well
administer its affairs economically by way of an all-around reduction of armaments, as by the
costlier and more irksome way of "preparedness." But a sensible reduction of armaments on the
part of the neutral nations implies disarmament of the dynastic States. Which would involve
a neutral surveillance of the affairs of these dynastic States in such detail and with such
exercise of authority as would reduce their governments to the effective status of local administrative
officials. Out of which, in turn, would arise complications that would lead to necessary readjustments
all along the line. It would involve the virtual, if not also the formal, abolition of the
monarchy, since the monarchy has no other use than that of international war and intrigue;
or at least it would involve the virtual abrogation of its powers, reducing it to the same
status of faineantise as now characterises the British crown. Evidently this means a serious
intermeddling in the domestic concerns and arrangements of the Fatherland, such as is not admissible
under the democratic principle that any people must be left free to follow their own inclinations
and devices in their own concerns; at the same time that this degree of interference is imperative
if the peace is to be kept on any other footing than that of eternal vigilance and superior
armed force, with a people whose own inclinations and devices are of the kind now grown familiar
in the German case,--all of which also applies, with accentuation, in the case of Imperial Japan.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some such policy of neutral surveillance in the affairs of these peoples whose pacific temper
is under suspicion, is necessarily involved in a plan to enforce peace by concert of the pacific
nations, and it will necessarily carry implications and farther issues, touching not only these
supposedly recalcitrant peoples, but also as regards the pacific nations themselves. Assuming
always that the prime purpose and consistent aim of the projected league is the peace and security
of those pacific nations on whose initiative it is to be achieved, then it should be reasonable
to assume that the course of procedure in its organisation, administration and further adaptations
and adjustments must follow the logic of necessities leading to that end. He who wills the
end must make up his account with the means.

The end in this case is peace and security; which means, for practical purposes, peace and
good-will. Ill-will is not a secure foundation of peace. Even the military strategists of the
Imperial establishment recommend a programme of "frightfulness" only as a convenient military
expedient, essentially a provisional basis of tranquility. In the long run and as a permanent
peace measure it is doubtless not to the point. Security is finally to be had among or between
modern peoples only on the ground of a common understanding and an impartially common basis
of equity, or something approaching that basis as nearly as circumstances will permit. Which
means that in so far as the projected peace-compact is to take effect in any enduring way,
and leave the federated nations some degree of freedom from persistent apprehension and animosity,
as well as from habitual insecurity of life and limb, the league must not only be all-inclusive,
but it must be inclusively uniform in all its requirements and regulations.

The peoples of the quondam Imperial nations must come into the league on a footing of formal
equality with the rest. This they can not do without the virtual abdication of their dynastic
governmental establishments and a consequent shift to a democratic form of organisation, and
a formal abrogation of class privileges and prerogatives.

However, a virtual abdication or cancelment of the dynastic rule, such as to bring it formally
into the same class with the British crown, would scarcely meet the requirements in the case
of the German Imperial establishment; still more patently not in the case of Imperial Japan.
If, following the outlines of the decayed British crown, one or the other of these Imperial
establishments were by formal enactment reduced to a state of nominal desuetude, the effect
would be very appreciably different from what happens in the British community, where the crown
has lost its powers by failure of the requisite subordination on the part of the people, and
not by a formal abdication of rights. In the German case, and even more in the Japanese case,
the strength of the Imperial establishment lies in the unimpaired loyalty of the populace;
which would remain nearly intact at the outset, and would thin out only by insensible degrees
in the sequel; so that if only the Imperial establishment were left formally standing it would
command the fealty of the common run in spite of any formal abrogation of its powers, and the
course of things would, in effect, run as before the break. In effect, to bring about a shift
to a democratic basis the dynastic slate would have to be wiped very clean indeed. And this
shift would be indispensable to the successful conduct of such a pacific league of nations,
since any other than an effectually democratic national establishment is to be counted on unfailingly
to intrigue for dynastic aggrandizement, through good report and evil.

In a case like that of Imperial Germany, with its federated States and subsidiaries, where
royalty and nobility still are potent preconceptions investing the popular imagination, and
where loyal abnegation in the presence of authority still is the chief and staple virtue of
the common man,--in all such cases virtual abdication of the dynastic initiative under constitutional
forms can be had only by a formal and scrupulously complete abrogation of all those legal and
customary arrangements on which this irresponsible exercise of authority has rested and through
which it has taken effect. Neutralisation in these instances will mean reduction to an unqualified
democratic footing; which will, at least at the outset, not be acceptable to the common people,
and will be wholly intolerable to the ruling classes. Such a régime, therefore, while it is
indispensable as a working basis for a neutral league of peace, would from the outset have
to be enforced against the most desperate resistance of the ruling classes, headed by the dynastic
statesmen and warlords, and backed by the stubborn loyalty of the subject populace. It would
have to mean the end of things for the ruling classes and the most distasteful submission to
an alien scheme of use and wont for the populace. And yet it is also an indispensable element
in any scheme of pacification that aims at permanent peace and security. In time, it may well
be believed, the people of the Fatherland might learn to do well enough without the gratuitous
domination of their ruling classes, but at the outset it would be a heartfelt privation.

It follows that a league to enforce peace would have to begin its régime with enforcing peace
on terms of the unconditional surrender of the formidable warlike nations; which could be accomplished
only by the absolute and irretrievable defeat of these Powers as they now stand. The question
will, no doubt, present itself, Is the end worth the cost? That question can, of course, not
be answered in absolute terms, inasmuch as it resolves itself into a question of taste and
prepossession. An answer to it would also not be greatly to the purpose here, since it would
have no particular bearing on the course of action likely to be pursued by these pacific nations
in their quest of a settled peace. It is more to the point to ask what is likely to be the
practical decision of these peoples on that head when the question finally presents itself
in a concrete form.

Again it is necessary to call to mind that any momentous innovation which rests on popular
sentiment will take time; that consequently anything like a plébiscite on the question today
would scarcely give a safe index of what the decision is likely to be when presently put to
the test; and that as things go just now, swiftly and urgent, any time-allowance counts at
something more than its ordinary workday coefficient. What can apparently be said with some
degree of confidence is that just now, during these two years past, sentiment has been moving
in the direction indicated, and that any growing inclination of the kind is being strongly
reenforced by a growing realisation that nothing but heroic remedies will avail at this juncture.
If it comes to be currently recognised that a settled peace can be had only at the cost of
eradicating privilege and royalty from the warlike nations, it would seem reasonable to expect,
from their present state of mind, that the pacific nations will scarcely hesitate to apply
that remedy,--provided always that the fortunes of war fall out as that measure would require,
and provided also that the conflict lasts long enough and severe enough to let them make up
their mind to anything so drastic.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a certain side issue bearing on this question of the ulterior probabilities of popular
sentiment and national policy as to what is to be done with the warlike nations in the event
that the allied nations who fight for neutrality have the disposal of such matters. This side
issue may seem remote, and it may not unlikely be overlooked among the mass of graver and more
tangible considerations. It was remarked above that the United Kingdom is one of the two chief
pillars of the projected house of peace; and it may be added without serious fear of contradiction
or annoyance that the United Kingdom is also the one among these pacific nations that comes
nearest being capable, in the event of such an emergency, to take care of its own case single-handed.
For better or worse, British adhesion to the project is indispensable, and the British are
in a position virtually to name their own terms of adhesion. The British commonwealth--a very
inclusive phrase in this connection--must form the core of the pacific league, if any, and
British sentiment will have a very great place in the terms of its formation and in the terms
which it will be inclined to offer the Imperial coalition at the settlement.

Now, it happens that the British community entered on this war as a democratic monarchy ruled
and officered by a body of gentlemen--doubtless the most correct and admirable muster of gentlemen,
of anything approaching its volume, that the modern world can show. But the war has turned
out not to be a gentlemen's war. It has on the contrary been a war of technological exploits,
reenforced with all the beastly devices of the heathen. It is a war in which all the specific
traits of the well-bred and gently-minded man are a handicap; in which veracity, gallantry,
humanity, liberality are conducive to nothing but defeat and humiliation. The death-rate among
the British gentlemen-officers in the early months, and for many months, ran extravagantly
high, for the most part because they were gallant gentlemen as well as officers imbued with
the good, old class spirit of noblesse oblige, that has made half the tradition and more than
half the working theory of the British officer in the field,--good, but old, hopelessly out
of date. That generation of officers died, for the most part; being unfit to survive or to
serve the purpose under these modern conditions of warfare, to which their enemy on the other
hand had adapted themselves with easy facility from beforehand. The gentlemanly qualifications,
and the material apparatus of gentility, and, it will perhaps have to be admitted, the gentlemen,
have fallen into the background, or perhaps rather have measurably fallen into abeyance, among
the officers of the line. There may be more doubt as to the state of things in respect of the
gentility of the staff, but the best that can confidently be said is that it is a point in doubt.

It is hoped that one may say without offense that in the course of time the personnel has apparently
worked down to the level of vulgarity defined by the ways and means of this modern warfare;
which means the level on which runs a familiar acquaintance with large and complex mechanical
apparatus, railway and highway transport and power, reenforced concrete, excavations and mud,
more particularly mud, concealment and ambush, and unlimited deceit and ferocity. It is not
precisely that persons of pedigree and gentle breeding have ceased to enter or seek entrance
to employment as officers, still less that measures have been taken to restrain their doing
so or to eliminate from the service those who have come into it--though there may present itself
a doubt on this point as touches the more responsible discretionary positions--but only that
the stock of suitable gentlemen, uncommonly large as it is, has been overdrawn; that those
who have latterly gone into service, or stayed in, have perforce divested themselves of their
gentility in some appreciable measure, particularly as regards class distinction, and have
fallen on their feet in the more commonplace role of common men.

Serviceability in this modern warfare is conditioned on much the same traits of temperament
and training that make for usefulness in the modern industrial processes, where large-scale
coordinations of movement and an effective familiarity with precise and far-reaching mechanical
processes is an indispensable requirement,--indispensable in the same measure as the efficient
conduct of this modern machine industry is indispensable. But the British gentleman, in so
far as he runs true to type, is of no use to modern industry; quite the contrary, in fact.
Still, the British gentleman is, in point of heredity, the same thing over again as the British
common man; so that, barring the misdirected training that makes him a gentleman, and which
can largely be undone under urgent need and pressure, he can be made serviceable for such uses
as the modern warfare requires. Meantime the very large demand for officers, and the insatiable
demand for capable officers, has brought the experienced and capable common man into the case
and is in a fair way to discredit gentility as a necessary qualification of field officers.

But the same process of discredit and elimination is also extending to the responsible officials
who have the administration of things in hand. Indeed, the course of vulgarisation among the
responsible officials has now been under way for some appreciable time and with very perceptible
effect, and the rate of displacement appears to be gathering velocity with every month that
passes. Here, as in the field operations, it also appears that gentlemanly methods, standards,
preconceptions, and knowledge of men and things, is no longer to the purpose. Here, too, it
is increasingly evident that this is not a gentlemen's war. And the traditional qualifications
that have sufficed in the past, at least to the extent of enabling the British management to
"muddle through," as they are proudly in the habit of saying,--these qualifications are of
slight account in this technological conjuncture of the nation's fortunes. It would perhaps
be an under-statement to say that these gentlemanly qualifications are no longer of any account,
for the purpose immediately in hand, and it would doubtless not do to say that they are wholly
and unreservedly disserviceable as things run today; but captious critics might find at least
a precarious footing of argument on such a proposition.

Through the course of the nineteenth century the British government had progressively been
taking on the complexion of a "gentlemen's agreement;" a government by gentlemen, for gentlemen,
and of gentlemen, too, beyond what could well be alleged in any other known instance, though
never wholly so. No government could be a government of gentlemen exclusively, since there
is no pecuniary profit in gentlemen as such, and therefore no object in governing them; more
particularly could there never be any incentive in it for gentlemen, whose livelihood is, in
the nature of the case, drawn from some one else. A gentlemen's government can escape death
by inanition only in so far as it serves the material interest of its class, as contrasted
with the underlying population from which the class draws its livelihood. This British arrangement
of a government by prudent and humane gentlemen with a view to the conservation of that state
of things that best conduced to the material well-being of their own class, has on the whole
had the loyal support of the underlying populace, with an occasional floundering protest. But
the protest has never taken the shape of an expressed distrust of gentlemen, considered as
the staple ways and means of government; nor has the direction of affairs ever descended into
the hands of any other or lower class or condition of men.

On the whole, this British arrangement for the control of national affairs by a body of interested
gentlemen-investors has been, and perhaps still is, just as well at home in the affectionate
preconceptions of the nineteenth-century British as the corresponding German usufruct by self-appointed
swaggering aristocrats has been among the underlying German population, or as the American
arrangement of national control by business men for business ends. The British and the American
arrangements run very much to the same substantial effect, of course, inasmuch as the British
gentlemen represent, as a class, the filial generations of a business community, and their
aims and standards of conduct continue to be such as are enforced by the pecuniary interests
on which their gentility is conditioned. They continue to draw the ways and means of a worthy
life from businesslike arrangements of a "vested" character, made and provided with a view
to their nourishment and repose. Their resulting usufruct of the community's productive efforts
rests on a vested interest of a pecuniary sort, sanctioned by the sacred rights of property;
very much as the analogous German dynastic and aristocratic usufruct rests on personal prerogative,
sanctioned by the sacred rights of authentic prescription, without afterthought. The two, it
will be noted are very much alike, in effect, "under the skin." The great distinguishing mark
being that the German usufructuary gentlemen are, in theory at least, gentlemen-adventurers
of prowess and proud words, whose place in the world's economy it is to glorify God and disturb
the peace; whereas their British analogues are gentlemen-investors, of blameless propriety,
whose place it is more simply to glorify God and enjoy Him forever.

All this arrangement of a usufruct with a view to the reputable consumption of the community's
superfluous production has had the cordial support of British sentiment, perhaps fully as cordial
as the German popular subservience in the corresponding German scheme; both being well embedded
in the preconceptions of the common man. But the war has put it all to a rude test, and has
called on the British gentlemen's executive committee to take over duties for which it was
not designed. The exigencies of this war of technological exploits have been almost wholly,
and very insistently, of a character not contemplated in the constitution of such an executive
committee of gentlemen-investors designed to safeguard class interests and promote their pecuniary
class advantage by a blamelessly inconspicuous and indirect management of national affairs.
The methods are of the class known colloquially among the vulgar-spoken American politicians
as "pussyfooting" and "log-rolling"; but always with such circumstance of magnitude, authenticity
and well-bred deference to precedent, as to give the resulting routine of subreption, trover
and conversion, an air not only of benevolent consideration but of austere morality.

But the most austere courtesy and the most authentically dispassionate division of benefits
will not meet the underbred exigencies of a war conducted on the mechanistic lines of the modern
state of the industrial arts. So the blameless, and for the purpose imbecile, executive committee
of gentlemen-investors has been insensibly losing the confidence and the countenance of the
common man; who, when all is said, will always have to do what is to be done. The order of
gentlemanly parleying and brokery has, therefore, with many apprehensions of calamity, been
reluctantly and tardily giving ground before something that is of a visibly underbred order.
Increasingly underbred, and thereby insensibly approaching the character of this war situation,
but accepted with visible reluctance and apprehension both by the ruling class and by the underlying
population. The urgent necessity of going to such a basis, and of working out the matter in
hand by an unblushing recourse to that matter-of-fact logic of mechanical efficiency, which
alone can touch the difficulties of the case, but which has no respect of persons,--this necessity
has been present from the outset and has been vaguely apprehended for long past, but it is
only tardily and after the chastening of heavy penalties on this gentlemanly imbecility that
a substantial move in that direction has been made. It has required much British resolution
to overcome the night-fear of going out into the unhallowed ground of matter-of-fact, where
the farthest earlier excursions of the governmental agencies had taken them no farther than
such financial transactions as are incident to the accomplishment of anything whatever in a
commercial nation. And then, too, there is a pecuniary interest in being interested in financial
transactions.

This shifting of discretionary control out of the hands of the gentlemen into those of the
underbred common run, who know how to do what is necessary to be done in the face of underbred
exigencies, may conceivably go far when it has once been started, and it may go forward at
an accelerated rate if the pressure of necessity lasts long enough. If time be given for habituation
to this manner of directorate in national affairs, so that the common man comes to realise
how it is feasible to get along without gentlemen-investors holding the discretion, the outcome
may conceivably be very grave. It is a point in doubt, but it is conceivable that in such a
case the gentlemanly executive committee administering affairs in the light of the gentlemanly
pecuniary interest, will not be fully reinstated in the discretionary control of the United
Kingdom for an appreciable number of years after the return of peace. Possibly, even, the régime
may be permanently deranged, and there is even a shadowy doubt possible to be entertained as
to whether the vested pecuniary rights, on which the class of gentlemen rests, may not suffer
some derangement, in case the control should pass into the hands of the underbred and unpropertied
for so long a season as to let the common man get used to thinking that the vested interests
and the sacred rights of gentility are so much ado about nothing.

Such an outcome would be extreme, but as a remote contingency it is to be taken into account.
The privileged classes of the United Kingdom should by this time be able to see the danger
there may be for them and their vested interests, pecuniary and moral, in an excessive prolongation
of the war; in such postponement of peace as would afford time for a popular realisation of
their incompetence and disserviceability as touches the nation's material well-being under
modern conditions. To let the nation's war experience work to such an outcome, the season of
war would have to be prolonged beyond what either the hopes or the fears of the community have
yet contemplated; but the point is after all worth noting, as being within the premises of
the case, that there is herein a remote contingency of losing, at least for a time, that unformulated
clause in the British constitution which has hitherto restricted the holding of responsible
office to men of pedigree and of gentle breeding, or at least of very grave pecuniary weight;
so grave as to make the incumbents virtual gentlemen, with a virtual pedigree, and with a virtual
gentleman's accentuated sense of class interest. Should such an eventuality overtake British
popular sentiment and belief there is also the remote contingency that the rights of ownership
and investment would lose a degree of sanctity.

It seems necessary to note a further, and in a sense more improbable, line of disintegration
among modern fixed ideas. Among the best entrenched illusions of modern economic preconceptions,
and in economic as well as legal theory, has been the indispensability of funds, and the hard
and fast limitation of industrial operations by the supply or with-holding of funds. The war
experience has hitherto gone tentatively to show that funds and financial transactions, of
credit, bargain, sale and solvency, may be dispensed with under pressure of necessity; and
apparently without seriously hindering that run of mechanical fact, on which interest in the
present case necessarily centers, and which must be counted on to give the outcome. Latterly
the case is clearing up a little further, on further experience and under further pressure
of technological exigencies, to the effect that financial arrangements are indispensable in
this connection only because and in so far as it has been arranged to consider them indispensable;
as in international trade. They are an indispensable means of intermediation only in so far
as pecuniary interests are to be furthered or safeguarded in the intermediation. When, as has
happened with the belligerents in the present instance, the national establishment becomes
substantially insolvent, it is beginning to appear that its affairs can be taken care of with
less difficulty and with better effect without the use of financial expedients. Of course,
it takes time to get used to doing things by the more direct method and without the accustomed
circumlocution of accountancy, or the accustomed allowance for profits to go to interested
parties who, under the financial régime, hold a power of discretionary permission in all matters
that touch the use of the industrial arts. Under these urgent material exigencies, investment
comes to have much of the appearance of a gratuitous drag and drain on the processes of industry.

Here, again, is a sinister contingency; sinister, that is, for those vested rights of ownership
by force of which the owners of "capital" are enabled to permit or withhold the use of the
industrial arts by the community at large, on pain of privation in case the accustomed toll
to the owners of capital is not paid. It is, of course, not intended to find fault with this
arrangement; which has the sanction of "time immemorial" and of a settled persuasion that it
lies at the root of all civilised life and intercourse. It is only that in case of extreme
need this presumed indispensable expedient of industrial control has broken down, and that
experience is proving it to be, in these premises, an item of borrowed trouble. Should experience
continue to run on the same lines for an appreciable period and at a high tension, it is at
least conceivable that the vested right of owners to employ unlimited sabotage in the quest
of profits might fall so far into disrepute as to leave them under a qualified doubt on the
return of "normal" conditions. The common man, in other words, who gathers nothing but privation
and anxiety from the owners' discretionary sabotage, may conceivably stand to lose his preconception
that the vested rights of ownership are the cornerstone of his life, liberty and pursuit of
happiness.

       *       *       *       *       *

The considerations recited in this lengthy excursion on the war situation and its probable
effects on popular habits of thought in the United Kingdom go to say that when peace comes
to be negotiated, with the United Kingdom as the chief constituent and weightiest spokesman
of the allied nations and of the league of pacific neutrals, the representatives of British
aims and opinions are likely to speak in a different, chastened, and disillusioned fashion,
as contrasted with what the British attitude was at the beginning of hostilities. The gentlemanly
British animus of arrogant self-sufficiency will have been somewhat sobered, perhaps somewhat
subdued. Concession to the claims and pretensions of the other pacific nations is likely to
go farther than might once have been expected, particularly in the way of concession to any
demand for greater international comity and less international discrimination; essentially
concession looking to a reduction of national pretensions and an incipient neutralisation of
national interests. Coupled with this will presumably be a less conciliatory attitude toward
the members of the dynastic coalition against whom the war has been fought, owing to a more
mature realisation of the impossibility of a lasting peace negotiated with a Power whose substantial
core is a warlike and irresponsible dynastic establishment. The peace negotiations are likely
to run on a lower level of diplomatic deference to constituted authorities, and with more of
a view to the interests and sentiments of the underlying population, than was evident in the
futile negotiations had at the outbreak of hostilities. The gentle art of diplomacy, that engages
the talents of exalted personages and well-bred statesmen, has been somewhat discredited; and
if it turns out that the vulgarisation of the directorate in the United Kingdom and its associated
allies and neutrals will have time to go on to something like dominance and authenticity, then
the deference which the spokesmen of these nations are likely to show for the prescriptive
rights of dynasty, nobility, bureaucracy, or even of pecuniary aristocracy, in the countries
that make up the party of the second part, may be expected to have shrunk appreciably, conceivably
even to such precarious dimensions as to involve the virtual neglect or possible downright
abrogation of them, in sum and substance.

Indeed, the chances of a successful pacific league of neutrals to come out of the current situation
appear to be largely bound up with the degree of vulgarisation due to overtake the several
directorates of the belligerent nations as well as the popular habits of thought in these and
in the neutral countries, during the further course of the war. It is too broad a generalisation,
perhaps, to say that the longer the war lasts the better are the chances of such a neutral
temper in the interested nations as will make a pacific league practicable, but the contrary
would appear a much less defensible proposition. It is, of course, the common man that has
the least interest in warlike enterprise, if any, and it is at the same time the common man
that bears the burden of such enterprise and has also the most immediate interest in keeping
the peace. If, slowly and pervasively, in the course of hard experience, he learns to distrust
the conduct of affairs by his betters, and learns at the same move to trust to his own class
to do what is necessary and to leave undone what is not, his deference to his betters is likely
to suffer a decline, such as should show itself in a somewhat unguarded recourse to democratic
ways and means.

In short, there is in this progressive vulgarisation of effectual use and wont and of sentiment,
in the United Kingdom and elsewhere, some slight ground for the hope, or the apprehension,
that no peace will be made with the dynastic Powers of the second part until they cease to
be dynastic Powers and take on the semblance of democratic commonwealths, with dynasties, royalties
and privileged classes thrown in the discard.

This would probably mean some prolongation of hostilities, until the dynasties and privileged
classes had completely exhausted their available resources; and, by the same token, until the
privileged classes in the more modern nations among the belligerents had also been displaced
from direction and discretion by those underbred classes on whom it is incumbent to do what
is to be done; or until a juncture were reached that comes passably near to such a situation.
On the contingency of such a course of events and some such outcome appears also to hang the
chance of a workable pacific league. Without further experience of the futility of upper-class
and pecuniary control, to discredit precedent and constituted authority, it is scarcely conceivable,
e.g., that the victorious allies would go the length of coercively discarding the German Imperial
dynasty and the kept classes that with it constitute the Imperial State, and of replacing it
with a democratic organisation of the people in the shape of a modern commonwealth; and without
a change of that nature, affecting that nation and such of its allies as would remain on the
map, no league of pacific neutrals would be able to manage its affairs, even for a time, except
on a war-footing that would involve a competitive armament against future dynastic enterprises
from the same quarter. Which comes to saying that a lasting peace is possible on no other terms
than the disestablishment of the Imperial dynasty and the abrogation of all feudalistic remnants
of privilege in the Fatherland and its allies, together with the reduction of those countries
to the status of commonwealths made up of ungraded men.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is easy to speculate on what the conditions precedent to such a pacific league of neutrals
must of necessity be; but it is not therefore less difficult to make a shrewd guess as to the
chances of these conditions being met. Of these conditions precedent, the chief and foremost,
without which any other favorable circumstances are comparatively idle, is a considerable degree
of neutralisation, extending to virtually all national interests and pretensions, but more
particularly to all material and commercial interests of the federated peoples; and, indispensably
and especially, such neutralisation would have to extend to the nations from whom aggression
is now apprehended, as, e.g., the German people. But such neutralisation could not conceivably
reach the Fatherland unless that nation were made over in the image of democracy, since the
Imperial State is, by force of the terms, a warlike and unneutral power. This would seem to
be the ostensibly concealed meaning of the allied governments in proclaiming that their aim
is to break German militarism without doing harm to the German people.

As touches the neutralisation of the democratically rehabilitated Fatherland, or in default
of that, as touches the peace terms to be offered the Imperial government, the prime article
among the stipulations would seem to be abolition of all trade discrimination against Germany
or by Germany against any other nationality. Such stipulation would, of course, cover all manner
of trade discrimination,--e.g., import, export and excise tariff, harbor and registry dues,
subsidy, patent right, copyright, trade mark, tax exemption whether partial or exclusive, investment
preferences at home and abroad,--in short it would have to establish a thoroughgoing neutralisation
of trade relations in the widest acceptation of the term, and to apply in perpetuity. The like
applies, of course, to all that fringe of subsidiary and outlying peoples on whom Imperial
Germany relies for much of its resources in any warlike enterprise. Such a move also disposes
of the colonial question in a parenthesis, so far as regards any special bond of affiliation
between the Empire, or the Fatherland, and any colonial possessions that are now thought desirable
to be claimed. Under neutralisation, colonies would cease to be "colonial possessions," being
necessarily included under the general abrogation of commercial discriminations, and also necessarily
exempt from special taxation or specially favorable tax rates.

Colonies there still would be, though it is not easy to imagine what would be the meaning of
a "German Colony" in such a case. Colonies would be free communities, after the fashion of
New Zealand or Australia, but with the further sterilisation of the bond between colony and
mother country involved in the abolition of all appointive offices and all responsibility to
the crown or the imperial government. Now, there are no German colonies in this simpler British
sense of the term, which implies nothing more than community of blood, institutions and language,
together with that sense of solidarity between the colony and the mother country which this
community of pedigree and institutions will necessarily bring; but while there are today no
German colonies, in the sense of the term so given, there is no reason to presume that no such
German colonies would come into bearing under the conditions of this prospective régime of
neutrality installed by such a pacific league, when backed by the league's guarantee that no
colony from the Fatherland will be exposed to the eventual risk of coming under the discretionary
tutelage of the German Imperial establishment and so falling into a relation of step-childhood
to the Imperial dynasty.

As is well known, and as has by way of superfluous commonplace been set forth by a sometime
Colonial Secretary of the Empire, the decisive reason for there being no German colonies in
existence is the consistently impossible colonial policy of the German government, looking
to the usufruct of the colonies by the government, and the fear of further arbitrary control
and nepotic discrimination at the pleasure of the self-seeking dynastic establishment. It is
only under Imperial rule that no German colony, in this modern sense of the term, is possible;
and only because Imperial rule does not admit of a free community being formed by colonists
from the Fatherland; or of an ostensibly free community of that kind ever feeling secure from
unsolicited interference with its affairs.

The nearest approach to a German Colony, as contrasted with a "Colonial Possession," hitherto
have been the very considerable, number of escaped German subjects who have settled in English-speaking
or Latin-speaking countries, particularly in North and South America. And considering that
the chief common trait among them is their successful evasion of the Imperial government's
heavy hand, they show an admirable filial piety toward the Imperial establishment; though troubled
with no slightest regret at having escaped from the Imperial surveillance and no slightest
inclination to return to the shelter of the Imperial tutelage. A colloquialism--"hyphenate"--has
latterly grown up to meet the need of a term to designate these evasive and yet patriotic colonists.
It is scarcely misleading to say that the German-American hyphenate, e.g., in so far as he
runs true to form, is still a German subject with his heart, but he is an American citizen
with his head. All of which goes to argue that if the Fatherland were to fall into such a state
of democratic tolerance that no recidivist need carry a defensive hyphen to shield him from
the importunate attentions of the Imperial government, German colonies would also come into
bearing; although, it is true, they would have no value to the German government.

In the Imperial colonial policy colonies are conceived to stand to their Imperial guardian
or master in a relation between that of a step-child and that of an indentured servant; to
be dealt with summarily and at discretion and to be made use of without scruple. The like attitude
toward colonies was once familiar matter-of-course with the British and Spanish statesmen.
The British found the plan unprofitable, and also unworkable, and have given it up. The Spanish,
having no political outlook but the dynastic one, could of course not see their way to relinquish
the only purpose of their colonial enterprise, except in relinquishing their colonial possessions.
The German (Imperial) colonial policy is and will be necessarily after the Spanish pattern,
and necessarily, too, with the Spanish results.

Under the projected neutral scheme there would be no colonial policy, and of course, no inducement
to the acquisition of colonies, since there would be no profit to be derived, or to be fancied,
in the case. But while no country, as a commonwealth, has any material interest in the acquisition
or maintenance of colonies, it is otherwise as regards the dynastic interests of an Imperial
government; and it is also otherwise, at least in the belief of the interested parties, as
regards special businessmen or business concerns who are in a position to gain something by
help of national discrimination in their favor. As regards the pecuniary interests of favored
businessmen or business concerns, and of investors favored by national discrimination in colonial
relations, the case falls under the general caption of trade discrimination, and does not differ
at all materially from such expedients as a protective tariff, a ship subsidy, or a bounty
on exports. But as regards the warlike, that is to say dynastic, interest of an Imperial government
the case stands somewhat different.

Colonial Possessions in such a case yield no material benefit to the country at large, but
their possession is a serviceable plea for warlike preparations with which to retain possession
of the colonies in the face of eventualities, and it is also a serviceable means of stirring
the national pride and keeping alive a suitable spirit of patriotic animosity. The material
service actually to be derived from such possessions in the event of war is a point in doubt,
with the probabilities apparently running against their being of any eventual net use. But
there need be no question that such possessions, under the hand of any national establishment
infected with imperial ambitions, are a fruitful source of diplomatic complications, excuses
for armament, international grievances, and eventual aggression. A pacific league of neutrals
can evidently not tolerate the retention of colonial possessions by any dynastic State that
may be drawn into the league or under its jurisdiction, as, e.g., the German Empire in case
it should be left on an Imperial footing. Whereas, in case the German peoples are thrown back
on a democratic status, as neutralised commonwealths without a crown or a military establishment,
the question of their colonial possessions evidently falls vacant.

As to the neutralisation of trade relations apart from the question of colonies, and as bears
on the case of Germany under the projected jurisdiction of a pacific league of neutrals, the
considerations to be taken account of are of much the same nature. As it would have to take
effect, e.g., in the abolition of commercial and industrial discriminations between Germany
and the pacific nations, such neutralisation would doubtless confer a lasting material benefit
on the German people at large; and it is not easy to detect any loss or detriment to be derived
from such a move so long as peace prevails. Protective, that is to say discriminating, export,
import, or excise duties, harbor and registry dues, subsidies, tax exemptions and trade preferences,
and all the like devices of interference with trade and industry, are unavoidably a hindrance
to the material interests of any people on whom they are imposed or who impose these disabilities
on themselves. So that exemption from these things by a comprehensive neutralisation of trade
relations would immediately benefit all the nations concerned, in respect of their material
well-being in times of peace. There is no exception and no abatement to be taken account of
under this general statement, as is well known to all men who are conversant with these matters.

But it is otherwise as regards the dynastic interest in the case, and as regards any national
interest in warlike enterprise. It is doubtless true that all restraint of trade between nations,
and between classes or localities within the national frontiers, unavoidably acts to weaken
and impoverish the people on whose economic activities this restraint is laid; and to the extent
to which this effect is had it will also be true that the country which so is hindered in its
work will have a less aggregate of resources to place at the disposal of its enterprising statesmen
for imperialist ends. But these restraints may yet be useful for dynastic, that is to say warlike,
ends by making the country more nearly a "self-contained economic whole." A country becomes
a "self-contained economic whole" by mutilation, in cutting itself off from the industrial
system in which industrially it belongs, but in which it is unwilling nationally to hold its
place. National frontiers are industrial barriers. But as a result of such mutilation of its
industrial life such a country is better able--it has been believed--to bear the shock of severing
its international trade relations entirely, as is likely to happen in case of war.

In a large country, such as America or Russia, which comprises within its national boundaries
very extensive and very varied resources and a widely distributed and diversified population,
the mischief suffered from restraints of trade that hinder industrial relations with the world
at large will of course be proportionately lessened. Such a country comes nearer being a miniature
industrial world; although none of the civilised nations, large or small, can carry on its
ordinary industrial activities and its ordinary manner of life without drawing on foreign parts
to some appreciable extent. But a country of small territorial extent and of somewhat narrowly
restricted natural resources, as, e.g., Germany or France, can even by the most drastic measures
of restraint and mutilation achieve only a very mediocre degree of industrial isolation and
"self-sufficiency,"--as has, e.g., appeared in the present war. But in all cases, though in
varying measure, the mitigated isolation so enforced by these restraints on trade will in their
degree impair the country's industrial efficiency and lower the people's material well-being;
yet, if the restrictions are shrewdly applied this partial isolation and partial "self-sufficiency"
will go some way toward preparing the nation for the more thorough isolation that follows on
the outbreak of hostilities.

The present plight of the German people under war conditions may serve to show how nearly that
end may be attained, and yet how inadequate even the most unreserved measures of industrial
isolation must be in face of the fact that the modern state of the industrial arts necessarily
draws on the collective resources of the world at large. It may well be doubted, on an impartial
view, if the mutilation of the country's industrial system by such measures of isolation does
not after all rather weaken the nation even for warlike ends; but then, the discretionary authorities
in the dynastic States are always, and it may be presumed necessarily, hampered with obsolete
theories handed down from that cameralistic age, when the little princes of the Fatherland
were making dynastic history. So, e.g., the current, nineteenth and twentieth century, economic
policy of the Prussian-Imperial statesmen is still drawn on lines within which Frederick II,
called the Great, would have felt well at home.

Like other preparation for hostilities this reduction of the country to the status of a self-contained
economic organisation is costly, but like other preparation for hostilities it also puts the
nation in a position of greater readiness to break off friendly relations with its neighbors.
It is a war measure, commonly spoken for by its advocates as a measure of self-defense; but
whatever the merits of the self-defenders' contention, this measure is a war measure. As such
it can reasonably claim no hearing in the counsels of a pacific league of neutrals, whose purpose
it is to make war impracticable. Particularly can there be no reasonable question of admitting
a policy of trade discrimination and isolation on the part of a nation which has, for purposes
of warlike aggression, pursued such a policy in the past, and which it is the immediate purpose
of the league to bind over to keep the peace.

There has been a volume of loose talk spent on the justice and expediency of boycotting the
trade of the peoples of the Empire after the return of peace, as a penalty and as a preventive
measure designed to retard their recovery of strength with which to enter on a further warlike
enterprise. Such a measure would necessarily be somewhat futile; since "Business is business,"
after all, and the practical limitations imposed on an unprofitable boycott by the moral necessity
to buy cheap and sell dear that rests on all businessmen would surreptitiously mitigate it
to the point of negligibility. It is inconceivable--or it would be inconceivable in the absence
of imbecile politicians and self-seeking businessmen--that measures looking to the trade isolation
of any one of these countries could be entertained as a point of policy to be pursued by a
league of neutrals. And it is only in so far as patriotic jealousy and vindictive sentiments
are allowed to displace the aspiration for peace and security, that such measures can claim
consideration. Considered as a penalty to be imposed on the erring nations who set this warlike
adventure afoot, it should be sufficiently plain that such a measure as a trade boycott could
not touch the chief offenders, or even their responsible abettors. It would, rather, play into
the hands of the militarist interests by keeping alive the spirit of national jealousy and
international hatred, out of which wars arise and without which warlike enterprise might hopefully
be expected to disappear out of the scheme of human intercourse. The punishment would fall,
as all economic burdens and disabilities must always fall, on the common man, the underlying
population.

The chief relation of this common run, this underlying population of German subjects, to the
inception and pursuit of this Imperial warlike enterprise, is comprised in the fact that they
are an underlying population of subjects, held in usufruct by the Imperial establishment and
employed at will. It is true, they have lent themselves unreservedly to the uses for which
the dynasty has use for them, and they have entered enthusiastically into the warlike adventure
set afoot by the dynastic statesmen; but that they have done so is their misfortune rather
than their fault. By use and wont and indoctrination they have for long been unremittingly,
and helplessly, disciplined into a spirit of dynastic loyalty, national animosity and servile
abnegation; until it would be nothing better than a pathetic inversion of all the equities
of the case to visit the transgressions of their masters upon the common run; whose fault lies,
after all, in their being an underlying population of subjects, who have not had a chance to
reach that spiritual level on which they could properly be held accountable for the uses to
which they are turned. It is true, men are ordinarily punished for their misfortunes; but the
warlike enterprise of the Imperial dynasty has already brought what might fairly be rated as
a good measure of punishment on this underlying populace, whose chief fault and chief misfortune
lies in an habitual servile abnegation of those traits of initiative and discretion in man
that constitute him an agent susceptible of responsibility or retribution.

It would be all the more of a pathetic mockery to visit the transgressions of their masters
on these victims of circumstance and dynastic mendacity, since the conventionalities of international
equity will scarcely permit the high responsible parties in the case to be chastised with any
penalty harsher than a well-mannered figure of speech. To serve as a deterrent, the penalty
must strike the point where vests the discretion; but servile use and wont is still too well
intact in these premises to let any penalty touch the guilty core of a profligate dynasty.
Under the wear and tear of continued war and its incident continued vulgarisation of the directorate
and responsible staff among the pacific allies, the conventional respect of persons is likely
to suffer appreciable dilapidation; but there need be no apprehension of such a loss of decent
respect for personages as would compromise the creature comforts of that high syndicate of
personages on whose initiative the Fatherland entered upon this enterprise in dominion.

Bygone shortcomings and transgressions can have no reasonable place in the arrangements by
which a pacific league of neutrals designs to keep the peace. Neither can bygone prerogatives
and precedents of magnificence and of mastery, except in so far as they unavoidably must come
into play through the inability of men to divest themselves of their ingrained preconceptions,
by virtue of which a Hohenzollern or a Hapsburger is something more formidable and more to
be considered than a recruiting sergeant or a purveyor of light literature. The league can
do its work of pacification only by elaborately forgetting differences and discrepancies of
the kind that give rise to international grievances. Which is the same as saying that the neutralisation
of national discriminations and pretensions will have to go all the way, if it is to serve.
But this implies, as broadly as need be, that the pacific nations who make the league and provisionally
administer its articles of agreement and jurisdiction, can not exempt themselves from any of
the leveling measures of neutralisation to which the dynastic suspects among them are to be
subject. It would mean a relinquishment of all those undemocratic institutional survivals out
of which international grievances are wont to arise. As a certain Danish adage would have it,
the neutrals of the league must all be shorn over the same comb.

       *       *       *       *       *

What is to be shorn over this one comb of neutralisation and democracy is all those who go
into the pacific league of neutrals and all who come under its jurisdiction, whether of their
own choice or by the necessities of the case. It is of the substance of the case that those
peoples who have been employed in the campaigns of the German-Imperial coalition are to come
in on terms of impartial equality with those who have held the ground against them; to come
under the jurisdiction, and prospectively into the copartnery, of the league of neutrals--all
on the presumption that the Imperial coalition will be brought to make peace on terms of unconditional
surrender.

Let it not seem presumptuous to venture on a recital of summary specifications intended to
indicate the nature of those concrete measures which would logically be comprised in a scheme
of pacification carried out with such a view to impartial equality among the peoples who are
to make up the projected league. There is a significant turn of expression that recurs habitually
in the formulation of terms put forth by the spokesmen of the Entente belligerents, where it
is insisted that hostilities are carried on not against the German people or the other peoples
associated with them, but only against the Imperial establishments and their culpable aids
and abettors in the enterprise. So it is further insisted that there is no intention to bring
pains and penalties on these peoples, who so have been made use of by their masters, but only
on the culpable master class whose tools these peoples have been. And later, just now (January
1917), and from a responsible and disinterested spokesman for the pacific league, there comes
the declaration that a lasting peace at the hands of such a league can be grounded only in
a present "peace without victory."

The mutual congruity of these two declarations need not imply collusion, but they are none
the less complementary propositions and they are none the less indicative of a common trend
of convictions among the men who are best able to speak for those pacific nations that are
looked to as the mainstay of the prospective league. They both converge to the point that the
objective to be achieved is not victory for the Entente belligerents but defeat for the German-Imperial
coalition; that the peoples underlying the defeated governments are not to be dealt with as
vanquished enemies but as fellows in undeserved misfortune brought on by their culpable masters;
and that no advantage is designed to be taken of these peoples, and no gratuitous hardship
to be imposed on them. Their masters are evidently to be put away, not as defeated antagonists
but as a public nuisance to be provided against as may seem expedient for the peace and security
of those nations whom they have been molesting.

Taking this position as outlined, it should not be extremely difficult to forecast the general
line of procedure which it would logically demand,--barring irrelevant regard for precedents
and overheated resentment, and provided that the makers of these peace terms have a free hand
and go to their work with an eye single to the establishment of an enduring peace. The case
of Germany would be typical of all the rest; and the main items of the bill in this case would
seem logically to run somewhat as follows:

(1) The definitive elimination of the Imperial establishment, together with the monarchical
establishments of the several states of the Empire and the privileged classes;

(2) Removal or destruction of all warlike equipment, military and naval, defensive and offensive;

(3) Cancelment of the public debt, of the Empire and of its members--creditors of the Empire
being accounted accessory to the culpable enterprise of the Imperial government;

(4) Confiscation of such industrial equipment and resources as have contributed to the carrying
on of the war, as being also accessory;

(5) Assumption by the league at large of all debts incurred, by the Entente belligerents or
by neutrals, for the prosecution or by reason of the war, and distribution of the obligation
so assumed, impartially among the members of the league, including the peoples of the defeated
nations;

(6) Indemnification for all injury done to civilians in the invaded territories; the means
for such indemnification to be procured by confiscation of all estates in the defeated countries
exceeding a certain very modest maximum, calculated on the average of property owned, say,
by the poorer three-fourths of the population,--the kept classes being properly accounted accessory
to the Empire's culpable enterprise.

The proposition to let the war debt be shared by all members of the league on a footing of
impartial equality may seem novel, and perhaps extravagant. But all projects put forth for
safeguarding the world's peace by a compact among the pacific nations run on the patent, though
often tacit, avowal that the Entente belligerents are spending their substance and pledging
their credit for the common cause. Among the Americans, the chief of the neutral nations, this
is coming to be recognised more and more overtly. So that, in this instance at least, no insurmountable
reluctance to take over their due share of the common burden should fairly be looked for, particularly
when it appears that the projected league, if it is organised on a footing of neutrality, will
relieve the republic of virtually all outlay for their own defense.

Of course, there is, in all this, no temerarious intention to offer advice as to what should
be done by those who have it to do, or even to sketch the necessary course which events are
bound to take. As has been remarked in another passage, that would have to be a work of prophesy
or of effrontery, both of which, it is hoped, lie equally beyond the horizon of this inquiry;
which is occupied with the question of what conditions will logically have to be met in order
to an enduring peace, not what will be the nature and outcome of negotiations entered into
by astute delegates pursuing the special advantage, each of his own nation. And yet the peremptory
need of reaching some practicable arrangement whereby the peace may be kept, goes to say that
even the most astute negotiations will in some degree be controlled by that need, and may reasonably
be expected to make some approach to the simple and obvious requirements of the situation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Therefore the argument returns to the United Kingdom and the probable limit of tolerance of
that people, in respect of what they are likely to insist on as a necessary measure of democratisation
in the nations of the second part, and what measure of national abnegation they are likely
to accommodate themselves to. The United Kingdom is indispensable to the formation of a pacific
league of neutrals. And the British terms of adhesion, or rather of initiation of such a league,
therefore, will have to constitute the core of the structure, on which details may be adjusted
and to which concessive adjustments will have to be made by all the rest. This is not saying
that the projected league must or will be dominated by the United Kingdom or administered in
the British interest. Indeed, it can not well be made to serve British particular interests
in any appreciable degree, except at the cost of defeat to its main purpose; since the purposes
of an enduring peace can be served only by an effectual neutralisation of national claims and
interests. But it would mean that the neutralisation of national interests and discriminations
to be effected would have to be drawn on lines acceptable to British taste in these matters,
and would have to go approximately so far as would be dictated by the British notions of what
is expedient, and not much farther. The pacific league of neutrals would have much of a British
air, but "British" in this connection is to be taken as connoting the English-speaking countries
rather than as applying to the United Kingdom alone; since the entrance of the British into
the league would involve the entrance of the British colonies, and, indeed, of the American
republic as well.

The temper and outlook of this British community, therefore, becomes a matter of paramount
importance in any attempted analysis of the situation resulting after the war, or of any prospective
course of conduct to be entered on by the pacific nations. And the question touches not so
much the temper and preconceptions of the British community as known in recent history, but
rather as it is likely to be modified by the war experience. So that the practicability of
a neutral league comes to turn, in great measure, on the effect which this war experience is
having on the habits of thought of the British people, or on that section of the British population
which will make up the effectual majority when the war closes. The grave interest that attaches
to this question must serve as justification for pursuing it farther, even though there can
be no promise of a definite or confident answer to be found beforehand.

Certain general assertions may be made with some confidence. The experiences of the war, particularly
among the immediate participants and among their immediate domestic connections--a large and
increasing proportion of the people at large--are plainly impressing on them the uselessness
and hardship of such a war. There can be no question but they are reaching a conviction that
a war of this modern kind and scale is a thing to be avoided if possible. They are, no doubt,
willing to go to very considerable lengths to make a repetition of it impossible, and they
may reasonably be expected to go farther along that line before peace returns. But the lengths
to which they are ready to go may be in the way of concessions, or in the way of contest and
compulsion. There need be no doubt but a profound and vindictive resentment runs through the
British community, and there is no reason to apprehend that this will be dissipated in the
course of further hostilities; although it should fairly be expected to lose something of its
earlier exuberant malevolence and indiscrimination, more particularly if hostilities continue
for some time. It is not too much to expect, that this popular temper of resentment will demand
something very tangible in the way of summary vengeance on those who have brought the hardships
of war upon the nation.

The manner of retribution which would meet the popular demand for "justice" to be done on the
enemy is likely to be affected by the fortunes of war, as also the incidence of it. Should
the governmental establishment and the discretion still vest in the gentlemanly classes at
the close of hostilities, the retribution is likely to take the accustomed gentlemanly shape
of pecuniary burdens imposed on the people of the defeated country, together with diplomatically
specified surrender of territorial and colonial possessions, and the like; such as to leave
the de facto enemy courteously on one side, and to yield something in the way of pecuniary
benefit to the gentlemen-investors in charge, and something more in the way of new emoluments
of office to the office-holding class included in the same order of gentlemen. The retribution
in the case would manifestly fall on the underlying population in the defeated country, without
seriously touching the responsible parties, and would leave the defeated nation with a new
grievance to nourish its patriotic animosity and with a new incentive to a policy of watchful
waiting for a chance of retaliation.

But it is to be noted that under the stress of the war there is going forward in the British
community a progressive displacement of gentlemanly standards and official procedure by standards
and procedure of a visibly underbred character, a weakening of the hold of the gentlemanly
classes on the control of affairs and a weakening of the hold which the sacred rights of property,
investment and privilege have long had over the imagination of the British people. Should hostilities
continue, and should the exigencies of the war situation continue to keep the futility of these
sacred rights, as well as the fatuity of their possessors, in the public eye, after the same
fashion as hitherto, it would not be altogether unreasonable to expect that the discretion
would pass into the hands of the underbred, or into the hands of men immediately and urgently
accountable to the underbred. In such a case, and with a constantly growing popular realisation
that the directorate and responsible enemy in the war is the Imperial dynasty and its pedigreed
aids and abettors, it is conceivable that the popular resentment would converge so effectually
on these responsible instigators and directors of misfortune as to bring the incidence of the
required retribution effectually to bear on them. The outcome might, not inconceivably, be
the virtual erasure of the Imperial dynasty, together with the pedigreed-class rule on which
it rests and the apparatus of irresponsible coercion through which it works, in the Fatherland
and in its subsidiaries and dependencies.

With a sufficiently urgent realisation of their need of peace and security, and with a realisation
also that the way to avoid war is to avoid the ways and means of international jealousy and
of the national discriminations out of which international jealousy grows, it is conceivable
that a government which should reflect the British temper and the British hopes might go so
far in insisting on a neutralisation of the peoples of the Fatherland as would leave them without
the dynastic apparatus with which warlike enterprise is set afoot, and so leave them also perforce
in a pacific frame of mind. In time, in the absence of their dearly beloved leavings of feudalism,
an enforced reliance on their own discretion and initiative, and an enforced respite from the
rant and prance of warlike swagger, would reasonably be expected to grow into a popular habit.
The German people are by no means less capable of tolerance and neighbourly decorum than their
British or Scandinavian neighbours of the same blood,--if they can only be left to their own
devices, untroubled by the maggoty conceit of national domination.

There is no intention herewith to express an expectation that this out-and-out neutralisation
of the Fatherland's international relations and of its dynastic government will come to pass
on the return of peace, or that the German people will, as a precaution against recurrent Imperial
rabies, be organised on a democratic pattern by constraint of the pacific nations of the league.
The point is only that this measure of neutralisation appears to be the necessary condition,
in the absence of which no such neutral league can succeed, and that so long as the war goes
on there is something of a chance that the British community may in time reach a frame of mind
combining such settled determination to safeguard the peace at all costs, with such a degree
of disregard for outworn conventions, that their spokesmen in the negotiations may push the
neutralisation of these peoples to that length.

The achievement of such an outcome would evidently take time as well as harsh experience, more
time and harsher experience, perhaps, than one likes to contemplate.

Most men, therefore, would scarcely rate the chance of such an outcome at all high. And yet
it is to be called to mind that the war has lasted long and the effect of its demands and its
experience has already gone far, and that the longer it lasts the greater are the chances of
its prolongation and of its continued hardships, at least to the extent that with every month
of war that passes the prospect of the allied nations making peace on any terms short of unconditional
surrender grows less. And unconditional surrender is the first step in the direction of an
unconditional dispossession of the Imperial establishment and its war prophets,--depending
primarily on the state of mind of the British people at the time. And however unlikely, it
is also always possible, as some contend, that in the course of further war experience the
common man in the Fatherland may come to reflect on the use and value of the Imperial establishment,
with the result of discarding and disowning it and all its works. Such an expectation would
doubtless underrate the force of ancient habit, and would also involve a misapprehension of
the psychological incidence of a warlike experience. The German people have substantially none
of those preconceptions of independence and self-direction to go on, in the absence of which
an effectual revulsion against dynastic rule can not come to pass.

Embedded in the common sense of the British population at large is a certain large and somewhat
sullen sense of fair dealing. In this they are not greatly different from their neighbours,
if at all, except that the body of common sense in which this British sense of fair dealing
lies embedded is a maturer fashion of common sense than that which serves to guide the workday
life of many of their neighbours. And the maturity in question appears to be chiefly a matter
of their having unlearned, divested themselves of, or been by force of disuse divested of,
an exceptionally large proportion of that burden of untoward conceits which western Europe,
and more particularly middle Europe, at large has carried over from the Middle Ages. They have
had time and occasion to forget more of what the exigencies of modern life make it expedient
to have forgotten. And yet they are reputed slow, conservative. But they have been well placed
for losing much of what would be well lost.

Among other things, their preconception of national animosity is not secure, in the absence
of provocation. They are now again in a position to learn to do without some of the useless
legacy out of the past,--useless, that is, for life as it runs today, however it may be rated
in the setting in which it was all placed in that past out of which it has come. And the question
is whether now, under the pressure of exigencies that make for a disestablishment of much cumbersome
inherited apparatus for doing what need not be done, they will be ruled by their sense of expediency
and of fair dealing to the extent of cancelling out of their own scheme of life so much of
this legacy of conventional preconceptions as has now come visibly to hinder their own material
well-being, and at the same time to defeat that peace and security for which they have shown
themselves willing to fight. It is, of course, a simpler matter to fight than it is to put
away a preconceived, even if it is a bootless, superstition; as, e.g., the prestige of hereditary
wealth, hereditary gentility, national vainglory, and perhaps especially national hatred. But
if the school is hard enough and the discipline protracted enough there is no reason in the
nature of things why the common run of the British people should not unlearn these futilities
that once were the substance of things under an older and outworn order. They have already
shown their capacity for divesting themselves of outworn institutional bonds, in discarding
the main substance of dynastic rule; and when they now come to face the exigencies of this
new situation it should cause no great surprise if they are able to see their way to do what
further is necessary to meet these exigencies.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the hands of this British commonwealth the new situation requires the putting away of the
German Imperial establishment and the military caste; the reduction of the German peoples to
a footing of unreserved democracy with sufficient guarantees against national trade discriminations;
surrender of all British tutelage over outlying possessions, except what may go to guarantee
their local autonomy; cancelment of all extra-territorial pretensions of the several nations
entering into the league; neutralisation of the several national establishments, to comprise
virtual disarmament, as well as cancelment of all restrictions on trade and of all national
defense of extra-territorial pecuniary claims and interests on the part of individual citizens.
The naval control of the seas will best be left in British hands. No people has a graver or
more immediate interest in the freedom and security of the sea-borne trade; and the United
Kingdom has shown that it is to be trusted in that matter. And then it may well be that neither
the national pride nor the apprehensions of the British people would allow them to surrender
it; whereas, if the league is to be formed it will have to be on terms to which the British
people are willing to adhere. A certain provision of armed force will also be needed to keep
the governments of unneutral nations in check,--and for the purpose in hand all effectively
monarchical countries are to be counted as congenitally unneutral, whatever their formal professions
and whether they are members of the league or not. Here again it will probably appear that
the people of the United Kingdom, and of the English-speaking countries at large, will not
consent to this armed force and its discretionary use passing out of British hands, or rather
out of French-British hands; and here again the practical decision will have to wait on the
choice of the British people, all the more because the British community has no longer an interest,
real or fancied, in the coercive use of this force for their own particular ends. No other
power is to be trusted, except France, and France is less well placed for the purpose and would
assuredly also not covet so invidious an honour and so thankless an office.

       *       *       *       *       *

The theory, i.e. the logical necessities, of such a pacific league of neutral nations is simple
enough, in its elements. War is to be avoided by a policy of avoidance. Which signifies that
the means and the motives to warlike enterprise and warlike provocation are to be put away,
so far as may be. If what may be, in this respect, does not come up to the requirements of
the case, the experiment, of course, will fail. The preliminary requirement,--elimination of
the one formidable dynastic State in Europe,--has been spoken of. Its counterpart in the Far
East will cease to be formidable on the decease of its natural ally in Central Europe, in so
far as touches the case of such a projected league. The ever increasingly dubious empire of
the Czar would appear to fall in the same category. So that the pacific league's fortunes would
seem to turn on what may be called its domestic or internal arrangements.

Now, the means of warlike enterprise, as well as of unadvised embroilment, is always in the
last analysis the patriotic spirit of the nation. Given this patriotic spirit in sufficient
measure, both the material equipment and the provocation to hostilities will easily be found.
It should accordingly appear to be the first care of such a pacific league to reduce the sources
of patriotic incitement to the practicable minimum. This can be done, in such measure as it
can be done at all, by neutralisation of national pretensions. The finished outcome in this
respect, such as would assure perpetual peace among the peoples concerned, would of course
be an unconditional neutralisation of citizenship, as has already been indicated before. The
question which, in effect, the spokesmen for a pacific league have to face is as to how nearly
that outcome can be brought to pass. The rest of what they may undertake, or may come to by
way of compromise and stipulation, is relatively immaterial and of relatively transient consequence.

A neutralisation of citizenship has of course been afloat in a somewhat loose way in the projects
of socialistic and other "undesirable" agitators, but nothing much has come of it. Nor have
specific projects for its realisation been set afoot. That anything conclusive along that line
could now be reached would seem extremely doubtful, in view of the ardent patriotic temper
of all these peoples, heightened just now by the experience of war. Still, an undesigned and
unguided drift in that direction has been visible in all those nations that are accounted the
vanguard among modern civilised peoples, ever since the dynastic rule among them began to be
displaced by a growth of "free" institutions, that is to say institutions resting on an accepted
ground of insubordination and free initiative.

The patriotism of these peoples, or their national spirit, is after all and at the best an
attenuated and impersonalised remnant of dynastic loyalty, and it amounts after all, in effect,
to nothing much else than a residual curtailment or partial atrophy of that democratic habit
of mind that embodies itself in the formula: Live and let live. It is, no doubt, both an ancient
and a very meritorious habit. It is easily acquired and hard to put away. The patriotic spirit
and the national life (prestige) on which it centers are the subject of untiring eulogy; but
hitherto its encomiasts have shown no cause and put forward no claim to believe that it all
is of any slightest use for any purpose that does not take it and its paramount merit for granted.
It is doubtless a very meritorious habit; at least so they all say. But under the circumstances
of modern civilised life it is fruitful of no other net material result than damage and discomfort.
Still it is virtually ubiquitous among civilised men, and in an admirable state of repair;
and for the calculable future it is doubtless to be counted in as an enduring obstacle to a
conclusive peace, a constant source of anxiety and unremitting care.

The motives that work out through this national spirit, by use of this patriotic ardor, fall
under two heads: dynastic ambition, and business enterprise. The two categories have the common
trait that neither the one nor the other comprises anything that is of the slightest material
benefit to the community at large; but both have at the same time a high prestige value in
the conventional esteem of modern men. The relation of dynastic ambition to warlike enterprise,
and the uses of that usufruct of the nation's resources and man-power which the nation's patriotism
places at the disposal of the dynastic establishment, have already been spoken of at length
above, perhaps at excessive length, in the recurrent discussion of the dynastic State and its
quest of dominion for dominion's sake. What measures are necessary to be taken as regards the
formidable dynastic States that threaten the peace, have also been outlined, perhaps with excessive
freedom.

But it remains to call attention to that mitigated form of dynastic rule called a constitutional
monarchy. Instances of such a constitutional monarchy, designed to conserve the well-beloved
abuses of dynastic rule under a cover of democratic formalities, or to bring in effectual democratic
insubordination under cover of the ancient dignities of an outworn monarchical system,--the
characterisation may run either way according to the fancy of the speaker, and to much the
same practical effect in either case,--instances illustrative of this compromise monarchy at
work today are to be had, as felicitously as anywhere, in the Balkan states; perhaps the case
of Greece will be especially instructive. At the other, and far, end of the line will be found
such other typical instances as the British, the Dutch, or, in pathetic and droll miniature,
the Norwegian.

There is, of course, a wide interval between the grotesque effrontery that wears the Hellenic
crown and the undeviatingly decorous self-effacement of the Dutch sovereign; and yet there
is something of a common complexion runs through the whole range of establishments, all the
way from the quasi-dynastic to the pseudo-dynastic. For reasons unavoidable and persistent,
though not inscribed in the constituent law, the governmental establishment associated with
such a royal concern will be made up of persons drawn from the kept classes, the nobility or
lesser gentlefolk, and will be imbued with the spirit of these "better" classes rather than
that of the common run.

With what may be uncanny shrewdness, or perhaps mere tropismatic response to the unreasoned
stimulus of a "consciousness of kind," the British government--habitually a syndicate of gentlefolk--has
uniformly insisted on the installation of a constitutional monarchy at the formation of every
new national organisation in which that government has had a discretionary voice. And the many
and various constitutional governments so established, commonly under British auspices in some
degree, have invariably run true to form, in some appreciable degree. They may be quasi-dynastic
or pseudo-dynastic, but at this nearest approach to democracy they always, and unavoidably,
include at least a circumlocution office of gentlefolk, in the way of a ministry and court
establishment, whose place in the economy of the nation's affairs it is to adapt the run of
these affairs to the needs of the kept classes.

There need be no imputation of sinister designs to these gentlefolk, who so are elected by
force of circumstances to guard and guide the nation's interests. As things go, it will doubtless
commonly be found that they are as well-intentioned as need be. But a well-meaning gentleman
of good antecedents means well in a gentlemanly way and in the light of good antecedents. Which
comes unavoidably to an effectual bias in favor of those interests which honorable gentlemen
of good antecedents have at heart. And among these interests are the interests of the kept
classes, as contrasted with that common run of the population from which their keep is drawn.

Under the auspices, even if they are only the histrionic and decorative auspices, of so decorous
an article of institutional furniture as royalty, it follows of logical necessity that the
personnel of the effectual government must also be drawn from the better classes, whose place
and station and high repute will make their association with the First Gentleman of the Realm
not too insufferably incongruous. And then, the popular habit of looking up to this First Gentleman
with that deference that royalty commands, also conduces materially to the attendant habitual
attitude of deference to gentility more at large.

Even in so democratic a country, and with so exanimate a crown as is to be found in the United
Kingdom, the royal establishment visibly, and doubtless very materially, conduces to the continued
tenure of the effectual government by representatives of the kept classes; and it therefore
counts with large effect toward the retardation of the country's further move in the direction
of democratic insubordination and direct participation in the direction of affairs by the underbred,
who finally pay the cost. And on the other hand, even so moderately royal an establishment
as the Norwegian has apparently a sensible effect in the way of gathering the reins somewhat
into the hands of the better classes, under circumstances of such meagerness as might be expected
to preclude anything like a "better" class, in the conventional acceptation of that term. It
would appear that even the extreme of pseudo-dynastic royalty, sterilised to the last degree,
is something of an effectual hindrance to democratic rule, and in so far also a hindrance to
the further continued neutralisation of nationalist pretensions, as also an effectual furtherance
of upper-class rule for upper-class ends.

Now, a government by well-meaning gentlemen-investors will, at the nearest, come no nearer
representing the material needs and interests of the common run than a parable comes to representing
the concrete facts which it hopes to illuminate. And as bears immediately on the point in hand,
these gentlemanly administrators of the nation's affairs who so cluster about the throne, vacant
though it may be of all but the bodily presence of majesty, are after all gentlemen, with a
gentlemanly sense of punctilio touching the large proprieties and courtesies of political life.
The national honor is a matter of punctilio, always; and out of the formal exigencies of the
national honor arise grievances to be redressed; and it is grievances of this character that
commonly afford the formal ground of a breach of the peace. An appeal on patriotic grounds
of wounded national pride, to the common run who have no trained sense of punctilio, by the
gentlemanly responsible class who have such a sense, backed by assurances that the national
prestige or the national interests are at stake, will commonly bring a suitable response. It
is scarcely necessary that the common run should know just what the stir is about, so long
as they are informed by their trusted betters that there is a grievance to redress. In effect,
it results that the democratic nation's affairs are administered by a syndicate composed of
the least democratic class in the population.

Excepting what is to be excepted, it will commonly hold true today that these gentlemanly governments
are conducted in a commendably clean and upright fashion, with a conscious rectitude and a
benevolent intention. But they are after all, in effect, class governments, and they unavoidably
carry the bias of their class. The gentlemanly officials and law-givers come, in the main,
from the kept classes, whose living comes to them in the way of income from investments, at
home or in foreign parts, or from an equivalent source of accumulated wealth or official emolument.
The bias resulting from this state of the case need not be of an intolerant character in order
to bring its modicum of mischief into the national policy, as regards amicable relations with
other nationalities. A slight bias running on a ground of conscious right and unbroken usage
may go far. So, e.g., anyone of these gentlemanly governments is within its legitimate rights,
or rather within its imperative duty, in defending the foreign investments of its citizens
and enforcing due payment of its citizens' claims to income or principal of such property as
they may hold in foreign parts; and it is within its ordinary lines of duty in making use of
the nation's resources--that is to say of the common man and his means of livelihood--in enforcing
such claims held by the investing classes. The community at large has no interest in the enforcement
of such claims; it is evidently a class interest, and as evidently protected by a code of rights,
duties and procedure that has grown out of a class bias, at the cost of the community at large.

This bias favoring the interests of invested wealth may also, and indeed it commonly does,
take the aggressive form of aggressively forwarding enterprise in investment abroad, particularly
in commercially backward countries abroad, by extension of the national jurisdiction and the
active countenancing of concessions in foreign parts, by subventions, or by creation of offices
to bring suitable emoluments to the younger sons of deserving families. The protective tariffs
to which recourse is sometimes had, are of the same general nature and purpose. Of course,
it is in this latter, aggressive or excursive, issue of the well-to-do bias in favor of investment
and invested wealth that its most pernicious effect on international relations is traceable.

Free income, that is to say income not dependent on personal merit or exertion of any kind,
is the breath of life to the kept classes; and as a corollary of the "First Law of Nature,"
therefore, the invested wealth which gives a legally equitable claim to such income has in
their eyes all the sanctity that can be given by Natural Right. Investment--often spoken of
euphemistically as "savings"--is consequently a meritorious act, conceived to be very serviceable
to the community at large, and properly to be furthered by all available means. Invested wealth
is so much added to the aggregate means at the community's disposal, it is believed. Of course,
in point of fact, income from investment in the hands of these gentlefolk is a means of tracelessly
consuming that much of the community's yearly product; but to the kept classes, who see the
matter from the point of view of the recipient, the matter does not present itself in that
light. To them it is the breath of life. Like other honorable men they are faithful to their
bread; and by authentic tradition the common man, in whose disciplined preconceptions the kept
classes are his indispensable betters, is also imbued with the uncritical faith that the invested
wealth which enables these betters tracelessly to consume a due share of the yearly product
is an addition to the aggregate means in hand.

The advancement of commercial and other business enterprise beyond the national frontiers is
consequently one of the duties not to be neglected, and with which no trifling can be tolerated.
It is so bound up with national ideals, under any gentlemanly government, that any invasion
or evasion of the rights of investors in foreign parts, or of other business involved in dealings
with foreign parts, immediately involves not only the material interest of the nation but the
national honour as well. Hence international jealousies and eventual embroilment.

The constitutional monarchy that commonly covers a modern democratic community is accordingly
a menace to the common peace, and any pacific league of neutrals will be laying up trouble
and prospective defeat for itself in allowing such an institution to stand over in any instance.
Acting with a free hand, if such a thing were possible, the projected league should logically
eliminate all monarchical establishments, constitutional or otherwise, from among its federated
nations. It is doubtless not within reason to look for such a move in the negotiations that
are to initiate the projected league of neutrals; but the point is called to mind here chiefly
as indicating one of the difficult passages which are to be faced in any attempted formation
of such a league, as well as one of the abiding sources of international irritation with which
the league's jurisdiction will be burdened so long as a decisive measure of the kind is not taken.

The logic of the whole matter is simple enough, and the necessary measures to be taken to remedy
it are no less simple--barring sentimental objections which will probably prove insuperable.
A monarchy, even a sufficiently inane monarchy, carries the burden of a gentlemanly governmental
establishment--a government by and for the kept classes; such a government will unavoidably
direct the affairs of state with a view to income on invested wealth, and will see the material
interests of the country only in so far as they present themselves under the form of investment
and business enterprise designed to eventuate in investment; these are the only forms of material
interest that give rise to international jealousies, discriminations and misunderstanding,
at the same time that they are interests of individuals only and have no material use or value
to the community at large. Given a monarchical establishment and the concomitant gentlemanly
governmental corps, there is no avoiding this sinister prime mover of international rivalry,
so long as the rights of invested wealth continue in popular apprehension to be held inviolable.

Quite obviously there is a certain tu quoque ready to the hand of these "gentlemen of the old
school" who see in the constitutional monarchy a God-given shelter from the unreserved vulgarisation
of life at the hands of the unblest and unbalanced underbred and underfed. The formally democratic
nations, that have not retained even a pseudo-dynastic royalty, are not much more fortunately
placed in respect of national discrimination in trade and investment. The American republic
will obviously come into the comparison as the type-form of economic policy in a democratic
commonwealth. There is little to choose between the economic policy pursued by such republics
as France or America on the one side and their nearest counterparts among the constitutional
monarchies on the other. It is even to be admitted out of hand that the comparison does no
credit to democratic institutions as seen at work in these republics. They are, in fact, somewhat
the crudest and most singularly foolish in their economic policy of any peoples in Christendom.
And in view of the amazing facility with which these democratic commonwealths are always ready
to delude themselves in everything that touches their national trade policies, it is obvious
that any league of neutrals whose fortunes are in any degree contingent on their reasonable
compliance with a call to neutralise their trade regulations for the sake of peace, will have
need of all the persuasive power it can bring to bear.

However, the powers of darkness have one less line of defense to shelter them and their work
of malversation in these commonwealths than in the constitutional monarchies. The American
national establishment, e.g., which may be taken as a fairly characteristic type-form in this
bearing, is a government of businessmen for business ends; and there is no tabu of axiomatic
gentility or of certified pedigree to hedge about this working syndicate of business interests.
So that it is all nearer by one remove to the disintegrating touch of the common man and his
commonplace circumstances. The businesslike régime of these democratic politicians is as undeviating
in its advocacy and aid of enterprise in pursuit of private gain under shelter of national
discrimination as the circumstances will permit; and the circumstances will permit them to
do much and go far; for the limits of popular gullibility in all things that touch the admirable
feats of business enterprise are very wide in these countries. There is a sentimental popular
belief running to the curious effect that because the citizens of such a commonwealth are ungraded
equals before the law, therefore somehow they can all and several become wealthy by trading
at the expense of their neighbours.

Yet, the fact remains that there is only the one line of defense in these countries where the
business interests have not the countenance of a time-honored order of gentlefolk, with the
sanction of royalty in the background. And this fact is further enhanced by one of its immediate
consequences. Proceeding upon the abounding faith which these peoples have in business enterprise
as a universal solvent, the unreserved venality and greed of their businessmen--unhampered
by the gentleman's noblesse oblige--have pushed the conversion of public law to private gain
farther and more openly here than elsewhere. The outcome has been divers measures in restraint
of trade or in furtherance of profitable abuses, of such a crass and flagrant character that
if once the popular apprehension is touched by matter-of-fact reflection on the actualities
of this businesslike policy the whole structure should reasonably be expected to crumble. If
the present conjuncture of circumstances should, e.g., present to the American populace a choice
between exclusion from the neutral league, and a consequent probable and dubious war of self-defense,
on the one hand; as against entrance into the league, and security at the cost of relinquishing
their national tariff in restraint of trade, on the other hand, it is always possible that
the people might be brought to look their protective tariff in the face and recognise it for
a commonplace conspiracy in restraint of trade, and so decide to shuffle it out of the way
as a good riddance. And the rest of the Republic's businesslike policy of special favors would
in such a case stand a chance of going in the discard along with the protective tariff, since
the rest is of substantially the same disingenuous character.

Not that anyone need entertain a confident expectation of such an exploit of common sense on
the part of the American voters. There is little encouragement for such a hope in their past
career of gullibility on this head. But this is again a point of difficulty to be faced in
negotiations looking to such a pacific league of neutrals. Without a somewhat comprehensive
neutralisation of national trade regulations, the outlook for lasting peace would be reduced
by that much; there would be so much material for international jealousy and misunderstanding
left standing over and requiring continued readjustment and compromise, always with the contingency
of a breach that much nearer. The infatuation of the Americans with their protective tariff
and other businesslike discriminations is a sufficiently serious matter in this connection,
and it is always possible that their inability to give up this superstition might lead to their
not adhering to this projected neutral league. Yet it is at least to be said that the longer
the time that passes before active measures are taken toward the organisation of such a league--that
is to say, in effect, the longer the great war lasts--the more amenable is the temper of the
Americans likely to be, and the more reluctantly would they see themselves excluded. Should
the war be protracted to some such length as appears to be promised by latterday pronunciamentos
from the belligerents, or to something passably approaching such a duration; and should the
Imperial designs and anomalous diplomacy of Japan continue to force themselves on the popular
attention at the present rate; at the same time that the operations in Europe continue to demonstrate
the excessive cost of defense against a well devised and resolute offensive; then it should
reasonably be expected that the Americans might come to such a realisation of their own case
as to let no minor considerations of trade discrimination stand in the way of their making
common cause with the other pacific nations.

It appears already to be realised in the most responsible quarter that America needs the succor
of the other pacific nations, with a need that is not to be put away or put off; as it is also
coming to be realised that the Imperial Powers are disturbers of the peace, by force of their
Imperial character. Of course, the politicians who seek their own advantage in the nation's
embarrassment are commonly unable to see the matter in that light. But it is also apparent
that the popular sentiment is affected with the same apprehension, more and more as time passes
and the aims and methods of the Imperial Powers become more patent.

Hitherto the spokesmen of a pacific federation of nations have spoken for a league of such
an (indeterminate) constitution as to leave all the federated nations undisturbed in all their
conduct of their own affairs, domestic or international; probably for want of second thought
as to the complications of copartnership between them in so grave and unwonted an enterprise.
They have also spoken of America's share in the project as being that of an interested outsider,
whose interest in any precautionary measures of this kind is in part a regard for his own tranquility
as a disinterested neighbour, but in greater part a humane solicitude for the well-being of
civilised mankind at large. In this view, somewhat self-complacent it is to be admitted, America
is conceived to come into the case as initiator and guide, about whom the pacific nations are
to cluster as some sort of queen-bee.

Now, there is not a little verisimilitude in this conception of America as a sort of central
office and a tower of strength in the projected federation of neutral nations, however pharisaical
an appearance it may all have in the self-complacent utterances of patriotic Americans. The
American republic is, after all, the greatest of the pacific nations of Christendom, in resources,
population and industrial capacity; and it is also not to be denied that the temper of this
large population is, on the whole, as pacific as that of any considerable people--outside of
China. The adherence of the American republic would, in effect, double the mass and powers
of the projected league, and would so place it beyond all hazard of defeat from without, or
even of serious outside opposition to its aims.

Yet it will not hold true that America is either disinterested or indispensable. The unenviable
position of the indispensable belongs to the United Kingdom, and carries with it the customary
suspicion of interested motives that attaches to the stronger party in a bargain. To America,
on the other hand, the league is indispensable, as a refuge from otherwise inevitable dangers
ahead; and it is only a question of a moderate allowance of time for the American voters to
realise that without an adequate copartnership with the other pacific nations the outlook of
the Republic is altogether precarious. Single-handed, America can not defend itself, except
at a prohibitive cost; whereas in copartnership with these others the national defense becomes
a virtually negligible matter. It is for America a choice between a policy of extravagant armament
and aggressive diplomacy, with a doubtful issue, on the one side, and such abatement of national
pretensions as would obviate bootless contention, on the other side.

Yet, it must be admitted, the patriotic temper of the American people is of such a susceptible
kind as to leave the issue in doubt. Not that the Americans will not endeavor to initiate some
form of compact for the keeping of the peace, when hostilities are concluded; barring unforeseen
contingencies, it is virtually a foregone conclusion that the attempt will be made, and that
the Americans will take an active part in its promotion. But the doubt is as to their taking
such a course as will lead to a compact of the kind needed to safeguard the peace of the country.
The business interests have much to say in the counsels of the Americans, and these business
interests look to short-term gains--American business interests particularly--to be derived
from the country's necessities. It is likely to appear that the business interests, through
representatives in Congress and elsewhere, will disapprove of any peace compact that does not
involve an increase of the national armament and a prospective demand for munitions and an
increased expenditure of the national funds.

With or without the adherence of America, the pacific nations of Europe will doubtless endeavour
to form a league or alliance designed to keep the peace. If America does not come into the
arrangement it may well come to nothing much more than a further continued defensive alliance
of the belligerent nations now opposed to the German coalition. In any case it is still a point
in doubt whether the league so projected is to be merely a compact of defensive armament against
a common enemy--in which case it will necessarily be transient, perhaps ephemeral--or a more
inclusive coalition of a closer character designed to avoid any breach of the peace, by disarmament
and by disallowance and disclaimer of such national pretensions and punctilio as the patriotic
sentiment of the contracting parties will consent to dispense with. The nature of the resulting
peace, therefore, as well as its chances of duration, will in great measure be conditioned
on the fashion of peace-compact on which it is to rest; which will be conditioned in good part
on the degree in which the warlike coalition under German Imperial control is effectually to
be eliminated from the situation as a prospective disturber of the peace; which, in turn, is
a question somewhat closely bound up with the further duration of the war, as has already been
indicated in an earlier passage.

CHAPTER VII

PEACE AND THE PRICE SYSTEM

Evidently the conception of peace on which its various spokesmen are proceeding is by no means
the same for all of them. In the current German conception, e.g., as seen in the utterances
of its many and urgent spokesmen, peace appears to be of the general nature of a truce between
nations, whose God-given destiny it is, in time, to adjust a claim to precedence by wager of
battle. They will sometimes speak of it, euphemistically, with a view to conciliation, as "assurance
of the national future," in which the national future is taken to mean an opportunity for the
extension of the national dominion at the expense of some other national establishment. In
the same connection one may recall the many eloquent passages on the State and its paramount
place and value in the human economy. The State is useful for disturbing the peace. This German
notion may confidently be set down as the lowest of the current conceptions of peace; or perhaps
rather as the notion of peace reduced to the lowest terms at which it continues to be recognisable
as such. Next beyond in that direction lies the notion of armistice; which differs from this
conception of peace chiefly in connoting specifically a definite and relatively short interval
between warlike operations.

The conception of peace as being a period of preparation for war has many adherents outside
the Fatherland, of course. Indeed, it has probably a wider vogue and a readier acceptance among
men who interest themselves in questions of peace and war than any other. It goes hand in hand
with that militant nationalism that is taken for granted, conventionally, as the common ground
of those international relations that play a part in diplomatic intercourse. It is the diplomatist's
métier to talk war in parables of peace. This conception of peace as a precarious interval
of preparation has come down to the present out of the feudal age and is, of course, best at
home where the feudal range of preconceptions has suffered least dilapidation; and it carries
the feudalistic presumption that all national establishments are competitors for dominion,
after the scheme of Macchiavelli. The peace which is had on this footing, within the realm,
is a peace of subjection, more or less pronounced according as the given national establishment
is more or less on the militant order; a warlike organisation being necessarily of a servile
character, in the same measure in which it is warlike.

In much the same measure and with much the same limitations as the modern democratic nations
have departed from the feudal system of civil relations and from the peculiar range of conceptions
which characterise that system, they have also come in for a new or revised conception of peace.
Instead of its being valued chiefly as a space of time in which to prepare for war, offensive
or defensive, among these democratic and provisionally pacific nations it has come to stand
in the common estimation as the normal and stable manner of life, good and commendable in its
own right. These modern, pacific, commonwealths stand on the defensive, habitually. They are
still pugnaciously national, but they have unlearned so much of the feudal preconceptions as
to leave them in a defensive attitude, under the watch-word: Peace with honour. Their quasi-feudalistic
national prestige is not to be trifled with, though it has lost so much of its fascination
as ordinarily not to serve the purposes of an aggressive enterprise, at least not without some
shrewd sophistication at the hands of militant politicians and their diplomatic agents. Of
course, an exuberant patriotism may now and again take on the ancient barbarian vehemence and
lead such a provisionally pacific nation into an aggressive raid against a helpless neighbour;
but it remains characteristically true, after all, that these peoples look on the country's
peace as the normal and ordinary course of things, which each nation is to take care of for
itself and by its own force.

The ideal of the nineteenth-century statesmen was to keep the peace by a balance of power;
an unstable equilibrium of rivalries, in which it was recognised that eternal vigilance was
the price of peace by equilibration. Since then, by force of the object-lesson of the twentieth-century
wars, it has become evident that eternal vigilance will no longer keep the peace by equilibration,
and the balance of power has become obsolete. At the same time things have so turned that an
effective majority of the civilised nations now see their advantage in peace, without further
opportunity to seek further dominion. These nations have also been falling into the shape of
commonwealths, and so have lost something of their national spirit.

With much reluctant hesitation and many misgivings, the statesmen of these pacific nations
are accordingly busying themselves with schemes for keeping the peace on the unfamiliar footing
of a stable equilibrium; the method preferred on the whole being an equilibration of make-believe,
in imitation of the obsolete balance of power. There is a meticulous regard for national jealousies
and discriminations, which it is thought necessary to keep intact. Of course, on any one of
these slightly diversified plans of keeping the peace on a stable footing of copartnery among
the pacific nations, national jealousies and national integrity no longer have any substantial
meaning. But statesmen think and plan in terms of precedent; which comes to thinking and planning
in terms of make-believe, when altered circumstances have made the precedents obsolete. So
one comes to the singular proposal of the statesmen, that the peace is to be kept in concert
among these pacific nations by a provision of force with which to break it at will. The peace
that is to be kept on this footing of national discriminations and national armaments will
necessarily be of a precarious kind; being, in effect, a statesmanlike imitation of the peace
as it was once kept even more precariously by the pacific nations in severalty.

Hitherto the movement toward peace has not gone beyond this conception of it, as a collusive
safeguarding of national discrepancies by force of arms. Such a peace is necessarily precarious,
partly because armed force is useful for breaking the peace, partly because the national discrepancies,
by which these current peace-makers set such store, are a constant source of embroilment. What
the peace-makers might logically be expected to concern themselves about would be the elimination
of these discrepancies that make for embroilment. But what they actually seem concerned about
is their preservation. A peace by collusive neglect of those remnants of feudalistic make-believe
that still serve to divide the pacific nations has hitherto not seriously come under advisement.

Evidently, hitherto, and for the calculable future, peace is a relative matter, a matter of
more or less, whichever of the several working conceptions spoken of above may rule the case.
Evidently, too, a peace designed to strengthen the national establishment against eventual
war, will count to a different effect from a collusive peace of a defensive kind among the
pacific peoples, designed by its projectors to conserve those national discrepancies on which
patriotic statesmen like to dwell. Different from both would be the value of a peace by neglect
of such useless national discriminations as now make for embroilment. A protracted season of
peace should logically have a somewhat different cultural value according to the character
of the public policy to be pursued under its cover. So that a safe and sane conservation of
the received law and order should presumably best be effected under cover of a collusive peace
of the defensive kind, which is designed to retain those national discrepancies intact that
count for so much in the national life of today, both as a focus of patriotic sentiment and
as an outlet for national expenditures. This plan would involve the least derangement of the
received order among the democratic peoples, although the plan might itself undergo some change
in the course of time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Among the singularities of the latterday situation, in this connection, and brought out by
the experiences of the great war, is a close resemblance between latterday warlike operations
and the ordinary processes of industry. Modern warfare and modern industry alike are carried
on by technological processes subject to surveillance and direction by mechanical engineers,
or perhaps rather experts in engineering science of the mechanistic kind. War is not now a
matter of the stout heart and strong arm. Not that these attributes do not have their place
and value in modern warfare; but they are no longer the chief or decisive factors in the case.
The exploits that count in this warfare are technological exploits; exploits of technological
science, industrial appliances, and technological training. As has been remarked before, it
is no longer a gentlemen's war, and the gentleman, as such, is no better than a marplot in
the game as it is played.

Certain consequences follow from this state of the case. Technology and industrial experience,
in large volume and at a high proficiency, are indispensable to the conduct of war on the modern
plan, as well as a large, efficient and up-to-date industrial community and industrial plant
to supply the necessary material of this warfare. At the same time the discipline of the campaign,
as it impinges on the rank and file as well as on the very numerous body of officers and technicians,
is not at cross purposes with the ordinary industrial employments of peace, or not in the same
degree as has been the case in the past, even in the recent past. The experience of the campaign
does not greatly unfit the men who survive for industrial uses; nor does it come in as a sheer
interruption of their industrial training, or break the continuity of that range of habits
of thought which modern industry of the technological order induces; not in the same degree
as was the case under the conditions of war as carried on in the nineteenth century. The cultural,
and particularly the technological, incidence of this modern warfare should evidently be appreciably
different from what has been experienced in the past, and from what this past experience has
induced students of these matters to look for among the psychological effects of warlike experience.

It remains true that the discipline of the campaign, however impersonal it may tend to become,
still inculcates personal subordination and unquestioning obedience; and yet the modern tactics
and methods of fighting bear somewhat more on the individual's initiative, discretion, sagacity
and self-possession than once would have been true. Doubtless the men who come out of this
great war, the common men, will bring home an accentuated and acrimonious patriotism, a venomous
hatred of the enemies whom they have missed killing; but it may reasonably be doubted if they
come away with a correspondingly heightened admiration and affection for their betters who
have failed to make good as foremen in charge of this teamwork in killing. The years of the
war have been trying to the reputation of officials and officers, who have had to meet uncharted
exigencies with not much better chance of guessing the way through than their subalterns have had.

By and large, it is perhaps not to be doubted that the populace now under arms will return
from the experience of the war with some net gain in loyalty to the nation's honour and in
allegiance to their masters; particularly the German subjects,--the like is scarcely true for
the British; but a doubt will present itself as to the magnitude of this net gain in subordination,
or this net loss in self-possession. A doubt may be permitted as to whether the common man
in the countries of the Imperial coalition, e.g., will, as the net outcome of this war experience,
be in a perceptibly more pliable frame of mind as touches his obligations toward his betters
and subservience to the irresponsible authority exercised by the various governmental agencies,
than he was at the outbreak of the war. At that time, there is reason to believe, there was
an ominous, though scarcely threatening, murmur of discontent beginning to be heard among the
working classes of the industrial towns. It is fair to presume, however, that the servile discipline
of the service and the vindictive patriotism bred of the fight should combine to render the
populace of the Fatherland more amenable to the irresponsible rule of the Imperial dynasty
and its subaltern royal establishments, in spite of any slight effect of a contrary character
exercised by the training in technological methods and in self-reliance, with which this discipline
of the service has been accompanied. As to the case of the British population, under arms or
under compulsion of necessity at home, something has already been said in an earlier passage;
and much will apparently depend, in their case, on the further duration of the war. The case
of the other nationalities involved, both neutrals and belligerents, is even more obscure in
this bearing, but it is also of less immediate consequence for the present argument.

       *       *       *       *       *

The essentially feudal virtues of loyalty and bellicose patriotism would appear to have gained
their great ascendency over all men's spirit within the Western civilisation by force of the
peculiarly consistent character of the discipline of life under feudal conditions, whether
in war or peace; and to the same uniformity of these forces that shaped the workday habits
of thought among the feudal nations is apparently due that profound institutionalisation of
the preconceptions of patriotism and loyalty, by force of which these preconceptions still
hold the modern peoples in an unbreakable web of prejudice, after the conditions favoring their
acquirement have in great part ceased to operate. These preconceptions of national solidarity
and international enmity have come down from the past as an integral part of the unwritten
constitution underlying all these modern nations, even those which have departed most widely
from the manner of life to which the peoples owe these ancient preconceptions. Hitherto, or
rather until recent times, the workday experience of these peoples has not seriously worked
at cross purposes with the patriotic spirit and its bias of national animosity; and what discrepancy
there has effectively been between the discipline of workday life and the received institutional
preconceptions on this head, has hitherto been overborne by the unremitting inculcation of
these virtues by interested politicians, priests and publicists, who speak habitually for the
received order of things.

That order of things which is known on its political and civil side as the feudal system, together
with that era of the dynastic States which succeeds the feudal age technically so called, was,
on its industrial or technological side, a system of trained man-power organised on a plan
of subordination of man to man. On the whole, the scheme and logic of that life, whether in
its political (warlike) or its industrial doings, whether in war or peace, runs on terms of
personal capacity, proficiency and relations. The organisation of the forces engaged and the
constraining rules according to which this organisation worked, were of the nature of personal
relations, and the impersonal factors in the case were taken for granted. Politics and war
were a field for personal valor, force and cunning, in practical effect a field for personal
force and fraud. Industry was a field in which the routine of life, and its outcome, turned
on "the skill, dexterity and judgment of the individual workman," in the words of Adam Smith.

The feudal age passed, being done to death by handicraft industry, commercial traffic, gunpowder,
and the state-making politicians. But the political States of the statemakers, the dynastic
States as they may well be called, continued the conduct of political life on the personal
plane of rivalry and jealousy between dynasties and between their States; and in spite of gunpowder
and the new military engineering, warfare continued also to be, in the main and characteristically,
a field in which man-power and personal qualities decided the outcome, by virtue of personal
"skill, dexterity and judgment." Meantime industry and its technology by insensible degrees
underwent a change in the direction of impersonalisation, particularly in those countries in
which state-making and its warlike enterprise had ceased, or were ceasing, to be the chief
interests and the controlling preconception of the people.

The logic of the new, mechanical industry which has supplanted handicraft in these countries,
is a mechanistic logic, which proceeds in terms of matter-of-fact strains, masses, velocities,
and the like, instead of the "skill, dexterity and judgment" of personal agents. The new industry
does not dispense with the personal agencies, nor can it even be said to minimise the need
of skill, dexterity and judgment in the personal agents employed, but it does take them and
their attributes for granted as in some sort a foregone premise to its main argument. The logic
of the handicraft system took the impersonal agencies for granted; the machine industry takes
the skill, dexterity and judgment of the workmen for granted. The processes of thought, and
therefore the consistent habitual discipline, of the former ran in terms of the personal agents
engaged, and of the personal relations of discretion, control and subordination necessary to
the work; whereas the mechanistic logic of the modern technology, more and more consistently,
runs in terms of the impersonal forces engaged, and inculcates an habitual predilection for
matter-of-fact statement, and an habitual preconception that the findings of material science
alone are conclusive.

In those nations that have made up the advance guard of Western civilisation in its movement
out of feudalism, the disintegrating effect of this matter-of-fact animus inculcated by the
later state of the industrial arts has apparently acted effectively, in some degree, to discredit
those preconceptions of personal discrimination on which dynastic rule is founded. But in no
case has the discipline of this mechanistic technology yet wrought its perfect work or come
to a definitive conclusion. Meantime war and politics have on the whole continued on the ancient
plane; it may perhaps be fair to say that politics has so continued because warlike enterprise
has continued still to be a matter of such personal forces as skill, dexterity and judgment,
valor and cunning, personal force and fraud. Latterly, gradually, but increasingly, the technology
of war, too, has been shifting to the mechanistic plane; until in the latest phases of it,
somewhere about the turn of the century, it is evident that the logic of warfare too has come
to be the same mechanistic logic that makes the modern state of the industrial arts.

What, if anything, is due by consequence to overtake the political strategy and the political
preconceptions of the new century, is a question that will obtrude itself, though with scant
hope of finding a ready answer. It may even seem a rash, as well as an ungraceful, undertaking
to inquire into the possible manner and degree of prospective decay to which the received political
ideals and virtues would appear to be exposed by consequence of this derangement of the ancient
discipline to which men have been subjected. So much, however, would seem evident, that the
received virtues and ideals of patriotic animosity and national jealousy can best be guarded
against untimely decay by resolutely holding to the formal observance of all outworn punctilios
of national integrity and discrimination, in spite of their increasing disserviceability,--as
would be done, e.g., or at least sought to be done, in the installation of a league of neutral
nations to keep the peace and at the same time to safeguard those "national interests" whose
only use is to divide these nations and keep them in a state of mutual envy and distrust.

       *       *       *       *       *

Those peoples who are subject to the constraining governance of this modern state of the industrial
arts, as all modern peoples are in much the same measure in which they are "modern," are, therefore,
exposed to a workday discipline running at cross purposes with the received law and order as
it takes effect in national affairs; and to this is to be added that, with warlike enterprise
also shifted to this same mechanistic-technological ground, war can no longer be counted on
so confidently as before to correct all the consequent drift away from the ancient landmarks
of dynastic, pseudo-dynastic, and national enterprise in dominion.

As has been noted above, modern warfare not only makes use of, and indeed depends on, the modern
industrial technology at every turn of the operations in the field, but it draws on the ordinary
industrial resources of the countries at war in a degree and with an urgency never equalled.
No nation can hope to make a stand in modern warfare, much less to make headway in warlike
enterprise, without the most thoroughgoing exploitation of the modern industrial arts. Which
signifies for the purpose in hand that any Power that harbors an imperial ambition must take
measures to let its underlying population acquire the ways and means of the modern machine
industry, without reservation; which in turn signifies that popular education must be taken
care of to such an extent as may be serviceable in this manner of industry and in the manner
of life which this industrial system necessarily imposes; which signifies, of course, that
only the thoroughly trained and thoroughly educated nations have a chance of holding their
place as formidable Powers in this latterday phase of civilisation. What is needed is the training
and education that go to make proficiency in the modern fashion of technology and in those
material sciences that conduce to technological proficiency of this modern order. It is a matter
of course that in these premises any appreciable illiteracy is an intolerable handicap. So
is also any training which discourages habitual self-reliance and initiative, or which acts
as a check on skepticism; for the skeptical frame of mind is a necessary part of the intellectual
equipment that makes for advance, invention and understanding in the field of technological
proficiency.

But these requirements, imperatively necessary as a condition of warlike success, are at cross
purposes with that unquestioning respect of persons and that spirit of abnegation that alone
can hold a people to the political institutions of the old order and make them a willing instrument
in the hands of the dynastic statesmen. The dynastic State is apparently caught in a dilemma.
The necessary preparation for warlike enterprise on the modern plan can apparently be counted
on, in the long run, to disintegrate the foundations of the dynastic State. But it is only
in the long run that this effect can be counted on; and it is perhaps not securely to be counted
on even in a moderately long run of things as they have run hitherto, if due precautions are
taken by the interested statesmen,--as would seem to be indicated by the successful conservation
of archaic traits in the German peoples during the past half century under the archaising rule
of the Hohenzollern. It is a matter of habituation, which takes time, and which can at the
same time be neutralised in some degree by indoctrination.

Still, when all is told, it will probably have to be conceded that, e.g., such a nation as
Russia will fall under this rule of inherent disability imposed by the necessary use of the
modern industrial arts. Without a fairly full and free command of these modern industrial methods
on the part of the Russian people, together with the virtual disappearance of illiteracy, and
with the facile and far-reaching system of communication which it all involves, the Russian
Imperial establishment would not be a formidable power or a serious menace to the pacific nations;
and it is not easy to imagine how the Imperial establishment could retain its hold and its
character under the conditions indicated.

The case of Japan, taken by itself, rests on somewhat similar lines as these others. In time,
and in this case the time-allowance should presumably not be anything very large, the Japanese
people are likely to get an adequate command of the modern technology; which would, here as
elsewhere, involve the virtual disappearance of the present high illiteracy, and the loss,
in some passable measure, of the current superstitiously crass nationalism of that people.
There are indications that something of that kind, and of quite disquieting dimensions, is
already under way; though with no indication that any consequent disintegrating habits of thought
have yet invaded the sacred close of Japanese patriotic devotion.

Again, it is a question of time and habituation. With time and habituation the emperor may
insensibly cease to be of divine pedigree, and the syndicate of statesmen who are doing business
under his signature may consequently find their measures of Imperial expansion questioned by
the people who pay the bills. But so long as the Imperial syndicate enjoy their present immunity
from outside obstruction, and can accordingly carry on an uninterrupted campaign of cumulative
predation in Korea, China and Manchuria, the patriotic infatuation is less likely to fall off,
and by so much the decay of Japanese loyalty will be retarded. Yet, even if allowed anything
that may seem at all probable in the way of a free hand for aggression against their hapless
neighbours, the skepticism and insubordination to personal rule that seems inseparable in the
long run from addiction to the modern industrial arts should be expected presently to overtake
the Japanese spirit of loyal servitude. And the opportunity of Imperial Japan lies in the interval.
So also does the menace of Imperial Japan as a presumptive disturber of the peace at large.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the cost of some unavoidable tedium, the argument as regards these and similar instances
may be summarised. It appears, in the (possibly doubtful) light of the history of democratic
institutions and of modern technology hitherto, as also from the logical character of this
technology and its underlying material sciences, that consistent addiction to the peculiar
habits of thought involved in its carrying on will presently induce a decay of those preconceptions
in which dynastic government and national ambitions have their ground. Continued addiction
to this modern scheme of industrial life should in time eventuate in a decay of militant nationalism,
with a consequent lapse of warlike enterprise. At the same time, popular proficiency in the
modern industrial arts, with all that that implies in the way of intelligence and information,
is indispensable as a means to any successful warlike enterprise on the modern plan. The menace
of warlike aggression from such dynastic States, e.g., as Imperial Germany and Imperial Japan
is due to their having acquired a competent use of this modern technology, while they have
not yet had time to lose that spirit of dynastic loyalty which they have carried over from
an archaic order of things, out of which they have emerged at a very appreciably later period
(last half of the nineteenth century) than those democratic peoples whose peace they now menace.
As has been said, they have taken over this modern state of the industrial arts without having
yet come in for the defects of its qualities. This modern technology, with its underlying material
sciences, is a novel factor in the history of human culture, in that addiction to its use conduces
to the decay of militant patriotism, at the same time that its employment so greatly enhances
the warlike efficiency of even a pacific people, at need, that they can not be seriously molested
by any other peoples, however valorous and numerous, who have not a competent use of this technology.
A peace at large among the civilised nations, by loss of the militant temper through addiction
to this manner of arts of peace, therefore, carries no risk of interruption by an inroad of
warlike barbarians,--always provided that those existing archaic peoples who might pass muster
as barbarians are brought into line with the pacific nations on a footing of peace and equality.
The disparity in point of outlook as between the resulting peace at large by neglect of bootless
animosities, on the one hand, and those historic instances of a peaceable civilisation that
have been overwhelmed by warlike barbarian invasions, on the other hand, should be evident.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is always possible, indeed it would scarcely be surprising to find, that the projected league
of neutrals or of nations bent on peace can not be brought to realisation at this juncture;
perhaps not for a long time yet. But it should at the same time seem reasonable to expect that
the drift toward a peaceable settlement of national discrepancies such as has been visible
in history for some appreciable time past will, in the absence of unforeseen hindrances, work
out to some such effect in the course of further experience under modern conditions. And whether
the projected peace compact at its inception takes one form or another, provided it succeeds
in its main purpose, the long-term drift of things under its rule should logically set toward
some ulterior settlement of the general character of what has here been spoken of as a peace
by neglect or by neutralisation of discrepancies.

It should do so, in the absence of unforeseen contingencies; more particularly if there were
no effectual factor of dissension included in the fabric of institutions within the nation.
But there should also, e.g., be no difficulty in assenting to the forecast that when and if
national peace and security are achieved and settled beyond recall, the discrepancy in fact
between those who own the country's wealth and those who do not is presently due to come to
an issue. Any attempt to forecast the form which this issue is to take, or the manner, incidents,
adjuncts and sequelae of its determination, would be a bolder and a more ambiguous, undertaking.
Hitherto attempts to bring this question to an issue have run aground on the real or fancied
jeopardy to paramount national interests. How, if at all, this issue might affect national
interests and international relations, would obviously depend in the first instance on the
state of the given national establishment and the character of the international engagements
entered into in the formation of this projected pacific league. It is always conceivable that
the transactions involving so ubiquitous an issue might come to take on an international character
and that they might touch the actual or fanciful interests of these diverse nations with such
divergent effect as to bring on a rupture of the common understanding between them and of the
peace-compact in which the common understanding is embodied.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the beginning, that is to say in the beginnings out of which this modern era of the Western
civilisation has arisen, with its scheme of law and custom, there grew into the scheme of law
and custom, by settled usage, a right of ownership and of contract in disposal of ownership,--which
may or may not have been a salutary institutional arrangement on the whole, under the circumstances
of the early days. With the later growth of handicraft and the petty trade in Western Europe
this right of ownership and contract came to be insisted on, standardised under legal specifications,
and secured against molestation by the governmental interests; more particularly and scrupulously
among those peoples that have taken the lead in working out that system of free or popular
institutions that marks the modern civilised nations. So it has come to be embodied in the
common law of the modern world as an inviolable natural right. It has all the prescriptive
force of legally authenticated immemorial custom.

Under the system of handicraft and petty trade this right of property and free contract served
the interest of the common man, at least in much of its incidence, and acted in its degree
to shelter industrious and economical persons from hardship and indignity at the hands of their
betters. There seems reason to believe, as is commonly believed, that so long as that relatively
direct and simple scheme of industry and trade lasted, the right of ownership and contract
was a salutary custom, in its bearing on the fortunes of the common man. It appears also, on
the whole, to have been favorable to the fuller development of the handicraft technology, as
well as to its eventual outgrowth into the new line of technological expedients and contrivances
that presently gave rise to the machine industry and the large-scale business enterprise.

The standard theories of economic science have assumed the rights of property and contract
as axiomatic premises and ultimate terms of analysis; and their theories are commonly drawn
in such a form as would fit the circumstances of the handicraft industry and the petty trade,
and such as can be extended to any other economic situation by shrewd interpretation. These
theories, as they run from Adam Smith down through the nineteenth century and later, appear
tenable, on the whole, when taken to apply to the economic situation of that earlier time,
in virtually all that they have to say on questions of wages, capital, savings, and the economy
and efficiency of management and production by the methods of private enterprise resting on
these rights of ownership and contract and governed by the pursuit of private gain. It is when
these standard theories are sought to be applied to the later situation, which has outgrown
the conditions of handicraft, that they appear nugatory or meretricious. The "competitive system"
which these standard theories assume as a necessary condition of their own validity, and about
which they are designed to form a defensive hedge, would, under those earlier conditions of
small-scale enterprise and personal contact, appear to have been both a passably valid assumption
as a premise and a passably expedient scheme of economic relations and traffic. At that period
of its life-history it can not be said consistently to have worked hardship to the common man;
rather the reverse. And the common man in that time appears to have had no misgivings about
the excellence of the scheme or of that article of Natural Rights that underlies it.

This complexion of things, as touches the effectual bearing of the institution of property
and the ancient customary rights of ownership, has changed substantially since the time of
Adam Smith. The "competitive system," which he looked to as the economic working-out of that
"simple and obvious system of natural liberty" that always engaged his best affections, has
in great measure ceased to operate as a routine of natural liberty, in fact; particularly in
so far as touches the fortunes of the common man, the impecunious mass of the people. De jure,
of course, the competitive system and its inviolable rights of ownership are a citadel of Natural
Liberty; but de facto the common man is now, and has for some time been, feeling the pinch
of it. It is law, and doubtless it is good law, grounded in immemorial usage and authenticated
with statute and precedent. But circumstances have so changed that this good old plan has in
a degree become archaic, perhaps unprofitable, or even mischievous, on the whole, and especially
as touches the conditions of life for the common man. At least, so the common man in these
modern democratic and commercial countries is beginning to apprehend the matter.

Some slight and summary characterisation of these changing circumstances that have affected
the incidence of the rights of property during modern times may, therefore, not be out of place;
with a view to seeing how far and why these rights may be due to come under advisement and
possible revision, in case a state of settled peace should leave men's attention free to turn
to these internal, as contrasted with national interests.

Under that order of handicraft and petty trade that led to the standardisation of these rights
of ownership in the accentuated form which belongs to them in modern law and custom, the common
man had a practicable chance of free initiative and self-direction in his choice and pursuit
of an occupation and a livelihood, in so far as rights of ownership bore on his case. At that
period the workman was the main factor in industry and, in the main and characteristically,
the question of his employment was a question of what he would do. The material equipment of
industry--the "plant," as it has come to be called--was subject of ownership, then as now;
but it was then a secondary factor and, notoriously, subsidiary to the immaterial equipment
of skill, dexterity and judgment embodied in the person of the craftsman. The body of information,
or general knowledge, requisite to a workmanlike proficiency as handicraftsman was sufficiently
slight and simple to fall within the ordinary reach of the working class, without special schooling;
and the material equipment necessary to the work, in the way of tools and appliances, was also
slight enough, ordinarily, to bring it within the reach of the common man. The stress fell
on the acquirement of that special personal skill, dexterity and judgment that would constitute
the workman a master of his craft. Given a reasonable measure of pertinacity, the common man
would be able to compass the material equipment needful to the pursuit of his craft, and so
could make his way to a livelihood; and the inviolable right of ownership would then serve
to secure him the product of his own industry, in provision for his own old-age and for a fair
start in behalf of his children. At least in the popular conception, and presumably in some
degree also in fact, the right of property so served as a guarantee of personal liberty and
a basis of equality. And so its apologists still look on the institution.

In a very appreciable degree this complexion of things and of popular conceptions has changed
since then; although, as would be expected, the change in popular conceptions has not kept
pace with the changing circumstances. In all the characteristic and controlling lines of industry
the modern machine technology calls for a very considerable material equipment; so large an
equipment, indeed, that this plant, as it is called, always represents a formidable amount
of invested wealth; and also so large that it will, typically, employ a considerable number
of workmen per unit of plant. On the transition to the machine technology the plant became
the unit of operation, instead of the workman, as had previously been the case; and with the
further development of this modern technology, during the past hundred and fifty years or so,
the unit of operation and control has increasingly come to be not the individual or isolated
plant but rather an articulated group of such plants working together as a balanced system
and keeping pace in common, under a collective business management; and coincidently the individual
workman has been falling into the position of an auxiliary factor, nearly into that of an article
of supply, to be charged up as an item of operating expenses. Under this later and current
system, discretion and initiative vest not in the workman but in the owners of the plant, if
anywhere. So that at this point the right of ownership has ceased to be, in fact, a guarantee
of personal liberty to the common man, and has come to be, or is coming to be, a guarantee
of dependence. All of which engenders a feeling of unrest and insecurity, such as to instill
a doubt in the mind of the common man as to the continued expediency of this arrangement and
of the prescriptive rights of property on which the arrangement rests.

There is also an insidious suggestion, carrying a sinister note of discredit, that comes in
from ethnological science at this point; which is adapted still further to derange the common
man's faith in this received institution of ownership and its control of the material equipment
of industry. To students interested in human culture it is a matter of course that this material
equipment is a means of utilising the state of the industrial arts; that it is useful in industry
and profitable to its owners only because and in so far as it is a creation of the current
technological knowledge and enables its owner to appropriate the usufruct of the current industrial
arts. It is likewise a matter of course that this technological knowledge, that so enables
the material equipment to serve the purposes of production and of private gain, is a free gift
of the community at large to the owners of industrial plant; and, under latterday conditions,
to them exclusively. The state of the industrial arts is a joint heritage of the community
at large, but where, as in the modern countries, the work to be done by this technology requires
a large material equipment, the usufruct of this joint heritage passes, in effect, into the
hands of the owners of this large material equipment.

These owners have, ordinarily, contributed nothing to the technology, the state of the industrial
arts, from which their control of the material equipment of industry enables them to derive
a gain. Indeed, no class or condition of men in the modern community--with the possible exception
of politicians and the clergy--can conceivably contribute less to the community's store of
technological knowledge than the large owners of invested wealth. By one of those singular
inversions due to production being managed for private gain, it happens that these investors
are not only not given to the increase and diffusion of technological knowledge, but they have
a well-advised interest in retarding or defeating improvements in the industrial arts in detail.
Improvements, innovations that heighten productive efficiency in the general line of production
in which a given investment is placed, are commonly to be counted on to bring "obsolescence
by supersession" to the plant already engaged in that line; and therefore to bring a decline
in its income-yielding capacity, and so in its capital or investment value.

Invested capital yields income because it enjoys the usufruct of the community's technological
knowledge; it has an effectual monopoly of this usufruct because this machine technology requires
large material appliances with which to do its work; the interest of the owners of established
industrial plant will not tolerate innovations designed to supersede these appliances. The
bearing of ownership on industry and on the fortunes of the common man is accordingly, in the
main, the bearing which it has by virtue of its monopoly control of the industrial arts, and
its consequent control of the conditions of employment and of the supply of vendible products.
It takes effect chiefly by inhibition and privation; stoppage of production in case it brings
no suitable profit to the investor, refusal of employment and of a livelihood to the workmen
in case their product does not command a profitable price in the market.

The expediency of so having the nation's industry managed on a footing of private ownership
in the pursuit of private gain, by persons who can show no equitable personal claim to even
the most modest livelihood, and whose habitual method of controlling industry is sabotage--refusal
to let production go on except it affords them an unearned income--the expediency of all this
is coming to be doubted by those who have to pay the cost of it. And it does not go far to
lessen their doubts to find that the cost which they pay is commonly turned to no more urgent
or useful purpose than a conspicuously wasteful consumption of superfluities by the captains
of sabotage and their domestic establishments.

This may not seem a veracious and adequate account of these matters; it may, in effect, fall
short of the formulation: The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth; nor does the
question here turn on its adequacy as a statement of fact. Without prejudice to the question
of its veracity and adequacy, it is believed to be such an account of these matters as will
increasingly come easy and seem convincing to the common man who, in an ever increasing degree,
finds himself pinched with privation and insecurity by a run of facts which will consistently
bear this construction, and who perforce sees these facts from the prejudiced standpoint of
a loser. To such a one, there is reason to believe, the view so outlined will seem all the
more convincing the more attentively the pertinent facts and their bearing on his fortunes
are considered. How far the contrary prejudice of those whose interest or training inclines
them the other way may lead them to a different construction of these pertinent facts, does
not concern the present argument; which has to do with this run of facts only as they bear
on the prospective frame of mind of that unblest mass of the population who will have opportunity
to present their proposals when peace at large shall have put national interests out of their
preferential place in men's regard.

At the risk of what may seem an excessively wide digression, there is something further to
be said of the capitalistic sabotage spoken of above. The word has by usage come to have an
altogether ungraceful air of disapproval. Yet it signifies nothing more vicious than a deliberate
obstruction or retardation of industry, usually by legitimate means, for the sake of some personal
or partisan advantage. This morally colorless meaning is all that is intended in its use here.
It is extremely common in all industry that is designed to supply merchantable goods for the
market. It is, in fact, the most ordinary and ubiquitous of all expedients in business enterprise
that has to do with supplying the market, being always present in the businessman's necessary
calculations; being not only a usual and convenient recourse but quite indispensable as an
habitual measure of business sagacity. So that no personal blame can attach to its employment
by any given businessman or business concern. It is only when measures of this nature are resorted
to by employees, to gain some end of their own, that such conduct becomes (technically) reprehensible.

Any businesslike management of industry is carried on for gain, which is to be got only on
condition of meeting the terms of the market. The price system under which industrial business
is carried on will not tolerate production in excess of the market demand, or without due regard
to the expenses of production as determined by the market on the side of the supplies required.
Hence any business concern must adjust its operations, by due acceleration, retardation or
stoppage, to the market conditions, with a view to what the traffic will bear; that is to say,
with a view to what will yield the largest obtainable net gain. So long as the price system
rules, that is to say so long as industry is managed on investment for a profit, there is no
escaping this necessity of adjusting the processes of industry to the requirements of a remunerative
price; and this adjustment can be taken care of only by well-advised acceleration or curtailment
of the processes of industry; which answers to the definition of sabotage. Wise business management,
and more particularly what is spoken of as safe and sane business management, therefore, reduces
itself in the main to a sagacious use of sabotage; that is to say a sagacious limitation of
productive processes to something less than the productive capacity of the means in hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

To anyone who is inclined to see these matters of usage in the light of their history and to
appraise them as phenomena of habituation, adaptation and supersession in the sequence of cultural
proliferation, there should be no difficulty in appreciating that this institution of ownership
that makes the core of the modern institutional structure is a precipitate of custom, like
any other item of use and wont; and that, like any other article of institutional furniture,
it is subject to the contingencies of supersession and obsolescence. If prevalent habits of
thought, enforced by the prevalent exigencies of life and livelihood, come to change in such
a way as to make life under the rule imposed by this institution seem irksome, or intolerable,
to the mass of the population; and if at the same time things turn in such a way as to leave
no other and more urgent interest or exigency to take precedence of this one and hinder its
being pushed to an issue; then it should reasonably follow that contention is due to arise
between the unblest mass on whose life it is a burden and the classes who live by it. But it
is, of course, impossible to state beforehand what will be the precise line of cleavage or
what form the division between the two parties in interest will take. Yet it is contained in
the premises that, barring unforeseen contingencies of a formidable magnitude, such a cleavage
is due to follow as a logical sequel of an enduring peace at large. And it is also well within
the possibilities of the case that this issue may work into an interruption or disruption of
the peace between the nations.

In this connection it may be called to mind that the existing governmental establishments in
these pacific nations are, in all cases, in the hands of the beneficiary, or kept classes,--beneficiaries
in the sense in which a distinction to that effect comes into the premises of the case at this
point. The responsible officials and their chief administrative officers,--so much as may at
all reasonably be called the "Government" or the "Administration,"--are quite invariably and
characteristically drawn from these beneficiary classes; nobles, gentlemen, or business men,
which all comes to the same thing for the purpose in hand; the point of it all being that the
common man does not come within these precincts and does not share in these counsels that assume
to guide the destiny of the nations.

Of course, sporadically and ephemerally, a man out of the impecunious and undistinguished mass
may now and again find his way within the gates; and more frequently will a professed "Man
of the People" sit in council. But that the rule holds unbroken and inviolable is sufficiently
evident in the fact that no community will let the emoluments of office for any of its responsible
officials, even for those of a very scant responsibility, fall to the level of the habitual
livelihood of the undistinguished populace, or indeed to fall below what is esteemed to be
a seemly income for a gentleman. Should such an impecunious one be thrown up into a place of
discretion in the government, he will forthwith cease to be a common man and will be inducted
into the rank of gentleman,--so far as that feat can be achieved by taking thought or by assigning
him an income adequate to a reputably expensive manner of life. So obvious is the antagonism
between a vulgar station in life and a position of official trust, that many a "selfmade man"
has advisedly taken recourse to governmental position, often at some appreciable cost, from
no apparent motive other than its known efficacy as a Levitical corrective for a humble origin.
And in point of fact, neither here nor there have the underbred majority hitherto learned to
trust one of their own kind with governmental discretion; which has never yet, in the popular
conviction, ceased to be a perquisite of the gently-bred and the well-to-do.

Let it be presumed that this state of things will continue without substantial alteration,
so far as regards the complexion of the governmental establishments of these pacific nations,
and with such allowance for overstatement in the above characterisation as may seem called
for. These governmental establishments are, by official position and by the character of their
personnel, committed more or less consistently to the maintenance of the existing law and order.
And should no substantial change overtake them as an effect of the war experience, the pacific
league under discussion would be entered into by and between governments of this complexion.
Should difficulties then arise between those who own and those who do not, in any one of these
countries, it would become a nice question whether the compact to maintain the peace and national
integrity of the several nations comprised in the league should be held to cover the case of
internal dissensions and possible disorders partaking of the character of revolt against the
established authorities or against the established provisions of law. A strike of the scope
and character of the one recently threatened, and narrowly averted, on the American railroads,
e.g., might easily give rise to disturbances sufficiently formidable to raise a question of
the peace league's jurisdiction; particularly if such a disturbance should arise in a less
orderly and less isolated country than the American republic; so as unavoidably to carry the
effects of the disturbance across the national frontiers along the lines of industrial and
commercial intercourse and correlation. It is always conceivable that a national government
standing on a somewhat conservative maintenance of the received law and order might feel itself
bound by its conception of the peace to make common cause with the keepers of established rights
in neighboring states, particularly if the similar interests of their own nation were thought
to be placed in jeopardy by the course of events.

Antecedently it seems highly probable that the received rights of ownership and disposal of
property, particularly of investment, will come up for advisement and revision so soon as a
settled state of peace is achieved. And there should seem to be little doubt but this revision
would go toward, or at least aim at the curtailment or abrogation of these rights; very much
after the fashion in which the analogous vested rights of feudalism and the dynastic monarchy
have been revised and in great part curtailed or abrogated in the advanced democratic countries.
Not much can confidently be said as to the details of such a prospective revision of legal
rights, but the analogy of that procedure by which these other vested rights have been reduced
to a manageable disability, suggests that the method in the present case also would be by way
of curtailment, abrogation and elimination. Here again, as in analogous movements of disuse
and disestablishment, there would doubtless be much conservative apprehension as to the procuring
of a competent substitute for the supplanted methods of doing what is no longer desirable to
be done; but here as elsewhere, in a like conjuncture, the practicable way out would presumably
be found to lie along the line of simple disuse and disallowance of class prerogative. Taken
at its face value, without unavoidable prejudice out of the past, this question of a substitute
to replace the current exploitation of the industrial arts for private gain by capitalistic
sabotage is not altogether above a suspicion of drollery.

Yet it is not to be overlooked that private enterprise on the basis of private ownership is
the familiar and accepted method of conducting industrial affairs, and that it has the sanction
of immemorial usage, in the eyes of the common man, and that it is reenforced with the urgency
of life and death in the apprehension of the kept classes. It should accordingly be a possible
outcome of such a peace as would put away international dissension, that the division of classes
would come on in a new form, between those who stand on their ancient rights of exploitation
and mastery, and those who are unwilling longer to submit. And it is quite within the possibilities
of the case that the division of opinion on these matters might presently shift back to the
old familiar ground of international hostilities; undertaken partly to put down civil disturbances
in given countries, partly by the more archaic, or conservative, peoples to safeguard the institutions
of the received law and order against inroads from the side of the iconoclastic ones.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the apprehension of those who are speaking for peace between the nations and planning for
its realisation, the outlook is that of a return to, or a continuance of, the state of things
before the great war came on, with peace and national security added, or with the danger of
war eliminated. Nothing appreciable in the way of consequent innovation, certainly nothing
of a serious character, is contemplated as being among the necessary consequences of such a
move into peace and security. National integrity and autonomy are to be preserved on the received
lines, and international division and discrimination is to be managed as before, and with the
accustomed incidents of punctilio and pecuniary equilibration. Internationally speaking, there
is to dawn an era of diplomacy without afterthought, whatever that might conceivably mean.

There is much in the present situation that speaks for such an arrangement, particularly as
an initial phase of the perpetual peace that is aimed at, whatever excursive variations might
befall presently, in the course of years. The war experience in the belligerent countries and
the alarm that has disturbed the neutral nations have visibly raised the pitch of patriotic
solidarity in all these countries; and patriotism greatly favors the conservation of established
use and wont; more particularly is it favorable to the established powers and policies of the
national government. The patriotic spirit is not a spirit of innovation. The chances of survival,
and indeed of stabilisation, for the accepted use and wont and for the traditional distinctions
of class and prescriptive rights, should therefore seem favorable, at any rate in the first
instance.

Presuming, therefore, as the spokesmen of such a peace-compact are singularly ready to presume,
that the era of peace and good-will which they have in view is to be of a piece with the most
tranquil decades of the recent past, only more of the same kind, it becomes a question of immediate
interest to the common man, as well as to all students of human culture, how the common man
is to fare under this régime of law and order,--the mass of the population whose place it is
to do what is to be done, and thereby to carry forward the civilisation of these pacific nations.
It may not be out of place to recall, by way of parenthesis, that it is here taken for granted
as a matter of course that all governmental establishments are necessarily conservative in
all their dealings with this heritage of culture, except so far as they may be reactionary.
Their office is the stabilisation of archaic institutions, the measure of archaism varying
from one to another.

With due stabilisation and with a sagacious administration of the established scheme of law
and order, the common man should find himself working under conditions and to results of the
familiar kind; but with the difference that, while legal usage and legal precedent remain unchanged,
the state of the industrial arts can confidently be expected to continue its advance in the
same general direction as before, while the population increases after the familiar fashion,
and the investing business community pursues its accustomed quest of competitive gain and competitive
spending in the familiar spirit and with cumulatively augmented means. Stabilisation of the
received law and order will not touch these matters; and for the present it is assumed that
these matters will not derange the received law and order. The assumption may seem a violent
one to the students of human culture, but it is a simple matter of course to the statesmen.

To this piping time of peace the nearest analogues in history would seem to be the Roman peace,
say, of the days of the Antonines, and passably the British peace of the Victorian era. Changes
in the scheme of law and order supervened in both of these instances, but the changes were,
after all, neither unconscionably large nor were they of a subversive nature. The scheme of
law and order, indeed, appears in neither instance to have changed so far as the altered circumstances
would seem to have called for. To the common man the Roman peace appears to have been a peace
by submission, not widely different from what the case of China has latterly brought to the
appreciation of students. The Victorian peace, which can be appreciated more in detail, was
of a more genial character, as regards the fortunes of the common man. It started from a reasonably
low level of hardship and de facto iniquity, and was occupied with many prudent endeavours
to improve the lot of the unblest majority; but it is to be admitted that these prudent endeavours
never caught up with the march of circumstances. Not that these prudent measures of amelioration
were nugatory, but it is clear that they were not an altogether effectual corrective of the
changes going on; they were, in effect, systematically so far in arrears as always to leave
an uncovered margin of discontent with current conditions. It is a fact of history that very
appreciable sections of the populace were approaching an attitude of revolt against what they
considered to be intolerable conditions when that era closed. Much of what kept them within
bounds, that is to say within legal bounds, was their continued loyalty to the nation; which
was greatly, and for the purpose needfully, reenforced by a lively fear of warlike aggression
from without. Now, under the projected pax orbis terrarum all fear of invasion, it is hopefully
believed, will be removed; and with the disappearance of this fear should also disappear the
drag of national loyalty on the counsels of the underbred.

If this British peace of the nineteenth century is to be taken as a significant indication
of what may be looked for under a régime of peace at large, with due allowance for what is
obviously necessary to be allowed for, then what is held in promise would appear to be an era
of unexampled commercial prosperity, of investment and business enterprise on a scale hitherto
not experienced. These developments will bring their necessary consequences affecting the life
of the community, and some of the consequences it should be possible to foresee. The circumstances
conditioning this prospective era of peace and prosperity will necessarily differ from the
corresponding circumstances that conditioned the Victorian peace, and many of these points
of difference it is also possible to forecast in outline with a fair degree of confidence.
It is in the main these economic factors going to condition the civilisation of the promised
future that will have to be depended on to give the cue to any student interested in the prospective
unfolding of events.

The scheme of law and order governing all modern nations, both in the conduct of their domestic
affairs and in their national policies, is in its controlling elements the scheme worked out
through British (and French) experience in the eighteenth century and earlier, as revised and
further accommodated in the nineteenth century. Other peoples, particularly the Dutch, have
of course had their part in the derivation and development of this modern scheme of institutional
principles, but it has after all been a minor part; so that the scheme at large would not differ
very materially, if indeed it should differ sensibly, from what it is, even if the contribution
of these others had not been had. The backward nations, as e.g., Germany, Russia, Spain, etc.,
have of course contributed substantially nothing but retardation and maladjustment to this
modern scheme of civil life; whatever may be due to students resident in those countries, in
the way of scholarly formulation. This nineteenth century scheme it is proposed to carry over
into the new era; and the responsible spokesmen of the projected new order appear to contemplate
no provision touching this scheme of law and order, beyond the keeping of it intact in all
substantial respects.

When and in so far as the projected peace at large takes effect, international interests will
necessarily fall somewhat into the background, as being no longer a matter of precarious equilibration,
with heavy penalties in the balance; and diplomacy will consequently become even more of a
make-believe than today--something after the fashion of a game of bluff played with irredeemable
"chips." Commercial, that is to say business, enterprise will consequently come in for a more
undivided attention and be carried on under conditions of greater security and of more comprehensive
trade relations. The population of the pacified world may be expected to go on increasing somewhat
as in the recent past; in which connection it is to be remarked that not more than one-half,
presumably something less than one-half, of the available agricultural resources have been
turned to account for the civilised world hitherto. The state of the industrial arts, including
means of transport and communication, may be expected to develop farther in the same general
direction as before, assuming always that peace conditions continue to hold. Popular intelligence,
as it is called,--more properly popular education,--may be expected to suffer a further advance;
necessarily so, since it is a necessary condition of any effectual advance in the industrial
arts,--every appreciable technological advance presumes, as a requisite to its working-out
in industry, an augmented state of information and of logical facility in the workmen under
whose hands it is to take effect.

Of the prescriptive rights carried over into the new era, under the received law and order,
the rights of ownership alone may be expected to have any material significance for the routine
of workday life; the other personal rights that once seemed urgent will for everyday purposes
have passed into a state of half-forgotten matter-of-course. As now, but in an accentuated
degree, the rights of ownership will, in effect, coincide and coalesce with the rights of investment
and business management. The market--that is to say the rule of the price-system in all matters
of production and livelihood--may be expected to gain in volume and inclusiveness; so that
virtually all matters of industry and livelihood will turn on questions of market price, even
beyond the degree in which that proposition holds today. The progressive extension and consolidation
of investments, corporate solidarity, and business management may be expected to go forward
on the accustomed lines, as illustrated by the course of things during the past few decades.
Market conditions should accordingly, in a progressively increased degree, fall under the legitimate
discretionary control of businessmen, or syndicates of businessmen, who have the disposal of
large blocks of invested wealth,--"big business," as it is called, should reasonably be expected
to grow bigger and to exercise an increasingly more unhampered control of market conditions,
including the money market and the labor market.

With such improvements in the industrial arts as may fairly be expected to come forward, and
with the possible enhancement of industrial efficiency which should follow from a larger scale
of organisation, a wider reach of transport and communication, and an increased population,--with
these increasing advantages on the side of productive industry, the per-capita product as well
as the total product should be increased in a notable degree, and the conditions of life should
possibly become notably easier and more attractive, or at least more conducive to efficiency
and personal comfort, for all concerned. Such would be the first and unguarded inference to
be drawn from the premises of the case as they offer themselves in the large; and something
of that kind is apparently what floats before the prophetic vision of the advocates of a league
of nations for the maintenance of peace at large. These premises, and the inferences so drawn
from them, may be further fortified and amplified in the same sense on considering that certain
very material economies also become practicable, and should take effect "in the absence of
disturbing causes," on the establishment of such a peace at large. It will of course occur
to all thoughtful persons that armaments must be reduced, perhaps to a minimum, and that the
cost of these things, in point of expenditures as well as of man-power spent in the service,
would consequently fall off in a corresponding measure. So also, as slight further reflection
will show, would the cost of the civil service presumably fall off very appreciably; more particularly
the cost of this service per unit of service rendered. Some such climax of felicities might
be looked for by hopeful persons, in the absence of disturbing causes.

Under the new dispensation the standard of living, that is to say the standard of expenditure,
would reasonably be expected to advance in a very appreciable degree, at least among the wealthy
and well-to-do; and by pressure of imitative necessity a like effect would doubtless also be
had among the undistinguished mass. It is not a question of the standard of living considered
as a matter of the subsistence minimum, or even a standard of habitually prevalent creature
comfort, particularly not among the wealthy and well-to-do. These latter classes have long
since left all question of material comfort behind in their accepted standards of living and
in the continued advance of these standards. For these classes who are often spoken of euphemistically
as being "in easy circumstances," it is altogether a question of a standard of reputable expenditure,
to be observed on pain of lost self-respect and of lost reputation at large. As has been remarked
in an earlier passage, wants of this kind are indefinitely extensible. So that some doubt may
well be entertained as to whether the higher productive efficiency spoken of will necessarily
make the way of life easier, in view of this need of a higher standard of expenditure, even
when due account is taken of the many economies which the new dispensation is expected to make
practicable.

One of the effects to be looked for would apparently be an increased pressure on the part of
aspiring men to get into some line of business enterprise; since it is only in business, as
contrasted with the industrial occupations, that anyone can hope to find the relatively large
income required for such an expensive manner of life as will bring any degree of content to
aspirants for pecuniary good repute. So it should follow that the number of businessmen and
business concerns would increase up to the limit of what the traffic could support, and that
the competition between these rival, and in a sense over-numerous, concerns would push the
costs of competition to the like limit. In this respect the situation would be of much the
same character as what it now is, with the difference that the limit of competitive expenditures
would be rather higher than at present, to answer to the greater available margin of product
that could be devoted to this use; and that the competing concerns would be somewhat more numerous,
or at least that the aggregate expenditure on competitive enterprise would be somewhat larger;
as, e.g., costs of advertising, salesmanship, strategic litigation, procuration of legislative
and municipal grants and connivance, and the like.

It is always conceivable, though it may scarcely seem probable, that these incidents of increased
pressure of competition in business traffic might eventually take up all the slack, and leave
no net margin of product over what is available under the less favorable conditions of industry
that prevail today; more particularly when this increased competition for business gains is
backed by an increased pressure of competitive spending for purposes of a reputable appearance.
All this applies in retail trade and in such lines of industry and public service as partakes
of the nature of retail trade, in the respect that salesmanship and the costs of salesmanship
enter into their case in an appreciable measure; this is an extensive field, it is true, and
incontinently growing more extensive with the later changes in the customary methods of marketing
products; but it is by no means anything like the whole domain of industrial business, and
by no means a field in which business is carried on without interference of a higher control
from outside its own immediate limits.

All this generously large and highly expensive and profitable field of trade and of trade-like
industry, in which the businessmen in charge deal somewhat directly with a large body of customers,
is always subject to limitations imposed by the condition of the market; and the condition
of the market is in part not under the control of these businessmen, but is also in part controlled
by large concerns in the background; which in their turn are after all also not precisely free
agents; in fact not much more so than their cousins in the retail trade, being confined in
all their motions by the constraint of the price-system that dominates the whole and gathers
them all in its impersonal and inexorable net.

There is a colloquial saying among businessmen, that they are not doing business for their
health; which being interpreted means that they are doing business for a price. It is out of
a discrepancy in price, between purchase and sale, or between transactions which come to the
same result as purchase and sale, that the gains of business are drawn; and it is in terms
of price that these gains are rated, amassed and funded. It is necessary, for a business concern
to achieve a favorable balance in terms of price; and the larger the balance in terms of price
the more successful the enterprise. Such a balance can not be achieved except by due regard
to the conditions of the market, to the effect that dealings must not go on beyond what will
yield a favorable balance in terms of price between income and outgo. As has already been remarked
above, the prescriptive and indispensable recourse in all this conduct of business is sabotage,
limitation of supply to bring a remunerative price result.

The new dispensation offers two new factors bearing on this businesslike need of a sagacious
sabotage, or rather it brings a change of coefficients in two factors already familiar in business
management: a greater need, for gainful business, of resorting to such limitation of traffic;
and a greater facility of ways and means for enforcing the needed restriction. So, it is confidently
to be expected that in the prospective piping time of peace the advance in the industrial arts
will continue at an accelerated rate; which may confidently be expected to affect the practicable
increased production of merchantable goods; from which it follows that it will act to depress
the prices of these goods; from which it follows that if a profitable business is to be done
in the conduct of productive industry a greater degree of continence than before will have
to be exercised in order not to let prices fall to an unprofitable figure; that is to say,
the permissible output must be held short of the productive capacity of such industry by a
wider margin than before. On the other hand, it is well known out of the experience of the
past few decades that a larger coalition of invested capital, controlling a larger proportion
of the output, can more effectually limit the supply to a salutary maximum, such as will afford
reasonable profits. And with the new dispensation affording a freer scope for business enterprise
on conditions of greater security, larger coalitions than before are due to come into bearing.
So that the means will be at hand competently to meet this more urgent need of a stricter limitation
of the output, in spite of any increased productive capacity conferred on the industrial community
by any conceivable advance in the industrial arts. The outcome to be looked for should apparently
be such an effectual recourse to capitalistic sabotage as will neutralise any added advantage
that might otherwise accrue to the community from its continued improvements in technology.

In spite of this singularly untoward conjuncture of circumstances to be looked for, there need
be no serious apprehension that capitalistic sabotage, with a view to maintaining prices and
the rate of profits, will go all the way, to the result indicated, at least not on the grounds
so indicated alone. There is in the modern development of technology, and confidently to be
counted on, a continued flow of new contrivances and expedients designed to supersede the old;
and these are in fact successful, in greater or less measure, in finding their way into profitable
use, on such terms as to displace older appliances, underbid them in the market, and render
them obsolete or subject to recapitalisation on a lowered earning-capacity. So far as this
unremitting flow of innovations has its effect, that is to say so far as it can not be hindered
from having an effect, it acts to lower the effectual cost of products to the consumer. This
effect is but a partial and somewhat uncertain one, but it is always to be counted in as a
persistent factor, of uncertain magnitude, that will affect the results in the long run.

As has just been spoken of above, large coalitions of invested wealth are more competent to
maintain, or if need be to advance, prices than smaller coalitions acting in severalty, or
even when acting in collusion. This state of the case has been well illustrated by the very
successful conduct of such large business organisations during the past few decades; successful,
that is, in earning large returns on the investments engaged. Under the new dispensation, as
has already been remarked, coalitions should reasonably be expected to grow to a larger size
and achieve a greater efficiency for the same purpose.

The large gains of the large corporate coalitions are commonly ascribed by their promoters,
and by sympathetic theoreticians of the ancient line, to economies of production made practicable
by a larger scale of production; an explanation which is disingenuous only so far as it needs
be. What is more visibly true on looking into the workings of these coalitions in detail is
that they are enabled to maintain prices at a profitable, indeed at a strikingly profitable,
level by such a control of the output as would be called sabotage if it were put in practice
by interested workmen with a view to maintain wages. The effects of this sagacious sabotage
become visible in the large earnings of these investments and the large gains which, now and
again, accrue to their managers. Large fortunes commonly are of this derivation.

In cases where no recapitalisation has been effected for a considerable series of years the
yearly earnings of such businesslike coalitions have been known to approach fifty percent on
the capitalised value. Commonly, however, when earnings rise to a striking figure, the business
will be recapitalised on the basis of its earning-capacity, by issue of a stock dividend, by
reincorporation in a new combination with an increased capitalisation, and the like. Such augmentation
of capital not unusually has been spoken of by theoretical writers and publicists as an increase
of the community's wealth, due to savings; an analysis of any given case is likely to show
that its increased capital value represents an increasingly profitable procedure for securing
a high price above cost, by stopping the available output short of the productive capacity
of the industries involved. Loosely speaking, and within the limits of what the traffic will
bear, the gains in such a case are proportioned to the deficiency by which the production or
supply under control falls short of productive capacity. So that the capitalisation in the
case comes to bear a rough proportion to the material loss which this organisation of sabotage
is enabled to inflict on the community at large; and instead of its being a capitalisation
of serviceable means of production it may, now and again, come to little else than a capitalisation
of chartered sabotage.

Under the new dispensation of peace and security at large this manner of capitalisation and
business enterprise might reasonably be expected to gain something in scope and security of
operation. Indeed, there are few things within the range of human interest on which an opinion
may more confidently be formed beforehand. If the rights of property, in their extent and amplitude,
are maintained intact as they are before the law today, the hold which business enterprise
on the large scale now has on the affairs and fortunes of the community at large is bound to
grow firmer and to be used more unreservedly for private advantage under the new conditions
contemplated.

The logical result should be an accelerated rate of accumulation of the country's wealth in
the hands of a relatively very small class of wealthy owners, with a relatively inconsiderable
semi-dependent middle class of the well-to-do, and with the mass of the population even more
nearly destitute than they are today. At the same time it is scarcely to be avoided that this
wholly dependent and impecunious mass of the population must be given an appreciably better
education than they have today. The argument will return to the difficulties that are liable
to arise out of this conjuncture of facts, in the way of discontent and possible disturbance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meantime, looking to the promise of the pacific future in the light of the pacific past, certain
further consequences, particularly consequences of the economic order, that may reasonably
be expected to follow will also merit attention. The experience of the Victorian peace is almost
as pointed in its suggestion on this head as if it had been an experiment made ad hoc; but
with the reservation that the scale of economic life, after all, was small in the Victorian
era, and its pace was slack, compared with what the twentieth century should have to offer
under suitable conditions of peace and pecuniary security. In the light of this most instructive
modern instance, there should appear to be in prospect a growth of well-bred families resting
on invested wealth and so living on unearned incomes; larger incomes and consequently a more
imposingly well-bred body of gentlefolk, sustained and vouched for by a more munificent expenditure
on superfluities, than the modern world has witnessed hitherto. Doubtless the resulting growth
of gentlemen and gentlewomen would be as perfect after their kind as these unexampled opportunities
of gentle breeding might be expected to engender; so that even their British precursors on
the trail of respectability would fall somewhat into insignificance by comparison, whether
in respect of gentlemanly qualities or in point of cost per unit.

