This vessel was captured under the North American flag, and had on board a North American register--there
is, therefore, no question as to the ship. There has been an attempt to cover the cargo, but
without success. The shippers are Francis Macdonald and Co., of the city of New York; and Mr.
James Hutchison, also of New York, deposed before the British consul, that "the goods specified
in the annexed bills of lading were shipped on board the schooner Crenshaw, for, and on account
of, subjects of Her Britannic Majesty, and that the said goods are wholly and bonâ fide the
property of British subjects." No British subject is named in the deposition, and no person
is therefore entitled to claim under it. Further: even admitting the goods to have been purchased
on British account, the shipper has not divested himself of the possession by a proper consignment,
under a proper bill of lading. The property is consigned to the order of the shipper, which
leaves it entirely under his control; and it having left the port of New York as his property,
the title cannot be changed while the property is in transitu.

As to the first point--to wit, the failure to point out some particular British owner of the
property--see 3d Phillimore 596, to the following effect:--"If in the ship's papers, property,
in a voyage from an enemy's port, be described 'for neutral account,' this is such a general
mode as points to no designation whatever; and under such a description no person can say that
the cargo belongs to him, or can entitle himself to the possession of it as his property," &c.

And as to the second point--to wit, the failure on the part of the shipper to divest himself
of the title and control of the property by a proper bill of lading--see 3rd Phillimore 610-12,
as follows, viz.: "In ordinary shipments of goods, unaffected by the foregoing principles,
the question of proprietary interest often turns on minute circumstances and distinctions,
the general principle being, that if they are going for account of the shipper, or subject
to his order or control, the property is not divested in transitu" &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

Monday, October 27th.--Another gale of wind! In the mid-watch last night the barometer commenced
falling, and by 3 this afternoon it had gone down to 29.33, where it remained stationary for
a time, and then began to rise slowly, being at 29.45 at 8 P.M. The wind began to blow freshly
from the south, and hauled gradually to the westward, the barometer commencing to rise when
the wind was about W.S.W. In the early part of the gale we had the weather very thick, with
heavy squalls of rain, clearing about nightfall, with the wind from the W.S.W.

In the midst of a heavy squall of wind and rain, and with a heavy sea on, we discovered a brig
close aboard of us, on our weather quarter; but as we were on opposite tacks we soon increased
our distance from each other. Wore ship, and hove to, under close-reefed topsails on the starboard
tack. Being about a degree to the southward of St. George's Bank, got a cast of the lead at
7 P.M., with no bottom at eighty-five fathoms. Lat. 39.47 N., Long. 68.06 W., a little over
two hundred miles from New York.

