Neither God, nor the human soul, nor the world are really what we consider them. Our thoughts
of these are only the endemic forms in which the planet we inhabit hands them to us. Our brain
belongs to this planet; accordingly, also, the idioms of our ideas, which are treasured up
in it. But the power of the soul is peculiar, necessary, and always consistent: the capricious
nature of the materials through which it finds expression changes nothing in the eternal laws,
as long as this capriciousness does not stand in contradiction with itself, and so long as
the sign remains true to the thing it designates. As the thinking power develops the relations
of the idioms, these relations of things must also really be present in them. Therefore, truth
is no property of the idioms, but of the conclusion; it is not the likeness of the sign with
the thing signified, of the conception with the object; but the agreement of this conception
with the laws of thought. In a similar manner, the doctrine of quantity makes use of cyphers
which are nowhere present, except upon paper, and yet it finds with them what is present in
the world of reality. For example, what resemblance is there between the letters A and B, the
signs : and =, +, and -, and the fact that has to be ascertained? Yet the comet, foretold centuries
before, advances from a remote corner of the heavens and the expected planet eclipses the disk
at the proper time. Trusting to the infallibility of his calculation, the discoverer Columbus
plunges into unknown regions of the sea to seek the missing other half of the known hemisphere--the
great island of Atlantis--to fill up a blank in his geographical map. He found this island
of his paper calculation, and his calculation was right. Would it have been less great if a
hostile storm had shattered his fleet or driven it back? The human mind makes a similar calculation
when it measures the super-sensual by means of the sensible, and when mathematics applies its
conclusions to the hidden physics of the superhuman. But the last test of its calculations
is still wanting, for no traveller has come back from that land to relate his discovery. Human
nature has its proper bounds, and so also has the individual. We will give each other mutual
comfort respecting the former: Raphael will concede this to the boyish age of his Julius. I
am poor in conceptions, a stranger in many branches of knowledge which are thought to be essential
in inquiries of this nature. I have not belonged to any philosophical school, nor have I read
many printed books. It may quite well be that I occasionally substitute my fancies in the place
of stricter logical proofs, that I mistake the rush of my blood or the hopes of my heart for
sound wisdom; yet, my dear friend, you must not grudge me the moments I have thus lost. It
is a real gain for universal perfection: it was the provision of the Wisest Spirit that the
erring reason should also people the chaotic world of dreams, and make fruitful even the barren
ground of contradiction. It is not only the mechanical artist who polishes the rough diamond
into a brilliant whom we ought to value, but also that one who ennobles mere ordinary stones
by giving them the apparent dignity of the diamond. The industry displayed in the forms may
sometimes make us forget the massive truth of the substance. Is not every exercise of the thinking
power, every sharpening of the edge of the spirit, a little step towards its perfection; and
every perfection has to obtain a being and substantial existence in a complete and perfect
world. Reality is not confined to the absolutely necessary; it also embraces the conditionally
necessary: every offspring of the brain, every work elaborated by the wit, has an irresistible
right of citizenship in this wider acceptation of creation. In the measureless plan of nature
no activity was to be left out, no degree of enjoyment was to be wanting in universal happiness.
The great Inventive Spirit would not even permit error to be wasted, nor allow this wide world
of thought to remain empty and chaotic in the mind of man. For the Great Ruler of His world
does not even allow a straw to fall without use, leaves no space uninhabited where life may
be enjoyed; for He converts the very poison of man into the food of vipers; He even raises
plants from the realm of corruption, and hospitably grants the little glimmer of pleasure that
can co-exist with madness. He turns crime and folly into excellence, and weaves out of the
very vices of a Tarquin the great idea of the universal monarchy of Rome. Every facility of
the reason, even in error, increases its readiness to accept truth.

Dear friend of my soul, suffer me to add my contribution to the great woof of human wisdom.
The image of the sun is reflected differently in the dewdrop and in the majestic mirror of
the wide-stretching ocean. Shame to the turbid, murky swamp, which never receives and never
reflects this image! Millions of plants drink from the four elements of nature; a magazine
of supplies is open for all: but they mix their sap in a thousand different ways, and return
it in a thousand new forms. The most beautiful variety proclaims a rich Lord of this house.
There are four elements from which all spirits draw their supplies: their Ego or individuality,
Nature, God, and the Future All intermingle in millions of ways and offer themselves in a million
differences of result: but one truth remains which, like a firm axis, goes through all religions
and systems--draw nigh to the Godhead of whom you think!

LETTER V.

Raphael to Julius.

It would be very unfortunate, my dear Julius, if there were no other way of quieting you than
by restoring the first-fruits of your belief in you. I found with delight these ideas, which
I saw gaining in you, written down in your papers. They are worthy of a soul like yours, but
you could not remain stationary in them. There are joys for every age and enjoyments for each
degree of spirits. It must have been a difficult thing for you to sever yourself from a system
that was entirely made to meet the wants of your heart. I would wager that no other system
will strike such deep roots in you, and, possibly, if left quite to your own direction, you
would sooner or later become reconciled to your favorite ideas. You would soon remark the weakness
of the opposite system, and then, if both systems appeared equally deficient in proof, you
would prefer the most desirable one, or, perhaps, you would find new arguments to preserve
at least the essential features of your former theory, even if a few more doubtful points had
to be given up.

But all this is remote from my plan. You must arrive at a higher freedom of mind, where you
no longer require support. I grant that this is not the affair of a moment. The first aim of
the earliest teaching is commonly the subjugation of the mind, and among all the artifices
of the art of education this generally succeeds the first. Even you, though endowed with great
elasticity of character, yet appear destined to submit readily to the sway of opinions, and
even more inclined to this than thousands; and this state of infancy might last very long with
you, as you do not readily feel the oppression of it. Your head and heart are in very close
connection. A doctrine is sweet to you on account of the teacher. You soon succeeded in finding
an interesting side in this doctrine, you ennobled it according to the wants of your heart,
and you suffered your mind to be resigned to other points that must needs appear strange to
you. You regarded attacks on this doctrine as boyish revenge taken by a slavish soul against
the rod of its tutor. You played with your chains, which you thought you carried by your own
free will.

I found you in this situation, and the sight gave me pain--how, in the midst of the enjoyment,
of your glowing life, and while giving expression to your noblest powers, you were hemmed in
by narrow considerations. The very logical consistency with which you acted according to your
convictions, and the strength of soul that made every sacrifice light to you, were twofold
hinderances to your activity and to your joys. I then resolved to set aside these clumsy efforts
by which it had been endeavored to cramp a soul like yours in the measure of ordinary natures.
The result of your first exertions favored my intentions. I admit that your imagination was
more actively employed upon the work than was your penetration. The loss of your fondest convictions
was more than atoned for by your presentiments, which gathered results much more rapidly than
the tortoise pace of cold scientific inquiry, passing from the known to the unknown. Your kind
of inspired system gave you your first enjoyment in this new field of activity, and I was very
careful not to destroy a welcome enthusiasm which was very favorable to the development of
your excellent disposition. The scene is now changed. A return into the restrictions of infancy
is closed forever. Your way leads onwards, and you require no further precautions.

You must not be surprised to find that a system such as yours cannot resist the searching of
a severe criticism. All essays of this kind, equal in breadth and boldness to yours, have had
no other fate. It was also most natural that your philosophical progress began with you individually,
as with the human race in general. The first object on which man's spirit of inquiry first
attempted its strength was, at all times, the universe. Hypotheses relating to the origin of
the world, and the combination of its parts, had occupied the greatest thinkers for ages, when
Socrates called down the philosophy of his day from heaven to earth. But the limits of human
wisdom were too narrow for the proud intellect of his followers. New systems arose on the ruins
of the former ones. The penetrating mind of subsequent ages explored the immeasurable field
of possible answers to those ever-recurring questions, bearing on the mysterious interior of
nature, which could not be disclosed by any human intellect. Some, indeed, succeeded in giving
a certain coloring of distinctness, completeness, and evidence to their views. There are many
conjuring tricks by which the pride of reason seeks to avoid the disgrace of not being able
to exceed the bounds of human nature in extending the circle of its knowledge. It is a frequent
conceit with men to believe that they have discovered new truths, when they have dissected
a conception into the separate elements out of which it was first compounded by an act of caprice.
Not unfrequently an imperceptible assumption lies at the basis of a chain of consequences,
whose breaks and deficiencies are cunningly concealed, while the false conclusions are admired
as sublime wisdom. In other cases, partial experiences are accumulated to found a hypothesis,
and all contradictory phenomena are either ignored, or the meaning of words is changed according
to the requirements of the reasoning. Nor is it only the philosophical quack who employs these
conjuring tricks to deceive the public; without being conscious of it, the most upright and
the least prejudiced thinker uses analogous means to satisfy his thirst for knowledge directly
that he issues from the only sphere where reason can legitimately enjoy the fruit of its activity.

After what you have heard me say on former occasions, Julius, these expressions must cause
you no little astonishment; yet they are not the product of a sceptical caprice. I could lay
before you the foundations on which they rest, but this would require, as prelude, a somewhat
dry examination into the nature of human knowledge,--and I prefer to reserve this for a time
when you will feel the want of it. You have not yet arrived at that state of mind when humiliating
truths on the limits of human knowledge can have any interest for you. Make a first essay with
the system which has supplanted your own in your mind. Examine it with the same impartiality
as severity. Proceed in the same manner with other theories with which you have recently become
acquainted; and if none of them can fully satisfy your requirements, you will ask yourself
if, after all, these requirements are reasonable.

Perhaps you will tell me this is a poor consolation. You will infer that resignation is your
only refuge after so many brilliant hopes had been raised. "Was it worth while," you will say,
"to challenge me to a full exercise of my reason in order to set bounds to it at the very moment
when it was beginning to bear the noblest fruit? Was I only to become acquainted with a higher
enjoyment in order to feel with a double keenness how painful it is to be thus bounded?"

Nevertheless, it is this very feeling of discouragement that I expressly wish to banish from
your soul. My aim is this: to remove all that places an obstacle to the free enjoyment of your
being, to bring to life in you the germ of all lofty inspiration--the consciousness of the
nobility of your soul. You have been awakened from the slumber in which you were rocked by
the slavery of others' opinions; but you would never reach the degree of grandeur to which
you are called if you dissipated your strength in the pursuit of an unattainable end. This
course was all proper up to the present time; it was the natural consequence of your recently
acquired freedom. It was necessary that the ideas which had most engaged you previously should
give the first impulse to the activity of your mind.. Among all possible directions that your
mind could take, is its present course the most fertile in results? The answer would be given,
sooner or later, by your own experience. My part was confined to hastening, if possible, this
crisis.

It is a common prejudice to take as a measure of the greatness of man that matter on which
he works, and not the manner of his work. But it is certain that a superior Being honors the
stamp of perfection even in the most limited sphere, whilst He casts an eye of pity on the
vain attempts of the insect which seeks to overlook the universe. It follows from this that
I am especially unwilling to agree to the proposition in your papers, which assumes that the
high destiny of man is to detect the spirit of the Divine Artist in the work of creation. To
express the activity of infinite perfection, I admit that I do not know any sublimer image
than art; but you appear to have overlooked an important distinction. The universe is not the
pure expression of an ideal, like the accomplished work of a human artist. The latter governs
despotically the inanimate matter which he uses to give a body to his ideas. But in the divine
work the proper value of each one of its parts is respected, and this conservative respect
with which the Great Architect honors every germ of activity, even in the lowliest creature,
glorifies it as much as the harmony of the immeasurable whole. Life and liberty to all possible
extent are the seal of divine creation; nowhere is it more sublime than where it seems to have
departed most widely from its ideal. But it is precisely this highest perfection that prevents
us from grasping the limits in which we are at present confined. We embrace only too small
a part of the universe, and the explanation of most of its discords is inaccessible to our
faculties. Each step we climb in the scale of being will make us more susceptible of these
enjoyments of art; but even then their only value will be that of means, and to excite us to
an analogous exercise of our activity. The idle admiration of a greatness foreign to ourselves
can never be a great merit. A superior man is never wanting in matter for his activity, nor
in the forces necessary to become himself a creator in his sphere. This vocation is yours also,
Julius; when you have recognized this you will never have a thought of complaining of the limits
that your desire of knowledge cannot overstep.

When you have arrived at this conviction I expect to find you wholly reconciled to me. You
must first know fully the extent of your strength before you can appreciate the value of its
freest manifestation. Till then, continue to be dissatisfied with me, but do not despair of
yourself.

ON THE CONNECTION BETWEEN THE ANIMAL AND THE SPIRITUAL NATURE IN MAN.

"It behooves us to clearly realize, as the broad facts which have most wide-reaching consequences
in mental physiology and pathology, that all parts of the body, the highest and the lowest,
have a sympathy with one another more intelligent than conscious intelligence can yet, or perhaps
ever will, conceive; that there is not an organic motion, visible or invisible, sensible or
insensible, ministrant to the noblest or to the most humble purposes, which does not work its
appointed effect in the complex recesses of the mind, and that the mind, as the crowning achievement
of organization, and the consummation and outcome of all its energies, really comprehends the
bodily life."--MAWDESLEY, Body and Mind.

"It is an indisputable truth that what we call the material world is only known to us under
the forms of the ideal world, and, as Descartes tells us, our knowledge of the soul is more
intimate and certain than our knowledge of the body."--HUXLEY.

INTRODUCTION.

S 1.

Many philosophers have asserted that the body is, as it were, the prison-house of the spirit,
holding it only too firmly to what is earthly, and checking its so-called flight towards perfection.
On the other hand, it has been held by another philosophic school that knowledge and virtue
are not so much an end as a means towards happiness, and that the whole perfection of man culminates
in the amelioration of his body.

Both opinions [1], methinks, are one-sided. The latter system has almost entirely disappeared
from our schemes of ethics and philosophy, and is, I am inclined to think, not seldom cast
out with over-fanatical zeal--(nothing assuredly is so dangerous to truth as when one-sided
opinions meet with one-sided opponents). The former system has on the whole been more patiently
endured, since it has the greatest capacity for warming the heart towards virtue, and has already
justified its value in the case of truly great souls. Who is there that does not admire the
strength of mind of a Cato, the lofty virtue of a Brutus and Aurelius, the equanimity of an
Epictetus and a Seneca? But, in spite of all this, the system in question is nothing more than
a beautiful aberration of the understanding, a real extreme, which in its wild enthusiasm underrates
one part of our human nature, and desires to raise us into the order of ideal beings without
at the same time relieving us of our humanity,--a system which runs directly contrary to all
that we historically know or philosophically can explain either of the evolution of the single
man or of that of the entirer race, and can in no way be reconciled with the limitations of
our human soul. It is therefore here, as ever, the wisest plan to hold the balance between
the two opinions, and thus reach with greater certainty the middle line of truth. But, inasmuch
as a mistake has very often been committed by treating the mental powers in an exclusive way,
that is, in so far as they can be considered in independence of the body, and through an intentional
subordination of this same body, the aim of this present essay will be to bring into a clearer
light the remarkable contributions made by the body to the workings of the soul, and the great
and real influence of the animal system of sensations upon the spiritual. But this is as like
the philosophy of Epicurus as the holding of virtue to be the summum bonum is stoicism.

Before we seek to discover those higher moral ends which the animal nature assists us in attaining
to, we must establish their physical necessity, and come to an agreement as to some fundamental
conceptions.

[1] Huxley, speaking of psychology and physiology (idealism and materialism), says: "Our stem
divides into two main branches, which grow in opposite ways, and bear flowers which look as
different as they can well be. But each branch is sound and healthy, and has as much life and
vigor as the other. If a botanist found this state of things in a new plant, I imagine he might
be inclined to think that his tree was monoecious, that the flowers were of different sexes,
and that, so far from setting up a barrier between the branches of the tree, the only hope
of fertility lay in bringing them together. This is my notion of what is to be done with physics
and metaphysics. Their differences are complementary, not antagonistic, and thought will never
be completely fruitful until the one unites with the other."--HUXLEY, Macmillan's Mag., May 1870.

Descartes' method (according to Huxley) leads straight up to the critical idealism of his great
successor, Kant, in declaring that the ultimate fact of all knowledge is a consciousness and
therefore affirming that the highest of all certainties, and indeed the only absolute certainty,
is the existence of mind. But it stops short of Berkeley in declaring that matter does not
exist: his arguments against its existence would equally tend to prove the non-existence of
soul. In Descartes' stem, the body is simply a machine, in the midst of which the rational
soul (peculiar to man) is lodged, and which it directs at its will, as a skilful engineer familiar
with its working might do--through will and through affection he can "increase, slacken, and
alter their movements at his pleasure." At the same time, he admits, in all that regards its
mere animal life--in active functions, such as those connected with hunger, respiration, sleep,
digestion; in many passive ones, such as we are accustomed to call mental, as in memory, the
perception of color, sound--a purely automatic action of the body, which it pursues simply
by following out its own laws, independent of the soul's direction or interference.

PHYSICAL CONNECTION.

THE ANIMAL NATURE STRENGTHENS THE ACTION OF THE SPIRIT.

S 2.--Organism of the Operations of the Soul--of its Maintenance and Support--of Generation.

