He gathered himself together at last, set the gun over the fence, and climbing after it, caught
Nancy, who had feasted to plethora on young corn.  He fastened up the trace-chains, and climbing
to her back, laid the gun across his lap and rode to the barn.  He attended the mare with particular
solicitude, and bathed his face and hands in the water trough to make himself a little more
presentable to Maria.  He started to the house, but had only gone a short way when he stopped,
and after standing in thought for a time, turned back to the barn and gave Nancy another ear
of corn.

"After all, it was all you, ol' girl," he said, patting her shoulder, "I never on earth could
a-made it on time afoot."

He was so tired he leaned for support against her, for the unusual exertion and intense excitement
were telling on him sorely, and as he rested he confided to her: "I don't know as I ever in
my life was so riled, Nancy.  I'm afraid I was a little mite fierce."

He exhibited the gun, and told the story very soberly at supper time; and Maria was so filled
with solicitude for him and the bird, and so indignant at the act of the hunter, that she never
said a word about Abram's torn clothing and the hours of patching that would ensue.  She sat
looking at the gun and thinking intently for a long time; and then she said pityingly:

"I don't know jest what you could a-said 'at 'ud make a man go off an' leave a gun like that.
Poor fellow!  I do hope, Abram, you didn't come down on him too awful strong.  Maybe he lost
his mother when he was jest a little tyke, an' he hasn't had much teachin'."

Abram was completely worn out, and went early to bed.  Far in the night Maria felt him fumbling
around her face in an effort to learn if she were covered; and as he drew the sheet over her
shoulder he muttered in worn and sleepy tones: "I'm afraid they's no use denyin' it, Maria,
I WAS JEST MORTAL FIERCE."

In the sumac the frightened little mother cardinal was pressing her precious babies close against
her breast; and all through the night she kept calling to her mate, "Chook! Chook!" and was
satisfied only when an answering "Chip!" came.  As for the Cardinal, he had learned a new lesson.
He had not been under fire before.  Never again would he trust any one carrying a shining thing
that belched fire and smoke.  He had seen the hunter coming, and had raced home to defend his
mate and babies, thus making a brilliant mark of himself; and as he would not have deserted
them, only the arrival of the farmer had averted a tragedy in the sumac.  He did not learn
to use caution for himself; but after that, if a gun came down the shining river, he sent a
warning "Chip!" to his mate, telling her to crouch low in her nest and keep very quiet, and
then, in broken waves of flight, and with chirp and flutter, he exposed himself until he had
lured danger from his beloved ones.

When the babies grew large enough for their mother to leave them a short time, she assisted
in food hunting, and the Cardinal was not so busy.  He then could find time frequently to mount
to the top of the dogwood, and cry to the world, "See here! See here!" for the cardinal babies
were splendid.  But his music was broken intermittent vocalizing now, often uttered past a
beakful of food, and interspersed with spasmodic "chips" if danger threatened his mate and
nestlings.

