"You're wrong there," he said.  "My mother's got a chany jug what used to belong to her grandfather,
and he lived in Lunnon."  Observing a twinkle in the corner of Barney's eye he continued in
an injured tone:

"You've bin lyin'.  Lies is wicked, and stealin's wicked too."

There was a sound of conscious superiority in his tone, which was naturally irritating to his
companion, who laughed hoarsely.

"Jest listen to him," he said, addressing Lord Beaconsfield for want of a more intelligent
audience, "listen to him!  Don't he preach fine?  An' him a boy without a carikter too!  Lies
is wicked, eh?  And stealin's wicked.  Who told him that, I wonder?"

"It's in the catekizum," continued Frank.  "Parson allers said so, and Schoolmaster too."

Barney made a gesture expressive of much contempt at the mention of these two dignitaries.

"Parson and Schoolmaster!" he said derisively.  "Why, in course they said so; they're paid
to do it.  That's how they earns their money.  But jest you please to remember, that yer not
Parson, not yit Schoolmaster, but a boy without a carikter, so shut up with yer preachin'."

Without a character!  It was hard, Frank thought, that he, a respectable Danecross boy, who
had been to school, and sung in the choir, and whose folks had always worked honest and got
good wages, should have come to this!  That a vagrant tramp, who could neither read nor write,
and who got his living anyhow, should be able to call him "a boy without a carikter!"

And the worst of it was, that it was true, he sadly thought, as he plodded along in the dust
by Barney's side.  He had thrown away his right to be considered respectable--no one would
employ him if they knew he had run away, and still less if they knew he had been "on the tramp"
with a boy like Barney.

However, as time went on, such serious thoughts troubled him less frequently; as long as the
sun shone, it was easy to avoid dwelling on them amidst the change and uncertainty of his vagrant
life.

But there were not two days alike in it.  Sometimes luck, plenty to eat, and a bed of dry straw
in a barn--that was luxury.  Sometimes a weary tramp in the pouring rain, no coppers and no
supper.  Under these last circumstances the "Nipper" was sharply reminded of the time when
he was Frank Darvell, and lived at Green Highlands; shivering and hungry, his thoughts would
dwell regretfully on the comfort and security he had left.  Mother's face would come before
him sad and reproachful.  Poor mother!  She would never have that shawl with the apple-green
border now.  Her Frank, instead of making a great fortune in London town, had become a wanderer
and a tramp; and indeed after a month's companionship with Barney he was so altered that she
would hardly have known him. Sleeping under hedges or in outhouses had not improved his clothes,
which were now stained and torn.  His pale face was changed by wind and weather, and also by
a plentiful supply of dust, seldom washed off, into a dirty brown one, and his hair, once kept
so neatly cropped, now hung about in bushy tangles like Barney's.  Only his bright blue eyes,
with their innocent childishness of expression, were recognisable, and these gained him many
a copper when he carried round his cap after Barney's feeble performances with the white mice.

But though changed outwardly, there was one good habit which Frank had brought away from Green
Highlands, and to which he clung with a persistency which surprised and irritated his partner.
This was honesty.  Nothing would induce him to steal, or even to share stolen booty; hunger,
threats, bitterly sarcastic speeches were alike in vain, and at last Barney's scornful amusement
at the "boy without a carikter" began to be mingled with a certain respect; not that he was
the least inclined to follow his example and give up pilfering himself, but he thought it was
"game" of the little 'un to hold his own, and that was a quality he could understand and admire.
After all, a chap that had been brought up by parsons and schoolmasters must have allowances
made for him, he supposed, and he soon gave up all idea of inducing Frank to thieve, and even
kept his own exploits in the background, because the "Nipper" took it to heart.

So, sharing sometimes hardships, and sometimes pleasures, the oddly-matched partners journeyed
on, with an increasing attachment to each other, and Frank's thoughts travelled back less and
less often to Green Highlands.

For now the bright warm weather had set fairly in, and all the different flowers came marching
on in sweet procession, and filled the woods and fields.  After the primroses, and while some
still remained sprinkled about in the sunny places, came the deep blue hyacinths, and then
the golden kingcups, and the downy yellow cowslips: last of all, a tall triumphant host of
foxgloves spread themselves over forest and common. The wind, blowing softly from the west,
brought with it little gentle showers, just enough to freshen the leaves and wash the upturned
faces of the blossoms; tramping was a luxury in such weather, and those people much to be pitied
who had to work in close dark rooms, hidden away from the glorious sunshine.

Certainly it was rather too hot sometimes, and the roads were dusty and gritty, and the boys'
throats got parched with thirst after a very few miles; but there was always the hope of coming
to some delicious, cool green bit by the way, or to a stream of water, or to some comfortable
village seat under the shadow of a great tree.  And this kept up their spirits.  One day they
had walked far in a blazing July sun along an unshaded high-road; it was evening now, and they
were wondering where they should sleep, and how they should get some supper, when they came
to a narrow lane turning off to the right, with steep banks on each side of it.  There was
a sign-post, which, interpreted by Frank, said, To Crowhurst--one mile.

The boys consulted a little, and soon determined to leave the high-road, which seemed endless,
as far as they could see, and try their fortune in Crowhurst for the night.  It was not long
before they came to it, lying in a hollow, and snugly sheltered by gently rising wooded ground.
It was a very little village indeed.  There was a small grey church with a stumpy square tower,
and a cheerful red-brick inn called the Holly Bush, with a swinging sign in front of it; there
were half a dozen little cottages with gay gardens, and, standing close to the road, there
was a long, low, many-gabled house which was evidently the vicarage.  It was such a snug, smiling
little settlement altogether that Barney and Frank, slouching along dusty and tired, felt quite
out of place and uneasy at the glances cast at them by the people standing at their open doors
or in their trim gardens.  However, there was a bench outside the inn, and there they presently
sat down to rest and look about them.  The vicarage was just opposite; and one of its wide
lattice-windows being open, the boys could see plainly into the room, where the most prominent
object was the figure of an old gentleman, with grey hair and a velvet skull-cap; he sat at
a table writing busily, and everything was so quiet and still that they could even hear the
scratch of his quill pen, and the rustle of the sheets of manuscript which he threw from time
to time on the floor.  Sometimes he looked vaguely out of the window, and sometimes he took
off his skull-cap and rubbed his bald head with his pocket handkerchief--then he bent busily
over his writing again.  Frank, watching him lazily, wondered what he could have to write so
much about, and then it occurred to him that perhaps he might be the schoolmaster correcting
the boys' exercises; from that, his mind wandered back to Danecross and the school-room there,
where it used to be so hot in summer, and the bees buzzed and murmured so in the garden outside,
and the boys within.  And gradually, his ideas becoming confused between bees and boys, and
being very tired, he forgot the old gentleman and fell asleep.

But, meanwhile, the acute Barney, sitting by his side and apparently engrossed with his white
mice, had been attentively observing the same scene.  Unfortunately, whenever the old gentleman
dipped his pen absently in the ink Barney's quick eye was attracted to a small object which
glittered brightly, and presently he made out that this was a silver inkstand.  The more he
looked, the more his fingers longed to close round that shining object and make sure if it
really could be silver, and I grieve to say that it was not from pressing necessity that he
coveted it, but simply from a strong desire to exercise an inborn talent.  It was as natural
to him to steal, particularly if it required cleverness and ingenuity, as it is for an artist
or a poet to paint or write poetry, so all the while he looked, his mind was busy with a plan
to rob the old gentleman of his silver inkstand.

Presently he glanced round at Frank, whose head was nodding forward in an uncomfortable attitude,
and whose deep breathing showed him to be asleep.  "If only he warn't sich a duffer," said
Barney to himself, "we might do it easy," then seeing that his partner was in danger of falling,
he moved nearer to him, and placed the boy's head gently against his own shoulder so that he
might rest easily.  Meanwhile the old gentleman's pen went scribbling on at quite a furious
pace, and the black skull-cap seemed to nod complacently, as though its owner were pleased
with what he wrote.

Barney sat and waited with the sleeping boy's head on his shoulder-- waited patiently, without
stirring a muscle, though after a time the stiff position became painful.  Shadows were lengthening--the
cows sauntered through the village to be milked--it began to get a little dusk, but still the
old gentleman went on writing and Frank went on sleeping, and Barney's bright glance was fixed
on the shining object opposite, much as a raven or a jackdaw will eye the silver spoon he means
to steal by and by.  "Everything comes to him who knows how to wait," and though Barney had
never heard the proverb it was now verified in his case; the old gentleman paused in his writing,
stuck his pen absently behind his ear, and proceeded to read over his manuscript.  It pleased
him evidently, for he smiled several times, and shook his head waggishly.  Then he got up,
yawned, stretched himself, and finally left the room, but only to reappear a moment later in
the porch: thence he strolled down the narrow brick path to the gate, with his hands in the
pockets of his flowered dressing-gown, and looked up and down the road, and up at the sky,
and finally at the two dusty figures opposite on the bench.  It was on Frank that his gaze
rested, and just then, aided by a quiet poke from Barney's elbow, the boy roused himself, sat
up, and rubbed his eyes.

"Jintleman wants yer," said Barney, whispering hoarsely in his ear.

Hardly awake, Frank stumbled across the road, and mechanically touched his cap.  The old gentleman
stood beaming benignly at him through his spectacles.

"What do you want, my lad?" he said in a kind voice.

Directly Frank heard him speak he knew he could not be the schoolmaster, but the parson of
the village.  Parson at Danecross used to speak in the same sort of way.  He felt ashamed to
beg, and looked back at Barney for support, who immediately came slouching up with his white
mice, and began to speak in his usual professional whine.

The old gentleman waved his hand impatiently.

"Stop," he said; "I don't want to hear any of those stories.  You can't impose upon me, so
you needn't try."  Then he turned to Frank.  "Are you willing to work for your supper and a
bed in the hay-loft to-night?"

"Oh yes, sir," said Frank eagerly; "and so's Barney too."

The rector, for such he was, glanced somewhat doubtfully at Barney.

"Well," he said, "there's an hour's weeding in my kitchen-garden that you can easily do before
dark, and then you shall have bread and cheese, and may sleep in the loft.  Where have you
come from?"

He spoke to Frank, but the boy did not answer; and Barney, coming glibly to the rescue, had
in a few moments woven an ingenious fable, in which he frequently referred to his companion
as "his little brother."

The rector listened without further question, but his shrewd grey eyes rested suspiciously
on Barney when he had finished his story.

"Come this way," he said, and led them round to the back of the house, where there was a neatly
kept kitchen-garden, with borders of homely flowers, and a small orchard at the end of it.
Here he paused, and showed the boys that one of the gravel walks was thickly covered with grass
weeds.  A man leant on the orchard gate smoking a pipe.

"Andrew," said the rector, "when those two boys have weeded that path they are to have supper
and a bed in the loft."

The man touched his cap with a very ill-pleased expression, and the old gentleman strolled
back into the house and left the boys to their work, which they undertook with very different
feelings.  On Barney's side there was a distinct sense of injury, and he performed his task
with great bitterness of soul; for to work for anything was contrary to his inmost nature,
and to every principle of his life hitherto.  So he sighed and groaned and held on to his long
back with both hands at intervals, and managed to do as small a share of the weeding as possible.
Frank, on the contrary, went to work with a will, with a pleasant sense that he was earning
something, and he was careful to get the weeds up by the roots, instead of slicing them off
neatly at the top, which was Barney's unprincipled method of gardening.  Meanwhile Andrew's
watchful eye never left the boys; and in answer to his master's inquiries that night his opinion
of them was thus delivered:

"Long un's no good, but t'other's bin taught to use his hands.  He's no tramp."

Frank lay awake long that night in the fragrant hay-loft thinking.  The kind old rector, the
work, the supper, had roused old memories in his mind, and his tramping life of late seemed
suddenly distasteful.  He longed to "work honest and get wage," and feel a respectable boy
again. If only this nice old gentleman would let him stay and work in his garden; but that,
Frank remembered with a sigh, was hopeless, because he had "no carikter."  And then, there
was Barney--Barney, who had always been good to him, and who had helped him when he most wanted
it, he could not desert him now; and as for trying to turn him from his present course of life,
that was just the most hopeless thing of all.  So, rather sorrowfully, he turned over on the
other side, and very shortly fell fast asleep.

Barney slept too with the profound peacefulness of a mind at rest, as, indeed, it was; for
with the morning's light he had firmly resolved to steal the old gentleman's silver inkstand,
and he was troubled with no doubts either as to the propriety or success of the undertaking.
The fastening of that lattice-window would be easily managed by a dexterous hand, and before
any of the folks were about he and Frank would be beyond pursuit; only he must be careful not
to wake the Nipper before he had secured his booty, as he might make foolish and troublesome
objections.

So it came to pass that it was only just daylight next morning when Frank was waked from a
deep sleep by some one shaking his arm, and by the dim grey light he saw Barney kneeling by
him with an eager look in his dark face.

"Get up!" he whispered.

"'Tain't time," murmured Frank, rolling over sleepily.

But Barney renewed his shaking, and at last succeeded in thoroughly rousing his comrade, who
sat up and stared at him with surprised blue eyes.

"Why, Barney," he said, "it's night still.  What do yer want to go on fur?  The old gentleman
ull want to see us afore we start; we mustn't go yet."

Barney frowned darkly.

"I niver want to see that old cove, niver no more," he said; and this was truer than Frank
thought.  "I calls it a mean act to make a poor chap work for a bit o' supper.  He's no jintleman,
he isn't."

"Well," said Frank, "I should like to a said `Thank yer;' it seems ongrateful."

"Then you'd better stop and do it," said Barney impatiently.  "I'm off. I'm not goin' to stay
an work in that blessed old garding any more.  You can come arter me."

He was already half-way down the loft steps as he spoke, with his mice's cage under his arm,
when he looked back over his shoulder at his partner's slight figure standing at the top in
the dim light watching him.  Turning suddenly, he was by Frank's side again in two long-legged
strides.

"Good-bye, Nipper," he whispered, "good-bye, old pal!"

He patted the boy on the shoulder gently, and soon with stealthy swiftness passed from sight,
and seemed to vanish in the grey morning mist.

Then Frank, wondering a little, but more sleepy than curious, crept back to his still warm
nest in the hay, and fell asleep again without loss of time.

He dreamt that Barney had come back to fetch him, and opened his eyes some hours later expecting
to see him; but he was not there.  Instead of him there was Andrew the gardener just coming
up the steps in a great hurry.

He seized Frank roughly by the arm.

"Oh, you're here, are you, young scamp?" he said.  Then looking round the loft.

"Where's t'other?"

"He's gone on before," answered Frank, surprised and confused at this treatment.

"Oh, I daresay," said Andrew, giving him a shake.  "And I suppose you don't even know what
he's got in his pocket.  You're a nice young innercent.  You jest come along with me."

He hurried the boy along, holding him tight by the collar of his smock, and thrust him into
the room with the lattice-window, where the rector had been writing the night before.  He was
there now, walking feverishly backwards and forwards, and looking thoroughly ill at ease.

"Here's one on 'em, sir," said Andrew triumphantly introducing the small trembling form of
Frank, "an' t'other's not far off, I reckon."

The rector looked more than ever perturbed.

"Where was the boy, Andrew?" he asked.  "Does he know anything of the matter?"

"He was in the loft, and he's just the most owdacious young rascal; says t'other one's gone
on before.  He'll know more about it, I fancy, after a day or two in the lock-up."

Andrew administered a rousing shake to his captive as he spoke.  He was not ill-pleased that
the rector should at last see the result of encouraging tramps.

Hitherto Frank had been in a state of puzzled misery, and had scarcely understood what was
going on; but when Andrew mentioned the word lock-up, the whole matter was clear to him.  Barney
had stolen something; that was the meaning of his abrupt departure before daylight.

The rector looked at him pityingly.

"Where is your companion, my boy?" he said.

Frank did not answer; he stood perfectly passive in Andrew's hands, and cast his eyes on the
ground.

"Don't yer hear his reverence?" shouted the latter in the boy's ear.

"I dunno," said Frank faintly.

"You'd better let me run him over to Aylesford and have him locked up, sir," said Andrew. 
"He'd find a tongue then."

