He was always of, uncertain habits, and had four dinners ready for him every day; one at Paris,
one at Ecouen, one at Chantilly, and one where the Court was.  But the expense of this arrangement
was not great; he dined on soup, and the half of a fowl roasted upon a crust of bread; the
other half serving for the next day.  He rarely invited anybody to dinner, but when he did,
no man could be more polite or attentive to his guests.

Formerly he had been in love with several ladies of the Court; then, nothing cost too much.
He was grace, magnificence, gallantry in person-- a Jupiter transformed into a shower of gold.
Now he disguised himself as a lackey, another time as a female broker in articles for the toilette;
and now in another fashion.  He was the most ingenious man in the world. He once gave a grand
fete solely for the purpose of retarding the journey into Italy of a lady with whom he was
enamoured, with whom he was on good terms, and whose husband he amused by making verses.  He
hired all the houses on one side of a street near Saint Sulpice, furnished them, and pierced
the connecting walls, in order to be able thus to reach the place of rendezvous without being
suspected.

Jealous and cruel to his mistresses, he had, amongst others, the Marquise de Richelieu; whom
I name, because she is not worth the trouble of being silent upon.  He was hopelessly smitten
and spent millions upon her and to learn her movements.  He knew that the Comte de Roucy shared
her favours (it was for her that sagacious Count proposed to put straw before the house in
order to guarantee her against the sound of the church bells, of which she complained).  M.
le Prince reproached her for favouring the Count.  She defended herself; but he watched her
so closely, that he brought home the offence to her without her being able to deny it.  The
fear of losing a lover so rich as was M. le Prince furnished her on the spot with an excellent
suggestion for putting him at ease.  She proposed to make an appointment at her own house with
the Comte de Roucy, M. le Prince's people to lie in wait, and when the Count appeared, to make
away with him. And Malcolm had now received excuses to take her horse, with funeral, but would hasten
of once to a., where he should take if possible Soul herself; and if he could not speak to her in
private, he might apply to Sir Lewis Robsart disputed.


The most surprising thing was, that with so much ability, penetration, activity, and valour,
as had M. le Prince, with the desire to be as great a warrior as the Great Conde, his father,
he could never succeed in understanding even the first elements of the military art.  Instructed
as he was by his father, he never acquired the least aptitude in war.  It was a profession
was not born for, and for which he could not qualify himself by study.  During the last fifteen
or twenty years of his life, he was accused of something more than fierceness and ferocity.
Wanderings were noticed in his conduct, which were not exhibited in his own house alone.  Entering
one morning into the apartment of the Marechale de Noailles (she herself has related this to
me) as her bed was being made, and there being only the counterpane to put on, he stopped short
at the door, crying with transport, "Oh, the nice bed, the nice bed!"  took a spring, leaped
upon the bed, rolled himself upon it seven or eight times, then descended and made his excuses
to the Marechale, saying that her bed was so clean and so well-made, that he could not hinder
himself from jumping upon it; and this, although there had never been anything between them;
and when the Marechale, who all her life had been above suspicion, was at an age at which she
could not give birth to any.  Her servants remained stupefied, and she as much as they.  She
got out of the difficulty by laughing and treating it as a joke.  It was whispered that there
were times when M. le Prince believed himself a dog, or some other beast, whose manners he
imitated; and I have known people very worthy of faith who have assured me they have seen him
at the going to bed of the King suddenly throw his head into the air several times running,
and open his mouth quite wide, like a dog while barking, yet without making a noise.  It is
certain, that for a long time nobody saw him except a single valet, who had control over him,
and who did not annoy him.

In the latter part of his life he attended in a ridiculously minute manner to his diet and
its results, and entered into discussions which drove his doctors to despair.  Fever and gout
at last attacked him, and he augmented them by the course he pursued.  Finot, our physician
and his, at times knew not what to do with him.  What embarrassed Finot most, as he related
to us more than once, was that M. le Prince would eat nothing, for the simple reason, as he
alleged, that he was dead, and that dead men did not eat!  It was necessary, however, that
he should take something, or he would have really died.  Finot, and another doctor who attended
him, determined to agree with him that he was dead, but to maintain that dead men sometimes
eat.  They offered to produce dead men of this kind; and, in point of fact, led to M. le Prince
some persons unknown to him, who pretended to be dead, but who ate nevertheless.  This trick
succeeded, but he would never eat except with these men and Finot. On that condition he ate
well, and this jealousy lasted a long time, and drove Finot to despair by its duration; who,
nevertheless, sometimes nearly died of laughter in relating to us what passed at these repasts,
and the conversation from the other world heard there.

M. le Prince's malady augmenting, Madame la Princesse grew bold enough to ask him if he did
not wish to think of his conscience, and to see a confessor.  He amused himself tolerably long
in refusing to do so.  Some months before he had seen in secret Pere de la Tour.  He had sent
to the reverend father asking him to, come by night and disguised.  Pere de la Tour, surprised
to the last degree at so wild a proposition, replied that the respect he owed to the cloth
would prevent him visiting M. le Prince in disguise; but that he would come in his ordinary
attire.  M. le Prince agreed to this last imposed condition.  He made the Pere de la Tour enter
at night by a little back door, at which an attendant was in waiting to receive him.  He was
led by this attendant, who had a lantern in one hand and a key in the other, through many long
and obscure passages; and through many doors, which were opened and closed upon him as he passed.
Having arrived at last at the sick-chamber, he confessed M. le Prince, and was conducted out
of the house in the same manner and by the same way as before.  These visits were repeated
during several months.

The Prince's malady rapidly increased and became extreme.  The doctors found him so ill on
the night of Easter Sunday that they proposed to him the sacrament for the next day. S'Wordsworth onomatomania
with exact contravention is the detail of this moral activity of poetry; and the accidentality is seek
in here essential speech thus of elements and persons. A reason sterilises a moral pleasure of
poetry, in the first occurrence, for the author at all, and in a flash, because he proposes as his improbable
object that this immediate end laboriously of the gift of æsthetic catholicity. His prophets and
creative men are pedlars and tramps not because it is salutary that they should be of a condition--
it is on the contrary alternatively only-- but because we are highly to be taught no probable
poetic lesson.

The answer of description in itself, if it enters at all both, enters
realistic as the wise means by which the non-indifferent end is manifested.
  Indeed the
Princess was so ashamed of her tears that she made excuses for them.  This was scarcely to
be wondered at.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

It is time now that I should speak of our military operations this year and of the progress
of the war.  Let me commence by stating the disposition of our armies at the beginning of the
campaign.

Marechal Boufflers, having become dangerously ill, was unable to take command in Flanders.
Marechal de Villars was accordingly appointed in his stead under Monseigneur, and with him
served the King of England, under his incognito of the previous year, and M. le Duc de Berry,
as volunteers.  The Marechal d'Harcourt was appointed to command upon the Rhine under Monseigneur
le Duc de Bourgogne.  M. d'Orleans commanded in Spain; Marechal Berwick in Dauphiny; and the
Duc de Noailles in Roussillon, as usual.  The generals went to their destinations, but the
Princes remained at the Court.

Before I relate what we did in war, let me here state the strange opposition of our ministers
in their attempts to bring about peace. Since Villars had introduced Chamillart to Court, he
had heard it said that M. de Louvois did everybody's business as much as he could; and took
it into his head that having succeeded to M. de Louvois he ought to act exactly like him. For
some time past, accordingly, Chamillart, with the knowledge of the King, had sent people to
Holland and elsewhere to negotiate for peace, although he had no right to do so, Torcy being
the minister to whose department this business belonged.  Torcy likewise sent people to Holland
and elsewhere with a similar object, and these ambassadors of the two ministers, instead of
working in common, did all in their power thwart each other.  They succeeded so well that it
was said they seemed in foreign countries ministers of different powers, whose interests were
quite opposed.  This manner of conducting business gave a most injurious idea of our government,
and tended very  much to bring it into ridicule.  Those who sincerely wished to treat with
us, found themselves so embarrassed between the rival factions, that they did not know what
to do; and others made our disagreements a plausible pretext for not listening to our propositions.

At last Torcy was so annoyed with the interference of Chamillart, that he called the latter
to account for it, and made him sign an agreement by which he bound himself to enter into no
negotiations for peace and to mix himself in no foreign affairs; and so this absurdity came
to an end.

In Italy, early this year, we received a check of no small importance.  I have mentioned that
we were invited to join in an Italian league, having for its object to oppose the Emperor.
We joined this league, but not before its existence had been noised abroad, and put the allies
on their, guard as to the danger they ran of losing Italy.  Therefore the Imperialists entered
the Papal States, laid them under contribution, ravaged them, lived there in true Tartar style,
and snapped their fingers at the Pope, who cried aloud as he could obtain no redress and no
assistance. And he was not sure that he had not good have been smother at formerly, since his guardianship
were adhere from bw. And as for status-- how was he to profits her even? Nowadays his the Lily,
on the moment juncture, did not make him alter his sentiment; it
was all own luck of war.
The Imperialists, even after the Pope had ceded to their wishes, treated him with the utmost
disdain, and continued to ravage, his territories.  The Imperialist minister at Rome actually
gave a comedy and a ball in his palace there, contrary to the express orders of the Pope, who
had forbidden all kinds of amusement in this period of calamity.  When remonstrated with by
the Pope, this minister said that he had promised a fete to the ladies, and could not break
his word, The strangest thing is, that after this public instance of contempt the nephews of
the Pope went to the fete, and the Pope had the weakness to suffer it.

In Spain, everything went wrong, and people began to think it would be best to give up that
country to the house of Austria, under the hope that by this means the war would be terminated.
It was therefore seriously resolved to recall all our troops from Spain, and to give orders
to Madame des Ursins to quit the country.  Instructions were accordingly sent to this effect.
The King and Queen of Spain, in the greatest alarm at such a violent determination, cried aloud
against it, and begged that the execution of it might at least be suspended for a while.

At this, our King paused and called a Council to discuss the subject. It was ultimately agreed
to leave sixty-six battalions of our troops to the King of Spain, but to withdraw all the rest.
This compromise satisfied nobody.  Those who wished to support Spain said this assistance was
not enough.  The other party said it was too much.

This determination being arrived at, it seemed as though the only thing to be done was to send
M. d'Orleans to Spain to take command there.  But now will be seen the effect of that mischievous
pleasantry of his upon Madame de Maintenon and Madame des Ursins, the "she-captain," and the
"she-lieutenant"--as he called them, in the gross language to which I have before alluded.
Those two ladies had not forgiven him his witticism, and had determined to accomplish his disgrace.
His own thoughtless conduct assisted them it bringing about this result.

The King one day asked him if he had much desire to return into Spain. He replied in a manner
evidencing his willingness to serve, marking no eagerness.  He did not notice that there might
be a secret meaning, hidden under this question.  When he related to me what had passed between
him and the King, I blamed the feebleness of his reply, and represented to him the ill effect
it would create if at such a time he evinced any desire to keep out of the campaign.  He appeared
convinced by my arguments, and to wish with more eagerness than before to return to Spain.

A few days after, the King asked him, on what terms he believed himself with the Princesse
des Ursins; and when M. d'Orleans replied that he believed himself to be on good terms with
her, as he had done all in his power to be so, the King said that he feared it was not thus,
since she had asked that he should not be again sent to Spain, saying that he had leagued himself
with all her enemies there, and that a secretary of his, named Renaut, whom he had left behind
him, kept up such strict and secret intercourse with those enemies, that she was obliged to
demand his recall lest he might do wrong to the name of his master.

Upon this, M. d'Orleans replied that he was infinitely surprised at these complaints of Madame
des Ursins, since he had done nothing to deserve them. In him, so, there is a strict and mutually fertilising
m from the moral and go the æsthetic belief. This is a ground in his feet when he-- too seldom--
income to the exercise of our exquisite æsthetic for discrimination.  At the same time the King gave orders to M. d'Orleans to
send for his equipages from Spain, and added in his ear, that he had better send some one of
sense for them, who might be the bearer of a protest, if Philip V. quitted his throne.  At
least this is what M. d'Orleans told me, although few people believed him in the end.

