ALTHOUGH my father had long since renounced the copyright in all his works written after 1883,
and although, after having made all his real estate over to his children, he had, as a matter
of fact, no property left, still he could not but be aware that his life was far from corresponding
to his principles, and this consciousness perpetually preyed upon his mind. One has only to
read some of his posthumous works attentively to see that the idea of leaving home and radically
altering his whole way of life had presented itself to him long since and was a continual temptation
to him.

This was the cherished dream that always allured him, but which he did not think himself justified
in putting into practice.

The life of the Christian must be a "reasonable and happy life IN ALL POSSIBLE CIRCUMSTANCES,"
he used to say as he struggled with the temptation to go away, and gave up his own soul for others.

I remember reading in Gusef's memoirs how my father once, in conversation with Gusoryof, the
peasant, who had made up his mind to leave his home for religious reasons, said, "My life is
a hundred thousand times more loathsome than yours, but yet I cannot leave it."

I shall not enumerate all the letters of abuse and amazement which my father received from
all sides, upbraiding him with luxury, with inconsistency, and even with torturing his peasants.
It is easy to imagine what an impression they made on him.

He said there was good reason to revile him; he called their abuse "a bath for the soul," but
internally he suffered from the "bath," and saw no way out of his difficulties. He bore his
cross, and it was in this self-renunciation that his power consisted, though many either could
not or would not understand it. He alone, despite all those about him, knew that this cross
was laid on him not of man, but of God; and while he was strong, he loved his burden and shared
it with none.

Just as thirty years before he had been haunted by the temptation to suicide, so now he struggled
with a new and more powerful temptation, that of flight.

A few days before he left Yasnaya he called on Marya Alexandrovna Schmidt at Ovsyanniki and
confessed to her that he wanted to go away.

The old lady held up her hands in horror and said:

"Gracious Heavens, Lyoff Nikolaievich, have you come to such a pitch of weakness?"

When I learned, on October 28, 1910, that my father had left Yasnaya, the same idea occurred
to me, and I even put it into words in a letter I sent to him at Shamerdino by my sister Sasha.

I did not know at the time about certain circumstances which have since made a great deal clear
to me that was obscure before.

From the moment of my father's death till now I have been racking my brains to discover what
could have given him the impulse to take that last step. What power could compel him to yield
in the struggle in which he had held firmly and tenaciously for many years? What was the last
drop, the last grain of sand that turned the scales, and sent him forth to search for a new
life on the very edge of the grave?

Could he really have fled from home because the wife that he had lived with for forty-eight
years had developed neurasthenia and at one time showed certain abnormalities characteristic
of that malady? Was that like the man who so loved his fellows and so well knew the human heart?
Or did he suddenly desire, when he was eighty-three, and weak and helpless, to realize the
idea of a pilgrim's life?

If so, why did he take my sister Sasha and Dr. Makowicki with him? He could not but know that
in their company he would be just as well provided with all the necessaries of life as he would
have been at Yasnaya Polyana. It would have been the most palpable self-deception.

Knowing my father as I did, I felt that the question of his flight was not so simple as it
seemed to others, and the problem lay long unsolved before me until it was suddenly made clear
by the will that he left behind him.

I remember how, after N. S. Leskof's death, my father read me his posthumous instructions with
regard to a pauper funeral, with no speeches at the grave, and so on, and how the idea of writing
his own will then came into his head for the first time.

His first will was written in his diary, on March 27, 1895. [27]

The fourth paragraph, to which I wish to call particular attention, contains a request to his
next of kin to transfer the right of publishing his writings to society at large, or, in other
words, to renounce the copyright of them.

"But I only request it, and do not direct it. It is a good thing to do. And it will be good
for you to do it; but if you do not do it, that is your affair. It means that you are not yet
ready to do it. The fact that my writings have been bought and sold during these last ten years
has been the most painful thing in my whole life to me."

Three copies were made of this will, and they were kept by my sister Masha, my brother Sergei,
and Tchertkof.

I knew of its existence, but I never saw it till after my father's death, and I never inquired
of anybody about the details.

I knew my father's views about copyright, and no will of his could have added anything to what
I knew. I knew, moreover, that this will was not properly executed according to the forms of
law, and personally I was glad of that, for I saw in it another proof of my father's confidence
in his family. I need hardly add that I never doubted that my father's wishes would be carried out.

My sister Masha, with whom I once had a conversation on the subject, was of the same opinion.

In 1909 my father stayed with Mr. Tchertkof at Krekshin, and there for the first time he wrote
a formal will, attested by the signature of witnesses. How this will came to be written I do
not know, and I do not intend to discuss it. It afterward appeared that it also was imperfect
from a legal point of view, and in October, 1909, it had all to be done again.

As to the writing of the third we are fully informed by Mr. F. Strakhof in an article which
he published in the St. Petersburg "Gazette" on November 6, 1911.

Mr. Strakhof left Moscow at night. He had calculated on Sofya Andreyevna, [28] whose presence
at Yasnaya Polyana was highly inexpedient for the business on which he was bound, being still
in Moscow.

The business in question, as was made clear in the preliminary consultation which V. G. Tchertkof
held with N. K. Muravyof, the solicitor, consisted in getting fresh signatures from Lyoff Nikolaievich,
whose great age made it desirable to make sure, without delay, of his wishes being carried
out by means of a more unassailable legal document. Strakhof brought the draft of the will
with him, and laid it before Lyoff Nikolaievich. After reading the paper through, he at once
wrote under it that he agreed with its purport, and then added, after a pause:

"All this business is very disagreeable to me, and it is unnecessary. To insure the propagation
of my ideas by taking all sorts of measures--why, no word can perish without leaving its trace,
if it expresses a truth, and if the man who utters it believes profoundly in its truth. But
all these outward means for insuring it only come of our disbelief in what we utter."

And with these words Lyoff Nikolaievich left the study.

Thereupon Mr. Strakhof began to consider what he must do next, whether he should go back with
empty hands, or whether he should argue it out.

He decided to argue it out, and endeavored to explain to my father how painful it would be
for his friends after his death to hear people blaming him for not having taken any steps,
despite his strong opinion on the subject, to see that his wishes were carried out, and for
having thereby helped to transfer his copyrights to the members of his family.

Tolstoy promised to think it over, and left the room again.

At dinner Sofya Andreyevna "was evidently far from having any suspicions." When Tolstoy was
not by, however, she asked Mr. Strakhof what he had come down about. Inasmuch as Mr. Strakhof
had other affairs in hand besides the will, he told her about one thing and another with an
easy conscience.

Mr. Strakhof described a second visit to Yasnaya, when he came to attest the same will as a
witness.

When he arrived, he said: "The countess had not yet come down. I breathed again."

Of his departure, he said:

As I said good-by to Sofya Andreyevna, I examined her countenance attentively. Such complete
tranquillity and cordiality toward her departing guests were written on it that I had not the
smallest doubt of her complete ignorance of what was going on.... I left the house with the
pleasing consciousness of a work well done--a work that was destined to have a considerable
historic consequence. I only felt some little twinge within, certain qualms of conscience about
the conspiratorial character of the transaction.

But even this text of the will did not quite satisfy my father's "friends and advisers"; it
was redrafted for the fourth and last time in July, 1910.

This last draft was written by my father himself in the Limonovski Forest, two miles from the
house, not far from Mr. Tchertkof's estate.

Such is the melancholy history of this document, which was destined to have historic consequences.
"All this business is very disagreeable to me, and it is unnecessary," my father said when
he signed the paper that was thrust before him. That was his real opinion about his will, and
it never altered to the end of his days.

Is there any need of proof for that? I think one need know very little of his convictions to
have no doubt about it.

Was Lyoff Nikolaievich Tolstoy likely of his own accord to have recourse to the protection
of the law? And, if he did, was he likely to conceal it from his wife and children?

He had been put into a position from which there was absolutely no way out. To tell his wife
was out of the question; it would have grievously offended his friends. To have destroyed the
will would have been worse still; for his friends had suffered for his principles morally,
and some of them materially, and had been exiled from Russia. He felt himself bound to them.

And on the top of all this were his fainting fits, his increasing loss of memory, the clear
consciousness of the approach of death, and the continually growing nervousness of his wife,
who felt in her heart of hearts the unnatural estrangement of her husband, and could not understand
it. If she asked him what it was that he was concealing from her, he would either have to say
nothing or to tell her the truth. But that was impossible.

So it came about that the long-cherished dream of leaving Yasnaya Polyana presented itself
as the only means of escape. It was certainly not in order to enjoy the full realization of
his dream that he left his home; he went away only as a choice of evils.

"I am too feeble and too old to begin a new life," he had said to my brother Sergei only a
few days before his departure.

Harassed, ill in body and in mind, he started forth without any object in view, without any
thought-out plan, merely in order to hide himself somewhere, wherever it might be, and get
some rest from the moral tortures which had become insupportable to him.

"To fly, to fly!" he said in his deathbed delirium as he lay at Astapova.

"Has papa considered that mama may not survive the separation from him?" I asked my sister
Sasha on October 29, when she was on the point of going to join him at Shamerdino.

"Yes, he has considered all that, and still made up his mind to go, because he thinks that
nothing could be worse than the state that things have come to here," she answered.

I confess that my explanation of my father's flight by no means exhausts the question. Life
is complex and every explanation of a man's conduct is bound to suffer from one-sidedness.
Besides, there are circumstances of which I do not care to speak at the present moment, in
order not to cause unnecessary pain to people still living. It may be that if those who were
about my father during the last years of his life had known what they were doing, things would
have turned out differently.

The years will pass. The accumulated incrustations which hide the truth will pass away. Much
will be wiped out and forgotten. Among other things my father's will will be forgotten--that
will which he himself looked upon as an "unnecessary outward means." And men will see more
clearly that legacy of love and truth in which he believed deeply, and which, according to
his own words, "cannot perish without a trace."

In conclusion I cannot refrain from quoting the opinion of one of my kinsmen, who, after my
father's death, read the diaries kept both by my father and my mother during the autumn before
Lyoff Nikolaievich left Yasnaya Polyana.

"What a terrible misunderstanding!" he said. "Each loved the other with such poignant affection,
each was suffering all the time on the other's behalf, and then this terrible ending!... I
see the hand of fate in this."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: The name we gave to the stone annex.]

[Footnote 2: The instinct for lime, necessary to feed their bones, drives Russian children
to nibble pieces of chalk or the whitewash off the wall. In this case the boy was running to
one of the grown-ups in the house, and whom he called uncle, as Russian children call everybody
uncle or aunt, to get a piece of the chalk that he had for writing on the blackboard. "Us,"
he said to some one when the boy was gone. Which of us would have expressed himself like that?
You see, he did not say to "get" or to "break off," but to "bite off," which was right, because
they did literally "bite" off the chalk from the lump with their teeth, and not break it off.]

[Footnote 3: About $3000.]

[Footnote 4: The zala is the chief room of a house, corresponding to the English drawing-room,
but on a grand scale. The gostinaya--literally guest-room, usually translated as drawing-room--is
a place for more intimate receptions. At Yasnaya Polyana meals were taken in the zala, but
this is not the general Russian custom, houses being provided also with a stolovaya, or dining-room.]

[Footnote 5: Kaftan, a long coat of various cuts, including military and naval frock-coat,
and the long gown worn by coachmen.]

[Footnote 6: Afanasyi Shenshin, the poet, who adopted his mother's name, Fet, for a time, owing
to official difficulties about his birth-certificate. An intimate friend of Tolstoy's.]

[Footnote 7: "Sovremennik," or "Contemporary Review," edited by the poet Mekrasof, was the
rallying-place for the "men of the forties," the new school of realists. Ostrovsky is the dramatist;
Gontcharof the novelist, author of "Oblomof"; Grigorovitch wrote tales about peasant life,
and was the discoverer of Tchekhof's talent as a serious writer.]

[Footnote 8: The balks are the banks dividing the fields of different owners or crops. Hedges
are not used for this purpose in Russia.]

[Footnote 9: Pazanki, tracks of a hare, name given to the last joint of the hind legs.]

[Footnote 10: A Moscow monthly, founded by Katkof, who somehow managed to edit both this and
the daily "Moskovskiya Vyedomosti," on which "Uncle Kostya" worked at the same time.]

[Footnote 11: Dmitry. My father's brother Dmitry died in 1856; Nikolai died September 20, 1860.]

[Footnote 12: That is to say, his eyes went always on the straightest road to attain satisfaction
for himself.]

[Footnote 13: Khamsvniki, a street in Moscow.]

[Footnote 14: Maria Mikhailovna, his wife.]

[Footnote 15: Tolstoy's sister. She became a nun after her husband's death and the marriage
of her three daughters.]

[Footnote 16: Tolstoy was in the artillery, and commanded a battery in the Crimea.]

[Footnote 17: Fet, at whose house the quarrel took place, tells all about it in his memoirs.
Tolstoy dogmatized about lady-like charity, apropos of Turgenieff's daughter. Turgenieff, in
a fit of nerves, threatened to box his ears. Tolstoy challenged him to a duel, and Turgenieff
apologized.]

[Footnote 18: Turgenieff was ten years older than Tolstoy.]

[Footnote 19: I had written to my father that my fiancee's mother would not let me marry for
two years.]

[Footnote 20: My father took Griboyehof's PRINCESS MARYA ALEXEVNA as a type. The allusion here
is to the last words of Griboyehof's famous comedy, "The Misfortune of Cleverness," "What will
PRINCESS MARYA ALEXEVNA say?"]

[Footnote 21: Be loved by them.]

[Footnote 22: His wife's.]

[Footnote 23: A novelist, died 1895.]

[Footnote 24: One of the authors of "Junker Schmidt."]

[Footnote 25: The curious may be disposed to trace to some such "corrections beforehand" the
remarkable discrepancy of style and matter which distinguishes some of Tolstoy's later works,
published after his death by Mr. Tchertkof and his literary executors.]

[Footnote 26: Tolstoy's private secretary, arrested and banished in 1908.]

[Footnote 27: Five weeks after Leskof's death.]

[Footnote 28: The Countess Tolstoy.]