   "My dear Mr. Johnson, I have received your letter with many thanks.  I
   am so much obliged for your letting me know of MY LADS, and have
   written to them a few lines.  I wish sometimes I was with you.  I like
   your quiet earnestness; there is little of that here, and I like the
   work; I have also said a few words to your son; the Holy Ghost is the
   teacher for Him, and will not leave His work till he is happy.

   I hope Mr. Wardle is improving in health.  "And he shall sit as a
   refiner and purifier of silver."  Silver is spoilt if heated too much,
   therefore the refiner sits watching; until it is purified when the
   refiner sees his image reflected in its surface; so with us, our Lord
   will see that we are not too much heated, only just enough to reflect
   His image.  Will you thank Mr. Fielden for his kind letter, I quite
   feel for his trials in that district, but he has a fellow helper and
   worker in his kind Lord who feels for him and will support him through
   all.  Give my kind regard to Spence, your wife and son, and to all my
   friends.

   And believe me my dear Mr. Johnson,

   Yours sincerely,
   C. G. GORDON."

Mr. Johnson writes:--

   "One evening after I had been observing his patient endurance and
   perseverance with one of the reckless, insolent lads as we left the
   school, I, in a quiet pleasant way remarked "I fear Colonel, your
   Christian work in Dark Lane Ragged School will never get the fame and
   applause from this world that your military achievements in China have
   lately secured for you."

   "My dear Sir," he replied "If I can but be the means in the hands of
   God of leading any of these precious sons to Jesus, I must place that
   amongst the most glorious trophies of my life, and to hear the Master
   at last say 'Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of the least of these,
   ye have done it unto Me,' will be to me a resplendent undying glory
   when so many of earth's fleeting honours have tarnished."

   "It is impossible (says Lord Blatchford about General Gordon) to
   imagine a man more completely in the presence of God, or more
   absolutely careless of his own distinction, comfort, wealth or life.  A
   man unreservedly devoted to the cause of the oppressed.  One bows
   before him as before a man of a superior order of things."  Mr.
   Boulger says, "There will never be another Gordon."

We believe Gordon answered to all these encomiums and well deserved them.

Edgmont Hake, writing of him says:--"He lived wholly for others; his home at Gravesend was
school, hospital, church, and almshouse all in one.  His work more like that of a Home missionary
than of a military officer.  The troubles of all interested him alike, but he had a warm corner
in his heart for lads."  This will be seen from letters produced.  Many of the lads he rescued
from the slums and gutters; he cleaned them, clothed them, fed them, and gave them shelter
and home, sometimes for weeks and even longer.  He taught in the evenings lessons suitable
to their conditions; not forgetting the moral and spiritual side of his work.  And he did this
work without fee or reward, and he did it with all his heart. He was as enthusiastic about
this duty as he was about his military duties.  He called these lads "His kings."

Leigh Hunt's ideal of a king describes very closely Gordon's ideal:--

   "'Tis not the wealth that makes a king
   Nor the purple colouring,
   Nor a brow that's bound with gold,
   Nor gate on mighty hinges rolled;
   That king is he who void of fear,
   Can look abroad with bosom clear,
   Who can tread ambition down,
   Nor be swayed by smile nor frown,
   Nor for all the treasure cares,
   That mine conceals or harvest wears,
   Or that golden sands deliver,
   Bosomed on a glassy river,
   Safe with wisdom for his crown,
   He looks on all things calmly down,
   He has no fear of earthly thing,
   This is it that makes a king,
   And all of us who e'er we be
   May carve us out such royalty."

On one occasion a lad in the employ of a Gravesend tradesman was discovered to have been pilfering
on a somewhat serious scale.  When the fact was proved beyond question, the master declared
he would have the boy punished by imprisonment.  The mother of the boy, hearing of this sad
affair, was almost broken-hearted, and at her wit's end.  Someone who had heard of Gordon's
love for lads, also his intense desire to help all in trouble, suggested that she should see
him and explain her case.  So, with all a mother's earnestness, she went at once to Gordon
and told him the whole story, and begged with tears for his sympathy and help.  After hearing
the story his heart was touched, he could not refuse a mother's appeal.  When a mother pleads,
there is power and pathos difficult for any to withstand, much less Gordon.  So he went to
the lad's late employer, and after considerable argument, the master undertook not to prosecute,
but only on condition that Gordon would personally undertake to look after the lad himself,
for one year at least.  This Gordon promised, and he took the boy to his own home, sent him
to a good school at his own expense for the year; then he got him a good situation on board
one of Her Majesty's vessels.  That lad became a man of honour and respectability, secured
good situations, won for himself a good character, and the mother and the sailor boy in their
heart often blessed Gordon, who saved the boy from prison, ruin and disgrace, and the mother
from a broken heart.  His rescue work amongst boys was work he loved supremely, in it he found
his highest joys.  His pleasures were not secured where many seek them, viz., at the theatre,
at the gambling-house, at the racecourse, at the public-house, or in accumulating wealth, or
in winning renown and glory--these were nothing to Gordon.  To save a fallen lad, was to him
the highest gratification; in this work he was very successful.

Many a rescued lad was he able to restore to his home and to society, and to the world.  For
many of these lads he was able to secure situations on board ship.  To show his interest in
them when away he had a large map on his study wall, in this map were pins in very many places.
These, he told a visitor, showed the position of the ships on which his lads were located;
and he moved the pins as the ships moved and prayed for each boy from day to day.  The workhouse
and the infirmary were places he used to visit, and his visits were remembered by the inmates,
as all the fruits and flowers he could grow were given to these places and to the sick and
poor whom he visited.  Very often the dying sent for him in preference to a clergyman, and
he was, if at home, always ready; no matter what the weather or what the distance.  His works
were essentially works of charity, and these were not done to be seen of men.  He was one of
the humblest men I ever met.  He would not occupy the chair at a meeting or even go on to the
platform.  Once I remember he addressed a gathering after tea of those who had been rescued
and who were likely to be useful to others, but he would not be lionised or praised.  He would
say, "No; I am but the instrument: the praise belongs to God."  His spirit was the fruitful
cause of all the work he did.

   "Give me that lowest place,
   Not that I dare ask for that lowest place.
   But Thou hast died that I might share
   Thy glory by Thy side.
   Give me that lowest place, or if for me
   That lowest place too high
   Make one more low, where I may sit
   And see my God; and love Thee so."  This kindled his enthusiasm, influenced
his chivalrous character, and we think had largely to do with his
success.  To know him was to know a Christian, a Christlike man--God's
man.

With Job (ch.

He could truly say

   "I live for those that love me:
   For those that know me true;
   For the heaven that smiles above me
   And waits my coming too.
   For the cause that needs assistance,
   For the wrong that needs resistance.
   For the future in the distance,
   And for the good that I can do."

Upon his removal from Gravesend in 1873 a local newspaper writing of his removal, and deploring
his loss, said--"Our readers will hear with regret of the departure of Colonel Gordon from
the town, in which he has resided for six years; gaining a name for the most exquisite charity
that will long be remembered.  Nor will he be less missed than remembered, for in the lowest
walks of life he has been so unwearied in well-doing that his departure will be felt as a terrible
calamity.  His charity was essential charity, having its root in deep philanthropic feeling
and goodness, and always shunning the light of publicity."  Many were the friends who grieved
over his departure from Gravesend, for they ne'er would look upon his like again.

CHAPTER V.

   "If a man do not erect in this age his own tomb e'er he dies, he shall
   live no longer in monuments than the bell rings and his widow
   weeps."--SHAKESPEARE.

A new chapter now opens in our story of Gordon.  Sir Samuel Baker had resigned the honoured
position of Governor General of the Soudan.  Gordon was selected as the man who, of all others,
was most suitable for such an appointment.  Our Government acquiesced in the Khedive's offer
of this post to Gordon, so he accepted the responsible position.

The Khedive offered him, it is stated, a salary 10,000 pounds per annum; this, however, he
refused to accept.  He said "Your Majesty I cannot accept it, as I should look upon it as the
life's blood wrung out of those poor people over whom you wish me to rule."  "Name your own
terms then," said the Khedive.  "Well," replied Gordon, "2,000 pounds per annum I think will
keep body and soul together, what should I require more than this for."  About the close of
the year 1873 he left his country and loved ones behind him, for that lone sad land, with its
ancient history. We think Gordon played such a part that his name will be honourably associated
with Egypt, and remembered from generation to generation.

I am indebted to the author of Gordon in Central Africa for the following abstract of the Khedive's
final instructions to Col. Gordon, dated Feb. 16th, 1874.

   "The province which Colonel Gordon has undertaken to organise and to
   govern is but little known.  Up to the last few years, it had been in
   the hands of adventurers who had thought of nothing but their own
   lawless gains, and who had traded in ivory and slaves.  They
   established factories and governed them with armed men.  The
   neighbouring tribes were forced to traffic with them whether they
   liked it or not.  The Egyptian Government, in the hope of putting an
   end to this inhuman trade had taken the factories into their own
   hands, paying the owners an indemnification.

   Some of these men, nevertheless, had been still allowed to carry on
   trade in the district, under a promise that they would not deal in
   slaves.  They had been placed under the control of the Governor of the
   Soudan.  His authority, however, had scarcely been able to make itself
   felt in these remote countries.  The Khedive had resolved therefore to
   form them into a separate government, and to claim as a monopoly of
   the State, the whole of the trade with the outside world.  There was
   no other way of putting an end to the slave trade which at present was
   carried on by force of arms in defiance of law.  When once brigandage
   had become a thing of the past, and when once a breach had been made
   in the lawless customs of long ages, then trade might be made free to
   all.  If the men who had been in the pay of adventurers were willing
   to enter the service of the Government, Col. Gordon was to make all
   the use of them he could.  If on the other hand they attempted to
   follow their old course of life, whether openly or secretly, he was to
   put in force against them to the utmost severity of martial law.  Such
   men as these must find in the Governor neither indulgence, nor mercy.
   The lesson must be made clear even in those remote parts that a mere
   difference of colour does not turn men into wares, and that life and
   liberty are sacred things."

Another object of the new Governor should be to establish a line of posts through all his provinces,
so that from one end to the other they might be brought into direct communication with Khartoum.
Those posts should follow, as far as was possible, the line of the Nile; but for a distance
of seventy miles the navigation of that river was hindered by rapids.  He was to search out
the best way of overcoming this hindrance, and to make a report thereon to the Khedive.

In dealing with the Chieftains of the tribes which dwelt on the shores of the lakes, the Governor
was above all to try to win their confidence. He must respect their territory, and conciliate
them by presents, and whatever influence he gains over them, he must use in the endeavour to
persuade them to put an end to the wars, which they so often make on each other in the hope
of carrying off slaves.  Much tact would be needed, for should he succeed in stopping the slave
trade, while wars were still waged among the chiefs, it might well come to pass that, for want
of a market, the prisoners would, in such a case, be slaughtered.  Should he find it needful
to exercise a real control over any of these tribes, it will be better to leave to the chieftains
the direct government.  Their obedience must be secured by making them dread his power.

He made the journey to Khartoum without any mishap or serious difficulty, reaching there in
May, 1874, and was installed in office on the fifth.  A royal salute from the government house
guns was fired in honour of this event; the new Governor-General was, of course, expected to
make a speech, after the order of his predecessors.  But all he said was, "With the help of
God I will hold the balance level."  This was received with the greatest enthusiasm, for it
evidently pleased the people more than if he had addressed them for an hour.  His attention
was soon directed towards the poverty-stricken and helpless people all around him.  He caused
special enquiries to be made; then he began to distribute his gifts of charity to all who he
believed were really in need; and in three days he had given away one thousand pounds of his
first year's salary.  He had not been long in the Soudan before he realized the tremendous
responsibilities he had assumed; and with all his strength of character, and his trust in his
Almighty, ever-present Friend, it is not to be wondered at that when alone in the trackless
desert, with the results of ages of wrong-doing before him, this man of heroic action and indomitable
spirit sometimes gave way to depression and murmuring; although this was exceedingly rare.
If we remember what he had already done and suffered for down-trodden humanity.  And that now
he was doing heroic work for the true hero's wages--the love of Christ, and the good of his
fellow-men.  He was labouring not for himself, but as the hand of God in providence, in the
faith that his work was of God's own appointing.  The wonder is that in the face of perils
so dangerous, work so difficult, and sufferings so intense, that his spirit was not completely
crushed and broken.  We must bear in mind, his work there was to secure peace to a country
that appeared to be bent on war; to suppress slavery amongst a people to whom it was a second
nature, and to whom the trade in human flesh was life, and honour, and fortune.  To make and
discipline an army out of the rawest recruits ever put in the field, to develop and grow a
flourishing trade, and to obtain a fair revenue, amid the wildest anarchy in the world; the
immensity of the undertaking, the infinity of detail involved in a single step toward this
end, the countless odds to be faced; the many pests, the deadly climate, the nightly and daily
alternations of overpowering heat, and of bitter cold, to be endured and overcome; the environment
of bestial savagery, and ruthless fanaticism;--all these contributed to make the achievement
unique in human history.  He was face to face with evil in its worst form, and saw it in all
its appalling effects upon the nation and its people.  He seemed to have everything against
him, and to be utterly alone.  There stood in front of him the grim ruined land.  He faced
it, however, as a saint and soldier should do; he stood for right, truth, and for God.

{Gordon on his favourite camel: p81.jpg}

   "He would dare to do right.  Dare to be true
   He had a work that no other could do;
   He would do it so wisely, so bravely, so well,
   That angels might hasten the story to tell."

After some time he writes:--

   "How the Khedive is towards me I don't know, but thank God he prevents
   me caring for any one's favour or disfavour.  I honestly say I do not
   know anyone who would endure the exile and worries of my position out
   here.  Some might fear if they were dismissed, that the world would
   talk.  Thank God! I am screened from that fear.  I know that I have
   done my best, as far as my intellect would allow me, for the Khedive,
   and have tried to be just to all."

On contemplating retirement, he writes:--

   "Now imagine what I lose by coming back, if God so wills it; a life in
   a tent, with a cold humid air at night, to which if, from the heat of
   the tent you expose yourself, you will suffer for it, either in liver
   or elsewhere.  The most ordinary fare.  Most ordinary I can assure
   you; no vegetables, dry biscuits, a few bits of broiled meat, and some
   dry macaroni, boiled in water and sugar.  I forgot some soup; up at
   dawn and to bed between eight and nine p.m.  No books but one, and
   that not often read for long, for I cannot sit down for a study of
   those mysteries.  All day long, worrying about writing orders, to be
   obeyed by others in the degree as they are near or distant from me:
   obliged to think of the veriest trifle, even to the knocking off the
   white ants from the stores, etc.--that is one's life; and, speaking
   materially, for what gain?  At the end of two years, say 2,000 pounds.
   At the end of three say 3,500 pounds at the outside.  The gain to be
   called 'His Excellency,' and this money.  Yet his poor 'Excellency'
   has to slave more than any individual; to pull ropes, to mend this;
   make a cover to that (just finished a capital cover to the duck Gun).
   I often say, 'drop the excellency, and do this instead.'"

Again he writes:--

   "This country would soon cure a man of his ambition, I think, and make
   him content with his lot.  The intense heat, and other stagnation
   except you have some disagreeable incident, would tame the most
   enthusiastic; a thin, miserable tent under which you sit, with the
   perspiration pouring off you.  A month of this life, and you would be
   dissatisfied with your lot."

Gordon had kept up some very interesting correspondence with an old friend in China; an old
officer in Gordon's "Ever victorious Army," Li Hung Chang.  While Gordon is feeling unwell,
and disposed to send his resignation to the Khedive--he writes in his journal:--

   July 21st, 1879.

