His first business was to wait upon the family jeweller in Oxford Street, from whom he had
made occasional purchases for birthday presents. The experience was a strange one for him,
and he felt somewhat timid about it. However, when he had explained what he wanted, he was
agreeably astonished at the man's insisting, with a great show of goodwill towards him, he
must accommodate him with fifty pounds, and before Morgan had recovered from his flurry, he
had given an I. O. U. for the amount and had bank notes in his pocket.

"Why, I shouldn't think of charging you any interest," the jeweller had declared, and Morgan
was much puzzled to understand why. Nor did he quite know what this piece of paper he had signed
represented.

He had now accomplished all the action his brain had planned, and it was time to go and meet
his father. And then it struck him as curious that life seemed to be ignoring his ideas and
to be taking him forward despite himself. With all his intense feeling that he must complete
his disattachment from the past, its impetus was stronger than he. Somehow he must go and meet
his father; he must dine with the Medhursts that evening.

As was clear from Archibald Druce's note, the relation between father and son was scarcely
so theatrical as Ingram might have gathered from Morgan's talk the evening before, a fact of
which Morgan was well aware. He had not really intended to give Ingram a theatrical impression,
but the somewhat subtle truth could never have been conveyed in the few words they had had
together, apart from the fact that it must inevitably have got coloured by the mood of the moment.

There had been many vicissitudes between father and son. The latter well remembered the moment
when, unable to keep his big idea to himself any longer, he had divulged it to his father as
they were strolling together in the grounds one sunny afternoon. The two had always been on
the best of terms. Now Archibald Druce's ideas about his Morgan's career had been definitely
shaped for years. He intended that the boy should, after passing through the University, enter
the banking business with which his whole life had been associated, and ultimately become a
partner therein. But Morgan's own idea of his mission in life seemed to the banker so extraordinary
that it made him laugh outright. Unfortunately, too, in addition to pooh-poohing his son's
unexpected ambition, he went on, by way of implanting in him sensible and serious views of
life, to point out that the right to spend money had to be acquired by effort expended.

Morgan had made up his mind at a very boyish age that he was destined to become an immortal
bard; the conceptions he had then formed had remained with him in all their boyish freshness.
They were pure conceptions, detached from the realities, of which he then knew nothing. Poetry
was a great and glorious thing, and when he first decided that his whole life could be devoted
to nothing nobler, he had selected it away from the actual material circumstances from which
existence cannot be extricated.

But in this first talk with his father he had already been brought into collision with these
sordid complications. Archibald's well-intentioned scorn had inflicted a wound that pained
still after the lapse of years. Moreover, by raising financial questions, he had unwittingly
poured poison into that wound. Morgan, however, refused to have his eyes opened and clung desperately
to his detached conception of poetry and the poet's life.

