So that when he gave further proof of the same, by asking, within the week that followed, the
prettiest girl in Homesworth, Frances Shiere, to come and begin the world with him at Mile
Hill village, nobody, not even Frank herself, was astonished.

She bought three new gowns, a shawl, a black silk mantle, and a straw bonnet. She made six
each of every pretty white garment that a woman wears; and one bright mellow evening in September,
they took their first tea in the brown-carpeted, white-shaded little corner room in the old
"Rankin house;" a bigger place than they really wanted yet, and not all to be used at first;
but rented "reasonable," central, sunshiny, and convenient; a place that they hoped they should
buy sometime; facing on the broad sidegreen of the village street, and running back, with its
field and meadow belongings, away to the foot of great, gray, sheltering Mile Hill.

And the vast, solemn globe, heedless of what lit here or there upon its breadth, or took up
this or that life in its little freckling cities, or between the imperceptible foldings of
its hills,--only carrying way-passengers for the centuries,--went plunging on its track, around
and around, and swept them all, a score of times, through its summer and its winter solstices.

IV.

AFTERWARDS IS A LONG TIME.

Old Mr. Marmaduke Wharne had come down from Outledge, in the mountains, on his way home to
New York. He had stopped in Boston to attend to some affairs of his own,--if one can call them
so, since Marmaduke Wharne never had any "own" affairs that did not chiefly concern, to their
advantage, somebody else,--in which his friend Mr. Titus Oldways was interested, not personally,
but Wharne fashion. Now, reader, you know something about Mr. Titus Oldways, which up to this
moment, only God, and Marmaduke Wharne, and Rachel Froke, who kept Mr. Oldways' house, and
wore a Friend's drab dress and white cap, and said "Titus," and "Marmaduke" to the two old
gentlemen, and "thee" and "thou" to everybody,--have ever known. In a general way and relation,
I mean; separate persons knew particular things; but each separate person thought the particular
thing he knew to be a whimsical exception.

Mr. Oldways did not belong to any church: but he had an English Prayer-book under his Bible
on his study table, and Baxter and Fenelon and à Kempis and "Wesley's Hymns," and Swedenborg's
"Heaven and Hell" and "Arcana Celestia," and Lowell's "Sir Launfal," and Dickens's "Christmas
Carol," all on the same set of shelves,--that held, he told Marmaduke, his religion; or as
much of it as he could get together. And he had this woman, who was a Friend, and who walked
by the Inner Light, and in outer charity, if ever a woman did, to keep his house. "For," said
he, "the blessed truth is, that the Word of God is in the world. Alive in it. When you know
that, and wherever you can get hold of his souls, then and there you've got your religion,--a
piece at a time. To prove and sort your pieces, and to straighten the tangle you might otherwise
get into, there's this," and he laid his hand down on the Four Gospels, bound in white morocco,
with a silver cross upon the cover,--a volume that no earthly creature, again, knew of, save
Titus and Marmaduke and Rachel Froke, who laid it into a drawer when she swept and dusted,
and placed it between the crimson folds of its quilted silken wrapper when she had finished,
burnishing the silver cross gently with a scrap of chamois leather cut from a clean piece every
time. There was nothing else delicate and exquisite in all the plain and grim establishment;
and the crimson wrapper was comfortably worn, and nobody would notice it, lying on the table
there, with an almanac, a directory, the big, open Worcester's Dictionary, and the scattered
pamphlets and newspapers of the day.

Out in the world, Titus Oldways went about with visor down.

He gave to no fairs nor public charities; "let them get all they could that way, it wasn't
his way," he said to Rachel Froke. The world thought he gave nothing, either of purse or life.

There was a plan they had together,--he and Marmaduke Wharne,--this girls' story-book will
not hold the details nor the idea of it,--about a farm they owned, and people working it that
could go nowhere else to work anything; and a mill-privilege that might be utilized and expanded,
to make--not money so much as safe and honest human life by way of making money; and they sat
and talked this plan over, and settled its arrangements, in the days that Marmaduke Wharne
was staying on in Boston, waiting for his other friend, Miss Craydocke, who had taken the River
Road down from Outledge, and so come round by Z----, where she was staying a few days with
the Goldthwaites and the Inglesides. Miss Craydocke had a share or two in the farm and in the mill.

And now, Titus Oldways wanted to know of Marmaduke Wharne what he was to do for Afterwards.

It was a question that had puzzled and troubled him. Afterwards.

"While I live," he said, "I will do what I can, and as I can. I will hand over my doing, and
the wherewith, to no society or corporation. I'll pay no salaries nor circumlocutions. Neither
will I--afterwards. And how is my money going to work on?"

"Your money?"

"Well,--God's money."

"How did it work when it came to you?"

Mr. Oldways was silent.

"He chose to send it to you. He made it in the order of things that it should come to you.
You began, yourself, to work for money. You did not understand, then, that the money would
be from God and was for Him."

"He made me understand."

"Yes. He looked out for that part of it too. He can look out for it again. His word shall not
return unto him void."

"He has given me this, though, to pass on; and I will not put it into a machine. I want to
give some living soul a body for its living. Dead charities are dead. It's of no use to will
it to you, Marmaduke; I'm as likely to stay on, perhaps, as you are."

"And the youngest life might drop, the day after your own. You can't take it out of God's hand."

"I must either let it go by law, or will it--here and there. I know enough whom it would help;
but I want to invest, not spend it; to invest it in a life--or lives--that will carry it on
from where I leave it. How shall I know?"

"He giveth it a body as it pleaseth Him," quoted Marmaduke Wharne, thoughtfully. "I am English,
you know, Oldways; I can't help reverencing the claims of next of kin. Unless one is plainly
shown otherwise, it seems the appointment. How can we set aside his ways until He clearly points
us out his own exception?"

"My 'next' are two women whom I don't know, my niece's children. She died thirty years ago."

"Perhaps you ought to know them."

"I know about them; I've kept the run; but I've held clear of family. They didn't need me,
and I had no right to put it into their heads they did, unless I fully meant"--

He broke off.

"They're like everybody else, Wharne; neither better nor worse, I dare say; but the world is
full of just such women. How do I know this money would be well in their hands--even for themselves?"

"Find out."

"One of 'em was brought up by an Oferr woman!"

The tone in which he commonized the name to a satiric general term, is not to be written down,
and needed not to be interpreted.

"The other is well enough," he went on, "and contented enough. A doctor's widow, with a little
property, a farm and two children,--her older ones died very young,--up in New Hampshire. I
might spoil her; and the other,--well, you see as I said, I don't know."

"Find out," said Marmaduke Wharne, again.

"People are not found out till they are tried."

"Try 'em!"

Mr. Oldways had been sitting with his head bent, thoughtfully, his eyes looking down, his hands
on the two stiff, old-fashioned arms of his chair. At this last spondaic response from Marmaduke,
he lifted his eyes and eyebrows,--not his head,--and raised himself slightly with his two hands
pressing on the chair arms; the keen glance and the half-movement were impulsively toward his
friend.

"Eh?" said he.

"Try 'em," repeated Marmaduke Wharne. "Give God's way a chance."

Mr. Oldways, seated back in his chair again, looked at him intently; made a little vibration,
as it were, with his body, that moved his head up and down almost imperceptibly, with a kind
of gradual assenting apprehension, and kept utterly silent.

So, their talk being palpably over for this time, Marmaduke Wharne got up presently to go.
They nodded at each other, friendlily, as he looked back from the door.

Left alone, Mr. Titus Oldways turned in his swivel-chair, around to his desk beside which he
was sitting.

"Next of kin?" he repeated to himself. "God's way?--Well! Afterwards is a long time. A man
must give it up somewhere. Everything escheats to the king at last."

And he took a pen in his hand and wrote a letter.

V.

HOW THE NEWS CAME TO HOMESWORTH.

"I wish I lived in the city, and had a best friend," said Hazel Ripwinkley to Diana, as they
sat together on the long, red, sloping kitchen roof under the arches of the willow-tree, hemming
towels for their afternoon "stent." They did this because their mother sat on the shed roof
under the fir, when she was a child, and had told them of it. Imagination is so much greater
than fact, that these children, who had now all that little Frank Shiere had dreamed of with
the tar smell and the gravel stones and the one tree,--who might run free in the wide woods
and up the breezy hillsides,--liked best of all to get out on the kitchen roof and play "old
times," and go back into their mother's dream.

"I wish I lived in a block of houses, and could see across the corner into my best friend's
room when she got up in the morning!"

"And could have that party!" said Diana.

"Think of the clean, smooth streets, with red sidewalks, and people living all along, door
after door! I like things set in rows, and people having places, like the desks at school.
Why, you've got to go way round Sand Hill to get to Elizabeth Ann Dorridon's. I should like
to go up steps, and ring bells!"

"I don't know," said Diana, slowly. "I think birds that build little nests about anywhere in
the cunning, separate places, in the woods, or among the bushes, have the best time."

"Birds, Dine! It ain't birds, it's people! What has that to do with it?"

"I mean I think nests are better than martin-boxes."

"Let's go in and get her to tell us that story. She's in the round room."

The round room was a half ellipse, running in against the curve of the staircase. It was a
bit of a place, with the window at one end, and the bow at the other. It had been Doctor Ripwinkley's
office, and Mrs. Ripwinkley sat there with her work on summer afternoons. The door opened out,
close at the front, upon a great flat stone in an angle, where was also entrance into the hall
by the house-door, at the right hand. The door of the office stood open, and across the stone
one could look down, between a range of lilac bushes and the parlor windows, through a green
door-yard into the street.

"Now, Mother Frank, tell us about the party!"

They called her "Mother Frank" when they wished to be particularly coaxing. They had taken
up their father's name for her, with their own prefix, when they were very little ones, before
he went away and left nobody to call her Frank, every day, any more.

"That same little old story? Won't you ever be tired of it,--you great girls?" asked the mother;
for she had told it to them ever since they were six and eight years old.

"Yes! No, never!" said the children.

For how should they outgrow it? It was a sunny little bit out of their mother's own child-life.
We shall go back to smaller things, one day, maybe, and find them yet more beautiful. It is
the going back, together.

"The same old way?"

"Yes; the very same old way."

"We had little open-work straw hats and muslin pelisses,--your Aunt Laura and I,"--began Mrs.
Ripwinkley, as she had begun all those scores of times before. "Mother put them on for us,--she
dressed us just alike, always,--and told us to take each other's hands, and go up Brier and
down Hickory streets, and stop at all the houses that she named, and that we knew; and we were
to give her love and compliments, and ask the mothers in each house,--Mrs. Dayton, and Mrs.
Holridge (she lived up the long steps), and Mrs. Waldow, and the rest of them, to let Caroline
and Grace and Fanny and Susan, and the rest of them, come at four o'clock, to spend the afternoon
and take tea, if it was convenient."

"O, mother!" said Hazel, "you didn't say that when you asked people, you know."

"O, no!" said Mrs. Ripwinkley. "That was when we went to stop a little while ourselves, without
being asked. Well, it was to please to let them come. And all the ladies were at home, because
it was only ten o'clock; and they all sent their love and compliments, and they were much obliged,
and the little girls would be very happy.

"It was a warm June day; up Brier Street was a steep walk; down Hickory we were glad to keep
on the shady side, and thought it was nice that Mrs. Bemys and Mrs. Waldow lived there. The
strings of our hats were very moist and clinging when we got home, and Laura had a blue mark
under her chin from the green ribbon.

"Mother was in her room, in her white dimity morning gown, with little bows up the front, the
ends trimmed with cambric edging. She took off our hats and our pelisses,--the tight little
sleeves came off wrong side out,--sponged our faces with cool water, and brushed out Laura's
curls. That was the only difference between us. I hadn't any curls, and my hair had to be kept
cropped. Then she went to her upper bureau drawer and took out two little paper boxes.

"'Something has come for Blanche and Clorinda, since you have been gone,' she said, smiling.
'I suppose you have been shopping?' We took the paper boxes, laughing back at her with a happy
understanding. We were used to these little plays of mother's, and she couldn't really surprise
us with her kindnesses. We went and sat down in the window-seat, and opened them as deliberately
and in as grown-up a way as we could. Inside them were two little lace pelerines lined with
rose-colored silk. The boxes had a faint smell of musk. The things were so much better for
coming in boxes! Mother knew that.

"Well, we dressed our dolls, and it was a great long sunshiny forenoon. Mother and Luclarion
had done something in the kitchen, and there was a smell of sweet baking in the house. Every
now and then we sniffed, and looked at each other, and at mother, and laughed. After dinner
we had on our white French calicoes with blue sprigs, and mother said she should take a little
nap, and we might go into the parlor and be ready for our company. She always let us receive
our own company ourselves at first. And exactly at four o'clock the door-bell rang, and they
began to come.

"Caroline and Fanny Dayton had on white cambric dresses, and green kid slippers. That was being
very much dressed, indeed. Lucy Waldow wore a pink lawn, and Grace Holridge a buff French print.
Susan Bemys said her little sister couldn't come because they couldn't find her best shoes.
Her mother thought she had thrown them out of the window.

"When they all got there we began to play 'Lady Fair;' and we had just got all the 'lady fairs,'
one after another, into our ring, and were dancing and singing up and down and round and round,
when the door opened and mother walked in.

"We always thought our mother was the prettiest of any of the girls' mothers. She had such
bright shining hair, and she put it up with shell combs into such little curly puffs. And she
never seemed fussy or old, but she came in among us with such a beautiful, smiling way, as
if she knew beforehand that it was all right, and there was no danger of any mischief, or that
we shouldn't behave well, but she only wanted to see the good time. That day she had on a white
muslin dress with little purple flowers on it, and a bow of purple ribbon right in the side
of her hair. She had a little piece of fine work in her hand, and after she had spoken to all
the little girls and asked them how their mothers were, she went and sat down in one of the
front windows, and made little scollops and eyelets. I remember her long ivory stiletto, with
a loop of green ribbon through the head of it, and the sharp, tiny, big-bowed scissors that
lay in her lap, and the bright, tapering silver thimble on her finger.

"Pretty soon the door opened again, softly; a tray appeared, with Hannah behind it. On the
tray were little glass saucers with confectionery in them; old-fashioned confectionery,--gibraltars,
and colored caraways, and cockles with mottoes. We were in the middle of 'So says the Grand
Mufti,' and Grace Holridge was the Grand Mufti. Hannah went up to her first, as she stood there
alone, and Grace took a saucer and held it up before the row of us, and said, 'Thus says the
Grand Mufti!' and then she bit a red gibraltar, and everybody laughed. She did it so quickly
and so prettily, putting it right into the play. It was good of her not to say, 'So says the
Grand Mufti.' At least we thought so then, though Susan Bemys said it would have been funnier.

"We had a great many plays in those days, and it took a long afternoon to get through with
them. We had not begun to wonder what we should do next, when tea time came, and we went down
into the basement room. It wasn't tea, though; it was milk in little clear, pink mugs, some
that mother only had out for our parties, and cold water in crimped-edge glasses, and little
biscuits, and sponge-cakes, and small round pound-cakes frosted. These were what had smelt
so good in the morning.

"We stood round the table; there was not room for all of us to sit, and mother helped us, and
Hannah passed things round. Susan Bemys took cake three times, and Lucy Waldow opened her eyes
wide, and Fanny Dayton touched me softly under the table.

"After tea mother played and sung some little songs to us; and then she played the 'Fisher's
Hornpipe' and 'Money Musk,' and we danced a little contra-dance. The girls did not all know
cotillons, and some of them had not begun to go to dancing-school. Father came home and had
his tea after we had done ours, and then he came up into the parlor and watched us dancing.
Mr. Dayton came in, too. At about half past eight some of the other fathers called, and some
of the mothers sent their girls, and everybody was fetched away. It was nine o'clock when Laura
and I went to bed, and we couldn't go to sleep until after the clock struck ten, for thinking
and saying what a beautiful time we had had, and anticipating how the girls would talk it all
over next day at school. That," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, when she had finished, "was the kind
of a party we used to have in Boston when I was a little girl. I don't know what the little
girls have now."

"Boston!" said Luclarion, catching the last words as she came in, with her pink cape bonnet
on, from the Homesworth variety and finding store, and post-office. "You'll talk them children
off to Boston, finally, Mrs. Ripwinkley! Nothing ever tugs so at one end, but there's something
tugging at the other; and there's never a hint nor a hearing to anybody, that something more
doesn't turn up concerning it. Here's a letter, Mrs. Ripwinkley!"

Mrs. Ripwinkley took it with some surprise. It was not her sister's handwriting nor Mr. Ledwith's,
on the cover; and she rarely had a letter from them that was posted in Boston, now. They had
been living at a place out of town for several years. Mrs. Ledwith knew better than to give
her letters to her husband for posting. They got lost in his big wallet, and stayed there till
they grew old.

Who should write to Mrs. Ripwinkley, after all these years, from Boston?

She looked up at Luclarion, and smiled. "It didn't take a Solomon," said she, pointing to the
postmark.

"No, nor yet a black smooch, with only four letters plain, on an invelup. 'Taint that, it's
the drift of things. Those girls have got Boston in their minds as hard and fast as they've
got heaven; and I mistrust mightily they'll get there first somehow!"

The girls were out of hearing, as she said this; they had got their story, and gone back to
their red roof and their willow tree.

"Why, Luclarion!" exclaimed Mrs. Ripwinkley, as she drew out and unfolded the letter sheet.
"It's from Uncle Titus Oldways."

"Then he ain't dead," remarked Luclarion, and went away into the kitchen.

     "MY DEAR FRANCES,--I am seventy-eight years old. It is time I
     got acquainted with some of my relations. I've had other work
     to do in the world heretofore (at least I thought I had), and
     so, I believe, have they. But I have a wish now to get you and
     your sister to come and live nearer to me, that we may find out
     whether we really are anything to each other or not. It seems
     natural, I suppose, that we might be; but kinship doesn't all
     run in the veins.

     "I do not ask you to do this with reference to any possible
     intentions of mine that might concern you after my death; my
     wish is to do what is right by you, in return for your
     consenting to my pleasure in the matter, while I am alive. It
     will cost you more to live in Boston than where you do now, and
     I have no business to expect you to break up and come to a new
     home unless I can make it an object to you in some way. You can
     do some things for your children here that you could not do in
     Homesworth. I will give you two thousand dollars a year to live
     on, and secure the same to you if I die. I have a house here in
     Aspen Street, not far from where I live myself, which I will
     give to either of you that it may suit. That you can settle
     between you when you come. It is rather a large house, and Mrs.
     Ledwith's family is larger, I think, than yours. The estate is
     worth ten thousand dollars, and I will give the same sum to the
     one who prefers, to put into a house elsewhere. I wish you to
     reckon this as all you are ever to expect from me, except the
     regard I am willing to believe I may come to have for you. I
     shall look to hear from you by the end of the week.

                "I remain, yours truly,

                           "TITUS OLDWAYS."

"Luclarion!" cried Mrs. Ripwinkley, with excitement, "come here and help me think!"

"Only four days to make my mind up in," she said again, when Luclarion had read the letter through.

Luclarion folded it and gave it back.

"It won't take God four days to think," she answered quietly; "and you can ask Him in four
minutes. You and I can talk afterwards." And Luclarion got up and went away a second time into
the kitchen.

That night, after Diana and Hazel were gone to bed, their mother and Luclarion Grapp had some
last words about it, sitting by the white-scoured kitchen table, where Luclarion had just done
mixing bread and covered it away for rising. Mrs. Ripwinkley was apt to come out and talk things
over at this time of the kneading. She could get more from Luclarion then than at any other
opportunity. Perhaps that was because Miss Grapp could not walk off from the bread-trough;
or it might be that there was some sympathy between the mixing of her flour and yeast into
a sweet and lively perfection, and the bringing of her mental leaven wholesomely to bear.

"It looks as if it were meant, Luclarion," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, at last. "And just think what
it will be for the children."

"I guess it's meant fast enough," replied Luclarion. "But as for what it will be for the children,--why,
that's according to what you all make of it. And that's the stump."

Luclarion Grapp was fifty-four years old; but her views of life were precisely the same that
they had been at twenty-eight.

VI.

AND.

There is a piece of Z----, just over the river, that they call "And."

It began among the school-girls; Barbara Holabird had christened it, with the shrewdness and
mischief of fourteen years old. She said the "and-so-forths" lived there.

It was a little supplementary neighborhood; an after-growth, coming up with the railroad improvements,
when they got a freight station established on that side for the East Z---- mills. "After Z----,
what should it be but 'And?'" Barbara Holabird wanted to know. The people who lived there called
it East Square; but what difference did that make?

It was two miles Boston-ward from Z---- centre, where the down trains stopped first; that was
five minutes gained in the time between it and the city. Land was cheap at first, and sure
to come up in value; so there were some streets laid out at right angles, and a lot of houses
put up after a pattern, as if they had all been turned out of blanc-mange moulds, and there
was "East Square." Then people began by-and-by to build for themselves, and a little variety
and a good deal of ambition came in. They had got to French roofs now; this was just before
the day of the multitudinous little paper collar-boxes with beveled covers, that are set down
everywhere now, and look as if they could be lifted up by the chimneys, any time, and be carried
off with a thumb and finger. Two and a half story houses, Mansarded, looked grand; and the
East Square people thought nothing slight of themselves, though the "old places" and the real
Z---- families were all over on West Hill.

Mrs. Megilp boarded in And for the summer.

"Since Oswald had been in business she couldn't go far from the cars, you know; and Oswald
had a boat on the river, and he and Glossy enjoyed that so much. Besides, she had friends in
Z----, which made it pleasant; and she was tired, for her part, of crowds and fashion. All
she wanted was a quiet country place. She knew the Goldthwaites and the Haddens; she had met
them one year at Jefferson."

Mrs. Megilp had found out that she could get larger rooms in And than she could have at the
mountains or the sea-shore, and at half the price; but this she did not mention. Yet there
was nothing shabby in it, except her carefully not mentioning it.

Mrs. Megilp was Mrs. Grant Ledwith's chief intimate and counselor. She was a good deal the
elder; that was why it was mutually advantageous. Grant Ledwith was one of the out-in-the-world,
up-to-the-times men of the day; the day in which everything is going, and everybody that is
in active life has, somehow or other, all that is going. Grant Ledwith got a good salary, an
inflated currency salary; and he spent it all. His daughters were growing up, and they were
stylish and pretty; Mrs. Megilp took a great interest in Agatha and Florence Ledwith, and was
always urging their mother to "do them justice." "Agatha and Florence were girls who had a
right to every advantage." Mrs. Megilp was almost old enough to be Laura Ledwith's mother;
she had great experience, and knowledge of the world; and she sat behind Laura's conscience
and drove it tandem with her inclination.

Per contra, it was nice for Mrs. Megilp, who was a widow, and whose income did not stretch
with the elasticity of the times, to have friends who lived like the Ledwiths, and who always
made her welcome; it was a good thing for Glossy to be so fond of Agatha and Florence, and
to have them so fond of her. "She needed young society," her mother said. One reason that Glossy
Megilp needed young society might be in the fact that she herself was twenty-six.

Mrs. Megilp had advised the Ledwiths to buy a house in Z----. "It was just far enough not to
be suburban, but to have a society of its own; and there was excellent society in Z----, everybody
knew. Boston was hard work, nowadays; the distances were getting to be so great." Up to the
West and South Ends,--the material distances,--she meant to be understood to say; but there
was an inner sense to Mrs. Megilp's utterances, also.

"One might as well be quite out of town; and then it was always something, even in such city
connection as one might care to keep up, to hail from a well-recognized social independency;
to belong to Z---- was a standing, always. It wasn't like going to Forest Dell, or Lakegrove,
or Bellair; cheap little got-up places with fancy names, that were strung out on the railroads
like French gilt beads on a chain."

But for all that, Mrs. Ledwith had only got into "And;" and Mrs. Megilp knew it.

Laura did not realize it much; she had bowing and speaking acquaintance with the Haddens and
the Hendees, and even with the Marchbankses, over on West Hill; and the Goldthwaites and the
Holabirds, down in the town, she knew very well. She did not care to come much nearer; she
did not want to be bound by any very stringent and exclusive social limits; it was a bother
to keep up to all the demands of such a small, old-established set. Mrs. Hendee would not notice,
far less be impressed by the advent of her new-style Brussels carpet with a border, or her
full, fresh, Nottingham lace curtains, or the new covering of her drawing-room set with cuir-colored
terry. Mrs. Tom Friske and Mrs. Philgry, down here at East Square, would run in, and appreciate,
and admire, and talk it all over, and go away perhaps breaking the tenth commandment amiably
in their hearts.

Mrs. Ledwith's nerves had extended since we saw her as a girl; they did not then go beyond
the floating ends of her blue or rose-colored ribbons, or, at furthest, the tip of her jaunty
laced sunshade; now they ramified,--for life still grows in some direction,--to her chairs,
and her china, and her curtains, and her ruffled pillow-shams. Also, savingly, to her children's
"suits," and party dresses, and pic-nic hats, and double button gloves. Savingly; for there
is a leaven of grace in mother-care, even though it be expended upon these. Her friend, Mrs.
Inchdeepe, in Helvellyn Park, with whom she dined when she went shopping in Boston, had nothing
but her modern improvements and her furniture. "My house is my life," she used to say, going
round with a Canton crape duster, touching tenderly carvings and inlayings and gildings.

Mrs. Megilp was spending the day with Laura Ledwith; Glossy was gone to town, and thence down
to the sea-shore, with some friends.

Mrs. Megilp spent a good many days with Laura. She had large, bright rooms at her boarding-house,
but then she had very gristly veal pies and thin tapioca puddings for dinner; and Mrs. Megilp's
constitution required something more generous. She was apt to happen in at this season, when
Laura had potted pigeons. A little bird told her; a dozen little birds, I mean, with their
legs tied together in a bunch; for she could see the market wagon from her window, when it
turned up Mr. Ledwith's avenue.

Laura had always the claret pitcher on her dinner table, too; and claret and water, well-sugared,
went deliciously with the savory stew.

They were up-stairs now, in Laura's chamber; the bed and sofa were covered with silk and millinery;
Laura was looking over the girls' "fall things;" there was a smell of sweet marjoram and thyme
and cloves, and general richness coming up from the kitchen; there was a bland sense of the
goodness of Providence in Mrs. Megilp's--no, not heart, for her heart was not very hungry;
but in her eyes and nostrils.

She was advising Mrs. Ledwith to take Desire and Helena's two green silks and make them over
into one for Helena.

"You can get two whole back breadths then, by piecing it up under the sash; and you can't have
all those gores again; they are quite done with. Everybody puts in whole breadths now. There's
just as much difference in the way of goring a skirt, as there is between gores and straight
selvages."

"They do hang well, though; they have such a nice slope."

"Yes,--but the stripes and the seams! Those tell the story six rods off; and then there must
be sashes, or postillions, or something; they don't make anything without them; there isn't
any finish to a round waist unless you have something behind."

"They wore belts last year, and I bought those expensive gilt buckles. I'm sure they used to
look sweetly. But there! a fashion doesn't last nowadays while you're putting a thing on and
walking out of the house!"

"And don't put in more than three plaits," pursued Mrs. Megilp, intent on the fate of the green
silks. "Everything is gathered; you see that is what requires the sashes; round waists and
gathers have a queer look without."

"If you once begin to alter, you've got to make all over," said Mrs. Ledwith, a little fractiously,
putting the scissors in with unwilling fingers. She knew there was a good four days' work before
her, and she was quick with her needle, too.

"Never mind; the making over doesn't cost anything; you turn off work so easily; and then you've
got a really stylish thing."

"But with all the ripping and remodelling, I don't get time to turn round, myself, and live!
It is all fall work, and spring work, and summer work and winter work. One drive rushes pell-mell
right over another. There isn't time enough to make things and have them; the good of them,
I mean."

"The girls get it; we have to live in our children," said Mrs. Megilp, self-renouncingly. "I
can never rest until Glossy is provided with everything; and you know, Laura, I am obliged
to contrive."

Mrs. Megilp and her daughter Glaucia spent about a thousand dollars a year, between them, on
their dress. In these days, this is a limited allowance--for the Megilps. But Mrs. Megilp was
a woman of strict pecuniary principle; the other fifteen hundred must pay all the rest; she
submitted cheerfully to the Divine allotment, and punctually made the two ends meet. She will
have this to show, when the Lord of these servants cometh and reckoneth with them, and that
man who has been also in narrow circumstances, brings his nicely kept talent out of his napkin.

Desire Ledwith, a girl of sixteen, spoke suddenly from a corner where she sat with a book,--

"I do wonder who 'they' are, mamma!"

"Who?" said Mrs. Ledwith, half rising from her chair, and letting some breadths of silk slide
down upon the floor from her lap, as she glanced anxiously from the window down the avenue.
She did not want any company this morning.

"Not that, mamma; I don't mean anybody coming. The 'theys' that wear, and don't wear, things;
the theys you have to be just like, and keep ripping and piecing for."

"You absurd child!" exclaimed Mrs. Ledwith, pettishly. "To make me spill a whole lapful of
work for that! They? Why, everybody, of course."

"Everybody complains of them, though. Jean Friske says her mother is all discouraged and worn
out. There isn't a thing they had last year that won't have to be made over this, because they
put in a breadth more behind, and they only gore side seams. And they don't wear black capes
or cloth sacks any more with all kinds of dresses; you must have suits, clear through. It seems
to me 'they' is a nuisance. And if it's everybody, we must be part, of it. Why doesn't somebody
stop?"

"Desire, I wish you'd put away your book, and help, instead of asking silly questions. You
can't make the world over, with 'why don'ts?'"

"I'll rip," said Desire, with a slight emphasis; putting her book down, and coming over for
a skirt and a pair of scissors. "But you know I'm no good at putting together again. And about
making the world over, I don't know but that might be as easy as making over all its clothes,
I'd as lief try, of the two."

Desire was never cross or disagreeable; she was only "impracticable," her mother said. "And
besides that, she didn't know what she really did want. She was born hungry and asking, with
those sharp little eyes, and her mouth always open while she was a baby. 'It was a sign,' the
nurse said, when she was three weeks old. And then the other sign,--that she should have to
be called 'Desire!'"

Mrs. Megilp--for Mrs. Megilp had been in office as long ago as that--had suggested ways of
getting over or around the difficulty, when Aunt Desire had stipulated to have the baby named
for her, and had made certain persuasive conditions.

"There's the pretty French turn you might give it,--'Desirée.' Only one more 'e,' and an accent.
That is so sweet, and graceful, and distinguished!"

"But Aunt Desire won't have the name twisted. It is to be real, plain Desire, or not at all."

Mrs. Megilp had shrugged her shoulders.

"Well, of course it can be that, to christen by, and marry by, and be buried by. But between
whiles,--people pick up names,--you'll see!"

Mrs. Megilp began to call her "Daisy" when she was two years old. Nobody could help what Mrs.
Megilp took a fancy to call her by way of endearment, of course; and Daisy she was growing
to be in the family, when one day, at seven years old, she heard Mrs. Megilp say to her mother,--

"I don't see but that you've all got your Desire, after all. The old lady is satisfied; and
away up there in Hanover, what can it signify to her? The child is 'Daisy,' practically, now,
as long as she lives."

The sharp, eager little gray eyes, so close together in the high, delicate head, glanced up
quickly at speaker and hearer.

"What old lady, mamma, away up in Hanover?"

"Your Aunt Desire, Daisy, whom you were named for. She lives in Hanover. You are to go and
see her there, this summer."

"Will she call me Daisy?"

The little difficulty suggested in this question had singularly never occurred to Mrs. Ledwith
before. Miss Desire Ledwith never came down to Boston; there was no danger at home.

"No. She is old-fashioned, and doesn't like pet names. She will call you Desire. That is your
name, you know."

"Would it signify if she thought you called me Daisy?" asked the child frowning half absently
over her doll, whose arm she was struggling to force into rather a tight sleeve of her own
manufacture.

"Well, perhaps she might not exactly understand. People always went by their names when she
was a child, and now hardly anybody does. She was very particular about having you called for
her, and you are, you know. I always write 'Desire Ledwith' in all your books, and--well, I
always shall write it so, and so will you. But you can be Daisy when we make much of you here
at home, just as Florence is Flossie."

"No, I can't," said the little girl, very decidedly, getting up and dropping her doll. "Aunt
Desire, away up in Hanover, is thinking all the time that there is a little Desire Ledwith
growing up down here. I don't mean to have her cheated. I'm going to went by my name, as she
did. Don't call me Daisy any more, all of you; for I shan't come!"

The gray eyes sparkled; the whole little face scintillated, as it were. Desire Ledwith had
a keen, charged little face; and when something quick and strong shone through it, it was as
if somewhere behind it there had been struck fire.

She was true to that through all the years after; going to school with Mabels and Ethels and
Graces and Ediths,--not a girl she knew but had a pretty modern name,--and they all wondering
at that stiff little "Desire" of hers that she would go by. When she was twelve years old,
the old lady up in Hanover had died, and left her a gold watch, large and old-fashioned, which
she could only keep on a stand in her room,--a good solid silver tea-set, and all her spoons,
and twenty-five shares in the Hanover Bank.

Mrs. Megilp called her Daisy, with gentle inadvertence, one day after that. Desire lifted her
eyes slowly at her, with no other reply in her face, or else.

"You might please your mother now, I think," said Mrs. Megilp. "There is no old lady to be
troubled by it."

"A promise isn't ever dead, Mrs. Megilp," said Desire, briefly. "I shall keep our words."

"After all," Mrs. Megilp said privately to the mother, "there is something quietly aristocratic
in an old, plain, family name. I don't know that it isn't good taste in the child. Everybody
understands that it was a condition, and an inheritance."

Mrs. Megilp had taken care of that. She was watchful for the small impressions she could make
in behalf of her particular friends. She carried about with her a little social circumference
in which all was preëminently as it should be.

But,--as I would say if you could not see it for yourself--this is a digression. We will go
back again.

"If it were any use!" said Desire, shaking out the deep plaits as she unfastened them from
the band. "But you're only a piece of everybody after all. You haven't anything really new
or particular to yourself, when you've done. And it takes up so much time. Last year, this
was so pretty! Isn't anything actually pretty in itself, or can't they settle what it is? I
should think they had been at it long enough."

"Fashions never were so graceful as they are this minute," said Mrs. Megilp. "Of course it
is art, like everything else, and progress. The world is getting educated to a higher refinement
in it, every day. Why, it's duty, child!" she continued, exaltedly. "Think what the world would
be if nobody cared. We ought to make life beautiful. It's meant to be. There's not only no
virtue in ugliness, but almost no virtue with it, I think. People are more polite and good-natured
when they are well dressed and comfortable."

"That's dress, too, though," said Desire, sententiously. "You've got to stay at home four days,
and rip, and be tired, and cross, and tried-on-to, and have no chance to do anything else,
before you can put it all on and go out and be good-natured and bland, and help put the beautiful
face on the world, one day. I don't believe it's political economy."

"Everybody doesn't have to do it for themselves. Really, when I hear people blamed for dress
and elegance,--why, the very ones who have the most of it are those who sacrifice the least
time to it. They just go and order what they want, and there's the end of it. When it comes
home, they put it on, and it might as well be a flounced silk as a plain calico."

"But we do have to think, Mrs. Megilp. And work and worry. And then we can't turn right round
in the things we know every stitch of and have bothered over from beginning to end, and just
be lilies of the field!"

"A great many people do have to wash their own dishes, and sweep, and scour; but that is no
reason it ought not to be done. I always thought it was rather a pity that was said, just so,"
Mrs. Megilp proceeded, with a mild deprecation of the Scripture. "There is toiling and spinning;
and will be to the end of time, for some of us."

"There's cauliflower brought for dinner, Mrs. Ledwith," said Christina, the parlor girl, coming
in. "And Hannah says it won't go with the pigeons. Will she put it on the ice for to-morrow?"

"I suppose so," said Mrs. Ledwith, absently, considering a breadth that had a little hitch
in it. "Though what we shall have to-morrow I'm sure I don't know," she added, rousing up.
"I wish Mr. Ledwith wouldn't send home the first thing he sees, without any reference."

"And here's the milkman's bill, and a letter," continued Christina, laying them down on a chair
beside her mistress, and then departing.

Great things come into life so easily, when they do come, right alongside of milk-bills and
cabbages! And yet one may wait so long sometimes for anything to happen but cabbages!

The letter was in a very broad, thick envelope, and sealed with wax.

Mrs. Ledwith looked at it curiously before she opened it. She did not receive many letters.
She had very little time for correspondence. It was addressed to "Mrs. Laura Ledwith." That
was odd and unusual, too.

Mrs. Megilp glanced at her over the tortoise-shell rims of her eye-glasses, but sat very quiet,
lest she should delay the opening. She would like to know what could be in that very business-like
looking despatch, and Laura would be sure to tell her. It must be something pretty positive,
one way or another; it was no common-place negative communication. Laura might have had property
left her. Mrs. Megilp always thought of possibilities like that.

When Laura Ledwith had unfolded the large commercial sheet, and glanced down the open lines
of square, upright characters, whose purport could be taken in at sight, like print, she turned
very red with a sudden excitement. Then all the color dropped away, and there was nothing in
her face but blank, pale, intense surprise.

"It is a most wonderful thing!" said she, at last, slowly; and her breath came like a gasp
with her words. "My great-uncle, Mr. Oldways."

She spoke those four words as if from them Mrs. Megilp could understand everything.

Mrs. Megilp thought she did.

"Ah! Gone?" she asked, pathetically.

"Gone! No, indeed!" said Mrs. Ledwith. "He wrote the letter. He wants me to come; me, and all
of us,--to Boston, to live; and to get acquainted with him."

"My dear," said Mrs. Megilp, with the promptness and benignity of a Christian apostle, "it's
your duty to go."

"And he offers me a house, and two thousand dollars a year."

"My dear," said Mrs. Megilp, "it is emphatically your duty to go."

All at once something strange came over Laura Ledwith. She crumpled the letter tight in her
hands with a clutch of quick excitement, and began to choke with a little sob, and to laugh
at the same time.

"Don't give way!" cried Mrs. Megilp, coming to her and giving her a little shake and a slap.
"If you do once you will again, and you're not hystericky!"

"He's sent for Frank, too. Frank and I will be together again in dear old Boston! But--we can't
be children and sit on the shed any more; and--it isn't dear old Boston, either!"

And then Laura gave right up, and had a good cry for five minutes. After that she felt better,
and asked Mrs. Megilp how she thought a house in Spiller Street would do.

But she couldn't rip any more of those breadths that morning.

Agatha and Florence came in from some calls at the Goldthwaites and the Haddens, and the news
was told, and they had their bonnets to take off, and the dinner-bell rang, and the smell of
the spicy pigeon-stew came up the stairs, all together. And they went down, talking fast; and
one said "house," and another "carpets," and another "music and German;" and Desire, trailing
a breadth of green silk in her hand that she had never let go since the letter was read, cried
out, "oratorios!" And nobody quite knew what they were going down stairs for, or had presence
of mind to realize the pigeons, or help each other or themselves properly, when they got there!
Except Mrs. Megilp, who was polite and hospitable to them all, and picked two birds in the
most composed and elegant manner.

When the dessert was put upon the table, and Christina, confusedly enlightened as to the family
excitement, and excessively curious, had gone away into the kitchen, Mrs. Ledwith said to Mrs.
Megilp,--

"I'm not sure I should fancy Spiller Street, after all; it's a sort of a corner. Westmoreland
Street or Helvellyn Park might be nice. I know people down that way,--Mrs. Inchdeepe."

"Mrs. Inchdeepe isn't exactly 'people,'" said Mrs. Megilp, in a quiet way that implied more
than grammar. "Don't get into 'And' in Boston, Laura!--With such an addition to your income,
and what your uncle gives you toward a house, I don't see why you might not think of Republic
Avenue."

"We shall have plenty of thinking to do about everything," said Laura.

"Mamma," said Agatha, insinuatingly, "I'm thinking, already; about that rose-pink paper for
my room. I'm glad now I didn't have it here."

Agatha had been restless for white lace, and rose-pink, and a Brussels carpet ever since her
friend Zarah Thoole had come home from Europe and furnished a morning-room.

All this time Mr. Grant Ledwith, quite unconscious of the impending changes with which his
family were so far advanced in imagination, was busy among bales and samples in Devonshire
Street. It got to be an old story by the time the seven o'clock train was in, and he reached
home. It was almost as if it had all happened a year ago, and they had been waiting for him
to come home from Australia.

There was so much to explain to him that it was really hard to make him understand, and to
bring him up to the point from which they could go on together.

VII.

WAKING UP.

The Ledwiths took apartments in Boston for a month. They packed away the furniture they wanted
to keep for upper rooms, in the attics of their house at Z----. They had an auction of all
the furniture of their drawing-room, dining-room, library, and first floor of sleeping-rooms.
Then they were to let their house. Meanwhile, one was to be fixed upon and fitted up in Boston.
In all this Mrs. Megilp advised, invaluably.

"It's of no use to move things," she said. "Three removes are as bad as a fire; and nothing
ever fits in to new places. Old wine and new bottles, you know! Clear all off with a country
auction. Everybody comes, and they all fight for everything. Things bring more than their original
cost. Then you've nothing to do but order according to your taste."

Mr. Oldways had invited both his nieces to his own house on their arrival. But here again Mrs.
Megilp advised,--so judiciously.

"There are too many of you; it would be a positive infliction. And then you'll have all your
running about and planning and calculating to do, and the good old gentleman would think he
had pulled half Boston down about his ears. Your sister can go there; it would be only generous
and thoughtful to give way to her. There are only three of them, and they are strange, you
know, to every thing, and wouldn't know which way to turn. I can put you in the way of rooms
at the Bellevue, exactly the thing, for a hundred and fifty a month. No servants, you see;
meals at the restaurant, and very good, too. The Wedringtons are to give them up unexpectedly;
going to Europe; poor Mrs. Wedrington is so out of health. And about the house; don't decide
in a hurry; see what your uncle says, and your sister. It's very likely she'll prefer the Aspen
Street house; and it would be out of the way for you. Still it is not to be refused, you know;
of course it is very desirable in many respects; roomy, old-fashioned, and a garden. I think
your sister will like those things; they're what she has been used to. If she does, why it's
all comfortably settled, and nobody refuses. It is so ungracious to appear to object; a gift
horse, you know."

"Not to be refused; only by no means to be taken; masterly inactivity till somebody else is
hooked; and then somebody else is to be grateful for the preference. I wish Mrs. Megilp wouldn't
shine things up so; and that mother wouldn't go to her to black all her boots!"

Desire said this in secret, indignant discomfort, to Helena, the fourth in the family, her
chum-sister. Helena did very well to talk to; she heard anything; then she pranced round the
room and chaffed the canary.

"Chee! chee! chee! chiddle, iddle, iddle, iddle, e-e-ee! Where do you keep all your noise and
your breath? You're great, aren't you? You do that to spite people that have to work up one
note at a time. You don't take it in away down under your belt, do you? You're not particular
about that. You don't know much, after all. You don't know how you do it. You aren't learning
of Madame Caroletti. And you haven't learned two quarters, any way. You were only just born
last spring. Set up! Tr-r-r-r-e-e-ee! I can do that myself. I don't believe you've got an octave
in you. Poh!"

Mrs. Ripwinkley came down from the country with a bonnet on that had a crown, and with not
a particle of a chignon. When she was married, twenty-five years before, she wore a French
twist,--her hair turned up in waves from her neck as prettily as it did away from her forehead,--and
two thick coiled loops were knotted and fastened gracefully at the top. She had kept on twisting
her hair so, all these years; and the rippling folds turned naturally under her fingers into
their places. The color was bright still, and it had not thinned. Over her brows it parted
richly, with no fuzz or crimp; but a sweet natural wreathing look that made her face young.
Mrs. Ledwith had done hers over slate-pencils till she had burned it off; and now tied on a
friz, that came low down, for fashion's sake, and left visible only a little bunch of puckers
between her eyebrows and the crowsfeet at the corners. The back of her head was weighted down
by an immense excrescence in a bag. Behind her ears were bare places. Mrs. Ledwith began to
look old-young. And a woman cannot get into a worse stage of looks than that. Still, she was
a showy woman--a good exponent of the reigning style; and she was handsome--she and her millinery--of
an evening, or in the street.

When I began that last paragraph I meant to tell you what else Mrs. Ripwinkley brought with
her, down out of the country and the old times; but hair takes up a deal of room. She brought
down all her dear old furniture. That is, it came after her in boxes, when she had made up
her mind to take the Aspen Street house.

"Why, that's the sofa Oliver used to lie down on when he came home tired from his patients,
and that's the rocking-chair I nursed my babies in; and this is the old oak table we've sat
round three times a day, the family of us growing and thinning, as the time went on, all through
these years. It's like a communion table, now, Laura. Of course such things had to come."

This was what she answered, when Laura ejaculated her amazement at her having brought "old
Homesworth truck" to Boston.

"You see it isn't the walls that make the home; we can go away from them and not break our
hearts, so long as our own goes with us. The little things that we have used, and that have
grown around us with our living,--they are all of living that we can handle and hold on to;
and if I went to Spitzbergen, I should take as many of them as I could."

The Aspen Street house just suited Mrs. Ripwinkley, and Diana, and Hazel.

In the first place, it was wooden; built side to the street, so that you went up a little paved
walk, in a shade of trees, to get to the door; and then the yard, on the right hand side as
you came in, was laid out in narrow walks between borders of blossoming plants. There were
vines against the brick end of the next building,--creepers and morning-glories, and white
and scarlet runners; and a little martin-box was set upon a pole in the still, farther corner.

The rooms of the house were low, but large; and some of the windows had twelve-paned sashes,--twenty-four
to a window. Mrs. Ripwinkley was charmed with these also. They were like the windows at Mile Hill.

Mrs. Ledwith, although greatly relieved by her sister's prompt decision for the house which
she did not want, felt it in her conscience to remonstrate a little.

"You have just come down from the mountains, Frank, after your twenty-five years' sleep; you've
seen nothing by and by you will think differently. This house is fearfully old-fashioned, fearfully;
and it's away down here on the wrong side of the hill. You can never get up over Summit Street
from here."

"We are used to hills, and walking."

"But I mean--that isn't all. There are other things you won't be able to get over. You'll never
shake off Aspen Street dust,--you nor the children."

"I don't think it is dusty. It is quiet, and sheltered, and clean. I like it ever so much,"
said Mrs. Ripwinkley.

"O, dear, you don't understand in the least! It's wicked to let you go on so! You poor, dear,
simple little old soul!"

"Never mind," said Mrs. Megilp. "It's all well enough for the present. It pleases the old gentleman,
you know; and after all he's done, he ought to be pleased. One of you should certainly be in
his neighborhood. He has been here from time immemorial; and any place grows respectable by
staying in it long enough--from choice. Nobody will wonder at Mrs. Ripwinkley's coming here
at his request. And when she does move, you see, she will know exactly what she is about."

"I almost doubt if she ever will know what she is about," said Laura.

"In that case,--well,"--said Mrs. Megilp, and stopped, because it really was not in the least
needful to say more.

Mrs. Megilp felt it judicious, for many reasons, that Mrs. Ripwinkley should he hidden away
for awhile, to get that mountain sleep out of her eyes, if it should prove possible; just as
we rub old metal with oil and put it by till the rust comes off.

The Ledwiths decided upon a house in Shubarton Place that would not seem quite like taking
old Uncle Titus's money and rushing away with it as far as city limits would allow; and Laura
really did wish to have the comfort of her sister's society, in a cozy way, of mornings, up
in her room; that was her chief idea about it. There were a good many times and things in which
she scarcely expected much companionship from Frank. She would not have said even to herself,
that Frank was rusty; and she would do her faithful and good-natured best to rub her up; but
there was an instinct with her of the congruous and the incongruous; and she would not do her
Bath-brick polishing out on the public promenade.

They began by going together to the carpet stores and the paper warehouses; but they ended
in detailing themselves for separate work; their ideas clashed ridiculously, and perpetually
confused each other. Frank remembered loyally her old brown sofa and chairs; she would not
have gay colors to put them out of countenance; for even if she re-covered them, she said they
should have the same old homey complexion. So she chose a fair, soft buff, with a pattern of
brown leaves, for her parlor paper; Mrs. Ledwith, meanwhile, plunging headlong into glories
of crimson and garnet and gold. Agatha had her blush pink, in panels, with heart-of-rose borders,
set on with delicate gilt beadings; you would have thought she was going to put herself up,
in a fancy-box, like a French mouchoir or a bonbon.

"Why don't you put your old brown things all together in an up-stairs room, and call it Mile
Hill? You could keep it for old times' sake, and sit there mornings; the house is big enough;
and then have furniture like other people's in the parlor?"

"You see it wouldn't be me." said Mrs. Ripwinkley, simply.

"They keep saying it 'looks,' and 'it looks,'" said Diana to her mother, at home. "Why must
everything look somehow?"

"And everybody, too," said Hazel. "Why, when we meet any one in the street that Agatha and
Florence know, the minute they have gone by they say, 'She didn't look well to-day,' or, 'How
pretty she did look in that new hat!' And after the great party they went to at that Miss Hitchler's,
they never told a word about it except how girls 'looked.' I wonder what they did, or where
the good time was. Seems to me people ain't living,--they are only just looking; or is this
the same old Boston that you told about, and where are the real folks, mother?"

"We shall find them," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, cheerily; "and the real of these, too, when the
outsides are settled. In the meantime, we'll make our house say, and not look. Say something
true, of course. Things won't say anything else, you see; if you try to make them, they don't
speak out; they only stand in a dumb show and make faces."

"That's looking!" said Hazel. "Now I know."

"How those children do grow!" said Mrs. Ripwinkley, as they went off together. "Two months
ago they were sitting out on the kitchen roof, and coming to me to hear the old stories!"

"Transplantin'," said Luclarion. "That's done it."

At twelve and fourteen, Hazel and Diana could be simple as birds,--simpler yet, as human children
waiting for all things,--in their country life and their little dreams of the world. Two months'
contact with people and things in a great city had started the life that was in them, so that
it showed what manner of growth it was to be of.

And little Hazel Ripwinkley had got hold already of the small end of a very large problem.

But she could not make it out that this was the same old Boston that her mother had told about,
or where the nice neighbors were that would be likely to have little tea-parties for their
children.

VIII.

EAVESDROPPING IN ASPEN STREET.

Some of the old builders,--not the very old ones, for they built nothing but rope-walks down
behind the hill,--but some of those who began to go northwest from the State House to live,
made a pleasant group of streets down there on the level stretching away to the river, and
called them by fresh, fragrant, country-suggesting names. Names of trees and fields and gardens,
fruits and blossoms; and they built houses with gardens around them. In between the blocks
were deep, shady places; and the smell of flowers was tossed back and forth by summer winds
between the walls. Some nice old people stayed on there, and a few of their descendants stay
on there still, though they are built in closely now, for the most part, and coarse, common
things have much intruded, and Summit Street overshadows them with its palaces.

Here and there a wooden house, set back a little, like this of the Ripwinkleys in Aspen Street,
gives you a feeling of Boston in the far back times, as you go by; and here and there, if you
could get into the life of the neighborhood, you might perhaps find a household keeping itself
almost untouched with change, though there has been such a rush and surge for years up and
over into the newer and prouder places.

At any rate, Titus Oldways lived here in Greenley Street; and he owned the Aspen Street house,
and another over in Meadow Place, and another in Field Court. He meant to stretch his control
over them as long as he could, and keep them for families; therefore he valued them at such
rates as they would bring for dwellings; he would not sell or lease them for any kind of "improvements;"
he would not have their little door-yards choked up, or their larger garden spaces destroyed,
while he could help it.

Round in Orchard Street lived Miss Craydocke. She was away again, now, staying a little while
with the Josselyns in New York. Uncle Titus told Mrs. Ripwinkley that when Miss Craydocke came
back it would be a neighborhood, and they could go round; now it was only back and forth between
them and him and Rachel Froke. There were other people, too, but they would be longer finding
them out. "You'll know Miss Craydocke as soon as you see her; she is one of those you always
seem to have seen before."

Now Uncle Titus would not have said this to everybody; not even if everybody had been his niece,
and had come to live beside him.

Orchard Street is wide and sunny and pleasant; the river air comes over it and makes it sweet;
and Miss Craydocke's is a big, generous house, of which she only uses a very little part herself,
because she lets the rest to nice people who want pleasant rooms and can't afford to pay much
rent; an old gentleman who has had a hard time in the world, but has kept himself a gentleman
through it all, and his little cheery old lady-wife who puts her round glasses on and stitches
away at fine women's under-garments and flannel embroideries, to keep things even, have the
two very best rooms; and a clergyman's widow, who copies for lawyers, and writes little stories
for children, has another; and two orphan sisters who keep school have another; and Miss Craydocke
calls her house the Beehive, and buzzes up and down in it, and out and in, on little "seeing-to"
errands of care and kindness all day long, as never any queen-bee did in any beehive before,
but in a way that makes her more truly queen than any sitting in the middle cell of state to
be fed on royal jelly. Behind the Beehive, is a garden, as there should be; great patches of
lily-of-the valley grow there that Miss Craydocke ties up bunches from in the spring and gives
away to little children, and carries into all the sick rooms she knows of, and the poor places.
I always think of those lilies of the valley when I think of Miss Craydocke. It seems somehow
as if they were blooming about her all the year through; and so they are, perhaps, invisibly.
The other flowers come in their season; the crocuses have been done with first of all; the
gay tulips and the snowballs have made the children glad when they stopped at the gate and
got them, going to school. Miss Craydocke is always out in her garden at school-time. By and
by there are the tall white lilies, standing cool and serene in the July heats; then Miss Craydocke
is away at the mountains, pressing ferns and drying grasses for winter parlors; but there is
somebody on duty at the garden dispensary always, and there are flower-pensioners who know
they may come in and take the gracious toll.

Late in the autumn, the nasturtiums and verbenas and marigolds are bright; and the asters quill
themselves into the biggest globes they can, of white and purple and rose, as if it were to
make the last glory the best, and to do the very utmost of the year. Then the chrysanthemums
go into the house and bloom there for Christmas-time.

There is nothing else like Miss Craydocke's house and garden, I do believe, in all the city
of the Three Hills. It is none too big for her, left alone with it, the last of her family;
the world is none too big for her; she is glad to know it is all there. She has a use for everything
as fast as it comes, and a work to do for everybody, as fast as she finds them out.

It was a gray, gusty morning. It had not set in to rain continuously; but the wind wrung handfuls
of drops suddenly from the clouds, and flung them against the panes and into the wayfarers' faces.

Over in the house opposite the Ripwinkley's, at the second story windows, sat two busy young
persons. Hazel, sitting at her window, in "mother's room," where each had a corner, could see
across; and had got into the way of innocent watching. Up in Homesworth, she had used to watch
the robins in the elm-trees; here, there was human life, in little human nests, all about her.

"It's the same thing, mother," she would say, "isn't it, now? Don't you remember in that book
of the 'New England Housekeeper,' that you used to have, what the woman said about the human
nature of the beans? It's in beans, and birds, and bird's nests; and folks, and folks' nests.
It don't make much difference. It's just snugness, and getting along. And it's so nice to see!"

Hazel put her elbows up on the window-sill, and looked straight over into that opposite room,
undisguisedly.

The young man, in one window, said to his sister in the other, at the same moment,--

"Our company's come! There's that bright little girl again!"

And the sister said, "Well, it's pretty much all the company we can take in! She brings her
own seat and her own window; and she doesn't interrupt. It's just the kind for us, Kentie!"

"She's writing,--copying something,--music, it looks like; see it there, set up against the
shutter. She always goes out with a music roll in her hand. I wonder whether she gives or takes?"
said Diana, stopping on her way to her own seat to look out over Hazel's shoulder.

"Both, I guess," said Mrs. Ripwinkley. "Most people do. Why don't you put your flowers in the
window, Hazel?"

"Why, so I will!"

They were a great bunch of snowy white and deep crimson asters, with green ivy leaves, in a
tall gray glass vase. Rachel Froke had just brought them in from Miss Craydocke's garden.

"They're looking, mother! Only I do think it's half too bad! That girl seems as if she would
almost reach across after them. Perhaps they came from the country, and haven't had any flowers."

"Thee might take them over some," said Mrs. Froke, simply.

"O, I shouldn't dare! There are other people in the house, and I don't know their names, or
anything. I wish I could, though."

"I can," said Rachel Froke. "Thee'll grow tall enough to step over pebbles one of these days.
Never mind; I'll fetch thee more to-morrow; and thee'll let the vase go for a while? Likely
they've nothing better than a tumbler."

Rachel Froke went down the stairs, and out along the paved walk, into the street. She stopped
an instant on the curb-stone before she crossed, and looked up at those second story windows.
Hazel watched her. She held up the vase slightly with one hand, nodding her little gray bonnet
kindly, and beckoned with the other.

The young girl started from her seat.

In another minute Hazel saw them together in the doorway.

There was a blush and a smile, and an eager brightness in the face, and a quick speaking thanks,
that one could read without hearing, from the parted lips, on the one side, and the quiet,
unflutterable gray bonnet calmly horizontal on the other; and then the door was shut, and Rachel
Froke was crossing the damp pavement again.

"I'm so glad Aspen Street is narrow!" said Hazel. "I should hate to be way off out of sight
of people. What did you say to her, Mrs. Froke?" she asked, as the Friend reentered. Hazel
could by no means take the awful liberty of "Rachel."

"I said the young girl, Hazel Ripwinkley, being from the country, knew how good flowers were
to strangers in the town, and that she thought they might be strange, and might like some."

Hazel flushed all up. At that same instant, a gentle nod and smile came across from window
to window, and she flushed more, till the tears sprung with the shy, glad excitement, as she
returned it and then shrunk away.

"And she said, 'Thank her, with Dorris Kincaid's love,'" proceeded Rachel Froke.

"O, mother!" exclaimed Hazel. "And you did it all, right off so, Mrs. Froke. I don't see how
grown up people dare, and know how!"

Up the stairs ran quick feet in little clattering heeled boots. Desire Ledwith, with a purple
waterproof on, came in.

"I couldn't stay at home to-day," she said, "I wanted to be where it was all-togetherish. It
never is at our house. Now it's set up, they don't do anything with it."

"That's because it 'looks'--so elegant," said Hazel, catching herself up in dismay.

"It's because it's the crust, I think," said Desire. "Puff paste, like an oyster patty; and
they haven't got anything cooked yet for the middle. I wonder when they will. I had a call
yesterday, all to myself," she went on, with a sudden change of tone and topic. "Agatha was
hopping and I wouldn't tell her what I said, or how I behaved. That new parlor girl of ours
thinks we're all or any of us 'Miss Ledwith,' mamma included, and so she let him in. He had
on lavender pantaloons and a waxed moustache."

"The rain is just pouring down!" said Diana, at the garden window.

"Yes; I'm caught. That's what I meant," said Desire. "You've got to keep me all day, now. How
will you get home, Mrs. Froke? Or won't you have to stay, too?"

"Thee may call me Rachel, Desire Ledwith, if thee pleases. I like it better. I am no mistress.
And for getting home, it is but just round the corner. But there is no need yet. I came for
an hour, to sit here with friend Frances. And my hour is not yet up."

"I'm glad of that, for there is something I want you to tell me. I haven't quite got at it
myself, yet; so as to ask, I mean. Wait a minute!" And she put her elbows up on her knees,
and held her thumbs against her ears, and her fingers across her forehead; sitting squarely
opposite the window to which she had drawn up her chair beside Diane, and looking intently
at the driving streams that rushed and ran down against the glass.

"I was sitting in the bay-window at home, when it began this morning; that made me think. All
the world dripping wet, and I just put there dry and safe in the middle of the storm, shut
up behind those great clear panes and tight sashes. How they did have to contrive, and work,
before there were such places made for people! What if they had got into their first scratchy
little houses, and sat behind the logs as we do behind glass windows and thought, as I was
thinking, how nice it was just to be covered up from the rain? Is it all finished now? Hasn't
anybody got to contrive anything more? And who's going to do it--and everything. And what are
we good for,--just we,--to come and expect it all, modern-improved! I don't think much of our
place among things, do you, Mrs. Froke?--There, I believe that's it, as near as I can!'"

"Why does thee ask me, Desire?"

"I don't know. I don't know any whys or what fors. 'Behold we know not anything,'--Tennyson
and I! But you seem so--pacified--I suppose I thought you must have settled most things in
your mind."

"Every builder--every little joiner--did his piece,--thought his thought out, I think likely.
There's no little groove or moulding or fitting or finish, but is a bit of somebody's living;
and life grows, going on. We've all got our piece to do," said Rachel.

"I asked Mrs. Mig," Desire pursued, "and she said some people's part was to buy and employ
and encourage; and that spending money helps all the world; and then she put another cushion
to her back, and went on tatting."

"Perhaps it does--in spite of the world," said Rachel Froke, quietly.

"But I guess nobody is to sit by and only encourage; God has given out no such portion as that,
I do believe. We can encourage each other, and every one do his own piece too."

"I didn't really suppose Mrs. Mig knew," said Desire, demurely. "She never began at the bottom
of anything. She only finishes off. She buys pattern worsted work, and fills it in. That's
what she's doing now, when she don't tat; a great bunch of white lilies, grounding it with
olive. It's lovely; but I'd rather have made the lilies. She'll give it to mother, and then
Glossy will come and spend the winter with us. Mrs. Mig is going to Nassau with a sick friend;
she's awfully useful--for little overseeings and general touchings up, after all the hard part
is done. Mrs. Mig's sick friends always have nurses and waiting maids--Mrs. F---- Rachel! Do
you know, I haven't got any piece!"

"No, I don't know; nor does thee either, yet," said Rachel Froke.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It's all such bosh!" said Kenneth Kincaid, flinging down a handful of papers. "I've no right,
I solemnly think, to help such stuff out into the world! A man can't take hold anywhere, it
seems, without smutting his fingers!"

Kenneth Kincaid was correcting proof for a publisher. What he had to work on this morning was
the first chapters of a flimsy novel.

"It isn't even confectionery," said he. "It's terra alba and cochineal. And when it comes to
the sensation, it will be benzine for whiskey. Real things are bad enough, for the most part,
in this world; but when it comes to sham fictions and adulterated poisons, Dorris, I'd rather
help bake bread, if it were an honest loaf, or make strong shoes for laboring men!"

"You don't always get things like that," said Dorris. "And you know you're not responsible.
Why will you torment yourself so?"

"I was so determined not to do anything but genuine work; work that the world wanted; and to
have it come down to this!"

"Only for a time, while you are waiting."

"Yes; people must eat while they are waiting; that's the--devil of it! I'm not swearing, Dorris,
dear; it came truly into my head, that minute, about the Temptation in the Wilderness." Kenneth's
voice was reverent, saying this; and there was an earnest thought in his face.

"You'll never like anything heartily but your Sunday work."

"That's what keeps me here. My week-day work might be wanted somewhere else. And perhaps I
ought to go. There's Sunday work everywhere."

"If you've found one half, hold on to it;" said Dorris. "The other can't be far off."

"I suppose there are a score or two of young architects in this city, waiting for a name or
a chance to make one, as I am. If it isn't here for all of them, somebody has got to quit."

"And somebody has got to hold on," repeated Dorris. "You are morbid, Kent, about this 'work
of the world.'"

"It's overdone, everywhere. Fifth wheels trying to hitch on to every coach. I'd rather be the
one wheel of a barrow."

"The Lord is Wheelwright, and Builder," said Dorris, very simply. "You are a wheel, and He
has made you; He'll find an axle for you and put you on; and you shall go about his business,
so that you shall wonder to remember that you were ever leaning up against a wall. Do you know,
Kentie, life seems to me like the game we used to play at home in the twilight. When we shut
our eyes and let each other lead us, until we did not know where we were going, or in what
place we should come out. I should not care to walk up a broad path with my eyes wide open,
now. I'd rather feel the leading. To-morrow always makes a turn. It's beautiful! People don't
know, who never shut their eyes!"

Kenneth had taken up a newspaper.

"The pretenses at doing! The dodges and go-betweens that make a sham work between every two
real ones! There's hardly a true business carried on, and if there is, you don't know where
or which. Look at the advertisements. Why, they cheat with their very tops and faces! See this
man who puts in big capitals: 'Lost! $5,000! $1,000 reward!' and then tells you, in small type,
that five thousand dollars are lost every year by breaking glass and china, that his cement
will mend! What business has he to cry 'Wolf!' to the hindrance of the next man who may have
a real wolf to catch? And what business has the printer, whom the next man will pay to advertise
his loss, to help on a lie like this beforehand? I'm only twenty-six years old, Dorris, and
I'm getting ashamed of the world!"

"Don't grow hard, Kenneth. 'The Son of Man came not to condemn the world, but to save it.'
Let's each try to save our little piece!"

We are listening across the street, you see; between the windows in the rain; it is strange
what chords one catches that do not catch each other, and were never planned to be played together,--by
the players.

Kenneth Kincaid's father Robert had been a ship-builder. When shipping went down in the whirlpool
of 1857, Robert Kincaid's building had gone; and afterward he had died leaving his children
little beside their education, which he thanked God was secured, and a good repute that belonged
to their name, but was easily forgotten in the crowd of young and forward ones, and in the
strife and scramble of a new business growth.

Between college and technical studies Kenneth had been to the war. After that he had a chance
to make a fortune in Wall Street. His father's brother, James, offered to take him in with
him to buy and sell stocks and gold, to watch the market, to touch little unseen springs, to
put the difference into his own pocket every time the tide of value shifted, or could be made
to seem to shift. He might have been one of James R. Kincaid and Company. He would have none
of it. He told his uncle plainly that he wanted real work; that he had not come back from fighting
to--well, there he stopped, for he could not fling the truth in his uncle's face; he said there
were things he meant to finish learning, and would try to do; and if nobody wanted them of
him he would learn something else that was needed. So with what was left to his share from
his father's little remnant of property, he had two years at the Technological School, and
here he was in Boston waiting. You can see what he meant by real work, and how deep his theories
and distinctions lay. You can see that it might be a hard thing for one young man, here or
there, to take up the world on these terms now, in this year of our Lord eighteen hundred and
sixty-nine.

Over the way Desire Ledwith was beginning again, after a pause in which we have made our little
chassée.

"I know a girl," she said, "who has got a studio. And she talks about art, and she knows styles,
and who has done what, and she runs about to see pictures, and she copies things, and she has
little plaster legs and toes and things hanging round everywhere. She thinks it is something
great; but it's only Mig, after all. Everything is. Florence Migs into music. And I won't Mig,
if I never do anything. I'm come here this morning to darn stockings." And she pulled out of
her big waterproof pocket a bundle of stockings and a great white ball of darning cotton and
a wooden egg.

"There is always one thing that is real," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, gently, "and that shows the
way surely to all the rest."

"I know what you mean," said Desire, "of course; but they've mixed that all up too, like everything
else, so that you don't know where it is. Glossy Megilp has a velvet prayer-book, and she blacks
her eyelashes and goes to church. We've all been baptized, and we've learned the Lord's Prayer,
and we're all Christians. What is there more about it? I wish, sometimes, they had let it all
alone. I think they vaccinated us with religion, Aunt Frank, for fear we should take it the
natural way."

"Thee is restless," said Rachel Froke, tying on her gray cloak. "And to make us so is oftentimes
the first thing the Lord does for us. It was the first thing He did for the world. Then He
said, 'Let there be light!' In the meantime, thee is right; just darn thy stockings." And Rachel
went.

They had a nice morning, after that, "leaving frets alone," as Diana said. Diana Ripwinkley
was happy in things just as they were. If the sun shone, she rejoiced in the glory; if the
rain fell, it shut her in sweetly to the heart of home, and the outside world grew fragrant
for her breathing. There was never anything in her day that she could spare out of it, and
there were no holes in the hours either. "Whether she was most bird or bee, it was hard to
tell," her mother said of her; from the time she used to sweep and dust her garret baby-house
along the big beams in the old house at Homesworth, and make little cheeses, and set them to
press in wooden pill-boxes from which she had punched the bottoms out, till now, that she began
to take upon herself the daily freshening of the new parlors in Aspen Street, and had long
lessons of geometry to learn, whose dry demonstrations she set to odd little improvised recitatives
of music, and chanted over while she ran up and down putting away clean linen for her mother,
that Luclarion brought up from the wash.

As for Hazel, she was only another variation upon the same sweet nature. There was more of
outgo and enterprise with her. Diana made the thing or the place pleasant that she was in or
doing. Hazel sought out new and blessed inventions. "There was always something coming to the
child that wouldn't ever have come to no one else," Luclarion said. "And besides that, she
was a real 'Witch Hazel;' she could tell where the springs were, and what's more, where they
warn't."

Luclarion Grapp would never have pleaded guilty to "dropping into poetry" in any light whatsoever;
but what she meant by this was not exactly according to the letter, as one may easily see.

IX.

HAZEL'S INSPIRATION.

What was the use of "looking," unless things were looked at? Mrs. Ledwith found at the end
of the winter that she ought to give a party. Not a general one; Mrs. Ledwith always said "not
a general one," as if it were an exception, whereas she knew better than ever to undertake
a general party; her list would be too general, and heterogeneous. It would simply be a physical,
as well as a social, impossibility. She knew quantities of people separately and very cordially,
in her easy have-a-good-time-when-you-can style, that she could by no means mix, or even gather
together. She picked up acquaintances on summer journeys, she accepted civilities wherever
she might be, she asked everybody to her house who took a fancy to her, or would admire her
establishment, and if she had had a spring cleaning or a new carpeting, or a furbishing up
in any way, the next thing was always to light up and play it off,--to try it on to somebody.
What were houses for? And there was always somebody who ought to be paid attention to; somebody
staying with a friend, or a couple just engaged, or if nothing else, it was her turn to have
the sewing-society; and so her rooms got aired. Of course she had to air them now! The drawing-room,
with its apricot and coffee-brown furnishings, was lovely in the evening, and the crimson and
garnet in the dining-room was rich and cozy, and set off brilliantly her show of silver and
cut-glass; and then, there was the new, real, sea-green China.

So the party was had. There were some people in town from New York; she invited them and about
a hundred more. The house lit up beautifully; the only pity was that Mrs. Ledwith could not
wear her favorite and most becoming colors, buff and chestnut, because she had taken that family
of tints for her furniture; but she found a lovely shade of violet that would hold by gas-light,
and she wore black Fayal lace with it, and white roses upon her hair. Mrs. Treweek was enchanted
with the brown and apricot drawing-room, and wondered where on earth they had got that particular
shade, for "my dear! she had ransacked Paris for hangings in just that perfect, soft, ripe
color that she had in her mind and never could hit upon." Mrs. MacMichael had pushed the grapes
back upon her plate to examine the pattern of the bit of china, and had said how lovely the
coloring was, with the purple and pale green of the fruit. And these things, and a few more
like them, were the residuum of the whole, and Laura Ledwith was satisfied.

Afterward, "while they were in the way of it," Florence had a little musicale; and the first
season in Shubarton Place was over.

It turned out, however, as it did in the old rhyme,--they shod the horse, and shod the mare,
and let the little colt go bare. Helena was disgusted because she could not have a "German."

"We shall have to be careful, now that we have fairly settled down," said Laura to her sister;
"for every bit of Grant's salary will have been taken up with this winter's expenses. But one
wants to begin right, and after that one can go on moderately. I'm good at contriving, Frank;
only give me something to contrive with."

"Isn't it a responsibility," Frank ventured, "to think what we shall contrive for?"

"Of course," returned Mrs. Ledwith, glibly. "And my first duty is to my children. I don't mean
to encourage them to reckless extravagance; as Mrs. Megilp says, there's always a limit; but
it's one's duty to make life beautiful, and one can't do too much for home. I want my children
to be satisfied with theirs, and I want to cultivate their tastes and accustom them to society.
I can't do everything for them; they will dress on three hundred a year apiece, Agatha and
Florence; and I can assure you it needs management to accomplish that, in these days!"

Mrs. Ripwinkley laughed, gently.

"It would require management with us to get rid of that, upon ourselves."

"O, my dear, don't I tell you continually, you haven't waked up yet? Just rub your eyes a while
longer,--or let the girls do it for you,--and you'll see! Why, I know of girls,--girls whose
mothers have limited incomes, too,--who have been kept plain, actually plain, all their school
days, but who must have now six and eight hundred a year to go into society with. And really
I wouldn't undertake it for less, myself, if I expected to keep up with everything. But I must
treat mine all alike, and we must be contented with what we have. There's Helena, now, crazy
for a young party; but I couldn't think of it. Young parties are ten times worse than old ones;
there's really no end to the expense, with the German, and everything. Helena will have to
wait; and yet,--of course, if I could, it is desirable, almost necessary; acquaintances begin
in the school-room,--society, indeed; and a great deal would depend upon it. The truth is,
you're no sooner born, now-a-days, than you have to begin to keep up; or else--you're dropped out."

"O, Laura! do you remember the dear little parties our mother used to make for us? From four
till half-past eight, with games, and tea at six, and the fathers looking in?"

"And cockles, and mottoes, and printed cambric dresses, and milk and water! Where are the children,
do you suppose, you dear old Frau Van Winkle, that would come to such a party now?"

"Children must be born simple, as they were then. There's nothing my girls would like better,
even at their age, than to help at just such a party. It is a dream of theirs. Why shouldn't
somebody do it, just to show how good it is?"

"You can lead a horse to water, you know, Frank, but you can't make him drink. And the colts
are forty times worse. I believe you might get some of the mothers together for an ancient
tea-drink, just in the name of old association; but the babies would all turn up their new-fashioned
little noses."

"O, dear!" sighed Frau Van Winkle. "I wish I knew people!"

"By the time you do, you'll know the reason why, and be like all the rest."

Hazel Ripwinkley went to Mrs. Hilman's school, with her cousin Helena. That was because the
school was a thoroughly good one; the best her mother could learn of; not because it was kept
in parlors in Dorset Street, and there were girls there who came from palaces west of the Common,
in the grand avenues and the ABC streets; nor did Hazel wear her best gray and black velvet
suit for every day, though the rich colored poplins with their over-skirts and sashes, and
the gay ribbons for hair and neck made the long green baize covered tables look like gardenplots
with beds of bloom, and quite extinguished with their brilliancy the quiet, one skirted brown
merino that she brushed and folded every night, and put on with fresh linen cuffs and collar
every morning.

"It is an idiosyncrasy of Aunt Frances," Helena explained, with the grandest phrase she could
pick out of her "Synonymes," to cow down those who "wondered."

Privately, Helena held long lamentations with Hazel, going to and fro, about the party that
she could not have.

"I'm actually ashamed to go to school. There isn't a girl there, who can pretend to have anything,
that hasn't had some kind of a company this winter. I've been to them all, and I feel real
mean,--sneaky. What's 'next year?' Mamma puts me off with that. Poh? Next year they'll all
begin again. You can't skip birthdays."

"I'll tell you what!" said Hazel, suddenly, inspired by much the same idea that had occurred
to Mrs. Ripwinkley; "I mean to ask my mother to let me have a party!"

"You! Down in Aspen Street! Don't, for pity's sake, Hazel!"

"I don't believe but what it could be done over again!" said Hazel, irrelevantly, intent upon
her own thought.

"It couldn't be done once! For gracious grandmother's sake, don't think of it!" cried the little
world-woman of thirteen.

"It's gracious grandmother's sake that made me think of it," said Hazel, laughing. "The way
she used to do."

"Why don't you ask them to help you hunt up old Noah, and all get back into the ark, pigeons
and all?"

"Well, I guess they had pretty nice times there, any how; and if another big rain comes, perhaps
they'll have to!"

Hazel did not intend her full meaning; but there is many a faint, small prophecy hid under
a clover-leaf.

Hazel did not let go things; her little witch-wand, once pointed, held its divining angle with
the might of magic until somebody broke ground.

"It's awful!" Helena declared to her mother and sisters, with tears of consternation. "And
she wants me to go round with her and carry 'compliments!' It'll never be got over,--never!
I wish I could go away to boarding-school!"

For Mrs. Ripwinkley had made up her unsophisticated mind to try this thing; to put this grain
of a pure, potent salt, right into the seethe and glitter of little Boston, and find out what
it would decompose or precipitate. For was not she a mother, testing the world's chalice for
her children? What did she care for the hiss and the bubble, if they came?

She was wider awake than Mrs. Ledwith knew; perhaps they who come down from the mountain heights
of long seclusion can measure the world's paces and changes better than they who have been
hurried in the midst of them, on and on, or round and round.

Worst of all, old Uncle Titus took it up.

It was funny,--or it would have been funny, reader, if anybody but you and I and Rachel Froke
knew exactly how,--to watch Uncle Titus as he kept his quiet eye on all these things,--the
things that he had set going,--and read their revelations; sheltered, disguised, under a character
that the world had chosen to put upon him, like Haroun Alraschid in the merchant's cloak.

They took their tea with him,--the two families,--every Sunday night. Agatha Ledwith "filled
him in" a pair of slippers that very first Christmas; he sat there in the corner with his old
leather ones on, when they came, and left them, for the most part, to their own mutual entertainment,
until the tea was ready. It was a sort of family exchange; all the plans and topics came up,
particularly on the Ledwith side, for Mrs. Ripwinkley was a good listener, and Laura a good
talker; and the fun,--that you and I and Rachel Froke could guess,--yes, and a good deal of
unsuspected earnest, also,--was all there behind the old gentleman's "Christian Age," as over
brief mentions of sermons, or words about books, or little brevities of family inquiries and
household news, broke small floods of excitement like water over pebbles, as Laura and her
daughters discussed and argued volubly the matching and the flouncing of a silk, or the new
flowering and higher pitching of a bonnet,--since "they are wearing everything all on the top,
you know, and mine looks terribly meek;" or else descanted diffusely on the unaccountableness
of the somebodies not having called, or the bother and forwardness of the some-other-bodies
who had, and the eighty-three visits that were left on the list to be paid, and "never being
able to take a day to sit down for anything."

"What is it all for?" Mrs. Ripwinkley would ask, over again, the same old burden of the world's
weariness falling upon her from her sister's life, and making her feel as if it were her business
to clear it away somehow.

"Why, to live!" Mrs. Ledwith would reply. "You've got it all to do, you see."

"But I don't really see, Laura, where the living comes in."

Laura opens her eyes.

"Slang?" says she. "Where did you get hold of that?"

"Is it slang? I'm sure I don't know. I mean it."

"Well, you are the funniest! You don't catch anything. Even a by-word must come first-hand
from you, and mean something!"

"It seems to me such a hard-working, getting-ready-to-be, and then not being. There's no place
left for it,--because it's all place."

"Gracious me, Frank! If you are going to sift everything so, and get back of everything! I
can't live in metaphysics: I have to live in the things themselves, amongst other people."

"But isn't it scene and costume, a good deal of it, without the play? It may be that I don't
understand, because I have not got into the heart of your city life; but what comes of the
parties, for instance? The grand question, beforehand, is about wearing, and then there's a
retrospection of what was worn, and how people looked. It seems to be all surface. I should
think they might almost send in their best gowns, or perhaps a photograph,--if photographs
ever were becoming,--as they do visiting cards."

"Aunt Frank," said Desire, "I don't believe the 'heart of city life' is in the parties, or
the parlors. I believe there's a great lot of us knocking round amongst the dry goods and the
furniture that never get any further. People must be living, somewhere, behind the fixings.
But there are so many people, nowadays, that have never quite got fixed!"

"You might live all your days here," said Mrs. Ledwith to her sister, passing over Desire,
"and never get into the heart of it, for that matter, unless you were born into it. I don't
care so much, for my part. I know plenty of nice people, and I like to have things nice about
me, and to have a pleasant time, and to let my children enjoy themselves. The 'heart,' if the
truth was known, is a dreadful still place. I'm satisfied."

Uncle Titus's paper was folded across the middle; just then he reversed the lower half; that
brought the printing upside down; but he went on reading all the same.

"I'm going to have a real party," said Hazel, "a real, gracious-grandmother party; just such
as you and mother had, Aunt Laura, when you were little."

Her Aunt Laura laughed good-naturedly.

"I guess you'll have to go round and knock up the grandmothers to come to it, then," said she.
"You'd better make it a fancy dress affair at once, and then it will be accounted for."

"No; I'm going round to invite; and they are to come at four, and take tea at six; and they're
just to wear their afternoon dresses; and Miss Craydocke is coming at any rate; and she knows
all the old plays, and lots of new ones; and she is going to show how."

"I'm coming, too," said Uncle Titus, over his newspaper, with his eyes over his glasses.

"That's good," said Hazel, simply, least surprised of any of the conclave.

"And you'll have to play the muffin man. 'O, don't you know,'"--she began to sing, and danced
two little steps toward Mr. Oldways. "O, I forgot it was Sunday!" she said, suddenly stopping.

"Not much wonder," said Uncle Titus. "And not much matter. Your Sunday's good enough."

And then he turned his paper right side up; but, before he began really to read again, he swung
half round toward them in his swivel-chair, and said,--

"Leave the sugar-plums to me, Hazel; I'll come early and bring 'em in my pocket."

"It's the first thing he's taken the slightest notice of, or interest in, that any one of us
has been doing," said Agatha Ledwith, with a spice of momentary indignation, as they walked
along Bridgeley Street to take the car.

For Uncle Titus had not come to the Ledwith party. "He never went visiting, and he hadn't any
best coat," he told Laura, in verbal reply to the invitation that had come written on a square
satin sheet, once folded, in an envelope with a big monogram.

"It's of no consequence," said Mrs. Ledwith, "any way. Only a child's play."

"But it will be, mother; you don't know," said Helena. "She's going right in everywhere, with
that ridiculous little invitation; to the Ashburnes and the Geoffreys, and all! She hasn't
the least idea of any difference; and just think what the girls will say, and how they will
stare, and laugh! I wish she wasn't my cousin!"

"Helena!"

Mrs. Ledwith spoke with real displeasure; for she was good-natured and affectionate in her
way; and her worldly ambitions were rather wide than high, as we have seen.

"Well, I can't help it; you don't know, mother," Helena repeated. "It's horrid to go to school
with all those stiffies, that don't care a snap for you, and only laugh."

"Laughing is vulgar," said Agatha. If any indirect question were ever thrown upon the family
position, Agatha immediately began expounding the ethics of high breeding, as one who had attained.

"It is only half-way people who laugh," she said. "Ada Geoffrey and Lilian Ashburne never laugh--at
anybody--I am sure."

"No, they don't; not right out. They're awfully polite. But you can feel it, underneath. They
have a way of keeping so still, when you know they would laugh if they did anything."

"Well, they'll neither laugh nor keep still, about this. You need not be concerned. They'll
just not go, and that will be the end of it."

Agatha Ledwith was mistaken. She had been mistaken about two things to-night. The other was
when she had said that this was the first time Uncle Oldways had noticed or been interested
in anything they did.

X.

COCKLES AND CRAMBO.

Hazel Ripwinkley put on her nankeen sack and skirt, and her little round, brown straw hat.
For May had come, and almost gone, and it was a day of early summer warmth.

Hazel's dress was not a "suit;" it had been made and worn two summers before suits were thought
of; yet it suited very well, as people's things are apt to do, after all, who do not trouble
themselves about minutiæ of fashion, and so get no particular antediluvian marks upon them
that show when the flood subsides.

Her mother knew some things that Hazel did not. Mrs. Ripwinkley, if she had been asleep for
five and twenty years, had lost none of her perceptive faculties in the trance. But she did
not hamper her child with any doubts; she let her go on her simple way, under the shield of
her simplicity, to test this world that she had come into, for herself.

Hazel had written down her little list of the girls' names that she would like to ask; and
Mrs. Ripwinkley looked at it with a smile. There was Ada Geoffrey, the banker's daughter, and
Lilian Ashburne, the professor's,--heiresses each, of double lines of birth and wealth. She
could remember how, in her childhood, the old names sounded, with the respect that was in men's
tones when they were spoken; and underneath were Lois James and Katie Kilburnie, children of
a printer and a hatter. They had all been chosen for their purely personal qualities. A child,
let alone, chooses as an angel chooses.

It remained to be seen how they would come together.

At the very head, in large, fair letters, was,--

          "MISS CRAYDOCKE."

Down at the bottom, she had just added,--

          "MR. KINCAID AND DORRIS."

"For, if I have some grown folks, mother, perhaps I ought to have other grown folks,--'to keep
the balance true.' Besides, Mr. Kincaid and Dorris always like the little nice times."

From the day when Dorris Kincaid had come over with the gray glass vase and her repeated thanks,
when the flowers had done their ministry and faded, there had been little simple courtesies,
each way, between the opposite houses; and once Kenneth and his sister had taken tea with the
Ripwinkleys, and they had played "crambo" and "consequences" in the evening. The real little
game of "consequences," of which this present friendliness was a link, was going on all the
time, though they did not stop to read the lines as they folded them down, and "what the world
said" was not one of the items in their scheme of it at all.

It would have been something worth while to have followed Hazel as she went her rounds, asking
quietly at each house to see Mrs. This or That, "as she had a message;" and being shown, like
a little representative of an almost extinct period, up into the parlor, or the dressing-room
of each lady, and giving her quaint errand.

"I am Hazel Ripwinkley," she would say, "and my mother sends her compliments, and would like
to have Lilian,"--or whoever else,--"come at four o'clock to-day, and spend the afternoon and
take tea. I'm to have a little party such as she used to have, and nobody is to be much dressed
up, and we are only to play games."

"Why, that is charming!" cried Mrs. Ashburne; for the feeling of her own sweet early days,
and the old B---- Square house, came over her as she heard the words. "It is Lilian's music
afternoon; but never mind; give my kind compliments to your mother, and she will be very happy
to come."

And Mrs. Ashburne stooped down and kissed Hazel, when she went away.

She stood in the deep carved stone entrance-way to Mrs. Geoffrey's house, in the same fearless,
Red Riding Hood fashion, just as she would have waited in any little country porch up in Homesworth,
where she had need indeed to knock.

Not a whit dismayed was she either, when the tall manservant opened to her, and admitted her
into the square, high, marble-paved hall, out of which great doors were set wide into rooms
rich and quiet with noble adorning and soft shading,--where pictures made such a magic upon
the walls, and books were piled from floor to ceiling; and where her little figure was lost
as she went in, and she hesitated to take a seat anywhere, lest she should be quite hidden
in some great arm-chair or sofa corner, and Mrs. Geoffrey should not see her when she came down.

So, as the lady entered, there she was, upright and waiting, on her two feet, in her nankeen
dress, just within the library doors, with her face turned toward the staircase.

"I am Hazel Ripwinkley," she began; as if she had said, I am Pease-blossom or Mustard-seed;
"I go to school with Ada." And went on, then, with her compliments and her party. And at the
end she said, very simply,--

"Miss Craydocke is coming, and she knows the games."

"Miss Craydocke, of Orchard Street? And where do you live?"

"In Aspen Street, close by, in Uncle Oldways' house. We haven't lived there very long,--only
this winter; before that we always lived in Homesworth."

"And Homesworth is in the country? Don't you miss that?"

"Yes; but Aspen Street isn't very bad; we've got a garden. Besides, we like streets and neighbors."

Then she added,--for her little witch-stick felt spiritually the quality of what she spoke
to,--"Wouldn't Mr. Geoffrey come for Ada in the evening?"

"I haven't the least doubt he would!" said Mrs. Geoffrey, her face all alive with exquisite
and kindly amusement, and catching the spirit of the thing from the inimitable simplicity before
her, such as never, she did believe, had walked into anybody's house before, in this place
and generation, and was no more to be snubbed than a flower or a breeze or an angel.

It was a piece of Witch Hazel's witchery, or inspiration, that she named Miss Craydocke; for
Miss Craydocke was an old, dear friend of Mrs. Geoffrey's, in that "heart of things" behind
the fashions, where the kingdom is growing up. But of course Hazel could not have known that;
something in the lady's face just made her think of the same thing in Miss Craydocke's, and
so she spoke, forgetting to explain, nor wondering in the very least, when she was met with
knowledge.

It was all divining, though, from the beginning to the end. That was what took her into these
homes, rather than to a score of other places up and down the self-same streets, where, if
she had got in at all, she would have met strange, lofty stares, and freezing "thank you's,"
and "engagements."

"I've found the real folks, mother, and they're all coming!" she cried, joyfully, running in
where Mrs. Ripwinkley was setting little vases and baskets about on shelf and table, between
the white, plain, muslin draperies of the long parlor windows. In vases and baskets were sweet
May flowers; bunches of deep-hued, rich-scented violets, stars of blue and white periwinkle,
and Miss Craydocke's lilies of the valley in their tall, cool leaves; each kind gathered by
itself in clusters and handfuls. Inside the wide, open fireplace, behind the high brass fender
and the shining andirons, was a "chimney flower pot," country fashion, of green lilac boughs,--not
blossoms,--and woodbine sprays, and crimson and white tulips. The room was fair and fragrant,
and the windows were wide open upon vines and grass.

"It looks like you, mother, just as Mrs. Geoffrey's house looks like her. Houses ought to look
like people, I think."

"There's your surprise, children. We shouldn't be doing it right without a surprise, you know."

And the surprise was not dolls' pelerines, but books. "Little Women" was one, which sent Diana
and Hazel off for a delicious two hours' read up in their own room until dinner.

After dinner, Miss Craydocke came, in her purple and white striped mohair and her white lace
neckerchief; and at three o'clock Uncle Titus walked in, with his coat pockets so bulgy and
rustling and odorous of peppermint and sassafras, that it was no use to pretend to wait and
be unconscious, but a pure mercy to unload him so that he might be able to sit down.

Nobody knows to this day where he got them; he must have ordered them somewhere, one would
think, long enough before to have special moulds and implements made; but there were large,
beautiful cockles,--not of the old flour-paste sort, but of clear, sparkling sugar, rose-color,
and amber, and white, with little slips of tinted paper tucked within, and these printed delicately
with pretty rhymes and couplets, from real poets; things to be truly treasured, yet simple,
for children's apprehension, and fancy, and fun. And there were "Salem gibraltars," such as
we only get out of Essex County now and then, for a big charitable Fair, when Salem and everywhere
else gets its spirit up to send its best and most especial; and there were toys and devices
in sugar--flowers and animals, hats, bonnets, and boots, apples, and cucumbers,--such as Diana
and Hazel, and even Desire and Helena had never seen before.

"It isn't quite fair," said good Miss Craydocke. "We were to go back to the old, simple fashions
of things; and here you are beginning over again already with sumptuous inventions. It's the
very way it came about before, till it was all spoilt."

"No," said Uncle Titus, stoutly. "It's only 'Old and New,'--the very selfsame good old notions
brought to a little modern perfection. They're not French flummery, either; and there's not
a drop of gin, or a flavor of prussic acid, or any other abominable chemical, in one of those
contrivances. They're as innocent as they look; good honest mint and spice and checkerberry
and lemon and rose. I know the man that made 'em!"

Helena Ledwith began to think that the first person, singular or plural, might have a good
time; but that awful third! Helena's "they" was as potent and tremendous as her mother's.

"It's nice," she said to Hazel; "but they don't have inch things. I never saw them at a party.
And they don't play games; they always dance. And it's broad, hot daylight; and--you haven't
asked a single boy!"

"Why, I don't know any! Only Jimmy Scarup; and I guess he'd rather play ball, and break windows!"

"Jimmy Scarup!" And Helena turned away, hopeless of Hazel's comprehending.

But "they" came; and "they" turned right into "we."

It was not a party; it was something altogether fresh and new; the house was a new, beautiful
place; it was like the country. And Aspen Street, when you got down there, was so still and
shady and sweet smelling and pleasant. They experienced the delight of finding out something.

Miss Craydocke and Hazel set them at it,--their good time; they had planned it all out, and
there was no stiff, shy waiting. They began, right off, with the "Muffin Man."

And then they besieged Miss Craydocke; and then the three met Ada Geoffrey, just as she had
come in and spoken to Diana and Mrs. Ripwinkley; and Ada had caught the refrain, and responded
instantly; and four of them knew the Muffin Man.

"I know they'll think it's common and queer, and they'll laugh to-morrow," whispered Helena
to Diana, as Hazel drew the lengthening string to Dorris Kincaid's corner and caught her up;
but the next minute they were around Helena in her turn, and they were laughing already, with
pure glee; and five faces bent toward her, and five voices sang,--

          "O, don't you know the Muffin Man?"

And Helena had to sing back that she did; and then the six made a perfect snarl around Mrs.
Ripwinkley herself, and drew her in; and then they all swept off and came down across the room
upon Mr. Oldways, who muttered, under the singing, "seven women! Well, the Bible says so, and
I suppose it's come!" and then he held out both hands, while his hard face unbent in every
wrinkle, with a smile that overflowed through all their furrowed channels, up to his very eyes;
like some sparkling water that must find its level; and there were eight that knew the Muffin Man.

So nine, and ten, and up to fifteen; and then, as their line broke away into fragments, still
breathless with fun, Miss Craydocke said,--her eyes brimming over with laughing tears, that
always came when she was gay,--

"There, now! we all know the 'Muffin Man;' therefore it follows, mathematically, I believe,
that we must all know each other. I think we'll try a sitting-down game next. I'll give you
all something. Desire, you can tell them what to do with it, and Miss Ashburne shall predict
me consequences."

So they had the "Presentation Game;" and the gifts, and the dispositions, and the consequences,
when the whispers were over, and they were all declared aloud, were such hits and jumbles of
sense and nonsense as were almost too queer to have been believed.

"Miss Craydocke gave me a butter firkin," said Mrs. Ripwinkley. "I was to put it in the parlor
and plant vanilla beans in it; and the consequence would be that Birnam Wood would come to
Dunsinane."

"She gave me a wax doll," said Helena. "I was to buy it a pair of high-heeled boots and a chignon;
and the consequence would be that she would have to stand on her head."

"She gave me," said Mr. Oldways, "an iron spoon. I was to deal out sugar-plums with it; and
the consequence would be that you would all go home."

"She gave me," said Lois James, "Woman's Rights. I shouldn't know what to do with them; and
the consequence would be a terrible mortification to all my friends."

"She gave me," said Hazel, "a real good time. I was to pass it round; and the consequence would
be an earthquake."

Then they had "Scandal;" a whisper, repeated rapidly from ear to ear. It began with, "Luclarion
is in the kitchen making tea-biscuits;" and it ended with the horrible announcement that there
were "two hundred gallons of hot pitch ready, and that everybody was to be tipped into it."

"Characters," and "Twenty Questions," and "How, When, and Where," followed; and then they were
ready for a run again, and they played "Boston," in which Mr. Oldways, being "Sceattle," was
continually being left out, whereupon he declared at last, that he didn't believe there was
any place for him, or even that he was down anywhere on the map, and it wasn't fair, and he
was going to secede; and that broke up the play; for the groat fun of all the games had come
to be Miss Craydocke and Uncle Titus, as it always is the great fun to the young ones when
the elders join in,--the older and the soberer, the better sport; there is always something
in the "fathers looking on;" that is the way I think it is among them who always do behold
the Face of the Father in heaven,--smiling upon their smiles, glowing upon their gladness.

In the tea-room, it was all even more delightful yet; it was further out into the garden, shaded
at the back by the deep leafiness of grape-vines, and a trellis work with arches in it that
ran up at the side, and would be gay by and by with scarlet runners, and morning-glories, and
nasturtiums, that were shooting up strong and swift already, from the neatly weeded beds.

Inside, was the tall old semicircular sideboard, with gingerbread grooves carved all over it;
and the real brass "dogs," with heads on their fore-paws, were lying in the fire-place, under
the lilac boughs; and the square, plain table stood in the midst, with its glossy white cloth
that touched the floor at the corners, and on it were the identical pink mugs, and a tall glass
pitcher of milk, and plates of the thinnest and sweetest bread and butter, and early strawberries
in a white basket lined with leaves, and the traditional round frosted cakes upon a silver
plate with a network rim.

And Luclarion and Mrs. Ripwinkley waited upon them all, and it was still no party, to be compared
or thought of with any salad and ice-pudding and Germania-band affair, such as they had had
all winter; but something utterly fresh and new and by itself,--place, and entertainment, and
people, and all.

After tea, they went out into the garden; and there, under the shady horse-chestnuts, was a
swing; and there were balls with which Hazel showed them how to play "class;" tossing in turn
against the high brick wall, and taking their places up and down, according to the number of
their catches. It was only Miss Craydocke's "Thread the Needle" that got them in again; and
after that, she showed them another simple old dancing game, the "Winding Circle," from which
they were all merrily and mysteriously untwisting themselves with Miss Craydocke's bright little
thin face and her fluttering cap ribbons, and her spry little trot leading them successfully
off, when the door opened, and the grand Mr. Geoffrey walked in; the man who could manage State
Street, and who had stood at the right hand of Governor and President, with his clear brain,
and big purse, and generous hand, through the years of the long, terrible war; the man whom
it was something for great people to get to their dinners, or to have walk late into an evening
drawing-room and dignify an occasion for the last half hour.

Mrs. Ripwinkley was just simply glad to see him; so she was to see Kenneth Kincaid, who came
a few minutes after, just as Luclarion brought the tray of sweetmeats in, which Mrs. Ripwinkley
had so far innovated upon the gracious-grandmother plan as to have after tea, instead of before.

The beautiful cockles and their rhymes got their heads all together around the large table,
for the eating and the reading. Mr. Geoffrey and Uncle Titus sat talking European politics
together, a little aside. The sugar-plums lasted a good while, with the chatter over them;
and then, before they quite knew what it was all for, they had got slips of paper and lead
pencils before them, and there was to be a round of "Crambo" to wind up.

"O, I don't know how!" and "I never can!" were the first words, as they always are, when it
was explained to the uninitiated; but Miss Craydocke assured them that "everybody could;" and
Hazel said that "nobody expected real poetry; it needn't be more than two lines, and those
might be blank verse, if they were very hard, but jingles were better;" and so the questions
and the wards were written and folded, and the papers were shuffled and opened amid outcries
of, "O, this is awful!" "What a word to get in!" "Why, they haven't the least thing to do with
each other!"

"That's the beauty of it," said Miss Craydocke, unrelentingly; "to make them have; and it is
funny how much things do have to do with each other when they once happen to come across."

Then there were knit brows, and desperate scratchings, and such silence that Mr. Geoffrey and
Uncle Titus stopped short on the Alabama question, and looked round to see what the matter was.

Kenneth Kincaid had been modestly listening to the older gentlemen, and now and then venturing
to inquire or remark something, with an intelligence that attracted Mr. Geoffrey; and presently
it came out that he had been south with the army; and then Mr. Geoffrey asked questions of
him, and they got upon Reconstruction business, and comparing facts and exchanging conclusions,
quite as if one was not a mere youth with only his eyes and his brains and his conscience to
help him in his first grapple with the world in the tangle and crisis at which he found it,
and the other a grave, practiced, keen-judging man, the counsellor of national leaders.

After all, they had no business to bring the great, troublesome, heavy-weighted world into
a child's party. I wish man never would; though it did not happen badly, as it all turned out,
that they did a little of it in this instance. If they had thought of it, "Crambo" was good
for them too, for a change; and presently they did think of it; for Dorris called out in distress,
real or pretended, from the table,--

"Kentie, here's something you must really take off my hands! I haven't the least idea what
to do with it."

And then came a cry from Hazel,--

"No fair! We're all just as badly off, and there isn't one of us that has got a brother to
turn to. Here's another for Mr. Kincaid."

"There are plenty more. Come, Mr. Oldways, Mr. Geoffrey, won't you try 'Crambo?' There's a
good deal in it, as there is in most nonsense."

"We'll come and see what it is," said Mr. Geoffrey; and so the chairs were drawn up, and the
gray, grave heads looked on over the young ones.

"Why, Hazel's got through!" said Lois, scratching violently at her paper, and obliterating
three obstinate lines.

"O, I didn't bother, you see! I just stuck the word right in, like a pin into a pincushion,
and let it go. There wasn't anything else to do with it."

"I've got to make my pincushion," said Dorris.

"I should think you had! Look at her! She's writing her paper all over! O, my gracious, she
must have done it before!"

"Mother and Mr. Geoffrey are doing heaps, too! We shall have to publish a book," said Diana,
biting the end of her pencil, and taking it easy. Diana hardly ever got the rhymes made in
time; but then she always admired everybody's else, which was a good thing for somebody to
be at leisure to do.

"Uncle Oldways and Lilian are folding up," said Hazel.

"Five minutes more," said Miss Craydocke, keeping the time with her watch before her. "Hush!"

When the five minutes were rapped out, there were seven papers to be read. People who had not
finished this time might go on when the others took fresh questions.

Hazel began reading, because she had been ready first.

"'What is the difference between sponge-cake and doughnuts?' 'Hallelujah.'"

          "Airiness, lightness, and insipidity;
           Twistiness, spiciness, and solidity.
           Hallelujah! I've got through!
           That is the best that I can do!'"

There was a shout at Hazel's pinsticking.

"Now, Uncle Titus! You finished next."

"My question is a very comprehensive one," said Uncle Titus, "with a very concise and suggestive
word. 'How wags the world?' 'Slambang.'"

          "'The world wags on
            With lies and slang;
            With show and vanity,
            Pride and inanity,
            Greed and insanity,
            And a great slambang!'"

"That's only one verse," said Miss Craydocke. "There's another; but he didn't write it down."

Uncle Titus laughed, and tossed his Crambo on the table. "It's true, so far, anyway," said he.

"So far is hardly ever quite true," said Miss Craydocke

Lilian Ashburne had to answer the question whether she had ever read "Young's Night Thoughts;"
and her word was "Comet."

          "'Pray might I be allowed a pun,
            To help me through with just this one?
            I've tried to read Young's Thoughts of Night,
            But never yet could come it, quite.'"

"O, O, O! That's just like Lilian, with her soft little 'prays' and 'allow me's,' and her little
pussy-cat ways of sliding through tight places, just touching her whiskers!"

"It's quite fair," said Lilian, smiling, "to slide through if you can."

"Now, Mr. Geoffrey."

And Mr. Geoffrey read,--

"'What is your favorite color?' 'One-hoss.'"

          "'Do you mean, my friend, for a one-hoss shay,
            Or the horse himself,--black, roan, or bay?
            In truth, I think I can hardly say;
            I believe, for a nag, "I bet on the gray."

          "'For a shay, I would rather not have yellow,
            Or any outright, staring color,
            That makes the crowd look after a fellow,
            And the little gamins hoot and bellow.

          "'Do you mean for ribbons? or gowns? or eyes?
            Or flowers? or gems? or in sunset skies?
            For many questions, as many replies,
            Drops of a rainbow take rainbow dyes.

          "'The world is full, and the world is bright;
            Each thing to its nature parts the light;
            And each for its own to the Perfect sight
            Wears that which is comely, and sweet, and right.'"

"O, Mr. Geoffrey! That's lovely!" cried the girl voices, all around him. And Ada made a pair
of great eyes at her father, and said,--

"What an awful humbug you have been, papa! To have kept the other side up with care all your
life! Who ever suspected that of you?"

Diana and Hazel were not taken so much by surprise, their mother had improvised little nursery
jingles for them all their baby days, and had played Crambo with them since; so they were very
confident with their "Now, mother:" and looked calmly for something creditable.

"'What is your favorite name?'" read Mrs. Ripwinkley. "And the word is 'Stuff.'"

          "'When I was a little child,
            Looking very meek and mild,
            I liked grand, heroic names,--
            Of warriors, or stately dames:
            Zenobia, and Cleopatra;
            (No rhyme for that this side Sumatra;)
            Wallace, and Helen Mar,--Clotilda,
            Berengaria, and Brunhilda;
            Maximilian; Alexandra;
            Hector, Juno, and Cassandra;
            Charlemagne and Britomarte,
            Washington and Bonaparte;
            Victoria and Guinevere,
            And Lady Clara Vere de Vere.
            --Shall I go on with all this stuff,
            Or do you think it is enough?
            I cannot tell you what dear name
            I love the best; I play a game;
            And tender earnest doth belong
            To quiet speech, not silly song.'"

"That's just like mother; I should have stopped as soon as I'd got the 'stuff' in; but she
always shapes off with a little morriowl," said Hazel. "Now, Desire!"

Desire frantically scribbled a long line at the end of what she had written; below, that is,
a great black morass of scratches that represented significantly the "Slough of Despond" she
had got into over the winding up, and then gave,--

"'Which way would you rather travel,--north or south?' 'Goosey-gander.'"

          "'O, goosey-gander!
                If I might wander,
            It should be toward the sun;
                The blessed South
                Should fill my mouth
            With ripeness just begun.
                For bleak hills, bare,
                With stunted, spare,
            And scrubby, piney trees,
                Her gardens rare,
                And vineyards fair,
            And her rose-scented breeze.
                For fearful blast,
                Skies overcast,
            And sudden blare and scare
                Long, stormless moons,
                And placid noons,
            And--all sorts of comfortablenesses,--there!'"

"That makes me think of father's horse running away with him once," said Helena, "when he had
to head him right up against a brick wall, and knock everything all to smash before he could stop!"

"Anybody else?"

"Miss Kincaid, I think," said Mr. Geoffrey. He had been watching Dorris's face through the
play, flashing and smiling with the excitement of her rhyming, and the slender, nervous fingers
twisting tremulously the penciled slip while she had listened to the others.

"If it isn't all rubbed out," said Dorris, coloring and laughing to find how badly she had
been treating her own effusion.

"You see it was rather an awful question,--'What do you want most?' And the word is, 'Thirteen.'"

She caught her breath a little quickly as she began:--

          "'Between yourself, dear, myself, and the post,
            There are the thirteen things that I want the most.
            I want to be, sometimes, a little stronger;
            I want the days to be a little longer;
            I'd like to have a few less things to do;
            I'd better like to better do the few:
            I want--and this might almost lead my wishes,--
            A bigger place to keep my mops and dishes.
            I want a horse; I want a little buggy,
            To ride in when the days grow hot and muggy;
            I want a garden; and,--perhaps it's funny,--
            But now and then I want a little money.
            I want an easy way to do my hair;
            I want an extra dress or two to wear;
            I want more patience; and when all is given,
            I think I want to die and go to heaven!'"

"I never saw such bright people in all my life!" said Ada Geoffrey, when the outcry of applause
for Dorris had subsided, and they began to rise to go. "But the worst of all is papa! I'll
never get over it of you, see if I do! Such a cheat! Why, it's like playing dumb all your life,
and then just speaking up suddenly in a quiet way, some day, as if it was nothing particular,
and nobody cared!"

With Hazel's little divining-rod, Mrs. Ripwinkley had reached out, testing the world for her,
to see what some of it might be really made of. Mrs. Geoffrey, from her side, had reached out
in turn, also, into this fresh and simple opportunity, to see what might be there worth while.

"How was it, Aleck?" she asked of her husband, as they sat together in her dressing-room, while
she brushed out her beautiful hair.

"Brightest people I have been among for a long time--and nicest," said the banker, concisely.
"A real, fresh little home, with a mother in it. Good place for Ada to go, and good girls for
her to know; like the ones I fell in love with a hundred years ago."

"That rhymed oracle,--to say nothing of the fraction of a compliment,--ought to settle it,"
said Mrs. Geoffrey, laughing.

"Rhymes have been the order of the evening. I expect to talk in verse for a week at least."

And then he told her about the "Crambo."

A week after, Mrs. Ledwith was astonished to find, lying on the mantel in her sister's room,
a card that had been sent up the day before,--

          "MRS. ALEXANDER H. GEOFFREY."

XI.

MORE WITCH-WORK.

Hazel was asked to the Geoffreys' to dinner.

Before this, she and Diana had both been asked to take tea, and spend an evening, but this
was Hazel's little especial "invite," as she called it, because she and Ada were writing a
dialogue together for a composition at school.

The Geoffreys dined at the good old-fashioned hour of half past two, except when they had formal
dinner company; and Hazel was to come right home from school with Ada, and stay and spend the
afternoon.

"What intimacy!" Florence Ledwith had exclaimed, when she heard of it.

"But it isn't at all on the grand style side; people like the Geoffreys do such things quite
apart from their regular connection; it is a sort of 'behind the scenes;'" said Glossy Megilp,
who was standing at Florence's dressing-glass, touching up the little heap of "friz" across
her forehead.

"Where's my poker?" she asked, suddenly, breaking off from the Geoffrey subject, and rummaging
in a dressing box, intent upon tutoring some little obstinate loop of hair that would be too
frizzy.

"I should think a 'blower' might be a good thing to add to your tools, Glossy," said Desire.
"You have brush, poker, and tongs, now, to say nothing of coal-hod," she added, glancing at
the little open japanned box that held some kind of black powder which had to do with the shadow
of Glossy's eyelashes upon occasion, and the emphasis upon the delicate line of her brows.

"No secret," said Glossy, magnanimously. "There it is! It is no greater sin than violet powder,
or false tails, for that matter; and the little gap in my left eyebrow was never deliberately
designed. It was a 'lapsus naturæ;' I only follow out the hint, and complete the intention.
Something is left to ourselves; as the child said about the Lord curling her hair for her when
she was a baby and letting her do it herself after she grew big enough. What are our artistic
perceptions given to us for, unless we're to make the best of ourselves in the first place?"

"But it isn't all eyebrows," said Desire, half aloud.

"Of course not," said Glossy Megilp. "Twice a day I have to do myself up somehow, and why shouldn't
it be as well as I can? Other things come in their turn, and I do them."

"But, you see, the friz and the fix has to be, anyhow, whether or no. Everything isn't done,
whether or no. I guess it's the 'first place,' that's the matter."

"I think you have a very theoretical mind, Des, and a slightly obscure style. You can't be
satisfied till everything is all mapped out, and organized, and justified, and you get into
horrible snarls trying to do it. If I were you, I would take things a little more as they come."

"I can't," said Desire. "They come hind side before and upside down."

"Well, if everybody is upside down, there's a view of it that makes it all right side up, isn't
there? It seems to be an established fact that we must dress and undress, and that the first
duty of the day is to get up and put on our clothes. We aren't ready for much until we do.
And one person's dressing may require one thing, and another's another. Some people have a
cork leg to put on, and some people have false teeth; and they wouldn't any of them come hobbling
or mumbling out without them, unless there was a fire or an earthquake, I suppose."

Glossy Megilp's arguments and analogies perplexed Desire, always. They sometimes silenced her;
but they did not always answer her. She went back to what they had been discussing before.

"To 'lay down the shubbel and the hoe,'--here's your poker, under the table-flounce, Glossy,--and
to 'take up the fiddle and the bow,' again,--I think it's real nice and beautiful for Hazel--"

"To 'go where the good darkies go'?"

"Yes. It's the good of her that's got her in. And I believe you and Florence both would give
your best boots to be there too, if it is behind. Behind the fixings and the fashions is where
people live; 'dere's vat I za-ay!'" she ended, quoting herself and Rip Van Winkle.

"Maybe," said Florence, carelessly; "but I'd as lief be in the fashion, after all. And that's
where Hazel Ripwinkley never will get, with all her taking little novelties."

Meanwhile, Hazel Ripwinkley was deep in the delights of a great portfolio of rare engravings;
prints of glorious frescoes in old churches, and designs of splendid architecture; and Mrs.
Geoffrey, seeing her real pleasure, was sitting beside her, turning over the large sheets,
and explaining them; telling her, as she gazed into the wonderful faces of the Saints and the
Evangelists in Correggio's frescoes of the church of San Giovanni at Parma, how the whole dome
was one radiant vision of heavenly glory, with clouds and angel faces, and adoring apostles,
and Christ the Lord high over all; and that these were but the filling in between the springing
curves of the magnificent arches; describing to her the Abbess's room in San Paolo, with its
strange, beautiful heathen picture over the mantel, of Diana mounting her stag-drawn car, and
its circular walls painted with trellis-work and medallioned with windows, where the heads
of little laughing children, and graceful, gentle animals peeped in from among vines and flowers.

Mrs. Geoffrey did not wonder that Hazel lingered with delight over these or over the groups
by Raphael in the Sistine Chapel,--the quiet pendentives, where the waiting of the world for
its salvation was typified in the dream-like, reclining forms upon the still, desert sand;
or the wonderful scenes from the "Creation,"--the majestic "Let there be Light!" and the Breathing
of the breath of life into Man. She watched the surprise and awe with which the child beheld
for the first time the daring of inspiration in the tremendous embodiment of the Almighty,
and waited while she could hardly take her eyes away. But when, afterward, they turned to a
portfolio of Architecture, and she found her eager to examine spires and arches and capitals,
rich reliefs and stately facades and sculptured gates, and exclaiming with pleasure at the
colored drawings of Florentine ornamentation, she wondered, and questioned her,--

"Have you ever seen such things before? Do you draw? I should hardly think you would care so
much, at your age."

"I like the prettiness," said Hazel, simply, "and the grandness; but I don't suppose I should
care so much if it wasn't for Dorris and Mr. Kincaid. Mr. Kincaid draws buildings; he's an
architect; only he hasn't architected much yet, because the people that build things don't
know him. Dorris was so glad to give him a Christmas present of 'Daguerreotypes de Paris,'
with the churches and arches and bridges and things; she got it at a sale; I wonder what they
would say to all these beauties!"

Then Mrs. Geoffrey found what still more greatly enchanted her, a volume of engravings, of
English Home Architecture; interiors of old Halls, magnificent staircases, lofty libraries
and galleries dim with space; exteriors, gabled, turreted and towered; long, rambling piles
of manor houses, with mixed styles of many centuries.

"They look as if they were brimfull of stories!" Hazel cried. "O, if I could only carry it
home to show to the Kincaids!"

"You may," said Mrs. Geoffrey, as simply, in her turn, as if she were lending a copy of "Robinson
Crusoe;' never letting the child guess by a breath of hesitation the value of what she had asked.

"And tell me more about these Kincaids. They are friends of yours?"

"Yes; we've known them all winter. They live right opposite, and sit in the windows, drawing
and writing. Dorris keeps house up there in two rooms. The little one is her bedroom; and Mr.
Kincaid sleeps on the big sofa. Dorris makes crackle-cakes, and asks us over. She cooks with
a little gas-stove. I think it is beautiful to keep house with not very much money. She goes
out with a cunning white basket and buys her things; and she does all her work up in a corner
on a white table, with a piece of oil-cloth on the floor; and then she comes over into her
parlor, she says, and sits by the window. It's a kind of a play all the time."

"And Mr. Kincaid?"

"Dorris says he might have been rich by this time, if he had gone into his Uncle James's office
in New York. Mr. James Kincaid is a broker, and buys gold. But Kenneth says gold stands for
work, and if he ever has any he'll buy it with work. He wants to do some real thing. Don't
you think that's nice of him?"

"Yes, I do," said Mrs. Geoffrey. "And Dorris is that bright girl who wanted thirteen things,
and rhymed them into 'Crambo?' Mr. Geoffrey told me."

"Yes, ma'am; Dorris can do almost anything."

"I should like to see Dorris, sometime. Will you bring her here, Hazel?"

Hazel's little witch-rod felt the almost impassible something in the way.

"I don't know as she would be brought," she said.

Mrs. Geoffrey laughed.

"You have an instinct for the fine proprieties, without a bit of respect for any conventional
fences," she said. "I'll ask Dorris."

"Then I'm sure she'll come," said Hazel, understanding quite well and gladly the last three
words, and passing over the first phrase as if it had been a Greek motto, put there to be skipped.

"Ada has stopped practicing," said Mrs. Geoffrey, who had undertaken the entertainment of her
little guest during her daughter's half hour of music. "She will be waiting for you now."

Hazel instantly jumped up.

But she paused after three steps toward the door, to say gently, looking back over her shoulder
with a shy glance out of her timidly clear eyes,--

"Perhaps,--I hope I haven't,--stayed too long!"

"Come back, you little hazel-sprite!" cried Mrs. Geoffrey; and when she got her within reach
again, she put her hands one each side of the little blushing, gleaming face, and kissed it,
saying,--

"I don't think,--I'm slow, usually, in making up my mind about people, big or little,--but
I don't think you can stay too long,--or come too often, dear!"

"I've found another for you, Aleck," she said, that night at the hair-brushing, to her husband.

He always came to sit in her dressing-room, then; and it was at this quiet time that they gave
each other, out of the day they had lived in their partly separate ways and duties, that which
made it for each like a day lived twice, so that the years of their life counted up double.

"He is a young architect, who hasn't architected much, because he doesn't know the people who
build things; and he wouldn't be a gold broker with his uncle in New York, because he believes
in doing money's worth in the world for the world's money. Isn't he one?"

"Sounds like it," said Mr. Geoffrey. "What is his name?"

"Kincaid."

"Nephew of James R. Kincaid?" said Mr. Geoffrey, with an interrogation that was also an exclamation.
"And wouldn't go in with him! Why, it was just to have picked up dollars!"

"Exactly," replied his wife. "That was what he objected to."

"I should like to see the fellow."

"Don't you remember? You have seen him! The night you went for Ada to the Aspen Street party,
and got into 'Crambo.' He was there; and it was his sister who wanted thirteen things. I guess
they do!"

"Ask them here," said the banker.

"I mean to," Mrs. Geoffrey answered. "That is, after I've seen Hapsie Craydocke. She knows
everything. I'll go there to-morrow morning."

       *       *       *       *       *

"'Behind' is a pretty good way to get in--to some places," said Desire Ledwith, coming into
the rose-pink room with news. "Especially an omnibus. And the Ripwinkleys, and the Kincaids,
and old Miss Craydocke, and for all I know, Mrs. Scarup and Luclarion Grapp are going to Summit
Street to tea to-night. Boston is topsy-turvey; Holmes was a prophet; and 'Brattle Street and
Temple Place are interchanging cards!' Mother, we ought to get intimate with the family over
the grocer's shop. Who knows what would come of it? There are fairies about in disguise, I'm
sure; or else it's the millennium. Whichever it is, it's all right for Hazel, though; she's
ready. Don't you feel like foolish virgins, Flo and Nag? I do."

I am afraid it was when Desire felt a little inclination to "nag" her elder sister, that she
called her by that reprehensible name. Agatha only looked lofty, and vouchsafed no reply; but
Florence said,--

"There's no need of any little triumphs or mortifications. Nobody crows, and nobody cries.
I'm glad. Diana's a dear, and Hazel's a duck, besides being my cousins; why shouldn't I? Only
there is a large hole for the cats, and a little hole for the kittens; and I'd as lief, myself,
go in with the cats."

"The Marchbankses are staying there, and Professor Gregory. I don't know about cats," said
Desire, demurely.

"It's a reason-why party, for all that," said Agatha, carelessly, recovering her good humor.

"Well, when any nice people ask me, I hope there will be a 'reason why.' It's the persons of
consequence that make the 'reason why.'"

And Desire had the last word.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hazel Ripwinkley was thinking neither of large holes nor little ones,--cats nor kittens; she
was saying to Luclarion, sitting in her shady down-stairs room behind the kitchen, that looked
out into the green yard corner, "how nicely things came out, after all!"

"They seemed so hobblety at first, when I went up there and saw all those beautiful books,
and pictures, and people living amongst them every day, and the poor Kincaids not getting the
least bit of a stretch out of their corner, ever. I'll tell you what I thought, Luclarion;"
and here she almost whispered, "I truly did. I thought God was making a mistake."

Luclarion put out her lips into a round, deprecating pucker, at that, and drew in her breath,--

"Oo--sh!"

"Well, I mean it seemed as if there was a mistake somewhere; and that I'd no business, at any
rate, with what they wanted so. I couldn't get over it until I asked for those pictures; and
mother said it was such a bold thing to do!"

"It was bold," said Luclarion; "but it wasn't forrud. It was gi'n you, and it hit right. That
was looked out for."

"It's a stumpy world," said Luclarion Grapp to Mrs. Ripwinkley, afterward; "but some folks
step right over their stumps athout scarcely knowin' when!"

XII.

CRUMBS.

Desire Ledwith was, at this epoch, a perplexity and a worry,--even a positive terror sometimes,--to
her mother.

It was not a case of the hen hatching ducks, it was rather as if a hen had got a hawk in her brood.

Desire's demurs and questions,--her dissatisfactions, sittings and contempts,--threatened now
and then to swoop down upon the family life and comfort with destroying talons.

"She'll be an awful, strong-minded, radical, progressive, overturning woman," Laura said, in
despair, to her friend Mrs. Megilp. "And Greenley Street, and Aspen Street, and that everlasting
Miss Craydocke, are making her worse. And what can I do? Because there's Uncle."

Right before Desire,--not knowing the cloud of real bewilderment that was upon her young spiritual
perceptions, getting their first glimpse of a tangled and conflicting and distorted world,--she
drew wondering comparisons between her elder children and this odd, anxious, restless, sharp-spoken
girl.

"I don't understand it," she would say. "It isn't a bit like a child of mine. I always took
things easy, and got the comfort of them somehow; I think the world is a pretty pleasant place
to live in, and there's lots of satisfaction to be had; and Agatha and Florence take after
me; they are nice, good-natured, contented girls; managing their allowances,--that I wish were
more,--trimming their own bonnets, and enjoying themselves with their friends, girl-fashion."

Which was true. Agatha and Florence were neither fretful nor dissatisfied; they were never
disrespectful, perhaps because Mrs. Ledwith demanded less of deferential observance than of
a kind of jolly companionship from her daughters; a go-and-come easiness in and out of what
they called their home, but which was rather the trimming-up and outfitting place,--a sort
of Holmes' Hole,--where they put in spring and fall, for a thorough overhaul and rig; and at
other times, in intervals or emergencies, between their various and continual social trips
and cruises. They were hardly ever all-togetherish, as Desire had said, if they ever were,
it was over house cleaning and millinery; when the ordering was complete,--when the wardrobes
were finished,--then the world was let in, or they let themselves out, and--"looked."

"Desire is different," said Mrs. Ledwith. "She's like Grant's father, and her Aunt Desire,--pudgicky
and queer."

"Well, mamma," said the child, once, driven to desperate logic for defense, "I don't see how
it can be helped. If you will marry into the Ledwith family, you can't expect to have your
children all Shieres!"

Which, again, was very true. Laura laughed at the clever sharpness of it, and was more than
half proud of her bold chick-of-prey, after all.

Yet Desire remembered that her Aunt Frances was a Shiere, also; and she thought there might
easily be two sides to the same family; why not, since there were two sides still further back,
always? There was Uncle Titus; who knew but it was the Oldways streak in him after all?

Desire took refuge, more and more, with Miss Craydocke, and Rachel Froke, and the Ripwinkleys;
she even went to Luclarion with questions, to get her quaint notions of things; and she had
ventured into Uncle Titus's study, and taken down volumes of Swedenborg to pry into, while
he looked at her with long keen regards over his spectacles, and she did not know that she
was watched.

"That young girl, Desire, is restless, Titus," Rachel Froke said to him one day. "She is feeling
after something; she wants something real to do; and it appears likely to me that she will
do it, if they don't take care."

After that, Uncle Titus fixed his attention upon her yet more closely; and at this time Desire
stumbled upon things in a strange way among his bookshelves, and thought that Rachel Froke
was growing less precise in her fashion of putting to rights. Books were tucked in beside each
other as if they had been picked up and bestowed anyhow; between "Heaven and Hell" and the
"Four Leading Doctrines," she found, one day, "Macdonald's Unspoken Sermons," and there was
a leaf doubled lengthwise in the chapter about the White Stone and the New Name. Another time,
a little book of poems, by the same author, was slid in, open, over the volumes of Darwin and
Huxley, and the pages upon whose outspread faces it lay were those that bore the rhyme of the
blind Bartimeus:--

          "O Jesus Christ! I am deaf and blind;
           Nothing comes through into my mind,
             I only am not dumb:
           Although I see Thee not, nor hear,
           I cry because Thou mayst be near
             O Son of Mary! come!"

Do you think a girl of seventeen may not be feeling out into the spiritual dark,--may not be
stretching helpless hands, vaguely, toward the Hands that help? Desire Ledwith laid the book
down again, with a great swelling breath coming up slowly out of her bosom, and with a warmth
of tears in her earnest little eyes. And Uncle Titus Oldways sat there among his papers, and
never moved, or seemed to look, but saw it all.

He never said a word to her himself; it was not Uncle Titus's way to talk, and few suspected
him of having anything to say in such matters; but he went to Friend Froke and asked her,--

"Haven't you got any light that might shine a little for that child, Rachel?"

And the next Sunday, in the forenoon, Desire came in; came in, without knowing it, for her
little light.

She had left home with the family on their way to church; she was dressed in her buff silk
pongee suit trimmed with golden brown bands and quillings; she had on a lovely new brown hat
with tea roses in it; her gloves and boots were exquisite and many buttoned; Agatha and Florence
could not think what was the matter when she turned back, up Dorset Street, saying suddenly,
"I won't go, after all." And then she had walked straight over the hill and down to Greenley
Street, and came in upon Rachel, sitting alone in a quiet gray parlor that was her own, where
there were ferns and ivies in the window, and a little canary, dressed in brown and gold like
Desire herself, swung over them in a white wire cage.

When Desire saw how still it was, and how Rachel Froke sat there with her open window and her
open book, all by herself, she stopped in the doorway with a sudden feeling of intrusion, which
had not occurred to her as she came.

"It's just what I want to come into; but if I do, it won't be there. I've no right to spoil
it. Don't mind, Rachel. I'll go away."

She said it softly and sadly, as if she could not help it, and was turning back into the hall.

"But I do mind," said Rachel, speaking quickly. "Thee will come in, and sit down. Whatever
it is thee wants, is here for thee. Is it the stillness? Then we will be still."

"That's so easy to say. But you can't do it for me. You will be still, and I shall be all in
a stir. I want so to be just hushed up!"

"Fed, and hushed up, in somebody's arms, like a baby. I know," said Rachel Froke.

"How does she know?" thought Desire; but she only looked at her with surprised eyes, saying
nothing.

"Hungry and restless; that's what we all are," said Rachel Froke, "until"--

"Well,--until?" demanded the strange girl, impetuously, as Rachel paused. "I've been hungry
ever since I was born, mother says."

"Until He takes us up and feeds us."

"Why don't He?--Mrs. Froke, when does He give it out? Once a month, in church, they have the
bread and the wine? Does that do it?"

"Thee knows we do not hold by ordinances, we Friends," said Rachel. "But He gives the bread
of life. Not once a month, or in any place; it is his word. Does thee get no word when thee
goes to church? Does nothing come to thee?"

"I don't know; it's mixed up; the church is full of bonnets; and people settle their gowns
when they come in, and shake out their hitches and puffs when they go out, and there's professional
music at one end, and--I suppose it's because I'm bad, but I don't know; half the time it seems
to me it's only Mig at the other. Something all fixed up, and patted down, and smoothed over,
and salted and buttered, like the potato hills they used to make on my plate for me at dinner,
when I was little. But it's soggy after all, and has an underground taste. It isn't anything
that has just grown, up in the light, like the ears of corn they rubbed in their hands. Breakfast
is better than dinner. Bread, with yeast in it, risen up new. They don't feed with bread very
often."

"The yeast in the bread, and the sparkle in the wine they are the life of it; they are what
make the signs."

"If they only gave it out fresh, and a little of it! But they keep it over, and it grows cold
and tough and flat, and people sit round and pretend, but they don't eat. They've eaten other
things,--all sorts of trash,--before they came. They've spoiled their appetites. Mine was spoiled,
to-day. I felt so new and fussy, in these brown things. So I turned round, and came here."

Mr. Oldways' saying came back into Mrs. Froke's mind:--

"Haven't you got any light, Rachel, that might shine a little for that child?"

Perhaps that was what the child had come for.

What had the word of the Spirit been to Rachel Froke this day? The new, fresh word, with the
leaven in it? "A little of it;" that was what she wanted.

Rachel took up the small red Bible that lay on the lightstand beside her.

"I'll will give thee my First-Day crumb, Desire," she said. "It may taste sweet to thee."

She turned to Revelation, seventh chapter.

"Look over with me; thee will see then where the crumb is," she said; and as Desire came near
and looked over her upon the page, she read from the last two verses:--

"They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more.

Her voice lingered over the words she put for the "Lamb" and the "Throne," so that she said
"Tenderness" with its own very yearning inflection, and "Almightiness" with a strong fullness,
glad in that which can never fall short or be exhausted. Then she softly laid over the cover,
and sat perfectly still. It was the Quaker silence that falls upon them in their assemblies,
leaving each heart to itself and that which the Spirit has given.

Desire was hushed all through; something living and real had thrilled into her thought; her
restlessness quieted suddenly under it, as Mary stood quiet before the message of the angel.

When she did speak again, after a time, as Rachel Froke broke the motionless pause by laying
the book gently back again upon the table, it was to say,--

"Why don't they preach like that, and leave the rest to preach itself? A Sermon means a Word;
why don't they just say the word, and let it go?"

The Friend made no reply.

"I never could--quite--like that about the 'Lamb,' before," said Desire, hesitatingly. "It
seemed,--I don't know,--putting Him down, somehow; making him tame; taking the grandness away
that made the gentleness any good. But,--'Tenderness;' that is beautiful! Does it mean so in
the other place? About taking away the sins,--do you think?"

"'The Tenderness of God--the Compassion--that taketh away the sins of the world?'" Mrs. Froke
repeated, half inquiringly. "Jesus Christ, God's Heart of Love toward man? I think it is so.
I think, child, thee has got thy crumb also, to-day."

But not all yet.

Pretty soon, they heard the front door open, and Uncle Titus come in. Another step was behind
his; and Kenneth Kincaid's voice was speaking, about some book he had called to take.

Desire's face flushed, and her manner grew suddenly flurried.

"I must go," she said, starting up; yet when she got to the door, she paused and delayed.

The voices were talking on, in the study; somehow, Desire had last words also, to say to Mrs.
Froke.

She was partly shy about going past that open door, and partly afraid they might not notice
her if she did. Back in her girlish thought was a secret suggestion that she was pushing at
all the time with a certain self-scorn and denial, that it might happen that she and Kenneth
Kincaid would go out at the same moment; if so, he would walk up the street with her, and Kenneth
Kincaid was one of the few persons whom Desire Ledwith thoroughly believed in and liked. "There
was no Mig about him," she said. It is hazardous when a girl of seventeen makes one of her
rare exceptions in her estimate of character in favor of a man of six and twenty.

Yet Desire Ledwith hated "nonsense;" she wouldn't have anybody sending her bouquets as they
did to Agatha and Florence; she had an utter contempt for lavender pantaloons and waxed moustaches;
but for Kenneth Kincaid, with his honest, clear look at life, and his high strong purpose,
to say friendly things,--tell her a little now and then of how the world looked to him and
what it demanded,--this lifted her up; this made it seem worth while to speak and to hear.

So she was very glad when Uncle Titus saw her go down the hall, after she had made up her mind
that that way lay her straight path, and that things contrived were not things worth happening,--and
spoke out her name, so that she had to stop, and turn to the open doorway and reply; and Kenneth
Kincaid came over and held out his hand to her. He had two books in the other,--a volume of
Bunsen and a copy of "Guild Court,"--and he was just ready to go.

"Not been to church to-day?" said Uncle Titus to Desire.

"I've been--to Friend's Meeting," the girl answered.

"Get anything by that?" he asked, gruffly, letting the shag down over his eyes that behind
it beamed softly.

"Yes; a morsel," replied Desire. "All I wanted."

"All you wanted? Well, that's a Sunday-full!"

"Yes, sir, I think it is," said she.

When they got out upon the sidewalk, Kenneth Kincaid asked, "Was it one of the morsels that
may be shared, Miss Desire? Some crumbs multiply by dividing, you know."

"It was only a verse out of the Bible, with a new word in it."

"A new word? Well, I think Bible verses often have that. I suppose it was what they were made for."

Desire's glance at him had a question in it.

"Made to look different at different times, as everything does that has life in it. Isn't that
true? Clouds, trees, faces,--do they ever look twice the same?"

"Yes," said Desire, thinking especially of the faces. "I think they do, or ought to. But they
may look more."

"I didn't say contradictory. To look more, there must be a difference; a fresh aspect. And
that is what the world is full of; and the world is the word of God."

"The world?" said Desire, who had been taught in a dried up, mechanical sort of way, that the
Bible is the word of God; and practically left to infer that, that point once settled, it might
be safely shut, up between its covers and not much meddled with, certainly not over freely
interpreted.

"Yes. What God had to say. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God. Without him
was not anything made that was made."

Desire's face brightened. She knew those words by heart. They were the first Sunday-school
lesson she ever committed to memory, out of the New Testament; "down to 'grace and truth,'"
as she recollected. What a jumble of repetitions it had been to her, then! Sentences so much
alike that she could not remember them apart, or which way they came. All at once the simple,
beautiful meaning was given to her.

What God had to say.

And it took a world,--millions, of worlds,--to say it with.

"And the Bible, too?" she said, simply following out her own mental perception, without giving
the link. It was not needed. They were upon one track.

"Yes; all things; and all souls. The world-word comes through things; the Bible came through
souls. And it is all the more alive, and full, and deep, and changing; like a river."

"Living fountains of waters! that was part of the morsel to-day," Desire repeated impulsively,
and then shyly explained.

"And the new word?"

Desire shrunk into silence for a moment; she was not used to, or fond of Bible quoting, or
even Bible talk; yet sin was hungering all the time for Bible truth.

Mr. Kincaid waited.

So she repeated it presently; for Desire never made a fuss; she was too really sensitive for that.

"'The Tenderness in the midst of the Almightiness shall feed them, and shall lead them to living
fountains of water.'"

Mr. Kincaid recognized the "new word," and his face lit up.

"'The Lamb in the midst of the Throne,'" he said. "Out of the Heart of God, the Christ. Who
was there before; the intent by which all things were made. The same yesterday, and to-day,
and forever; who ever liveth to make intercession for us. Christ had to be. The Word, full
of grace, must be made flesh. Why need people dispute about Eternity and Divinity, if they
can only see that?--Was that Mrs. Froke's reading?"

"Yes; that was Rachel's sermon."

"It is an illumination."

They walked all up Orchard Street without another word.

Then Kenneth Kincaid said,--"Miss Desire, why won't you come and teach in the Mission School?"

"I teach? Why, I've got everything to learn!"

"But as fast as you do learn; the morsels, you know. That is the way they are given out. That
is the wonder of the kingdom of heaven. There is no need to go away and buy three hundred pennyworth
before we begin, that every one may take a little; the bread given as the Master breaks it
feeds them till they are filled; and there are baskets full of fragments to gather up."

Kenneth Kincaid's heart was in his Sunday work, as his sister had said. The more gladly now,
that the outward daily bread was being given.

Mr. Geoffrey,--one of those busy men, so busy that they do promptly that which their hands
find to do,--had put Kenneth in the way of work. It only needed a word from him, and the surveying
and laying out of some new streets and avenues down there where Boston is growing so big and
grand and strange, were put into his charge. Kenneth was busy now, cheerily busy, from Monday
morning to Saturday night; and restfully busy on the Sunday, straightening the paths and laying
out the ways for souls to walk in. He felt the harmony and the illustration between his week
and his Sunday, and the one strengthening the other, as all true outward work does harmonize
with and show forth, and help the spiritual doing. It could not have been so with that gold
work, or any little feverish hitching on to other men's business; producing nothing, advancing
nothing, only standing between to snatch what might fall, or to keep a premium for passing
from hand to hand.

Our great cities are so full,--our whole country is so overrun,--with these officious middle-men
whom the world does not truly want; chiffonniers of trade, who only pick up a living out of
the great press and waste and overflow; and our boys are so eager to slip in to some such easy,
ready-made opportunity,--to get some crossing to sweep.

What will come of it all, as the pretenses multiply? Will there be always pennies for every
little broom? Will two, and three, and six sweeps be tolerated between side and side? By and
by, I think, they will have to turn to and lay pavements. Hard, honest work, and the day's
pay for it; that is what we have got to go back to; that and the day's snug, patient living,
which the pay achieves.

Then, as I say, the week shall illustrate the Sunday, and the Sunday shall glorify the week;
and what men do and build shall stand true types, again, for the inner growth and the invisible
building; so that if this outer tabernacle were dissolved, there should be seen glorious behind
it, the house not made with hands,--eternal.

As Desire Ledwith met this young Kenneth Kincaid from day to day, seeing him so often at her
Aunt Ripwinkley's, where he and Dorris went in and out now, almost like a son and daughter,--as
she walked beside him this morning, hearing him say these things, at which the heart-longing
in her burned anew toward the real and satisfying,--what wonder was it that her restlessness
grasped at that in his life which was strong and full of rest; that she felt glad and proud
to have him tell his thought to her; that without any silliness,--despising all silliness,--she
should yet be conscious, as girls of seventeen are conscious, of something that made her day
sufficient when she had so met him,--of a temptation to turn into those streets in her walks
that led his way? Or that she often, with her blunt truth, toward herself as well as others,
and her quick contempt of sham and subterfuge, should snub herself mentally, and turn herself
round as by a grasp of her own shoulders, and make herself walk off stoutly in a far and opposite
direction, when, without due need and excuse, she caught herself out in these things?

What wonder that this stood in her way, for very pleasantness, when Kenneth asked her to come
and teach in the school? That she was ashamed to let herself do a thing--even a good thing,
that her life needed,--when there was this conscious charm in the asking; this secret thought--that
she should walk up home with him every Sunday!

She remembered Agatha and Florence, and she imagined, perhaps, more than they would really
have thought of it at home; and so as they turned into Shubarton Place,--for he had kept on
all the way along Bridgeley and up Dorset Street with her,--she checked her steps suddenly
as they came near the door, and said brusquely,--

"No, Mr. Kincaid; I can't come to the Mission. I might learn A, and teach them that; but how
do I know I shall ever learn B, myself?"

He had left his question, as their talk went on, meaning to ask it again before they separated.
He thought it was prevailing with her, and that the help that comes of helping others would
reach her need; it was for her sake he asked it; he was disappointed at the sudden, almost
trivial turn she gave it.

"You have taken up another analogy, Miss Desire," he said. "We were talking about crumbs and
feeding. The five loaves and the five thousand. 'Why reason ye because ye have no bread? How
is it that ye do not understand?'"

Kenneth quoted these words naturally, pleasantly; as he might quote anything that had been
spoken to them both out of a love and authority they both recognized, a little while ago.

But Desire was suddenly sharp and fractious. If it had not touched some deep, live place in
her, she would not have minded so much. It was partly, too, the coming toward home. She had
got away out of the pure, clear spaces where such things seemed to be fit and unstrained, into
the edge of her earth atmosphere again, where, falling, they took fire. Presently she would
be in that ridiculous pink room, and Glossy Megilp would be chattering about "those lovely
purple poppies with the black grass," that she had been lamenting all the morning she had not
bought for her chip hat, instead of the pomegranate flowers. And Agatha would be on the bed,
in her cashmere sack, reading Miss Braddon.

"It would sound nice to tell them she was going down to the Mission School to give out crumbs!"

Besides, I suppose that persons of a certain temperament never utter a more ungracious "No,"
than when they are longing all the time to say "Yes."

So she turned round on the lower step to Kenneth, when he had asked that grave, sweet question
of the Lord's, and said perversely,--

"I thought you did not believe in any brokering kind of business. It's all there,--for everybody.
Why should I set up to fetch and carry?"

She did not look in his face as she said it; she was not audacious enough to do that; she poked
with the stick of her sunshade between the uneven bricks of the sidewalk, keeping her eyes
down, as if she watched for some truth she expected to pry up. But she only wedged the stick
in so that she could not get it out; and Kenneth Kincaid making her absolutely no answer at
all, she had to stand there, growing red and ashamed, held fast by her own silly trap.

"Take care; you will break it," said Kenneth, quietly, as she gave it a twist and a wrench.
And he put out his hand, and took it from hers, and drew gently upward in the line in which
she had thrust it in.

"You were bearing off at an angle. It wanted a straight pull."

"I never pull straight at anything. I always get into a crook, somehow. You didn't answer me,
Mr. Kincaid. I didn't mean to be rude--or wicked. I didn't mean--"

"What you said. I know that; and it's no use to answer what people don't mean. That makes the
crookedest crook of all."

"But I think I did mean it partly; only not contrarimindedly. I do mean that I have no business--yet
awhile. It would only be--Migging at gospel!"

And with this remarkable application of her favorite illustrative expression, she made a friendly
but abrupt motion of leave-taking, and went into the house.

Up into her own room, in the third story, where the old furniture was, and no "fadging,"--and
sat down, bonnet, gloves, sunshade, and all, in her little cane rocking-chair by the window.

Helena was down in the pink room, listening with charmed ears to the grown up young-ladyisms
of her elder sisters and Glossy Megilp.

Desire sat still until the dinner-bell rang, forgetful of her dress, forgetful of all but one
thought that she spoke out as she rose at last at the summons to take off her things in a hurry,--

"I wonder,--I wonder--if I shall ever live anything all straight out!"

XIII.

PIECES OF WORLDS.

Mr. Dickens never put a truer thought into any book, than he put at the beginning of "Little
Dorrit."

That, from over land and sea, from hundreds, thousands of miles away, are coming the people
with whom we are to have to do in our lives; and that, "what is set to us to do to them, and
what is set for them to do to us, will all be done."

Not only from far places in this earth, over land and sea,--but from out the eternities, before
and after,--from which souls are born, and into which they die,--all the lines of life are
moving continually which are to meet and join, and bend, and cross our own.

But it is only with a little piece of this world, as far as we can see it in this short and
simple story, that we have now to do.

Rosamond Holabird was coming down to Boston.

With all her pretty, fresh, delicate, high-lady ways, with her beautiful looks, and her sweet
readiness for true things and noble living, she was coming, for a few days only,--the cooperative
housekeeping was going on at Westover, and she could not be spared long,--right in among them
here in Aspen Street, and Shubarton Place, and Orchard Street, and Harrisburg Square, where
Mrs. Scherman lived whom she was going to stay with. But a few days may be a great deal.

Rosamond Holabird was coming for far more than she knew. Among other things she was coming
to get a lesson; a lesson right on in a course she was just now learning; a lesson of next
things, and best things, and real folks.

You see how it happened,--where the links were; Miss Craydocke, and Sin Scherman, and Leslie
Goldthwaite, were dear friends, made to each other one summer among the mountains. Leslie had
had Sin and Miss Craydocke up at Z----, and Rosamond and Leslie were friends, also.

Mrs. Frank Scherman had a pretty house in Harrisburg Square. She had not much time for paying
fashionable calls, or party-going, or party-giving. As to the last, she did not think Frank
had money enough yet to "circumfuse," she said, in that way.

But she had six lovely little harlequin cups on a side-shelf in her china closet, and six different-patterned
breakfast plates, with colored borders to match the cups; rose, and brown, and gray, and vermilion,
and green, and blue. These were all the real china she had, and were for Frank and herself
and the friends whom she made welcome,--and who might come four at once,--for day and night.
She delighted in "little stays;" in girls who would go into the nursery with her, and see Sinsie
in her bath; or into the kitchen, and help her mix up "little delectabilities to surprise Frank
with;" only the trouble had got to be now, that the surprise occurred when the delectabilities
did not. Frank had got demoralized, and expected them. She rejoiced to have Miss Craydocke
drop in of a morning and come right up stairs, with her little petticoats and things to work
on; and she and Frank returned these visits in a social, cosy way, after Sinsie was in her
crib for the night. Frank's boots never went on with a struggle for a walk down to Orchard
Street; but they were terribly impossible for Continuation Avenue.

So it had come about long ago, though I have not had a corner to mention it in, that they "knew
the Muffin Man," in an Aspen Street sense; and were no strangers to the charm of Mrs. Ripwinkley's
"evenings." There was always an "evening" in the "Mile Hill House," as the little family and
friendly coterie had come to call it.

Rosamond and Leslie had been down together for a week once, at the Schermans; and this time
Rosamond was coming alone. She had business in Boston for a day or two, and had written to
ask Asenath "if she might." There were things to buy for Barbara, who was going to be married
in a "navy hurry," besides an especial matter that had determined her just at this time to come.

And Asenath answered, "that the scarlet and gray, and green and blue were pining and fading
on the shelf; and four days would be the very least to give them all a turn and treat them
fairly; for such things had their delicate susceptibilities, as Hans Andersen had taught us
to know, and might starve and suffer,--why not? being made of protoplasm, same as anybody."

Rosamond's especial errand to the city was one that just a little set her up, innocently, in
her mind. She had not wholly got the better,--when it interfered with no good-will or generous
dealing,--of a certain little instinctive reverence for imposing outsides and grand ways of
daily doing; and she was somewhat complacent at the idea of having to go,--with kindly and
needful information,--to Madam Mucklegrand, in Spreadsplendid Park.

Madam Mucklegrand was a well-born Boston lady, who had gone to Europe in her early youth, and
married a Scottish gentleman with a Sir before his name. Consequently, she was quite entitled
to be called "my lady;" and some people who liked the opportunity of touching their republican
tongues to the salt of European dignitaries, addressed her so; but, for the most part, she
assumed and received simply the style of "Madam." A queen may be called "Madam," you know.
It covers an indefinite greatness. But when she spoke of her late,--very long ago,--husband,
she always named him as "Sir Archibald."

Madam Mucklegrand's daughter wanted a wet-nurse for her little baby.

Up in Z----, there was a poor woman whose husband, a young brakeman on the railroad, had been
suddenly killed three months ago, before her child was born. There was a sister here in Boston,
who could take care of it for her if she could go to be foster-mother to some rich little baby,
who was yet so poor as this--to need one. So Rosamond Holabird, who was especially interested
for Mrs. Jopson, had written to Asenath, and had an advertisement put in the "Transcript,"
referring to Mrs. Scherman for information. And the Mucklegrand carriage had rolled up, the
next day, to the house in Harrisburg Square.

They wanted to see the woman, of course, and to hear all about her,--more than Mrs. Scherman
was quite able to tell; therefore when she sent a little note up to Z----, by the evening mail,
Rosamond replied with her "Might she come?"

She brought Jane Jopson and the baby down with her, left them over night at Mrs. Ginnever's,
in Sheafe Street, and was to go for them next morning and take them up to Spreadsplendid Park.
She had sent a graceful, polite little note to Madam Mucklegrand, dated "Westover, Z----,"
and signed, "Rosamond Holabird," offering to do this, that there might not be the danger of
Jane's losing the chance in the meanwhile.

It was certainly to accomplish the good deed that Rosamond cared the most; but it was also
certainly something to accomplish it in that very high quarter. It lent a piquancy to the occasion.

She came down to breakfast very nicely and discriminatingly dressed, with the elegant quietness
of a lady who knew what was simply appropriate to such an errand and the early hour, but who
meant to be recognized as the lady in every unmistakable touch; and there was a carriage ordered
for her at half past nine.

Sin Scherman was a cute little matron; she discerned the dash of subdued importance in Rosamond's
air; and she thought it very likely, in the Boston nature of things, that it would get wholesomely
and civilly toned down.

Just at this moment, Rosamond, putting on her little straw bonnet with real lace upon it, and
her simple little narrow-bordered green shawl, that was yet, as far as it went, veritable cashmere,--had
a consciousness, in a still, modest way, not only of her own personal dignity as Rosamond Holabird,
who was the same going to see Madam Mucklegrand, or walking over to Madam Pennington's, and
as much in her place with one as the other; but of the dignity of Westover itself, and Westover
ladyhood, represented by her among the palaces of Boston-Appendix to-day.

She was only twenty, this fair and pleasant Rosamond of ours, and country simple, with all
her native tact and grace; and she forgot, or did not know how full of impressions a life like
Madam Mucklegrand's might be, and how very trifling and fleeting must be any that she might
chance to make.

She drove away down to the North End, and took Jane Jopson and her baby in,--very clean and
shiny, both of them,--and Jane particularly nice in the little black crape bonnet that Rosamond
herself had made, and the plain black shawl that Mrs. Holabird had given her.

She stood at the head of the high, broad steps, with her mind very much made up in regard to
her complete and well-bred self-possession, and the manner of her quietly assured self-introduction.
She had her card all ready that should explain for her; and to the servant's reply that Madam
Mucklegrand was in, she responded by moving forward with only enough of voluntary hesitation
to allow him to indicate to her the reception room, at the door of which she gave him the little
pasteboard, with,--

"Take that to her, if you please," and so sat down, very much as if she had been in such places
frequently before, which she never had. One may be quite used to the fine, free essence of
gentle living, and never in all one's life have anything to do with such solid, concrete expression
of it as Rosamond saw here.

Very high, to begin with, the ceiled and paneled room was; reaching up into space as if it
had really been of no consequence to the builders where they should put the cover on; and with
no remotest suggestion of any reserve for further superstructure upon the same foundation.

Very dark, and polished, and deeply carved, and heavily ornamented were its wainscotings, and
frames, and cornices; out of the new look of the streets, which it will take them yet a great
while to outgrow, she had stepped at once into a grand, and mellow, and ancient stateliness.

There were dim old portraits on the walls, and paintings that hinted at old mastership filled
whole panels; and the tall, high-backed, wonderfully wrought oaken chairs had heraldic devices
in relief upon their bars and corners; and there was a great, round mosaic table, in soft,
rich, dark colors, of most precious stones; these, in turn, hidden with piles of rare engravings.

The floor was of dark woods, inlaid; and sumptuous rugs were put about upon it for the feet,
each one of which was wide enough to call a carpet.

And nothing of it all was new; there was nothing in the room but some plants in a jardiniere
by the window, that seemed to have a bit of yesterday's growth upon it.

A great, calm, marble face of Jove looked down from high up, out of the shadows.

Underneath sat Rosamond Holabird, holding on to her identity and her self-confidence.

Madam Mucklegrand came in plainly enough dressed,--in black; you would not notice what she
had on; but you would notice instantly the consummate usedness to the world and the hardening
into the mould thereof that was set and furrowed upon eye and lip and brow.

She sailed down upon Rosamond like a frigate upon a graceful little pinnace; and brought to
within a pace or two of her, continuing to stand an instant, as Rosamond rose, just long enough
for the shadow of a suggestion that it might not be altogether material that she should be
seated again at all.

But Rosamond made a movement backward to her chair, and laid her hand upon its arm, and then
Madam Mucklegrand decided to sit down.

"You called about the nurse, I conclude, Miss--Holabird?"

"Yes, ma'am; I thought you had some questions you wished to ask, and that I had better come
myself. I have her with me, in the carriage."

"Thank you," said Madam Mucklegrand, politely.

But it was rather a de haut en bas politeness; she exercised it also toward her footman.

Then followed inquiries about age, and health, and character. Rosamond told all she knew, clearly
and sufficiently, with some little sympathetic touches that she could not help, in giving her
story.

Madam Mucklegrand met her nowhere, however, on any common ground; she passed over all personal
interest; instead of two women befriending a third in her need, who in turn was to give life
to a little child waiting helplessly for some such ministry, it might have been the leasing
of a house, or the dealing about some merchandise, that was between them.

Rosamond proposed, at last, to send Jane Jopson in.

Jane and her baby were had in, and had up-stairs; the physician and attending nurse pronounced
upon her; she was brought down again, to go home and dispose of her child, and return. Rosamond,
meanwhile, had been sitting under the marble Jove.

There was nothing really rude in it; she was there on business; what more could she expect?
But then she knew all the time, that she too was a lady, and was taking trouble to do a kind
thing. It was not so that Madam Mucklegrand would have been treated at Westover.

Rosamond was feeling pretty proud by the time Madam Mucklegrand came down stairs.

"We have engaged the young woman: the doctor quite approves; she will return without delay,
I hope?"

As if Rosamond were somehow responsible all through.

"I have no doubt she will; good morning, madam."

"Good morning. I am, really, very much obliged. You have been of great service."

Rosamond turned quietly round upon the threshold.

"That was what I was very anxious to be," she said, in her perfectly sweet and musical voice,--"to
the poor woman."

Italics would indicate too coarsely the impalpable emphasis she put upon the last two words.
But Mrs. Mucklegrand caught it.

Rosamond went away quite as sure of her own self-respect as ever, but very considerably cured
of Spreadsplendidism.

This was but one phase of it, she knew; there are real folks, also, in Spreadsplendid Park;
they are a good deal covered up, there, to be sure; but they can't help that. It is what always
happens to somebody when Pyramids are built. Madam Mucklegrand herself was, perhaps, only a
good deal covered up.

How lovely it was to go down into Orchard Street after that, and take tea with Miss Craydocke!
How human and true it seemed,--the friendliness that shone and breathed there, among them all.
How kingdom-of-heaven-like the air was, and into what pleasantness of speech it was born!

And then Hazel Ripwinkley came over, like a little spirit from another blessed society, to
tell that "the picture-book things were all ready, and that it would take everybody to help."

That was Rosamond's first glimpse of Witch Hazel, who found her out instantly,--the real, Holabirdy
part of her,--and set her down at once among her "folks."

It was bright and cheery in Mrs. Ripwinkley's parlor; you could hardly tell whence the cheeriness
radiated, either.

The bright German lamp was cheery, in the middle of the round table; the table was cheery,
covered with glossy linen cut into large, square book-sheets laid in piles, and with gay pictures
of all kinds, brightly colored; and the scissors,--or scissorses,--there were ever so many
shining pairs of them,--and the little mucilage bottles, and the very scrap-baskets,--all looked
cozy and comfortable, and as if people were going to have a real good time among them, somehow.

And the somehow was in making great beautiful, everlasting picture-books for the little orphans
in Miss Craydocke's Home,--the Home, that is, out of several blessed and similar ones that
she was especially interested in, and where Hazel and Diana had been with her until they knew
all the little waifs by sight and name and heart, and had their especial chosen property among
them, as they used to have among the chickens and the little yellow ducks at Homesworth Farm.

Mrs. Ripwinkley was cheery; it might be a question whether all the light did not come from
her first, in some way, and perhaps it did; but then Hazel was luminous, and she fluttered
about with quick, happy motions, till like a little glancing taper she had shone upon and lit
up everybody and everything; and Dorris was sunny with clear content, and Kenneth was blithe,
and Desire was scintillant, as she always was either with snaps or smiles; and here came in
beaming Miss Craydocke, and gay Asenath and her handsome husband; and our Rosa Mundi; there,--how
can you tell? It was all round; and it was more every minute.

There were cutters and pasters and stitchers and binders and every part was beautiful work,
and nobody could tell which was pleasantest. Cutting out was nice, of course; who doesn't like
cutting out pictures? Some were done beforehand, but there were as many left as there would
be time for. And pasting, on the fine, smooth linen, making it glow out with charming groups
and tints of flowers and birds and children in gay clothes,--that was delightful; and the stitchers
had the pleasure of combining and arranging it all; and the binders,--Mrs. Ripwinkley and Miss
Craydocke,--finished all off with the pretty ribbons and the gray covers, and theirs being
the completing touch, thought they had the best of it.

"But I don't think finishing is best, mother," said Hazel, who was diligently snipping in and
out around rose leaves or baby faces, as it happened. "I think beginning is always beautiful.
I never want to end off,--anything nice, I mean."

"Well, we don't end off this," said Diana. "There's the giving, next."

"And then their little laughs and Oo's," said Hazel.

"And their delight day after day; and the comfort of them in their little sicknesses," said
Miss Craydocke.

"And the stories that have got to be told about every picture," said Dorris.

"No; nothing really nice does end; it goes on and on," said Mrs. Ripwinkley.

"Of course!" said Hazel, triumphantly, turning on the Drummond light of her child-faith. "We're
forever and ever people, you know!"

"Please paste some more flowers, Mr. Kincaid," said Rosamond, who sat next him, stitching.
"I want to make an all-flower book of this. No,--not roses; I've a whole page already; this
great white lily, I think. That's beautiful!"

"Wouldn't it do to put in this laurel bush next, with the bird's nest in it?"

"O, those lovely pink and white laurels! Yes. Where did you get such pictures, Miss Hazel?"

"O, everybody gave them to us, all summer, ever since we began. Mrs. Geoffrey gave those flowers;
and mother painted some. She did that laurel. But don't call me Miss Hazel, please; it seems
to send me off into a corner."

Rosamond answered by a little irresistible caress; leaning her head down to Hazel, on her other
side, until her cheek touched the child's bright curls, quickly and softly. There was magnetism
between those two.

Ah, the magnetism ran round!

"For a child's picture-book, Mrs. Ripwinkley?" said Mrs. Scherman, reaching over for the laurel
picture. "Aren't these almost too exquisite? They would like a big scarlet poppy just as well,--perhaps
better. Or a clump of cat-o'-nine-tails," she added, whimsically.

"There is a clump of cat-o'-nine-tails," said Mrs. Ripwinkley. "I remember how I used to delight
in them as a child,--the real ones."

"Pictures are to tell things," said Desire, in her brief way.

"These little city refugees must see them, somehow," said Rosamond, gently. "I understand.
They will never get up on the mountains, maybe, where the laurels grow, or into the shady swamps
among the flags and the cat-o'-nine-tails. You have picked out pictures to give them, Mrs.
Ripwinkley."

Kenneth Kincaid's scissors stopped a moment, as he looked at Rosamond, pausing also over the
placing of her leaves.

Desire saw that from the other side; she saw how beautiful and gracious this girl was--this
Rosamond Holabird; and there was a strange little twinge in her heart, as she felt, suddenly,
that let there be ever so much that was true and kindly, or even tender, in her, it could never
come up in her eyes or play upon her lips like that she could never say it out sweetly and
in due place everything was a spasm with her; and nobody would ever look at her just as Kenneth
Kincaid looked at Rosamond then.

She said to herself, with her harsh, unsparing honesty, that it must be a "hitch inside;" a
cramp or an awkwardness born in her, that set her eyes, peering and sharp, so near together,
and put that knot into her brows instead of their widening placidly, like Rosamond's, and made
her jerky in her speech. It was no use; she couldn't look and behave, because she couldn't
be; she must just go boggling and kinking on, and--losing everything, she supposed.

The smiles went down, under a swift, bitter little cloud, and the hard twist came into her
face with the inward pinching she was giving herself; and all at once there crackled out one
of her sharp, strange questions; for it was true that she could not do otherwise; everything
was sudden and crepitant with her.

"Why need all the good be done up in batches, I wonder? Why can't it be spread round, a little
more even? There must have been a good deal left out somewhere, to make it come in a heap,
so, upon you, Miss Craydocke!"

Hazel looked up.

"I know what Desire means," she said. "It seemed just so to me, one way. Why oughtn't there
to be little homes, done-by-hand homes, for all these little children, instead of--well--machining
them all up together?"

And Hazel laughed at her own conceit.

"It's nice; but then--it isn't just the way. If we were all brought up like that we shouldn't
know, you see!"

"You wouldn't want to be brought up in a platoon, Hazel?" said Kenneth Kincaid. "No; neither
should I."

"I think it was better," said Hazel, "to have my turn of being a little child, all to myself;
the little child, I mean, with the rest of the folks bigger. To make much of me, you know.
I shouldn't want to have missed that. I shouldn't like to be loved in a platoon."

"Nobody is meant to be," said Miss Craydocke.

"Then why--" began Asenath Scherman, and stopped.

"Why what, dear?"

"Revelations," replied Sin, laconically. "There are loads of people there, all dressed alike,
you know; and--well--it's platoony, I think, rather! And down here, such a world-full; and
the sky--full of worlds. There doesn't seem to be much notion of one at a time, in the general
plan of things."

"Ah, but we've got the key to all that," said Miss Craydocke. "'The very hairs of your head
are all numbered.' It may be impossible with us, you know, but not with Him."

"Miss Hapsie! you always did put me down, just when I thought I was smart," said Sin Scherman.

Asenath loved to say "Miss Hapsie," now and then, to her friend, ever since she had found out
what she called her "squee little name."

"But the little children, Miss Craydocke," said Mrs. Ripwinkley. "It seems to me Desire has
got a right thought about it."

Mrs. Ripwinkley and Hazel always struck the same note. The same delicate instinct moved them
both. Hazel "knew what Desire meant;" her mother did not let it be lost sight of that it was
Desire who had led the way in this thought of the children; so that the abrupt beginning--the
little flash out of the cloud--was quite forgotten presently, in the tone of hearty understanding
and genuine interest with which the talk went on; and it was as if all that was generous and
mindfully suggestive in it had first and truly come from her. They unfolded herself for her--these
friendly ones--as she could not do; out of her bluntness grew a graciousness that lay softly
over it; the cloud itself melted away and floated off; and Desire began to sparkle again more
lambently. For she was not one of the kind to be meanly or enviously "put out."

"It seemed to me there must be a great many spare little corners somewhere, for all these spare
little children," she said, "and that, lumped up together so, there was something they did
not get."

"That is precisely the thing," said Miss Craydocke, emphatically. "I wonder, sometimes," she
went on, tenderly, "if whenever God makes a little empty place in a home, it isn't really on
purpose that it might be filled with one of these,--if people only thought."

"Miss Craydocke," said Hazel, "how did you begin your beehive?"

"I!" said the good lady. "I didn't. It began itself."

"Well, then, how did you let it begin?"

"Ah!"

The tone was admissive, and as if she had said, "That is another thing!" She could not contradict
that she had let it be.

"I'll tell you a queer story," she said, "of what they say they used to do, in old Roman Catholic
times and places, when they wanted to keep up a beehive that was in any danger of dwindling
or growing unprofitable. I read it somewhere in a book of popular beliefs and customs about
bees and other interesting animals. An old woman once went to her friend, and asked her what
she did to make her hive so gainful. And this was what the old wife said; it sounds rather
strange to us, but if there is anything irreverent in it, it is the word and not the meaning;
'I go,' she said, 'to the priest, and get a little round Godamighty, and put it in the hive,
and then all goes well; the bees thrive, and there is plenty of honey; they always come, and
stay, and work, when that is there."

"A little round--something awful! what did she mean?" asked Mrs. Scherman.

"She meant a consecrated wafer,--the Sacrament. We don't need to put the wafer in; but if we
let Him in, you see,--just say to Him it is his house, to do with as He likes,--He takes the
responsibility, and brings in all the rest."

Nobody saw, under the knitting of Desire Ledwith's brows, and the close setting of her eyes,
the tenderness with which they suddenly moistened, and the earnestness with which they gleamed.
Nobody knew how she thought to herself inwardly, in the same spasmodic fashion that she used
for speech,--

"They Mig up their parlors with upholstery, and put rose-colored paper on their walls, and
call them their houses; and shut the little round awfulness and goodness out! We've all been
doing it! And there's no place left for what might come in."

Mrs. Scherman broke the hush that followed what Miss Hapsie said. Not hastily, or impertinently;
but when it seemed as if it might be a little hard to come down into the picture-books and
the pleasant easiness again.

"Let's make a Noah's Ark picture-book,--you and I," she said to Desire. "Give us all your animals,--there's
a whole Natural History full over there, all painted with splendid daubs of colors; the children
did that, I know, when they were children. Come; we'll have everything in, from an elephant
to a bumble-bee!"

"We did not mean to use those, Mrs. Scherman," said Desire. "We did not think they were good
enough. They are so daubed up."

"They're perfectly beautiful. Exactly what the young ones will like. Just divide round, and
help. We'll wind up with the most wonderful book of all; the book they'll all cry for, and
that will have to be given always, directly after the Castor Oil."

It took them more than an hour to do that, all working hard; and a wonderful thing it was truly,
when it was done. Mrs. Scherman and Desire Ledwith directed all the putting together, and the
grouping was something astonishing.

There were men and women,--the Knowers, Sin called them; she said that was what she always
thought the old gentleman's name was, in the days when she first heard of him, because he knew
so much; and in the backgrounds of the same sheets were their country cousins, the orangs,
and the little apes. Then came the elephants, and the camels, and the whales; "for why shouldn't
the fishes be put in, since they must all have been swimming round sociably, if they weren't
inside; and why shouldn't the big people be all kept together properly?"

There were happy families of dogs and cats and lions and snakes and little humming-birds; and
in the last part were all manner of bugs, down to the little lady-bugs in blazes of red and
gold, and the gray fleas and mosquitoes which Sin improvised with pen and ink, in a swarm at
the end.

"And after that, I don't believe they wanted any more," she said; and handed over the parts
to Miss Craydocke to be tied together. For this volume had had to be made in many folds, and
Mrs. Ripwinkley's blue ribbon would by no means stretch over the back.

And by that time it was eleven o'clock, and they had worked four hours. They all jumped up
in a great hurry then, and began to say good-by.

"This must not be the last we are to have of you, Miss Holabird," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, laying
Rosamond's shawl across her shoulders.

"Of course not," said Mrs Scherman, "when you are all coming to our house to tea to-morrow night."

Rosamond bade the Ripwinkleys good-night with a most sweet cordiality, and thanks for the pleasure
she had had, and she told Hazel and her mother that it was "neither beginning nor end, she
believed; for it seemed to her that she had only found a little new piece of her world, and
that Aspen Street led right out of Westover in the invisible geography, she was sure."

"Come!" said Miss Craydocke, standing on the doorsteps. "It is all invisible geography out
here, pretty nearly; and we've all our different ways to go, and only these two unhappy gentlemen
to insist on seeing everybody home."

So first the whole party went round with Miss Hapsie, and then Kenneth and Dorris, who always
went home with Desire, walked up Hanley Street with the Schermans and Rosamond, and so across
through Dane Street to Shubarton Place.

But while they were on their way, Hazel Ripwinkley was saying to her mother, up in her room,
where they made sometimes such long good-nights,--

"Mother! there were some little children taken away from you before we came, you know? And
now we've got this great big house, and plenty of things, more than it takes for us."

"Well?"

"Don't you think it's expected that we should do something with the corners? There's room for
some real good little times for somebody. I think we ought to begin a beehive."

Mrs. Ripwinkley kissed Hazel very tenderly, and said, only,--

"We can wait, and see."

Those are just the words that mothers so often put children off with! But Mrs. Ripwinkley,
being one of the real folks, meant it; the very heart of it.

In that little talk, they took the consecration in; they would wait and see; when people do
that, with an expectation, the beehive begins.

       *       *       *       *       *

Up Hanley Street, the six fell into pairs.

Mrs. Scherman and Desire, Dorris and Mr. Scherman, Rosamond and Kenneth Kincaid.

It only took from Bridgeley Street up to Dane, to tell Kenneth Kincaid so much about Westover,
in answer to his questions, that he too thought he had found a new little piece of his world.
What Rosamond thought, I do not know; but a girl never gives a young man so much as she gave
Kenneth in that little walk without having some of the blessed consciousness that comes with
giving. The sun knows it shines, I dare say; or else there is a great waste of hydrogen and
other things.

There was not much left for poor little Desire after they parted from the Schermans and turned
the corner of Dane Street. Only a little bit of a way, in which new talk could hardly begin,
and just time for a pause that showed how the talk that had come to an end was missed or how,
perhaps, it stayed in the mind, repeating itself, and keeping it full.

Nobody said anything till they had crossed B---- Street; and then Dorris said, "How beautiful,--real
beautiful, Rosamond Holabird is!" And Kenneth answered, "Did you hear what she said to Mrs.
Ripwinkley?"

They were full of Rosamond! Desire did not speak a word.

Dorris had heard and said it over. It seemed to please Kenneth to hear it again. "A piece of
her world!"

"How quickly a true person springs to what belongs to--their life!" said Kenneth, using that
wrong little pronoun that we shall never be able to do without.

"People don't always get what belongs, though," blurted Desire at last, just as they came to
the long doorsteps. "Some people's lives are like complementary colors, I think; they see blue,
and live red!"

"But the colors are only accidentally--I mean temporarily--divided; they are together in the
sun; and they join somewhere--beyond."

"I hate beyond!" said Desire, recklessly. "Good-night. Thank you." And she ran up the steps.

Nobody knew what she meant. Perhaps she hardly knew herself.

They only thought that her home life was not suited to her, and that she took it hard.

XIV.

"SESAME; AND LILIES."

"I've got a discouragement at my stomach," said Luclarion Grapp.

"What's the matter?" asked Mrs. Ripwinkley, naturally.

"Mrs. Scarup. I've been there. There ain't any bottom to it."

"Well?"

Mrs. Ripwinkley knew that Luclarion had more to say, and that she waited for this monosyllable.

"She's sick again. And Scarup, he's gone out West, spending a hundred dollars to see whether
or no there's a chance anywhere for a smart man,--and that ain't he, so it's a double waste,--to
make fifty. No girl; and the children all under foot, and Pinkie looking miserable over the
dishes."

"Pinkie isn't strong."

"No. She's powerful weak. I just wish you'd seen that dirty settin'-room fire-place; looks
as if it hadn't been touched since Scarup smoked his pipe there, the night before he went off
a wild-gandering. And clo'es to be ironed, and the girl cleared out, because 'she'd always
been used to fust-class families.' There wasn't anything to your hand, and you couldn't tell
where to begin, unless you began with a cataplasm!"

Luclarion had heard, by chance, of a cataclysm, and that was what she meant.

"It wants--creation, over again! Mrs. Scarup hadn't any fit breakfast; there was burnt toast,
made out of tough bread, that she'd been trying to eat; and a cup of tea, half drunk; something
the matter with that, I presume. I'd have made her some gruel, if there'd been a fire; and
if there'd been any kindlings, I'd have made her a fire; but there 'twas; there wasn't any
bottom to it!"

"You had better make the gruel here, Luclarion."

"That's what I come back for. But--Mrs. Ripwinkley!"

"Well?"

"Don't it appear to you it's a kind of a stump? I don't want to do it just for the satisfaction;
though it would be a satisfaction to plough everything up thorough, and then rake it over smooth;
what do you think?"

"What have you thought, Luclarion? Something, of course."

"She wants a real smart girl--for two dollars a week. She can't get her, because she ain't.
And I kind of felt as though I should like to put in. Seemed to me it was a--but there! I haven't
any right to stump you."

"Wouldn't it be rather an aggravation? I don't suppose you would mean to stay altogether?"

"Not unless--but don't go putting it into my head, Mrs. Ripwinkley. I shall feel as if I was.
And I don't think it goes quite so far as that, yet. We ain't never stumped to more than one
thing at a time. What she wants is to be straightened out. And when things once looked my way,
she might get a girl, you see. Anyhow, 'twould encourage Pinkie, and kind of set her going.
Pinkie likes things nice; but it's such a Hoosac tunnel to undertake, that she just lets it
all go, and gets off up-stairs, and sticks a ribbon in her hair. That's all she can do. I s'pose
'twould take a fortnight, maybe?"

"Take it, Luclarion," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, smiling. Luclarion understood the smile.

"I s'pose you think it's as good as took. Well, perhaps it is--spoke for. But it wasn't me,
you know. Now what'll you do?"

"Go into the kitchen and make the pudding."

"But then?"

"We are not stumped for then, you know."

"There was a colored girl here yesterday, from up in Garden Street, asking if there was any
help wanted. I think she came in partially, to look at the flowers; the 'sturtiums are splendid,
and I gave her some. She was awfully dressed up,--for colors, I mean; but she looked clean
and pleasant, and spoke bright. Maybe she'd come, temporary. She seemed taken with things.
I know where to find her, and I could go there when I got through with the gruel. Mrs. Scarup
must have that right off."

And Luclarion hurried away.

It was not the first time Mrs. Ripwinkley had lent Luclarion; but Miss Grapp had not found
a kitchen mission in Boston heretofore. It was something new to bring the fashion of simple,
prompt, neighborly help down intact from the hills, and apply it here to the tangle of city
living, that is made up of so many separate and unrecognized struggles.

When Hazel came home from school, she went all the way up the garden walk, and in at the kitchen
door. "That was the way she took it all," she said; "first the flowers, and then Luclarion
and what they had for dinner, and a drink of water; and then up-stairs, to mother."

To-day she encountered in the kitchen a curious and startling apparition of change.

A very dusky brown maiden, with a petticoat of flashing purple, and a jacket of crimson, and
extremely puzzling hair tied up with knots of corn color, stood in possession over the stove,
tending a fricassee, of which Hazel recognized at once the preparation and savor as her mother's;
while beside her on a cricket, munching cold biscuit and butter with round, large bites of
very white little teeth, sat a small girl of five of the same color, gleaming and twinkling
as nothing human ever does gleam and twinkle but a little darkie child.

"Where is Luclarion?" asked Hazel, standing still in the middle of the floor, in her astonishment.

"I don't know. I'm Damaris, and this one's little Vash. Don't go for callin' me Dam, now; the
boys did that in my last place, an' I left, don' yer see? I ain't goin' to be swore to, anyhow!"

And Damaris glittered at Hazel, with her shining teeth and her quick eyes, full of fun and
good humor, and enjoyed her end of the joke extremely.

"Have you come to stay?" asked Hazel.

"'Course. I don' mostly come for to go."

"What does it mean, mother?" Hazel asked, hurrying up into her mother's room.

And then Mrs. Ripwinkley explained.

"But what is she? Black or white? She's got straight braids and curls at the back of her head,
like everybody's"--

"'Course," said a voice in the doorway. "An' wool on top,--place where wool ought to grow,--same's
everybody, too."

Damaris had come up, according to orders, to report a certain point in the progress of the
fricassee.

"They all pulls the wool over they eyes, now-days, an sticks the straight on behind. Where's
the difference?"

Mrs. Ripwinkley made some haste to rise and move toward the doorway, to go down stairs, turning
Damaris from her position, and checking further remark. Diana and Hazel stayed behind, and
laughed. "What fun!" they said.

It was the beginning of a funny fortnight; but it is not the fun I have paused to tell you
of; something more came of it in the home-life of the Ripwinkleys; that which they were "waiting
to see."

Damaris wanted a place where she could take her little sister; she was tired of leaving her
"shyin' round," she said. And Vash, with her round, fuzzy head, her bright eyes, her little
flashing teeth, and her polished mahogany skin,--darting up and down the house "on Aarons,"
or for mere play,--dressed in her gay little scarlet flannel shirt-waist, and black and orange
striped petticoat,--was like some "splendid, queer little fire-bug," Hazel said, and made a
surprise and a picture wherever she came. She was "cute," too, as Damaris had declared beforehand;
she was a little wonder at noticing and remembering, and for all sorts of handiness that a
child of five could possibly be put to.

Hazel dressed rag babies for her, and made her a soap-box baby-house in the corner of the kitchen,
and taught her her letters; and began to think that she should hate to have her go when Luclarion
came back.

Damaris proved clever and teachable in the kitchen; and had, above all, the rare and admirable
disposition to keep things scrupulously as she had found them; so that Luclarion, in her afternoon
trips home, was comforted greatly to find that while she was "clearing and ploughing" at Mrs.
Scarup's, her own garden of neatness was not being turned into a howling wilderness; and she
observed, as is often done so astutely, that "when you do find a neat, capable, colored help,
it's as good help as you can have." Which you may notice is just as true without the third
adjective as with.

Luclarion herself was having a splendid time.

The first thing she did was to announce to Mrs. Scarup that she was out of her place for two
weeks, and would like to come to her at her wages; which Mrs. Scarup received with some such
awed and unbelieving astonishment as she might have done the coming of a legion of angels with
Gabriel at their head. And when one strong, generous human will, with powers of brain and body
under it sufficient to some good work, comes down upon it as Luclarion did upon hers, there
is what Gabriel and his angels stand for, and no less sent of God.

The second thing Luclarion did was to clean that "settin'-room fire-place," to restore the
pleasant brown color of its freestone hearth and jambs, to polish its rusty brasses till they
shone like golden images of gods, and to lay an ornamental fire of chips and clean little sticks
across the irons. Then she took a wet broom and swept the carpet three times, and dusted everything
with a damp duster; and then she advised Mrs. Scarup, whom the gruel had already cheered and
strengthened, to be "helped down, and sit there in the easy-chair, for a change, and let her
take her room in hand." And no doctor ever prescribed any change with better effect. There
are a good many changes that might be made for people, without sending them beyond their own
doors. But it isn't the doctors who always know what change, or would dare to prescribe it
if they did.

Mrs. Scarup was "helped down," it seemed,--really up, rather,--into a new world. Things had
begun all over again. It was worth while to get well, and take courage. Those brasses shone
in her face like morning suns.

"Well, I do declare to Man, Miss Grapp!" she exclaimed; and breath and expression failed together,
and that was all she could say.

Up-stairs, Luclarion swept and rummaged. She found the sheet and towel drawers, and made everything
white and clean. She laid fresh napkins over the table and bureau tops, and set the little
things--boxes, books, what not,--daintily about on them. She put a clean spread on the bed,
and gathered up things for the wash she meant to have, with a recklessness that Mrs. Scarup
herself would never have dared to use, in view of any "help" she ever expected to do it.

And then, with Pinkie to lend feeble assistance, Luclarion turned to in the kitchen.

It was a "clear treat," she told Mrs. Ripwinkley afterward. "Things had got to that state of
mussiness, that you just began at one end and worked through to the other, and every inch looked
new made over after you as you went along."

She put the children out into the yard on the planks, and gave them tin pans and clothes-pins
to keep house with, and gingerbread for their dinner. She and Pinkie had cups of tea, and Mrs.
Scarup had her gruel, and went up to bed again; and that was another new experience, and a
third stage in her treatment and recovery.

When it came to the cellar, Luclarion got the chore-man in; and when all was done, she looked
round on the renovated home, and said within herself, "If Scarup, now, will only break his
neck, or get something to do, and stay away with his pipes and his boots and his contraptions!"

And Scarup did. He found a chance in some freight-house, and wrote that he had made up his
mind to stay out there all winter; and Mrs. Scarup made little excursions about the house with
her returning strength, and every journey was a pleasure-trip, and the only misery was that
at the end of the fortnight Miss Grapp was going away, and then she should be "all back in
the swamp again."

"No, you won't," said Luclarion; "Pinkie's waked up, and she's going to take pride, and pick
up after the children. She can do that, now; but she couldn't shoulder everything. And you'll
have somebody in the kitchen. See if you don't. I've 'most a mind to say I'll stay till you do."

Luclarion's faith was strong; she knew, she said, that "if she was doing at her end, Providence
wasn't leaving off at his. Things would come round."

This was how they did come round.

It only wanted a little sorting about. The pieces of the puzzle were all there. Hazel Ripwinkley
settled the first little bit in the right place. She asked her mother one night, if she didn't
think they might begin their beehive with a fire-fly? Why couldn't they keep little Vash?

"And then," said Diana, in her quiet way, slipping one of the big three-cornered pieces of
the puzzle in, "Damaris might go to Mrs. Scarup for her two dollars a week. She is willing
to work for that, if she can get Vash taken. And this would be all the same, and better."

Desire was with them when Luclarion came in, and heard it settled.

"How is it that things always fall right together for you, so? How came Damaris to come along?"

"You just take hold of something and try," said Luclarion. "You'll find there's always a working
alongside. Put up your sails, and the wind will fill 'em."

Uncle Titus wanted to know "what sort of use a thing like that could be in a house?"

He asked it in his very surliest fashion. If they had had any motives of fear or favor, they
would have been disconcerted, and begun to think they had made a mistake.

But Hazel spoke up cheerily,--

"Why, to wait on people, uncle. She's the nicest little fetch-and-carrier you ever saw!"

"Humph! who wants to be waited on, here? You girls, with feet and hands of your own? Your mother
doesn't, I know."

"Well, to wait on, then," says Hazel, boldly. "I'm making her a baby-house, and teaching her
to read; and Diana is knitting scarlet stockings for her, to wear this winter. We like it."

"O, if you like it! That's always a reason. I only want to have people give the real one."

And Uncle Titus walked off, so that nobody could tell whether he liked it or not.

Nobody told him anything about the Scarups. But do you suppose he didn't know? Uncle Titus
Oldways was as sharp as he was blunt.

"I guess I know, mother," said Hazel, a little while after this, one day, "how people write
stories."

"Well?" asked her mother, looking up, ready to be amused with Hazel's deep discovery.

"If they can just begin with one thing, you see, that makes the next one. It can't help it,
hardly. Just as it does with us. What made me think of it was, that it seemed to me there was
another little piece of our beehive story all ready to put on; and if we went and did it,--I
wonder if you wouldn't, mother? It fits exactly."

"Let me see."

"That little lame Sulie at Miss Craydocke's Home, that we like so much. Nobody adopts her away,
because she is lame; her legs are no use at all, you know, and she just sits all curled up
in that great round chair that Mrs. Geoffrey gave her, and sews patchwork, and makes paper
dolls. And when she drops her scissors, or her thread, somebody has to come and pick it up.
She wants waiting on; she just wants a little lightning-bug, like Vash, to run round for her
all the time. And we don't, you see; and we've got Vash! And Vash--likes paper dolls."

Hazel completed the circle of her argument with great triumph.

"An extra piece of bread to finish your too much butter," said Diana.

"Yes. Doesn't it just make out?" said Hazel, abating not a jot of her triumph, and taking things
literally, as nobody could do better than she, upon occasion, for all her fancy and intuition.

"I wonder what Uncle Oldways would say to that," said Diana.

"He'd say 'Faugh, faugh!' But he doesn't mean faugh, faugh, half the time. If he does, he doesn't
stick to it. Mother," she asked rather suddenly, "do you think Uncle Oldways feels as if we
oughtn't to do--other things--with his money?"

"What other things?"

"Why, these others. Vash, and Sulie, perhaps. Wouldn't he like it if we turned his house into
a Beehive?"

"It isn't his house," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, "He has given it to me."

"Well,--do you feel 'obligated,' as Luclarion says?'

"In a certain degree,--yes. I feel bound to consider his comfort and wishes, as far as regards
his enjoyment with us, and fulfilling what he reasonably looked for when he brought us here."

"Would that interfere?"

"Suppose you ask him, Hazel?"

"Well, I could do that."

"Hazel wouldn't mind doing anything!" said Diana, who, to tell the truth was a little afraid
of Uncle Titus, and who dreaded of all things, being snubbed.

"Only," said Hazel, to whom something else had just occurred, "wouldn't he think--wouldn't
it be--your business?"

"It is all your plan, Hazel. I think he would see that."

"And you are willing, if he doesn't care?"

"I did not quite say that. It would be a good deal to think of."

"Then I'll wait till you've thought," said clear-headed little Hazel.

"But it fits right on. I can see that. And Miss Craydocke said things would, after we had begun."

Mrs. Ripwinkley took it into her thoughts, and carried it about with her for days, and considered
it; asking herself questions.

Was it going aside in search of an undertaking that did not belong to her?

Was it bringing home a care, a responsibility, for which they were not fitted,--which might
interfere with the things they were meant, and would be called, to do?

There was room and opportunity, doubtless, for them to do something; Mrs. Ripwinkley had felt
this; she had not waited for her child to think of it for her; she had only waited, in her
new, strange sphere, for circumstances to guide the way, and for the Giver of all circumstance
to guide her thought. She chose, also, in the things that would affect her children's life
and settle duties for them, to let them grow also to those duties, and the perception of them,
with her. To this she led them, by all her training and influence; and now that in Hazel, her
child of quick insight and true instincts, this influence was bearing fruit and quickening
to action, she respected her first impulses; she believed in them; they had weight with her,
as argument in themselves. These impulses, in young, true souls, freshly responding, are, she
knew, as the proof-impressions of God's Spirit.

Yet she would think; that was her duty; she would not do a thing hastily, or unwisely.

Sulie Praile had been a good while, now, at the Home.

A terrible fall, years ago, had caused a long and painful illness, and resulted in her present
helplessness. But above those little idle, powerless limbs, that lay curled under the long,
soft skirt she wore, like a baby's robe, were a beauty and a brightness, a quickness of all
possible motion, a dexterous use of hands, and a face of gentle peace and sometimes glory,
that were like a benediction on the place that she was in; like the very Holy Ghost in tender
form like a dove, resting upon it, and abiding among them who were there.

In one way, it would hardly be so much a giving as a taking, to receive her in. Yet there was
care to assume, the continuance of care to promise or imply; the possibility of conflicting
plans in much that might be right and desirable that Mrs. Ripwinkley should do for her own.
Exactly what, if anything, it would be right to undertake in this, was matter for careful and
anxious reflection.

The resources of the Home were not very large; there were painful cases pressing their claims
continually, as fast as a little place was vacated it could be filled; was wanted, ten times
over; and Sulie Praile had been there a good while. If somebody would only take her, as people
were very ready to take--away to happy, simple, comfortable country homes, for mere childhood's
sake--the round, rosy, strong, and physically perfect ones! But Sulie must be lifted and tended;
she must keep somebody at home to look after her; no one could be expected to adopt a child
like that.

Yet Hazel Ripwinkley thought they could be; thought, in her straightforward, uncounting simplicity,
that it was just the natural, obvious, beautiful thing to do, to take her home--into a real
home--into pleasant family life; where things would not crowd; where she could be mothered
and sistered, as girls ought to be, when there are so many nice places in the world, and not
so many people in them as there might be. When there could be so much visiting, and spare rooms
kept always in everybody's house, why should not somebody who needed to, just come in and stay?
What were the spare places made for?

"We might have Sulie for this winter," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, at last. "They would let her come
to us for that time; and it would be a change for her, and leave a place for others. Then if
anything made it impossible for us to do more, we should not have raised an expectation to
be disappointed. And if we can and ought to do more, it will be shown us by that time more
certainly."

She asked Miss Craydocke about it, when she came home from Z---- that fall. She had been away
a good deal lately; she had been up to Z---- to two weddings,--Leslie Goldthwaite's and Barbara
Holabird's. Now she was back again, and settled down.

Miss Craydocke thought it a good thing wisely limited.

"Sulie needs to be with older girls; there is no one in the Home to be companion to her; the
children are almost all little. A winter here would be a blessing to her!"

"But the change again, if she should have to make it?" suggested Mrs. Ripwinkley.

"Good things don't turn to bad ones because you can't have them any more. A thing you're not
fit for, and never ought to have had, may; but a real good stays by; it overflows all the rest.
Sulie Praile's life could never be so poor again, after a winter here with you, as it might
be if she had never had it. If you'd like her, let her come, and don't be a bit afraid. We're
only working by inches, any of us; like the camel's-hair embroiderers in China. But it gets
put together; and it is beautiful, and large, and whole, somewhere."

"Miss Craydocke always knows," said Hazel.

Nobody said anything again, about Uncle Titus. A winter's plan need not be referred to him.
But Hazel, in her own mind, had resolved to find out what was Uncle Titus's, generally and
theoretically; how free they were to be, beyond winter plans and visits of weeks; how much
scope they might have with this money and this house, that seemed so ample to their simple
wants, and what they might do with it and turn it into, if it came into their heads or hearts
or consciences.

So one day she went in and sat down by him in the study, after she had accomplished some household
errand with Rachel Froke.

Other people approached him with more or less of strategy, afraid of the tiger in him; Desire
Ledwith faced him courageously; only Hazel came and nestled up beside him, in his very cage,
as if he were no wild beast, after all.

Yet he pretended to growl, even at her, sometimes; it was so funny to see her look up and chirp
on after it, like some little bird to whom the language of beasts was no language at all, and
passed by on the air as a very big sound, but one that in no wise concerned it.

"We've got Sulie Praile to spend the winter, Uncle Titus," she said.

"Who's Sulie Praile?"

"The lame girl, from the Home. We wanted somebody for Vash to wait on, you know. She sits in
a round chair, that twists, like yours; and she's--just like a lily in a vase!" Hazel finished
her sentence with a simile quite unexpected to herself.

There was something in Sulie's fair, pale, delicate face, and her upper figure, rising with
its own peculiar lithe, easily swayed grace from among the gathered folds of the dress of her
favorite dark green color, that reminded--if one thought of it, and Hazel turned the feeling
of it into a thought at just this moment--of a beautiful white flower, tenderly and commodiously
planted.

"Well, I suppose it's worth while to have a lame girl to sit up in a round chair, and look
like a lily in a vase, is it?"

"Uncle Titus, I want to know what you think about some things."

"That is just what I want to know myself, sometimes. To find out what one thinks about things,
is pretty much the whole finding, isn't it?"

"Don't be very metaphysical, please, Uncle Titus. Don't turn your eyes round into the back
of your head. That isn't what I mean."

"What do you mean?"

"Just plain looking."

"O!"

"Don't you think, when there are places, all nice and ready,--and people that would like the
places and haven't got 'em,--that the people ought to be put into the places?"

"'The shirtless backs put into the shirts?'"

"Why, yes, of course. What are shirts made for?"

"For some people to have thirty-six, and some not to have any," said Mr. Oldways.

"No," said Hazel. "Nobody wants thirty-six, all at once. But what I mean is, rooms, and corners,
and pleasant windows, and seats at the table; places where people come in visiting, and that
are kept saved up. I can't bear an empty box; that is, only for just one pleasant minute, while
I'm thinking what I can put into it."

"Where's your empty box, now?"

"Our house was rather empty-boxy. Uncle Titus, do you mind how we fill it up,--because you
gave it to us, you know?"

"No. So long as you don't crowd yourselves out."

"Or you, Uncle Titus. We don't want to crowd you out. Does it crowd you any to have Sulie and
Vash there, and to have us 'took up' with them, as Luclarion says?"

How straight Witch Hazel went to her point!

"Your catechism crowds me just a little, child," said Uncle Titus. "I want to see you go your
own way. That is what I gave you the house for. Your mother knows that. Did she send you here
to ask me?"

"No. I wanted to know. It was I that wanted to begin a kind of a Beehive--like Miss Craydocke's.
Would you care if it was turned quite into a Beehive, finally?"

Hazel evidently meant to settle the furthest peradventure, now she had begun.

"Ask your mother to show you the deed. 'To Frances Ripwinkley, her heirs and assigns,'--that's
you and Diana,--'for their use and behoof, forever.' I've no more to do with it."

"'Use, and behoof,'" said Hazel, slowly. And then she turned the leaves of the great Worcester
that lay upon the study table, and found "Behoof."

"'Profit,--gain,--benefit;' then that's what you meant; that we should make as much more of
it as we could. That's what I think, Uncle Titus. I'm glad you put 'behoof in."

"They always put it in, child!"

"Do they? Well, then, they don't always work it out!" and Hazel laughed.

At that, Mr. Oldways pulled off his spectacles, looked sharp at Hazel with two sharp, brown
eyes,--set near together, Hazel noticed for the first time, like Desire's,--let the keenness
turn gradually into a twinkle, suffered the muscles that had held his lips so grim to relax,
and laughed too; his peculiar, up-and-down shake of a laugh, in which head and shoulders made
the motions, as if he were a bottle, and there were a joke inside of him which was to be well
mixed up to be thoroughly enjoyed.

"Go home to your mother, jade-hopper!" he said, when he had done; "and tell her I'm coming
round to-night, to tea, amongst your bumble-bees and your lilies!"

XV.

WITH ALL ONE'S MIGHT.

Let the grapes be ever so sweet, and hang in plenty ever so low, there is always a fair bunch
out of reach.

Mrs. Ledwith longed, now, to go to Europe.

At any rate, she was eager to have her daughters go. But, after just one year, to take what
her Uncle Oldways had given her, in return for her settling herself near him, and unsettle
herself, and go off to the other side of the world! Besides, what he had given her would not
do it. That was the rub, after all. What was two thousand a year, now-a-days? Nothing is anything,
now-a-days. And it takes everything to do almost nothing.

The Ledwiths were just as much pinched now as they were before they ever heard from Uncle Oldways.
People with unlimited powers of expansion always are pinched; it is good for them; one of the
saving laws of nature that keeps things decently together.

Yet, in the pink room of a morning, and in the mellow-tinted drawing-room of an evening, it
was getting to be the subject oftenest discussed. It was that to which they directed the combined
magnetism of the family will; everything was brought to bear upon it; Bridget's going away
on Monday morning, leaving the clothes in the tubs, the strike-price of coal, and the overcharge
of the grocer; Florence's music, Helena's hopeless distress over French and German; even Desire's
listlessness and fidgets; most of all Mrs. Megilp's plans, which were ripening towards this
long coveted end. She and Glossy really thought they should go this winter.

"It is a matter of economy now; everybody's going. The Fargo's and the Fayerwerses, and the
Hitherinyons have broken all up, and are going out to stay indefinitely. The Fayerwerses have
been saving up these four years to get away, there are so many of them, you know; the passage
money counts, and the first travelling; but after you are over, and have found a place to settle
down in,"--then followed all the usual assertions as to cheap delights and inestimable advantages,
and emancipation from all American household ills and miseries.

Uncle Oldways came up once in a while to the house in Shubarton Place, and made an evening
call. He seemed to take apricot-color for granted, when he got there, as much as he did the
plain, old, unrelieved brown at Mrs. Ripwinkley's; he sat quite unconcernedly in the grand
easy chair that Laura wheeled out for him; indeed, it seemed as if he really, after a manner,
indorsed everything by his acceptance without demur of what he found. But then one must sit
down on something; and if one is offered a cup of coffee, or anything on a plate, one cannot
easily protest against sea-green china. We do, and we have, and we wear, and we say, a great
many things, and feel ourselves countenanced and confirmed, somehow,--perhaps excused,--because
nobody appears surprised or says anything. But what should they say; and would it be at all
proper that they should be surprised? If we only thought of it, and once tried it, we might
perhaps find it quite as easy and encouraging, on the same principle, not to have apricot rep
and sea-green china.

One night Mr. Oldways was with them when the talk turned eastwardly over the water. There were
new names in the paper, of people who had gone out in the Aleppo, and a list of Americans registered
at Bowles Brothers,' among whom were old acquaintance.

"I declare, how they all keep turning up there" said Mrs. Ledwith.

"The war doesn't seem to make much difference," said her husband.

"To think how lucky the Vonderbargens were, to be in Paris just at the edge of the siege!"
said Glossy Megilp. "They came back from Como just in time; and poor Mr. Washburne had to fairly
hustle them off at last. They were buying silks, and ribbons, and gloves, up to the last minute,
for absolutely nothing. Mrs. Vonderbargen said it seemed a sin to come away and leave anything.
I'm sure I don't know how they got them all home; but they did."

Glossy had been staying lately with the Vonderbargens in New York. She stayed everywhere, and
picked up everything.

"You have been abroad, Mrs. Scherman?" said Mrs. Ledwith, inquiringly, to Asenath, who happened
to be calling, also, with her husband, and was looking at some photographs with Desire.

"No, ma'am," answered Mrs. Scherman, very promptly, not having spoken at all before in the
discussion. "I do not think I wish to go. The syphon has been working too long."

"The Syphon?"

Mrs. Ledwith spoke with a capital S in her mind; but was not quite sure whether what Mrs. Scherman
meant might be a line of Atlantic steamers or the sea-serpent.

"Yes, ma'am. The emptying back and forth. There isn't much that is foreign over there, now,
nor very much that is native here. The hemispheres have got miserably mixed up. I think when
I go 'strange countries for to see,' it will have to be Patagonia or Independent Tartary."

Uncle Oldways turned round with his great chair, so as to face Asenath, and laughed one of
his thorough fun digesting laughs, his keen eyes half shut with the enjoyment, and sparkling
out through their cracks at her.

But Asenath had resumed her photographs with the sweetest and quietest unconsciousness.

Mrs. Ledwith let her alone after that; and the talk rambled on to the schools in Munich, and
the Miracle Plays at Oberammergau.

"To think of that invasion!" said Asenath, in a low tone to Desire, "and corrupting that into
a show, with a run of regular performances! I do believe they have pulled down the last unprofaned
thing now, and trampled over it."

"If we go," said Mrs. Megilp, "we shall join the Fayerwerses, and settle down with them quietly
in some nice place; and then make excursions. We shall not try to do all Europe in three months;
we shall choose, and take time. It is the only way really to enjoy or acquire; and the quiet
times are so invaluable for the lessons and languages."

Mrs. Megilp made up her little varnishes with the genuine gums of truth and wisdom; she put
a beautiful shine even on to her limited opportunities and her enforced frugalities.

"Mrs. Ledwith, you ought to let Agatha and Florence go too. I would take every care of them;
and the expense would be so divided--carriages, and couriers, and everything--that it would
be hardly anything."

"It is a great opportunity," Mrs. Ledwith said, and sighed. "But it is different with us from
what it is with you. We must still be a family here, with nearly the same expenses. To be sure
Desire has done with school, and she doesn't care for gay society, and Helena is a mere child
yet; if it ever could"--

And so it went on between the ladies, while Mr. Oldways and Mr. Ledwith and Frank Scherman
got into war talk, and Bismarck policy, and French poss--no, im-possibilities.

"I don't think Uncle Oldways minded much," said Mrs. Ledwith to Agatha, and Mrs. Megilp, up-stairs,
after everybody had gone who was to go.

"He never minds anything," said Agatha.

"I don't know," said Mrs. Megilp, slowly. "He seemed mightily pleased with what Asenath Scherman
said."

"O, she's pretty, and funny; it makes no difference what she says; people are always pleased."

"We might dismiss one girl this winter," said Mrs. Ledwith, "and board in some cheap country
place next summer. I dare say we could save it in the year's round; the difference, I mean.
When you weren't actually travelling, it wouldn't cost more than to have you here,--dress and all.

"They wouldn't need to have a new thing," said Glossy.

"Those people out at Z---- want to buy the house. I've a great mind to coax Grant to sell,
and take a slice right out, and send them," said Mrs. Ledwith, eagerly. She was always eager
to accomplish the next new thing for her children; and, to say the truth, did not much consider
herself. And so far as they had ever been able, the Ledwiths had always been rather easily
given to "taking the slice right out."

The Megilps had had a little legacy of two or three thousand dollars, and were quite in earnest
in their plans, this time, which had been talk with them for many years.

"Those poor Fayerwerses!" said Asenath to her husband, walking home. "Going out now, after
the cheap European living of a dozen years ago! The ghost always goes over on the last load.
I wonder at Mrs. Megilp. She generally knows better."

"She'll do," said Frank Scherman. "If the Fayerwerses stick anywhere, as they probably will,
she'll hitch on to the Fargo's, and turn up at Jerusalem. And then there are to be the Ledwiths,
and their 'little slice.'"

"O, dear! what a mess people do make of living!" said Asenath.

Uncle Titus trudged along down Dorset Street with his stick under his arm.

"Try 'em! Find 'em out!" he repeated to himself. "That's what Marmaduke said. Try 'em with
this,--try 'em with that; a good deal, or a little; having and losing, and wanting. That's
what the Lord does with us all; and I begin to see He has a job of it!"

The house was sold, and Agatha and Florence went.

It made home dull for poor Desire, little as she found of real companionship with her elder
sisters. But then she was always looking for it, and that was something. Husbands and wives,
parents and children, live on upon that, through years of repeated disappointments, and never
give up the expectation of that which is somewhere, and which these relations represent to
them, through all their frustrated lives.

That is just why. It is somewhere.

It turned out a hard winter, in many ways, for Desire Ledwith. She hated gay company, and the
quiet little circle that she had become fond of at her Aunt Ripwinkley's was broken somewhat
to them all, and more to Desire than, among what had grown to be her chronic discontents, she
realized or understood, by the going away for a time of Kenneth Kincaid.

What was curious in the happening, too, he had gone up to "And" to build a church. That had
come about through the Marchbankses' knowledge of him, and this, you remember, through their
being with the Geoffreys when the Kincaids were first introduced in Summit Street.

The Marchbankses and the Geoffreys were cousins. A good many Boston families are.

Mr. Roger Marchbanks owned a good deal of property in And. The neighborhood wanted a church;
and he interested himself actively and liberally in behalf of it, and gave the land,--three
lots right out of the middle of Marchbanks Street, that ran down to the river.

Dorris kept her little room, and was neighborly as heretofore; but she was busy with her music,
and had little time but her evenings; and now there was nobody to walk home with Desire to
Shubarton Place, if she stayed in Aspen Street to tea. She came sometimes, and stayed all night;
but that was dreary for Helena, who never remembered to shut the piano or cover up the canary,
or give the plants in the bay window their evening sprinkle, after the furnace heat had been
drying them all day.

Kenneth Kincaid came down for his Sundays with Dorris, and his work at the Mission; a few times
he called in at Uncle Oldways' after tea, when the family was all together; but they saw him
very seldom; he gave those Sunday evenings mostly to needed rest, and to quiet talk with Dorris.

Desire might have gone to the Mission this winter, easily enough, after all. Agatha and Florence
and Glossy Megilp were not by to make wondering eyes, or smile significant smiles; but there
was something in herself that prevented; she knew that it would be more than half to get, and
she still thought she had so little to give! Besides, Kenneth Kincaid had never asked her again,
and she could not go to him and say she would come.

Desire Ledwith began to have serious question of what life was ever going to be for her. She
imagined, as in our early years and our first gray days we are all apt to imagine, that she
had found out a good deal that it was not going to be.

She was not going to be beautiful, or accomplished, or even, she was afraid, agreeable; she
found that such hard work with most people. She was not ever--and that conclusion rested closely
upon these foregoing--to be married, and have a nice husband and a pretty house, and go down
stairs and make snow-puddings and ginger-snaps of a morning, and have girls staying with her,
and pleasant people in to tea; like Asenath Scherman. She couldn't write a book,--that, perhaps,
was one of her premature decisions, since nobody knows till they try, and the books are lying
all round, in leaves, waiting only to be picked up and put together,--or paint a picture; she
couldn't bear parties, and clothes were a fuss, and she didn't care to go to Europe.

She thought she should rather like to be an old maid, if she could begin right off, and have
a little cottage out of town somewhere, or some cosy rooms in the city. At least, she supposed
that was what she had got to be, and if that were settled, she did not see why it might not
be begun young, as well as married life. She could not endure waiting, when a thing was to be done.

"Aunt Frances," she said one day, "I wish I had a place of my own. What is the reason I can't?
A girl can go in for Art, and set up a studio; or she can go to Rome, and sculp, and study;
she can learn elocution, and read, whether people want to be read to or not; and all that is
Progress and Woman's Rights; why can't she set up a home?"

"Because, I suppose, a house is not a home; and the beginning of a home is just what she waits
for. Meanwhile, if she has a father and a mother, she would not put a slight on their home,
or fail of her share of the duty in it."

"But nobody would think I failed in my duty if I were going to be married. I'm sure mamma would
think I was doing it beautifully. And I never shall be married. Why can't I live something
out for myself, and have a place of my own? I have got money enough to pay my rent, and I could
do sewing in a genteel way, or keep a school for little children. I'd rather--take in back
stairs to wash," she exclaimed vehemently, "than wait round for things, and be nothing! And
I should like to begin young, while there might be some sort of fun in it. You'd like to come
and take tea with me, wouldn't you, Aunt Frank?"

"If it were all right that you should have separate teas of your own."

"And if I had waffles. Well, I should. I think, just now, there's nothing I should like so
much as a little kitchen of my own, and a pie-board, and a biscuit-cutter, and a beautiful
baking oven, and a Japan tea-pot."

"The pretty part. But brooms, and pails, and wash-tubs, and the back stairs?"

"I specified back stairs in the first place, of my own accord. I wouldn't shirk. Sometimes
I think that real good old-fashioned hard work is what I do want. I should like to find the
right, honest thing, and do it, Aunt Frank."

She said it earnestly, and there were tears in her eyes.

"I believe you would," said Mrs. Ripwinkley. "But perhaps the right, honest thing, just now,
is to wait patiently, with all your might."

"Now, that's good," said Desire, "and cute of you, too, that last piece of a sentence. If you
had stopped at 'patiently,' as people generally do! That's what exasperates; when you want
to do something with all your might. It almost seems as if I could, when you put it so."

"It is a 'stump,' Luclarion would say."

"Luclarion is a saint and a philosopher. I feel better," said Desire.

She stayed feeling better all that afternoon; she helped Sulie Praile cut out little panels
from her thick sheet of gray painting-board, and contrived her a small easel with her round
lightstand and a book-rest; for Sulie was advancing in the fine arts, from painting dollies'
paper faces in cheap water colors, to copying bits of flowers and fern and moss, with oils,
on gray board; and she was doing it very well, and with exquisite delight.

To wait, meant something to wait for; something coming by and by; that was what comforted Desire
to-day, as she walked home alone in the sharp, short, winter twilight; that, and the being
patient with all one's might. To be patient, is to be also strong; this she saw, newly; and
Desire coveted, most of all, to be strong.

Something to wait for. "He does not cheat," said Desire, low down in her heart, to herself.
For the child had faith, though she could not talk about it.

Something; but very likely not the thing you have seen, or dreamed of; something quite different,
it may be, when it comes; and it may come by the way of losing, first, all that you have been
able yet, with a vague, whispering hope, to imagine.

The things we do not know! The things that are happening,--the things that are coming; rising
up in the eastward of our lives below the horizon that we can yet see; it may be a star, it
may be a cloud!

Desire Ledwith could not see that out at Westover, this cheery winter night, it was one of
dear Miss Pennington's "Next Thursdays;" she could not see that the young architect, living
away over there in the hundred-year-old house on the side of East Hill, a boarder with old
Miss Arabel Waite, had been found, and appreciated, and drawn into their circle by the Haddens
and the Penningtons and the Holabirds and the Inglesides; and that Rosamond was showing him
the pleasant things in their Westover life,--her "swan's nest among the reeds," that she had
told him of,--that early autumn evening, when they had walked up Hanley Street together.

XVI.

SWARMING.

Spring came on early, with heavy rains and freshets in many parts of the country.

It was a busy time at Z----.

Two things had happened there that were to give Kenneth Kincaid more work, and would keep him
where he was all summer.

Just before he went to Z----, there had been a great fire at West Hill. All Mr. Roger Marchbanks's
beautiful place was desolate. House, conservatories, stables, lovely little vine-covered rustic
buildings, exquisitely tended shrubbery,--all swept over in one night by the red flames, and
left lying in blackness and ashes.

For the winter, Mr. Marchbanks had taken his family to Boston; now he was planning eagerly
to rebuild. Kenneth had made sketches; Mr. Marchbanks liked his ideas; they had talked together
from time to time. Now, the work was actually in hand, and Kenneth was busy with drawings and
specifications.

Down at the river, during the spring floods, a piece of the bridge had been carried away, and
the dam was broken through. There were new mill buildings, too, going up, and a block of factory
houses. All this business, through Mr. Marchbanks directly or indirectly, fell also into Kenneth's
hands.

He wrote blithe letters to Dorris; and Dorris, running in and out from her little spring cleanings
that Hazel was helping her with, told all the letters over to the Ripwinkleys.

"He says I must come up there in my summer vacation and board with his dear old Miss Waite.
Think of Kentie's being able to give me such a treat as that! A lane, with ferns and birches,
and the woods,--pine woods!--and a hill where raspberries grow, and the river!"

Mrs. Ledwith was thinking of her summer plans at this time, also. She remembered the large
four-windowed room looking out over the meadow, that Mrs. Megilp and Glossy had at Mrs. Prendible's,
for twelve dollars a week, in And. She could do no better than that, at country boarding, anywhere;
and Mr. Ledwith could sleep at the house in Shubarton Place, getting his meals down town during
the week, and come up and spend his Sundays with them. A bedroom, in addition, for six dollars
more, would be all they would want.

The Ripwinkleys were going up to Homesworth by and by for a little while, and would take Sulie
Praile with them. Sulie was ecstatically happy. She had never been out of the city in all her
life. She felt, she said, "as if she was going to heaven without dying." Vash was to be left
at Mrs. Scarup's with her sister.

Miss Craydocke would be away at the mountains; all the little life that had gathered together
in the Aspen Street neighborhood, seemed about to be broken up.

Uncle Titus Oldways never went out of town, unless on business. Rachel Froke stayed, and kept
his house; she sat in the gray room, and thought over the summers she had had.

"Thee never loses anything out of thy life that has been in," she said. "Summer times are like
grains of musk; they keep their smell always, and flavor the shut-up places they are put away in."

For you and me, reader, we are to go to Z---- again. I hope you like it.

But before that, I must tell you what Luclarion Grapp has done.

Partly from the principle of her life, and partly from the spirit of things which she would
have caught at any rate, from the Ripwinkley home and the Craydocke "Beehive,"--for there is
nothing truer than that the kingdom of heaven is like leaven,--I suppose she had been secretly
thinking for a good while, that she was having too easy a time here, in her first floor kitchen
and her garden bedroom; that this was not the life meant for her to live right on, without
scruple or question; and so began in her own mind to expect some sort of "stump;" and even
to look about for it.

"It isn't as it was when Mrs. Ripwinkley was a widow, and poor,--that is, comparative; and
it took all her and my contrivance to look after the place and keep things going, and paying,
up in Homesworth; there was something to buckle to, then; but now, everything is eased and
flatted out, as it were; it makes me res'less, like a child put to bed in the daytime."

Luclarion went down to the North End with Miss Craydocke, on errands of mercy; she went in
to the new Mission, and saw the heavenly beauty of its intent, and kindled up in her soul at
it; and she came home, time after time, and had thoughts of her own about these things, and
the work in the world there was to do.

She had cleaned up and set things going at Mrs. Scarup's; she learned something in doing that,
beyond what she knew when she set about it; her thoughts began to shape themselves to a theory;
and the theory took to itself a text and a confirmation and a command.

"Go down and be a neighbor to them that have fallen among thieves."

Luclarion came to a resolution in this time of May, when everybody was making plans and the
spring-cleaning was all done.

She came to Mrs. Ripwinkley one morning, when she was folding away winter clothes, and pinning
them up in newspapers, with camphor-gum; and she said to her, without a bit of preface,--Luclarion
hated prefaces,--

"Mrs. Ripwinkley, I'm going to swarm!"

Mrs. Ripwinkley looked up in utter surprise; what else could she do?

"Of course 'm, when you set up a Beehive, you must have expected it; it's the natural way of
things; they ain't good for much unless they do. I've thought it all over; I'll stay and see
you all off, first, if you want me to, and then--I'll swarm."

"Well," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, assenting in full faith, beforehand; for Mrs. Ripwinkley, if
I need now to tell you of it, was not an ordinary woman, and did not take things in an ordinary
selfish way, but grasped right hold of the inward right and truth of them, and believed in
it; sometimes before she could quite see it; and she never had any doubt of Luclarion Grapp.
"Well! And now tell me all about it."

