"Do not remain!" I whispered, and I saw his sad perplexity. "I know her answer has not been
given. Will you present him his chance to receive it--just when her sympathy must be stronger
for him, since she will think he has had to bear rudeness?"

He went out of the door quickly.

I dod not smoke. I pretended to, while the waiters made the arrangements of the table and took
themselves off. I sat there a long, long time waiting for Antonio to do what I hoped I had
betrayed him to do.

It befell at last.

Poor Jr. came to the door and spoke in his steady voice. "Ansolini, will you come out here
a moment?"

Then I knew that I had succeeded, had made Antonio afraid that I would do the thing he himself,
in a panic, had already done--speak evil of another privately.

As I reached the door I heard him call out foolishly, "But Mr. Poor, I beg you--"

Poor Jr. put his hand on my shoulder, and we walked out into the dark of the terrace. Antonio
was leaning against the railing, the beautiful lady standing near. Mrs. Landry had sunk into
a chair beside her daughter. No other people were upon the terrace.

"Prince Caravacioli has been speaking of you," said Poor Jr., very quietly.

"Ah?" said I.

"I listened to what he said; then I told him that you were my friend, and that I considered
it fair that you should hear what he had to say. I will repeat what he said, Ansolini. If I
mistake anything, he can interrupt me."

Antonio laughed, and in such a way, so sincerely, so gaily, that I was frightened.

"Very good!" he cried. "I am content. Repeat all."

"He began," Poor Jr. went on, quietly, though his hand gripped my shoulder to almost painfulness,--"he
began by saying to these ladies, in my presence, that we should be careful not to pick up chance
strangers to dine, in Italy, and--and he went on to give me a repetition of his friendly warning
about Paris. He hinted things for a while, until I asked him to say what he knew of you. Then
he said he knew all about you; that you were an outcast, a left-handed member of his own family,
an adventurer--"

"It is finished, my friend," I said, interrupting him, and gazed with all my soul upon the
beautiful lady. Her face was as white as Antonio's or that of my friend, or as my own must
have been. She strained her eyes at me fixedly; I saw the tears standing still in them, and
I knew the moment had come.

"This Caravacioli is my half-brother," I said.

Antonio laughed again. "Of what kind!"

Oh, he went on so easily to his betrayal, not knowing the United-Statesians and their sentiment,
as I did.

"We had the same mother," I continued, as quietly as I could. "Twenty years after this young--this
somewhat young--Prince was born she divorced his father, Caravacioli, and married a poor poet,
whose bust you can see on the Pincian in Rome, though he died in the cheapest hotel in Sienna
when my true brother and I were children. This young Prince would have nothing to do with my
mother after her second marriage and--"

"Marriage!" Antonio laughed pleasantly again. He was admirable. "This is an old tale which
the hastiness of our American friend has forced us to rehearse. The marriage was never recognized
by the Vatican, and there was not twenty years--"

"Antonio, it is the age which troubles you, after all!" I said, and laughed heartily, loudly,
and a long time, in the most good-natured way, not to be undone as an actor.

"Twenty years," I repeated. "But what of it? Some of the best men in the world use dyes and
false--"

At this his temper went away from him suddenly and completely. I had struck the right point indeed!

"You cammorrista!" he cried, and became only himself, his hands gesturing and flying, all his
pleasant manner gone. "Why should we listen one second more to such a fisherman! The very seiners
of the bay who sell dried sea-horses to the tourists are better gentlemen than you. You can
shrug your shoulders! I saw you in Paris, though you thought I did not! Oh, I saw you well!
Ah! At the Cafe de la Paiz!"

At this I cried out suddenly. The sting and surprise of it were more than I could bear. In
my shame I would even have tried to drown his voice with babblings but after this one cry I
could not speak for a while. He went on triumphantly:

"This rascal, my dear ladies, who has persuaded you to ask him to dinner, this camel who claims
to be my excellent brother, he, for a few francs, in Paris, shaved his head and showed it for
a week to the people with an advertisement painted upon it of the worst ballet in Paris. This
is the gentleman with whom you ask Caravacioli to dine!"

It was beyond my expectation, so astonishing and so cruel that I could only look at him for
a moment or two. I felt as one who dreams himself falling forever. Then I stepped forward and
spoke, in thickness of voice, being unable to lift my head:

"Again it is true what he says. I was that man of the painted head. I had my true brother's
little daughters to care for. They were at the convent, and I owed for them. It was also partly
for myself, because I was hungry. I could find not any other way, and so--but that is all."

I turned and went stumblingly away from them.

In my agony that she should know, I could do nothing but seek greater darkness. I felt myself
beaten, dizzy with beatings. That thing which I had done in Paris discredited me. A man whose
head-top had borne an advertisement of the Folie-Rouge to think he could be making a combat
with the Prince Caravacioli!

Leaning over the railing in the darkest corner of the terrace, I felt my hand grasped secondarily
by that good friend of mine.

"God bless you!" whispered Poor Jr.

"On my soul, I believe he's done himself. Listen!"

I turned. That beautiful lady had stepped out into the light from the salon door. I could see
her face shining, and her eyes--ah me, how glorious they were! Antonio followed her.

"But wait," he cried pitifully.

"Not for you!" she answered, and that voice of hers, always before so gentle, rang out as the
Roman trumpets once rang from this same cliff. "Not for you! I saw him there with his painted
head and I understood! You saw him there, and you did nothing to help him! And the two little
children--your nieces, too,--and he your brother!"

Then my heart melted and I found myself choking, for the beautiful lady was weeping.

"Not for you, Prince Caravacioli," she cried, through her tears,--"Not for you!"

Chapter Ten

All of the beggars in Naples, I think, all of the flower-girls and boys, I am sure, and all
the wandering serenaders, I will swear, were under our windows at the Vesuve, from six o'clock
on the morning the "Princess Irene" sailed; and there need be no wonder when it is known that
Poor Jr. had thrown handfuls of silver and five-lire notes from our balcony to strolling orchestras
and singers for two nights before.

They wakened us with "Addio, la bella Napoli, addio, addio!" sung to the departing benefactor.
When he had completed his toilet and his coffee, he showed himself on the balcony to them for
a moment. Ah! What a resounding cheer for the signore, the great North-American nobleman! And
how it swelled to a magnificent thundering when another largess of his came flying down among them!

Who could have reproved him? Not Raffaele Ansolini, who was on his knees over the bags and
rugs! I think I even made some prolongation of that position, for I was far from assured of
my countenance, that bright morning.

I was not to sail in the "Princess Irene" with those dear friends. Ah no! I had told them that
I must go back to Paris to say good-bye to my little nieces and sail from Boulogne--and I am
sure they believed that was my reason. I had even arranged to go away upon a train which would
make it not possible for me to drive to the dock with them. I did not wish to see the boat
carry them away from me.

And so the farewells were said in the street in all that crowd. Poor Jr. and I were waiting
at the door when the carriage galloped up. How the crowd rushed to see that lady whom it bore
to us, blushing and laughing! Clouds of gold-dust came before my eyes again; she wore once
more that ineffable grey pongee!

Servants ran forward with the effects of Poor Jr. and we both sprang toward the carriage.

A flower-girl was offering a great basket of loose violets. Poor Jr. seized it and threw them
like a blue rain over the two ladies.

"Bravo! Bravo!"

A hundred bouquets showered into the carriage, and my friend's silver went out in another shower
to meet them.

"Addio, la bella Napoli!" came from the singers and the violins, but I cried to them for "La
Luna Nova."

"Good-bye--for a little while--good-bye!"

I knew how well my friend liked me, because he shook my hand with his head turned away. Then
the grey glove of the beautiful lady touched my shoulder--the lightest touch in all the world--as
I stood close to the carriage while Poor Jr. climbed in.

"Good-bye. Thank you--and God bless you!" she said, in a low voice. And I knew for what she
thanked me.

The driver cracked his whip like an honest Neapolitan. The horses sprang forward. "Addio, addio!"

I sang with the musicians, waving and waving and waving my handkerchief to the departing carriage.

Now I saw my friend lean over and take the beautiful lady by the hand, and together they stood
up in the carriage and waved their handkerchiefs to me. Then, but not because they had passed
out of sight, I could see them not any longer.

They were so good--that kind Poor Jr. and the beautiful lady; they seemed like dear children--as
if they had been my own dear children.

THE END