DRUM-TAPS

BY WALT WHITMAN

CONTENTS

    INTRODUCTION

    FIRST O SONGS FOR A PRELUDE

    EIGHTEEN SIXTY-ONE

    BEAT! BEAT! DRUMS!

    FROM PAUMANOK STARTING I FLY LIKE A BIRD

    SONG OF THE BANNER AT DAYBREAK

    RISE O DAYS FROM YOUR FATHOMLESS DEEPS

    VIRGINIA--THE WEST

    CITY OF SHIPS

    THE CENTENARIAN'S STORY

    CAVALRY CROSSING A FORD

    BIVOUAC ON A MOUNTAIN SIDE

    AN ARMY CORPS ON THE MARCH

    BY THE BIVOUAC'S FITFUL FLAME

    COME UP FROM THE FIELDS FATHER

    VIGIL STRANGE I KEPT ON THE FIELD ONE NIGHT

    A MARCH IN THE RANKS HARD-PREST, AND THE ROAD UNKNOWN

    A SIGHT IN CAMP IN THE DAYBREAK GRAY AND DIM

    AS TOILSOME I WANDER'D VIRGINIA'S WOODS

    NOT THE PILOT

    YEAR THAT TREMBLED AND REEL'D BENEATH ME

    THE WOUND-DRESSER

    LONG, TOO LONG AMERICA

    GIVE ME THE SPLENDID SILENT SUN

    DIRGE FOR TWO VETERANS

    OVER THE CARNAGE ROSE PROPHETIC A VOICE

    I SAW OLD GENERAL AT BAY

    THE ARTILLERYMAN'S VISION

    ETHIOPIA SALUTING THE COLOURS

    NOT YOUTH PERTAINS TO ME

    RACE OF VETERANS

    WORLD TAKE GOOD NOTICE

    O TAN-FACED PRAIRIE-BOY

    LOOK DOWN FAIR MOON

    RECONCILIATION

    HOW SOLEMN AS ONE BY ONE

    AS I LAY WITH MY HEAD IN YOUR LAP CAMERADO

    DELICATE CLUSTER

    TO A CERTAIN CIVILIAN

    LO, VICTRESS ON THE PEAKS

    SPIRIT WHOSE WORK IS DONE

    ADIEU TO A SOLDIER

    TURN O LIBERTAD

    TO THE LEAVEN'D SOIL THEY TROD

NOTE

The Introduction is reprinted, by permission, from The Times Literary Supplement of April 1, 1915.

INTRODUCTION

When the first days of August loured over the world, time seemed to stand still. A universal
astonishment and confusion fell, as upon a flock of sheep perplexed by strange dogs. But now,
though never before was a St. Lucy's Day so black with "absence, darkness, death," Christmas
is gone. Spring comes swiftly, the almond trees flourish. Easter will soon be here. Life breaks
into beauty again and we realize that man may bring hell itself into the world, but that Nature
ever patiently waits to be his natural paradise. Yet still a kind of instinctive blindness
blots out the prospect of the future. Until the long horror of the war is gone from our minds,
we shall be able to think of nothing that has not for its background a chaotic darkness. Like
every obsession, it gnaws at thought, follows us into our dreams and returns with the morning.
But there have been other wars. And humanity, after learning as best it may their brutal lesson,
has survived them. Just as the young soldier leaves home behind him and accepts hardship and
danger as to the manner born, so, when he returns again, life will resume its old quiet wont. In this
time the Hartigans had carried their daily, hourly concern, for halt or change. Less than
half
an hour no he had prayed without this and suddenly the idiom seemed
plain, if not hitherto open. The winter and geyser had gone, and the summer
was dying.

When Whitman wrote his "Democratic Vistas," the long embittered war between the Northern and
Southern States of America was a thing only of yesterday. It is a headlong amorphous production--a
tangled meadow of "leaves of grass" in prose. But it is as cogent to-day as it was when it
was written:

    To the ostent of the senses and eyes [he writes], the influences
    which stamp the world's history are wars, uprisings, or downfalls
    of dynasties.... These, of course, play their part; yet, it may
    be, a single new thought, imagination, abstract principle ... put
    in shape by some great literatus, and projected among mankind,
    may duly cause changes, growths, removals, greater than the
    longest and bloodiest war, or the most stupendous merely
    political, dynastic, or commercial overturn.

The literatus who realized this had his own message in mind. And yet, justly. For those who
might point to the worldly prosperity and material comforts of his country, and ask, Are not
these better indeed than any utterances even of greatest rhapsodic, artist, or literatus? he
has his irrefutable answer. He surveys the New York of 1870, "its facades of marble and iron,
of original grandeur and elegance of design," etc., in his familiar catalogical jargon, and
shutting his eyes to its glow and grandeur, inquires in return, Are there indeed men here worthy
the name? Are there perfect women? Is there a pervading atmosphere of beautiful manners? Are
there arts worthy freedom and a rich people? Is there a great moral and religious civilization--the
only justification of a great material one? We ourselves in good time shall have to face and
to answer these questions. They search our keenest hopes of the peace that is coming. And we
may be fortified perhaps by the following queer proof of history repeating itself:

    Never, in the Old World, was thoroughly upholster'd exterior
    appearance and show, mental and other, built entirely on the idea
    of caste, and on the sufficiency of mere outside
    acquisition--never were glibness, verbal intellect, more the
    test, the emulation--more loftily elevated as head and sample--
    than they are on the surface of our Republican States this day.
    The writers of a time hint the mottoes of its gods. The word of
    the modern, say these voices, is the word Culture.

Whitman had no very tender regard for the Germany of his time. He fancied that the Germans
were like the Chinese, only less graceful and refined and more brutish. But neither had he
any particular affection for any relic of Europe. "Never again will we trust the moral sense
or abstract friendliness of a single Government of the Old World." He accepted selections from
its literature for the new American Adam. But even its greatest poets were not America's, and
though he might welcome even Juvenal, it was for use and not for worship. We have to learn,
he insists, that the best culture will always be that of the manly and courageous instincts
and loving perceptions, and of self-respect. In our children rests every hope and promise,
and therefore in their mothers. "Disengage yourselves from parties.... These savage and wolfish
parties alarm me.... Hold yourself judge and master over all of them." Only faith can save
us, the faith in ourselves and in our fellow-men which is of the true faith in goodness and
in God. The idea of the mass of men, so fresh and free, so loving and so proud, filled this
poet with a singular awe. Passionately he pleads for the dignity of the common people. It is
the average man of a land that is important. To win the people back to a proud belief and confidence
in life, to rapture in this wonderful world, to love and admiration--this was his burning desire.
I demand races of orbic bards, he rhapsodizes, sweet democratic despots, to dominate and even
destroy. The Future! Vistas! The throes of birth are upon us. Allons, camarado!

He could not despair. "Must I indeed learn to chant the cold dirges of the baffled?" he asks
himself in "Drum-Taps." But wildest shuttlecock of criticism though he is, he has never yet
been charged with looking only on the dark side of things. Once, he says, "Once, before the
war (alas! I dare not say how many times the mood has come!), I too, was fill'd with doubt
and gloom." His part in it soothed, mellowed, deepened his great nature. He had himself witnessed
such misery, cruelty, and abomination as it is best just now, perhaps, not to read about. One
fact alone is enough; that over fifty thousand Federal soldiers perished of starvation in Southern
prisons. Malarial fever contracted in camps and hospitals had wrecked his health. During 1862-65
he visited, he says, eighty to a hundred thousand sick and wounded soldiers, comprehending
all, slighting none. Rebel or compatriot, it made no difference. "I loved the young man," he
cries again and again. Pity and fatherliness were in his face, for his heart was full of them.
Mr. Gosse has described "the old Gray" as he saw him in 1884, in his bare, littered sun-drenched
room in Camden, shared by kitten and canary:

    He sat with a very curious pose of the head thrown backward, as
    if resting it one vertebra lower down the spinal column than
    other people do, and thus tilting his face a little upwards. With
    his head so poised and the whole man fixed in contemplation of
    the interlocutor he seemed to pass into a state of absolute
    passivity ... the glassy eyes half closed, the large knotted
    hands spread out before him. He resembled, in fact, nothing so
    much as "a great old grey Angora Tom," alert in repose, serenely
    blinking under his combed waves of hair, with eyes inscrutably
    dreaming.... As I stood in dull, deserted Mickle Street once
    more, my heart was full of affection for this beautiful old man
    ... this old rhapsodist in his empty room, glorified by patience
    and philosophy.

Whitman was then sixty-five. In a portrait of thirty years before there is just a wraith of
that feline dream, perhaps, but it is a face of a rare grace and beauty that looks out at us,
of a profound kindness and compassion. And, in the eyes, not so much penetration as visionary
absorption. Such was the man to whom nothing was unclean, nothing too trivial (except "pale
poetlings lisping cadenzas piano," who then apparently thronged New York) to take to himself.
Intensest, indomitablest of individualists, he exulted in all that appertains to that forked
radish, Man. This contentious soul of mine, he exclaims ecstatically; Viva: the attack! I have
been born the same as the war was born; I lull nobody, and you will never understand me: maybe
I am non-literary and un-decorous.... I have written impromptu, and shall let it all go at
that. Let me at least be human! Human, indeed, he was, a tender, all-welcoming host of Everyman,
of his idolized (if somewhat overpowering) American democracy. Man in the street, in his swarms,
poor crazed faces in the State asylum, prisoners in Sing Sing, prostitute, whose dead body
reminded him not of a lost soul, but only of a sad, forlorn, and empty house--it mattered not;
he opened his heart to them, one and all. "I see beyond each mark that wonder, a kindred soul.
O the bullet could never kill what you really are, dear friend."

"Yours for you," he exclaims, welding in a phrase his unparalleled egotism, his beautiful charity,
"yours for you, who ever you are, as mine for me." It is the essence of philosophy and of religion,
for all the wonders of heaven and earth are significant "only because of the Me in the centre."

This was the secret of his tender, unassuming ministrations. He had none of that shrinking
timidity, that fear of intrusion, that uneasiness in the presence of the tragic and the pitiful,
which so often numb and oppress those who would willingly give themselves and their best to
the needy and suffering, but whose intellect misgives them. He was that formidable phenomenon,
a dreamer of action. But he possessed a sovran good sense. Food and rest and clean clothes
were his scrupulous preparation for his visits. He always assumed as cheerful an appearance
as possible. Armed with bright new five-cent and ten-cent bills (the wounded, he found, were
often "broke," and the sight of a little money "helped their spirits"), with books and stationery
and tobacco, for one a twist of good strong green tea, for another a good home-made rice-pudding,
or a jar of sparkling but innocent blackberry and cherry syrup, a small bottle of horse-radish
pickle, or a large handsome apple, he would "make friends." "What I have I also give you,"
he cried from the bottom of his grieved, tempestuous heart. He would talk, or write letters--passionate
love-letters, too--or sit silent, in mute and tender kindness. "Long, long, I gazed ... leaning
my chin in my hands, passing sweet hours, immortal and mystic hours, with you, dearest comrade--not
a tear, not a word, Vigil of silence, love and death, vigil for you my son and my soldier."
And how many a mother must have blessed the stranger who could bring such last news of a son
as this: "And now like many other noble and good men, after serving his country as a soldier,
he has yielded up his young life at the very outset in her service. Such things are gloomy--yet
there is a text, 'God doeth all things well'--the meaning of which, after due time, appears
to the soul." It is only love that can comfort the loving.

He forced nothing on these friends of a day, so many of them near their last farewell. A poor
wasted young man asks him to read a chapter in the New Testament, and Whitman chooses that
which describes Christ's Crucifixion. Jim made no mention of his disappointments and, neither
far as he could, he admitted his hunger so to himself nor to S. It was merely a matter of form,
applying for the month's leave; this had been read on asks from the
beginning. Through them we reach to an understanding of a poet who
chose not signal and beautiful episodes out of the past, nor the rare moments of existence,
for theme, but took all life, within and around him in vast bustling America, for his poetic
province. Like a benign barbaric sun he surveys the world, ever at noon. I am the man, I suffer'd,
I was there, he cries in the "Song of Myself." I do not despise you priests, all times, the
world over.... He could not despise anything, not even his fellow-poets, because he himself
was everything. His verse sometimes seems mere verbiage, but it is always a higgledy-piggledy,
Santa Claus bagful of things. And he could penetrate to the essential reality. He tells in
his "Drum-Taps" how one daybreak he arose in camp, and saw three still forms stretched out
in the eastern radiance, how with light fingers he just lifted the blanket from each cold face
in turn: the first elderly, gaunt, and grim--Who are you, my dear comrade? The next with cheeks
yet blooming--Who are you, sweet boy?

True poetry focuses experience, not merely transmits it. It must redeem it for ever from transitoriness
and evanescence. Whitman incontinently pours experience out in a Niagara-like cataract. But
in spite of his habitual publicity he was at heart of a "shy, brooding, impassioned devotional
type"; in spite of his self-conscious, arrogant virility, he was to the end of his life an
entranced child. He came into the world, saw and babbled. His deliberate method of writing
could have had no other issue. A subject would occur to him, a kind of tag. He would scribble
it down on a scrap of paper and drop it into a drawer. Day by day this first impulse would
evoke fresh "poemets," until at length the accumulation was exhaustive. Then he merely gutted
his treasury and the ode was complete. It was only when sense and feeling attained a sort of
ecstasy that he succeeded in distilling the true essence that is poetry and in enstopping it
in a crystal phial of form.

The prose of his "Specimen Days," indeed, is often nearer to poetry than his verse:

