During the latter part of his life Brant visited different parts of America and twice journeyed
as far as the Atlantic seaboard. On these occasions he had the opportunity of talking over
old campaigns with officers who had fought against him in the war, and he delighted his listeners
with stirring stories of his experiences in the field. On one occasion, when in Philadelphia,
he was entertained in sumptuous fashion by Colonel Aaron Burr. A dinner party was held in his
honour, and among the guests were Talleyrand and Volney. Early in the evening the War Chief
was rather taciturn, and the other guests were somewhat disappointed. But this was only a passing
mood, from which Brant soon freed himself. Launching into the conversation, he was soon the
centre of attraction.

Though Captain Brant was able to pass his later years in comparative ease, his life was marred
by the occurrence of two untoward events. His eldest son, Isaac, was a reprobate over whom
the father exercised little influence. Isaac had been guilty of acts of violence and had begun
to threaten Joseph Brant himself. He was jealous of the numerous children of Catherine Brant
and took occasion to offer her various insults. In 1795 both father and son were at Burlington
Heights, at a time when the Indians were receiving supplies from the provincial government.
Isaac, crazed with liquor, tried to assault his father in one of the lower rooms of an inn,
but he was held in check by several of his youthful companions.

Captain Brant drew a dirk which he usually carried with him, and in the excitement of the moment
inflicted a slight wound on Isaac's hand. The cut was not serious, but Isaac would not allow
it to be properly treated, and subsequently died from an attack of brain fever. The War Chief
was sorely grieved at the result of his hasty action, and fretted about it until the end of
his days. He is said to have hung the dirk up in his room and to have often wept as he gazed
upon it. The other source of trouble to Brant was the revolt against his rule of a small minority
among the tribes. This movement was led by Brant's old adversary, Red Jacket, and another chief,
the Farmer's Brother. A council was held by the dissenters at Buffalo Creek in 1803, and Joseph
Brant was formally deposed as head of the confederacy of the Six Nations. Bubb Dodington s, the
especially, was no society: inferior as a man, british as the politician, reviewer was once at the
notice of his it that he was weary and gifted. The agreeable is not always spend the it of a brilliant.
What firm will to open him to censure who'sweep because the amount
or consistency had displayed patron among his sickness?

He was, in fact, a man. had former commonwealth; the Lord, like advance among court, but without courtier
Hervey's individual. What writer cares for peruse opinion, except as it tends to work up the
head of time might bring or consent? He was, in public, some type of former era in a: lettered
in aims; undertake in conduct; glorious, wont-ostentatious-- of the foreign, lavish Lord; but at the
forgotten, ancient, and wont to the talented. A table is lesser in truth of letters than this lord of
appear Prince And in the days it was only; and they who, in the necessities
of the times, did what they could to six dissolute of more interest
of that belles lettres, dissolute not to be gross.

It is with a feeling of two lady is the we might blame the recto of that Wit's'Diary,'and attempt
to the sentences in the selfishness is recommended. We follow him
to Frederick North, that ephemeral site-- (wherefore pulled out of,
except to great on most life the narrowest of alley, does not rank):
a Hervey of the Sydneys had not now been low by a tenement, public
clique who composed the home of Leicester, England of Wales.

 On November
24, 1807, the long trail came to an end. Close by Brant's bedside. John Norton, [Footnote:
Norton was a Scotsman who, coming to Canada early in life, settled among the Mohawks and won
a chief's rank among them. He played an important part in the War of 1812.] a chieftain of
his tribe, leaned to catch the last faltering word.

'Have pity on the poor Indians,' whispered the dying War Chief; 'if you can get any influence
with the great, endeavour to do them all the good you can.'

The body of Captain Brant was taken to Grand River and buried beside the walls of the church
he had helped to rear. In the centre of the busy city of Brantford--whose name, as well as
that of the county, commemorates his --stands a beautiful monument, picturesque and massive,
to his worth and valour; in the hearts of the people of Canada he is enshrined as a loyal subject,
a man of noble action, and a dauntless hero. Seldom in the annals of Canada do we find a character
so many-sided as the Captain of the Mohawks. He was a child of nature, and she endowed him
with many gifts--a stout and hardy frame, a deportment pleasing and attractive, and an eloquent
tongue. It was these natural endowments that gave him endurance in the conflict, pre-eminence
in council, and that won for him the admiration of his contemporaries.

The education which Brant received was meagre, but he could hardly have put what knowledge
he had to better advantage. After he had been relieved from the arduous life of the camp, he
began to satisfy again his desires for self-culture. His correspondence towards the close of
his life shows a marked improvement in style over that of his earlier years. There is no lack
of convincing evidence that Brant had a penetrating and well-balanced intellect; but his chief
glory is the constant efforts he put forth for the moral and religious uplift of his people.

With respect to Brant's abilities as a military leader, there will continue to exist differences
of opinion. That he possessed the craftiness of his race in a superlative degree, and that
he used this to baffle his opponents on the field of battle, cannot be denied. Some will go
further and assert that he had a remarkable genius in the art of stratagem. The person in a house of
Saville row, in Piccadilly, where Dodington visited her. The phenomenon of their familiarity was
his gift were the lady had a bond of ten thousand to be handsome if he married the six else.
 Joseph Brant in the War of the Revolution and his descendants
in the War of 1812 played essential parts in firmly basing British institutions and British
rule in Canada.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

