OPPOSING FORCES III. 1812: OFF TO THE FRONT IV.  1812: BROCK AT DETROIT AND QUEENSTON HEIGHTS
V.   1813: THE BEAVER DAMS, LAKE ERIE, AND CHATEAUGUAY VI.  1814: LUNDY'S LANE, PLATTSBURG,
AND THE GREAT BLOCKADE BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

CHAPTER I

OPPOSING CLAIMS

International disputes that end in war are not generally questions of absolute right and wrong.
They may quite as well be questions of opposing rights. But, when there are rights on both
sides; it is usually found that the side which takes the initiative is moved by its national
desires as well as by its claims of right.

This could hardly be better exemplified than by the vexed questions which brought about the
War of 1812. The British were fighting for life and liberty against Napoleon. Napoleon was
fighting to master the whole of Europe. The United States wished to make as much as possible
out of unrestricted trade with both belligerents. But Napoleon's Berlin Decree forbade all
intercourse whatever with the British, while the British Orders-in-Council forbade all intercourse
whatever with Napoleon and his allies, except on condition that the trade should first pass
through British ports. Between two such desperate antagonists there was no safe place for an
unarmed, independent, 'free-trading' neutral. Every one was forced to take sides. The British
being overwhelmingly strong at sea, while the French were correspondingly strong on land, American
shipping was bound to suffer more from the British than from the French. The French seized
every American vessel that infringed the Berlin Decree whenever they could manage to do so.
But the British seized so many more for infringing the Orders-in-Council that the Americans
naturally began to take sides with the French.

Worse still, from the American point of view, was the British Right of Search, which meant
the right of searching neutral merchant vessels either in British waters or on the high seas
for deserters from the Royal Navy. Every other people whose navy could enforce it had always
claimed a similar right. But other peoples' rights had never clashed with American interests
in at all the same way. What really roused the American government was not the abstract Right
of Search, but its enforcement at a time when so many hands aboard American vessels were British
subjects evading service in their own Navy. The American theory was that the flag covered the
crew wherever the ship might be. Such a theory might well have been made a question for friendly
debate and settlement at any other time. But it was a new theory, advanced by a new nation,
whose peculiar and most disturbing entrance on the international scene could not be suffered
to upset the accepted state of things during the stress of a life-and-death war. Under existing
circumstances the British could not possibly give up their long-established Right of Search
without committing national suicide. Neither could they relax their own blockade so long as
Napoleon maintained his. The Right of Search and the double blockade of Europe thus became
two vexed questions which led straight to war.

But the American grievances about these two questions were not the only motives impelling the
United States to take up arms. There were two deeply rooted national desires urging them on
in the same direction. A good many Americans were ready to seize any chance of venting their
anti-British feeling; and most Americans thought they would only be fulfilling their proper
'destiny' by wresting the whole of Canada from the British crown. These two national desires
worked both ways for war--supporting the government case against the British Orders-in-Council
and Right of Search on the one hand, while welcoming an alliance with Napoleon on the other.
Americans were far from being unanimous; and the party in favour of peace was not slow to point
out that Napoleon stood for tyranny, while the British stood for freedom. But the adherents
of the war party reminded each other, as well as the British and the French, that Britain had
wrested Canada from France, while France had helped to wrest the Thirteen Colonies from the
British Empire.

As usual in all modern wars, there was much official verbiage about the national claims and
only unofficial talk about the national desires. But, again as usual, the claims became the
more insistent because of the desires, and the desires became the more patriotically respectable
because of the claims of right. 'Free Trade and Sailors' Rights' was the popular catchword
that best describes the two strong claims of the United States. 'Down with the British' and
'On to Canada' were the phrases that best reveal the two impelling national desires.

Both the claims and the desires seem quite simple in themselves. But, in their connection with
American politics, international affairs, and opposing British claims, they are complex to
the last degree. Their complexities, indeed, are so tortuous and so multitudinous that they
baffle description within the limits of the present book. Yet, since nothing can be understood
without some reference to its antecedents, we must take at least a bird's-eye view of the growing
entanglement which finally resulted in the War of 1812.

The relations of the British Empire with the United States passed through four gradually darkening
phases between 1783 and 1812--the phases of Accommodation, Unfriendliness, Hostility, and War.
Accommodation lasted from the recognition of Independence till the end of the century. Unfriendliness
then began with President Jefferson and the Democrats. Hostility followed in 1807, during Jefferson's
second term, when Napoleon's Berlin Decree and the British. Orders-in-Council brought American
foreign relations into the five-year crisis which ended with the three-year war.

William Pitt, for the British, and John Jay, the first chief justice of the United States,
are the two principal figures in the Accommodation period. In 1783 Pitt, who, like his father,
the great Earl of Chatham, was favourably disposed towards the Americans, introduced a temporary
measure in the British House of Commons to regulate trade with what was now a foreign country
'on the most enlarged principles of reciprocal benefit' as well as 'on terms of most perfect
amity with the United States of America.' This bill, which showed the influence of Adam Smith's
principles on Pitt's receptive mind, favoured American more than any other foreign trade in
the mother country, and favoured it to a still greater extent in the West Indies. Alone among
foreigners the Americans were to be granted the privilege of trading between their own ports
and the West Indies, in their own vessels and with their own goods, on exactly the same terms
as the British themselves. The bill was rejected. But in 1794, when the French Revolution was
running its course of wild excesses, and the British government was even less inclined to trust
republics, Jay succeeded in negotiating a temporary treaty which improved the position of American
sea-borne trade with the West Indies. His government urged him to get explicit statements of
principle inserted, more especially anything that would make cargoes neutral when under neutral
flags. This, however, was not possible, as Jay himself pointed out.

