In spite of all these differences, Lucien always counted on the affection of his brother to
obtain him a kingdom.  I guarantee the authenticity of the following incident, which was related
to me by a reliable person: Lucien had in charge of his establishment a friend of his early
youth, the same age as himself, and like him born in Corsica, who was named Campi, and enjoyed
the most confidential relations in the count's household.  On the day that the 'Moniteur' gave
a list of the new French princes, Campi was promenading in the handsome gallery of pictures
collected by Lucien, with the latter's young secretary, when the following conversation occurred
between them.  "You have no doubt read the 'Moniteur' of to-day?"--"Yes."--"You have seen that
all the members of the family have had the title of French princes bestowed on them, and the
name of monsieur le count alone is wanting to the list."--"What matters that?  There are kingdoms."--"Considering
the care that sovereigns take to keep them, there will hardly be any vacancy."-- "Ah, well,
they will be made.  All the royal families of Europe are worn out, and we must have new ones."
Thereupon Campi was silent, and advised the young man to hold his tongue, if he wished to preserve
the favor of the count.  However, it was not long after this before the young secretary repeated
this confidential conversation, which, without being singularly striking, gives, however, an
idea of the amount of confidence which should be placed in the pretended moderation of Count
Lucien, and in the epigrams against his brother and his family which have been attributed to him.

No one in the chateau was ignorant of the hostility which existed between Lucien Bonaparte
and the Empress Josephine; and to make their court to the latter the former habitues of Malmaison,
now become the courtiers of the Tuileries; were in the habit of relating to her the most piquant
anecdotes they could collect relative to the younger brother of the Emperor.  Thus it happened
that by chance one day I heard a dignified person and a senator of the Empire give the Empress,
in the gayest manner imaginable, very minute details as to one of the temporary liaisons of
Count Lucien.  I do not guarantee the authenticity of the anecdote, and I experience in writing
it more embarrassment than the senator displayed in relating it, and omit, indeed, a mass of
details which the narrator gave without blushing, and without driving off his audience; for
my object is to throw light upon the family secrets of the imperial household, and on the habits
of the persons who were nearest the Emperor, and not to publish scandal, though I could justify
myself by the example of a dignitary of the Empire.

Count Lucien (I do not know in what year) established himself in the good graces of Mademoiselle
Meserai, an actress of the Theatre Francais, who was both pretty and sprightly.  The conquest
was not difficult, in the first place, because this had never been her character towards any
one, and, secondly, because the artiste knew the great wealth of the count, and believed him
to be prodigal.  The first attentions of her lover confirmed her in this opinion, and she demanded
a house.  He at once presented her with one richly and elegantly furnished, the deed being
put in her hands on the day she took possession; and each visit of the count added to the actress's
wardrobe or jewel-case some new gifts.  This lasted some months, at the end of which Lucien
became disgusted with his bargain, and began to consider by what means to break it without
losing too much.  Among other things, he had made mademoiselle a present of a pair of girandoles,
containing diamonds of great value.  In one of the last interviews, before the count had allowed
any signs of coldness to be seen, he perceived the girandoles on the toilet-table of his mistress,
and, taking them in his hands, said, "Really, my dear, you do me injustice; why do you not
show more confidence in me?  I do not wish you to wear jewelry so much out of date as these."--"Why,
it has been only six months since you gave them to me."--"I know it; but a woman of good taste,
a woman who respects herself, should never wear anything six months old.  I will take the ear-rings
and send them to de Villiers [he was the count's jeweler] with orders to mount them as I wish."
The count was tenderly thanked for so delicate an attention, and put the girandoles in his
pocket, with one or two necklaces which had also been his gift, and which did not appear to
him sufficiently new in style, and the breach took place before any of these had been returned.

Notwithstanding this, Mademoiselle believed herself well provided for with her furniture and
her house, until one morning the true proprietor came to ask her wishes as to making a new
lease.  She ran to examine her deed, which she had not yet thought to do, and found that it
was simply a description of the property, at the end of which was a receipt for two years' rent.

During our stay at Genoa the heat was insupportable; from this the Emperor suffered greatly,
saying he had never experienced the like in Egypt, and undressed many times a day.  His bed
was covered with a mosquito netting, for the insects were numerous and worrying.  The windows
of the bedroom looked out upon a grand terrace on the margin of the sea, and from them could
be seen the gulf and all the surrounding country.  The fetes given by the city were superb.
An immense number of vessels were fastened together, and filled with orange and citrontrees
and shrubs, some covered with flowers, some with fruits, and all combined formed a most exquisite
floating garden which their Majesties visited on a magnificent yacht.

On his return to France, the Emperor made no halt between Turin and Fontainebleau.  He traveled
incognito, in the name of the minister of the interior, and went at such speed that at each
relay they were obliged to throw water on the wheels; but in spite of this his Majesty complained
of the slowness of the postilions, and cried continually, "Hurry up!  hurry up!  we are hardly
moving."  Many of the servants' carriages were, left in the rear; though mine experienced no
delay, and I arrived at each relay at the same time as the Emperor.

In ascending the steep hill of Tarare, the Emperor alighted from the carriage, as did also
Berthier, who accompanied him; the carriages of the suite being some distance behind, as the
drivers had stopped to breathe their horses.

His Majesty saw, climbing the hill a few steps before him, an old, decrepit woman, who hobbled
along with great difficulty.  As the Emperor approached her he inquired why, infirm as she
was, and apparently so fatigued, she should attempt to travel so difficult a road.

"Sir," replied she, "they tell me the Emperor is to pass along here, and I wish to see him
before I die."  His Majesty, who liked to be amused, said to her, "Ah, but why trouble yourself
about him?  He is a tyrant, like all the rest."  The good woman, indignant at this remark,
angrily replied, "At least, Sir, he is our choice; and since we must have a master, it is at
least right that we should choose him."  I was not an eye-witness of this incident; but I heard
the Emperor himself relate it to Dr. Corvisart, with some remarks upon the good sense of the
masses, who, according to the opinion of his Majesty and his chief doctor, had generally formed
very correct opinions.

CHAPTER XXVII.

His Majesty the Emperor passed the month of January, 1806, at Munich and Stuttgard, during
which, in the first of these two capitals, the marriage of the vice-king and the Princess of
Bavaria was celebrated.  On this occasion there was a succession of magnificent fetes, of which
the Emperor was always the hero, and at which his hosts tried, by every variety of homage,
to express to this great man the admiration with which his military genius inspired them.

The vice-king and vice-queen had never met before their marriage, but were soon as much attached
to each other as if they had been acquainted for years, for never were two persons more perfectly
congenial.  No princess, and indeed no mother, could have manifested more affection and care
for her children than the vice-queen; and she might well serve as a model for all women.  I
have been told an incident concerning this admirable princess which I take pleasure in relating
here.  One of her daughters, who was quite young, having spoken in a very harsh tone to her
maid, her most serene highness the vice-queen was informed of it, and in order to give her
daughter a lesson, forbade the servants to render the young princess any service, or to reply
to any of her demands, from that time.  The child at once complained to her mother, who told
her gravely that when any one received, like her, the care and attention of all around them,
it was necessary to merit this, and to show her appreciation by consideration and an obliging
politeness.  Then she required her to ask pardon of the 'femme de chambre', and henceforward
to speak to her politely, assuring her that by this means she would always obtain compliance
with all reasonable and just requests she might make.

The child obeyed; and the lesson was of such benefit to her that she became, if general report
is to be believed, one of the most accomplished princesses of Europe.  The report of her perfections
spread abroad even to the New World, which contended for her with the Old, and has been fortunate
enough to obtain her.  She is at this time, I think, Empress of Brazil.

His Majesty the King of Bavaria, Maximilian Joseph, then about fifty years of age, was very
tall, with a noble and attractive physiognomy and fascinating manners.  Before the Revolution
he had been colonel of an Alsatian regiment in the service of France, under the name of Prince
Maximilian, or Prince Max as the soldiers called him, and stationed at Strasburg, where he
left a reputation for elegance and chivalrous gallantry.  His subjects, his family, his servants,
everybody, adored him.  He often took long walks through the city of Munich in the morning,
went to the market, inquired the price of grain, entered the shops, spoke to every one, especially
the children, whom he persuaded to go to school. This excellent prince did not fear to compromise
his dignity by the simplicity of his manners; and he was right, for I do not think any one
ever failed to show him respect, and the love which he inspired lessened in no wise the veneration
which was felt for him.  Such was his devotion to the Emperor, that his kindly feelings extended
even to the persons who by their functions approached nearest to his Majesty, and were in the
best position to know his needs and wishes.  Thus (I do not relate it out of vanity, but in
proof of what I have just said) his Majesty the King of Bavaria never came to see the Emperor,
that he did not take my hand and inquire first after the health of his Imperial Majesty, then
after my own, adding many things which plainly showed his attachment for the Emperor and his
natural goodness.

His Majesty the King of Bavaria is now in the tomb, like him who gave him a throne; but this
tomb is still a royal tomb, and the loyal Bavarians can come to kneel and weep over it.  The
Emperor, on the contrary--

     [Constant wrote this before the return, in 1840, of the ashes of
     Napoleon to rest on "the banks of the Seine, amid the French people
     whom he loved so well," where in a massive urn of porphyry, and
     beneath the gilded dome of the Invalides, in the most splendid tomb
     of the centuries, sleeps now the soldier of Lodi, Marengo,
     Austerlitz, Wagram, and Waterloo.--TRANS.]

The virtuous Maximilian was able to leave to a worthy son the scepter which he had received
from him who perished an exile at St. Helena. Prince Louis, the present King of Bavaria, and
to-day perhaps the best king in Europe, was not so tall as his august father, neither was his
face so handsome; and, unfortunately, he was afflicted with an extreme deafness, which made
him raise his voice without knowing it, and in addition to this his utterance was impeded by
a slight stammering.  This prince was grave and studious; and the Emperor recognized his merit,
but did not rely upon his friendship.  This was not because he thought him wanting in loyalty,
for the prince royal was above such suspicion; but the Emperor was aware that he belonged to
a party which feared the subjection of Germany, and who suspected that the French, although
they had so far attacked only Austria, had ideas of conquest over all the German powers.

However, what I have just stated in regard to the prince royal relates only to the years subsequent
to 1806; for I am certain that at that epoch his sentiments did not differ from those of the
good Maximilian, who was, as I have said, full of gratitude to the Emperor.  Prince Louis came
to Paris at the beginning of this year; and I saw him many times at the court theater in the
box of the prince arch-chancellor, where they both slept in company and very profoundly.  This
was also such a habit with Cambaceres, that when the Emperor asked for him, and was told that
monseigneur was at the theater, he replied, "Very well, very well; he is taking his siesta;
let us not disturb him!"

The King of Wurtemburg was large, and so fat that it was said of him God had put him in the
world to prove how far the skin of a man could be stretched.  His stomach was of such dimensions
that it was found necessary to make a broad, round incision in front of his seat at the table;
and yet, notwithstanding this precaution, he was obliged to hold his plate on a level with
his chin to drink his soup.  He was very fond of hunting, either on horseback, or in a little
Russian carriage drawn by four horses, which he often drove himself.  He was fond of horseback
riding, but it was no easy task to find a mount of size and strength sufficient to carry so
heavy a burden.  It was necessary that the poor animal should be progressively trained; and
in order to accomplish this the king's equerry fastened round the horse a girth loaded with
pieces of lead, increasing the weight daily till it equalled that of his Majesty. The king
was despotic, hard, and even cruel, ever ready to sign the sentence of the condemned, and in
almost all cases, if what is said at Stuttgart be true, increased the penalty inflicted by
the judges.  Hard to please, and brutal, he often struck the people of his household; and it
is even said that he did not spare her Majesty the queen, his wife, who was a sister of the
present King of England.  Notwithstanding all this, he was a prince whose knowledge and brilliant
mind the Emperor esteemed; for they had a mutual affection for each other, and he found him
faithful to his alliance to the very end.  King Frederic of Wurtemburg had a brilliant and
numerous court, at which he displayed great magnificence.

The hereditary prince was much beloved; he was less haughty and more humane than his father,
and was said to be just and liberal.

Besides those crowned by his hand, the Emperor, while in Bavaria, received a great number of
the princes of the Confederation; and they usually dined with his Majesty.  In this crowd of
royal courtiers the prince primate was noticeable, who differed in nothing as to manners, bearing,
and dress from the most fashionable gentlemen of Paris.  The Emperor paid him special attention.
I cannot pay the same eulogy to the toilet of the princesses, duchesses, and other noble ladies;
for most of them dressed in exceedingly bad taste, and, displaying neither art nor grace, covered
their heads with plumes, bits of gold, and silver gauze, fastened with a great quantity of
diamond-headed pins.

The equipages the German nobility used were all very large coaches, which were a necessity
from the enormous hoops still worn by those ladies; and this adherence to antiquated fashions
was all the more surprising, because at that time Germany enjoyed the great advantage of possessing
two fashion journals.  One was the translation of the magazine published by Mesangere; and
the other, also edited at Paris, was translated and printed at Mannheim.  These ridiculous
carriages, which much resembled our ancient diligences, were drawn by very inferior horses,
harnessed with ropes, and placed so far apart that an immense space was needed to turn the
carriage.

The Prince of Saxe-Gotha was long and thin.  In spite of his great age, he was enough of a
dandy to order at Paris, from our hairdresser Michalon, some pretty little wigs of youthful
blonde, curled like the hair of Cupid; but, apart from this, he was an excellent man.  I recollect,
a propos of the noble German ladies, to have seen at the court theater at Fontainebleau a princess
of the Confederation who was being presented to their Majesties.  The toilet of her Highness
announced an immense progress in the elegance of civilization beyond the Rhine; for, renouncing
the Gothic hoops, the princess had adopted the very latest fashions, and, though nearly seventy
years of age, wore a dress of black lace over red satin, and her coiffure consisted of a white
muslin veil, fastened by a wreath of roses, in the style of the vestals of the opera. She had
with her a granddaughter, brilliant with the charm of youth, and admired by the whole court,
although her costume was less stylish than that of her grandmother.

I heard her Majesty, the Empress Josephine, relate one day that she had much difficulty in
repressing a smile when, among a number of German princesses presented to her, one was announced
under the name of Cunegonde [Cunegonde was the mistress of Candide in Voltaire's novel of Candide.]
Her Majesty added that, when she saw the princess take her seat, she imagined she saw her lean
to one side.  Assuredly the Empress had read the adventures of Candide and the daughter of
the very noble baron of Thunder-Ten-Trunck.

At Paris, in the spring of 1806, I saw almost as many members of the Confederation as I had
seen in the capitals of Bavaria and Wurtemburg. A French name had the precedence among these
names of foreign princes. It was that of Prince Murat, who in the month of March was made Grand-
duke of Berg and Cleves.  After Prince Louis of Bavaria, arrived the hereditary prince of Baden,
who came to Paris to marry a niece of the Empress.

At the beginning this union was not happy.  The Princess Stephanie (de Beauharnais) was a very
pretty woman, graceful and witty; and the Emperor had wished to make a great lady of her, and
had married her without consulting her wishes.  Prince Charles-Louis-Frederic was then twenty
years of age, and though exceedingly good, brave, and generous, and possessing many admirable
traits, was heavy and phlegmatic, ever maintaining an icy gravity, and entirely destitute of
the qualities which would attract a young princess accustomed to the brilliant elegance of
the imperial court.

The marriage took place in April, to the great satisfaction of the prince, who that day appeared
to do violence to his usual gravity, and even allowed a smile to approach his lips.  The day
passed off very well; but, when the time came for retiring, the princess refused to let him
share her room, and for eight days was inexorable.

He was told that the princess did not like the arrangement of his hair, and that nothing inspired
her with more aversion than a queue; upon which the good prince hastened to have his hair cut
close, but when she saw him thus shorn, she laughed immoderately, and exclaimed that he was
more ugly a la Titus than he was before.  It was impossible that the intelligence and the kind
heart of the princess could fail to appreciate the good and solid qualities of her husband;
she learned to love him as tenderly as she was loved, and I am assured that the august couple
lived on excellent terms.

Three months after this marriage, the prince left his wife to follow the Emperor, first on
the campaign in Prussia, and afterwards in Poland.  The death of his grandfather, which happened
some time after the Austrian campaign of 1809, put him in possession of the grand duchy, whereupon
he resigned the command of his troops to his uncle the Count of Hochberg, and returned to his
government, never more to leave it.

I saw him again with the princess at Erfurt, where they told me he had become jealous of the
Emperor Alexander, who paid assiduous court to his wife; at which the prince took alarm and
abruptly left Erfurt, carrying with him the princess, of whom it must in justice be said that
there had been on her part not the slightest imprudence to arouse this jealousy, which seems
very pardonable, however, in the husband of so charming a woman.

The prince's health was always delicate, and from his earliest youth alarming symptoms had
been noticed in him; and this physical condition was no doubt, in a great measure, the main
source of the melancholy which marked his character.  He died in 1818, after a very long and
painful illness, during which his wife nursed him with the most affectionate care, leaving
four children, two sons and two daughters.  The two sons died young, and would have left the
grand duchy of Baden without heirs, if the Counts Hochberg had not been recognized as members
of the ducal family.  The grand-duchess is to-day devoting her life to the education of her
daughters, who promise to equal her in graces and virtues.  The nuptials of the Prince and
Princess of Baden were celebrated by brilliant fetes; at Rambouillet took place a great hunting-
party, in which their Majesties, with many members of their family, and all the princes of
Baden, Cleves, etc., traversed on foot the forests of Rambouillet.

I recollect another hunting-party, which took place about the same time in the forest of Saint-Germain,
to which the Emperor invited the ambassador of the Sublime Porte, then just arrived at Paris.
His Turkish Excellency followed the chase with ardor, but without moving a muscle of his austere
countenance.  The animal having been brought to bay, his Majesty had a gun handed to the Turkish
ambassador, that he might have, the honor of firing the first shot; but he refused, not conceiving,
doubtless, that any pleasure could be found in slaying at short range a poor, exhausted animal,
who no longer had the power to protect itself, even by flight.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

