    "I hear from Fife to-day that there landed at Leith on Sunday last
    four hundred of the Dutch troops. I hope that's all that are comeing
    by sea. I have the King's Declaration, which is to be reprinted
    here, and shall be dispers'd in a few days. The less that it be
    spoke that the King is to land soon, I believe the better, until he
    actually does, for that but make the Government more alert. Were he
    but once landed, I have reason to belive that there will be a new
    face of affairs seen abroad as well as at home in the King's favour,
    which is all I dare yet adventure to trust of it to paper; but I
    hope in God were the King once with us all will be well.

    "There are more officers comeing to us from abroad different wayes,
    so it's likely they may be dropping in every day. The Duke of
    Berwick stays behind for a very good reason, and is to follow. The
    King has been pleased to confer new honours on me, but I do not
    think it fitt to take it on me til he comes, and if it pleases not
    God he come to us safe, I am indifferent what becomes of all I ever
    had, and this may go with the rest. It is goodness in him, and more
    than I askt or deserve. I will long to hear from you; and tho' I
    desire you not to let the news I write you be much talkt of, yet I
    suppose it will be no secret, for I am obliged to communicate what I
    get to so many that it cannot possible be keept, and yet I cannot
    help this. Tho' Lord Huntley said little to me to-day upon my
    shewing him my letters, yet I know it from good hands he is not a
    bitt in better humour and that he will now positively go north;
    which I suppose he'll write of to me to-morrow, for 'tis seldom now
    he'll either see me or let me see him, tho' I take all the ways I
    can to please and humour him, but all will not do: however, I hope
    will not have many followers. Master of Sinclair is gone this day to
    see his father upon a sharp letter he had from him yesterday about
    his behaviour. Some others are ashamed of the part they acted, but
    if the King come not soon all of them will relapse again. The clans
    stand firm, and I hope will to the last.

    "Pray try to get notice of what private letters from London say upon
    our proposeing terms, and let me know as soon as you can. Adieu."

It is curious to trace the revival of the Earl's hopes, and the increase of his confidence.
The following letter contains, among other circumstances, a reference to the supposed attempt
of the Earl of Stair, in France, to assassinate James.

                                                 "December 10th, 1715.

    "Sir,

    "Yesterday I had yours of the fourth and fifth, for which I thank
    you. I wrote to you on the eighth, which I hope you got safe, and
    in it I told you of one of the messengers I had sent to France being
    returned, and with him General Eclin and Mr. Charles Fleming, and
    some money: since that Doctor Abercromby is returned and Lord Edward
    Drummond is come with him and brought some more money. They come off
    the same day with the others, and landed the same day at Aberdeen
    the others did at Montrose. They only brought duplicates of the
    dispatches I had by the others, and a letter to me from the Q----
    with a pacquet from her to the K----, by which you may be sure he is
    sail'd, and we hourly expect to hear of his landing. Since those
    people came, those amongst us who had been uneasy, are now comeing
    to be in good humour again, particularly Lord Huntley; and I have
    agreed to his going north with some of his horse to get all his
    people there together to suppress those about Inverness, and also to
    have them in readiness against the K. comes. Pray God send him safe
    and soon, and then I do not despair of things going right still. Our
    whole prisoners almost, I mean the private men, are like to take on
    since they heard of the K----g's being certainly a-comeing; and
    since they saw the two enclosed papers, they say that were he once
    come, there will be news of their armie and all those prisoners.
    Even those who do not lift with us, pray openly for the K----, and
    that God may keep him out of the hands of his enimies.

    "The two enclosed are sent about to a great many places: it is
    better to delay dispersing the K----'s declaration til he arrive,
    since I hope that is near.

    "I admear we hear no certain accounts of the Duke of Ormond, for the
    fifteenth inst. the K---- and Q---- too write to me that he was
    saild a second time for England.

    "Pray God it may be well with him, and if he do not, then I wish he
    may come here with all my heart.

    "We have heard nothing as yet of the Duke of Argyle's return from
    London, and I imagine we shall hear nothing from him upon it, when
    he does get it and I hope he shall never be askt for it more by us.
    The Duke of Atholl will himself send his men against Crafourd.

    "I believe I forgot to tell you in my last that Colonel Hay mist
    very narrowly being murdered in France, takeing him for the K----
    (being in one of his cheases), by Lord Stair's gang, and in their
    pockets Lord Stair's orders were found to go to such a place, and
    there obey what orders they should receive from Count Douglass[123]
    (Lightly), let them be never so desperate. This is something so
    horrid that I want words to express it. I tell it you just as those
    from France tell me. The fellow was imprisoned by the government
    there and reclaimed by Lord Stair. Lord Clairmont was actually
    reclaimed by the Regent before they come away; so his being brought
    to England after, may work something. I have just now a packet of
    news sent me by A. M., for which I thank you. Notwithstanding this
    great new General's being come, I see not how they can do anything
    at Stirling till the Dutch join them, and that cannot be yet for
    some time; pray Heavens the K---- come before them! I know by other
    accounts as well as yours, from abroad, that they are not above four
    thousand complete and some of these are lost. Our Highlanders have
    got in their heads a mighty contempt for them, which may do good.
    This goes by the Hole,[124] from when your packet yesterday was sent
    me. I have nothing further to add now, but I hope soon to send you
    agreable news. Pray give my service to I. H. and desire him to make
    my compliments to his landlady and tel her, I hope she is now right
    with her son, which I am exceeding glad of. Adieu."

At length, on the twenty-second of December, James landed at Peterhead, after a voyage of seven
days. His arrival dispelled many doubts of his personal courage, since, after all his deliberations,
he adopted by no means the least hazardous course by traversing the British ocean, which was
beset by British men-of-war. He had sailed from Dunkirk in the small vessel in which he had
embarked, and which was followed by two other vessels, containing his domestics, and stores
for the use of his army. His immediate attendants were disguised as French officers, and his
retinue as seamen. It had been the Chevalier's original intention to have landed in the Frith
of Tay; but observing a sail which he suspected to be unfriendly, he altered his course, and
landed at Peterhead, where the property of the Earl Marischal was situated. The ship in which
the Chevalier sailed was, however, near enough to the shore to be able, by signals, to make
signs to his friends of his approach. At Perth the intelligence was received with the utmost
joy, and produced a most favourable effect, even among the prisoners of war, which Lord Mar
describes in the following letter. Up to the twenty-eighth of the month he had not seen the Prince:

                                                   "The 28th December.

    "Yours of the twenty-second I have got just now by the Hole, and I
    sent one that way to you yesterday from our friend here, in which
    you have the joyfull news of the King's safe arival, which I hope in
    God will effectually sement what you recomend to us. Our friend went
    yesterday morning to meett his master, who I hope will be here with
    us again Friday; I pray God turn the hearts of his enemies, both for
    the sake of him and their poor country! It will be a monstruous
    crime never to be forgiven, if they now draw their swords against
    him, since he has been pleased to give them a most gratious
    indemnity for all that is past, without exception. All will now soon
    be dispersed in the North that opose him. Sutherland's men are
    deserting him, and the Frasers are all gone home. I make no doubt
    but that we are masters of Inverness, and so consequently the whole
    North before this time. I make no doubt but that the King's presence
    will forward everything: it has already had great effects here: and
    those that were for separate measurs have reason to be ashamed, and
    I hope they will make amends by their future behaveor. We have sent
    over some of the declarations, and ane other paket of them is gone
    this night. Now is the time for every body to bestir themselves, and
    that all resort here to their master. I ame persuaded you'l not be
    idle. Those that made a pretext of the King's not being landed, are
    now left unexcusable; and if those kind of folks now sit still and
    look any more on, they ought to be worse treated than our worst
    enemies. I beg of you to send us what accounts you can learn on your
    side, and what they are now to do upon this news. I hope in God we
    shall now be soon ready to give them a meeting! It will be of
    consequence for us to hear often from your side, and we have little
    other accounts than from you. I have sent yours by ane express this
    day to our friend, and I hope to hear from you soon in return to the
    last that went on Munday. The K---- lay on Saturday night at the
    Earl of Marischall's house; he had a very good and safe passage,
    and has given them fair slip, for I supose they did never rekon on
    his comeing the near way. I hear there is a great resort to him,
    since he landed, of all ranks.

    "The Duke of Athol[125] sent a pairty of two hundered of his men
    yesterday morning, under the comand of his brother Lord Edward, and
    his son Lord James, to Dunkeld to have surprised our garison there,
    which consisted of about one hundred men of the clans; but it seems
    the garison had notice of it some hours before they came, and gave
    them such a warm reception, that they retired in great haste with
    the loss of two men killed by our out-sentinels and five or sixe
    wounded. I belive his Grace's men had no good will to the work, and
    were brought their against their inclinations. They had nott then
    gott the account there of the King's arival, els I belive they had
    not atempted it. I wish our garison were now at Brunt Island, but I
    hope that loss soon be made up. I hope you'll omitte no occasion in
    letting us hear from you. Adieu.

    "The above is writte to H. S.,[126] but it will serve you both to
    forward it to him. I got the money and the cloas safe. I expect to
    hear from you soon. I have yours of the twenty-third. I have sent
    over a paket to be dispersed, and some ane other way. Your letters
    are longer be the way than they need so order it. Fall on some
    proper way to gett the enclosed delivered by some person, but be not
    seen in it yourself. If ane answer can be got, send it."

The Chevalier slept in the town of Peterhead on the first night of his landing, but on the
second he was received at Newburgh, a seat of the Earl Marischal; and the adherents who welcomed
him as their Prince, had there an opportunity of forming a judgment of one whom they had hitherto
known only by the flattering representations of those who had visited the young adventurer,
at his little Court in Lorraine.

In person, James is reported by the Master of Sinclair to have been "tall and thin, seeming
to incline to be lean rather than to fill as he grows in years." His countenance, to judge
by the most authentic portraits[127] of this Prince, had none of the meditative character of
that of Charles the First, whom the Chevalier was popularly said to resemble: neither had it
the sweetness which is expressed by every feature of that unhappy Monarch, nor had his countenance
the pensiveness which wins upon the beholder who gazes upon the portraits of Charles. The eyes
of the Chevalier were light-hazel, his face was pale and long, and in the fullness of the lips
he resembled his mother, Mary of Modena. To this physiognomy, on which it is said a smile was
rarely seen to play, were added, according to the account of a contemporary, from whose narrative
we will borrow a further description, "a speech grave, and not very clearly expressive of his
thoughts, nor over much to the purpose; his words were few, and his behaviour and temper seemed
always composed.

"What he was in his diversions we know not; here was no room for such things. It was no time
for mirth. Neither can I say I ever saw him smile. Those who speak so positively of his being
like King James the Seventh, must excuse me for saying that it seems to say they either never
saw this person or never saw King James the Seventh; and yet I must not conceal that when we
saw the man whom they called our King, we found ourselves not at all animated by his presence;
and if he was disappointed in us, we were tenfold more so in him. We saw nothing in him that
looked like spirit. He never appeared with cheerfulness and vigour to animate us: our men began
to despise him; some asked if he could speak. His countenance looked extremely heavy. He cared
not to come abroad among us soldiers, or to see us handle our arms to do our exercise. Some
said the circumstances he found us in dejected him. I am sure the figure he made dejected us;
and had he sent us but five thousand men of good troops, and never himself come, we had done
other things than we have done. At the approach of that crisis when he was to defend his pretensions,
and either lose his life or gain a Crown, I think, as his affairs were situated, no man can
say that his appearing grave and composed was a token of his want of thought, but rather of
a significant anxiety grounded on the prospect of his inevitable ruin, which he could not be
so void of sense as not to see plainly before him,--at least, when he came to see how inconsistent
his measures were--how unsteady the resolution of his guides, and how impossible it was to
make them agree with one another."[128]

       *       *       *       *       *

It was at Glammis Castle, the seat of the Earl of Strathmore, that the Earl of Mar drew up
a flattering account of the Prince, which he caused to be printed and diligently circulated.[129]
The whole is here given, as affording an insight into all that was going on:--

    "I have had three of yours since I left Perth, but I wonder I have
    no letters from London. I mett the King at Fetteresso on Tuesday
    se'night, where we stayed til Friday; from thence we came to
    Brichan, then to Kinnaird, and yesterday here. The King designed to
    have gone to Dundee to-day, but ther's such a fall of snow that he
    is forced to put it off til to-morrow, if it be practicable then;
    and from thence he designs to go to Scoon. There was no haste in his
    being there sooner, for nothing can be done in this season, else he
    had not been so long by the way. People every where as we have come
    along, are excessively fond to see him and express that duty they
    ought. Without any compliment to him, and to do him nothing but
    justice, set aside his being a prince, he is realie the finest
    gentelman I ever knew. He has a very good presence, and resembles
    King Charles a great dele. His presence, tho', is not the best of
    him; he has fine partes, and dispatches all his buissiness himself
    with the greatest exactness. I never saw any body write so finely.
    He is afable to a great degree w^{t}out looseing that majestie that
    he ought to have, and has the sweetest temper in the world. In a
    word, he is even fitted to make us a happie people, were his subjects
    worthie of him. To have him peaceablie settled on his thron is what
    these kingdomes do not deserve; but he deserves it so much, that I
    hope ther's a good fate attending him. I am sure ther's nothing
    wanting to make the rest of his subjects as fond of him as we are,
    but thus knowing as we now have the happiness to do. And it will be
    odd if his presence amongst us, after his running so many hazards to
    compass it, do not turn the hearts of even the most obstinat. It is
    not fit to tel all the particulars, but I assure you, since he
    arived, he has left nothing undone that well could be to gain every
    body, and I hope God will touch their hearts. His Majestie is very
    sensible of the service you have done him and he desires you may
    continue, for which he hopes he may yet be able to reward you. He
    wrote to France as soon's he landed, and sent it with the shipe he
    came in, which we hope got safe there long ago. It is not often that
    we can have opportunity of writeing or sending there, and the Queen
    and others will be mighty impatient to hear frequently; therefore
    his Majestie expects you should write there frequently, and give
    them all the accounts you can. I have reason to hope we shall very
    quickly see a new face on affairs abroad in the King's favour, which
    is all I dare comitt to paper. The Government will nott certainly
    send all the strength against us they can, but e'er long, perhaps,
    they may have ocasion for their troups else where.

    "I belive one wou'd speak to you lately of a kind of comisary of the
    Dutch, that may be spoke to, which by no means ought to be
    neglected, and he being on your side the watter, it is left to you,
    and you must not stick at offering such a reward as he himself can
    desire, which I shall see made good: there should no time be lost in
    this, and I'll be glad to know soon if there be any hopes that way.

    "Tho' the way of sending letters betwixt us be now much more
    difficult than ever, yet you must write as often as you possiblie
    can get any probable way of sending of them safe; and pray give us
    all the accounts you can. I have ordred some of the King's
    declarations for England to be sent you, and when they come to your
    hands you wou'd get some way of sending them to London and other
    places of England. Send the enclosed for my wife under a cover, as
    you used to do; by my not hearing from her, I am affraid my last has
    not come to her hands. When any comes from her for me, pray take
    care that you send them a safe way. We long to know what effects the
    news of the King's arivall had at London, Stirling, and Edinburgh. I
    suppose you still hear from Kate Bruce. I do not understand what she
    means by going to the country, which she mentions in her letter to
    you.

    "I see in one of the prints that Lawrance is come off from London,
    so by this time he must certainly be in Scotland; pray let me know
    what you hear of him. If he be come, I suppose he'll understand
    himself so well as our prisoner, that he will immediately give
    himself up to us again.

    "The King wears paper caps under his wige, which I know you also do;
    they cannot be had at Perth, so I wish you could send some on, for
    his own are near out.

    "We are in want of paper for printing; is there no way to send us
    some from your side?

    "Pray, send my wife one of the Scots and one of the English
    declarations at the same time my letter goes, but under another
    cover. Adieu.

    "Since writeing I have yours of the thirty-first and first, for
    which I thank you, and am just going to read them to my master."

Little dependance can be placed on the entire accuracy of either of these varying descriptions,--the
one penned by a disappointed, and perhaps wavering, adherent, the other by a man whose personal
interests were irrevocably involved with those of James. We must trust to other sources to
enable us to form a due estimate of the merits of this ill-starred Prince.

James Stuart was at this time in his twenty-seventh year. From his very cradle he had been,
as it might seem to the superstitious, marked by fate for a destiny peculiarly severe. His
real birth was long disputed, without the shadow of a reason, except what was suggested by
a base court intrigue. This slur upon his legitimacy, which was afterwards virtually wiped
away by the British Parliament, was nevertheless the greatest obstacle to his accession, there
being nothing so difficult to obliterate as a popular impression of that nature.

Educated within the narrow precincts of the exiled court, James owed the good that was within
him to a disposition naturally humane, placable, and just, as well as to the communion with
a mother, the fidelity of whose attachment to her exiled consort bespoke a finer quality of
mind than that which Nature had bestowed on the object of her devotion. By this mother James
must doubtless have been embued with a desire for recovering those dominions and that power
for which Mary of Modena, like Henrietta Maria, sighed in vain, as the inheritance of her son;
but the stimulus was applied to a disposition with which a private life was far more consonant
than the cares of sovereignty. Rising as he does to respectability, when we contrast the good
nature and mild good sense of the Chevalier with the bigotry of James the Second,--or view
his career, blameless with some exceptions, in contrast with the licentiousness of Charles
the Second, there were still no high hopes to be entertained of the young Prince; his character
had little energy, and consequently little interest: he was affable, just, free from bigotry
although firm in his faith, and capable of great application to business; but he wanted ardour.
From his negative qualities, the pitying world were disposed to judge him favourably. "He began
the world," says Lockhart, "with the general esteem of mankind; but he sank year by year in
public estimation: his Court subsequently displayed the worst features of the Stuart propensities,
an intense love of prerogative; and his mind, never strong, became weaker and weaker under
the dominion of favourites."

The ship in which James had sailed returned to France immediately to give the news of his safe
arrival, and at the same time Lieutenant Cameron, the son of Cameron of Lochiel, was dispatched
to Perth to apprise the Earl of Mar of the event. Upon the spur of the moment the Earl, accompanied
by the Earl Marischal and General Hamilton, and attended by twenty or thirty persons of quality,
on horseback, set out with a guard of horse to attend him whom they considered as their rightful
Sovereign. The cavalcade met the Chevalier at Fetteresso, the principal seat of the Earl Marischal.
"Here," says Reay, "the Chevalier dressed, and discovered himself," and they all kissed his
hand, and owned him as their King, causing him to be proclaimed at the gates of the house.
At Fetteresso the Prince was detained during some days by that inconvenient malady the ague.
Meantime, the declaration which he had prepared, and which was dated from Commercy, was disseminated,
and was dropped in some loyal towns by his adherents in the night-time, there being danger
in promulgating it openly.[130]

On the second of January, 1715-16, the Chevalier proceeded to Brechin, and thence to Kinnaird;
and on Thursday to Glammis Castle, the seat of the Earl of Strathmore. On the sixth of January
he made his public entry into Dundee on horseback, at an early hour. Three hundred followers
attended him, and the Earl of Mar rode on his right hand, the Earl Marischal on his left. At
the suggestion of his friends, the Prince shewed himself in the market-place of Dundee for
nearly an hour and a half, the people kissing his hands. The following extract from a letter
among the Mar Papers affords a more minute and graphic account of the Chevalier's demeanour
than is to be found in the usual histories of the day.

    "I hear the Pretender went this day from Glams to Dundee, and comes
    to Scoon to-morrow; and I am shourly informed that your old friend
    Willie Callender went to Glams on Wensday and kissed the Pretender's
    hand, of whom he makes great speeches, and says he is one of the
    finest gentlemen ever he saw in his life. Its weell that his landing
    is keept up from the army, for he has gained so much the good will
    of all ranks of people in this country that have seen him, that if
    it was made publick it's thought it might have ill effects among
    them. He is very affable and oblidging to all, and great crowds of
    the common people flok to him. When he toke horse this morning from
    Glams, there was about a thousand country people at the gate, who
    they say, gave him many blessings: he has tuched several of the
    ivil, as he did some this morning. He is of a very pleasant temper,
    and has intirely gained the hearts of all thro' the places he has
    passed. He aplyes himself very closs to business, and they say might
    very weell be a Secretarie of State. He has declared Lord Marischall
    one of his bedchamber. The toun of Aberdeen made him ane address, as
    did all the other touns as he passed; and I hear he is, at the
    request of the episcopal clergy in this country, to apoint a day of
    thanksgiving for his safe arival, and likeways a proclamation, to
    which will be referred his declaration, with something new, which
    shall be sent to you with first ocasion. There came a battalion of
    Bredalbins men to Perth on Tuesday, and ane other of Sir Donald
    M^{c}Donalds this day; and they are now daily getting in more men.

    "This is all the intelligence I can give you, and I hope to hear
    from you again soon, and lett me know what certain number are now
    come over, and what more designed. Deliver the enclosed and tell him
    these papers could not be gott him just now, but shall per next. I
    ame affraid poor W. Maxewell wild be dead before you get this, of a
    fever and a flux: he is given over this two days. Write soon."

After the display at Dundee, the Chevalier rode to the house of Stewart of Grandutly, in the
neighbourhood, where he dined and passed the day. On the following day he proceeded along the
Carse of Gowrie to Castle Lyon, a seat of the Earl of Strathmore, where he dined, and went
thence to Fingask, the seat of Sir David Threipland. On the eighth of January he took up his
abode in the royal palace of Scoon, where he intended to remain until after his coronation.

