PREFACE TO MAJOR BARBARA: FIRST AID TO CRITICS

BERNARD SHAW

N.B. The Euripidean verses in the second act of Major Barbara are not by me, or even directly
by Euripides. They are by Professor Gilbert Murray, whose English version of The Baccha; came
into our dramatic literature with all the impulsive power of an original work shortly before
Major Barbara was begun. The play, indeed, stands indebted to him in more ways than one.

G. B. S.

Before dealing with the deeper aspects of Major Barbara, let me, for the credit of English
literature, make a protest against an unpatriotic habit into which many of my critics have
fallen. Whenever my view strikes them as being at all outside the range of, say, an ordinary
suburban churchwarden, they conclude that I am echoing Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Ibsen, Strindberg,
Tolstoy, or some other heresiarch in northern or eastern Europe.

I confess there is something flattering in this simple faith in my accomplishment as a linguist
and my erudition as a philosopher. But I cannot tolerate the assumption that life and literature
is so poor in these islands that we must go abroad for all dramatic material that is not common
and all ideas that are not superficial. I therefore venture to put my critics in possession
of certain facts concerning my contact with modern ideas.

About half a century ago, an Irish novelist, Charles Lever, wrote a story entitled A Day's
Ride: A Life's Romance. It was published by Charles Dickens in Household Words, and proved
so strange to the public taste that Dickens pressed Lever to make short work of it. I read
scraps of this novel when I was a child; and it made an enduring impression on me. The hero
was a very romantic hero, trying to live bravely, chivalrously, and powerfully by dint of mere
romance-fed imagination, without courage, without means, without knowledge, without skill,
without anything real except his bodily appetites. Even in my childhood I found in this poor
devil's unsuccessful encounters with the facts of life, a poignant quality that romantic fiction
lacked. The book, in spite of its first failure, is not dead: I saw its title the other day
in the catalogue of Tauchnitz.

Now why is it that when I also deal in the tragi-comic irony of the conflict between real life
and the romantic imagination, no critic ever affiliates me to my countryman and immediate forerunner,
Charles Lever, whilst they confidently derive me from a Norwegian author of whose language
I do not know three words, and of whom I knew nothing until years after the Shavian Anschauung
was already unequivocally declared in books full of what came, ten years later, to be perfunctorily
labelled Ibsenism. I was not Ibsenist even at second hand; for Lever, though he may have read
Henri Beyle, alias Stendhal, certainly never read Ibsen. Of the books that made Lever popular,
such as Charles O'Malley and Harry Lorrequer, I know nothing but the names and some of the
illustrations. But the story of the day's ride and life's romance of Potts (claiming alliance
with Pozzo di Borgo) caught me and fascinated me as something strange and significant, though
I already knew all about Alnaschar and Don Quixote and Simon Tappertit and many another romantic
hero mocked by reality. From the plays of Aristophanes to the tales of Stevenson that mockery
has been made familiar to all who are properly saturated with letters.

