The weary day passed. The emigrants were consoled by free meals; and the delicate baby throve
on the Swede's ravished milk. For the rest, the people in the various trains made rapid acquaintance
with each other; bridge went merrily in more than one car, and the general inconvenience was
borne with much philosophy, even by Gaddesden. At last, when darkness had long fallen, the
train to which the private car was attached moved slowly forward amid cheers of the bystanders.

Elizabeth and her brother were on the observation platform, with the Canadian, whom with some
difficulty they had persuaded to share their dinner.

"I told you"--said Anderson--"that you would be passed over first." He pointed to two other
trains in front that had been shunted to make room for them.

Elizabeth turned to him a little proudly.

"But I should like to say--it's not for our own sakes--not in the least!--it is for my father,
that they are so polite to us."

"I know--of course I know!" was the quick response. "I have been talking to some of our staff,"
he went on, smiling. "They would do anything for you. Perhaps you don't understand. You are
the guests of the railway. And I too belong to the railway. I am a very humble person, but--"

"You also would do anything for us?" asked Elizabeth, with her soft laugh. "How kind you all are!"

She looked charming as she said it--her face and head lit up by the line of flaring lights
through which they were slowly passing. The line was crowded with dark-faced navvies, watching
the passage of the train as it crept forward.

One of the officials in command leapt up on the platform of the car, and introduced himself.
He was worn out with the day's labour, but triumphant. "It's all right now--but, my word! the
stuff we've thrown in!--"

He and Anderson began some rapid technical talk. Slowly, they passed over the quicksand which
in the morning had engulfed half a train; amid the flare of torches, and the murmur of strange
speech, from the Galician and Italian labourers, who rested on their picks and stared and laughed,
as they went safely by.

"How I love adventures!" cried Elizabeth, clasping her hands.

"Even little ones?" said the Canadian, smiling. But this time she was not conscious of any
note of irony in his manner, rather of a kind protectingness--more pronounced, perhaps, than
it would have been in an Englishman, at the same stage of acquaintance. But Elizabeth liked
it; she liked, too, the fine bare head that the torchlight revealed; and the general impression
of varied life that the man's personality produced upon her. Her sympathies, her imagination
were all trembling towards the Canadians, no less than towards their country.

CHAPTER III

"Mr. Delaine, sir?"

The gentleman so addressed turned to see the substantial form of Simpson at his elbow. They
were both standing in the spacious hall of the C.P.R. Hotel adjoining the station at Winnipeg.

"Her ladyship, sir, asked me to tell you she would be down directly. And would you please wait
for her, and take her to see the place where the emigrants come. She doesn't think Mr. Gaddesden
will be down till luncheon-time."

Arthur Delaine thanked the speaker for her information, and then sat down in a comfortable
corner, Times in hand, to wait for Lady Merton.

She and her brother had arrived, he understood, in the early hours at Winnipeg, after the agitations
and perils of the sink-hole. Philip had gone at once to bed and to slumber. Lady Merton would
soon, it seemed, be ready for anything that Winnipeg might have to show her.

The new-comer had time, however, to realise and enjoy a pleasant expectancy before she appeared.
He was apparently occupied with the Times, but in reality he was very conscious all the time
of his own affairs and of a certain crisis to which, in his own belief, he had now brought
them. In the first place, he could not get over his astonishment at finding himself where he
was. The very aspect of the Winnipeg hotel, as he looked curiously round it, seemed to prove
to him both the seriousness of certain plans and intentions of his own, and the unusual decision
with which he had been pursuing them.

For undoubtedly, of his own accord, and for mere travellers' reasons, he would not at this
moment be travelling in Canada. The old world was enough for him; and neither in the States
nor in Canada had he so far seen anything which would of itself have drawn him away from his
Cumberland house, his classical library, his pets, his friends and correspondents, his old
servants and all the other items in a comely and dignified way of life.

He was just forty and unmarried, a man of old family, easy disposition, and classical tastes.
He had been for a time Member of Parliament for one of the old Universities, and he was now
engaged on a verse translation of certain books of the Odyssey. That this particular labour
had been undertaken before did not trouble him. It was in fact his delight to feel himself
a link in the chain of tradition--at once the successor and progenitor of scholars. Not that
his scholarship was anything illustrious or profound. Neither as poet nor Hellenist would he
ever leave any great mark behind him; but where other men talk of "the household of faith,"
he might have talked rather of "the household of letters," and would have seen himself as a
warm and familiar sitter by its hearth. A new edition of some favourite classic; his weekly
Athenæum; occasional correspondence with a French or Italian scholar--(he did not read German,
and disliked the race)--these were his pleasures. For the rest he was the landlord of a considerable
estate, as much of a sportsman as his position required, and his Conservative politics did
not include any sympathy for the more revolutionary doctrines--economic or social--which seemed
to him to be corrupting his party. In his youth, before the death of an elder brother, he had
been trained as a doctor, and had spent some time in a London hospital. In no case would he
ever have practised. Before his training was over he had revolted against the profession, and
against the "ugliness," as it seemed to him, of the matters and topics with which a doctor
must perforce be connected. His elder brother's death, which, however, he sincerely regretted,
had in truth solved many difficulties.

In person he was moderately tall, with dark grizzled hair, agreeable features and a moustache.
Among his aristocratic relations whom he met in London, the men thought him a little dishevelled
and old-fashioned; the women pronounced him interesting and "a dear." His manners were generally
admired, except by captious persons who held that such a fact was of itself enough to condemn
them; and he was welcome in many English and some foreign circles. For he travelled every spring,
and was well acquainted with the famous places of Europe. It need only be added that he had
a somewhat severe taste in music, and could render both Bach and Handel on the piano with success.

His property was only some six miles distant from Martindale Park, the Gaddesdens' home. During
the preceding winter he had become a frequent visitor at Martindale, while Elizabeth Merton
was staying with her mother and brother, and a little ripple of talk had begun to flow through
the district. Delaine, very fastidious where personal dignity was concerned, could not make
up his mind either to be watched or laughed at. He would have liked to woo--always supposing
that wooing there was to be--with a maximum of dignity and privacy, surrounded by a friendly
but not a forcing atmosphere. But Elizabeth Merton was a great favourite in her own neighbourhood,
and people became impatient. Was it to be a marriage or was it not?

As soon as he felt this enquiry in the air, Mr. Delaine went abroad--abruptly--about a month
before Elizabeth and her brother started for Canada. It was said that he had gone to Italy;
but some few persons knew that it was his intention to start from Genoa for the United States,
in order that he might attend a celebration at Harvard University in honour of a famous French
Hellenist, who had covered himself with glory in Delaine's eyes by identifying a number of
real sites with places mentioned in the Odyssey. Nobody, however, knew but himself, that, when
that was done, he meant to join the brother and sister on part of their Canadian journey, and
that he hoped thereby to become better acquainted with Elizabeth Merton than was possible--for
a man at least of his sensitiveness--under the eyes of an inquisitive neighbourhood.

For this step Lady Merton's consent was of course necessary. He had accordingly written from
Boston to ask if it would be agreeable to them that he should go with them through the Rockies.
The proposal was most natural. The Delaines and Gaddesdens had been friends for many years,
and Arthur Delaine enjoyed a special fame as a travelling companion--easy, accomplished and
well-informed.

Nevertheless, he waited at Boston in some anxiety for Elizabeth's answer. When it came, it
was all cordiality. By all means let him go with them to the Rockies. They could not unfortunately
offer him sleeping room in the car. But by day Lady Merton hoped he would be their guest, and
share all their facilities and splendours. "I shall be so glad of a companion for Philip, who
is rapidly getting strong enough to give me a great deal of trouble."

That was how she put it--how she must put it, of course. He perfectly understood her.

And now here he was, sitting in the C.P.R. Hotel at Winnipeg, at a time of year when he was
generally in Paris or Rome, investigating the latest Greek acquisitions of the Louvre, or the
last excavation in the Forum; picnicking in the Campagna; making expeditions to Assisi or Subiaco;
and in the evenings frequenting the drawing-rooms of ministers and ambassadors.

He looked up presently from the Times, and at the street outside; the new and raw street, with
its large commercial buildings of the American type, its tramcars and crowded sidewalks. The
muddy roadway, the gaps and irregularities in the street façade, the windows of a great store
opposite, displeased his eye. The whole scene seemed to him to have no atmosphere. As far as
he was concerned, it said nothing, it touched nothing.

What was it he was to be taken to see? Emigration offices? He resigned himself, with a smile.
The prospect made him all the more pleasantly conscious that one feeling, and one feeling only,
could possibly have brought him here.

"Ah! there you are."

A light figure hurried toward him, and he rose in haste.

But Lady Merton was intercepted midway by a tall man, quite unknown to Delaine.

"I have arranged everything for three o'clock," said the interloper. "You are sure that will
suit you?"

"Perfectly! And the guests?"

"Half a dozen, about, are coming." George Anderson ran through the list, and Elizabeth laughed
merrily, while extending her hand to Delaine.

"How amusing! A party--and I don't know a soul in Winnipeg. Arrived this morning--and going
this evening! So glad to see you, Mr. Arthur. You are coming, of course?"

"Where?" said Delaine, bewildered.

"To my tea, this afternoon. Mr. Anderson--Mr. Delaine. Mr. Anderson has most kindly arranged
a perfectly delightful party!--in our car this afternoon. We are to go and see a great farm
belonging to some friend of his, about twenty miles out--prize cattle and horses--that kind
of thing. Isn't it good of him?"

"Charming!" murmured Delaine. "Charming!" His gaze ran over the figure of the Canadian.

