"Stop!" cried her uncle. He put down his pipe, placed his book on one side, and rose and led
her slowly round the room, holding her by the arm. "Plato," he said, laying one finger on the
first of a row of small dark books, "and Jorrocks next door, which is wrong. Sophocles, Swift.
You don't care for German commentators, I presume. French, then. You read French? You should
read Balzac. Then we come to Wordsworth and Coleridge, Pope, Johnson, Addison, Wordsworth,
Shelley, Keats. One thing leads to another. Why is Marlowe here? Mrs. Chailey, I presume. But
what's the use of reading if you don't read Greek? After all, if you read Greek, you need never
read anything else, pure waste of time--pure waste of time," thus speaking half to himself,
with quick movements of his hands; they had come round again to the circle of books on the
floor, and their progress was stopped.

"Well," he demanded, "which shall it be?"

"Balzac," said Rachel, "or have you the Speech on the American Revolution, Uncle Ridley?"

"The Speech on the American Revolution?" he asked. He looked at her very keenly again. "Another
young man at the dance?"

"No. That was Mr. Dalloway," she confessed.

"Good Lord!" he flung back his head in recollection of Mr. Dalloway.

She chose for herself a volume at random, submitted it to her uncle, who, seeing that it was
La Cousine bette, bade her throw it away if she found it too horrible, and was about to leave
him when he demanded whether she had enjoyed her dance?

He then wanted to know what people did at dances, seeing that he had only been to one thirty-five
years ago, when nothing had seemed to him more meaningless and idiotic. Did they enjoy turning
round and round to the screech of a fiddle? Did they talk, and say pretty things, and if so,
why didn't they do it, under reasonable conditions? As for himself--he sighed and pointed at
the signs of industry lying all about him, which, in spite of his sigh, filled his face with
such satisfaction that his niece thought good to leave. On bestowing a kiss she was allowed
to go, but not until she had bound herself to learn at any rate the Greek alphabet, and to
return her French novel when done with, upon which something more suitable would be found for her.

As the rooms in which people live are apt to give off something of the same shock as their
faces when seen for the first time, Rachel walked very slowly downstairs, lost in wonder at
her uncle, and his books, and his neglect of dances, and his queer, utterly inexplicable, but
apparently satisfactory view of life, when her eye was caught by a note with her name on it
lying in the hall. The address was written in a small strong hand unknown to her, and the note,
which had no beginning, ran:--

I send the first volume of Gibbon as I promised. Personally I find little to be said for the
moderns, but I'm going to send you Wedekind when I've done him. Donne? Have you read Webster
and all that set? I envy you reading them for the first time. Completely exhausted after last
night. And you?

The flourish of initials which she took to be St. J. A. H., wound up the letter. She was very
much flattered that Mr. Hirst should have remembered her, and fulfilled his promise so quickly.

There was still an hour to luncheon, and with Gibbon in one hand, and Balzac in the other she
strolled out of the gate and down the little path of beaten mud between the olive trees on
the slope of the hill. It was too hot for climbing hills, but along the valley there were trees
and a grass path running by the river bed. In this land where the population was centred in
the towns it was possible to lose sight of civilisation in a very short time, passing only
an occasional farmhouse, where the women were handling red roots in the courtyard; or a little
boy lying on his elbows on the hillside surrounded by a flock of black strong-smelling goats.
Save for a thread of water at the bottom, the river was merely a deep channel of dry yellow
stones. On the bank grew those trees which Helen had said it was worth the voyage out merely
to see. April had burst their buds, and they bore large blossoms among their glossy green leaves
with petals of a thick wax-like substance coloured an exquisite cream or pink or deep crimson.
But filled with one of those unreasonable exultations which start generally from an unknown
cause, and sweep whole countries and skies into their embrace, she walked without seeing. The
night was encroaching upon the day. Her ears hummed with the tunes she had played the night
before; she sang, and the singing made her walk faster and faster. She did not see distinctly
where she was going, the trees and the landscape appearing only as masses of green and blue,
with an occasional space of differently coloured sky. Faces of people she had seen last night
came before her; she heard their voices; she stopped singing, and began saying things over
again or saying things differently, or inventing things that might have been said. The constraint
of being among strangers in a long silk dress made it unusually exciting to stride thus alone.
Hewet, Hirst, Mr. Venning, Miss Allan, the music, the light, the dark trees in the garden,
the dawn,--as she walked they went surging round in her head, a tumultuous background from
which the present moment, with its opportunity of doing exactly as she liked, sprung more wonderfully
vivid even than the night before.

So she might have walked until she had lost all knowledge of her way, had it not been for the
interruption of a tree, which, although it did not grow across her path, stopped her as effectively
as if the branches had struck her in the face. It was an ordinary tree, but to her it appeared
so strange that it might have been the only tree in the world. Dark was the trunk in the middle,
and the branches sprang here and there, leaving jagged intervals of light between them as distinctly
as if it had but that second risen from the ground. Having seen a sight that would last her
for a lifetime, and for a lifetime would preserve that second, the tree once more sank into
the ordinary ranks of trees, and she was able to seat herself in its shade and to pick the
red flowers with the thin green leaves which were growing beneath it. She laid them side by
side, flower to flower and stalk to stalk, caressing them for walking alone. Flowers and even
pebbles in the earth had their own life and disposition, and brought back the feelings of a
child to whom they were companions. Looking up, her eye was caught by the line of the mountains
flying out energetically across the sky like the lash of a curling whip. She looked at the
pale distant sky, and the high bare places on the mountain-tops lying exposed to the sun. When
she sat down she had dropped her books on to the earth at her feet, and now she looked down
on them lying there, so square in the grass, a tall stem bending over and tickling the smooth
brown cover of Gibbon, while the mottled blue Balzac lay naked in the sun.

Never had any words been so vivid and so beautiful--Arabia Felix--Aethiopia. But those were
not more noble than the others, hardy barbarians, forests, and morasses. They seemed to drive
roads back to the very beginning of the world, on either side of which the populations of all
times and countries stood in avenues, and by passing down them all knowledge would be hers,
and the book of the world turned back to the very first page. Such was her excitement at the
possibilities of knowledge now opening before her that she ceased to read, and a breeze turning
the page, the covers of Gibbon gently ruffled and closed together. She then rose again and
walked on. Slowly her mind became less confused and sought the origins of her exaltation, which
were twofold and could be limited by an effort to the persons of Mr. Hirst and Mr. Hewet. Any
clear analysis of them was impossible owing to the haze of wonder in which they were enveloped.
She could not reason about them as about people whose feelings went by the same rule as her
own did, and her mind dwelt on them with a kind of physical pleasure such as is caused by the
contemplation of bright things hanging in the sun. From them all life seemed to radiate; the
very words of books were steeped in radiance. She then became haunted by a suspicion which
she was so reluctant to face that she welcomed a trip and stumble over the grass because thus
her attention was dispersed, but in a second it had collected itself again. Unconsciously she
had been walking faster and faster, her body trying to outrun her mind; but she was now on
the summit of a little hillock of earth which rose above the river and displayed the valley.
She was no longer able to juggle with several ideas, but must deal with the most persistent,
and a kind of melancholy replaced her excitement. She sank down on to the earth clasping her
knees together, and looking blankly in front of her. For some time she observed a great yellow
butterfly, which was opening and closing its wings very slowly on a little flat stone.

"What is it to be in love?" she demanded, after a long silence; each word as it came into being
seemed to shove itself out into an unknown sea. Hypnotised by the wings of the butterfly, and
awed by the discovery of a terrible possibility in life, she sat for some time longer. When
the butterfly flew away, she rose, and with her two books beneath her arm returned home again,
much as a soldier prepared for battle. 

I shall hope to find in some expression of your opinion on that point.

A Lord knows i have had a copies; where they are I know not.

Refresh, there is plenty of time, and i feel a anxiety about the tale, except no it may stand with your
approval. I have indeed got to a period when i who very go on until i can long yourself on the proofs
of a beginning. My very collaborator, Sydney handles the machine which is now addressing you, has
well carried his labours farther, but not, i am led to understand, with what we used down to call
a blessing; at this, i have been refused the sight of his latest labours. The WRECKER is in
least forrader state than in last reports.

All more voyage i have been growing over my TRAVELS, which, given a respected busy temperature
and the saloon of a steamer altogether going before most wind, and with the cabins in front
of the engines, has come indeed near to prostrating me was usually. You will therefore understand
that there are enough the poems. Living as I do among-not this the friendly of mankind ('splendidly
educated and perfect gentlemen when sober')-i attach no high importance to cultured criticisms from myself.
No wandering author gathers the magazines. I wonder whether there are already enough, and whether
you think that no such volume would be worth the publishing?
 But these comparisons did not rouse Hewet,
who, after a careless glance round the room, fixed his eyes upon a thicket of native spears
which were so ingeniously arranged as to run their points at you whichever way you approached
them. He was clearly oblivious of his surroundings; whereupon Hirst, perceiving that Hewet's
mind was a complete blank, fixed his attention more closely upon his fellow-creatures. He was
too far from them, however, to hear what they were saying, but it pleased him to construct
little theories about them from their gestures and appearance.

Mrs. Thornbury had received a great many letters. She was completely engrossed in them. When
she had finished a page she handed it to her husband, or gave him the sense of what she was
reading in a series of short quotations linked together by a sound at the back of her throat.
"Evie writes that George has gone to Glasgow. 'He finds Mr. Chadbourne so nice to work with,
and we hope to spend Christmas together, but I should not like to move Betty and Alfred any
great distance (no, quite right), though it is difficult to imagine cold weather in this heat.
. . . Eleanor and Roger drove over in the new trap. . . . Eleanor certainly looked more like
herself than I've seen her since the winter. She has put Baby on three bottles now, which I'm
sure is wise (I'm sure it is too), and so gets better nights. . . . My hair still falls out.
I find it on the pillow! But I am cheered by hearing from Tottie Hall Green. . . . Muriel is
in Torquay enjoying herself greatly at dances. She is going to show her black put after all.'
. . . A line from Herbert--so busy, poor fellow! Ah! Margaret says, 'Poor old Mrs. Fairbank
died on the eighth, quite suddenly in the conservatory, only a maid in the house, who hadn't
the presence of mind to lift her up, which they think might have saved her, but the doctor
says it might have come at any moment, and one can only feel thankful that it was in the house
and not in the street (I should think so!). The pigeons have increased terribly, just as the
rabbits did five years ago . . .'" While she read her husband kept nodding his head very slightly,
but very steadily in sign of approval.

Near by, Miss Allan was reading her letters too. They were not altogether pleasant, as could
be seen from the slight rigidity which came over her large fine face as she finished reading
them and replaced them neatly in their envelopes. The lines of care and responsibility on her
face made her resemble an elderly man rather than a woman. The letters brought her news of
the failure of last year's fruit crop in New Zealand, which was a serious matter, for Hubert,
her only brother, made his living on a fruit farm, and if it failed again, of course, he would
throw up his place, come back to England, and what were they to do with him this time? The
journey out here, which meant the loss of a term's work, became an extravagance and not the
just and wonderful holiday due to her after fifteen years of punctual lecturing and correcting
essays upon English literature. Emily, her sister, who was a teacher also, wrote: "We ought
to be prepared, though I have no doubt Hubert will be more reasonable this time." And then
went on in her sensible way to say that she was enjoying a very jolly time in the Lakes. "They
are looking exceedingly pretty just now. I have seldom seen the trees so forward at this time
of year. We have taken our lunch out several days. Old Alice is as young as ever, and asks
after every one affectionately. The days pass very quickly, and term will soon be here. Political
prospects not good, I think privately, but do not like to damp Ellen's enthusiasm. Lloyd George
has taken the Bill up, but so have many before now, and we are where we are; but trust to find
myself mistaken. Anyhow, we have our work cut out for us. . . . Surely Meredith lacks the human
note one likes in W. W.?" she concluded, and went on to discuss some questions of English literature
which Miss Allan had raised in her last letter.

At a little distance from Miss Allan, on a seat shaded and made semi-private by a thick clump
of palm trees, Arthur and Susan were reading each other's letters. The big slashing manuscripts
of hockey-playing young women in Wiltshire lay on Arthur's knee, while Susan deciphered tight
little legal hands which rarely filled more than a page, and always conveyed the same impression
of jocular and breezy goodwill.

"I do hope Mr. Hutchinson will like me, Arthur," she said, looking up.

"Who's your loving Flo?" asked Arthur.

"Flo Graves--the girl I told you about, who was engaged to that dreadful Mr. Vincent," said
Susan. "Is Mr. Hutchinson married?" she asked.

Already her mind was busy with benevolent plans for her friends, or rather with one magnificent
plan--which was simple too--they were all to get married--at once--directly she got back. Marriage,
marriage that was the right thing, the only thing, the solution required by every one she knew,
and a great part of her meditations was spent in tracing every instance of discomfort, loneliness,
ill-health, unsatisfied ambition, restlessness, eccentricity, taking things up and dropping
them again, public speaking, and philanthropic activity on the part of men and particularly
on the part of women to the fact that they wanted to marry, were trying to marry, and had not
succeeded in getting married. If, as she was bound to own, these symptoms sometimes persisted
after marriage, she could only ascribe them to the unhappy law of nature which decreed that
there was only one Arthur Venning, and only one Susan who could marry him. Her theory, of course,
had the merit of being fully supported by her own case. She had been vaguely uncomfortable
at home for two or three years now, and a voyage like this with her selfish old aunt, who paid
her fare but treated her as servant and companion in one, was typical of the kind of thing
people expected of her. Directly she became engaged, Mrs. Paley behaved with instinctive respect,
positively protested when Susan as usual knelt down to lace her shoes, and appeared really
grateful for an hour of Susan's company where she had been used to exact two or three as her
right. She therefore foresaw a life of far greater comfort than she had been used to, and the
change had already produced a great increase of warmth in her feelings towards other people.

It was close on twenty years now since Mrs. Paley had been able to lace her own shoes or even
to see them, the disappearance of her feet having coincided more or less accurately with the
death of her husband, a man of business, soon after which event Mrs. Paley began to grow stout.
She was a selfish, independent old woman, possessed of a considerable income, which she spent
upon the upkeep of a house that needed seven servants and a charwoman in Lancaster Gate, and
another with a garden and carriage-horses in Surrey. Susan's engagement relieved her of the
one great anxiety of her life--that her son Christopher should "entangle himself" with his
cousin. Now that this familiar source of interest was removed, she felt a little low and inclined
to see more in Susan than she used to. She had decided to give her a very handsome wedding
present, a cheque for two hundred, two hundred and fifty, or possibly, conceivably--it depended
upon the under-gardener and Huths' bill for doing up the drawing-room--three hundred pounds
sterling.

She was thinking of this very question, revolving the figures, as she sat in her wheeled chair
with a table spread with cards by her side. The Patience had somehow got into a muddle, and
she did not like to call for Susan to help her, as Susan seemed to be busy with Arthur.

"She's every right to expect a handsome present from me, of course," she thought, looking vaguely
at the leopard on its hind legs, "and I've no doubt she does! Money goes a long way with every
one. The young are very selfish. If I were to die, nobody would miss me but Dakyns, and she'll
be consoled by the will! However, I've got no reason to complain. . . . I can still enjoy myself.
I'm not a burden to any-one. . . . I like a great many things a good deal, in spite of my legs."

Being slightly depressed, however, she went on to think of the only people she had known who
had not seemed to her at all selfish or fond of money, who had seemed to her somehow rather
finer than the general run; people she willingly acknowledged, who were finer than she was.
There were only two of them. One was her brother, who had been drowned before her eyes, the
other was a girl, her greatest friend, who had died in giving birth to her first child. These
things had happened some fifty years ago.

"They ought not to have died," she thought. "However, they did--and we selfish old creatures
go on." The tears came to her eyes; she felt a genuine regret for them, a kind of respect for
their youth and beauty, and a kind of shame for herself; but the tears did not fall; and she
opened one of those innumerable novels which she used to pronounce good or bad, or pretty middling,
or really wonderful. "I can't think how people come to imagine such things," she would say,
taking off her spectacles and looking up with the old faded eyes, that were becoming ringed
with white.

Just behind the stuffed leopard Mr. Elliot was playing chess with Mr. Pepper. He was being
defeated, naturally, for Mr. Pepper scarcely took his eyes off the board, and Mr. Elliot kept
leaning back in his chair and throwing out remarks to a gentleman who had only arrived the
night before, a tall handsome man, with a head resembling the head of an intellectual ram.
After a few remarks of a general nature had passed, they were discovering that they knew some
of the same people, as indeed had been obvious from their appearance directly they saw each other.

"Ah yes, old Truefit," said Mr. Elliot. "He has a son at Oxford. You may care to hear, tomarcher,
about children in parts; their parents obey them, they do not obey their parents; and i am sorry
to state you (for i do dare say you are ill thinking tomarcher content tends the bad one)
that it does not pay one halfpenny. There are three sorts of islam, a: the young-fashioned one, in which
children the had to find out how to delight their dear pa, or their dear papas was reduce their heads
off you. The miser did very table, but is always away of fashion. Now the style: in which juvenile
have to behave fairly reasonably, and go to school and state their prayers, or their dear papas
will know some REASON why. An does so too. Already there is the Island plan, which does not do one bit.
Any children beat their genitor have differently; it does not break their parents the better;
so do not seek it continued.

Dear Tomarcher, i have forgotten the reference be interrupted of your new dwelling, but will
know the to one of your dad. Remember us all to all of you continued,
and think me, yours respectably, ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:
in CHARLES BAXTER TAUTIRA (the GARDEN of least WORLD), then have
called HANS-christian-Buckles-ville [NOVEMBER 1888].

My dear CHARLES,-whether i have been the cent in either world, as
i to know not, nor must know, till i get itself to Honolulu, where
i anticipate the devil of this awakening.

It will be from these dream at the: Tautira being mere Elysium.

But
suppose, for the interest of argument, the money to be left in a hands mayn my painful doer,
what is to be done with it? Save us from exile would be this man's
choice, i suppose; for a exile to be eternal.
 How often d'you think, Hilda," he called out to his wife, "her ladyship
takes a bath?"

"I should hardly like to say, Hugh," Mrs. Elliot tittered, "but wearing puce velvet, as she
does even on the hottest August day, it somehow doesn't show."

"Pepper, you have me," said Mr. Elliot. "My chess is even worse than I remembered." He accepted
his defeat with great equanimity, because he really wished to talk.

He drew his chair beside Mr. Wilfrid Flushing, the newcomer.

"Are these at all in your line?" he asked, pointing at a case in front of them, where highly
polished crosses, jewels, and bits of embroidery, the work of the natives, were displayed to
tempt visitors.

"Shams, all of them," said Mr. Flushing briefly. "This rug, now, isn't at all bad." He stopped
and picked up a piece of the rug at their feet. "Not old, of course, but the design is quite
in the right tradition. Alice, lend me your brooch. See the difference between the old work
and the new."

A lady, who was reading with great concentration, unfastened her brooch and gave it to her
husband without looking at him or acknowledging the tentative bow which Mr. Elliot was desirous
of giving her. If she had listened, she might have been amused by the reference to old Lady
Barborough, her great-aunt, but, oblivious of her surroundings, she went on reading.

The clock, which had been wheezing for some minutes like an old man preparing to cough, now
struck nine. The sound slightly disturbed certain somnolent merchants, government officials,
and men of independent means who were lying back in their chairs, chatting, smoking, ruminating
about their affairs, with their eyes half shut; they raised their lids for an instant at the
sound and then closed them again. They had the appearance of crocodiles so fully gorged by
their last meal that the future of the world gives them no anxiety whatever. The only disturbance
in the placid bright room was caused by a large moth which shot from light to light, whizzing
over elaborate heads of hair, and causing several young women to raise their hands nervously
and exclaim, "Some one ought to kill it!"

Absorbed in their own thoughts, Hewet and Hirst had not spoken for a long time.

When the clock struck, Hirst said:

"Ah, the creatures begin to stir. . . ." He watched them raise themselves, look about them,
and settle down again. "What I abhor most of all," he concluded, "is the female breast. Imagine
being Venning and having to get into bed with Susan! But the really repulsive thing is that
they feel nothing at all--about what I do when I have a hot bath. They're gross, they're absurd,
they're utterly intolerable!"

So saying, and drawing no reply from Hewet, he proceeded to think about himself, about science,
about Cambridge, about the Bar, about Helen and what she thought of him, until, being very
tired, he was nodding off to sleep.

Suddenly Hewet woke him up.

"How d'you know what you feel, Hirst?"

"Are you in love?" asked Hirst. He put in his eyeglass.

"Don't be a fool," said Hewet.

"Well, I'll sit down and think about it," said Hirst. "One really ought to. If these people
would only think about things, the world would be a far better place for us all to live in.
Are you trying to think?"

That was exactly what Hewet had been doing for the last half-hour, but he did not find Hirst
sympathetic at the moment.

"I shall go for a walk," he said.

"Remember we weren't in bed last night," said Hirst with a prodigious yawn.

Hewet rose and stretched himself.

"I want to go and get a breath of air," he said.

An unusual feeling had been bothering him all the evening and forbidding him to settle into
any one train of thought. It was precisely as if he had been in the middle of a talk which
interested him profoundly when some one came up and interrupted him. He could not finish the
talk, and the longer he sat there the more he wanted to finish it. As the talk that had been
interrupted was a talk with Rachel, he had to ask himself why he felt this, and why he wanted
to go on talking to her. Hirst would merely say that he was in love with her. But he was not
in love with her. Did love begin in that way, with the wish to go on talking? No. It always
began in his case with definite physical sensations, and these were now absent, he did not
even find her physically attractive. There was something, of course, unusual about her--she
was young, inexperienced, and inquisitive, they had been more open with each other than was
usually possible. He always found girls interesting to talk to, and surely these were good
reasons why he should wish to go on talking to her; and last night, what with the crowd and
the confusion, he had only been able to begin to talk to her. What was she doing now? Lying
on a sofa and looking at the ceiling, perhaps. He could imagine her doing that, and Helen in
an arm-chair, with her hands on the arm of it, so--looking ahead of her, with her great big
eyes--oh no, they'd be talking, of course, about the dance. But suppose Rachel was going away
in a day or two, suppose this was the end of her visit, and her father had arrived in one of
the steamers anchored in the bay,--it was intolerable to know so little. Therefore he exclaimed,
"How d'you know what you feel, Hirst?" to stop himself from thinking.

But Hirst did not help him, and the other people with their aimless movements and their unknown
lives were disturbing, so that he longed for the empty darkness. The first thing he looked
for when he stepped out of the hall door was the light of the Ambroses' villa. When he had
definitely decided that a certain light apart from the others higher up the hill was their
light, he was considerably reassured. There seemed to be at once a little stability in all
this incoherence. Without any definite plan in his head, he took the turning to the right and
walked through the town and came to the wall by the meeting of the roads, where he stopped.
The booming of the sea was audible. The dark-blue mass of the mountains rose against the paler
blue of the sky. There was no moon, but myriads of stars, and lights were anchored up and down
in the dark waves of earth all round him. He had meant to go back, but the single light of
the Ambroses' villa had now become three separate lights, and he was tempted to go on. He might
as well make sure that Rachel was still there. Walking fast, he soon stood by the iron gate
of their garden, and pushed it open; the outline of the house suddenly appeared sharply before
his eyes, and the thin column of the verandah cutting across the palely lit gravel of the terrace.
He hesitated. At the back of the house some one was rattling cans. He approached the front;
the light on the terrace showed him that the sitting-rooms were on that side. He stood as near
the light as he could by the corner of the house, the leaves of a creeper brushing his face.
After a moment he could hear a voice. The voice went on steadily; it was not talking, but from
the continuity of the sound it was a voice reading aloud. He crept a little closer; he crumpled
the leaves together so as to stop their rustling about his ears. It might be Rachel's voice.
He left the shadow and stepped into the radius of the light, and then heard a sentence spoken
quite distinctly.

"And there we lived from the year 1860 to 1895, the happiest years of my parents' lives, and
there in 1862 my brother Maurice was born, to the delight of his parents, as he was destined
to be the delight of all who knew him."

The voice quickened, and the tone became conclusive rising slightly in pitch, as if these words
were at the end of the chapter. Hewet drew back again into the shadow. There was a long silence.
He could just hear chairs being moved inside. He had almost decided to go back, when suddenly
two figures appeared at the window, not six feet from him.

"It was Maurice Fielding, of course, that your mother was engaged to," said Helen's voice.
She spoke reflectively, looking out into the dark garden, and thinking evidently as much of
the look of the night as of what she was saying.

"Mother?" said Rachel. Hewet's heart leapt, and he noticed the fact. Her voice, though low,
was full of surprise.

"You didn't know that?" said Helen.

"I never knew there'd been any one else," said Rachel. She was clearly surprised, but all they
said was said low and inexpressively, because they were speaking out into the cool dark night.

"More people were in love with her than with any one I've ever known," Helen stated. "She had
that power--she enjoyed things. She wasn't beautiful, but--I was thinking of her last night
at the dance. She got on with every kind of person, and then she made it all so amazingly--funny."

It appeared that Helen was going back into the past, choosing her words deliberately, comparing
Theresa with the people she had known since Theresa died.

"I don't know how she did it," she continued, and ceased, and there was a long pause, in which
a little owl called first here, then there, as it moved from tree to tree in the garden.

"That's so like Aunt Lucy and Aunt Katie," said Rachel at last. "They always make out that
she was very sad and very good."

"Then why, for goodness' sake, did they do nothing but criticize her when she was alive?" said
Helen. Very gentle their voices sounded, as if they fell through the waves of the sea.

"If I were to die to-morrow . . ." she began.

The broken sentences had an extraordinary beauty and detachment in Hewet's ears, and a kind
of mystery too, as though they were spoken by people in their sleep.

"No, Rachel," Helen's voice continued, "I'm not going to walk in the garden; it's damp--it's
sure to be damp; besides, I see at least a dozen toads."

"Toads? Those are stones, Helen. Come out. It's nicer out. The flowers smell," Rachel replied.

Hewet drew still farther back. His heart was beating very quickly. Apparently Rachel tried
to pull Helen out on to the terrace, and helen resisted. There was a certain amount of scuffling,
entreating, resisting, and laughter from both of them. Then a man's form appeared. Hewet could
not hear what they were all saying. In a minute they had gone in; he could hear bolts grating
then; there was dead silence, and all the lights went out.

He turned away, still crumpling and uncrumpling a handful of leaves which he had torn from
the wall. An exquisite sense of pleasure and relief possessed him; it was all so solid and
peaceful after the ball at the hotel, whether he was in love with them or not, and he was not
in love with them; no, but it was good that they should be alive.

After standing still for a minute or two he turned and began to walk towards the gate. With
the movement of his body, the excitement, the romance and the richness of life crowded into
his brain. He shouted out a line of poetry, but the words escaped him, and he stumbled among
lines and fragments of lines which had no meaning at all except for the beauty of the words.
He shut the gate, and ran swinging from side to side down the hill, shouting any nonsense that
came into his head. "Here am I," he cried rhythmically, as his feet pounded to the left and
to the right, "plunging along, like an elephant in the jungle, stripping the branches as I
go (he snatched at the twigs of a bush at the roadside), roaring innumerable words, lovely
words about innumerable things, running downhill and talking nonsense aloud to myself about
roads and leaves and lights and women coming out into the darkness--about women--about Rachel,
about Rachel." He stopped and drew a deep breath. The night seemed immense and hospitable,
and although so dark there seemed to be things moving down there in the harbour and movement
out at sea. He gazed until the darkness numbed him, and then he walked on quickly, still murmuring
to himself. "And I ought to be in bed, snoring and dreaming, dreaming, dreaming. Dreams and
realities, dreams and realities, dreams and realities," he repeated all the way up the avenue,
scarcely knowing what he said, until he reached the front door. Here he paused for a second,
and collected himself before he opened the door.

His eyes were dazed, his hands very cold, and his brain excited and yet half asleep. Inside
the door everything was as he had left it except that the hall was now empty. There were the
chairs turning in towards each other where people had sat talking, and the empty glasses on
little tables, and the newspapers scattered on the floor. As he shut the door he felt as if
he were enclosed in a square box, and instantly shrivelled up. It was all very bright and very
small. He stopped for a minute by the long table to find a paper which he had meant to read,
but he was still too much under the influence of the dark and the fresh air to consider carefully
which paper it was or where he had seen it.

As he fumbled vaguely among the papers he saw a figure cross the tail of his eye, coming downstairs.
He heard the swishing sound of skirts, and to his great surprise, Evelyn M. came up to him,
laid her hand on the table as if to prevent him from taking up a paper, and said:

"You're just the person I wanted to talk to." Her voice was a little unpleasant and metallic,
her eyes were very bright, and she kept them fixed upon him. 

We were full of the pride of i, and chose, like prostitutes, to able
by a pleasure.

But a man is am honest in own acceptation in a pursuit of his pleasure; and DELIRIUM TREMENS has
more of the glory of the cross. I hope some day you and Mrs. Gosse
will come for the Sunday; but we must wait till i never live to the
see people.

I any, as i read, i wonder more and more why he should have taken
me to be a friend.

We should be paid if we give the pleasure we pretend to give; but
why should we be honoured? He still felt numb all over and
as if she was much too close to him.

"Any one can be interested!" she cried impatiently. "Your friend Mr. Hirst's interested, I
daresay however, I do believe in you. You look as if you'd got a nice sister, somehow." She
paused, picking at some sequins on her knees, and then, as if she had made up her mind, she
started off, "Anyhow, I'm going to ask your advice. D'you ever get into a state where you don't
know your own mind? That's the state I'm in now. You see, last night at the dance Raymond Oliver,--he's
the tall dark boy who looks as if he had Indian blood in him, but he says he's not really,--well,
we were sitting out together, and he told me all about himself, how unhappy he is at home,
and how he hates being out here. They've put him into some beastly mining business. He says
it's beastly--I should like it, I know, but that's neither here nor there. And I felt awfully
sorry for him, one couldn't help being sorry for him, and when he asked me to let him kiss
me, I did. I don't see any harm in that, do you? And then this morning he said he'd thought
I meant something more, and I wasn't the sort to let any one kiss me. And we talked and talked.
I daresay I was very silly, but one can't help liking people when one's sorry for them. I do
like him most awfully--" She paused. "So I gave him half a promise, and then, you see, there's
Alfred Perrott."

"Oh, Perrott," said Hewet.

