Ballarat is a busy town, and here Victorian energy is seen to its best advantage. It is, too,
the centre of a large and fertile agricultural district. Gold mining is not now what it once
was there. On all sides are the ruins of abandoned "claims," which give a most desolate appearance
to the immediate neighbourhood. There is now more gold found at Sandhurst, further north. During
the gold fever of 1851, and before there was a line from Geelong, as much as £70 per ton was
paid for carriage from that town. The distance is about 60 miles, and the transit occupied
ten days for heavy goods. "Until last year," said my friend, "there was a man walking the streets
of Ballarat who was known by no other name than Jimmy. He would never beg and never lie down
twice in the same spot to sleep if others got to know of it. People gave him food at the door,
or, if not, he went to the Asylum for it. I used to see him taking a zig-zag path about the
same time each day. When spoken to he would never reply. He had been in this condition since
thirty years ago. Then he was a prosperous digger, but some others drugged him, and took away
all his money. The drug spared his life, but took away his brains; and so he wandered about,
always looking for something, he did not know what." There must be many similar tales of violence
perpetrated during that wild time. Ballarat contains the widest street in the Colonies--one
of the widest in the world--viz., Sturt-street, which is three chains wide, but its width is
rather concealed by a line of trees in the middle. There are some fair buildings in it too.
Lake Wendouree, formerly a swamp, now forms a pleasant resort for the people of Ballarat for
boating, and being only four feet in depth, there is no danger of drowning. The drive round
it too, of about five miles, is pretty. Of course Ballarat cannot do without an art gallery,
but to that much praise cannot be given. Some of the pictures by local artists may be interesting
as specimens, but the prices attached to them are purely imaginative. To commemorate the Duke
of Edinburgh's visit a public hall was to be built, to which honour both East and West Ballarat--which
are separate municipalities--laid claim. The difficulty was solved by building the hall over
a small creek which separates the two towns, so that each has one end. As Ballarat is 1,400
feet above Melbourne, the temperature is much lower--10 degrees on an average. When I was there
in May the weather was decidedly cold. In winter snow is frequent, while in Melbourne it is
the rarest thing. From Ballarat I went to Adelaide, but that must be the subject of another letter.

IV.

SOUTH AUSTRALIA.

It is some months since I last wrote about Australia, but it is a question whether something
is not gained by a delay in putting together notes of travel. If much is lost in vividness
and particularity, yet the whole and its parts are thrown into better proportion, slight incidents
that at first seemed of much interest, are relegated to a more humble position, and really
salient points have a better chance of receiving their due share of attention.

On the 20th May, I went to Adelaide from Melbourne by the steamer Adelaide, and, among the
fine steamers of the Southern Hemisphere, there is none better appointed than this, in respect
of food, ventilation, and general comfort. Like many others, it is fitted with the electric
light. The captain is a well-known character. Some time before, he had been to blame in a collision
with another steamer on the river Yarra. The Marine Board at Melbourne suspended his certificate
for six months, but his employers, I was told, held him in such esteem that during that time
he went on his own ship as purser, until he could resume command. I was confined in the cabin
with a gentleman, who kindly informed me, beforehand, that he undertook this voyage in order
to be seasick, on account of his health, and so he kept me in a continual state of expectation,
like one who, in the night, every moment expects a cock to crow. At the end of the voyage he
expressed his regret that he had not been ill, which I could scarcely share. The journey, by
sea, takes about 48 hours; that is, from Port Philip Heads (the entrance to Melbourne Harbour)
to Port Adelaide, and the steamers run twice a-week from each end. Soon there will be direct
railway communication between Melbourne and Adelaide, but at present the land journey takes
three days, and is much more expensive, as a good deal of it has to be done by coaching. The
large mail steamers from Europe of the P. & O. and Orient lines stop for a few hours off Glenelg
(about seven miles from Adelaide), to land the mails and cargo; but the intercolonial and other
steamers come up, by a long detour, to Port Adelaide, which is also about seven miles from
the city; but here they come alongside the wharf. Some of the other colonies have been utilized
as penal settlements, or rather begun as such. South Australia was founded consciously and
deliberately in 1836. No convict is allowed to land, and a tax of £10 is imposed on every Chinese.
The site of Adelaide was chosen for that of the capital. From Port Adelaide to Adelaide the
rail runs through a level tract, and the city itself is placed in the centre of a plain, bounded
by hills on the north and east at about six miles distance. South Australia appears to be named
on the lucus a non lucendo principle, because, as a fact, almost the whole of South Australia
is to the north of Victoria; and, since 1863, it stretches right across the continent to the
north coast of Australia, which is far away into the tropics. Indeed, this northern territory
seems to be tacked on to South Australia, because it is not yet of sufficient importance to
have a government of its own, and it is difficult to know what to do with it. It is separated
by an enormous tract of country, and has nothing in common with South Australia proper. The
Bishop told me he supposed he should have to make a visitation through it. If in time this
district of the north becomes more populous, it is probable it will set up for itself, just
as there have long been agitations for separating Northern Queensland from the Southern portion,
and the Riverina from New South Wales, on the ground that their particular interests are not
sufficiently represented at Brisbane and Sydney respectively.

The population of the whole of South Australia is now about 318,000, that of Adelaide and its
suburbs being about 70,000. Adelaide is not only by far the largest town, but almost the only
town of any size. The city is laid out with a regularity that is almost painful. It stands
on a square mile of ground. At each side is a terrace, called respectively North, South, East,
and West Terrace. There are squares laid out at regular intervals. As is usual in Australian
towns, the streets are all at right angles, and generally of the same length and width. The
Adelaide people claim to have the finest street in the Colonies, the finest post office, and
the best hotel. King William Street is two chains wide--the widest streets in Melbourne are
1-1/2 chains--is a mile long, and contains the principal public buildings, the Town Hall, Post
Office, Courts of Justice, &c. The Post Office is a handsome building, with a lofty tower,
from which various signs are displayed notifying the arrival and departure of mails. At night
the electric light from the top can be seen from a great distance. From King William Street
start the various lines of tramway in every direction from the city. They run out to the various
suburbs--Magill, Burnside, Kensington, Norwood, Stepney, &c., some of which names sound very
familiar. The tramcars are as universally used as in Glasgow, and nowhere have I seen a better
service than in Adelaide. It is a pleasant way to spend an afternoon, to ride outside a tramcar
in the bright atmosphere, to some suburb, and return after a ramble in the country. From beyond
the North Terrace is a capital view over the city. Perhaps the best is from the house of Mr.
Way, the Chief Justice. His villa, at which I had the pleasure of visiting him, is one of the
most complete I have seen. Nothing is omitted that the arts of civilization can supply. His
library contains the choicest modern works. His garden is delicious with cool grottos and fountains.
In his aviaries is a collection of the rare birds of the country, all of which he knows. In
a separate cage are two fine eagles. Among the flowers I noticed the "Sturt Desert Pea," just
then in blossom, the loveliest wild flower of Australia. I have seen houses larger and finer,
no doubt, and better collections of particular objects, but never any place so perfect of its
kind. Some lines from the "Palace of Art" involuntarily occurred to me, but to no man does
the moral of Tennyson's poem less apply than to the Chief Justice, for he is one of the most
sympathetic and kind-hearted of men. I had intended staying at the Adelaide Club, and was provided
with an introduction, but found on arrival that all the bedrooms were occupied. Besides, visitors
are liable to give up their bedrooms to members, and as at this time some races were going
on, and the rooms consequently likely to continue occupied, it was better at once to put up
at a hotel. This was the "York," which was a comfortable house, and not particularly dear.
It is a favourite with visitors by the mail steamers, who often run up from Glenelg for the
few hours the steamer calls there.

Like all the other Australian Colonies (except Western Australia) South Australia has a Constitutional
Government, established in 1856, consisting of two Houses of Parliament and the Governor. For
the Lower House, which has 46 members, there is manhood suffrage. They are not paid as in Victoria,
but a Bill for paying them narrowly escaped passing last session, and will probably be carried
soon. While I was there there happened to be an election to the Legislative Council, the Upper
House, the members of which retire in rotation. The election address of one candidate is the
shortest I have ever seen. It was this: "Gentlemen,--My services are at your disposal as a
candidate for re-election to the Legislative Council." Evidently his constituents were not
troubled with burning questions. The position of a Governor in the Colonies is not altogether
an enviable one. He has a high official and social position, but little real power, because,
practically, he has to consent to any Bill passed by the two Houses. Any one can go to a Governor's
reception, and their entertainments are necessarily extremely catholic in their nature. It
is matter of common remark that people are seen there who are not seen anywhere else. A Governor's
salary is not at all large for his position, and besides general entertaining, he is expected
to entertain anyone of the least distinction who may happen to arrive. Adelaide is usually
the first calling place for visitors to Australia, and so the Governor of South Australia is
peculiarly liable to these calls upon his purse. Every law passed by the Colony has to be ratified
at home, so we have a free people at home governing a free people abroad, which is an anomaly,
and is daily seen more and more to be so.

South Australia exports wool, wheat, and copper, but the price of copper has fallen more than
50 per cent.; wheat is also very cheap, and has to compete with wheat from India; and in South
Australia farming operations are too often conducted by mere "earth scratchers," who have no
knowledge of agriculture. In 1851, considerable emigration to Victoria took place in consequence
of the discovery of gold in that Colony. There was and is great depression of trade in South
Australia, and we have recently heard of the failure of the "Commercial Bank of South Australia,"
but for all that the amount of the deposits in the South Australian Savings Bank is greater
than in any other in proportion to the population. It is nearly £5 per head. It is true some
of this is the result of compulsory savings under the provisions of the "Destitute Act."

After a few days at the hotel, I went to stay with a young relative of mine in the northern
suburb, where, with one exception, I remained the rest of my time. His wife kept no servant,
not so much on account of the expense as because, as she said, "They are more bother than they're
worth," and indeed this is a universal complaint in the Colonies. I slept in a small room,
and the last night but one observed in a corner of the ceiling, above the bed, what seemed
to be a large spider. On mentioning this the next morning, I learnt that it was a tarantula,
and was of use in catching insects. "Oh, but," I said, "doesn't it come down at night?" "Oh,
no," said my friend, "it never comes below this," marking a spot about a yard above my head.
This was not very reassuring, as there appeared nothing to prevent the animal from transgressing
the prescribed limit, should it feel so disposed. It never troubled me however, but I was afterwards
told that it had once come down too far and been killed. Such animals are unpleasant, and at
times dangerous, but they may be expected in countries where the heat is as great as it is
in Adelaide, which is considered to be one of the hottest places in the globe inhabited by
man. One evening we went to hear the Bishop preach in the Cathedral. It is a very unpretending
edifice, and in fact is only half built. It is all choir and no nave. In consequence of the
great number of women who attend the services, or of the politeness of the men, or both, the
Bishop has been obliged to set apart seats for men to protect them against the encroachment
of what Mr. Swinburne calls the "stronger sex." Another evening we went to see a native dance
or "corrobboree" as it is called. There are not many natives now left in South Australia, and
what there are have become very degraded. The law forbids the sale to them of intoxicating
liquors. Spirits not merely make them drunk, but drive them mad. As a sort of compensation
they come down to Adelaide at stated times for blankets, which are distributed to them by the
Government. On these occasions they are accustomed to exhibit themselves in their native antics
and dances for a little gain. At this time was expected a large muster, and in order to accommodate
as many visitors as possible, the Adelaide Cricket Club had induced the natives to hold their
corrobboree on the cricket ground, of course themselves looking for a large money return. Certainly
their anticipations must have been more than fulfilled, for there was a crowd at the entrance
resembling that outside a London theatre on boxing night. Instead of 3,000 people, the number
expected, there were nearer 15,000. Seats in the grand stand were 1s., outside the ring was
6d., but soon all distinction of place was lost. Presently about 50 natives, hideously decorated,
and stained with red to represent gashes on the head and breast, filed into the enclosure in
a long line. Small bonfires were lighted at intervals, and on these the performers leapt, one
exactly following the steps of another. Then they imitated the bounds of the Kangaroo when
pursued, but of dancing, or even posturing, in our sense of the word, there was none. Meantime
the "lubras" (native women) seated on the ground in one mass, kept up a monotonous chant, varying
their cadences with the beat of tom-toms. The night was dark, and the figures were indistinctly
seen. Soon the vast crowd becoming impatient, burst through the barriers, and scattered the
burning brands. A great scene of confusion ensued, and the performance came abruptly to an
end. One of the blacks remarked, not without reason, "Me tink dis white fellows' corrobboree."
It is a painful thing to see a race so degenerate as to be willing to show themselves for money
before their supplanters, and to see the former "lords of the soil" begging a copper from the
passer-by. One cannot but desire that their extinction in these parts, which is certain, may
be also speedy. I cannot easily imagine two more pitiable objects than those I afterwards saw
at Albany in Western Australia: a native man and woman begging, standing with their shrunken
limbs in rags that barely covered them. The cricket ground is in the "reserve," a part between
the north terrace and the northern suburb, which belongs to the community and cannot be built
on. It is separated from the north terrace by the river Torrens. Like many Australian rivers,
the Torrens starts up in various places and does not seem to have either a beginning or an
ending. It might be compared to the "sullen mole that runneth underneath," between Letherhead
and Dorking; but these Australian rivers, when they do appear, are inclined to stagnate. The
municipality of Adelaide, however, have wisely dammed up the river, and converted it into a
lake of about one and a half miles long, thus improving an eyesore into an ornament. It is
spanned by a handsome bridge. Near the north terrace, too, are the Botanical Gardens, one of
the best in Australia. The Zoological Gardens are close by, where there is a black cockatoo
and a white peacock.

As I said before, Adelaide is the only town of any size. There are others, however. One day
I went with my friend by train to the small town of Gawler, which is about 25 miles to the
north. The train takes about one and a half hours. There we were met by a gentleman with a
trap, who took us to see an ostrich farm about four miles from Gawler. It belongs to a company
at Adelaide and we had an order from head quarters to be shown over it. Ostriches have been
imported into South Australia from the Cape of Good Hope, and thrive here well enough. At length,
seeing the risk of a sharp competition in ostrich feathers, the Cape authorities have laid
an embargo of £100 on every ostrich exported, but this is locking the stable door when the
horse has escaped, for there are now in South Australia quite sufficient birds to keep up the
breed. The farm manager was a dry old Scotchman of much humour, and had made himself accustomed
to their ways. The farm was about 170 acres in extent, and at this time there were about 100
ostriches upon it, a number having recently been sent away north to Port Augusta, where is
another farm belonging to the same Company. Some of the birds had committed suicide on their
way to the sea. They will run up against palings or wire, get their long necks entangled, and
sometimes cut their throats in trying to extricate themselves. I noticed one that had his throat
bandaged up on this account. The birds are kept in paddocks, three or four together, or more,
if young and tame, but some are very savage. We drove through all the paddocks, but the manager
kept a sharp look-out, lest any should "bounce" at us. An ostrich, in attacking, kicks forward
with his legs, which give tremendous blows, and then, when he has kicked down his enemy, he
will probably sit upon him, and his weight is about two hundredweight. An ostrich, therefore,
cannot be considered a generous foe. The old manager had been a good deal knocked about by
them himself. On one occasion a bird had kicked him twice, broken a rib or two, and got him
up fast against the palings. However, he managed to seize hold of the bird's neck, and calling
to some men on the other side, he handed the neck to them over the palings, to hold while he
made his escape--which his ingenuity certainly deserved. I asked him what he did when they
ran away. "Well," he said, "I sit down and wait till they stop; you can't catch them." The
male takes turn with the female in sitting on the eggs, and when an ostrich has young ones
she is very dangerous to approach. A good breeding couple are worth £300. The feathers are
not taken off at any particular time of the year, but as they are ready, nor is cruelty exercised
in taking them. I saw several ovens which had been used for hatching the eggs, but now they
have enough birds to let them be hatched naturally, which is the safer way. An ostrich at close
quarters is certainly an unpleasant looking beast; his neck, moving rapidly in all directions,
surmounted by a small head, with bright wicked-looking eyes, reminds one of a snake. He has
a fancy for anything bright, and will make for a button on your coat if it happens to gleam.
I asked the age of ostriches, but could obtain no information. They look wiry enough to live
for ever.

On our return to Gawler we called on the way to see an orange farm. The oranges were being
picked. The trees, laden with fruit, seemed to have repaid the labour of the cultivator. Oranges
require a great deal of water. This grove was in a sheltered valley, and water was supplied
by a pump worked by wind. The man with us said you could not tell exactly what sort of oranges
would come, because the same tree sometimes bears different kinds. Whether this is the case
I do not know. Paramatta, near Sydney, is the chief place for oranges in Australia, but these
of Gawler seemed to be as good as any we could desire, to judge from the taste. At Gawler we
had tea at a friend's house. He said amongst other things--all interesting, but which I have
forgotten--that he always gave tramps a meal (which seems to be the custom) and usually offered
them work, but that none would work for less than 4s. 6d. a day. They preferred to do nothing.
The Gawler Museum was close by. It contains native clubs, tom-toms, skins of fishes, and a
valuable book of engravings from Hogarth. The last two or three days of my visit to South Australia
I spent with an old friend, who has been about six years a Professor at the University. He
lived about 20 miles to the east of Adelaide, beyond the Mount Lofty range, and the scenery
by rail thither, across the mountains, is very striking. His comfortable house is about a mile
from the station, and here he spends his leisure time with his family, in sensible pursuits.
The University of Adelaide is yet in its early youth, and only quite lately have any buildings
been erected for it, but the professorships are well endowed, and the number of students annually
increases. From Adelaide I returned by steamer to Melbourne, and from there in a few days I
went to Tasmania. On my subsequent return to England I spent a day at Adelaide, but then was
in the company of friends the whole time.

V.

Tasmania.

The island of Tasmania is about 200 miles direct South of Victoria. Up to 1856 its name was
Van Diemen's land. Then it was officially changed to Tasmania, a name which is more euphonious
and at the same time more correct, for the island was discovered by the Dutch navigator, Tasman,
who called it after his father-in-law, Van Diemen. The change of name does not seem at once
to have been appreciated in England, for it is related of the first Bishop of Tasmania, Bishop
Nixon that, having occasion to call at the Foreign Office, he left his card "F. R. Tasmania,"
and received a reply addressed to F. R. Tasmania, Esq.! This reminds one of the Duke of Newcastle,
who, when Prime Minister, expressed his astonishment that Cape Breton was an island, and hurried
off to tell the King. Tasmania may be reached direct from England by the Steamers of the Shaw
Savill and Albion Line, which call at Hobart on their way to New Zealand once a month. The
Steamers of the New Zealand Shipping Co. also call occasionally at Hobart for coal, but they
are not to be relied on for stopping. Tasmania is however usually reached from Melbourne. Bass's
Straits, the sea between Victoria and Tasmania is usually stormy, and many passengers who have
never been seasick all the way from England have succumbed to Bass's Straits. What is more
remarkable however, is that some for whom Bass's Straits have had no terrors, have been seasick
on the narrow-gauge line from Launceston to Hobart! There are two ways of going from Melbourne
to Hobart, one by Steamer to Launceston at the north of the Island, and 40 miles up the river
Tamar, which takes about 24 hours, and thence by express train to Hobart which takes 5-3/4
hours, the other by Steamer all the way. There are two lines of Steamers, the Tasmanian S.S.
Co., and the Union S.S. Co., of New Zealand, which calls at Hobart on the way to New Zealand.
The Steamers of the latter Company are built by Messrs. Denny, of Dumbarton, and are fine,
comfortable, and swift. To travel by one of them is in my opinion far the pleasantest way of
reaching Hobart from Melbourne. Others to whom the shortest sea passage is preferable, will
naturally go by Launceston, and will have a beautiful ride through the country, though they
may be shaken to pieces.

Tasmania is about half the size of England, but its population is only 120,000. There are only
two towns of any size--Hobart in the south and Launceston in the north. A great deal of the
interior is marshy, and there are lakes of some considerable size, which in the winter are
sometimes frozen. The north-west coast is very barren and sparsely inhabited. The doctors and
clergy in these parts have often long journeys to make through the bush. In climate, Tasmania
is preferable to Australia. The temperature is much more equable, and therefore not so trying
to weak constitutions. Formerly, many Anglo-Indians visited the north-west coast; but this
has not been so much the case latterly. Numbers of tourists come from Australia during the
summer months. Compared to the larger island, Tasmania is well watered, and the rainfall is
very much greater. The climate has often been compared to that of England, without its damps
and fogs, but the lightness and clearness of the atmosphere rather resemble that of the South
of France or Italy, and supply that gentle exhilaration to the spirits which can be so seldom
known in England. Mount Wellington, which rises 4,000 feet above Hobart, is often covered with
a wreath of mist, and in the winter with snow. Many English fruits and trees have been introduced,
and flourish well. The sweet briar was brought in some years ago, and now in many parts the
hedges are of nothing else. The native foliage is, however, the same as that of Australia.
Everywhere the eucalyptus predominates, and in Tasmania grows to a great height. Some of the
finest trees may be seen in driving from Hobart along the Huon Road.

