he was in great perplexity whether he should submit himself to Galba, or apply to the Parthians
for protection, or else appear before the people dressed in mourning, and, upon the rostra,
in the most piteous manner, beg pardon for his past misdemeanors, and, if he could not prevail,
request of them to grant him at least the government of Egypt.  A speech to this purpose was
afterwards found in his writing-case.  But it is conjectured that he durst not venture upon
this project, for fear of being torn to pieces, before he could get to the Forum.  Deferring,
therefore, his resolution until the next (376) day, he awoke about midnight, and finding the
guards withdrawn, he leaped out of bed, and sent round for his friends.  But none of them vouchsafing
any message in reply, he went with a few attendants to their houses.  The doors being every
where shut, and no one giving him any answer, he returned to his bed-chamber; whence those
who had the charge of it had all now eloped; some having gone one way, and some another, carrying
off with them his bedding and box of poison.  He then endeavoured to find Spicillus, the gladiator,
or some one to kill him; but not being able to procure any one, "What!" said he, "have I then
neither friend nor foe?" and immediately ran out, as if he would throw himself into the Tiber.

XLVIII.  But this furious impulse subsiding, he wished for some place of privacy, where he
might collect his thoughts; and his freedman Phaon offering him his country-house, between
the Salarian [626] and Nomentan [627] roads, about four miles from the city, he mounted a horse,
barefoot as he was, and in his tunic, only slipping over it an old soiled cloak; with his head
muffled up, and an handkerchief before his face, and four persons only to attend him, of whom
Sporus was one.  He was suddenly struck with horror by an earthquake, and by a flash of lightning
which darted full in his face, and heard from the neighbouring camp [628] the shouts of the
soldiers, wishing his destruction, and prosperity to Galba. He also heard a traveller they
met on the road, say, "They are (377) in pursuit of Nero:" and another ask, "Is there any news
in the city about Nero?"  Uncovering his face when his horse was started by the scent of a
carcase which lay in the road, he was recognized and saluted by an old soldier who had been
discharged from the guards.  When they came to the lane which turned up to the house, they
quitted their horses, and with much difficulty he wound among bushes, and briars, and along
a track through a bed of rushes, over which they spread their cloaks for him to walk on.  Having
reached a wall at the back of the villa, Phaon advised him to hide himself awhile in a sand-pit;
when he replied, "I will not go under-ground alive."  Staying there some little time, while
preparations were made for bringing him privately into the villa, he took up some water out
of a neighbouring tank in his hand, to drink, saying, "This is Nero's distilled water." [629]
Then his cloak having been torn by the brambles, he pulled out the thorns which stuck in it.
At last, being admitted, creeping upon his hands and knees, through a hole made for him in
the wall, he lay down in the first closet he came to, upon a miserable pallet, with an old
coverlet thrown over it; and being both hungry and thirsty, though he refused some coarse bread
that was brought him, he drank a little warm water.

