D.W.]

THE GENTLEMAN OF FIFTY AND THE DAMSEL OF NINETEEN

(An early uncompleted fragment.)

By George Meredith

CHAPTER I

Passing over Ickleworth Bridge and rounding up the heavily-shadowed river of our narrow valley,
I perceived a commotion as of bathers in a certain bright space immediately underneath the
vicar's terrace-garden steps.  My astonishment was considerable when it became evident to me
that the vicar himself was disporting in the water, which, reaching no higher than his waist,
disclosed him in the ordinary habiliments of his cloth.  I knew my friend to be one of the
most absent-minded of men, and my first effort to explain the phenomenon of his appearance
there, suggested that he might have walked in, the victim of a fit of abstraction, and that
he had not yet fully comprehended his plight; but this idea was dispersed when I beheld the
very portly lady, his partner in joy and adversity, standing immersed, and perfectly attired,
some short distance nearer to the bank. As I advanced along the bank opposed to them, I was
further amazed to hear them discoursing quite equably together, so that it was impossible to
say on the face of it whether a catastrophe had occurred, or the great heat of a cloudless
summer day had tempted an eccentric couple to seek for coolness in the directest fashion, without
absolute disregard to propriety.  I made a point of listening for the accentuation of the 'my
dear' which was being interchanged, but the key-note to the harmony existing between husband
and wife was neither excessively unctuous, nor shrewd, and the connubial shuttlecock was so
well kept up on both sides that I chose to await the issue rather than speculate on the origin
of this strange exhibition.  I therefore, as I could not be accused of an outrage to modesty,
permitted myself to maintain what might be invidiously termed a satyr-like watch from behind
a forward flinging willow, whose business in life was to look at its image in a brown depth,
branches, trunk, and roots.  The sole indication of discomfort displayed by the pair was that
the lady's hand worked somewhat fretfully to keep her dress from ballooning and puffing out
of all proportion round about her person, while the vicar, who stood without his hat, employed
a spongy handkerchief from time to time in tempering the ardours of a vertical sun.  If you
will consent to imagine a bald blackbird, his neck being shrunk in apprehensively, as you may
see him in the first rolling of the thunder, you will gather an image of my friend's appearance.

He performed his capital ablutions with many loud 'poofs,' and a casting up of dazzled eyes,
an action that gave point to his recital of the invocation of Chryses to Smintheus which brought
upon the Greeks disaster and much woe.  Between the lines he replied to his wife, whose remarks
increased in quantity, and also, as I thought, in emphasis, under the river of verse which
he poured forth unbaffled, broadening his chest to the sonorous Greek music in a singular rapture
of obliviousness.

A wise man will not squander his laughter if he can help it, but will keep the agitation of
it down as long as he may.  The simmering of humour sends a lively spirit into the mind, whereas
the boiling over is but a prodigal expenditure and the disturbance of a clear current: for
the comic element is visible to you in all things, if you do but keep your mind charged with
the perception of it, as I have heard a great expounder deliver himself on another subject;
and he spoke very truly.  So, I continued to look on with the gravity of Nature herself, and
I could not but fancy, and with less than our usual wilfulness when we fancy things about Nature's
moods, that the Mother of men beheld this scene with half a smile, differently from the simple
observation of those cows whisking the flies from their flanks at the edge of the shorn meadow
and its aspens, seen beneath the curved roof of a broad oak-branch.  Save for this happy upward
curve of the branch, we are encompassed by breathless foliage; even the gloom was hot; the
little insects that are food for fish tried a flight and fell on the water's surface, as if
panting.  Here and there, a sullen fish consented to take them, and a circle spread, telling
of past excitement.

I had listened to the vicar's Homeric lowing for the space of a minute or so--what some one
has called, the great beast-like, bellow-like, roar and roll of the Iliad hexameter: it stopped
like a cut cord.  One of the numerous daughters of his house appeared in the arch of white
cluster- roses on the lower garden-terrace, and with an exclamation, stood petrified at the
extraordinary spectacle, and then she laughed outright. I had hitherto resisted, but the young
lady's frank and boisterous laughter carried me along, and I too let loose a peal, and discovered
myself.  The vicar, seeing me, acknowledged a consciousness of his absurd position with a laugh
as loud.  As for the scapegrace girl, she went off into a run of high-pitched shriekings like
twenty woodpeckers, crying: I Mama, mama, you look as if you were in Jordan!'

The vicar cleared his throat admonishingly, for it was apparent that Miss Alice was giving
offence to her mother, and I presume he thought it was enough for one of the family to have
done so.

'Wilt thou come out of Jordan?' I cried.

'I am sufficiently baptized with the water,' said the helpless man. . .

'Indeed, Mr. Amble,' observed his spouse, 'you can lecture a woman for not making the best
of circumstances; I hope you'll bear in mind that it's you who are irreverent.  I can endure
this no longer.  You deserve Mr. Pollingray's ridicule.'

Upon this, I interposed: 'Pray, ma'am, don't imagine that you have anything but sympathy from
me.'--but as I was protesting, having my mouth open, the terrible Miss Alice dragged the laughter
remorselessly out of me.

They have been trying Frank's new boat, Mr. Pollingray, and they've upset it.  Oh! oh' and
again there was the woodpeckers' chorus.

'Alice, I desire you instantly to go and fetch John the gardener,' said the angry mother.

'Mama, I can't move; wait a minute, only a minute.  John's gone about the geraniums.  Oh! 
don't look so resigned, papa; you'll kill me!  Mama, come and take my hand.  Oh! oh!'

The young lady put her hands in against her waist and rolled her body like a possessed one.

'Why don't you come in through the boat-house?' she asked when she had mastered her fit.

'Ah!' said the vicar.  I beheld him struck by this new thought.

'How utterly absurd you are, Mr. Amble!' exclaimed his wife, 'when you know that the boat-house
is locked, and that the boat was lying under the camshot when you persuaded me to step into it.'

Hearing this explanation of the accident, Alice gave way to an ungovernable emotion.

'You see, my dear,' the vicar addressed his wife, she can do nothing; it's useless.  If ever
patience is counselled to us, it is when accidents befall us, for then, as we are not responsible,
we know we are in other hands, and it is our duty to be comparatively passive.  Perhaps I may
say that in every difficulty, patience is a life-belt.  I beg of you to be patient still.'

'Mr. Amble, I shall think you foolish,' said the spouse, with a nod of more than emphasis.

My dear, you have only to decide,' was the meek reply.

By this time, Miss Alice had so far conquered the fiend of laughter that she could venture
to summon her mother close up to the bank and extend a rescuing hand.  Mrs. Amble waded to
within reach, her husband following. Arrangements were made for Alice to pull, and the vicar
to push; both in accordance with Mrs. Amble's stipulations, for even in her extremity of helplessness
she affected rule and sovereignty.  Unhappily, at the decisive moment, I chanced (and I admit
it was more than an inadvertence on my part, it was a most ill-considered thing to do) I chanced,
I say, to call out--and that I refrained from quoting Voltaire is something in my favour:

'How on earth did you manage to tumble in?'

There can be no contest of opinion that I might have kept my curiosity waiting, and possibly
it may be said with some justification that I was the direct cause of my friend's unparalleled
behaviour; but could a mortal man guess that in the very act of assisting his wife's return
to dry land, and while she was--if I may put it so--modestly in his hands, he would turn about
with a quotation that compared him to old Palinurus, all the while allowing his worthy and
admirable burden to sink lower and dispread in excess upon the surface of the water, until
the vantage of her daughter's help was lost to her; I beheld the consequences of my indiscretion,
dismayed.  I would have checked the preposterous Virgilian, but in contempt of my uplifted
hand and averted head, and regardless of the fact that his wife was then literally dependent
upon him, the vicar declaimed (and the drenching effect produced by Latin upon a lady at such
a season, may be thought on):

               Vix primos inopina quies laxaverat artus,
               Et super incumbens, cum puppis parte revulsa
               Cumque gubernaclo liquidas projecit in undas.'

It is not easy when you are unacquainted with the language, to retort upon Latin, even when
the attempt to do so is made in English.  Very few even of the uneducated ears can tolerate
such anti-climax vituperative as English after sounding Latin.  Mrs. Amble kept down those
sentiments which her vernacular might have expressed.  I heard but one groan that came from
her as she lay huddled indistinguishably in the, arms of her husband.

'Not--praecipitem!  I am happy to say,' my senseless friend remarked further, and laughed cheerfully
as he fortified his statement with a run of negatives.  'No, no'; in a way peculiar to him.
'No, no.  If I plant my grey hairs anywhere, it will be on dry land: no.  But, now, my dear;
he returned to his duty; why, you're down again.  Come: one, two, and up.'

He was raising a dead weight.  The passion for sarcastic speech was manifestly at war with
common prudence in the bosom of Mrs. Amble; prudence, however, overcame it.  She cast on him
a look of a kind that makes matrimony terrific in the dreams of bachelors, and then wedding
her energy to the assistance given she made one of those senseless springs of the upper half
of the body, which strike the philosophic eye with the futility of an effort that does not
arise from a solid basis.  Owing to the want of concert between them, the vicar's impulsive
strength was expended when his wife's came into play.  Alice clutched her mother bravely. 
The vicar had force enough to stay his wife's descent; but Alice (she boasts of her muscle)
had not the force in the other direction--and no wonder. Love dominant,
selfish! Because, those pleasures, that you enjoyed, that made him lay down other higher, due
to her panic! ... She was also flesh and blood, and to be with you felt powerless to resist
the passion demanding: after, alone with his own consciousness, urgent voice heard! All the latter
part of his diary is full of the idea death. Do you wonder that, looking at a dead end, put
that idea in practice?

- I said, I wrote, but at the time of executing the act, the idea of ​​God must stop his hand.

-
The idea of ​​God's hand stopped many times, but there came a time
of intolerable pain, and died!

- "Without me a word?

She knew that I had returned to life, would it have destroyed Knock out the effect of his teachings?
You say that killing, wanted to evade evil, but do you think that
in doing so has done well?

The judge in turn was left unanswered, and candle plant, realizing
that he had finally obtained an advantage in that struggle, he continued:

-
She thought and wrote that in some cases you can escape life without
deserving reproach; death but may be he is alone, not that which oversees
another.

Can not you just read his words? "There are some serious love: every lover is not only responsible
for their own actions but also those to which drives her lover.

"And she would have given the example of death ... I believe in the beauty of your soul I do
not think otherwise. And the certainty that I have not been killed, it enhances my worship.

-
So the duty not to let a man she had married the heart, was a pretext?

- Not really had married him.

- Nothing meant then that bond, because the law had not punished?

- Do you believe in the goodness of human laws, in its perfection?

Do you believe that salvation is to observe faithfully?

- Do you doubt?

And those are the principles that you spread your books? What professing those principles you
have so much dislike the nihilist? Do not you know you deniers, Pessimists are the teachers, the instigators
of all those bold spirits who abstract speculations are not enough, but they translate into
action, of course, the reasoning you preach?

- I do not deny the laws: I'm saying is that they do not resolve the difficulties within which
we are condemned to move, the wave and nothing more. And though he had been legally attached to
this man ...

- Would you have had the right to seduce her, to take it off?

Could she have missed his word?

- You can not swear an eternal love ...

- And you swore to her?

-
You can not love who does not love.

- Would you say the same if you
were the left?

And as to the strong case the young man remained silent and confused,
the judge said in different tone:

- Ah!

We are not as far as you probably think, the object of our research! These ideas, the contrast of
illusion with reality, the struggle of duty with pleasure wounded the unfortunate death, making it
difficult to see and feel how life is. Who wanted to leave it is too obvious. Lack only show
that really put into practice its purpose. There is no direct evidence, but all presumptions are
against you. Think you coldly if able, the amount of circumstances that lie ahead, and you'll see that
I have reason to think so. You have reported to the two people who were home at the time of death,
but is against what the two need to address suspicions and investigations? It would be time to decide!
Prince Is Responsible? And why he would have died to unhappy? Why jealous? But first and foremost,
you must remember that this man, who does not give you have other powers than those of hate
and evil, had turned to love and suffering Countess knowing that he had lost his affection. But
the Countess was because of you? Passion was for you had for her. Would leave Príncipe e leave
with you? No, quite the opposite! Up declaring the last minute tied the other, refuses to listen
to you, you plot to leave it! With great difficulty, after insisting earnestly, you will start
to permit hope: hope ambiguous, uncertain, distant, can you leave to take for not received,
she could not deny, but commits to nothing. Given the nature of Countess, the seriousness of
his scruples, the sincerity of his remorse, we believe that as soon as you left, she again
began to accuse, to prohibit the keeping of hope just grant and accept. In this situation,
what reason was the Prince to kill? Still loved her, or if you please, was jealous, jealous was
brutal those jealous mean offense to ownership and nothing more. But what could accuse? There
have been delivered to you! News had to make sure that slightest effort to prove his good, a word
of love, a kind word, would prevented the Countess out of you. I believe that there is jealousy,
which is not hate, what makes you dismiss both the man, I admit I do not have good feelings
place in the Prince and that, in reality, it is capable of a common crime. But the malignancy
more brutal has nevertheless need a pretext if not reason to arm and hurt. And I see no reasons
or excuses here. You probably assumed that, after having you agreed to work with such consent
as ambiguous, was his friend to provoke Zakunine, to suddenly declare that he loved you? No doubt
that without it between your will, self-esteem suggests that reasoning: that is logical. But If
the Countess had wanted delivered to the inclination I felt for you, no one would have stopped
when Zakunine was away. And right now, are really needed to take leave this man? If the disability
had come from him, she might have to rebel and challenge; but did not come from him but herself,
her inner consciousness. Therefore, the hypothesis is absurd. Now, would you have been the
nihilist? This would have died at the Countess because she loved the Prince and was jealous
of her rival. But in this case, no difficulties are less than the other: on the contrary! First
of all, would show that the two Russians are lover and beloved, which both deny, then, although it
proved, for that Natzichet kill the Condesa needed it outside an obstacle for love. In what way
was it? Could, perhaps, the unfortunate, nor how to prevent the Prince to leave with other women?
How was this unfortunate shadow on the nihilist? Did not they have the two Russians free to
stay together in Zurich? And if you can not rationally allocate murder the one or the other,
can we assume that they have made together? Absurdity would double! Then, if the friend you had
not had reason to flee the life, we would if host the suspected murder narrowly founded that
outside as it is. But the reasons are having driven to suicide, not only missing, but abound.
You have, however, an argument on your part, you just ...

Ferpierre paused a moment to breathe. Roberto candle plant remained in the same position that from
the beginning I had heard, head bowed, hands tightly clenched, and who hopes a fatal blow.

-
There are hundreds and thousands of women in the position of the Countess d'Arda, in his scruples
and the temptations of passion, not go so far as to commit suicide. Expected, and over time fit
to a life unbearable thought for a moment: compromise with his scruples; found in the example
of others an excuse and confidence in the future redemption.

Such is the behavior of all, almost all. You have well defined from the outset, the importance
for this reason. But to believe that, to argue that the Countess has not even wanted to kill himself
after their final explanation with you, at the sight of evil inevitable,
you have to admit that his friend, that this woman, whose greatness
of soul prefers you and I really created by these confessions, the
statements of people who knew her, you have Admittedly, I say, instead
of resisting to the last, was also capable, like the others, of these
comfortable transactions that we witness everyday.

It is good that he is killed not prove to have a warm soul, and shows an absolute faith, but if,
for work you the poor woman was found unable to adopt a third party, I believe that both chose
the least bad. And do not you think it strange that I should hold against yourself, the strength
of conscience of this woman, the delicacy of his honor? ...

Rose candle plant, and passing his hand across his forehead, said, defeated, lost: - Do not
say that! ... Yes, indeed ... You are right ... You may be right ... But do not say, not again!
... Because then, is that I, I myself have died! ... Dead for me! ... For me! ... Look here ... this
idea, this suspicion has broken my heart. I feel like I go crazy!

VI

RESEARCH

When the judge was left alone, the confidence that had sustained left
him suddenly.

Candle plant resistance had stung, suggesting arguments whose force against charge you looked great,
but at last, seeing that the other agreed with him, instead of asserting in his opinion, turned
to doubt. The reconstruction of the drama was credible, but nobody could statements that were true,
and as to the possibility of murder, was in fact unsustainable? Having developed one of the
two hypotheses, it should examine the other and this task was prepared,
with a growing antipathy toward the accused.

Moved by the pain of candle plant, keen interest by the deceased,
more than ever distrustful of the Russians.

The day following the interrogation of the young, was, along with several packets of letters,
Nice and Zurich abducted, the information requested to the chief of police department and the Russian
legation in Bern, about two nihilists. What is already known about the nature Prince Alexis
Petrovich was confirmed and documented by extensive and detailed reports from both sources,
full of statements made in previous political processes. But also learned things I had never
suspected.

Heir to the genius of the Slavic race, moved by feelings too impetuous and neighbors of the primitive
instincts, Zakunine suffered, moreover, that hysteria which, according to science modern nerve
disease has been found, is not only a painful privilege female. Truly amazing things related
of the Prince, his tumultuous youth. Fatherless, hatred since childhood had been the second husband
of her mother had turned into homicidal mania. Constantly beaten cruelly punished with a savagery
that far exceeded the severity merited by their sins, your character
had soured.

One day - have not had more than ten years - walking with a comrade of the same age, approaching
a railway station. The friend had told him that keeps travel lines the path of the rails that
are responsible for monitoring, to ensure that no obstacle threatened the safety of the train,
then he took advantage of a time when your partner does not I watched him, and no more mobile
than a perverse curiosity of evil, had put on the rails two large stones, and had stayed around
till the train came to judge the spectacle of the disaster.

The rocks were quite large, but, fortunately, very resistant, and the wheels of the machine
reduced them to dust without departing point. In separate occasion, Some years later, the insanity
of that being cold was manifested in another way, against itself. Went about their possessions
in Little Russia, and a boy, the son of a peasant, who served as a guide, was explaining the
qualities of trees and herbs as they passed a green bush, the boy pointed to a small plant with
long leaves and hairy, and he said: "This is Bethlehem, a terrible poison." Then, quickly, without
giving his time guide to approach him, not to prevent the act, pulled few pages could hold his hand and
ate it. The guide had deceived the henbane plant was not, but for a whole day, they had all Alejo
Zakunine believed poisoned, and were among admired and amazed to see the ironic joy with which
he awaited death, and rebuked those who showed distress.

His entire youth was a storm. Without money, the devil had taken Game by the hair, one night
after losing a sum that could not pay, had fired a pistol shot in the heart, not surviving their
shame, the bullet, straying, he had broken the humerus. As a matter underhand had a duel, and had
not wanted reconciled with his adversary, but later had saved him from death, with risk his life,
heroically.

To eighteen years had been impossible to do learn anything, or persuade him consider a single
lesson, but once ashamed to speak French woman, a girl, believing that language expert had
changed his life overnight, during two or three years, no one saw him again: delivered to the studio
with the same energy he devoted to bad, he quickly recovered the lost time.

Nothing was difficult for smooth and sharp intelligence.

His will was capable of acts of firmness railroad, relentless perseverance, but it always
remained the same, with the abduction of tenacious effort alternated frequent crises of nervous,
sickly relaxation. This side of his moral constitution was less known for the kind of jealous that
put shame to hide their weaknesses. However, he had seen mourn.

Cold and hard with their peers, loved animals with human affection. Passionate hunting, his dogs
were his friends, talked with them, kissed them, looked straight in the eyes, as if to penetrate
their dark soul gross. Faced with those tiny beings became humble served them personally, is unaware
of himself for taking care of them not missing nothing, and if any of them got sick, did not give
a moment's rest.

One of his dogs died with his head resting on his knees, looking up to the last moment with
his eyes dull and sad, and when he was already stiff, when he felt cold and lifeless body before
vibrating under his touch, when he had understood the mystery of death, crying, a mute and copious
tears spilled from her eyes. With females was not as loving as with males: the lashes discharged
his hand in moments of anger, fell only over them, but one day cease to provide the difference,
seeing a dog, after having given birth to many suffering half a dozen puppies, got sick, but
not consented, in which the removed children and howled so piteously, that, finally, is the
returned, and died with all his offspring turned on the chest.

In the company of the women had fled as instinctively, since childhood, but at twenty years, killed
his mother, who owns a vast fortune, came at once, with transformation sudden, the solitary
life of the country, where violent exercises alternated with mortifications of the study,
to be delivered cold and almost studiously to the elegant and unhealthy pleasures of the city.
It dispelled a lot of money and a lot of nervous energy: its constitution
and unbalanced is exhausted.

Love, the first love of my soul, it inspired the daughter of Prince Arkof. The effect of moral
anachronism in that nature than others, did not need to impress loved with an affection young,
naive and shy when for any another man had already passed the time of that love. His teenage
years were lonely and savage poetic been visited by ghosts, but by those laws of balance and compensation
seem to extend its empire in the world of matter to the spirit world, the poetry of the heart,
whereby seemed to subtracted, seized him when he was just immersed in the most prosaic and base
loves. And shame had driven a time to banish from his mind the limbo of ignorance, moral confusion
subjugated his soul.

From one day to another and for a brief time there, no one recognized in him the same man and
he left unworthy companies after vile entertainment, for a reaction that was not have foreseen, not
live but dreams of pure contemplation, in silent adoration and unobtrusive; all that's not encouraged
other purpose than to be worthy of being loved by a exemplary life.

The charm and the spell was broken again to work on it when the tyranny of parents of Princess Catherine
made it to marry the Borischof general, governor of Kiev. The impetus wild, violent convulsions,
then returned to assault him, but something strange! not immediately seized his soul, whose capacity
could be proved sentimental and measured by this, he knew restrained and resigned to the idea
that his wife's heart was in the arms of another.

As I hardly talked and ignored her feelings, having content to pine for her from afar, he thought,
seeing her accept the general's hand, which I loved him, that he would be happy with it. And
bleeding heart, consumed with grief, fell, withdrew in order not to be an obstacle to her happiness,
but when he learned that his successful rival not worth the fortune he had reached, that not
only was not happy, but insulted, abused and mortified at being who he would have wanted to
save, not only pain, but even uncomfortable idea, a furor that was anger, remorse and contempt,
threw him to the field of nihilists who were preparing to kill the terrible governor. Discovered
the conspiracy, his rank and above range, the reason entirely moral guiding him, saved him cruel
punishment inflicted on his companions, but that policy, which had been indifferent until that
day, it suddenly ignited.

In the frequency of the revolutionaries during the preparation of the plot had failed, dominated
as it was by another idea, to lie in the arming reasons: love freedom, hatred of tyranny, the thirst
for justice, the ideal of brotherhood were incomprehensible for the love avenger, but when
arrested and prosecuted, he met the brutal treatment police, judges unconsciousness, the heroism
of the conspirators, when he was banished of the country, when observed,
traveling the world, with a heavy heart, the painful contrast proud
of the greatness and miseries incurable suddenly wore a new ideal
before their eyes: the human redemption.

But, as expected, not that time has kept restraint. In France, the Netherlands, Germany, in England
he sought the party bosses and anarchist nihilist, as he could from his forces and all their
personal activity to propaganda, mixed into new conspiracies that effects were bloody, and was again
convicted and sentenced to death. With incredible recklessness returned several times to Russia in
secret to see their co-religionists, to encourage and direct: in danger of falling into the
hands of justice, was miraculously saved, and continued after plotting
abroad, always dreaming and preparing the social cataclysm had to
open the doors of his country and regenerated.

Viva Print Ferpierre occurred in the judge's reading of these documents.
  I do declare
you know nothing of what we unhappy women have to endure.  It's dreadful!  No male creature
can possibly know what tortures I have to undergo.'

Mama neatly contrived, after interrupting her, to divert the subject. I think that all the
ladies imagined they were in jeopardy, but I knew Mrs. Romer was perfectly to be trusted. 
She has wit which pleases, jusqu'aux ongles, and her sense of humour never overrides her discretion
with more than a glance--never with preparation.

'Now,' she pursued, 'let me tell you what excruciating trials I have to go through.  This man,'
she rocked the patient old gentleman to and fro, 'this man will be the death of me.  He is
utterly devoid of a sense of propriety.  Again and again I say to him--cannot the tailor cut
down these trowsers of yours?  Yes, Mr. Amble, you preach patience to women, but this is too
much for any woman's endurance.  Now, do attempt to picture to yourself what an agony it must
be to me:--he will shave, and he will wear those enormously high trowsers that, when they are
braced, reach up behind to the nape of his neck!  Only yesterday morning, as I was lying in
bed, I could see him in his dressing-room.  I tell you: he will shave, and he will choose the
time for shaving early after he has braced these immensely high trowsers that make such a placard
of him. Oh, my goodness!  My dear Romer, I have said to him fifty times if I have said it once,
my goodness me! why can you not get decent trowsers such as other men wear?  He has but one
answer--he has been accustomed to wear those trowsers, and he would not feel at home in another
pair.  And what does he say if I continue to complain? and I cannot but continue to complain,
for it is not only moral, it is physical torment to see the sight he makes of himself; he says:
"My dear, you should not have married an old man."  What!  I say to him, must an old man wear
antiquated trowsers?  No! nothing will turn him; those are his habits.  But, you have not heard
the worst.  The sight of those hideous trowsers totally destroying all shape in the man, is
horrible enough; but it is absolutely more than a woman can bear to see him--for he will shave--first
cover his face with white soap with that ridiculous centre-piece to his trowsers reaching quite
up to his poll, and then, you can fancy a woman's rage and anguish!  the figure lifts its nose
by the extremist tip.  Oh! it's degradation!  What respect can a woman have for her husband
after that sight?  Imagine it!  And I have implored him to spare me.  It's useless. You sneer
at our hbops and say that you are inconvenienced by them but you gentlemen are not degraded,--Oh!
unutterably!--as I am every morning of my life by that cruel spectacle of a husband.'

I have but faintly sketched Mrs. Romer's style. Evelina, who is prudish and thinks her vulgar,
refused to laugh, but it came upon me, as the picture of 'your own old husband,' with so irresistibly
comic an effect that I was overcome by convulsions of laughter.  I do not defend myself. It
was as much a fit as any other attack.  I did all I could to arrest it.  At last, I ran indoors
and upstairs to my bedroom and tried hard to become dispossessed.  I am sure I was an example
of the sufferings of my sex.  It could hardly have been worse for Mrs. Romer than it was for
me. I was drowned in internal laughter long after I had got a grave face. Early in the evening
Mr. Pollingray left us.

CHAPTER III

HE

I am carried by the fascination of a musical laugh.  Apparently I am doomed to hear it at my
own expense.  We are secure from nothing in this life.

I have determined to stand for the county.  An unoccupied man is a prey to every hook of folly.
Be dilettante all your days, and you might as fairly hope to reap a moral harvest as if you
had chased butterflies. The activities created by a profession or determined pursuit are necessary
to the growth of the mind.

Heavens!  I find myself writing like an illegitimate son of La Rochefoucauld, or of Vauvenargues.
But, it is true that I am fifty years old, and I am not mature.  I am undeveloped somewhere.

The question for me to consider is, whether this development is to be accomplished by my being
guilty of an act of egregious folly.

Dans la cinquantaine!  The reflection should produce a gravity in men. Such a number of years
will not ring like bridal bells in a man's ears. I have my books about me, my horses, my dogs,
a contented household. I move in the centre of a perfect machine, and I am dissatisfied.  I
rise early.  I do not digest badly.  What is wrong?

The calamity of my case is that I am in danger of betraying what is wrong with me to others,
without knowing it myself.  Some woman will be suspecting and tattling, because she has nothing
else to do.  Girls have wonderfully shrewd eyes for a weakness in the sex which they are instructed
to look upon as superior.  But I am on my guard.

The fact is manifest: I feel I have been living more or less uselessly. It is a fat time. 
There are a certain set of men in every prosperous country who, having wherewithal, and not
being compelled to toil, become subjected to the moral ideal.  Most of them in the end sit
down with our sixth Henry or second Richard and philosophise on shepherds.  To be no better
than a simple hind!  Am I better?  Prime bacon and an occasional draft of shrewd beer content
him, and they do not me.  Yet I am sound, and can sit through the night and be ready, and on
the morrow I shall stand for the county.

I made the announcement that I had thoughts of entering Parliament, before I had half formed
the determination, at my sister's lawn party yesterday.

'Gilbert!' she cried, and raised her hands.  A woman is hurt if you do not confide to her your
plans as soon as you can conceive them.  She must be present to assist at the birth, or your
plans are unblessed plans.

I had been speaking aside in a casual manner to my friend Amble, whose idea is that the Church
is not represented with sufficient strength in the Commons, and who at once, as I perceived,
grasped the notion of getting me to promote sundry measures connected with schools and clerical
stipends, for his eyes dilated; he said: 'Well, if you do, I can put you up to several things,'
and imparting the usual chorus of yesses to his own mind, he continued absently: 'Pollingray
might be made strong on church rates.  There is much to do.  He has lived abroad and requires
schooling in these things.  We want a man.  Yes, yes, yes.  It's a good idea; a notion.'

My sister, however, was of another opinion.  She did me the honour to take me aside.

'Gilbert, were you serious just now?'

'Quite serious.  Is it not my characteristic?'

'Not on these occasions.  I saw the idea come suddenly upon you.  You were looking at Charles.'

'Continue: and at what was he looking?'

'He was looking at Alice Amble.'

'And the young lady?'

'She looked at you.'

I was here attacked by a singularly pertinacious fly, and came out of the contest with a laugh.

'Did she have that condescension towards me?  And from the glance, my resolution to enter Parliament
was born?  It is the French vaudevilliste's doctrine of great events from little causes.  The
slipper of a soubrette trips the heart of a king and changes the destiny of a nation-the history
of mankind.  It may be true.  If I were but shot into the House from a little girl's eye!'

With this I took her arm gaily, walked with her, and had nearly overreached myself with excess
of cunning.  I suppose we are reduced to see more plainly that which we systematically endeavour
to veil from others.  It is best to flutter a handkerchief, instead of nailing up a curtain.
The principal advantage is that you may thereby go on deceiving yourself, for this reason:
few sentiments are wholly matter of fact; but when they are half so, you make them concrete
by deliberately seeking either to crush or conceal them, and you are doubly betrayed--betrayed
to the besieging eye and to yourself.  When a sentiment has grown to be a passion (mercifully
may I be spared!) different tactics are required. By that time, you will have already betrayed
yourself too deeply to dare to be flippant: the investigating eye is aware that it has been
purposely diverted: knowing some things, it makes sure of the rest from which you turn it away.
If you want to hide a very grave case, you must speak gravely about it.--At which season, be
but sure of your voice, and simulate a certain depth of sentimental philosophy, and you may
once more, and for a long period, bewilder the investigator of the secrets of your bosom. 
To sum up: in the preliminary stages of a weakness, be careful that you do not show your own
alarm, or all will be suspected. Should the weakness turn to fever, let a little of it be seen,
like a careless man, and nothing will really be thought.

I can say this, I can do this; and is it still possible that a pin's point has got through
the joints of the armour of a man like me?

Elizabeth quitted my side with the conviction that I am as considerate an uncle as I am an
affectionate brother.

I said to her, apropos, 'I have been observing those two.  It seems to me they are deciding
things for themselves.'

'I have been going to speak to you about them Gilbert,' said she.

And I: 'The girl must be studied.  The family is good.  While Charles is in Wales, you must
have her at Dayton.  She laughs rather vacantly, don't you think?  but the sound of it has
the proper wholesome ring.  I will give her what attention I can while she is here, but in
the meantime I must have a bride of my own and commence courting.'

'Parliament, you mean,' said Elizabeth with a frank and tender smile. The hostess was summoned
to welcome a new guest, and she left me, pleased with her successful effort to reach my meaning,
and absorbed by it.

I would not have challenged Machiavelli; but I should not have encountered the Florentine ruefully.
I feel the same keen delight in intellectual dexterity.  On some points my sister is not a
bad match for me.  She can beat me seven games out of twelve at chess; but the five I win sequently,
for then I am awake.  There is natural art and artificial art, and the last beats the first.
Fortunately for us, women are strangers to the last.  They have had to throw off a mask before
they have, got the schooling; so, when they are thus armed we know what we meet, and what are
the weapons to be used.

Alice, if she is a fine fencer at all, will expect to meet the ordinary English squire in me.
I have seen her at the baptismal font!  It is inconceivable.  She will fancy that at least
she is ten times more subtle than I.  When I get the mastery--it is unlikely to make me the
master. What may happen is, that the nature of the girl will declare itself, under the hard
light of intimacy, vulgar.  Charles I cause to be absent for six weeks; so there will be time
enough for the probation.  I do not see him till he returns.  If by chance I had come earlier
to see him and he to allude to her, he would have had my conscience on his side, and that is
what a scrupulous man takes care to prevent.

I wonder whether my friends imagine me to be the same man whom they knew as Gilbert Pollingray
a month back?  I see the change, I feel the change; but I have no retrospection, no remorse,
no looking forward, no feeling: none for others, very little, for myself.  I am told that I
am losing fluency as a dinner-table talker.  There is now more savour to me in a silvery laugh
than in a spiced wit.  And this is the man who knows women, and is far too modest to give a
decided opinion upon any of their merits. Search myself through as I may, I cannot tell when
the change began, or what the change consists of, or what is the matter with me, or what charm
there is in the person who does the mischief.  She is the counterpart of dozens of girls; lively,
brown-eyed, brown-haired, underbred--it is not too harsh to say so--underbred slightly; half-educated,
whether quickwitted I dare not opine.  She is undoubtedly the last whom I or another person
would have fixed upon as one to work me this unmitigated evil.  I do not know her, and I believe
I do not care to know her, and I am thirsting for the hour to come when I shall study her.
Is not this to have the poison of a bite in one's blood?  The wrath of Venus is not a fable.
I was a hard reader and I despised the sex in my youth, before the family estates fell to me;
since when I have playfully admired the sex; I have dallied with a passion, and not read at
all, save for diversion: her anger is not a fable.  You may interpret many a mythic tale by
the facts which lie in your own blood.  My emotions have lain altogether dormant in sentimental
attachment.  I have, I suppose, boasted of, Python slain, and Cupid has touched me up with
an arrow.  I trust to my own skill rather than to his mercy for avoiding a second from his
quiver.  I will understand this girl if I have to submit to a close intimacy with her for six
months.  There is no doubt of the elegance of her movements.  Charles might as well take his
tour, and let us see him again next year.  Yes, her movements are (or will be) gracious.  In
a year's time she will have acquired the fuller tones and poetry of womanliness.  Perhaps then,
too, her smile will linger instead of flashing.  I have known infinitely lovelier women than
she.  One I have known! but let her be.  Louise and I have long since said adieu.

CHAPTER IV

SHE

Behold me installed in Dayton Manor House, and brought here for the express purpose (so Charles
has written me word) of my being studied, that it may be seen whether I am worthy to be, on
some august future occasion--possibly--a member (Oh, so much to mumble!) of this great family.
Had I known it when I was leaving home, I should have countermanded the cording of my boxes.
If you please, I do the packing, and not the cording.  I must practise being polite, or I shall
be horrifying these good people.

I am mortally offended.  I am very very angry.  I shall show temper. Indeed, I have shown it.
Mr. Pollingray must and does think me a goose. Dear sir, and I think you are justified.  If
any one pretends to guess how, I have names to suit that person.  I am a ninny, an ape, and
mind I call myself these bad things because I deserve worse.  I am flighty, I believe I am
heartless.  Charles is away, and I suffer no pangs. The truth is, I fancied myself so exceedingly
penetrating, and it was my vanity looking in a glass.  I saw something that answered to my
nods and howd'ye-do's and--but I am ashamed, and so penitent I might begin making a collection
of beetles.  I cannot lift up my head.

Mr. Pollingray is such a different man from the one I had imagined! What that one was, I have
now quite forgotten.  I remember too clearly what the wretched guesser was.  I have been three
weeks at Dayton, and if my sisters know me when I return to the vicarage, they are not foolish
virgins.  For my part, I know that I shall always hate Mrs. Romer Pattlecombe, and that I am
unjust to the good woman, but I do hate her, and I think the stories shocking, and wonder intensely
what it was that I could have found in them to laugh at.  I shall never laugh again for many
years.  Perhaps, when I am an old woman, I may.  I wish the time had come.  All young people
seem to me so helplessly silly.  I am one of them for the present, and have no hope that I
can appear to be anything else. The young are a crowd--a shoal of small fry.  Their elders
are the select of the world.

On the morning of the day when I was to leave home for Dayton, a distance of eight miles, I
looked out of my window while dressing--as early as halfpast seven--and I saw Mr. Pollingray's
groom on horseback, leading up and down the walk a darling little, round, plump, black cob
that made my heart leap with an immense bound of longing to be on it and away across the downs.
And then the maid came to my door with a letter:

'Mr. Pollingray, in return for her considerate good behaviour and saving of trouble to him
officially, begs his goddaughter to accept the accompanying little animal: height 14 h., age
31 years; hunts, is sure- footed, and likely to be the best jumper in the county.'

I flew downstairs.  I rushed out of the house and up to my treasure, and kissed his nose and
stroked his mane.  I could not get my fingers away from him.  Horses are so like the very best
and beautifullest of women when you caress them.  They show their pleasure so at being petted.
They curve their necks, and paw, and look proud.  They take your flattery like sunshine and
are lovely in it.  I kissed my beauty, peering at his black- mottled skin, which is like Allingborough
Heath in the twilight.  The smell of his new saddle and bridle-leather was sweeter than a garden
to me.  The man handed me a large riding-whip mounted with silver.  I longed to jump up and
ride till midnight.

Then mama and papa came out and read the note and looked, at my darling little cob, and my
sisters saw him and kissed me, for they are not envious girls.  The most distressing thing
was that we had not a riding- habit in the family.  I was ready to wear any sort.  I would
have ridden as a guy rather than not ride at all.  But mama gave me a promise that in two days
a riding-habit should be sent on to Dayton, and I had to let my pet be led back from where
he came. 

The visit of the Royal Sites is a matter of interest to all foreigners. I promised later visited the
Escorial and La Granja, but did not believe that Brown and other properties the ruling family,
adjacent to Madrid, deserving particular study. I thought Aranjuez require preference, more especially
as, having been there in a railroad train, felt the attractiveness of the curious this enchanting
oasis. On the other hand, had announced a major bull run in the plaza of that small town, and
I wanted keenly know this show unique and characteristic, which differs from both bulls games
in Spanish-Colombia. Truth is that neither the Tato, or Cuchares or another of the princes of
the Aranjuez bullfighting should work, but was announced as king of the party such a Pepete,
sword of the second order not without reputation.

Thousands of people from all conditions were grouped into the railroad station to go to the
bullfight. Everything contributed to seduce the locals: Bulls, the thousand beauties Real site,
which produces almost fantastic pleasure flight in rail, and even new to convert to Aranjuez in
Madrid Versailles. The train passed and the seat cushions reached. To achieve first-class wagons
had to arrange a quotation from sixteen passengers, lest it sour spending time in the second
and third cars. I confess that I felt, because he wanted to take my darkness in Spain to slip
between the common people, accepting all setback, to know a little change of the nature of the
classes lower calls. But I went with a distinguished Spanish writer, which by dint of Spanish
was very gallant, and as he had seen a beautiful blue-eyed Madrid head blonde, capable of seducing
the most sane, it was necessary to drift trailer.

That fact made me once again confirm the inaccuracy of the famous physiological rule: similia
similibus ... which is also a principle of chemistry. Perhaps there is truth in that, in some
situations, but in general, but I have not seen the mysterious chemical contrasts affections. My
partner was a Catalan-blooded and edging Democrat, while Fairy wagon that we were going was
a blonde British appearance, nothing less and daughter that of a writer to absolutist fist.

The
conversation is initiated with exquisite warmth and among old friends.

This is always in Spain, especially in public places. I must say with pleasure that I have nothing
but fond memories of the numerous friends of coffee, theater, wagon, diligence, etc., which harvested
in Spain, friends of one hour, anonymous, they are lost forever a moment later, but leave good
memories for the kindness obsequious in their manners and goodwill that give the traveler any reports
requested.

In honor of my friend for a ride and to do justice to his eloquence, I remember a circumstances.
Shortly after the departure of the train, when the conversation was walking through the passes of gallantry
concealed, the blonde lady like a queen who abdicates his crown on a whim, stated that he hated marriage
and would never marry, and that, not by hatred of men but .... (Oddly enough the daughter of
an absolutist!) For the love of freedom. The Catalan poet Heat beat the gap. When we descended
from the wagon in Aranjuez, the rebel was beautiful ... or seemed to become pregnant, but the
poet preacher had not given even one step beyond the way of compliments. The same day in my
beard preached the same sermon to others inveterate three or four times, with admirable gallantry
spirited.

The opulent Aranjuez valley formed by the lifting of some hills in the great plain who has the Tagus
hydrographic center, collects the waters of this river and the Jarama whose convergence is checked
at a short distance from the city of Aranjuez, which is 49 miles Madrid. Not without reason
can call the valley the garden of Madrid, it is distinguished by the abundance and excellence
of its fruits and vegetables. In Spain the classic land of strawberries and asparagus is Aranjuez.
Its industry is very small, and very little agriculture importance if we are to judge by the few
vineyards and olive groves a few tiny hills contour. Best of Aranjuez is its forests, gardens,
palaces and her offspring, all of which belongs to the "real estate".

The population is only a little over 5,000 inhabitants, a figure that usually double during Spring
by the invasion of those seeking the delights of the countryside. New town and court, Aranjuez
is distinguished by the ability of their homes, and runs very wide
streets to string and cut at right angles. Is between the city and
the Tagus which extends the most splendid gardens and parks of Real-site.
  Mr. Pollingray prefers France.  All his asociations, I may say his sympathies, are in
France.  Latterly he seems to have changed a little; but from Normandy to Touraine and Dauphiny--we
had a triangular home over there.  Indeed, we have it still.  I am never certain of my brother.'

While Miss Pollingray was speaking, my eyes were fixed on a Vidal crayon drawing, faintly coloured
with chalks, of a foreign lady--I could have sworn to her being French--young, quite girlish,
I doubt if her age was more than mine.

She is pretty, is she not?' said Miss Pollingray.

She is almost beautiful,' I exclaimed, and Miss Pollingray, seeing my curiosity, was kind enough
not to keep me in suspense.

'That is the Marquise de Mazardouin--nee Louise de Riverolles.  You will see other portraits
of her in the house.  This is the most youthful of them, if I except one representing a baby,
and bearing her initials.'

I remembered having noticed a similarity of feature in some of the portraits in the different
rooms.  My longing to look at them again was like a sudden jet of flame within me.  There was
no chance of seeing them till morning; so, promising myself to dream of the face before me,
I dozed through a conversation with my hostess, until I had got the French lady's eyes and
hair and general outline stamped accurately, as I hoped, on my mind.  I was no sooner on my
way to bed than all had faded. The torment of trying to conjure up that face was inconceivable.
I lay, and tossed, and turned to right and to left, and scattered my sleep; but by and by my
thoughts reverted to Mr. Pollingray, and then like sympathetic ink held to the heat, I beheld
her again; but vividly, as she must have been when she was sitting to the artist.  The hair
was naturally crisped, waving thrice over the forehead and brushed clean from the temples,
showing the small ears, and tied in a knot loosely behind. Her eyebrows were thick and dark,
but soft; flowing eyebrows; far lovelier, to my thinking, than any pencilled arch.  Dark eyes,
and full, not prominent.  I find little expression of inward sentiment in very prominent eyes.
On the contrary they seem to have a fish-like dependency of gaze on what is without, and show
fishy depths, if any.  For instance, my eyes are rather prominent, and I am just the little
fool--but the French lady is my theme.  Madame la Marquise, your eyes are sweeter to me than
celestial.  I never saw such candour and unaffected innocence in eyes before.  Accept the compliment
of the pauvre Anglaise.  Did you do mischief with them?  Did Vidal's delicate sketch do justice
to you?  Your lips and chin and your throat all repose in such girlish grace, that if ever
it is my good fortune to see you, you will not be aged to me!

I slept and dreamed of her.

In the morning, I felt certain that she had often said: 'Mon cher Gilbert,' to Mr. Pollingray.
Had he ever said: 'Ma chere Louise?' He might have said: 'Ma bien aimee!' for it was a face
to be loved.

My change of feeling towards him dates from that morning.  He had previously seemed to me a
man so much older.  I perceived in him now a youthfulness beyond mere vigour of frame.  I could
not detach him from my dreams of the night.  He insists upon addressing me by the terms of
our 'official' relationship, as if he made it a principle of our intercourse.

'Well, and is your godpapa to congratulate you on your having had a quiet rest?' was his greeting.

I answered stupidly: 'Oh, yes, thank you,' and would have given worlds for the courage to reply
in French, but I distrusted my accent.  At breakfast, the opportunity or rather the excuse
for an attempt, was offered.  His French valet, Francois, waits on him at breakfast.  Mr. Pollingray
and his sister asked for things in the French tongue, and, as if fearing some breach of civility,
Mr. Pollingray asked me if I knew French.

Yes, I know it; that is, I understand it,' I stuttered.  Allons, nous parlerons francais,'
said he.  But I shook my head, and remained like a silly mute.

I was induced towards the close of the meal to come out with a few French words.  I was utterly
shamefaced.  Mr. Pollingray has got the French manner of protesting that one is all but perfect
in one's speaking.  I know how absurd it must have sounded.  But I felt his kindness, and in
my heart I thanked him humbly.  I believe now that a residence in France does not deteriorate
an Englishman.  Mr. Pollingray, when in his own house, has the best qualities of the two countries.
He is gay, and, yes, while he makes a study of me, I am making a study of him.  Which of us
two will know the other first?  He was papa's college friend--papa's junior, of course, and
infinitely more papa's junior now.  I observe that weakness in him, I mean, his clinging to
youthfulness, less and less; but I do see it, I cannot be quite in error.  The truth is, I
begin to feel that I cannot venture to mistrust my infallible judgement, or I shall have no
confidence in myself at all. Everything discussed in the coffee: the mysteries of the Court, the Government's conduct
and Chambers, the manifestations of the press, causes and noisy sentences, large scandals, international
events and the glorious victories of the writer and the bullfighter, the speaker and the songstress.
Depth discussions, perorations eloquent and gallant, chronic scandalous, frivolous and great
things, delusions and light business, and still loves terrible burning and stirred passions
in this sanctuary bustling and essentially democratic. Those who have not studied a little cafe in
Madrid and Barcelona, ​​Seville and Cadiz, not know one of the most marked phases of Spanish society.

For
the rest, coffee is not for the Spanish but an element of association,
since apart to be very sober they have no taste for coffee or drink
know.

What is milk made very very slightly sweetened with brown dye, and have a fancy to drink in
a glass glass, to keep warm. They are not power but in terms chocolate and wine. Are averse
to bitter coffee, as it revels in the oil rancid. Everyone has their tastes and that there is
no dispute.

After these quick observations, a word more about Madrid political
and social Subject to insist upon it elsewhere.

As long as the friction with people of good company allowed me to learn the situation of the
middle class in Spain, I noticed several things: first, which left literate youth dominate
much of the trend towards metaphysics German, sterile in a country that, having no free discussion,
what you need is to receive a strong momentum in economic via stirring in a great movement that
occurs due to backlash moral regeneration. Second, that youth, all liberal, and tending towards
a single purpose - the progress - is in great disagreement, so strange quirk that Democrats and free-changers
or economists seem to be in antagonism. The talents seem divorced from each other dominated by absolutism
of ideas or systems that have a lot of scholastic.

I was humiliated and vexed.  All the while I was trying to lead up to the French lady, and
I could not commence with a single question.  He appears to, have really cancelled the past
in every respect save his calling me his goddaughter.  His talk was of the English poor, and
vegetation, and papa's goodness to his old dames in Ickleworth parish, and defects in my education
acknowledged by me, but not likely to restore me in my depressed state.  The ride was beautiful.
We went the length of a twelve-mile ridge between Ickleworth and Hillford, over high commons,
with immense views on both sides, and through beech-woods, oakwoods, and furzy dells and downs
spotted with juniper and yewtrees-- old picnic haunts of mine, but Mr. Pollingray's fresh delight
in the landscape made them seem new and strange.  Home through the valley.

The next day Miss Pollingray joined us, wearing a feutre gris and green plume, which looked
exceedingly odd until you became accustomed to it. 

This was the P. Joseph Tolu, who at seventy-five years of age increased from this work to eternal
rest in the village of San Rafael, to May 10, 1717.

To this holy man was born November 22, 1643 at Potager, instead of the island Sardinia, was
in the province received in the Company, having 21 years of age, to May 2, 1964 and he spent
74 years in this province, where he concluded that he lacked studies and received the sacred
orders, went to the Missions of the Guarani, where he lived for a
long time result of the Indians.

Here God would give to understand the many jobs he was ready to carve the crown of his merits, and
was as follows:

Had just one day to say mass, and as he retreated to his apartment to give thanks to Our Lord, he saw
in ecstasy, surrounded by a troop of strangers and also saw cultivating
the land himself with a hoe in hand, filled with all perspiration,
without any of those present, moved with pity, it is determined to
take the hands that rustic instrument and to help in that office.

Father was Joseph strangely amazed and dejected, not knowing what he meant was with the vision,
until shortly after passing the orders of superiors to the conversion of Chiriguaná met him in
the reduction of San Ignacio, where although there was a large crowd people, with all the talk that
his conversion was to preach to the stones, or as they say, in the desert, unable to reduce or even
just one of those stubborn, and still have a servant you attend on the altar, so he was obliged
to cultivate their hands a little garden, and the sweat of his brow pick something with which to
pass the life going in person to the forest to bring a bundle of
wood and the river for a pitcher of water, looking meanwhile those
Barbarians without moving to help.

I then remembered that, before the Lord had shown him, and so suffered with great value these
and other very serious discomfort as cruel barbarians, who laid the horses to graze in your
garden, to take in a moment the sweat from his face and work their hands. And through that land
be so difficult to grow and so hard to receive the seed of God's word, as though I worked very
very little fruit picking, yet that does not put his hands up the work until he was called superiors
to be operator at the College of Tarija, where he field in which
to exercise his zeal, with fewer jobs, but more fruit.  My French, I suppose.

I determined that, if he wanted to study me, I would help him.

'I can command myself when I choose, but it is only when I choose.'

This seemed to me quite a reasonable speech, until I found him looking for something to follow,
in explanation, and on coming to sift my meaning, I saw that it was temper, and getting more
angry, continued:

'The sort of young people who have such wonderful command of themselves are not the pleasantest.'

'No,' he said; 'they disappoint us.  We expect folly from the young.'

I shut my lips.  Prince Leboo knew that he must go, and a good gallop reconciled me to circumstances.
Then I was put to jumping little furzes and ditches, which one cannot pretend to do without
a fair appearance of gaiety; for, while you are running the risk of a tumble, you are compelled
to look cheerful and gay, at least, I am.  To fall frowning will never do.  I had no fall.
My gallant Leboo made my heart leap with love of him, though mill-stones were tied to it. 
I may be vexed when I begin, but I soon ride out a bad temper.  And he is mine!  I am certainly
inconstant to Charles, for I think of Leboo fifty times more.  Besides, there is no engagement
as yet between Charles and me.  I have first to be approved worthy by Mr. and Miss Pollingray:
two pairs of eyes and ears, over which I see a solemnly downy owl sitting, conning their reports
of me.  It is a very unkind ordeal to subject any inexperienced young woman to.  It was harshly
conceived and it is being remorselessly executed. I would complain more loudly--in shrieks--if
I could say I was unhappy; but every night I look out of my window before going to bed and
see the long falls of the infant river through the meadow, and the dark woods seeming to enclose
the house from harm: I dream of the old inhabitant, his ancestors, and the numbers and numbers
of springs when the wildflowers have flourished in those woods and the nightingales have sung
there.  And I feel there will never be a home to me like Dayton.

CHAPTER V

HE

For twenty years of my life I have embraced the phantom of the fairest woman that ever drew
breath. I have submitted to her whims, I have worshipped her feet, I have, I believe, strengthened
her principle. I have done all in my devotion but adopt her religious faith.  And I have, as
I trusted some time since, awakened to perceive that those twenty years were a period of mere
sentimental pastime, perfectly useless, fruitless, unless, as is possible, it has saved me
from other follies.  But it was a folly in itself.  Can one's nature be too stedfast?  The
question whether a spice of frivolousness may not be a safeguard has often risen before me.
The truth, I must learn to think, is, that my mental power is not the match for my ideal or
sentimental apprehension and native tenacity of attachment.  I have fallen into one of the
pits of a well-meaning but idle man.  The world discredits the existence of pure platonism
in love.  I myself can barely look back on those twenty years of amatory servility with a full
comprehension of the part I have been playing in them. Y effort
not to believe the unpleasant reality, it appeared evident in the new confessions. The narrator
writes:

"We need to believe.

Need to wait ... The more often we do not know, we need that we reveal to ourselves what we
are ... "

This idea no doubt was referring to the man standing near her, her stubborn insistence in the work
of destruction, hope, living even bend it, to make return having beliefs, as the Countess
went on in horror:

"I still hate, blood, fire! No, never, never be that way! ... How can a loving soul and talk?
He says that love is paid with love, hatred with hatred, that be fair but not generous. And those
who truly hate fighting "? Do not suffer They also have to resort to violence ?...»

It seemed, therefore, that the discord between the instinct of rebellion
of the Prince and preaching of peace by the Countess had preceded
the major disappointment, but at the time to recognize the futility
of his own efforts, is not she should have suspected that the man
did not had been sincere in ensuring that his love had come to believe?

And such a suspicion should not hurt, not only in their beliefs, but even in their hopes?
She did not speak of the fate of his love. "He kept it quiet because
he urged more appease the rebels to ensure his own happiness?  The Marquis de Mazardouin is at last tasting
of his mortality.  I bear in mind the day when he married her.  She says that he has taken
to priestly counsel, and, like a woman, she praises him for that.  It is the one thing which
I have not done to please her.  She anticipates his decease.  Should she be free-- what then?
My heart does not beat the faster for the thought.  There are twenty years upon it, and they
make a great load.  But I have a desire that she should come over to us.  The old folly might
rescue me from the new one.  Not that I am any further persecuted by the dread that I am in
imminent danger here.  I have established a proper mastery over my young lady.  'Nous avons
change de role'.  Alice is subdued; she laughs feebly, is becoming conscious--a fact to be
regretted, if I desired to check the creature's growth.  There is vast capacity in the girl.
She has plainly not centred her affections upon Charles, so that a man's conscience might be
at ease if--if he chose to disregard what is due to decency.  But, why, when I contest it,
do I bow to the world's opinion concerning disparity of years between husband and wife?  I
know innumerable cases of an old husband making a young wife happy.  My friend, Dr. Galliot,
married his ward, and he had the best wife of any man of my acquaintance. She has been publishing
his learned manuscripts ever since his death. That is an extreme case, for he was forty-five
years her senior, and stood bald at the altar.  Old General Althorpe married Julia Dahoop,
and, but for his preposterous jealousy of her, might be cited in proof that the ordinary reckonings
are not to be a yoke on the neck of one who earnestly seeks to spouse a fitting mate, though
late in life.  But, what are fifty years?  They mark the prime of a healthy man's existence.
He has by that time seen the world, can decide, and settle, and is virtually more eligible--to
use the cant phrase of gossips--than a young man, even for a young girl.  And may not some
fair and fresh reward be justly claimed as the crown of a virtuous career?

I say all this, yet my real feeling is as if I were bald as Dr. Galliot and jealous as General
Althorpe.  For, with my thorough knowledge of myself, I, were I like either one of them, should
not have offered myself to the mercy of a young woman, or of the world. It's amazing the interest that the show wakes up, giving rise to the advantageous
speculation made by resellers of tickets. Your gain is often fifty percent and sometimes much
higher, when the first Matador is a sword or of the great art notables, princes of the heroic
butchery.

Not making a complete description of the bullfight. No traveler and writer eminent customs boasted
that no matter your skill description: at same if I try to imitate them, or my description would
be pale and mediocre, or to interest much would that be plagiarism. So, I confine myself to
the comments referred to the most salient features of that vigorous
and original drama.

In Colombia, thank God, the bulls are not a permanent institution. Each year, for the feast of
the saint-patron, or the anniversary of independence, there are public rejoicing, essentially
democratic, lasting from three to eight days. During that time, none in the city ​​and the people
have other occupation than that of fun, except those who speculate the fun, having fun and doing
business at the same time. There, the holidays are a set curious bullfights, dances, field trips,
drama, raffles and games patriotic songs, banquets and picnics, concerts, exhibitions, rants,
etc.., etc. But it's all popular and the public, everything is free, passenger, and like all original
passenger, passionate and feverish. Spend the holidays, it starts the last stake of the barriers
and balconies makeshift bullring, and there is no trace of the noisy and varied scene. Until
next year, at the same time, it becomes to think about it. In addition, it has not or horse-Torunos
no casualties in the square, and it is rare that dead men tell or seriously injured, in spite
of the disorder which presides over the runs and the wonders of brandy,
liquor chicha and other streams running to the thousands of throats.

In Spain, the bulls are a chronic drama. Each city has its permanent place, species heterogeneous
gladiatorial circus (a horned and polled other), and the station bull runs from almost the beginning
of spring until late autumn. Winter dispersed to the bullfighters
and gives respite to older horses and bulls. The classic capital of
bullfighting are Madrid, Seville, Valencia and Barcelona.  She reciprocated his passion.  If
he would have consented to abjure his religion and worship with her, Madame de Riverolles,
her mother, would have listened to her entreaties.  But Gilbert was firm.  Mr. Pollingray,
I mean, refused to abandon his faith. Her mother, consequently, did not interfere, and Monsieur
de Riverolles, her father, gave her to the Marquis de Marzardouin, a roue young nobleman, immensely
rich, and shockingly dissipated.  And she married him.  No, I cannot understand French girls.
Do as I will, it is quite incomprehensible to me how Louise, loving another, could suffer herself
to be decked out in bridal finery and go to the altar and take the marriage oaths.  Not if
perdition had threatened would I have submitted. I have a feeling that Mr. Pollingray should
have shown at least one year's resentment at such conduct; and yet I admire him for his immediate
generous forgiveness of her.  It was fatherly.  She was married at sixteen.  His forgiveness
was the fruit of his few years' seniority, said Miss Pollingray, whose opinion of the Marquise
I cannot arrive at. At any rate, they have been true and warm friends ever since, constantly
together interchangeing visits.  That is why Mr. Pollingray has been more French than English
for those long years.

Miss Pollingray concluded by asking me what I thought of the story.  I said: 'It is very strange
French habits are so different from ours.  I dare say .  .  .  I hope .  .  , perhaps .  .
.  indeed, Mr. Pollingray seems happy now.'  Her idea of my wits must be that they are of the
schoolgirl order--a perfect receptacle for indefinite impressions.

'Ah!' said she.  'Gilbert has burnt his heart to ashes by this time.'

I slept with that sentence in my brain.  In the morning, I rose and dressed, dreaming.  As
I was turning the handle of my door to go down to breakfast, suddenly I swung round in a fit
of tears.  It was so piteous to think that he should have waited by her twenty years in a slow
anguish, his heart burning out, without a reproach or a complaint.  I saw him, I still see
him, like a martyr.

'Some people,' Miss Pollingray said, I permitted themselves to think evil of my brother's assiduous
devotion to a married woman. 

The Fathers, seeing that it was necessary then use gravity to bring down the pride of that
Minister of the devil, he replied that they had to go, but he had to come where they were. At
last he did so. He came where were the parents, they received him seated. Say what the other two
major had said before, I did not want Padres on their land, because the Parents are their children
die and other such nonsense, adopted by all the people, arming and grime all but one of the principal
who had now been before and was half in doubt.

At this time other people came away the killer's brother Albert with twelve or Thirteen of his
men, who with his persuasions confirmed the people in their resolution.
  The letter, as I found afterwards,
told me that Charles has received an order from his uncle to go over to Mr. Pollingray's estate
in Dauphiny on business.  I am not sorry that they should have supposed I was silly enough
to cry at the thought of Charles's crossing the Channel.  They did imagine it, I know; for
by and by Miss Pollingray whispered: 'Les absents n'auront pas tort, cette fois, n'est-ce-pas?
'And Mr. Pollingray was cruelly gentle: an air of 'I would not intrude on such emotions'; and
I heightened their delusions as much as I could: there was no other way of accounting for my
pantomime face.  Why should he fancy I suffered so terribly?  He talked with an excited cheerfulness
meant to relieve me, of course, but there was no justification for his deeming me a love-sick
kind of woe-begone ballad girl. The first time you decide, then, the reputation and
the fate of the bull, not worth it to rehabilitate their actions in the opinion of value, if
you start to have a surprise or fear. Such is the fate of men too.  The effort to restrain myself made me like an icicle.  Oh! adieu, mon parrain!

