That Pocahontas was a gentle-hearted and pleasing girl, and, through her acquaintance with
Smith, friendly to the whites, there is no doubt; that she was not different in her habits
and mode of life from other Indian girls, before the time of her kidnapping, there is every
reason to suppose. It was the English who magnified the imperialism of her father, and exaggerated
her own station as Princess. She certainly put on no airs of royalty when she was "cart-wheeling"
about the fort. Nor does this detract anything from the native dignity of the mature, and converted,
and partially civilized woman.

We should expect there would be the discrepancies which have been noticed in the estimates
of her age. Powhatan is not said to have kept a private secretary to register births in his
family. If Pocahontas gave her age correctly, as it appears upon her London portrait in 1616,
aged twenty-one, she must have been eighteen years of age when she was captured in 1613 This
would make her about twelve at the time of Smith's captivity in 1607-8. There is certainly
room for difference of opinion as to whether so precocious a woman, as her intelligent apprehension
of affairs shows her to have been, should have remained unmarried till the age of eighteen.
In marrying at least as early as that she would have followed the custom of her tribe. It is
possible that her intercourse with the whites had raised her above such an alliance as would
be offered her at the court of Werowocomoco.

We are without any record of the life of Pocahontas for some years. The occasional mentions
of her name in the "General Historie" are so evidently interpolated at a late date, that they
do not aid us. When and where she took the name of Matoaka, which appears upon her London portrait,
we are not told, nor when she was called Amonata, as Strachey says she was "at more ripe yeares."
How she was occupied from the departure of Smith to her abduction, we can only guess. To follow
her authentic history we must take up the account of Captain Argall and of Ralph Hamor, Jr.,
secretary of the colony under Governor Dale.

Captain Argall, who seems to have been as bold as he was unscrupulous in the execution of any
plan intrusted to him, arrived in Virginia in September, 1612, and early in the spring of 1613
he was sent on an expedition up the Patowomek to trade for corn and to effect a capture that
would bring Powhatan to terms. The Emperor, from being a friend, had become the most implacable
enemy of the English. Captain Argall says: "I was told by certain Indians, my friends, that
the great Powhatan's daughter Pokahuntis was with the great King Potowomek, whither I presently
repaired, resolved to possess myself of her by any stratagem that I could use, for the ransoming
of so many Englishmen as were prisoners with Powhatan, as also to get such armes and tooles
as he and other Indians had got by murther and stealing some others of our nation, with some
quantity of corn for the colonies relief."

By the aid of Japazeus, King of Pasptancy, an old acquaintance and friend of Argall's, and
the connivance of the King of Potowomek, Pocahontas was enticed on board Argall's ship and
secured. Word was sent to Powhatan of the capture and the terms on which his daughter would
be released; namely, the return of the white men he held in slavery, the tools and arms he
had gotten and stolen, and a great quantity of corn. Powhatan, "much grieved," replied that
if Argall would use his daughter well, and bring the ship into his river and release her, he
would accede to all his demands. Therefore, on the 13th of April, Argall repaired to Governor
Gates at Jamestown, and delivered his prisoner, and a few days after the King sent home some
of the white captives, three pieces, one broad-axe, a long whip-saw, and a canoe of corn. Pocahontas,
however, was kept at Jamestown.

Why Pocahontas had left Werowocomoco and gone to stay with Patowomek we can only conjecture.
It is possible that Powhatan suspected her friendliness to the whites, and was weary of her
importunity, and it may be that she wanted to escape the sight of continual fighting, ambushes,
and murders. More likely she was only making a common friendly visit, though Hamor says she
went to trade at an Indian fair.

The story of her capture is enlarged and more minutely related by Ralph Hamor, Jr., who was
one of the colony shipwrecked on the Bermudas in 1609, and returned to England in 1614, where
he published (London, 1615) "A True Discourse of Virginia, and the Success of the Affairs there
till the 18th of June, 1614." Hamor was the son of a merchant tailor in London who was a member
of the Virginia company. Hamor writes:

"It chanced Powhatan's delight and darling, his daughter Pocahuntas (whose fame has even been
spread in England by the title of Nonparella of Firginia) in her princely progresse if I may
so terme it, tooke some pleasure (in the absence of Captaine Argall) to be among her friends
at Pataomecke (as it seemeth by the relation I had), implored thither as shopkeeper to a Fare,
to exchange some of her father's commodities for theirs, where residing some three months or
longer, it fortuned upon occasion either of promise or profit, Captaine Argall to arrive there,
whom Pocahuntas, desirous to renew her familiaritie with the English, and delighting to see
them as unknown, fearefull perhaps to be surprised, would gladly visit as she did, of whom
no sooner had Captaine Argall intelligence, but he delt with an old friend Iapazeus, how and
by what meanes he might procure her caption, assuring him that now or never, was the time to
pleasure him, if he intended indeede that love which he had made profession of, that in ransome
of hir he might redeeme some of our English men and armes, now in the possession of her father,
promising to use her withall faire and gentle entreaty; Iapazeus well assured that his brother,
as he promised, would use her courteously, promised his best endeavors and service to accomplish
his desire, and thus wrought it, making his wife an instrument (which sex have ever been most
powerful in beguiling inticements) to effect his plot which hee had thus laid, he agreed that
himself, his wife and Pocahuntas, would accompanie his brother to the water side, whither come,
his wife should faine a great and longing desire to goe aboorde, and see the shippe, which
being there three or four times before she had never seene, and should be earnest with her
husband to permit her--he seemed angry with her, making as he pretended so unnecessary request,
especially being without the company of women, which denial she taking unkindly, must faine
to weepe (as who knows not that women can command teares) whereupon her husband seeming to
pitty those counterfeit teares, gave her leave to goe aboord, so that it would pleese Pocahuntas
to accompany her; now was the greatest labour to win her, guilty perhaps of her father's wrongs,
though not knowne as she supposed, to goe with her, yet by her earnest persuasions, she assented:
so forthwith aboord they went, the best cheere that could be made was seasonably provided,
to supper they went, merry on all hands, especially Iapazeus and his wife, who to expres their
joy would ere be treading upon Captaine Argall's foot, as who should say tis don, she is your
own. Supper ended Pocahuntas was lodged in the gunner's roome, but Iapazeus and his wife desired
to have some conference with their brother, which was onely to acquaint him by what stratagem
they had betraied his prisoner as I have already related: after which discourse to sleepe they
went, Pocahuntas nothing mistrusting this policy, who nevertheless being most possessed with
feere, and desire of returne, was first up, and hastened Iapazeus to be gon. Capt. Argall having
secretly well rewarded him, with a small Copper kittle, and some other les valuable toies so
highly by him esteemed, that doubtlesse he would have betraied his own father for them, permitted
both him and his wife to returne, but told him that for divers considerations, as for that
his father had then eigh [8] of our Englishe men, many swords, peeces, and other tooles, which
he hid at severall times by trecherous murdering our men, taken from them which though of no
use to him, he would not redeliver, he would reserve Pocahuntas, whereat she began to be exceeding
pensive, and discontented, yet ignorant of the dealing of Japazeus who in outward appearance
was no les discontented that he should be the meanes of her captivity, much adoe there was
to pursuade her to be patient, which with extraordinary curteous usage, by little and little
was wrought in her, and so to Jamestowne she was brought."

Smith, who condenses this account in his "General Historie," expresses his contempt of this
Indian treachery by saying: "The old Jew and his wife began to howle and crie as fast as Pocahuntas."
It will be noted that the account of the visit (apparently alone) of Pocahontas and her capture
is strong evidence that she was not at this time married to "Kocoum" or anybody else.

Word was despatched to Powhatan of his daughter's duress, with a demand made for the restitution
of goods; but although this savage is represented as dearly loving Pocahontas, his "delight
and darling," it was, according to Hamor, three months before they heard anything from him.
His anxiety about his daughter could not have been intense. He retained a part of his plunder,
and a message was sent to him that Pocahontas would be kept till he restored all the arms.

This answer pleased Powhatan so little that they heard nothing from him till the following
March. Then Sir Thomas Dale and Captain Argall, with several vessels and one hundred and fifty
men, went up to Powhatan's chief seat, taking his daughter with them, offering the Indians
a chance to fight for her or to take her in peace on surrender of the stolen goods. The Indians
received this with bravado and flights of arrows, reminding them of the fate of Captain Ratcliffe.
The whites landed, killed some Indians, burnt forty houses, pillaged the village, and went
on up the river and came to anchor in front of Matchcot, the Emperor's chief town. Here were
assembled four hundred armed men, with bows and arrows, who dared them to come ashore. Ashore
they went, and a palaver was held. The Indians wanted a day to consult their King, after which
they would fight, if nothing but blood would satisfy the whites.

Two of Powhatan's sons who were present expressed a desire to see their sister, who had been
taken on shore. When they had sight of her, and saw how well she was cared for, they greatly
rejoiced and promised to persuade their father to redeem her and conclude a lasting peace.
The two brothers were taken on board ship, and Master John Rolfe and Master Sparkes were sent
to negotiate with the King. Powhatan did not show himself, but his brother Apachamo, his successor,
promised to use his best efforts to bring about a peace, and the expedition returned to Jamestown.

"Long before this time," Hamor relates, "a gentleman of approved behaviour and honest carriage,
Master John Rolfe, had been in love with Pocahuntas and she with him, which thing at the instant
that we were in parlee with them, myselfe made known to Sir Thomas Dale, by a letter from him
[Rolfe] whereby he entreated his advice and furtherance to his love, if so it seemed fit to
him for the good of the Plantation, and Pocahuntas herself acquainted her brethren therewith."
Governor Dale approved this, and consequently was willing to retire without other conditions.
"The bruite of this pretended marriage [Hamor continues] came soon to Powhatan's knowledge,
a thing acceptable to him, as appeared by his sudden consent thereunto, who some ten daies
after sent an old uncle of hirs, named Opachisco, to give her as his deputy in the church,
and two of his sonnes to see the mariage solemnized which was accordingly done about the fifth
of April [1614], and ever since we have had friendly commerce and trade, not only with Powhatan
himself, but also with his subjects round about us; so as now I see no reason why the collonie
should not thrive a pace."

This marriage was justly celebrated as the means and beginning of a firm peace which long continued,
so that Pocahontas was again entitled to the grateful remembrance of the Virginia settlers.
Already, in 1612, a plan had been mooted in Virginia of marrying the English with the natives,
and of obtaining the recognition of Powhatan and those allied to him as members of a fifth
kingdom, with certain privileges. Cunega, the Spanish ambassador at London, on September 22,
1612, writes: "Although some suppose the plantation to decrease, he is credibly informed that
there is a determination to marry some of the people that go over to Virginia; forty or fifty
are already so married, and English women intermingle and are received kindly by the natives.
A zealous minister hath been wounded for reprehending it."

Mr. John Rolfe was a man of industry, and apparently devoted to the welfare of the colony.
He probably brought with him in 1610 his wife, who gave birth to his daughter Bermuda, born
on the Somers Islands at the time of the shipwreck. We find no notice of her death. Hamor gives
him the distinction of being the first in the colony to try, in 1612, the planting and raising
of tobacco. "No man [he adds] hath labored to his power, by good example there and worthy encouragement
into England by his letters, than he hath done, witness his marriage with Powhatan's daughter,
one of rude education, manners barbarous and cursed generation, meerely for the good and honor
of the plantation: and least any man should conceive that some sinister respects allured him
hereunto, I have made bold, contrary to his knowledge, in the end of my treatise to insert
the true coppie of his letter written to Sir Thomas Dale."

The letter is a long, labored, and curious document, and comes nearer to a theological treatise
than any love-letter we have on record. It reeks with unction. Why Rolfe did not speak to Dale,
whom he saw every day, instead of inflicting upon him this painful document, in which the flutterings
of a too susceptible widower's heart are hidden under a great resolve of self-sacrifice, is
not plain. To whom my heartie and best thoughts are, and have a long time bin so entangled,
and inthralled in so intricate a laborinth, that I was even awearied to unwinde myself thereout."

Master Rolfe goes on to describe the mighty war in his meditations on this subject, in which
he had set before his eyes the frailty of mankind and his proneness to evil and wicked thoughts.

The good man was desperately in love and wanted to marry the Indian, and consequently he got
no peace; and still being tormented with her image, whether she was absent or present, he set
out to produce an ingenious reason (to show the world) for marrying her. He continues:

"Thus when I thought I had obtained my peace and quietnesse, beholde another, but more gracious
tentation hath made breaches into my holiest and strongest meditations; with which I have been
put to a new triall, in a straighter manner than the former; for besides the weary passions
and sufferings which I have dailey, hourely, yea and in my sleepe indured, even awaking me
to astonishment, taxing me with remissnesse, and carelessnesse, refusing and neglecting to
perform the duteie of a good Christian, pulling me by the eare, and crying: Why dost thou not
indeavor to make her a Christian? And these have happened to my greater wonder, even when she
hath been furthest seperated from me, which in common reason (were it not an undoubted work
of God) might breede forgetfulnesse of a far more worthie creature."

He accurately describes the symptoms and appears to understand the remedy, but he is after
a large-sized motive:

"Besides, I say the holy Spirit of God hath often demanded of me, why I was created? If not
for transitory pleasures and worldly vanities, but to labour in the Lord's vineyard, there
to sow and plant, to nourish and increase the fruites thereof, daily adding with the good husband
in the gospell, somewhat to the tallent, that in the ends the fruites may be reaped, to the
comfort of the labourer in this life, and his salvation in the world to come.... Likewise,
adding hereunto her great appearance of love to me, her desire to be taught and instructed
in the knowledge of God, her capablenesse of understanding, her aptness and willingness to
receive anie good impression, and also the spirituall, besides her owne incitements stirring
me up hereunto."

The "incitements" gave him courage, so that he exclaims: "Shall I be of so untoward a disposition,
as to refuse to lead the blind into the right way? Shall I be so unnatural, as not to give
bread to the hungrie, or uncharitable, as not to cover the naked?"

It wasn't to be thought of, such wickedness; and so Master Rolfe screwed up his courage to
marry the glorious Princess, from whom thousands of people were afterwards so anxious to be
descended. But he made the sacrifice for the glory of the country, the benefit of the plantation,
and the conversion of the unregenerate, and other and lower motive he vigorously repels: "Now,
if the vulgar sort, who square all men's actions by the base rule of their own filthinesse,
shall tax or taunt mee in this my godly labour: let them know it is not hungry appetite, to
gorge myselfe with incontinency; sure (if I would and were so sensually inclined) I might satisfy
such desire, though not without a seared conscience, yet with Christians more pleasing to the
eie, and less fearefull in the offense unlawfully committed. Nor am I in so desperate an estate,
that I regard not what becometh of me; nor am I out of hope but one day to see my country,
nor so void of friends, nor mean in birth, but there to obtain a mach to my great con'tent....
But shall it please God thus to dispose of me (which I earnestly desire to fulfill my ends
before set down) I will heartily accept of it as a godly taxe appointed me, and I will never
cease (God assisting me) untill I have accomplished, and brought to perfection so holy a worke,
in which I will daily pray God to bless me, to mine and her eternal happiness."

It is to be hoped that if sanctimonious John wrote any love-letters to Amonata they had less
cant in them than this. But it was pleasing to Sir Thomas Dale, who was a man to appreciate
the high motives of Mr. Rolfe. In a letter which he despatched from Jamestown, June 18, 1614,
to a reverend friend in London, he describes the expedition when Pocahontas was carried up
the river, and adds the information that when she went on shore, "she would not talk to any
of them, scarcely to them of the best sort, and to them only, that if her father had loved
her, he would not value her less than old swords, pieces, or axes; wherefore she would still
dwell with the Englishmen who loved her." Her father and friends gave approbation to it, and
her uncle gave her to him in the church; she lives civilly and lovingly with him, and I trust
will increase in goodness, as the knowledge of God increaseth in her. She will goe into England
with me, and were it but the gayning of this one soule, I will think my time, toile, and present
stay well spent."

Hamor also appends to his narration a short letter, of the same date with the above, from the
minister Alexander Whittaker, the genuineness of which is questioned. In speaking of the good
deeds of Sir Thomas Dale it says: "But that which is best, one Pocahuntas or Matoa, the daughter
of Powhatan, is married to an honest and discreet English Gentleman--Master Rolfe, and that
after she had openly renounced her countrey Idolatry, and confessed the faith of Jesus Christ,
and was baptized, which thing Sir Thomas Dale had laboured a long time to ground her in." If,
as this proclaims, she was married after her conversion, then Rolfe's tender conscience must
have given him another twist for wedding her, when the reason for marrying her (her conversion)
had ceased with her baptism. His marriage, according to this, was a pure work of supererogation.
It took place about the 5th of April, 1614. It is not known who performed the ceremony.

How Pocahontas passed her time in Jamestown during the period of her detention, we are not
told. Conjectures are made that she was an inmate of the house of Sir Thomas Dale, or of that
of the Rev. Mr. Whittaker, both of whom labored zealously to enlighten her mind on religious
subjects. She must also have been learning English and civilized ways, for it is sure that
she spoke our language very well when she went to London. Mr. John Rolfe was also laboring
for her conversion, and we may suppose that with all these ministrations, mingled with her
love of Mr. Rolfe, which that ingenious widower had discovered, and her desire to convert him
into a husband, she was not an unwilling captive. Whatever may have been her barbarous instincts,
we have the testimony of Governor Dale that she lived "civilly and lovingly" with her husband.

STORY OF POCAHONTAS, CONTINUED

Sir Thomas Dale was on the whole the most efficient and discreet Governor the colony had had.
One element of his success was no doubt the change in the charter of 1609. By the first charter
everything had been held in common by the company, and there had been no division of property
or allotment of land among the colonists. Under the new regime land was held in severalty,
and the spur of individual interest began at once to improve the condition of the settlement.
The character of the colonists was also gradually improving. They had not been of a sort to
fulfill the earnest desire of the London promoter's to spread vital piety in the New World.
A zealous defense of Virginia and Maryland, against "scandalous imputation," entitled "Leah
and Rachel; or, The Two Fruitful Sisters," by Mr. John Hammond, London, 1656, considers the
charges that Virginia "is an unhealthy place, a nest of rogues, abandoned women, dissolut and
rookery persons; a place of intolerable labour, bad usage and hard diet"; and admits that "at
the first settling, and for many years after, it deserved most of these aspersions, nor were
they then aspersions but truths.... There were jails supplied, youth seduced, infamous women
drilled in, the provision all brought out of England, and that embezzled by the Trustees."

Governor Dale was a soldier; entering the army in the Netherlands as a private he had risen
to high position, and received knighthood in 1606. Shortly after he was with Sir Thomas Gates
in South Holland. The States General in 1611 granted him three years' term of absence in Virginia.
Upon his arrival he began to put in force that system of industry and frugality he had observed
in Holland. He had all the imperiousness of a soldier, and in an altercation with Captain Newport,
occasioned by some injurious remarks the latter made about Sir Thomas Smith, the treasurer,
he pulled his beard and threatened to hang him. Active operations for settling new plantations
were at once begun, and Dale wrote to Cecil, the Earl of Salisbury, for 2,000 good colonists
to be sent out, for the three hundred that came were "so profane, so riotous, so full of mutiny,
that not many are Christians but in name, their bodies so diseased and crazed that not sixty
of them may be employed." He served afterwards with credit in Holland, was made commander of
the East Indian fleet in 1618, had a naval engagement with the Dutch near Bantam in 1619, and
died in 1620 from the effects of the climate. He was twice married, and his second wife, Lady
Fanny, the cousin of his first wife, survived him and received a patent for a Virginia plantation.

Governor Dale kept steadily in view the conversion of the Indians to Christianity, and the
success of John Rolfe with Matoaka inspired him with a desire to convert another daughter of
Powhatan, of whose exquisite perfections he had heard. He therefore despatched Ralph Hamor,
with the English boy, Thomas Savage, as interpreter, on a mission to the court of Powhatan,
"upon a message unto him, which was to deale with him, if by any means I might procure a daughter
of his, who (Pocahuntas being already in our possession) is generally reported to be his delight
and darling, and surely he esteemed her as his owne Soule, for surer pledge of peace." This
visit Hamor relates with great naivete.

At his town of Matchcot, near the head of York River, Powhatan himself received his visitors
when they landed, with great cordiality, expressing much pleasure at seeing again the boy who
had been presented to him by Captain Newport, and whom he had not seen since he gave him leave
to go and see his friends at Jamestown four years before; he also inquired anxiously after
Namontack, whom he had sent to King James's land to see him and his country and report thereon,
and then led the way to his house, where he sat down on his bedstead side. "On each hand of
him was placed a comely and personable young woman, which they called his Queenes, the howse
within round about beset with them, the outside guarded with a hundred bowmen."

The first thing offered was a pipe of tobacco, which Powhatan "first drank," and then passed
to Hamor, who "drank" what he pleased and then returned it. The Emperor then inquired how his
brother Sir Thomas Dale fared, "and after that of his daughter's welfare, her marriage, his
unknown son, and how they liked, lived and loved together." Hamor replied "that his brother
was very well, and his daughter so well content that she would not change her life to return
and live with him, whereat he laughed heartily, and said he was very glad of it."

Powhatan then desired to know the cause of his unexpected coming, and Mr. Hamor said his message
was private, to be delivered to him without the presence of any except one of his councilors,
and one of the guides, who already knew it.

Therefore the house was cleared of all except the two Queens, who may never sequester themselves,
and Mr. Hamor began his palaver. First there was a message of love and inviolable peace, the
production of presents of coffee, beads, combs, fish-hooks, and knives, and the promise of
a grindstone when it pleased the Emperor to send for it. Hamor then proceeded:

"The bruite of the exquesite perfection of your youngest daughter, being famous through all
your territories, hath come to the hearing of your brother, Sir Thomas Dale, who for this purpose
hath addressed me hither, to intreate you by that brotherly friendship you make profession
of, to permit her (with me) to returne unto him, partly for the desire which himselfe hath,
and partly for the desire her sister hath to see her of whom, if fame hath not been prodigall,
as like enough it hath not, your brother (by your favour) would gladly make his nearest companion,
wife and bed fellow [many times he would have interrupted my speech, which I entreated him
to heare out, and then if he pleased to returne me answer], and the reason hereof is, because
being now friendly and firmly united together, and made one people [as he supposeth and believes]
in the bond of love, he would make a natural union between us, principally because himself
hath taken resolution to dwel in your country so long as he liveth, and would not only therefore
have the firmest assurance hee may, of perpetuall friendship from you, but also hereby binde
himselfe thereunto."

Powhatan replied with dignity that he gladly accepted the salute of love and peace, which he
and his subjects would exactly maintain. But as to the other matter he said: "My daughter,
whom my brother desireth, I sold within these three days to be wife to a great Weroance for
two bushels of Roanoke [a small kind of beads made of oyster shells], and it is true she is
already gone with him, three days' journey from me."

Hamor persisted that this marriage need not stand in the way; "that if he pleased herein to
gratify his Brother he might, restoring the Roanoke without the imputation of injustice, take
home his daughter again, the rather because she was not full twelve years old, and therefore
not marriageable; assuring him besides the bond of peace, so much the firmer, he should have
treble the price of his daughter in beads, copper, hatchets, and many other things more useful
for him."

The reply of the noble old savage to this infamous demand ought to have brought a blush to
the cheeks of those who made it. He said he loved his daughter as dearly as his life; he had
many children, but he delighted in none so much as in her; he could not live if he did not
see her often, as he would not if she were living with the whites, and he was determined not
to put himself in their hands. He desired no other assurance of friendship than his brother
had given him, who had already one of his daughters as a pledge, which was sufficient while
she lived; "when she dieth he shall have another child of mine." And then he broke forth in
pathetic eloquence: "I hold it not a brotherly part of your King, to desire to bereave me of
two of my children at once; further give him to understand, that if he had no pledge at all,
he should not need to distrust any injury from me, or any under my subjection; there have been
too many of his and my men killed, and by my occasion there shall never be more; I which have
power to perform it have said it; no not though I should have just occasion offered, for I
am now old and would gladly end my days in peace; so as if the English offer me any injury,
my country is large enough, I will remove myself farther from you."

The old man hospitably entertained his guests for a day or two, loaded them with presents,
among which were two dressed buckskins, white as snow, for his son and daughter, and, requesting
some articles sent him in return, bade them farewell with this message to Governor Dale: "I
hope this will give him good satisfaction, if it do not I will go three days' journey farther
from him, and never see Englishmen more." It speaks well for the temperate habits of this savage
that after he had feasted his guests, "he caused to be fetched a great glass of sack, some
three quarts or better, which Captain Newport had given him six or seven years since, carefully
preserved by him, not much above a pint in all this time spent, and gave each of us in a great
oyster shell some three spoonfuls."

We trust that Sir Thomas Dale gave a faithful account of all this to his wife in England.

Sir Thomas Gates left Virginia in the spring of 1614 and never returned. After his departure
scarcity and severity developed a mutiny, and six of the settlers were executed. Rolfe was
planting tobacco (he has the credit of being the first white planter of it), and his wife was
getting an inside view of Christian civilization.

In 1616 Sir Thomas Dale returned to England with his company and John Rolfe and Pocahontas,
and several other Indians. They reached Plymouth early in June, and on the 20th Lord Carew
made this note: "Sir Thomas Dale returned from Virginia; he hath brought divers men and women
of thatt countrye to be educated here, and one Rolfe who married a daughter of Pohetan (the
barbarous prince) called Pocahuntas, hath brought his wife with him into England." On the 22d
Sir John Chamberlain wrote to Sir Dudley Carlton that there were "ten or twelve, old and young,
of that country."

The Indian girls who came with Pocahontas appear to have been a great care to the London company.
In May, 1620, is a record that the company had to pay for physic and cordials for one of them
who had been living as a servant in Cheapside, and was very weak of a consumption. The same
year two other of the maids were shipped off to the Bermudas, after being long a charge to
the company, in the hope that they might there get husbands, "that after they were converted
and had children, they might be sent to their country and kindred to civilize them." One of
them was there married. The attempt to educate them in England was not very successful, and
a proposal to bring over Indian boys obtained this comment from Sir Edwin Sandys:

"Now to send for them into England, and to have them educated here, he found upon experience
of those brought by Sir Thomas Dale, might be far from the Christian work intended." One Nanamack,
a lad brought over by Lord Delaware, lived some years in houses where "he heard not much of
religion but sins, had many times examples of drinking, swearing and like evils, ran as he
was a mere Pagan," till he fell in with a devout family and changed his life, but died before
he was baptized. Accompanying Pocahontas was a councilor of Powhatan, one Tomocomo, the husband
of one of her sisters, of whom Purchas says in his "Pilgrimes": "With this savage I have often
conversed with my good friend Master Doctor Goldstone where he was a frequent geust, and where
I have seen him sing and dance his diabolical measures, and heard him discourse of his country
and religion.... Master Rolfe lent me a discourse which I have in my Pilgrimage delivered.
And his wife did not only accustom herself to civility, but still carried herself as the daughter
of a king, and was accordingly respected, not only by the Company which allowed provision for
herself and her son, but of divers particular persons of honor, in their hopeful zeal by her
to advance Christianity. I was present when my honorable and reverend patron, the Lord Bishop
of London, Doctor King, entertained her with festival state and pomp beyond what I had seen
in his great hospitality offered to other ladies. At her return towards Virginia she came at
Gravesend to her end and grave, having given great demonstration of her Christian sincerity,
as the first fruits of Virginia conversion, leaving here a goodly memory, and the hopes of
her resurrection, her soul aspiring to see and enjoy permanently in heaven what here she had
joyed to hear and believe of her blessed Saviour. Not such was Tomocomo, but a blasphemer of
what he knew not and preferring his God to ours because he taught them (by his own so appearing)
to wear their Devil-lock at the left ear; he acquainted me with the manner of that his appearance,
and believed that their Okee or Devil had taught them their husbandry."

