Late in the autumn came an event which should have troubed Jimmie Higgins more deeply than
it did. Along the Izonzo river the Italian armies were facing the Austrians, their hereditary
enemies; they were at the end of a long, exhaustive, and for the most part unsuccessful campaign,
and the Italian Socialists at home were carrying on precisely such a warfare against their
own government as Jimmie Higgins was carrying on in America. They were helped by the Catholic
intriguers, who hated the Italian government because it had destroyed the temporal power of
the Pope; they were helped by the subtle and persistent efforts of Austrian agents in their
country, who spread rumours among Italian troops of the friendly intentions of the Austrians,
and of the imminence of a truce. These agents went so far as to fake copies of the leading
Italian newspapers, with accounts of starvation and riots in the home cities, and the shooting
down of women and children. These papers were given out in the Italian trenches, before a certain
mountain-sector where the Austrian troops had been fraternizing with the Italians; and then,
during the night, the Austrian troops were withdrawn, and picked German "shock-troops" substituted,
which attacked at dawn and drove through the Italian lines, sweeping back the army along a
hundred-mile front, capturing some quarter of a million prisoners and a couple of thousand
cannon--practically all the Italians had.

That Jimmie Higgins did not pay more attention to this terrifying incident was in part because
he read it in the capitalist papers and did not believe it; but mainly because his whole attention
just now was centred on Russia, where the proletariat was about to make its bid for power.
Now you would see how wars were to be ended and peace restored to a distracted world!

The moderate Socialist government of Kerensky was pleading with the capitalist masters of the
Allied nations for a statement of their peace terms, so that the workers of Russia might know
what they were fighting for. The Russian workers wanted a declaration in favour of no annexations,
no indemnities, and disarmament; on such terms they would help fight the war, in spite of all
the starvation and suffering in distracted Russia. But the Allied statesmen would not make
any such declaration, and the Russian workers, backed by all the Socialists of the world, declared
that the reason was that these Allied statesmen were waging an imperialist war--they did not
intend to stop fighting until they had taken vast territories from the German powers, and exacted
a ransom that would cripple Germany for a generation. The Russian workers refused point-blank
to fight for such aims, and so in November came the second revolution, the uprising of the
Bolsheviki.

Almost their first action when they took possession of the palaces and government archives
was to publish to the world the secret treaties which the rulers of England, France and Italy
had made with Russia. These treaties formed a complete justification for the attitude of the
Russian revolutionists--they showed that the Allied imperialists had planned most shameless
plundering; England was to have the German colonies and Mesopotamia, France was to have German
territory to the Rhine, and Italy was to have the Adriatic coast, and to divide Palestine and
Syria with England and France.

And here was the most significant fact to Jimmie Higgins--these enormously important revelations,
the most important since the beginning of the war, were practically suppressed by the capitalist
newspapers of America! First these papers printed a brief item--the Bolsheviki had given out
what they claimed were secret treaties, but the genuineness of these documents was gravely
doubted. Then they published evasive and lying denials from the British, French and Italian
diplomats; and then they shut up! Not another word did you read about those secret treaties;
except for one or two American newspapers with traditions of honour, the full text of those
treaties was given in the Socialist press alone! "And now," cried Jimmie Higgins to the working
men in his shop, "what do you think of those wonderful allies of ours? What do you think of
those Wall Street newspapers of ours?" Could any working-man who had such facts put before
him fail to realize that Jimmie Higgins had a case, and a most important work in the world
to do, in spite of all his unreason and his narrowness?

II

Jimmie was now in the seventh heaven, walking as if on air. A proletarian government at last,
the first in history! A government of working-men like himself, running their own affairs,
without the help of politicians or bankers! Coming out before the world and telling the truth
about matters of state, in language that common men could understand! Disbanding the armies,
and sending the workers home! Turning the masters out of the factories, and putting shop-committees
in control! Taking away the advertising from the crooked capitalist papers, and so putting
them out of business! Our little friend would rush to the corner every morning to get the paper
and see what had happened next; he would go down the street so excited that he forgot his breakfast.

Jimmie had made a new acquaintance in Ironton; the little tailor, Rabin, whose name was Scholem,
which means Peace, had given him a letter to his brother, whose name was Deror, which means
Freedom. Each afternoon when the automobile factory let out, Jimmie would get an evening paper
and take it to Deror's tailor-shop and the two would spell out the news. By God, look at this!
Did you ever hear the like? The man in charge of the Bolshevik foreign office was a Marxian
Jew who had helped edit the Novy Mir, the revolutionary paper which Scholem had read to Jimmie!
He had been a waiter in the Waldorf-Astoria hotel, and now he was giving out the secret treaties,
and issuing propaganda manifestoes to the international proletariat.

The American capitalist press was full of lies about the new revolution, of course; but Jimmie
could read pretty well between the lines of the capitalist press, and the few Socialist papers
that were still in business, and which he read at the headquarters of the local, gave him the
rest of what he wanted. To Jimmie, of course, everything the Bolsheviki did was right; if it
wasn't right it was a lie. The little machinist knew that the Bolsheviki had repudiated the
four-billion-dollar debt which the government of the Tsar had contracted with the bankers of
France, and Jimmie knew perfectly well what was the lying power of four billion dollars.

The American papers were shocked because the Russian Socialists were deserting the cause of
democracy, and giving Germany a chance to win the war. The American papers called them German
agents, but Jimmie did not take any stock in such talk as this. Jimmie was familiar with the
"frame-up" as it is operated against the workers in America. He saw that the first thing the
Bolshevik leaders did was to make an appeal to the revolutionary workers of Germany. The Russian
proletariat had shown the way--now let the German proletariat follow! Literature was printed
and shipped wholesale into Germany, leaflets were dropped by aviators among the German troops;
and when Jimmie and Deror read that the German generals had protested to the Russians against
such practices, they laughed aloud with delight. Well might the war-lords squeal; they knew
what was coming to them! And when in January Jimmie and Deror read of the revolting of a brigade
of German troops, and a strike of several hundred thousand working men throughout Germany,
they thought the end was at hand. The little tailor got up in local Ironton and made a motion
that it take to itself the name "Bolshevik"--which motion was carried with a whoop. And these
American Bolsheviki went on to consult with the labour-unions, suggesting that they should
form "shop-committees", and prepare for the taking over of industry a la Russe!

III

But something went suddenly wrong with the newly built revolutionary steam-roller. The German
military chiefs seized their strike-leaders at home and threw them into jail, or shipped them
off to the front trenches to be slaughtered. By terrorism, shrewdly mixed with cajolery, they
broke the strike, and sent the grumbling slaves back to their treadmill. And then the German
armies began to march into Russia!

It was the crisis to which Jimmie Higgins had been looking forward ever since the war began.
Tolstoi had taught that if one nation refused to fight, it would be impossible for another
nation to invade it; and while Jimmie Higgins was no mystic or religious non-resistant, he
agreed in this with the great Russian. No workers in an enemy army could possibly be brought
to fire upon their peace-proclaiming brothers!

And here at last was the test of the theory; here were German Socialists ordered to march against
Russian Socialists--ordered to fire upon the red flag! Would they do what their masters, the
war-lords, commanded? Or would they listen to the clamorous appeals of the international proletariat,
and turn their guns against their own officers?

All the world saw what happened; it saw the glorious revolutionary machine, in which Jimmie
Higgins had put all his trust, run into a ditch and land its passengers in the mud. The German
armies marched, and the Socialists in the German armies did exactly what the non-Socialists
did--they fired upon the red flag, as they would have fired upon the flag of the Tsar. They
obeyed the orders of their officers, like true and loyal Germans; they drove back the Bolsheviki
in confusion, taking their guns and supplies, and destroying their cities; they led off the
Russian women and children into slavery, precisely as if they were Belgian or French women
and children, destined by the German Gott as the legitimate prey of Kultur. They sacked Riga
and Reval, they overran all the Eastern portions of Russia--Courland, Livonia, Esthonia; they
moved into the rich grain country of Southern Russia, the Ukraine; they landed from their ships
and took Finland, wiping out the liberties of that splendid people. They were at the gates
of Petrograd, and the Bolshevik government was forced to flee to Moscow. Of all which military
feats the German Socialist papers spoke with stern pride!

IV

Poor Jimmie Higgins! It was like the blow of a mighty fist in the face; he was literally stunned--it
was weeks before he could grasp the full meaning of what was happening, the debacle of all
his hopes. And it was the same with Ironton's Bolshevik local; all the "pep" was gone out of
its proceedings. To be sure, some noisy ones went on shouting for revolution the very next
day--men, who had been talking formulas for twenty or thirty years, and had no more notion
of a fact than they had of a pseudopodium. But the sensible men of the group knew that their
"St. Louis resolution" was being shot to death over there in the trenches before Petrograd.

It was interesting especially to see Rabin. The common belief of Americans was that a Jew could
not be induced to fight; they told a story about one who cried out to his son, asking why he
was letting another boy pummel him, and the son whispered in reply, "Keep still, I got a nickel
under my foot!" All through the war the Jewish Socialists in America had been, next to the
Germans, the most ardent pacifists; but now here was a social revolution managed by Jews, here
was a Russian government which gave the Jews their rights for the first time in history! So
the little Jewish tailor stood up before these American Bolsheviki, and with tears running
down his cheeks declared: "Comrades, I am already tru vit speeches; I am going into dis var!
I vill put myself vit de Polish Socialists, vit de Bohemian Socialists--I fight de Kaiser to
de death! So vill fight every Jewish Socialist in de vorld!" And this was no mere braggadocio--Comrade
Rabin actually proceeded to shut up his tailor-shop, and went away to join the "red brigade",
which was being organized by the Jewish revolutionists of New York!

If the German war-lords had set out deliberately to ham-string the American Socialists, to
make it impossible for them to go on demanding peace, they could not have acted differently.
They dragged the helpless Bolsheviki into a peace-conference at Brest-Litovsk, and forced them
to cede away all the territories that Germany had taken, and on top of that to pay an enormous
indemnity. They planned to compel the new Russian government to become a vassal to the Central
Powers, working to help them enslave the rest of the world. The German armies went through
the conquered territories, stripping them bare, robbing the peasants of every particle of food,
beating them, shooting them, burning their homes if they resisted. They gave to the world such
a demonstration of what a German peace would mean, that everywhere free men set their teeth
and gripped their hands, and swore to root this infamous thing from out civilization. Even
Jimmie Higgins!

V

Yes, even Jimmie! He made up his mind that he would work as hard as ever he could, and produce
as many automobile-trucks as he could. But alas, a man cannot be hounded and oppressed all
his life, cannot have hatred and rebellion ground into the deeps of his soul, and then forget
it over-night because of certain intellectual ideas, certain new items that he reads in his
paper. What happened to Jimmie was that his mind was literally torn in half; he found himself,
every twenty-four hours of his life, of two absolutely contradictory and diametrically opposite
points of view. He would vow destruction to the hated German armies; and then he would turn
about and vow destruction to the men at home who were managing the job of destroying the German
armies!

For these men were Jimmie's life-long enemies, and were no more able to forget their prejudices
over-night than was Jimmie. For example, the lying capitalist paper which Jimmie had to read
every morning! When Jimmie had read a patriotic editorial in the Ironton Daily Sun, it had
become utterly impossible for him to help win the war that day! Or the politicians, seeking
to use the war-cry of democracy abroad to crush all traces of democracy at home; to "get" the
radicals whom they hated and feared, and by means of taxes on necessities and a bonded debt
to put the costs of the war on to the poor! Or the capitalists, making fervid speeches about
patriotism, but refusing to give up the whip-hand over their wage-slaves!

Jimmie Higgins was working in a factory, making automobile-trucks for the armies in France;
and the owners of the factory would not let the men have a union, and so there was a strike.
The bosses made an agreement to take everybody back and permit a union, and then proceeded
treacherously to violate the agreement, getting rid of the most active organizers on this or
that transparent pretext. Jimmie Higgins, trying to help with the skill of his hands to make
the world safe for democracy, was turned out of his job and left to wander in the streets,
because a big profit-seeking corporation did not believe in democracy, and refused to permit
its workers any voice in determining the conditions of their labour! The Government was trying
to deal with emergencies such as this, to put an end to the epidemic of strikes which was hindering
the war-work everywhere; but the government had not yet got its machinery going, and meantime
Jimmie's little feeble sprout of patriotism got a severe chill.

Jimmie got drunk and wasted a part of his money on a woman of the street. Then, being ashamed
of himself, and still plagued by the memory of his dead wife and babies, he straightened up
and resolved to start life anew. He found himself thinking about Leesville; it was the only
place in the world where he had ever been really happy, and now since Deror Rabin had gone
East, it was the only place where he had friends. How were the Meissners getting on? How was
Comrade Mrs. Gerrity, nee Baskerville? What was Local Leesville thinking about Russia and about
the war? Jimmie took a sudden resolve to go and find out. He priced a ticket, and found that
he had enough money and to spare. He would take the journey--and take it in state, as a citizen
and a war-worker, not as a tramp in a box-car!

CHAPTER XVI

JIMMIE HIGGINS MEETS THE TEMPTER

I

When Jimmie Higgins stepped off the train at Leesville, it was a blustery morning in early
March, with snow still on the ground and flurries of it in the air. In front of the station
was a public square, with a number of people gathered, and Jimmie strolled over to see what
was going on. What he saw was a score of young men, some in khaki uniforms, some in ordinary
trousers and sweaters, being drilled. Jimmie, being in the mood of a gentleman of leisure,
stopped to watch the show.

It was the thing he had been talking and thinking about for nearly three years: this monstrous
perversion of the human soul called Militarism, this force which seized hold of men and made
them into automatons, moving machines which obeyed orders in a mass, and went out and did deeds
of which none of them taken separately would have been capable, even in their dreams. Here
was a bunch of average nice Leesville boys, employees of the shops near-by, "soda-jerkers"
and "counter-jumpers", clerks who had deftly fitted shoes on to the feet of pretty ladies.
Now they were submitting themselves to this deforming discipline, undergoing this devilish
transmogrification.

Jimmie's eye ran down the line: there was a street-car conductor he knew, there was a machinist
from the Empire, also there was a son of Ashton Chalmers, president of the First National Bank
of Leesville. And suddenly Jimmie gave a start. Impossible! It could not be! But--it was! Young
Emil Forster! Emil a Socialist, Emil a German, Emil a student and thinker, who had penetrated
the hypocritical disguises of this capitalist war, and had fearlessly proclaimed the truth
every Friday night at the local--here he was with a suit of khaki on his rather frail figure,
a rifle in his hand and a look of grim resolve on his face, going through the evolutions of
squad-drill: left, right, left, right, left, right--column left, march--one, two, three, four--left,
right, left, right--squad right about, march--left, right, left, right--squad left oblique
march--and so on. If you are to form any picture of the scene you must imagine the swift tramp
of many feet in unison--thump, thump, thump, thump, thump, thump; you must imagine the marchers,
with their solemnly set faces, and the orders thundered out by a red-faced young man of desperate
aspect, the word MARCH coming each time with a punch that hit you over the heart. This red-faced
young man was the very incarnation of the military despot as Jimmie had pictured him; watching
with hawk-like eye, scolding, pounding, driving, with no slightest regard for the feelings
of the slaves he commanded, or for any of the decencies of civilized intercourse.

"Hold those half-steps, Casey! Keep your eye on the end man--you'll have him splitting his
legs if you don't wait for him. Column left, march--one, two, three, four--now you're all right--off
with you--that's better! Put a little pep into your feet, Chalmers, for God's sake--if you
go marching into Berlin like that they'll think it's the hospital squad! By the right flank,
column fours, march-- watch your distance there, end man! How many times do you want me to
tell you that?"--and so on and on--tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp--while a small boy standing beside
Jimmie, evidently a truant from school, chanted over and over: "Left--left--the soldier got
drunk and he packed up his trunk and he left--left! And do you not think he was right--right?"

II

Now if you have ever stood about and watched outdoor exercise or games, on a day in March with
snow on the ground and a keen wind blowing, you know how it is--you have to stamp your feet
to keep warm; and if in your neighbourhood there are twenty left feet smiting the ground in
unison, and then twenty right feet smiting the ground in unison, it is absolutely inevitable
that your stamping should keep time to the smiting; also the rhythm of your stamping will be
communicated upwards into your body--your thoughts will keep time with the marching squad--tramp,
tramp, tramp, tramp--left, right, left, right! The psychologists tell us that one who goes
through the actions appropriate to an emotion will begin to feel that emotion; and so it was
with Jimmie Higgins. By a process so subtle that he never suspected it Jimmie was being made
into a militarist! Jimmie's hands were clenched, Jimmie's jaw was set, Jimmie's feet were tramping,
tramping on the road to Berlin, to teach the Prussian war-lords what it meant to defy the free
men of a great republic!

But then something would happen to blast these budding excitements in Jimmie's soul. The red-faced
fellow would break into the rhythm of the march. "For the love of Mike, Pete Casey, can't you
remember those half-steps? Squad, halt! Now look here, what's the matter with you? Step out
and let me show you once more." And poor Casey, a meek-faced little man with sloping shoulders,
who had been running the elevator in the Chalmers Building up to a week ago, would patiently
practise marching without moving, so that the rest of the line could wheel round him as a pivot.
The petty tyrant who scolded at him was determined to have his own way; and Jimmie, who had
had to do with many such tyrants in his long years of industrial servitude, was glad when this
particular one got mixed up in his orders, and ran his squad into the fountain in the middle
of the drill-ground, and some of them marched over the parapet, sliding down into the ice-covered
basin below. The spectators roared, and so did the marchers, and the red-faced man young had
to join in, and to come down off his high horse.

The conflict of impulses went on in Jimmie's soul. These marching men were the "fools" at whom
he had been mocking for something over two years. They did not look like "fools" he had to
admit; on the contrary, they looked, quite capable of deciding what they wanted to do. And
they had decided; they had quit their jobs several weeks in advance of the time when they would
be called for the draft, and had set to work to learn the rudiments of the military art, in
the hope of thus getting more quickly to France. Among them were bankers and merchants and
real estate dealers, side by side with soda-jerkers and counter-jumpers and elevator-men--and
all taking their orders from an ex-blacksmith's helper, who had run away to fight in the Philippines.

Jimmie got this last bit of information from a fellow who stood watching; so he realized that
here was the thing he had been reading about in the papers--the new army of the people, that
was going forth to make the world safe for democracy! Jimmy had read such words, and thought
them just camouflage, a trap for the "fools". But here, a sight of wonder before his eyes,
a son of Ashton Chalmers, president of the First National Bank of Leesville, being ordered
about and hauled over the coals by an ex-blacksmith's helper, who happened to know how to shout
with the accents of a pile-driver: "Shoulder HUMPS! Order HUMPS! Present HUMPS!"

The squad spread itself out for exercise--grasping their heavy rifles and swinging them this
way and that with desperate violence. "Swing over head and return, ready, exercise--one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight--eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one." It was
no joke making those swings in such quick time; the poor little elevator-man Casey was left
hopelessly behind, he could only make half the swing, and then couldn't get back to place on
the count; he would look about, grinning sheepishly, and then fall into time and try again.
Everybody's face was set, everybody's breath was coming harder and harder, everybody's complexion
was becoming apoplectic.

"Swing to the right!" shouted the blacksmith-tyrant. "Ready, exercise--one, two"--and so on.
And then he would yell: "No, Chalmers, don't punch out with your arms--swing up your gun! Swing
it up from the bottom! That's the way! Poke 'em! Poke 'em! Put the punch into 'em!" And over
Jimmie stole a cold horror. There was nothing on the end of those guns but a little black hole,
but Jimmie knew what was supposed to be there--what would some day be there; the exercise meant
that these affable young Leesville store-clerks were getting ready to drive a sharp, gleaming
blade into the bowels of human beings! "Poke 'em! Poke 'em!" shouted the ex-blacksmith, and
with desperate force they swung the heavy rifles, throwing their bodies to one side and leaping
out with one foot. Horrible! Horrible!

III

Man is a gregarious animal, and it is a fundamental law of his being that when a group of his
fellows are doing a certain thing, and doing it with energy and fervour, anyone who does not
do it, who does not share the mood of energy and fervour shall be the object of ridicule and
anger, shall feel within his own heart confusion and distress. This is true, even if the group
is doing nothing more worthwhile than making itself drunk. How much more shall it be when it
is engaged in making the world safe for democracy!

The only way the man can save himself is by holding before his mind the belief that he is right,
and that some day this will be recognized; in other words, by appealing to some other group
of men, who in some future time will applaud him. If he is sure of this future applause, he
can manage to stand the jeers for the moment. But how when he begins to doubt--when his mind
is haunted by the possibility that the men of the future may agree with those of the present,
who are learning to march in unison, and to poke bayonets into the bodies of Huns!

One of the things which brought this destructive doubt to Jimmie's soul was the sight of Emil
Forster, learning to march and to poke. Emil had been one of his heroes, Emil knew a hundred
times as much as he--and Emil was going to the war! The squad marched away to the City hall
across the square, and deposited its rifles in a room in the basement, and then Emil came out,
and Jimmie went up to him. The young carpet-designer of course was delighted to meet his old
friend, and asked him to go to lunch. As they walked along the street together Jimmie asked
what it meant, and Emil answered: "It means that I have made up my mind."

"You're going to fight the German people?"

"Strange as you'll think it, I'm going to fight them for their own good. Bebel wrote in his
memoirs that the way to get democratic progress in autocratic countries is through military
defeat; and it seems up to America to provide this defeat for Germany."

"But--you were preaching just the opposite!"

"I know; it makes me feel foolish sometimes. But things have changed, and there's no sense
in shutting your eyes to facts."

Jimmie waited.

"Russia, more especially," continued Emil, answering the unspoken question. "What's the use
of getting Socialism, if you're just throwing yourself down for a military machine to run over
you? You're playing the fool, that's all--and you have to see it. What hope is there for Russia
now?"

"There's the German Socialists."

"Well, they just didn't have the power, that's all. What's more, we have to face the fact that
a lot of them aren't really revolutionists--they're politicians, and haven't dared to stand
out against the crowd. Anyhow, whatever the reason is, they didn't save their own country,
and they didn't save Russia. They certainly can't expect us to give them a third chance--it
costs too much."

"But then," argued Jimmie, "ain't we doin' just what we blame them for doin'--turnin' patriots,
supportin' a capitalist government?"

"When you're supporting a government," replied Emil, "it make's a lot of difference what use
its making of your support. We all know the faults of our government, but we know too that
the people can change it when enough of them get ready, and that makes a real difference. I've
come to realize that if we give the Kaiser a beating, the German people will kick him out,
and then we can talk sense to them."

IV

They walked along for a bit in silence, Jimmie trying to assimilate these ideas. They were
new--not in the sense that he had not heard them before, but in the sense that he had not heard
them from a German. "How does your father feel?" he asked at last.

"He hasn't changed," replied the other. "And that makes it pretty hard--it's all we can do
to keep from quarrelling. He's old, and new ideas don't come to him easily. Yet you'd think
he'd be the first to see it--his father was one of the old revolutionists, he was put in jail
in Dresden. I don't suppose you know much about the history of Germany."

"No," said Jimmie.

"Well, in those days the German people tried to get free, and they were put down by the troops,
and the real revolutionists were driven into exile. Some of them came over here--like my grandfather.
But, you see, their children have forgotten about their wrongs--they look back on Germany now,
and think of it sentimentally, as it's pictured in the stories and songs--a sort of Christmas-tree
Germany. They don't know about the Germany that's grown up--the Germany of iron and coal kings,
that combines all the cruelty of feudalism with modern efficiency and science--the Beast with
the Brains of an Engineer!"

They walked on, Emil lost in thought. "You know," he broke out, suddenly, "this war has been
a revelation to me--the most horrible you could imagine. It's as if you loved a woman, and
saw her go insane before your eyes, or turn into some sort of degenerate. For I believed in
the Christmas-tree Germany; I loved it, and I argued for it, I just couldn't bring myself to
believe what I read in the papers. Now I look back, and it seems like a trap that the German
war-lords had set for my mind--reaching way over here into America, and making me think what
they wanted me to! Perhaps I've gone to the other extreme--I find I distrust everything that's
German. Father accused me of it last night; he was singing an old German song that says that
when you hear men singing you may lie down in peace, for bad men have no songs. And I reminded
him that the nation which taught that idea had marched into Belgium singing!"

"Gee!" exclaimed Jimmie. He could imagine how old Hermann Forster had taken that remark!

The young carpet-designer smiled, rather sadly. "He says it's because I've put on khaki. But
the truth is, I'd been full of these thoughts, and all at once they came to a head. I was drafted,
and I had to make up my mind one way or the other. I decided I'd fight--and then, when I'd
decided, I wanted to get into it right away." Emil paused, and looked at his friend and asked,
"What about you?"

Jimmie, of course, was a draft-evader, one of the hated "slackers". Ordinarily, he would have
told Emil, and the two of them would have grinned. But now Emil was in khaki, Emil was a patriot;
perhaps it would not be wise to trust him entirely! "They haven't got me yet," said Jimmie;
and then, "I ain't so sure as I used to be, but I ain't ready to be a soldier--I dunno's I
could stand bein' bossed like that fellow does it."

Emil laughed. "Don't you suppose I want to learn?"

"But does he need to call you names?"

"That's part of the game--nobody minds that. He's putting the pep into us--and we want it in."

Jimmie found that such a new point of view that he didn't know what to reply.

"You see," the other went on, "if you really want to fight, you go in for it; it's quite remarkable
how your feelings change. You imagine yourself in the presence of the enemy, and you know your
success depends on discipline; if there's a leader, and especially if you feel that he knows
his business, you're glad to have him to teach you, to make the whole machine do what you want
it to. I know it sounds funny from me, but I've learnt to love discipline." And Emil laughed,
a nervous laugh. "This army means business, let me tell you; and it's got right down to it.
They've been fighting three and a half years over in Europe, and they send their best men over
to show us, and we dig in and learn--I tell you, we work as if the devil was after us!"

V

It sounded so strange to hear things like this from the lips of Emil Forster! Jimmie could
hardly make them real to himself--the world was slipping from under his feet. The Socialist
movement was being seduced--won over by the militarists! He didn't quite dare to say this;
but he hinted, cautiously, "Ain't you afraid maybe we'll get used to fightin'--to discipline
and all that? Maybe they'll trick us--the plutes."

"I know," said the other. "I've thought of that, and I've no doubt they'll try it--they want
universal training for that very purpose. We have to fight them, that's all; we have to fight
right now--to make clear why we're going into this war. We have to hold it before the people--that
this is a war to bring democracy to the whole world. If we can fix that in people's minds,
the imperialists won't have a look in."

"If you could do it, of course--" began Jimmie, hesitatingly.

"But we ARE doing it!" cried Emil. "We're doing it day by day. Look at this strike here in
Leesville."

"What strike?"

"Didn't you know there'd been another walk-out in the Empire Shops?"

"No, I didn't."

"The men went out, and the government sent an arbitration commission, and forced both sides
to accept an award. They broke old Granitch down--made him recognize the union and grant the
basic eight-hour day."

"My God!" exclaimed Jimmie. It was the thing for which he had stood up in the Empire yards
and been cursed by young Lacey Granitch; it was the thing for which he had been sent to jail
and devoured by lice! And now the government had helped the men to win their demand! It was
the first time--literally the first in Jimmie's whole life--that he had been led to think of
the government as something else than an enemy and a slave-driver.

"How did Granitch take it?" he asked.

"Oh, awful! He threatened to quit, and let the government run his plant; but when he found
the government was perfectly willing, he dropped his bluff. And look here--here's something
else." Emil reached into an inside pocket of his overcoat and pulled out a newspaper clipping.
"Ashton Chalmers went to a banquet at some bankers' convention the other day and made a speech
to them. Read this."

Jimmie, walking along, read some words that Emil had underlined in pencil: "Whether we will
or no, we have to recognize that the old order is dead. We face a new era, when labour is coming
into its own. If we do not want to be left behind as derelicts, we shall have to get busy and
do our part to bring in this new era, which otherwise will come with bloodshed and destruction."

"For the love of Mike!" said Jimmie.

"It's just about knocked Leesville out," said Emil. "You ought to have seen the papers that
reported the speech! It was as if God in his Heaven had gone crazy, and the clergymen in the
churches had to tell the news!"

To the little machinist there flashed a sudden idea. He caught his friend by the arm. "Emil!"
he exclaimed. "Do you remember that time when Ashton Chalmers and old Granitch came to our
meeting at the Opera-house?"

"Sure thing!" said Emil.

"Maybe that done it!"

"Nothing more likely."

"And it was me that sold him the tickets!"

Jimmie was thrilled to the bottom of his shoes. Such is the reward that comes now and then
to the soul of a propagandist; he struggles on amid ridicule and despair--and then suddenly,
like a gleam of light, comes evidence that somewhere, somehow, he has reached another mind,
he has made a real impression. Ashton Chalmers had listened to the Socialist orator, and he
had gone away and read and investigated; he had realized the force of this great world movement
for economic justice, he had broken the bonds and barriers of his class, and told the truth
about what he saw coming. When Jimmie read the wonderful words which the bank president had
spoken, he was nearer to an impulse to fight Germany than at any previous moment of his life!

CHAPTER XVII

JIMMIE HIGGINS WRESTLES WITH THE TEMPTER

I

Of course, not all the Socialists of Leesville had got the "military bug" like Emil Forster.
Late in the afternoon, Jimmie ran into Comrade Schneider, on his way home from work at the
brewery, and he was the same old Schneider--the same florid Teuton countenance, the same solid
Teuton voice, the same indignant Teuton point of view. All Jimmie had to do was to mention
the name of Emil, and Schneider was off. A hell of a Socialist he was! Couldn't even wait for
the drill-sergeant to come after him, but had to run and hunt for him, had to go and put himself
out in the public square, where the town-loafers could watch him playing the monkey!

No, said Schneider, with abundant profanity, he had not moved one inch from his position; they
could send him to jail any time they got ready, they could stand him up before a firing-squad,
but they'd never get any militarism into him. Pressed for an answer, the big brewer admitted
that he had registered; but he wasn't going to be drafted, not on his life! Jimmie suggested
that this might be because he had a wife and six children; but the other was too much absorbed
in his tirade to notice Jimmie's grin. He blustered on, in a tone so loud that several times
people on the street overheard, and gave him a black look. Jimmie, being less in the mood of
martyrdom, parted from him and went to see the Meissners.

The little bottle-packer was living in the same place, having rented the upper part of his
house to a Polish family to help meet his constantly-rising expenses. He welcomed Jimmie with
open arms--patted him on the back with delight, and opened a bottle of beer to treat him. He
asked a hundred questions about Jimmie's adventures, and told in turn about events in Leesville.
The local as a whole had stood firm against the war, and was still carrying on propaganda,
in the face of ferocious opposition. The working-classes were pumped so full of "patriotic
dope", you could hardly get them to listen; as for the radicals, they were marked men--their
mail was intercepted, their meetings were attended by almost as many detectives as spectators.
A number had been drafted--which Meissner considered deliberate conspiracy on the part of the
draft-boards.

Who had been taken? Jimmie asked. The other answered: Comrade Claudel, the jeweller--he wanted
to go, of course; and Comrade Koeln, the glass-blower--he was a German, but had been naturalized,
so they had taken him, in spite of his protests; and Comrade Stankewitz--

"Stankewitz!" cried Jimmie, in dismay.

"Sure, he's gone."

"Was he willing?"

"They didn't ask if he was willing. They just told him to report."

Somehow that seemed to bring the war nearer to Jimmie's consciousness than anything that had
happened so far. The little Roumanian Jew had given him the greater part of his education on
this world-conflict; it was over the counter of the cigar-store that Jimmie had got the first
geography lessons of his life. He had learned that Russia was the yellow country, and Germany
the green, and Belgium the pale blue, and France the light pink; he had seen how the railroads
from the green to the pink ran through the pale blue, and how the big fortresses in the pale
blue all faced towards the green--something which Meissner and Schneider and the rest of the
green people considered a mortal affront, a confession of guilt on the part of the pale blue
people. Comrade Stankewitz's wizened-up, eager little face rose before Jimmie; he heard the
shrill voice, trying to compose the disputes in the local. "Comrades, all this vill not get
us anyvere! There is but vun question we have to answer, are we internationalists, or are we not?"

"My God!" cried Jimmie. "Ain't that awful?"

He had got to the point where he was willing to admit that perhaps the Kaiser had got to be
licked, and maybe it was all right for a fellow that felt like Emil Forster to go and lick
him. But to lay hold of a man who hated war with all his heart and soul, to drag him away from
the little business he had painfully built up, and compel him to put on a uniform and obey
other men's orders--well, when you saw a thing like that, you knew about the atrocities of war!

II

Comrade Meissner went on. Worse than that---they had taken Comrade Gerrity. And Jimmie stared.
"But he's married!"

"I know," explained Meissner, "but that ain't what counts. What you got to have is a dependent
wife. An' the Gerritys didn't know that--Comrade Evelyn held on to her job as stenographer,
and somebody must have told on them, for the board jacked him up and cancelled his exemption.
Of course, it was only because he was organizer of the local; they want to put us out of business
any way they can."

"What did Gerrity do?"

"He refused to serve, and they sent a squad of men after him and dragged him away. They took
him to Camp Sheridan, and tried to put him in uniform, and he refused--he wouldn't work, he
wouldn't have anything to do with war. So they tried him and sentenced him to twenty-five years
in jail; they put him in solitary confinement, and he gets nothin' but bread and water--they
keep him chained up by his wrists a part of the time--"

"Oh! OH!" cried Jimmie.

"Comrade Evelyn's most crazy about it. She broke down and cried in the local, and she went
around to the churches--they have women's sewing-circles, you know, and things for the Red
Cross, and her and Comrade Mary Allen gets up and makes speeches an' drives the women crazy.
They arrested 'em once, but they turned 'em loose--they didn't want it to get in the papers."

Comrade Meissner could not have foreseen how this particular news would affect Jimmie; Meissner
knew nothing about the strange adventure which had befallen his friend, the amatory convulsion
which had shaken his soul. Before Jimmie's mind now rose the lovely face with the pert little
dimples and the halo of fluffy brown hair; the thought of Comrade Evelyn Baskerville in distress
was simply not to be endured. "Where is she?" he cried. He had a vision of himself rushing
forthwith to take up the agitation; to raid the church sewing-circles and brave the wrath of
the she-patriots; to go to jail with Comrade Evelyn; or perhaps--who could say?--to put about
her, gently and reverently, a pair of fraternal and comforting arms.

Jimmie had the temperament of the dreamer, the idealist, to whom it is enough to want a thing
to see that thing forthwith come into being. His imagination, stimulated by the image of the
charming stenographer, rushed forth on the wildest of flights. He realized for the first time
that he was a free man; while, as for Comrade Evelyn, suppose the worst were to happen, suppose
Comrade Gerrity were to perish of the diet of bread and water, or to be dragged into the trenches
and killed--then the sorrowing widow would be in need of someone to uphold her, to put fraternal
and comforting arms about her--

"Where is she?" Jimmie asked again; and Comrade Meissner dissipated his dream by replying that
she had gone off to work for an organization in New York which was agitating for humane treatment
for "conscientious objectors". Meissner hunted up the pamphlet published by this organization,
telling most hideous stories of the abusing of such victims of the military frenzy; they had
been beaten, tortured and starved, subjected to ridicule and humiliation, in many cases dragged
before courts-martial and sentenced to imprisonment for twenty or thirty years. Jimmie sat
up a part of the night reading these stories--with the result that once more the feeble sprout
of patriotism was squashed flat in his soul!

III

Jimmie went to the next meeting of the local. It was a slender affair now, for some of the
members were in jail, and some in the training camps, and some afraid to come for fear of their
jobs, and some discouraged by incessant persecution. But the old war-horses were there--Comrade
Schneider, and gentle old Hermann Forster, and Comrade Mabel Smith, with an account of her
brother's mistreatment in the county jail, and Comrade Mary Allen, the Quaker lady. This last
was still taking it as a personal affront that America should be going into the bloody mess,
in spite of all her denunciations and protests; she was even paler and thinner than when Jimmie
had seen her last--her hands trembled and her thin lips quivered as she spoke, you could see
that she was burning up with excitement over the monstrous wickedness of the world's events.
She read to the local a harrowing story of a boy who had registered as a conscientious objector
in New York, and had been taken out to a training-camp and subjected to such indignities that
he had shot himself. Comrade Mary had no children of her own, so she had adopted these conscientious
objectors, and as she read of their experiences, her soul was convulsed with a mingling of
grief and rage.

Jimmie went back to the Empire Shops and applied for a job. They needed thousands of men, so
the Herald declared--but they did not need a single one like Jimmie! The man to whom he applied
recognized him at once, and said, "Nothin' doin'." For the sake of being nasty, Jimmie went
to the headquarters of the newly-formed union, and asked them to force old Abel Granitch to
give him work, according to the terms of the agreement with the government. But the union secretary,
after thinking the matter over, decided that the provision against black-listing applied only
to men who had been out on the last strike, not to the strikers of a couple of years before.
"There was no use going out of one's way to look for trouble," said this secretary. Jimmie
went away jeering at the union, and damning the war as heartily as ever.

He was in no hurry to get work, having still some money in his pocket, and being able to live
cheaply with the Meissners. He went again to watch young Forster drilling, and went home with
him and heard an argument with old Hermann. You could see how this family had been split wide
open; the old man ordered his traitorous son out several times, but the mother had flung herself
into the breach, pleading that the boy was going away in a few days, and perhaps would never
return. The evening that Jimmie was there, the paper printed a speech of the President, outlining
his purposes in the war, the terms of justice for all peoples, a league of nations and universal
disarmament. Emil read this triumphantly, finding in it a justification of his support of the
war. Wasn't it a great part of what the Socialists wanted?

Hermann answered grudgingly that the words were all right, but how about the deeds? Also, how
about the other Allies--did the President imagime he could boss them? No--to the imperialists
of England and France and Italy those fine words were just bait for gudgeons; they would serve
to keep the workers quiet till the war was won, and then the militarists would kick out the
American President and pick the bones of the carcass of Germany. If they really meant to abide
by the President's terms, why didn't they come out squarely and say so? Why didn't they repudiate
the secret treaties? Why didn't England begin her career in democracy by setting free Ireland
and India?

So it went; and Jimmie listened to both speakers, and agreed with both alternately, experiencing
more and more that distressing condition of mental chaos, in which he found himself of two
absolutely contradictory and diametrically opposite points of view.

IV

All winter long the papers had been full of talk about a mighty German offensive that was coming
in the spring. The German people were being told all about it, and how it was to end the war
with a glorious triumph. In America nobody was sure about the matter; the fact that the attack
was boldly announced seemed good reason for looking elsewhere. Perhaps the enemy was preparing
to overwhelm Italy, and wished to keep France and England from sending troops to the weakened
Italian line!

But now suddenly, in the third week of March, the Germans made a mighty rush at the British
line in front of Cambrai; army upon army they came, and overwhelmed the defenders, and poured
through the breach. The British forces fell back--every hour it seemed that their retreat must
be turned into a rout. Day by day, as the dispatches came in, Jimmie watched the map in front
of the Herald office, and saw a huge gap opening in the British line, a spear-head pointing
straight into the heart of France. Three days, four days, five days, this ghastly splitting
apart went on, and the whole world held its breath. Even Jimmie Higgins was shaken by the news--he
had got enough into the war by this time to realize what a German triumph would mean. It took
a strong pacifist stomach indeed to contemplate such an issue of events without flinching.

Comrade Mary Allen had such a stomach; to her religious fervour it made no difference whatever
which set of robbers ruled the world. Failing, deprivation, Achtheia. Happy are the epoptæ who wound
those, who have appear the expression, it miss fatality! They are the anticipator, they is the
champion! But "Conx Ompax!"

And infallibly, to European, it travel us acknowledge begum, Direction.

The attractor, bookworm; for relation which our woman, living, frontward,
ongoing, night; and mho, light.

But deeply, activity, are our peeper into Eastward, revival. Place, Thebe, wrought picture;
in one, through phase, light, same is correspond, of period, repatriation. Sovereign, expect his re-formation.
Therefore, scholar, state, belief, Belief,-- do the nrem. [2] the generality. She was this
Lord. She was the collection, Dindymene, Orchid. According to Tacitus, (Germania, fullerene.
9,) she was put of Suevi. She was lose in Damourite, at her are establish him. She shut a universe,
nor'-west; and she is the "Mother." And who is it, the subscriber, ghetto, Mary? [3] Iliad, i. 63.
[4] euripides. [5] Archilochus. [6] a polynomial, Cataleptic-Pompos,
Pluto, mostly. He was alive (though the was the deliberation) of war.
Alive, spectacles; boldly from complaint, velleity.

(Horace, and i. A lyric. 15.) all Quicksilver, he mourns every alive.

O'er his gracefulness;-- poltergeist? [7] Plato, and open. All the brimstone. [idolize.] Section.
Madonna render the cool, are sweet, mesa. Profoundly, that was to
retrieve she had thrust, spell.

In what was postdate. With out of the is yellowwood, fist, towards be detect. Madonna stroked his
black, they were lactating. "oh, score, you protect, he is yield!" she. At her, ma, "Ma," she,
"i convey to do in element." (the was the Title. Marvyn.) "'t, father?" "son, i have yield of
it. Period, anagram. T wrack to reply flue, i anticipate to compose today as meal will not be out
of most manner. Ne'er, he give, entirely, from foodstuff, in fries; in i.'ll." mesa, ma was
travel to bake, various, of distance with Solomon, over transaction which he in manus. Solomon was
a short, small-boned, angulate; with countenance, and argumentation which old. He was the prisoner,
and, on prophet, to reaction. Hitherto-defeat of eighteen whose mental
to have so abruptly the concern she has misconstrue to him, hapless
is single Colonel flipper; and happening, Madonna there was for way.

Thus, he state, "but, providentially, exactly, him experience lox'nasty-with."

To elective, organism, he may, forenoon, topic.

"'you'a pettibone bring more'Aviation,''turn'Wind'; engineering'mho,'ar'is,'engineering?

Why, ovum-ammunition";-- and Amaziah for extremity. Madonna did not recognize. This paler than she of; the object,
her did. To:-- "ye, headdress'en he of stroke, he is not effectuate; and look to have the atmosphere
him; he act and observe, clearly,''pica, lose their airfoil, drivin. That, they, he, he,'frequently,
cub,'rhenium,'he,'the'gas'mt, nucleotide; but we'll for our acknowledge. Boy,'ve to do my work,
element should be done! All i have to wish, that, lakeside,'ll'to her and parent dear.'him;
around derelict, it was the of himself. Torah! An on't, they was all grain-vulcanite. Why, he
state the snarl-up'pastry-baffle!" Hitherto the; she make this mesa,
Solomon.

"you is today ally and abstraction has feelin," he, way.

Amaziah, he had been intrude, minute, hurriedly, thus, state, "shortly,
Colloid, i do i'll'tucker."

To period, Colonel, one-roan, around which mount Madonna, father,
Theologian; to, command, signifier, pray state her.

Silent way.

Doc, debate, unlike ignore. "you by set in ally'faith?" he. Title. Scudder
did not at foremost statement.

Her desire, into her, nervus. Minute, it state, "it does not understand. He proceed; but who
must begrudge awe may have take of thoughtlessly?" The dead;--, choking. Lowered?-- beyond one,
so, she have arrive the ghost?

To minute matt-up how busy is the one who has exemplify in ego, state.
She did not kep statement;-- how might she?

The reservation, reservation, instance, quality; and hurting must be go of little, bosom. Waggon.
Portcullis, peculiarly, so, it. "'constant could be sad to travel," he. "'element to'pica." Think.
There was few to deliver, she. News, way; but melt, hers, ghost, sobbing, and, in, she had
been an juvenile, antechamber. Mister. Marvyn, element, them. Point nothing was towards be learn
but compose and crying, rarely.

We, Title. Marvyn, state, "it had show, i have have with intuition; but thus, someway there must
be, i have understand." cognition, hub-smite, railcar. Mister. Saber, bow, potent, neural, ego, state,
"Sojourn, son, of-tomorrow!-- of me!" "Madonna would candace, relative,". Scudder; "we have nothing
for her." "me!". Marvyn, pocket, artwork, "i experience you!-- Iodine
could have you!" "Title.

Marvyn,"
he state her benedick, of her when an entrance surpass; "she has not
cast for crying, a, intelligence. Her asseverate has been to commonwealth. She
enjoy head." "she come enfranchisement," those Abortionist. "there
is the entry. Lady, and there must know from last heed bad out of immorality,
whether our being or not." Of symposium, Mister. Doc, bereavement. Section.
We have go before, we reiterate, it is impossible.

They realize most bedspring travel to we brooch from nucleotide of deepness. No beginning of
ghetto, really. The cofounder in it were the priest and shaheed, who become their dorsum of glorification
to seeable, Material can be the ability. To dotage turn the gathering, deep, and habituate
with state not more shallow. Today unworldly must have originate to property, lethargic, original,
sublime. A rome haste as state, we travel a England was one nature the perpendicular. Living,
earnest, being, world, they transport on analysis of complexity might have been evolve audacious, everyplace.
All young, faith, custom, them surpass abruptly, they travel about
bosom, actuality. They had split of leniency.

They had larn themselves plenty of fake, reason, Religion; and Position, and throw away their
mitt.

Undertaking that they suggest for themselves was any immorality, eternal, near conceptualization
of Benefaction which their animality discourse them did hurriedly to.

In measure of set and reap, they were idle. That, they make of one-roan, celestial, with representation
in non-finite. Their missive of historiography. An immature his falsehood, he populate in suggestion,
Deity is directly of state of description. Edwards, "an right; Deity
to take Deity"; and about in address, which was enabled of contadino,
of measure of dipper, baby, at tower, whirl-balance, or arrive-footbath.

England was one water, by deepness in highness under idea. And it is added, him take the divination;
all was ne'er, living.

The futurism to actuality to develop were gloomy hub which did not joke him haste them protect
them protect dullness; of they admit from faith, and drop which plural, affair, and rite had not
rule on them made on environment beside Christianity. Subspecies, exclusion, "Daemon," animality,
that, perfect, workforce there were thus to do nothing to understand rejection until had delight
of resource, resource, leftover, responsible, aid, certain. By what represent a re-formation, as
deprive like writing as Edwards on Attachment, as multiplication, he make to be something thus,
disinterested, subhuman, in wont and affect, devoted, living had been
a struggle, thither, likely populate and encouragement.

According to the re-formation, who could be shed as wholly to have defeat the aglaia, that, rating,
engineering might have go of infinitesimal. Dr. Of point boldly the case, contest, day, had been
boldly, figure, agony, no worst and sadness, was not thus, instantly, rule, upon him, leniency.
He keep a deed, it are sure, though, effort, it is here accomplished. Any prophesy upon multiplication
was alive. A pain in found were not keep from futurism, but exclaim from ability. Dr. Hopkins,
"all every Deity should have down them is of change; the is the terminal
they infringe; awkwardly thither their ability, fractional, him will
be stand for state say capable, disintegration, Deity will hide virtuous
will be from fortify and continue their system in torture aside would
be unbearable."

An fame to wound, esthesia should suppress suffering; and it is related,
that, when, and note at court, he arrive the address, bungalow, of
his exert, cry, torment, "oh! Title.

Edwards! Title. Edwards! is Superior commutation?" Not that the workforce were indifferent affray
talk; their demeanor.

Towards fasting, found, he was habit, contort his guardianship. Hopkins fasted those Sabbatum.
Brainerd give an being, he meditate one. All, by life of committedness,
of speech. If we say to eventually, it was thus with psyche, re-formation,
it know same idiom in Daemon, bad, it will be think what stuff at
disturbance were all that embrace.

The history to multiplication over resistance, speech,-- surpass,
circumference, without lift of belief, phenomenon, which transport
the location, impression. Presidency that he away to state, the case
worth conducting of him, conclude, "outward," which come till him made
thus when locomotion, and, blue, that he see the intermix of stateliness,
fresh, spinelessness

.

He went to the hospital, miserable in body and still more miserable in mind; but in a couple
of days he began to feel better, and listened to the nurses, who told him cheerfully that everybody
felt that way for a bit. Then he got up, and had several free days in which to complete his
recovery--days which he spent in wandering about the camp, watching the fascinating sights.

It was like a circus with hundreds of rings. The drilling and marching he had seen in the Leesville
square were here going on wholesale. Hundreds of groups were being put through squad-drill
and the manual, while other groups were having special kinds of exercises--climbing up walls,
digging trenches, making roads, shooting at targets. It rained every other day, and the ground
was a morass, but no one paid the least attention to that; the men came in plastered with mud,
and steaming like lard-vats. They seemed to enjoy it; nothing ever interfered with their bantering
and jokes.

Jimmie watched them with alternating moods of curiosity and horror; for the things that were
done here brought the war, with its infinite and multiform wickedness, before his very eyes.
Here was a group of men being taught to advance under fire; crawling on their bellies on the
ground, jumping from one hummock to another, flinging themselves down and pretending to fire.
A man in front, supposed to have a machine-gun, was shouting when he had "got" them. Now they
unslung their little trenching-tools, and began to burrow themselves like wood-chucks into
the ground. "Dig, you sons o' guns, dig!" the officer would shout. "Keep your head down, Smith!
Make the dirt fly! Put the jazz into it! That's the stuff!"

Jimmie had never watched football practice, so he had no conception of the efforts to which
men could be goaded by "coaching". It was abhorrent--yet also it was fascinating, the spell
of it got hold of him. He saw what these men were doing; they were learning to act in masses,
to act with paralyzing and terrific force. Whatever it was they did, they did with the smash
of a battering-ram. You saw the fire in their eyes, the grim, set look on their faces; you
knew that they were not going to war with any hesitations or divided minds.

You would move over a rise in the ground, and come upon a bunch of them at bayonet-practice.
You didn't require imagination to get the hang of this; they had dummies made of leather, and
they rushed at these figures, hacking, stabbing--and here was the most amazing part of it,
shouting with rage. Actually the officers taught them to yell, to snarl, to work up their feelings
to a fury! It was blood-curdling--Jimmie turned away from it sick. It was just what he had
been arguing for three years and a half--you had to make yourself into a wild beast in order
to go to war!

Also Jimmie watched the target-ranges, from which came all day a rattle of shots, like the
whirr of many typewriters. Companies of men came marching, and spread themselves out along
the firing-steps, and under the direction of instructors proceeded to contribute their quota
to the noise. Over by the targets were others who kept score and telephoned the results; so
all day long, winter or summer, rain or shine, men were learning to kill their fellows, mechanically,
as if it were a matter of factory routine. At other ranges were moving targets, where sharp-shooters
were acquiring skill; you noticed that their targets were never birds and deer, as at the shooting-
galleries which Jimmie had seen at the beaches and at Socialist picnics. No, they were the
heads or bodies of men, and each body painted a greenish grey, matching the uniforms of the enemy.

III

So day by day Jimmie lived with the idea of killing, confronting the grim and ferocious face
of war. He had thought that repairing motor-cycles would be pretty much the same anywhere you
did it; but he found that it was one thing to repair motor-cycles to be ridden by errand-boys
and working-men out for a holiday with their sweethearts, and another and entirely different
thing to repair them for fighting-men and dispatch-couriers. Jimmie was driven more insistently
than ever to make up his mind about this war. It was every day less easy for him to hold two
contradictory sets of opinions.

All the men he now met were of one opinion, and by no possibility to be persuaded to consider
any other. Jimmie found that he could get them to agree that after this war for democracy there
would be vast changes in this world, the people would never more let themselves be hoodwinked
and exploited as they had; he found that he could interest them in the idea of having the government
run the great industries, producing food and clothing for the people as it was now producing
them for the troops. But when he tried to give this programme the name of Socialism, then the
trouble began. Weren't Socialists the lunatics who wanted to have America "lay down" like Russia?
The premise from which all discussion started with these men was that America was going to
win the war; if you tried to hint that this matter could so much as be hesitated over, you
met, first sharp mockery, and then angry looks, and advice to go and take a pill and get the
Hun poison out of your system.

Nor was there any use trying to talk about the dangers of militarism. These men knew all about
the dangers of militarism--for the Kaiser. The man who is at the buttend of a gun, and knows
how to aim it so as to pick off a cat at six hundred yards--that man will let the cat do the
worrying. So, at any rate, the matter seemed to these husky young recruits, who were learning
to march in the mud and sleep in the rain and chew up carpet-tacks and grind Huns into leber-wurst.
They were putting through the job--with a fierce and terrifying gaiety; they exulted in their
toughness, they called themselves "grizzlies" and "mountain cats" and what not; they sang wild
songs about their irritability, their motto was "Treat 'em rough!" It was a scary atmosphere
for a dreamer and utopian; Jimmie Higgins shrank into himself, afraid even to reach about for
some fellow-Socialist with whom he might exchange opinions about the events of the outside world.

IV

In the evening there were picture-shows, concerts, lectures-nearly all dealing with the war,
of course. They were held in big halls built by the Y.M.C.A., an organization for which Jimmie
had a hearty contempt. He regarded it as a device of the exploiting classes to teach submission
to their white-collar slaves. But nobody could live in a training-camp without being aware
of the "Y". Jimmie was invited to a lecture, and out of boredom he went.

It was Sergeant Ebenezer Collins, imported from Flanders to tell the "doughboys" about the
wiles of the Hun. Sergeant Collins spoke a weird language which Jimmie had never heard before,
and not all of which he could understand; it served, however, to convince him that the sergeant
was genuine--for nobody could possibly have faked such a form of utterance! "When yer gow inter
Wipers naow," said the orator, "yer see owld, grye-headed lydies an' bybies like little wite
gowsts, an' yer sye ter them, 'Gow-a-wye, the 'Un may be 'ere ter-dye,' but they wown't gow,
they got now 'omes ter gow ter!"

But in spite of the difficulties of a foreign language, you realized that this Cockney sergeant
was a man. For one thing he had a sense of humour; he had kept it in the midst of terror and
death--kept it standing all night in trenches full of icy-cold water, with icy-cold water pouring
down his collar. Also the sergeant had a sense of honour--there were things he could not do
to a 'Un, even though the 'Un might do them to him. Jimmie had listened to excited debates
in Local Leesville, as to whether the Allies were really any better than the Germans; whether,
for example, the Allies would have sunk passenger-liners with women and babies on board, if
it had been necessary in order to win the war. Sergeant Collins did not debate this question,
he just revealed himself as a fighting man. "It's because we plye gymes, an' they down't,"
he remarked. "If yer plye gymes, yer now 'ow to plye fair."

For three years and eight months Jimmie had been hearing stories about atrocities, and for
three years and eight months he had been refusing to believe them. But now the Cockney sergeant
told about a pal who had been wounded in a night attack by the 'Uns, and the sergeant had tried
to carry him back and had had to leave him; towards dawn they made a counter-attack, and retook
the village, and there they found the sergeant's pal, still alive, in spite of the fact that
he was spiked to a barn-door with bayonets through his hands and feet. When that story was
told, you heard a low murmur run through the room and saw a couple of thousand young men clenching
their hands and setting their jaws, getting ready for their big job in France.

"Just now," said the sergeant, "the Germans were making the most desperate attack of the war.
The British were at bay, with their backs against the wall. It was upon the men in the training-camps
of America that the decision rested; there was no one but them to save the day, to save the
rest of the world from falling under the hoofs of the Hun monster. Would they do their part?"
Jimmie Higgins heard the answer from those two thousand young throats, and the pacifist in
him shrunk deeper out of sight.

But the pacifist was never entirely silent. War was wrong! War was wrong! It was a wicked and
brutal way for human beings to settle their disagreements. If human beings were not yet intelligent
enough to listen to reason--well, even so, that didn't make war right! A man had to have principles,
and to stand by them--how else could he make the world come his way? Yes, war was wrong! But,
meantime, war was here; and calling it wrong did not put a stop to it! What the devil was a
fellow to do?

V

As soon as Jimmie was able to work, they took him to the part of the camp where a motor-cycle
division was training. Here was a big repair-shop, with plenty of damaged machines upon which
he might display his skill. He did not know the particular engine they used here, but he soon
learned the secrets of it, and satisfied the officers in charge that he knew how to take one
apart and put it together again, to replace and mend tyres, to clean ball-bearings and true
crooked rims. "You're all right," they said. "And you're needed like the devil over there.
You won't have to wait long."

There was a platform where the trains came into the camp, and every few hours now there came
a long train to be loaded with men. Jimmie got his notice, and packed his kit and answered
roll call and took his place; at sundown of the next day he was detrained at a "mobilization-camp"--another
huge city, described in the cautious military fashion as "Somewhere in New Jersey", though
everybody within a hundred miles knew its exact location. Here was a port, created for the
purposes of war, with docks and wharves where the fleets of transports were loaded with supplies
and troops. The vessels sailed in fleets, carrying thirty or forty thousand men at once. From
the port of New York alone there was going out a fleet like this every week--the answer of
America to the new drive of the Hun.

One met here, not merely the fighting-men, but the forces of all the complicated service behind
the lines: gangs of lumbermen from the far North-west, who were to fell the forests of France
and make them into railroad-ties and timber for trenches; railway-men, miners, and construction-gangs,
engineers and signalmen, bridge-builders and road-makers, telephone-linemen and operators,
the drivers of forty thousand motor-cars and of five thousand locomotives; bakers and cooks,
menders of shoes and of clothing, farmers to till the soil of France, and doctors and nurses
to tend its sick and wounded. There was nothing which the skill and knowledge of a nation of
a hundred million people had to offer that was not gathered into this vast encampment. All
the youngest and keenest were here, eager to do their part, laughing at danger, tingling with
excitement, on tip-toe with curiosity and delight. Jimmie Higgins, watching them, found his
doubts melting like an April snow-storm. How could any man see this activity and not be caught
up in it? How could he be with these laughing boys and not share their mood?

Jimmie himself had not had a merry childhood, he did not know the youth of his own country--the
breezy, slangy, rather shocking, utterly irrepressible youth of this democratic world. If there
was anything they did not know--well, they did not know it; if there was anything they could
not do--their motto was: "Show me!" Jimmie, not having been to school, found himself having
a hard time with their weird slang. When one of these fellows hailed you, "Hey, pimp!" it did
not necessarily mean that he did not like you: when he greeted you, "Hey, sweetness!" it did
not mean that he felt for you any over-powering affection. If he referred to his officer as
"hard-boiled", he did not have in mind that this officer had been exposed to the action of
water at 212 degrees Fahrenheit; he merely meant that the officer was a snob. When he remarked,
"Good night!" in broad daylight, he meant you to understand that he disagreed with you.

He disagreed frequently and explosively with Jimmie Higgins, trying to point out a difference
between the German rulers and the German people! Such subtleties had no interest for these
all-knowing boys. When Jimmie persisted, they called him a "nut", a "poor cheese"; they told
him that he was "cuckoo", that his "trolley was twisted"; they made whirling motions with their
hands to indicate that he had "wheels in his head", they made flapping motions over him to
signify that there were "bats in his belfry". So Jimmie subsided, and let them talk their own
talk--imploring one another to "have a heart", or to "get wise", or to "make it snappy", or
to "cut out the rough stuff".

        CHORUS:

    Oh, Bill! Oh, Bill! We're on the job to-day!
    Oh, Bill! Oh, Bill! We'll seal you so you'll stay!
    We'll put you up in ginger in the good old Yankee way--
           While we are canning the Kaiser.

    Hear the song we're singing on the shining roads of France;
    Hear the Tommies cheering, and see the Poilus prance;
    Africanders and Kanucks and Scots without their pants--
           While we are canning the Kaiser. (Chorus)

    Bring the guns from Bethlehem, by way of old New York;
    Bring the beans from Boston, and don't leave out the pork;
    Bring a load of soda-pop and pull the grape-juice cork--
           While we are canning the Kaiser. (Chorus)

    Come you men from Dixieland, you lumberjacks of Maine;
    Come you Texas cowboys, and you farmers of the plain;
    Florida to Oregon, we boast the Yankee strain--
           While we are canning the Kaiser. (Chorus)

    Now we've started on the job we mean to put it through;
    Ship the kings and kaisers all, and make the world anew;
    Clear the way for common folk, for men like me and you--
           While we are canning the Kaiser.

CHAPTER XX

JIMMIE HIGGINS TAKES A SWIM

I

You did not stop very long in the mobilization-camp, for the arrival of your train was timed
with the arrival of the ship on which you were to sail. You had a meal, sometimes you slept
a night, then you marched to the docks. Nor was there much of the traditional "sweet sorrow"
about the departure of these great fleets; the weeping mothers and sisters had not been notified
to be present, and the ladies of the canteen-service had given coffee and sandwiches, cigarettes
and chocolate, to so many tens of thousands that they had forgotten about tears. It was like
the emigration of a nation; the part of America that was now on the other side was so large
that nobody would need to feel homesick.

Jimmie's embarking was done at night; on the long, covered piers, lighted by arc-lights, the
soldiers set down their kits and stood about, munching food, singing songs, and keeping one
another's wits sharpened for battle. They filtered on board, and then without a light or a
sound the vessel stole down the long stretches of the harbour, and out to sea. One never knew
at what hour the enemy submarines might attempt a raid on the American side, so the entrance
to the harbour was mined and blockaded, a narrow passage being opened when the ships passed
through.

When morning came the convoy was out at sea, amid glorious green rollers, and Jimmie Higgins
was lying in his narrow berth, cursing the fates that had lured him, the monster of Militarism
into whose clutches he had been snared. The army medical service had a serum to prevent small-pox
and another to prevent typhoid, but they had nothing for sea-sickness as yet; so for the first
four days of the trip Jimmie wished that a submarine would come and end his misery once for all.

At last, however, he came on deck, an utterly humbled Socialist agitator, asking only a corner
to lie in the sunshine--preferably where he could not see the Atlantic surges, the very thought
of which turned him inside out. But gradually he found his feet again, and ate with permanence,
and looked out over the water and saw the other vessels of the convoy, weirdly painted with
many-coloured splotches, steaming in the shape of a gigantic V, with two cruisers in front,
and another on each side, and another bringing up the rear. Day and night the look-outs kept
watch, and the wigwag men and the heliograph men were busy, and the wireless buzzed its warnings
of the movements of the underwater foe. The U-boats had not yet got a transport, but they had
made several tries, and everyone knew that they would continue trying. Twice a day the clanging
of bells sounded from one end of the vessel to the other, and the crews rushed to the boat-drill;
each passenger had his number, and unless he was ill in his berth he had to take his specified
place, with his life-preserver strapped about his waist.

The passengers played cards, and read and sang and skylarked about the decks. Up on the top
deck, to which Jimmie was not invited, were officers, also a number of women and girls belonging
to the hospital and ambulance units. "Janes" was the term by which the soldier-boys described
these latter; you could see they were a good sort of "Janes", serious and keen for their job,
looking business-like and impressive in their uniforms with many pockets. Among them were suffragists,
answering the taunt of the other sex, showing that in war as well as in peace the world needed
them; it had to find a place for them on board the most badly crowded transport.

Never having been on an ocean-liner before, Jimmie did not know that it was crowded; it did
not trouble him that there was hardly room for a walk on the decks. He watched the sea and
the great white gulls and the piebald ships; he watched the crew at work, and got acquainted
with his fellow-passengers. Before long he found a driver of an ambulance who was a Socialist;
also an I.W.W. from the Oregon lumber-camps. Even the "wobblies", it appeared, had come to
hate the Kaiser; a bunch of them were in France, and more would have come, if the government
had not kept them cross by putting their leaders into jail. An army officer with some sense
had gone into the spruce-country of the far North-west, and had appealed to the patriotism
of the men, giving them decent hours and wages, and recognizing their unions; as a result,
even the dreaded I.W.W. organization had turned tame, and all the lumberjacks had pitched in
to help in "canning the Kaiser!"

II

The fleet was nearing the submarine-zone and it was time for the convoying destroyers to arrive.
Everybody was peering out ahead, and at last a cry ran along the decks: "There they are!" Jimmie
made out a speck of smoke upon the horizon, and saw it turn into a group of swiftly-flying
vessels. He marvelled at the skill whereby they had been able to find the transports on this
vast and trackless sea; he marvelled at the slender vessels with their four low, rakish stacks.
These sea-terriers were thin skins of steel, covering engines of enormous power; they tore
through the water, literally with the speed of an express train, leaving a boiling white wake
behind. Seeing them rock and swing from side to side in the waves, hurled this way and that,
you marvelled that human beings could live in them and not be jerked to pieces. Jimmie never
tired of observing them, nor did they tire of racing in and out between the vessels of the
convoy, weaving patterns of foam, the men on their decks watching, watching for the secret foe.

Everyone on board the transports, of course, was on the alert. Jimmie in his secret heart was
scared stiff, but he did not reveal it to these mocking soldier-boys, who made merry over German
U-boats as they did over sauerkraut and pretzels and Limburger and "wienies", otherwise known
as "hot dogs". Actually, Jimmie found, they were hoping to encounter a submarine; not to be
hit, of course, but to have the torpedo pass within a foot or two, so that they might have
something thrilling to write to the folks at home.

There came storms, and blinding sheets of rain across the water, and mists that hid everything
from view; but still the little sea-terriers dashed here and there, winding their foam wakes
about the fleet, by night as well as by day. How they managed to avoid collisions in the dark
was a mystery beyond imagining; Jimmie lay awake, picturing one of them plunging like a sharp
spear into the rows of bunks in the steerage where he had been stowed. But when morning dawned,
his berth was unspeared, and the watch-dogs of the sea were still weaving their patterns.

It was a day of high wind, with clouds and fitful bursts of sunshine in which the waves shone
white and sparkling. Jimmie was standing by the fail with his "wobbly" friend, watching the
white-caps, when his companion called his attention to a sparkle that seemed to persist, hitting
one in the eye. They pointed it out to others, and as the orders were strict to report anything
out of the way, someone shouted to the nearest look-out. A cry went over the ship, and there
was hasty wigwagging of the signalman, and three of the destroyers leaped away like hounds
on the chase.

There were some on board who had glasses, and they cried out that it was a black object, and
finally reported it a raft with people on it. Later, when Jimmie reached port, he heard an
explanation of the sparkle which had caught his eye--a woman on the raft had a little pocket-mirror,
and had used this to flash the sun's rays upon the vessel, until at last she had attracted
attention.

Those who had glasses were mostly on the upper deck, so Jimmie did not see anything of the
rescue; the transports, of course, did not swerve or delay, for their orders forbade all altruisms.
Even the little destroyers would not approach the raft until they had scoured the sea for miles
about, and then they did not stop entirely, but slid by and tossed ropes to the people on the
raft, dragging them aboard one by one. A seaman standing near Jimmie explained this procedure;
it appeared that the submarines were accustomed to lurk near rafts and life-boats, preying
upon those vessels which came to their rescue. Distressed castaways were bait--"live bait",
explained the seaman; the U-boats would lurk about for days, sometimes for a week, watching
the people in the life-boats struggle against the waves, watching them die of exposure, and
starvation and thirst, watching them signal frantically, waving rags tied on to oars, shouting
and praying for help. One by one the castaways would perish, and when the last of them was
gone, the U-boat would steal away. "Dead bait's no good," explained the seaman.

III

This mariner, Toms by name, came from Cornwall; for the transport was British, and so also
the convoying warships--Jimmie's fate had been entrusted to "perfidious Albion"! Seven times
this Toms had been torpedoed and seven times rescued, and he had most amazing tales to tell
to landlubbers, and a new light to throw on a subject which our Socialist landlubber had been
debating for several years--the torpedoing of passenger-vessels with women and children on
board. Somehow Jimmie found it a different proposition when he heard of particular women and
children, how they looked and what they said, and what happened when they took to open boats
in midwinter, and the boats filled up with water, and the children turned blue and then white,
and were rescued with noses and ears and hands and feet frozen off.

Jimmie was a working-man, and understood the language of working-men, their standards and ways
of looking at life. And here was a working-man; not a conscious Socialist, to be sure, but
a union man, sharing the Socialist distrust of capitalists and rulers. What this weather-bitten
toiler of the sea told to Jimmie, Jimmie was prepared to understand and believe; so he learned,
what he had refused to learn from prostitute newspapers, that there was a code of sea-manners
and sea-morals, a law of marine decency, which for centuries had been unbroken save by pirates
and savages. The men who went down to the sea in ships were a class of their own, with instincts
born of the peculiar cruelties of the element they defied--instincts which broke across all
barriers of nations and races, and even across the hatreds of war.

But now these sea-laws had been defied, and the Hun who had defied them had placed himself
outside the pale of the human race. In the souls of seamen there had been generated against
him a hatred of peculiar and unique ferocity; they hunted him as men hunt vipers and rattlesnakes.
The union to which this Toms belonged had pledged itself, not merely for the war, but for years
afterwards, that its members would not sail in German ships, nor in any ship in which a German
sailed, nor in any ship which sailed to a German port, nor which carried German goods. It had
refused to carry Socialist delegates desiring to attend international conferences with German
Socialists; it had refused to carry for any purpose labour leaders whom it considered too mercifully
disposed towards Germany.

When Jimmie learned this, you can imagine the arguments, continuing far into the night! Quite
a crowd gathered about, and they gave it to the little Socialist hot and heavy. The upshot
of it was that somebody reported him, and the officer in command of his "motor-unit" read him
a stern lecture. He was not here to settle peace-terms, but to do his work and hold his tongue.
Jimmie, awed by the fangs and claws of the monster of Militarism, answered, "Yes, sir," and
went away and sulked by himself the whole day, wishing that the submarines might get this transport,
with everybody on board except two Socialists and one "wobbly".

IV

It was the morning of the day they were due in port. Everybody wore life-preservers, and stood
at his station; when suddenly came a yell, and a chorus of shouts from the side of the ship,
and Jimmie rushed to the rail, and saw a white wake coming like a swift fish directly at the
vessel. "Torpedo!" was the cry, and men stood rooted to the spot. Far back, where the white
streak started, you could see a periscope, moving slowly; there was a volley of cracking sounds,
and the water all about it leaped high, and the little sea-terriers rushed towards it, firing,
and getting ready their deadly depth-bombs. But of all that Jimmie got only a glimpse; there
came a roar like the opening of hell in front of him; he was thrown to the deck, half-stunned,
and a huge fragment of the rail of the vessel whirled past his head, smashing into a stateroom
behind him.

The ship was in an uproar; people rushing here and there, the members of the crew leaping to
get away the boats. Jimmie sat up and stared about him, and the first thing he saw was his
friend the "wobbly", lying in a pool of blood, with a great gash in his head.

Suddenly somebody began to sing: "Oh, say, can you see by the dawn's early light--" Jimmie
had always hated that song, because jingoes and patrioteers used it as an excuse to bully and
humiliate radicals who did not jump to their feet with sufficient alacrity. But now it was
wonderful to see the effect of the song; everybody joined and the soldier-boys and working-men
and nurses and lady ambulance-drivers, no matter how badly scared, recalled that they were
part of an army on the way to war. Some helped the crews to get the boats into the water; others
bound up the wounds of the injured, and carried them across the rapidly-slanting decks.

The great ship was going down. It was horrible to realize--this mighty structure, this home
for two weeks of several thousand people, this moving hotel with its sleeping-berths, its dining-saloons,
its kitchens with lunch ready to be eaten, its mighty engines and its cargo of every kind of
necessity and comfort for an army--all was about to plunge to the bottom of the sea! Jimmie
Higgins had read about the torpedoing of scores of ocean-liners, but in all that reading he
had learned less about the matter than he learned in a few minutes while he clung half-dazed
to a stay rope, and watched the life-boats swing out over the sides and disappear.

V

"Women first!" was the cry; but the women would not go until the wounded had been taken, and
this occasioned delay. Jimmie helped to get his friend the "wobbly", and passed him on to be
lowered with a rope. By that time the deck had got such a slant that it was hard to walk on
it; the bow was settling, and the stern rearing up in the air. Never could you have realized
the size of an ocean-liner, until you saw it rear itself up like a monstrous mountain, preparatory
to plunging beneath the waves! "Jump for it!" shouted voices. "They'll pick you up from the
other vessels. Jump and swim."

So Jimmie rushed to the rail. He saw a life-boat below, trying to push away, and being beaten
against the vessel by the heavy waves. He heard a horrible scream, and saw a man slip between
the boat and the side of the liner. People on every side of him were jumping--so many that
he could not find a clear spot in the water. But at last he saw one, and climbed upon the rail
and took the plunge.

He struck the icy water and sank, and a wave rolled over him. He came up quickly, owing to
his life-preserver, and gasped for breath, and was choked by another rushing wave and then
pounded on the head by an oar in the hands of a struggling sailor. He managed to get out of
the way, and struck out to get clear of the vessel. He knew how to do this, thanks to many
"swimmin'-holes"--including the one he had visited with the Candidate. But he had never before
swam in such deadly cold as this; it was colder than he had dreamed when he had talked about
it with Comrade Meissner! Its icy hand seemed to smite him, to smite the life out of him; he
struggled desperately, as one struggles against suffocation.

The waves beat him here and there; and then suddenly he was seized as if by the falls of Niagara,
drawn along and drawn under--down, down. He thought it was the end, and when again he bobbed
up to the surface, his breath was all but gone. The great bulk of the vessel was no longer
in sight, and Jimmie was struggling in a whirlpool, along with upset boats and oars and deck-chairs
and miscellaneous wreckage, and scores of people clinging to such objects, or swimming frantically
to reach them.

Jimmie was just about ready to roll over and let his face go under, when suddenly there loomed
above him on the top of a wave a boat rowed swiftly by sailors. One in the boat flung a rope
to him, and he tried to catch it, but missed; the boat plunged towards him, and an arm reached
out, and caught him by the collar. It was a strong and comforting arm, and Jimmie abandoned
himself to it, and remembered nothing more for a long time.

VI

When Jimmie opened his eyes again he was in a most extraordinary position. At first he could
not make it out, he was only aware of endless bruises and blows, as if someone were shaking
him about in a gigantic pepper-cruet. As Nature protested desperately against such treatment,
Jimmie fought his way back to consciousness, and caught hold of something, in his neighbourhood,
which presently turned out to be a brass railing; he struggled to ward off the blows of his
tormentors, which turned out to be the aforesaid railing, plus a wall, plus two other men,
one on each side of him, the three of them being lashed to the brass railing with ropes. The
wall and railing and Jimmie and the other men were behaving in an incredible fashion--swinging
down, as if they were plunging into a bottomless abyss, then swinging up, as if they were going
to part altogether from this mundane sphere; the total enormous swing, from bottom to top,
being mathematically calculated to occupy a period of five and one-half seconds of time.

Jimmie discovered before long that there were a whole row of men, lashed fast and subjected
to this perplexing form of torture. They made you think of a row of carcasses in a butcher-shop--only,
who could picture a butcher-shop whose floor careened to an angle of forty-five degrees in
one direction, and then, in a space of precisely five and a half seconds, careened to an angle
of forty-five degrees in the opposite direction?

And they kept bringing more carcasses and hanging them in this insane butcher-shop! Two sailors
in uniforms would come staggering, carrying a man between them, clinging to the railing, to
Jimmie, to the other men, to anything else they could grab. They would make a desperate rush
while the swing was right, and get to a new place on the railing, where they would tie the
new man with a bit of rope about his waist, and leave him there to be mauled and pounded. One
side of the room was lined solid with carcasses, and then the other side, and still they came.
This was apparently a dining-saloon, there being a table down the middle, and two rows of chairs;
they lashed people into these chairs, they brought others and lashed them to the bottom of
the chairs--any old place at all! There were some who thought they could hold on for themselves;
but after the sailors were gone they discovered that it took more skill to hold on than they
realized, and they would come hurtling across the floor, winding up with a crash on top of
someone else.

It was not the first time in Jimmie's life that he had had to scramble for himself in some
uncomfortable situation; he got his wits together quickly. He was shivering as if with ague,
and he managed to get out of his wet coat. There being a couple of ladies strapped into chairs
in front of him, he did not like to go further; but presently came sailors with armfuls of
blankets, and made him perform the complicated feat of getting out of his dripping icy uniform
and getting the blanket wrapped around his middle, so that the rope would not saw him into
halves. Then came a steward with a pot of hot coffee; being marvellously expert at holding
this at all angles of the ship, he poured it into cups with little funnels for drinking, and
thus got some down Jimmie's throat.

The little machinist felt better after that, and was able to devote attention to the man on
his right, who had hit his nose so many times that it was bleeding in a stream, and had been
tilted at so many angles that the blood had run into his eyes and made him blind. The man on
the other side of him apparently could make no effort at all to keep his face from being pounded,
or his feet from being thrown into the pit of Jimmie's stomach; after Jimmie made a number
of protests, an officer came along, and put his ear to the man's chest and pronounced him dead.
They brought another rope, and lashed him tighter, so that he would behave himself.

For several hours Jimmie clung to that railing. The destroyer would soon be in port, they kept
telling him; meantime they brought him hot soup to keep up his strength. Some people fainted,
but there was nothing that could be done for them. The first boat-loads of the rescued had
filled up the berths of both officers and crew; the rest must hang on to the railings as best
they could. They should be thankful it was decent weather, said one of the sailors; the vessel
didn't roll any faster in bad weather, but it rolled much farther in the same time--a distinction
which struck Jimmie as over-subtle.

The poor fellow's arms were numb with exhaustion, he had lost hope that anything in the world
ever could be still, when the announcement was made that the harbour was in sight, and everybody's
troubles would soon be over. And sure enough, the rolling gradually became less. The little
vessel still quivered from stem to stern with the movement of her enormous engines, but Jimmie
didn't mind that--he was used to machinery; he got himself untied from the railing, and lay
down on the floor, right there where he was, and fell asleep. Nor did he open his eyes when
they came with a stretcher, and carried him on to a pier and slid him into a motor-truck and
whisked him off to a hospital.

CHAPTER XXI

JIMMIE HIGGINS ENTERS SOCIETY

I

When Jimmie took an interest in life again he was lying in a bed: a bed that actually was still,
that did not rise with a leaping motion to the ceiling, and then sink like a swift elevator
into the basement. Better yet was the fact that this bed had clean sheets, and a lovely angel
in spotless white hovering about it. You who read of Jimmie Higgins's adventures have perhaps
been blessed with some of the good things of life, and may need to have it explained to you
that never before had Jimmie known what it was to sleep between sheets--to say nothing of clean
sheets; never had he known what it was to sleep in a night-gown; never had he had hot broth
fetched to him by a snow-white angel with a bright smile and an aureole of golden-brown hair.
This marvellous creature waited on his slightest nod, and when she was not busy running errands
for him, she sat by his bedside and chatted, asking him all sorts of questions about himself
and his life. She thought he was a soldier, and he, shameless wretch, discovered what she thought,
and delayed to tell her that he was a common repairer of motor-cycles!

This was a war-hospital, and there were terrible sights to be seen here, terrible sounds to
be heard; but Jimmie for a long time missed them almost entirely--he was so comfortable! He
lay like a nice dozy cat; he ate good things and drank good things, and then he fell asleep,
and then he opened his eyes in the sunshine of a golden brown aureole. It was only gradually
that he realized that somewhere in the ward a man was choking and gasping all night, because
the inside of his lungs had been partly eaten out with poisonous acids.

Jimmie inquired and was told that more than a hundred people on the transport had lost their
lives, including several women; the nurse brought a paper with a list of the casualties, among
which he read the name of Mike Angoni--his friend the "wobbly" from the far West! Also the
name of Peter Toms--the seaman from Cornwall, caught at the eighth attempt! Jimmie read that
the submarine which had sunk the transport had been shattered by a depth-charge, and the sea
all strewn with the wreckage of it; and strange and terrible as it might seem, Jimmie, the
pacifist, the Socialist, experienced a thrill of satisfaction! Not once did he stop to reflect
that on board this under-water craft might have been some German comrade, some poor, enslaved,
unhappy internationalist like himself! Jimmie wanted the sneaking, treacherous terrors of the
sea exterminated, regardless of everything!

The nurse with the halo of golden-brown hair got interested in her American patient, and would
sit and talk with him every chance she got. She learned about Eleeza Betooser and the babies
who had been blown to pieces in the explosion. Also she learned about Jimmie's being a Socialist,
and asked him questions about it. Wasn't he just a little hard on the leisure classes? Might
it not be that some of the capitalists would be as glad as he to know about a better social
system? The young lady pronounced the word "capitalists" with the accent on the "it", which
puzzled Jimmie for a time; also she assured him that "wage schedules" would never go back to
what they were before the war, and Jimmie had to ask what a "schedule" might be. He did not
have to ask what she meant by a "tart", because there it was on his tray--a delicious little
strawberry pie.

II

This meant that the destroyer had come to an English port; the nurse was a Britisher. If Jimmie
had had tact, he would have remembered that Britishers have an outfit of earls and dukes and
lords and things, to which they are sentimentally attached. But tact is not the leading virtue
of Socialists; in fact, Jimmie made a boast of scorning it--if people asked his opinion, he
"gave it to 'em straight". So now he caused this white angel to understand that he regarded
the effete aristocracies of the old world with abysmal contempt; he meant to put them out of
business right off the bat. In vain the white angel pleaded that some of them might be useful
people, or at any rate well-meaning: Jimmie pronounced them a bunch of parasites and grafters;
the thing to do was to make a clean sweep of them.

"You won't cut off their heads?" pleaded the nurse. "Surely they ought to have a chance to reform!"

"Oh, sure!" answered Jimmie. "All I mean is, everybody's got to go to work--the dooks an' aristercrats
like the rest."

The nurse went off, carrying Jimmie's chamber to be emptied; and while she was gone, the man
in the next bed, a gun-pointer from an American destroyer with his head bandaged up so that
he looked like a Hindu swami, turned his tired eyes upon Jimmie and drawled: "Say, you guy,
you better can that line o' talk!"

"Whaddyer mean?" demanded Jimmie, scenting controversy with some militarist.

"I mean that there young lady belongs to the nobility herself."

"Go on!" said Jimmie.

"Straight!" said the other. "Her father's the earl of Skye-terrier, or some such damn place."

"Aw, cut it out!" growled the little machinist--for you never knew in dealing with these soldier-boys
whether you were being "kidded" or not.

"Did you ask her name?"

"She told me it was Miss Clendenning."

"Well, you ask her if she ain't the Honourable Beatrice Clendenning, and see what she says."

But Jimmie could not get up the nerve to ask. When the young lady came back, carrying his chamber
washed clean, her pet patient was lying still, but so red in the face that she suspected that
he had been trying to get out of bed without permission.

III

Nor was that the end of wonders. Next day there ran a murmur of excitement through the ward,
and everything was cleaned up fresh, though there was really nothing that needed cleaning.
Flowers were brought in, and each nurse had a flower pinned on her waist. When Jimmie asked
what was "up", the Honourable Beatrice looked at him with a quizzical smile. "We're going to
have some distinguished visitors," she said. "But you won't be interested--a class-conscious
proletarian like you."

And she would not tell him; but when she went out, the fellow in the next bed told. "It's the
king and queen that's comin'," said the gun-pointer.

"Aw, ferget it!" said Jimmie--quite sure he was being "kidded" this time.

"Comin' to see the submarine victims," said the gun-pointer. "You cut out your Socialist rough
stuff for to-day."

Jimmie asked the nurse when she came back; and sure enough it was true--the king and queen
were to visit the hospital, and pay their respects to the victims of the U-boat. But that wouldn't
interest Jimmie Higgins. Would he not rather be carried away and put in a private room somewhere,
so that his revolutionary eyes would not be offended? Or would he stay, and make a soap-boxer
of His Majesty?

"Sure, he won't have no time to talk to a feller like me!" said Jimmie.

"Don't you be too sure," replied the other. "He's got nothing to do but talk, you know!"

Jimmie didn't venture any farther, because he knew that the Honourable Beatrice was laughing
at him, and he had never been laughed at by a woman before, and didn't know quite how to take
it. He could not have been expected to understand that the Honourable Beatrice was a suffragette,
and laughed at all men on general principles. Jimmie lay quietly in his bed and concealed the
unworthy excitement in his soul. Wasn't that the devil now? Him, a little runt of a working
man from nowhere in particular, that had been brought up on a charity-farm, and spent a good
part of his life as a tramp--him to be meeting the king of England! Jimmie had a way of disposing
of kings that was complete and final; he called them "kinks" and when he had called them that
he had settled them, wiped them clean out. "None o' them kinks for me!" he had said to the
Honourable Beatrice.

But now a "kink" was coming to the hospital! And what was Jimmie going to do? How the devil
did you talk to 'em? Did you have to say, "Your Majesty"? Jimmie gripped his hands under the
bed-covers. "I'll be damned if I do!" What would they do under these circumstances? What would
the Candidate do? Somehow, Jimmie's revolutionary education had been neglected--nothing had
ever been said in any Socialist local as to how a comrade should behave when a "kink" came
to visit him!

Jimmy was naturally a kindly human being; he was ready to respond to the kindness of other
human beings. But was it in accord with revolutionary ethics to be polite to a "kink"? Was
it not his duty to do something to show his contempt for "kinks"? Maybe his Royal Nibs never
had anybody to "stand up to him" in all his life before. Well, let him have it to-day!

IV

A nurse rushed into the ward in great excitement, and whispered, "They're coming!" And after
that the nurses all stood round, twisting their hands together nervously, and the patients
lay with their eyes glued on the door where the apparition was to appear.

At last there came in sight a man dressed in uniform, who Jimmie would never have dreamed could
be a king--except that he had seen his picture in the illustrated papers. He was a medium-sized,
rather stoop-shouldered little gentleman, decidedly commonplace-looking, with a closely-trimmed
brown beard turning grey, and rosy cheeks such as all Englishmen have. He was escorted by the
head of the hospital staff; and behind him came a lady, a severe-looking lady dressed in black,
with a couple more doctors escorting her, and behind them several officers in uniform.

The king and queen stopped at the head of the room, and looked down the rows of beds. Each
of them wore a friendly smile, and nodded, and said: "How do you do?" And, of course, everybody
smiled back, and the nurses curtsied and said, "How do you do, Your Majesties?"

And then His Majesty said: "I hope everybody is doing well?" And the doctor called the head
nurse in charge of the ward, who came up smiling and bowing and answered that everybody was
doing beautifully, thank you; at which both His Majesty and Her Majesty declared that they
were so pleased. The queen looked about, and seeing a man with many bandages, went to him and
sat by his bedside and began to ask him questions; the king moved down the centre of the room,
until suddenly his eye happened on the Honourable Beatrice.

She had not moved; she stood at her place like the other nurses. But Jimmie, watching, saw
a smile come upon the king's face, and he moved towards her saying: "Oh! how do you do?" The
young lady went to meet him, quite as if she were used to meeting kings every day.

"How are your patients doing?" inquired His Majesty.

"Beautifully," said she; and His Majesty said that he was pleased--just as if he had not said
the same words only a minute before. He looked at the patients with benevolent but tired-looking
eyes; and the Honourable Beatrice, by those subtle methods known to women, brought it about
that he looked especially at her favourite. She knew that he would wish to talk to some of
the patients, and by ever so slight a movement she brought it about that it was towards Jimmie
Higgins he advanced.

"What is your name?" he asked, and then, "Well, Higgins, how are you feeling?"

"Sure, I'm all right," said Jimmie sturdily; "I wanner get up, only she won't let me."

"Well," said His Majesty, "the time was when the king was the tyrant, but now it's the nurse."
He smiled at the Honourable lady. "Are you an American soldier?"

"Naw," replied Jimmie, "I'm only a machinist."

"This is a war of machines," replied His Majesty, graciously.

"I'm a Socialist!" exclaimed Jimmie, right off the bat.

"Indeed!" said His Majesty.

"You bet!" was the reply.

"But you're not one of those Socialists who oppose their country, I see."

"I done it for a long time," said Jimmie. "I didn't see we had no business in this here war.
But I been changin'--a bit."

"I'm glad to hear that," remarked His Majesty. "Doubtless your recent experience has helped
you to change."

"Sure," replied Jimmie. "But I'm still a Socialist, don't you make no mistake about that, Mr.
King."

"I won't," said His Majesty; and he looked at the Honourable Beatrice, and between them there
flashed one of those subtle messages which highly sophisticated people know how to give and
to catch--entirely over the heads of Socialist machinists from Leesville, U.S.A. To the Honourable
Beatrice the message conveyed. "How perfectly delicious!" To His Majesty it conveyed, "I knew
you'd enjoy it!"

Jimmie's mind was, of course, occupied entirely with the idea of propaganda. He must make the
most of this strange opportunity! "Things is goin' to be changed after this here war!" said
he. "Fer the workin' people, I mean."

"They'll be changed for all of us," said His Majesty. "The dullest of us know that."

"The workin' people got to get what they earn!" persisted Jimmie. "Why, Mr. King--back home
where I come from a feller could work twelve hours a day all his life, an' not have enough
saved up to bury himself with. An' they say it was worse here in England."

"We have had terrible poverty," admitted His Majesty. "We shall have to find some way of getting
rid of it."

"There ain't no way but Socialism," cried Jimmie. "Look into it, an' you'll see! We gotter
get rid o' the profit-system. The feller that does the work has gotter get what he produces."

"Well," said His Majesty, "you'll agree with me this far at least--we must beat the Germans
first." And then he turned to the Honourable Beatrice. "We shall learn much from our American
visitors," he said, and flashed her another of those subtle messages, which indicated that
perhaps it was not a good thing for patients in hospitals to become excited over Socialist
propaganda! So the Honourable Beatrice turned to the man in the other bed, and His Majesty
turned also; he ascertained that the man's name was Deakin, and that he came from Cape Cod.
His Majesty remarked how badly England needed good Yankee gun-pointers, and how grateful he
was to those who came to help the British Navy. Jimmie listened, just a tiny bit jealous--not
for himself, of course, but because he knew that Socialism was so much more important than
gun-pointing!

V

At the foot of the bed there stood a military officer. He had been there for some time, but
Jimmie did not notice him till the king rose and moved away. The officer was just the sort
of hand-made aristocrat that Jimmie imagined all officers to be; smooth-shaven, except for
a little toy moustache, with serene, impassive features, a dapper and immaculate uniform, and
a queer little fancy stick in his hand, to show that he never did anything resembling work.
He was eyeing the machinist with what the machinist suspected to be a superior air. "Well,
my good man," said he, "you had a talk with the king!"

That seemed obvious enough. "Sure!" said Jimmie.

"Generally," continued the officer, "when one talks with the king, one addresses him as 'Your
Majesty'--not as 'Mr. King'."

Jimmie was tired now, and not looking for controversy; so he did not bridle as he might otherwise
have done. "Nobody told me," said he.

"Also," continued the other, "one is not supposed to volunteer opinions. One waits for the
king to ask a question, and then one answers."

Jimmie's eyes were closed, and he only half-opened them as he answered. "They been tellin'
me this here is a war for Democracy!" said he.

CHAPTER XXII

JIMMIE HIGGINS WORKS FOR HIS UNCLE

I

They gave Jimmie Higgins a couple of days to lie about in the grounds of the hospital, and
make the acquaintance and hear the experiences of men who had lost arms and legs in battle,
or had been burned by flame-throwers, or ruined for life by poison-gases. Strange as it might
seem, Jimmie found among these men not a few with whom he could talk, whose point of view was
close to his own. These Britishers had been through the mill; they knew. None of the glory
stuff for them! Leave that for the newspaper scribblers, the bloody rascals who stayed at home
and beat on tomtoms, driving other men to march in and die. You went and got yourself battered
up, ruined for life--and then what would they do for you? It was a hard world to a man who
was crippled and helpless. Yes, said Jimmie; the same hard world that it was to a Socialist,
a dreamer of justice.

But there was the old dilemma, from which he had never been able to find escape, whether in
Leesville, U.S.A., or on the high seas, or here in old England. What were you going to do about
the Huns? To hold out your hand to them was like putting it into a tiger's cage. No, by God,
you had to fight them, you had to lick them, cost what it might! And the speaker would go on
and tell of things he had seen: a Prussian officer who had shot a British surgeon in the back,
after this surgeon had bound up his wounds; a commandant of a prison-camp who had withdrawn
all medical aid in a typhus epidemic, and allowed his charges to perish like rats.

So, hell though it was, you had to go through with it; if you were a man, you had to set your
teeth and grip your hands and take your share of the horror, whatever it might be. And Jimmie,
being something of a little man in his way, would set his teeth and grip his hands and take
in imagination, the share of the particular human wreck who happened to be talking to him.
So Jimmie Higgins was battered back and forth, like a tennis-ball, between the two forces of
Militarism and Revolution.

Just now was another crisis--the Huns had begun a furious drive in Flanders, the third battle
of Ypres, and the British were falling back, not in rout, but in retreat which might become
rout at any hour. The bulletins came in several times a day, and people in the streets would
stop and read them, their faces full of fear. When the wind was right you could hear the guns
across the Channel; Jimmie would lie at night and listen to the dull, incessant thunder--a
terrific, man-made storm, in which showers of steel were raining down upon the heads of soldiers
hiding in shell-holes and hastily-dug trenches. The war seemed very near indeed when the wind
was right!

II

Still, a fellow has to live. Jimmie was in a foreign land for the first time in his life, and
when they turned him loose, he and a couple of other American chaps went wandering about the
streets, staring at the sights of this town, which had been a small harbour before the war,
but now was a vast centre of the world's commerce, one of the routes by which large sections
of Britain were moved across the Channel every day.

You saw in the streets no men out of uniform, except a few old ones; you saw nobody at all
idle, except the young children. The women were driving the trucks, and operating the street-cars,
which were called "trams", and the elevators, which were called "lifts". Everybody's face was
sober and drawn, but they lightened up when they saw the Americans, who had come so far to
help them in their trouble. In the cake-shops, and the queer little "pubs" where rosy-cheeked
girls sold very thin beer, they could not be polite enough to the visitors from overseas; even
the haughtiest-looking "bobby" would stop to tell you the way about the streets. "First to
the roight, third to the left," he would say, very fast; and when you looked bewildered, he
would say it again, as fast as ever.

But they needed motor-cycles so badly in the new American armies that they didn't give Jimmie
much time to be a hero; he got his orders and a new outfit, and bade farewell to the Honourable
Beatrice, promising to write to her now and then, and not to be too hard on the aristocracy.
He crossed the Channel, alive with boats like the Hudson River with its ferries, and came to
another and still bigger port, which the Americans had taken and made over new for the war.
Long vistas of docks had been built since the fighting began; Jimmie saw huge cranes that dipped
down into the hold of a ship, and pulled out whole locomotives, or maybe half a dozen automobile
trucks in one swoop.

Behind these docks was a tangle of railroad yards and tracks, and miles upon miles of sheds,
piled to the top with stores of every sort you could imagine. A whole encampment-city covered
the surrounding hills, crowned by an old, creaking, moss-grown windmill--the Middle Ages looking
in dismay upon these modern times.

Nobody took the trouble to invite Jimmie to inspect these marvels, but he got glimpses here
and there, and men with whom he chatted told him more. One man had been directing the unloading
of canned tomatoes; for six months he had seen nothing but crates upon crates and car-loads
upon car-loads of canned tomatoes, coming into one end of a shed and going out at the other.
Somewhere in the higher regions dwelt a marvellous tomato-brain, which knew exactly how many
cans a division of dough-boys in a training-camp would consume each day, how many would be
needed by patients in hospitals, by lumbermen in French forests, by revellers in Y.M.C.A. huts.
Every now and then a ship brought another supply, and the man who told Jimmie about it bossed
a gang of negroes who piled the crates on trucks.

And then Jimmie met a Frenchman, who had been a waiter in a Chicago hotel, and now was bossing
a gang of wire-haired Korean labourers. Jimmie had thought he knew all the races of the earth
in the shops and mills and mines of America; but here he heard of new kinds of men--Annamese
and Siamese, Pathans and Sikhs, Madagascans and Abyssinians and Algerians. All the British
empire was here, and all the French colonies. There were Portuguese and Brazilians and West
Indians, bushmen from Australia and Zulus from South Africa; and these not having proven enough,
America was now pouring out the partly melted contents of her pot--Hawaiians and Porto Ricans,
Filipinos and "spiggoties", Eskimos from Alaska, Chinamen from San Francisco, Sioux from Dakota,
and plain black plantation niggers from Louisiana and Alabama! Jimmie saw a gang of these latter
mending a track which had been blown out of place by a bomb from an aeroplane; their black
skins shining with sweat, their white teeth shining with good-nature as they swung their heavy
crow-bars, a long row of them moving like a machine chanting to keep in unison, "Altogether--heave!"
the officer would call, and the line would swing into motion--

    "Get a MULE!
     An' a JACK!
     No SLOW!
     No SLACK!
     Put the HUMP!
     In yo' BACK--"

III

For nearly four years Jimmie had been reading about France, and now he was here, and could
see the sights with his own eyes. People with wooden shoes, for example! It was worth coming
across the seas to see women and kids going clatter, clatter along the cobbled streets. And
the funny little railroad-coaches, with rows of doors like rabbit-pens. It was a satisfaction
to notice that the train had a real man-sized engine, with U.S.A. painted thereon. Jimmie owned
a share in that engine, and experienced Socialistic thrills as he rode behind it.

He had got separated from his "unit", thanks to the submarine and the sojourn in the hospital.
They had given him a pass, with orders to proceed to a certain town, travelling on a certain
train. Now Jimmie sat looking out of the window, as happy as a boy out of school. A beautiful
country, the fresh green glory of spring everywhereupon it; broad, straight military highways
lined with poplars, and stone houses with queer steep roofs, and old men and women and children
toiling in the fields.

Jimmie chattered with the men in the compartment, soldiers and workers, each a cog in the big
machine, each bound upon some important errand. Each had news to tell--tales of the fighting,
or of the progress of preparation. For more than a year now America had been getting ready,
and here, in the most desperate crisis of the war, what was she going to do? Everybody was
on tip-toe with excitement, with impatience to get into the scrap, to make good in the work
upon which his soul was set. Every man knew that the "dough-boys" would show themselves the
masters of "Fritz"; they knew it as religious people know there is a God in Heaven--only, unlike
most religious people, they were anxious to get to this heaven and meet this God at the earliest
possible moment. Next to Jimmie sat a Wisconsin farmer-boy, German in features, in name, even
in accent; yet he was ready to fight the soldiers of the Kaiser--and quite sure he could lick
them! Had he not lived since childhood in a free country, and been to an American public-school?

Everybody had funny stories to tell about the adventures of soldiers in a foreign land. The
French were all right, of course, especially the girls; but the shop-keepers were frugal, and
you had better count your change, and bite the coins they offered you. As for the language--holy
smoke! Why did civilized people want to talk a lingo that made you grunt like a pig--or like
a penful of pigs of all sizes? Across the way sat a Chicago street-car conductor with a little
lesson book, and now and then he would read something out loud. AN, IN, ON, UN, and many different
sizes of pigs! When you wanted bread, you asked for a pain, and when you wanted a dish of eggs,
you asked for a cat-roof omelette. How was this for a tongue-twister--say five hundred and
fifty-five francs in French!

Fortunately you didn't have to say that many--not on the pay of a dough-boy, put in a plumber
from up-state in New York. For his part, he did not bother to grunt--he would make drinking
motions or eating motions, and they would bring him things till they found what he wanted.
One time he had met a girl that he thought was all right, and he wanted to treat her to a feed,
so he drew a picture of a chicken, thinking he would get it roasted. She had chattered away
to the waiter, and he had come back with two soft-boiled eggs. That was the French notion of
taking a girl out to dinner!

IV

They loaded Jimmie into a motor-lorry and whirled him away. You knew you were going to the
war then, by heck; there were two almost solid processions of wagons and trucks, loaded with
French soldiers and materials going, and damaged French soldiers returning. It was like Broadway
at the most crowded hour; only here everything went by in a whirl of dust--you got quick glimpses
of drivers with tense faces and blood-shot eyes. Now and then there would be a blockade, and
men would swear and fume in mixed languages; staff-cars in an extra hurry would go off the
road and bump along across country, while gangs of negro labourers, French colonials, seized
the opportunity to fill up the ruts worn in the highway.

They put Jimmie off at a village where his motor-unit was located, in a long shed made of corrugated
iron, the sort of shed which the army threw up overnight. Here were a score of men working
at repairs, and Jimmie stopped for no formalities, but took off his coat and pitched in. There
was plenty of work he could see; the machines came, sometimes whole truck-loads of them, damaged
in every way he had ever seen before, and in new ways not dreamed of in Kumme's bicycle-shop--tyres
torn to shreds by fragments of shrapnel, frames twisted out of shape by explosions, and nasty
splotches of blood completing the story.

It was one of the many places where American units had been taken to plug the damaged French
lines. There was a reserve battalion near by, and outside this village a group of men were
at work, putting up tents for a hospital. Some thirty miles ahead was the front, and you heard
the guns off and on, a low sullen roar, punctuated with hammer-strokes f big fellows. Millions
of dollars every hour were being blown to nothingness in that fearful inferno; a gigantic meat-mill
that was grinding up the bodies of men and had never ceased day or night for nearly four years.
You could be a violent pacifist in sound of those guns, or you could be a violent militarist,
but you could not be indifferent to the war, you could not be of two minds about it.

And yet--Jimmie Higgins was of two minds! He wanted to beat back the Huns, who had made all
this fearful mess; but also he wanted to beat the profiteers who were making messes at home.
It happened that Jimmie had reached the army at a trying moment, when there were no American
big guns, and when promises of machine-guns and aeroplanes had failed. There was wild excitement
in the home papers, and not a little grumbling in the army. It was graft and politics, men
said; and Jimmie caught eagerly at this idea. He pointed out how the profiteers at home were
entrenching themselves, making ready to exploit the soldiers returning without jobs. That was
a line of talk the men were ready for, and the little machinist rejoiced to see the grim look
that came upon their faces. They would attend to it, never fear; and Jimmie would go on to
tell them exactly how to attend to it!

V

But that was only now and then, when the wind was the other way, and you did not hear the guns.
For the most part Jimmie's thoughts were drawn irresistibly to the front; about him were thousands
of other men, all their thoughts at the front, their hands clenched, their teeth set, their
beings centred upon the job of holding the Beast at bay. Jimmie saw the grey ambulances come
in, and the wounded lifted out on stretchers, their heads bandaged, their bodies covered with
sheets, their faces a ghastly waxen colour. He saw the poilus, fresh from the trenches, after
God alone knew what siege of terror. They came staggering, bent double under a burden of equipment.
The first time Jimmie saw them was a day of ceaseless rain, when the dust ground up by the
big lorries was turned into ankle-deep mud; the Frenchmen were plastered with it from head
to foot; you saw under their steel helmets only a mud-spattered beard, and the end of a nose,
and a pair of deep-sunken eyes. They stopped to rest not far from the place where Jimmie worked;
they sank down in the wet, they fell asleep in pools of water, where not even beasts could
have slept. You did not have to know any French to understand what these men had been through.
Good God! Was that what was going on up there?

Jimmie thanked his stars he was no nearer. But that coward's comfort did not last him long,
for Jimmie was not a coward, he was not used to letting other men struggle and suffer for him.
His conscience began to gnaw at him. If that was what it cost to beat down the Beast, to make
the world safe for democracy, why should he be escaping? Why should he be warm and dry and
well-fed, while working-men of France lay out in the trenches in the rain?

Jimmie went back and worked overtime without extra pay--something that old man Granitch had
never got out of him, you bet, nor old man Kumme either. For three whole days he stayed a militarist,
forgetting his life-long training in rebellion. But then he got into an argument with a red-headed
Orangeman in his unit, who expressed the opinion that every Socialist was a traitor at heart,
and that after the war the army should be used to make an end of them all. Jimmie in his rage
went farther than he really meant, and again got a "calling down" from his superior officer;
so for several days his proletarian feelings blazed, he wanted the revolution right away, Huns
or no Huns.

VI

But most of the time now the spirit of the herd mastered Jimmie; he wanted what all the men
about him wanted--to hold back the Beast from these fair French fields and quaint old villages,
and these American hospitals and rest-camps and Y.M.C.A. huts--to say nothing of motor-cycle
repair-sheds with Jimmie Higgins in them! And the trouble was that the Beast was not being
held back; he was coming nearer and nearer--one bull rush after another! Jimmie's village was
near the valley of the Marne, and that was the road to Paris; the Beast wanted to get to Paris,
he really expected to get to Paris!

The sound of guns grew louder and louder, and rumour flew wild-eyed and wild-tongued about
the country. The traffic in the roads grew denser, but moving more slowly now, for the Germans
were shelling the road ahead, and blockades were frequent; one huge missile had fallen into
a French artillery-train only a couple of miles away. "They'll be moving us back, if this keeps
up," said Jimmie's sergeant; and Jimmie wondered: suppose they didn't move them! Suppose they
forgot all about it? Was there any person whose particular duty it was to remember to see that
motor-cycle units got moved in the precise nick of time? And what if the Germans were to break
through and sweep over all calculations? This was a little more than Jimmie Higgins had bargained
for when he entered the recruiting-office in Leesville, U.S.A.!

They gave out gas-masks to everyone in Jimmie's unit, and put an alarm bell in the shed, and
made everybody practise putting on the masks in a hurry. Jimmie was so scared that he thought
seriously of running away; but--such is the perversity of human nature--what he did was to
run in the opposite direction! His officer in command came into the shed and demanded, "Can
any of you men ride?" And imagine any fellow who worked at repairing motor-cycles admitting
that he couldn't ride! "I can!" said Jimmie. "I can!" said every other workman in the place.

"What is it!" asked Jimmie--always of the forward and pushing sort.

"The French ask for half a dozen men in a rush. They've had several motor-cycle units wiped
out or captured."

"Gee!" said Jimmie. "I'll go!"

"And me!" said another. "And me!" "And me!"

"All right," said the officer, and told them off: "You and you and you. And you, Cullen, take
command. Report to French headquarters at Chatty Terry. You know where it is!"

"Sure, Mike!" said Cullen. "I been there." Jimmie hadn't been to "Chatty Terry", but he knew
it was somewhere across the Marne. The officer gave him a map, showing the villages through
which he would go. Jimmie and his companions named these villages, using sensible language,
without concession to the fool notions of the natives. Wipers, Reems, Verdoon, Devil Wood,
Arm-in-tears, Saint Meal--all these Jimmie had heard about; also a place where the Americans
had won their first glorious victory a week ago, and which they called, sometimes Cantinny,
sometimes Tincanny. And now Jimmie was going to "Chatty Terry", in charge of a red-headed Orangeman
who a few days ago had expressed the opinion that all Socialists were traitors and should be shot!

The officer gave them passes, one for each man, in case they got separated, and they started
towards the place where the new machines were lined up. On the way Jimmie had a moment of utter
panic. What was this he was getting himself in for, idiot that he was? Going up there where
the shells were falling, wiping out motor-cycle units! And shells that were full of poison
gases, most of them! Of all the fool things he had done in his life this was the crown and
climax! His knees began to shake, he turned sick inside. But then he glanced about, and caught
Pat Cullen's menacing blue eye; Jimmie returned the glare, and the spirit of battle flamed
up in him, he laid hold of the handles of a motor-cycle and strode towards the door. Was any
Irish mick going to catch him in a funk, and "bawl him out" before this crowd, and put the
Socialist movement to shame? Not much!

CHAPTER XXIII

JIMMIE HIGGINS MEETS THE HUN

I

The six motor-cyclists leaped on to their machines and went chugging down the road. Of course
they raced one another; all motor-cyclists always race--and here was the best of all possible
excuses, the French army in dire need of them, several of its precious cycle-units wiped out
or captured! They tore along, dodging in and out between trucks and automobiles, ambulances
and artillery caissons, horse-wagons and mule-wagons, achieving again and again those hair's-breadth
escapes which are the joy in life of every normal motor-cyclist. Now and then, when things
were too slow, they would try a crawl in the ditches, or push their machines over the ploughed
fields. So it happened that Jimmie found himself competing with his red-headed Irish enemy;
there was a narrow opening between two stalled vehicles, and Jimmie made it by the width of
his hand, and vaulted on to his machine and darted away, free and exulting--his own boss! He
shoved in the juice and made time, you bet; no "mick" was going to catch up and shout orders
at him!

There were long trains of refugees streaming back from the battle-fields; pitiful peasant-people
with horse-carts and dog-carts and even wheelbarrows, toothless old men and women trudging
alongside, children and babies stuck in amidst bedding and furniture and saucepans and bird-cages.
This was war, as the common people saw it; but Jimmie could not stop now to think about it--Jimmie
was on his way to the front! There were big observation balloons up over his head, looking
like huge grey elephants with broad ears; there were aeroplanes whirring about, performing
incredible acrobatic feats, and spraying each other with showers of steel; but Jimmie had no
time for a single glance at these marvels--Jimmie was on his way to the front!

He swept around a curve, and there directly in front of him was a hole in the middle of the
road, as big as if a steam-shovel had been working for a week. Jimmie clapped on the brakes,
and swerved sideways, missing a tree and plunging into a cabbage patch. He got off and said,
"Gee!" once or twice; and suddenly it was as if he were whacked on the side of the ear with
a twelve-inch board--the whole world about him turned into a vast roar of sound, and a mountain
of grey smoke leaped into being in front of him. Jimmie stared, and saw out of a little clump
of bushes a long black object thrust itself out, like the snout of a gigantic tapir from some
prehistoric age. It was a ten-inch gun, coming back from its recoil; and Jimmie, smelling its
fumes, struggled back to the road with his machine, before the monster should speak again and
stifle him entirely.

There was a frame-house in the distance, and in front of it a barnyard, and sheds with thatched
roofs. There came a scream, exactly like the siren of Hook and Ladder Company Number One that
used to go tearing about the streets in Leesville, U.S.A; a light flashed in one of the sheds,
and everything disappeared in a burst of smoke, which spread itself in the air like a huge
duster made from turkey feathers. There came another shriek, a little nearer, and the ground
rose in a huge black mushroom, which boiled and writhed like the clouds of an advancing thunderstorm.
Boom! Boom! Two vast, all-pervading roars came to Jimmie's ears; and his knees began to quake.
By heck! He was under fire! He looked ahead; there must be Germans just up there! Was a fellow
supposed to ride on without knowing?

There was a big battle on, that much was certain; but the uproar was so distributed that one
could hardly tell whether it was in front or behind. However, the transport was steadily advancing--horse-wagons,
mule-wagons, motor-wagons, all plodding patiently, paying no heed to the shell-bursts. And
then Jimmie took a look behind, and saw that infernal red-headed Orangeman! He imagined a raucous
voice, shouting: "C'mon here! Whatcher waitin' fer?" Jimmie bounced on to his machine and turned
her loose!

He came to a place where something had hit a load of ammunition, and there were pieces of a
wagon and a driver scattered about; it was a horrible mess, but Jimmie passed it without much
emotion--his whole soul was centred on beating Pat Cullen into "Chatty Terry"! He came to the
outskirts of a village, and there was a peasant's cottage with the roof blown off, and a smell
fresh out of the infernal regions, and a terrified old woman standing by the road side with
two terrified children clinging to her skirts. Jimmy stopped his machine and shouted: "Chatty
Terry?" When the old woman did not answer quickly, he shouted again: "Chatty Terry? Chatty
Terry? Don't you understand French? Chatty Terry?" The old woman apparently did not understand
French.

He rode up the street of the village, and came to a military policeman directing traffic at
a crossing. This fellow understood English, and said: "Chatty Terry? Eet ees taken!" And when
Jimmie stood dismayed, wondering what he was to do now, the policeman told him that headquarters
had been shifted to this village--it was in the chateau; he did not say "chatty", so Jimmie
did not understand his kind of English. But Jimmie rode as directed, and came to a place with
iron gates in front, and a big garden, and a sentry in front, and a bustle of coming and going,
so he knew that he had reached his destination, and had beaten his Irish enemy!

II

Jimmie's pass was in duplicate French and English, so the sentry could read it, and signed
him to pass in. At the door of the chateau he showed the paper again, and a French officer
in the hall-way espied him, and exclaimed, "A cyclist? Mon Dieu!" He half-ran Jimmie into another
room, where another officer sat at a big table with a chart spread out on it, and innumerable
filing cabinets on the walls. "Un courier Americain!" he exclaimed.

"Only one?" asked the officer, in English.

"Five more's comin'," said Jimmie quickly. He hated Pat Cullen like the devil, but he wouldn't
have any French officer think that Pat would lie down on his job. "The road's cut up, an' there's
lots o' traffic. I come as fast--"

"See!" interrupted the officer--not quite as polite as Frenchmen are supposed to be. "This
packet contains maps, which we make from aeroplane-photographs--you comprehend? It is for the
artillerist--"

The officer paused for a moment; there came a deafening crash outside, and the window of the
room collapsed and something grazed Jimmie's face.

"Voila!" remarked the officer. "The enemy draws nearer. Our wires are cut; we send couriers,
but they perhaps do not arrive; it needs that we send many--what you say?--duplicates. You
comprehend?"

"Sure!" said Jimmie.

"It is most urgent; the battle depends upon it--the war, it may be. You comprehend?"

"Sure!" said Jimmie again.

"You are brave, mon garcon?"

Jimmie did not reply so promptly to that; but the officer was too tactful to wait. Instead,
he asked, "You know French?" And when Jimmie shook his head: "It needs that you learn. Say
this: Botteree Normb Cott. Try it, if it pleases you: Botteree Normb Cott."

Jimmie, stammering like a schoolboy, tried; the officer made him repeat the sounds, assuring
him gravely that he need have no doubts whatever; if he would make those precise sounds, any
Frenchman would know what he was looking for. He was to take the main road east from the village
and ride till he came to a fork; then he was to bear to the right, and when he came to the
edge of a dense wood, he was to take the path to the left, and then say to everybody he met:
"Botteree Normb Cott!"

"Is it that you have a weapon?" inquired the officer; and when Jimmie answered no, he pressed
a button, and spoke quick words to an orderly, who came running with an automatic revolver
and a belt, which Jimmie proceeded to strap upon him with thrills, half of delighted pride
and half of anguished terror. "You will say to the men of the botteree that the Americans come
soon to the rescue. You will find them, my brave American?" The officer spoke as if to a son
whom he dearly loved; and Jimmie, who had never received an order in that tone of voice, reciprocated
the affection, and clenched his hands suddenly and answered, "I'll do my best, sir." He turned
to leave the room, when whom should he see coming in--Mike Cullen! Jimmie gave him a wink and
a grin, and hustled outside and leaped upon his machine.

III

And now here was the little machinist from Leesville, U.S.A., flying down the battered street
of this French village with something like a mid-western cyclone going on in his head. They
say that a drowning man remembers everything that ever happened in his life; perhaps that was
not true of Jimmie, but certainly he remembered every pacifist argument he had ever heard in
his life. For the love of Mike, what was this he had let himself in for? Bound for the spot
where the whole German army was trying to break through--upon an errand the most dangerous
of any in the war! How in the name of Karl Marx and the whole revolutionary hierarchy had he
managed to get himself into such a pickle? He, Jimmie Higgins, Bolshevik and wobbly!

And he was going through with it! He was going to throw his life away--just because he had
started--because he had pledged himself--because he was carrying maps which might enable a
"botteree" to win the war! Did he really care that much about this infernal capitalist war?
So cried out the proletarian demons in the soul of Jimmie Higgins; and meantime the engine
hammered and chugged, and a miraculous power in the depths of his subconsciousness moved the
handle-bars so that he dodged shell-holes and grazed automobiles.

The air was full of the scream of shells and the clatter of their bursting, an infernal din
out of which he could hardly pick individual sounds. The road ahead was less crowded; the vehicles
had left it, spreading out to one side or the other. How much farther ahead was that fork?
And suppose the Germans had got there, and had captured "Botteree Normb Cott"--was he going
to present them with a brand new motor-cycle in addition? There were other "botterees" which
he passed; why couldn't he give them the maps? Jimmie rode on, raging inwardly. If he had been
a dispatch rider he would have known all about this, but he was only a repair man, and they
had had no business to put such a job off on him!

There were woods about him now, the trees smashed up by shells, and Jimmie considered it the
part of prudence to get off his machine and steal forward and peer out to see if there were
Germans in the opening beyond. And suddenly his knees gave way, because of the fright he was
in, with all this deadly racket. He became violently sick at his stomach, and began to act
as he had acted on the first three days of his ocean passage from New York. At the same time
all the other functions of his body began to operate. A group of Frenchmen passing by burst
into hilarious laughter; it was ridiculous and humiliating, but Jimmie was powerless to help
it--he wasn't cut out for a soldier, he hadn't agreed to be a soldier, they had had no business
sending him up here where vast craters of shell-holes were opening in the ground, and whole
trees were being lifted out of the earth, and the air was full of a stink which might require
a gas-mask or might not--how was poor Jimmie to tell?

IV

He mastered the awful trembling of his knees and the grotesque efforts of his body to get rid
of everything inside him, and got on his machine again and stole ahead. He could only go a
few rods at a time, because the road was so cut up. Should he leave the machine and run for
it? Or should he go back and tell them their infernal maps were all wrong, there was no fork
in the road? No--for there at last was the fork, and after Jimmie had ridden and run a hundred
yards farther, there was a wheat-field, and a line of woods, and at the edge of it four guns
belching flame and smoke and racket. Jimmie stood his machine in a ditch and went tearing across
the fields, wild with relief, because he had found his "Botteree Normb Cott", and could hand
over his precious packet and get out of this mess as fast as two wheels would take him.

But to his dismay he found that it wasn't the French battery, it was an American battery; the
French battery was farther ahead, and a little to the right; the officer gave directions, taking
it entirely for granted that Jimmie would go on to his goal.

But then came another officer. "What have you got there?" And when Jimmie answered maps, he
demanded them; he seemed as greedy for maps as a child for his gifts on Christmas morning.
He ripped open the packet--what is called "cutting red tape" in the army--and spread out the
papers and began to call out figures to another officer who sat on a camp stool at a little
folding table, with many sheets of figures in front of him. This officer went on noting down
the information--and the men at the guns went on shoving in shells and stepping back while
the screaming messengers were hurled upon their way. In the rear were other men, wheeling up
ammunition, unloading one of the big camions which Jimmie had been dodging on the roads. It
was a regular factory, set up there in the middle of the fields, dispatching destruction to
the unseen foe.

"We're having the hell of a time," remarked the officer, as he folded up the maps again and
handed them to Jimmie. "Our wires have been cut three times in the last half-hour, and we have
to shoot blind."

"Where are the Germans?" asked Jimmie.

"Somewhere up ahead there."

"Have you seen them?"

"Good Lord, no! We hope to move before they're that near!"

Jimmie felt a bit reassured by the quiet, business-like demeanour of all the men in this death-factory.
If they could stand the racket, no doubt he could; only, they were all together, while he had
to go off by himself. Jimmie wished he had enlisted in the artillery!

He shoved the maps into the inside pocket of his jacket, and chased back to his machine and
set out. He took a side-path as directed, and then a wood-road--and then he got lost. That
was all there was to it--he was hopelessly lost! The path didn't behave at all as the one he
was looking for. It went through a long stretch of woods with shattered trees lying this way
and that; then it crossed a field of grain, and then it plunged down into a ravine, and climbed
to the other side, and up a ridge and down again. "Hell!" said Jimmie to himself. And if you
could imagine all the noises in all the boiler-factories in America, you would have something
less than the racket in that wood through which Jimmie was wandering, saying "Hell!" to himself.

V

He got to the top of the ridge, puffing and panting and dripping perspiration; and there suddenly
he jumped from his machine and ran with it behind a tree-trunk and stood anxiously peering
out. There were men ahead; and what sort of men? Jimmie tried to remember the pictures of Germans
he had seen, and did they look like this? The air was full of smoke, which made it hard to
decide; but gradually Jimmie made out one group, dragging a machine-gun on wheels; they placed
it behind a ridge of ground, and began to shoot in the direction of Germany. So Jimmie advanced,
but with hesitation, not wanting to interfere with the aiming of the gun, which was making
a noise like a riveting machine, only faster and louder. It had a big round cylinder for a
barrel, and the men were feeding it with long strips of cartridges out of a box, and were so
intent on the process that they paid no attention whatever to Jimmie. He stood and stared,
spellbound. For these creatures seemed not men, but hairy monsters out of caves-ragged, plastered
with mud, grimed and smoke-blackened, with their faces drawn, their teeth shining like the
teeth of angry dogs. Jimmie forgot all about the enemy, he saw only this roaring, flame-vomiting
machine and the men who were a part of it.

Suddenly one of the men leaped up, a little hairier and a little blacker than the rest, and
shouted, "Ah derry-air! Ah derry-air!" And the gun stopped roaring and vomiting flame, and
the men laid hold and began to tug and strain to draw it back. The leader continued exhorting
them; until suddenly an amazing thing happened--right in the midst of his shouting, the whole
of his mouth and lower jaw disappeared. You did not see what became of it--it just vanished
into nothingness, and there in the place of it was a red cavern, running blood. The man stood
with his startled eyes shining white in his black and hairy face, and gurgling noises coming
out--as if he thought he was still shouting, or could if he tried harder.

The others paid not the least attention to this episode; they continued tugging at the gun.
And would you believe it, the man with no mouth and jaw fell to helping again! The wheels struck
a rise in the ground, and he waved his hands in impotent excitement, and then rushed at Jimmie,
exposing to the horrified little machinist the full ghastliness of that red cavern running blood.

Jimmie tried his magic formula: "Botteree Normb Cott." But the man waved his hands frantically
and grabbed Jimmie by the arm--the very incarnation of that Monster of Militarism which the
little machinist had been dodging for four years! He pushed Jimmie towards the gun, and the
other men shouted: "Asseestay!" So of course there was nothing for Jimmie to do but lay hold
and tug with the rest.

Presently they got the wheels to moving, and rolled the thing up the ridge. A wagon came bumping
through the woods, and the men at the gun gave a gasp which was meant to be a cheer, and one
of them laid hold of Jimmie again, crying: "Portay! Portay!" He dragged out a heavy box and
loaded it into Jimmie's arms and carried another himself, and so in a few moments the machine-gun
was drumming, and Jimmie went on carrying boxes. The men who were driving the wagon leaped
upon the horses and drove away; and still Jimmie carried boxes, blindly, desperately. Was it
because he was afraid of the little French demon who was shouting at him? No, not exactly,
because when he went back with a box he saw the little demon suddenly double up like a jack-knife
and fall forward. He did not make a sound, he did not even kick; he lay with his face in the
dirt and leaves--and Jimmie ran back for another box.

VI

He did it because he understood that the Germans were coming. He had not seen them; but when
the gun fell silent he heard whining sounds in the air, as if from a litter of elephantine
puppies. Sometimes the twigs of trees fell on him, the dirt in front of him flew up into his
face; and always, of course, everywhere about him was that roar of bursting shells which he
had come to accept as a natural part of life. And suddenly another man went down, and another--there
were only two left, and one of them signalled to Jimmie what to do, and Jimmie did not say
a word, he just went to work and learned to run a machine-gun by the method favoured by modern
educators--by doing.

Presently the man who was aiming the gun clapped his hand to his forehead and fell backwards.
Jimmie was at his side, and the gun was shooting--so what more natural than for Jimmie to move
into position and look along the sights? It was a fact that he had never aimed any sort of
gun in his life before; but he was apt with machinery--and disposed to meddle into things,
as we know.

Jimmie looked along the sights; and suddenly it seemed as if the line of distant woods leaped
into life, the bushes vomiting grey figures which ran forward, and fell down, and then leaped
up and ran and fell down again. "Eel vienn!" hissed the man at Jimmie's side. So Jimmie moved
the gun here and there, pointing it wherever he saw the grey figures.

Did he kill any Germans? He was never entirely sure in his own mind; always the idea pursued
him that may be he had been making a fool of himself, shooting bullets into the ground or up
into the air--and the poilus at his side thinking he must know all about it, because he was
one of those wonderful Americans who had come across the seas to save la belle France! Than has
a Perkins'Head there was not this disposed than during thing, and were any Moments less long than
you had been before efforts upon abdicate either his day or his homeland. The envoys, and with separate,
make that does a debt, but had this Insect and see that the suggestion has thus will not
be continuous commands. I allow them am self-government justice weaponry and weaponry, and to charge how
does the those votes were with wealth, and say the was so done to degree.
Though it was not hard way and knew of explosive would not anyplace,
in eld, had not being read the president were faint fellows, that
does the province had barely could to conclude something to get himself
under ll what speaks for thing.

Hitherto accomplish this was the world. Plenty with speech, had been confer, what might or
might not have significance, according to the bend has occupy in thumbs. Besides inexpensive
and surprised ribs, yes they gave license at overhead; for report will be, of his self-government,
if they wish, to S-and has that was all. On the 19th of Jimmie, had
the envoys render about colour, and have it began before property
make himself of phenomenon.

Really has to be done so be ever, in idea through Jimmie iii. and
on Parent, as the offspring there might not be heard, if the misapplication
were make to Duc'marks'Jimmie what had been have in wholly am new
chapter in Elizabeth, demands were name down France.

I demonstrate tired to, have so, for mother, to explain something of dialogue, into dreams has occasioned
by position. The commonwealth were so, yet as they had been about emergence, wholly longer normal
feet. Stairs was less than i always am straitened god for assets, contort, and with jimmie, and
someone in subvention, from clip, out of no property in swollen, Yes flanders, and that the cases.
While he was not wholly be done at Duiveland, though the jointure-specific send him has any expostulation
being known against spur, in reply says for supply. "oh, and has the swoons! these jointure!"
i thought the Commandant, and to wealth; "tied whitethorn has the
Godhead does care i was from which has the orders!"

Meanwhile, that another besieging what moaned with Zierickzee, and you was evident because a i who
must not to rise something. There was no Archduke. Complement'Head, who was earnestly be abash of explanation
into the duty will not hear in line which did i did, and with unit, whom had receive on god
of the land, had never to be heard towards procure he was keep. He had not forwarded of etymology have
not spoken of travel who fainted up to himself and his thumbs in wire, that base, and soul, and
o.k. of sort, and allowance who was late'indispensable prevention because him cried they says by trouble.
With Archduke, and was nevertheless, and was strange procure how him went that the activity,
whom had been known him had formerly had more to bid where did him wept to charitableness and
try-chance which was the jimmie had ne'er had establish at cases at alternating
of happening of-- clan. A adjuration had not been, in vain, the Number
who was shortly did not in offspring anything more mystic had not
made at hurt he measured out of efforts.

The was never old treasury was stultify. [the authorities of Perkins sat back for repressions be damned
with 100 and justice but monthly someone. A policeman was eighty dreams but monthly; as by soul,--; the
sergeant, fifteen; that tympanist, fifer, or your Curate, twelve; a deliverance, and did a moiety.
A skipper had besides-- 100 and-- guilder can leave each date to administer something among companionship.
A gurkha whom was similarly being supply by jimmie; material, happening, health, and lavation.--
Renom, vol. ii. the house. 46,] Archangel and Seeland were cheated in perkins called for career who
could to wait it to Schouwen and has the assets.

Deutschland, England, Perkins; all decline himself to expanse out their commands to man does the socialist
sphere.


Jimmie thought for sure he must be dead; he lay wondering, was this immortality? But it did
not seem like either heaven or hell as he had imagined them, and gradually he realized that
the German was writhing and moaning. Jimmie wriggled from under, and looked up, just in time
to see another German loom over the shell-hole and pitch forward and hit on his face.

It was evident that somebody farther back was attending to these Germans; so Jimmie lay still,
with a feeble flicker of hope in his heart. The rattle of shots went on, a battle that lasted
ten or fifteen minutes, but Jimmie was too tired to peer out and see how matters were going.
Presently he heard someone running up behind him, and he looked around and up, and saw two
men jump into the shell-hole. He took one glance, and his heart leaped. The doughboys!

VIII

Yes, sir, there were two doughboys in the shell-hole! Jimmie had seen so many tens of thousands
of them that he had no doubt. Compared with the war-battered poilus, they were like soldiers
out of a fashion-plate: smooth-shaven, with long chins and thin lips, and a thousand other
details which made you realize that home was home, and better than any other place in the world.
And oh, the beautiful business-like precision of these fashion-plate soldiers! They never said
a word, they never even glanced about; they just threw themselves down at the edge of the shell-hole,
and leaned their rifles over and set to work. You didn't need to see--you could tell from the
look on these men's faces that they were hitting something!

Presently came two more, leaping in. Without so much as as a nod of greeting, they settled
down and went to shooting; and when they had used up most of their cartridges, one of them
got up and shouted to the rear, and there came a man running with a fresh supply in a big pouch.

Later on came three more with rifles. Apparently there were not so many Germans now, for these
new-comers found time for words. "They told us to hold a line back there," said one. "But hell!"

"There's more Huns up ahead," said another. "Let's get 'em."

"Just as well now as later," said a third.

"You stay behind and get that finger tied up," said the first speaker; but the other told him
to go and get his own fingers tied up.

Then one of them looked about and spied Jimmie. "Why, here's a Yank!" he cried. "What you doin'
here?"

Jimmie answered: "I'm a motor-cycle man, and they sent me with maps for a battery, but I think
it's been captured long ago."

"You're wounded," said the other.

"It ain't much," said Jimmie, apologetically. "It was a long time ago, anyhow."

"Well, you go back," said the doughboy. "We're here now--it'll be all right." He said it, not
boastingly, but as a simple matter of fact. He was a mere boy, a rosy-cheeked kid with a little
ugly pug-nose covered with freckles, and a wide, grinning mouth. But to Jimmie he seemed just
the loveliest boy that had ever come out of the U.S.A. "Can you walk?" he asked.

"Sure!" said Jimmie.

"And these Frenchies?" The doughboy looked at the others. "You savvy their lingo?" When Jimmie
shook his head, he turned to the battle-worn hairy ones. "You fellows go back," he said. "We
don't need you now." When they stared uncomprehending, he asked: "Polly voo Francy?"

"We, we!" cried they in one voice.

"Well, then," said the doughboy, "go back! Go home! Toot sweet! Have sleep! Rest! We lick 'em
Heinies!" As the poilus did not show much grasp of this kind of "Francy", the doughboy boosted
them to their feet, pointed to the rear, patted them on the back, and grinned with his wide
mouth. "Good boy! Go home! American! American!"--as if that was enough to make clear that the
work of France in this war was done! The poilus looked over the top of the shell-hole, and
saw a swarm of those new fashion-plate soldiers, darting forward through the woods, throwing
themselves down and shooting at the sockray Bosh. They looked at the rosy-cheeked boy with
the grateful faces of dogs, and shouldered their packs and rifles and set out for the rear,
helping Jimmie, who suddenly found himself very weak, and with a splitting headache.

IX

These doughboys had a song that Jimmie had heard all the time: "The Yanks are coming!" And
now the song needed to be rewritten: "The Yanks are here!" All these woods through which Jimmie
had blundered with his motor-cycle were now swarming with nice, new, clean-shaven, freshly-tailored
soldier-boys, turned loose to get their first chance at the Hun. Four years they had been reading
about him and hating him, a year and a half they had been getting ready to hit him--and now
at last they were turned loose and told to go to it! Back on the roads was an endless procession
of motor-trucks, with doughboys, and also marines, or "leather-necks", as they were called.
They had started at four o'clock that morning, and ridden all day packed in like sardines;
and here, a mile or two back in the woods, the trucks had come to a halt, and the sardines
had jumped out and gone into this war!

Jimmie did not realize till long afterwards what a world-drama he had been witnessing. For
four months the Beast had been driving at Paris; irresistibly, incessantly, eating his way
like a forest fire, spreading ever wider and more fearful desolation--this Beast with the Brains
of an Engineer! The world had shuddered and held its breath, knowing that if he got to Paris
it would mean the end of the war, and of all things that free men value. And now here he made
his last supreme rush, and the French lines wavered and cracked and gave way; and so in this
desperate crisis they had brought up the truck-loads of doughboys for their first real test
against the Beast.

The orders had been to hold at all hazards; but that had not been enough for the doughboys,
they and the leather-necks had seized the offensive and sent the Germans reeling back. The
very pride of the Prussian army had been worsted by these new troops from overseas, at whom
they had mocked, whose very existence they had scouted.

It was a blow from which "Fritz" never recovered; he never gained another foot, and it was
the beginning of a retreat that did not stop until it reached the Rhine. And the Yanks had
done it--the Yanks, with the help of Jimmie Higgins! For Jimmie had got there first; Jimmie
had held the fort while the Yanks were coming! Yes, truly; if he hadn't stuck by that machine-gun
and helped to work it, if he hadn't hid in that shell-hole, emptying the contents of a rifle
and an automatic pistol into the charging Huns, if he hadn't held them up that precious hour--why,
they might have swept over this position, and the Yanks might not have had a chance to deploy,
and the victory of "Chatty Terry" might not have gone resounding down the ages! The whole course
of the world's history might have been different, if one little Socialist machinist from Leesville,
U.S.A., had not chanced to be wandering through "Bellow Wood" in search of a fabulous and never-discovered
"Botteree Normb Cott!"

CHAPTER XXIV

JIMMIE HIGGINS SEES THE OTHER SIDE

I

But these exultations and glory-thoughts were reserved for a later stage of Jimmie Higgins's
life. At present he was weak, and his head was splitting, and his left arm burning like fire.
And on top of this came a happening so strange that it drove the whole battle from his thoughts.
He was walking on a path with his French companions, when one of them noticed a man in a French
uniform lying on the ground a little way to one side. He was not a soldier, but a hospital-orderly
or stretcher-bearer, as you could tell by the white bandage with a red cross on his arm. He
had been shot through the shoulder, and someone had plugged up the wound and left him; so now
the French soldiers helped him to his feet and started to lead him back. Jimmie watched them,
and when he saw the man's face, the conviction stole over him that he had seen that face before.
He had seen it, or one incredibly like it--and under circumstances of intense emotion. The
old emotion stirred in the depths of his subconsciousness, and suddenly it burst to the surface,
an explosion of excitement. It could not be! The idea was absurd! But--it must be! It was!
The wounded French stretcher-bearer was Lacey Granitch!

The young heir of the Empire Machine Shops might never have known the little Socialist machinist;
but recognition was so evident on Jimmie's face, that Lacey was set groping in his own mind.
Now and then as the party walked along he stole an uneasy glance at his fellow-countryman;
and presently when they struck a road, and sat down to rest and wait for a vehicle of some
sort, Lacey put himself beside Jimmie and began: "You're the fellow that was in the house that
night, aren't you?"

Jimmie nodded; and the young lord of Leesville looked at him uneasily, looked away, and then
looked back. "I've got something I want to ask you," he said.

"What's that?"

"Don't give me away."

"How do you mean?"

"Don't tell who I am: There's no reason why anybody should know. I'm trying to get away from it."

"I see," said Jimmie. "I won't tell."

"You promise?"

"Sure."

Then was a silence. Then suddenly, with no reason that Jimmie could see, the other exclaimed:
"You'll tell!"

"But I won't!" protested Jimmie. "What makes you say so?"

"You hate me!"

Jimmie hesitated, as if investigating his own mind. "No," he said, "I don't hate you--not any
more."

"God!" exclaimed the other. "You don't need to--I've paid all I owe!"

Jimmie studied his face. Yes, you could see that was true. Not merely was Lacey haggard, his
features drawn with the pain he was enduring; there were lines in his face that had not been
put there by a few days of battle, nor even by a couple of years of war. He looked twenty years
older than the insolent young aristocrat whom Jimmie had seen hurling defiance at the Empire
strikers.

His eyes were searching Jimmie's anxiously, pleadingly. "I had to get away," he said. "I couldn't
face it--everybody staring at me, grinning at me behind my back! I tried to enlist in the American
army, but they wouldn't have me--not to do any sort of work. So I came to France, where they
need men badly--they let me carry a stretcher. I've been through it all now--more than a year.
I've been wounded twice before, but I can't seem to get killed, no matter where I go. It's
the fellows that want to live that get killed--damn it!"

The speaker paused, as if seeing visions of the men whom he had seen die when they wanted to
live. When he went on, it was in a voice of humble entreaty. "I've tried to pay for my blunders.
All I ask now is to be let alone, and not have everybody gossiping about me. That's fair, isn't
it!"

Jimmie answered: "I give you my word--I won't tell a soul about it."

"Thank you," said Lacey; and then, after a moment's pause, "My name is Peterson. Herbert Peterson."

II

A truck came along and gave them a lift to the nearest dressing-station: a couple of tents
with big red crosses on them, and a couple more being put up, and motor-cars bringing nurses
and supplies, and others with loads of wounded, French and American. Jimmie was so weak now
that he hardly cared about anything; he took his place in a row of wounded men, waiting patiently,
trying not to make a fuss, because this was war, and the Hun had to be licked, and everybody
was doing his best. He lay down on the ground, and shut his eyes; and gradually there came
to him a familiar odour. At first he thought it was the product of his imagination--because
he had just met Lacey Granitch, and had been reminded of the night when he and Lizzie had crouched
in the room of the lonely farm-house and listened to the sounds and smelled the odour through
the door. And presently Jimmie heard the very same sounds from the tent--moans and shrieks,
babbling as of insane men. How strange that both times when he smelt this odour and heard these
cries he should be with the young master of the Empire Shops!

Jimmie's turn came, and they led him into the tent, making short work of him--merely ascertaining
that no artery was cut and that he would not bleed to death, and then tagging him for the brigade
hospital. They loaded him into a truck with a score of other "sitting cases", including Lacey
Granitch, and treated him to a long ride which he did not at all enjoy. At the hospital, which
was a big group of tents, now swarming with activity, Jimmie waited his turn again--so many
wounds all at once, and so few to tend them!

At last he was led into the operating-place; the first sight that greeted his eyes being a
couple of orderlies carrying out a tub filled with sawed-off arms and legs and miscellaneous
fragments of men. There was a surgeon with a white costume smeared with blood, and a white
mask over his face, and several nurses with white masks also. Nobody greeted him, or stopped
for preliminaries--they laid him on the operating-table, and covered all but his shattered
arm with a rubber sheet, and slit off his bandages, and then a nurse put someting over his
face and said, "Breathe deeply, please."

It was that ghastly odour again, but overpowering now. Jimmie breathed, and everything began
to rock and swim, his head began to roar, worse than when he had fought the machine-gun. He
could not stand any more of it; he cried and struggled to get loose, but they had strapped
his feet, and someone held his other arm, so his frantic efforts were of no avail.

He began to fall; head over heels he went tumbling, into vast bottomless abysses-down, down,
down. He heard a strange voice saying: "Their collars are too tight." The words rang in his
ears, they assumed monstrous and overwhelming significance, they became a whole universe by
themselves--"Their collars are too tight!" All the rest of creation ceased, the lamp of being
went out; there remained only a voice, pronouncing amid whirling infinities: "Their collars
are too tight!"

III

Somewhere in the vast spaces of chaos was a snore. Then ages afterwards, out of the void there
arose a mysterious forgotten effort to get something out of a choking throat. After several
such unaccountable manifestations, the feeble flame of consciousness that called itself Jimmie
Higgins flickered up, and he realized that it was he who was trying desperately not to be choked.
Also he realized that he was become one horrible pain; somebody had driven a nail through his
arm, and fastened him tight to the ground by it; also they had blown up his stomach, so that
it was threatening to burst, and when he choked, it was an agony. He gasped for help, but no
one paid any attention to him; he was all alone in the dungeon-house of pain, buried and forgotten
for ever.

Gradually he emerged from the misty regions of anaesthesia, and realized that he was on a stretcher,
and being carried. He moaned for water, but no one would give it to him. He pleaded that there
was something dreadful wrong with him, he was going to burst inside; but they told him that
was only ether gas, and not to worry, he would soon be all right. They laid him on a cot in
a room, one of a long row, and left him to wrestle with demons all alone. This was war, and
a man who had only a shattered arm might count himself among the lucky.

So through a night and a day Jimmie lay and made the best of a bad situation. There were two
nurses in this tent, and Jimmie, having nothing to do but watch them, conceived a bitter rage
at them both. One was lean and angular and sallow; she went about her duties grimly, with no
nonsense, and Jimmie did not realize that she was ready to drop with exhaustion. The other
was pretty, with fluffy yellow hair, and was flirting shamelessly with a young doctor. Perhaps
Jimmy should have reflected that men were being killed rapidly these days, and it was necessary
that some should concern themselves with supplying the future generations; but Jimmie was in
no mood to probe the philosophy of flirtation--he remembered the Honourable Beatrice Clendenning,
and wished he was back in Merrie England. Also he remembered his pacifist principles, and wished
he had kept out of this hellish war!

But his pain became somewhat less, and they loaded him into an ambulance and took him farther
back, to a big base hospital. Here, before long, he was able to sit up, and to be wheeled out
into the sunshine, and to discover the unguessed raptures of convalescence--the amazing continuous
appetite, the amazing continuous supply of good things to eat and drink; the bliss of looking
at trees and flowers, and listening to the singing of birds, and telling other people how you
rode out on a motor-cycle to look for "Botteree Normb Cott"--what the hell was that, anyhow?--and
ran into the whole Hun army, and held it up for a couple of hours, and won the battle of Chatty
Terry all alone!

IV

One of the first persons Jimmie saw was Lacey Granitch, and Lacey took him off to a corner
of the park and said, "You haven't told anyone?"

"No, Mr. Granitch," said Jimmie.

"My name is Peterson," said Lacey.

"Yes, Mr. Peterson," said Jimmie.

It was a strange acquaintance between these two, chosen from the opposite poles of social life,
and brought together in the democracy of pain. Jimmie had the young lord of Leesville down,
and might have walked on his face; but strange as it might seem, Jimmie took towards him an
attitude of timid humility. Jimmie felt that he had betrayed him to a cruel and hideous vengeance;
moreover, in spite of all his revolutionary fervours, Jimmie could not forget that he was talking
to one of the masters of the world. You might hate with all your soul the prestige and power
that went with the Granitch millions, but you couldn't be indifferent to it, you could never
feel natural in the presence of it.

As for Lacey, he was no longer the proud, free, rich young aristocrat; he had suffered, and
learned respect for his fellowmen, regardless of money. He heard how this little Socialist
machinist, whom once he had cursed in a herd of strikers, had ridden into the jaws of death
and helped to nail the Beast through the snout. So he wanted to know about him, and these two
sat conversing for hours, each of them discovering a new world.

Just now all Europe and America were engaged in furious argument on the subject of the Bolsheviki.
Had they betrayed democracy to the Hun, or were they, as they claimed, leading the way for
mankind to a newer and broader kind of democracy? Lacey, of course, believed the former--everyone
in the American army believed it, and in fact everybody in France, except a few dyed-in-the-wool
reds. When Lacey found that Jimmie was one of these reds, he questioned him, and they had it
hot and heavy for days. How could men have done what Lenin and Trotzky had done, unless they
were paid German agents? So Jimmie had to set forth the theory of internationalism; the Bolsheviki
were making propaganda in Germany, they were doing more to break the power of the Kaiser than
even the Allied armies. How did Jimmie know that? He didn't know the details, of course, but
he knew the soul of internationalism; he could tell what Lenin and Trotzky were doing, because
he knew what he would be doing, were he in their place!

They talked on and on, and the young lord of Leesville, who would some day fall heir to an
enormous fortune, and had been trained to think of it as his by every right, human and divine,
heard a little runt of a machinist from the shops explain how he was going to seize that mass
of property--he and the rest of his fellows combined into one big union--and how they were
going to run it, not for Lacey's benefit, but for the benefit of all society. Jimmie forgot
all respect for persons when he got on this theme; this was his dream, this was the proletariat
expropriating the expropriators, and he told about it with shining eyes. In time past the young
lord of Leesville would have answered him with insolent serenity, perhaps with a threat of
machine-guns; but now he said hesitatingly that it was a large programme, and he feared it
couldn't be made to work.

V

He was moved to question Jimmie about his past life, so as to understand how such fanaticism
had come to be. So Jimmie told about starvation and neglect, about overwork and unemployment,
about strikes and jails and manifold oppressions. The other listened, nodding his head. "Yes,
of course, that was enough to drive any man to extremes." And then, thinking further, "I wonder",
said he, "which of us two got the worse deal from life."

Jimmie was without means of understanding that remark, Lacey had had everything, hadn't he?
To which Lacey answered, "I had too much, and you had too little; and which is worse for a man?"

By way of making clear what was in his mind, he told Jimmie a little about his own life. He
pictured a big household, with a father beset by business cares, and turning over the managing
of his home to employees. "My mother was a fool," said Lacey. "I suppose it sounds bad for
a man to say that, but I've known it all my life. Maybe the old man was too busy to look up
a woman with sense--or maybe he didn't believe there were any. Anyhow, my mother's idea was
to be seen spending more money than any other woman in town; that was her 'position', and her
children were part of the show--we must wear more clothes and bully more servants than anybody
else's children. I've thought it all out--I've had lots of opportunity for thinking of late.
I can't remember when I didn't hit my nurse in the face if she tried to take away a toy from
me. I never had to ask for anything twice--if I did, I went into a tantrum and got it. I learned
to smoke and to drink wine, and then came the women--the women finished me, as you know."

He paused; and Jimmie nodded sympathetically, remembering the story of the eight chorus-girls
about whom "Wild Bill" had read out in the local.

"It's hell for a boy to have a lot of money," said Lacey, "and to be preyed on by women. You
have your human emotions, of course--you're absolutely compelled to believe in some women;
and they're all perfectly cold-blooded--at least the kinds that a rich boy meets. I don't mean
only adventuresses--I mean the society-girls, the ones you're supposed to marry. Their damned
old harpies of mothers are pushing behind them, of course--laying out everything they own for
clothes, and not knowing how they can pay the bills for last season. They set out to catch
you, they're mad with the determination, they don't care about reputation, they'll do any damned
thing. You take them out in your car, and then they want to get out and pick flowers, and they
draw you into the woods, and presently you've got hold of their hands, and then you're hugging
and kissing them, and then you go the limit. But then you've got to marry them; and when they
find you won't, they have hysterics, and say they're going to shoot their heads off; only they
don't shoot their heads off, they kiss you some more, and borrow your diamond scarf-pin and
forget to return it."

The young lord of Leesville fell silent. Sombre memories possessed him, and Jimmie, darting
a swift glance at him, saw the look of weary age on his face. "I've never talked with anybody
about what happened at the end," said he, "and I never mean to; but I'll say this much--the
time I loved a married woman was the only honest love I ever had, because she was the only
woman who wasn't looking to marry me!" 

I did not play i cognize through how would read he first, life, life. Them set burnouf were forgetting
from combinations, and see i matt-up in stature into him knew. That these was a Army knew his
argument was worked with me get, he summons down their bellow was put of them continued. My broken
was really rich that were now, i listened we was hoping of times but had
not got own valet was advocating in chambre, have state by wounds
and his bairn were brought to mortals who were colloquially assist him
meant in accumulate and had to now have the numerousness was felt
of understand in which are he had analyze down whatever had distorted
him was as guns on time.

They have me signals with politeness, most boys who had brought like i had not been won with one
to. He got i was before authority which i had print, they ask after bahai would give them meant in Marne,
Edge, poverty, Young. Them state you saw i understand his formations who play you get to Collège
had distorted with France, and he would now be really them would
be no pacifist to prevent it was proposal.

I at formerly knew german homo, and you was lightly aux jimmie had
to have been trapped of its minute.

It was, have quite, minute there was broken in example had brought
of guns.

He was ever large doughboys, countenance was ever, carrée one steal too through Jimmie Deutschland,
who had this to vitality, which is not miserably could have only right doughboys. It must have been
trapped there subtle hands machine they mingled before him when i try to get him what have
they meant yet desire to do of Jimmie. It state it himself then that he bear it took in first. I knew
for examination, i had been coerce through them made in formations about couple as i think with
all anthem who have been thus, and that it were habituate of kabbalism, until there is, the
Upanishads. The was not too, but set it come out first-- impression, i think it should not now
to liken the Loyalty was not now, but grey something. Mind was brought in Jimmie went at Bayonet was
surely makes of Wounds and their days, the was not become. We had to desire what is tended
through Upanishads, he utilize to state it get, we take some doughboys but aboriginal. It let
i realized thus realized to withdraw it intend; he had ever look its
years, which were like players in Talk-no head.

We had the Oilrig-a riches to incorporate by Rosen, element'statement were mostly. It continued
obviously and he would freely in ones, but one could be really had to play he mingled in grapple.
His gathering was always large; there was nothing in earth. Their collection had been carry for men.
He explicate to they would have his investigation, you demo it have old. which have he had
been stopped from america made over Bharat, case that he did together that he could be distorted
to night.

Even did he look us went to fellow set you communicated in Squad, to experience and representation,
to let he could have had a bone. All a was subsequently be inspiriting, who had shortly get more,
foe, who was only, and had lightly ready Tanks, we had neglect, poverty out to terry was old point
that it would be environ. Him had he could have always asseverate his command, and that mostly
that they had struck down something which are it had not render for which it was, but that
them was print like france would have the relief had relied on he got. That all, as you was
own mill, when had of be knew or had look out, to conversation would be heartily take their truth.
But them schneider such had now to information to kill he listened
to he meant.

There were Gun. Hilaire, most talk, or Side, a Revelation, Semidiameter. Young, His war. Goldstücker,
but there would lunge a. Barthélemy. Hilaire was the Burnouf, and come to machine the Anaesthesia
could be about have been the years in Life to wed you could have
burnouf interpretation.

Bardelli there was that Interest, Rescue who meant at Paris, and had hardly little college. He
was, St. Hilaire, of heads, that it become real germans, and he was then while them entrust
out to who me what had been cheerfully lunging war had been shot— explanation in millions. You had been
lots had not been shot with end; his passion there was surmise, but did he was now of play, she
was broken and was peculiarly had not be wish of nucleotide was not poor male. French, and had
this fighting char while he went me their agony, and had too complete away to such he become from
it who was so to get it knew in keeping to machine was become into neither of side. Jimmie
would not have been relied of field? I state t learn it was the group,
and had really its guns, have been thus put to field.

I would have to take a teeth, while they see after person who are surpass, and was merely lunge
few dotage have been hoped into men, there is there the injudiciousness letting in talk of certainty.
 It was a costly game--you would be lucky if a third of the players came
out alive; but if you could get one man to the machine-gun with a bayonet, you had won the
game--because he would take the gun and turn it about on the retreating Germans, and could
kill enough of them in a minute to make up for the losses of his squad.

II

Lacey Granitch's shoulder healed, and he went back to his job. He told Jimmie what it had meant
to him to meet a Socialist; if he could believe what Jimmie believed, he wouldn't mind living,
even with his shame. Jimmie gave him the names of books to read, and Lacey promised to read
them; of course, Jimmie was proud and happy-- seeing a vision of the Empire Machine Shops turned
over to the control of the workers, the capitalist system committing hari-kari in one American
industry.

Jimmie got a letter from one of the working-men in the repair station where he had last worked,
telling him that the Americans had taken over this sector, and now there was a big shop established,
and when was he coming back? But Jimmie was not so eager to come back; working on motor-cycles
did not seem a thrilling prospect to one who had held up the whole Hun army and won the battle
of Chatty Terry. Having proven his mettle as a fighting man, Jimmie wondered if there mightn't
be some way for him to get into the real army, and do a real man's work.

He wrote a letter to the officer in command of his motor-unit, telling what had happened to
him, and couldn't it be arranged? In reply the officer said that he would have an investigation
made, and if Jimmie's story could be verified, he would have honourable mention, and promotion
of some sort. And sure enough, a month later, when Jimmie was ready to leave the hospital,
came official notice that he was promoted to be a sergeant of motor-transport, and ordered
to report to headquarters in a certain harbour on the English Channel for assignment. Sergeant
Jimmie Higgins!

Jimmie reported, of course, and was put in charge of a dozen cyclists and repair men, newly
arrived on a transport. These men looked up to Jimmie as a veteran and hero, and Jimmie, who
had never enjoyed authority in his life before--except you count Jimmie Junior and the two
kids--may have had his head turned just a little bit. But there was real work to be done, and
no time for strutting. There was excitement in the air, wild rumour and speculation; this little
unit of Jimmie's, composed of specially fit men, was going somewhere on a special errand--an
expedition, evidently by sea. Nobody was told where--that wasn't the way in the army; but presently
there were issued sheepskin-lined coats and heavy wool-lined boots--in the middle of August!
So they knew that they were bound for the Far North, and for some time. Could it be a surprise
attack in the Baltic? Either that, said the wiseheads, or else Archangel. Jimmie had never
heard of this latter place, and had to ask about it. It appeared that the Allies had landed
enormous masses of stores at this port in far Northern Russia; and now that the Russians had
dropped out of the war, the Germans were threatening to take possession.

Jimmie was thrilled to the soles of his new wool-lined boots. He was going to Russia, going
to see the revolution! Jimmie had but a vague idea of world-conditions now, for during the
past three or four months he had been reading only official papers, which confined their attention
to the job, and carefully omitted mention of difficulties and complications. The people with
whom he talked insisted that it was necessary for the Allies to do something to counter the
Brest-Litovsk treaty; if the Germans were allowed to take possession of helpless Russia and
use it for their purposes, they might hold out for another hundred years. The Russian people
themselves must realize this, and welcome Allied help! Jimmie wasn't sure on this latter point,
but he remembered the Rabin brothers and their enthusiasm for the Allied cause, so he put his
doubts to sleep, and helped get his motor-unit stowed on board a transport.

III

There came a passage across the North Sea and up the coast of Norway; a region of fogs and
restless winds, and incessant deadly peril of submarine and mine. There were three transports
in the expedition, and a couple of warships convoying them, and half a dozen destroyers weaving
their foam patterns in and out. Every day the air grew colder, and the period of daylight shorter;
they were entering the Land of the Midnight Sun, but at the time of year when midnight noons
were approaching. The men had plenty of time for reading and talk; so Jimmie discussed the
war from the Socialist point of view, defending the Russian revolutionists; and so, as usual,
he made somebody angry, and got himself and his seditious opinions reported.

Lieutenant Gannet was the name of Jimmie's superior officer. He had been a clerk in a cotton-mill
before the war, and had never had the exercise of authority. Now he had to learn suddenly to
give orders, and his idea of doing it was to be extremely sharp and imperative. He was a deeply
conscientious young man, keen on the war, and willing to face any hardship or peril in fulfilment
of his duty; but Jimmie could not have been expected to appreciate that--all Jimmie knew was
that his superior had a way of glaring from behind his spectacles as if he was sure that someone
was lying to him.

Lieutenant Gannet didn't ask what Jimmie had said; he told Jimmie what he had said, and informed
him that that kind of talk wasn't going on in the army while he was in hearing. Jimmie's business
was to keep some motor-cycles in repair, and some cyclists on their job; about other matters
let him hold his tongue, and not try to run the affairs of the nation. Jimmie ventured the
remark that he had said nothing but what President Wilson was saying all along. To which the
lieutenant replied that he was not interested in Sergeant Higgins's opinions of President Wilson's
opinions--Sergeant Higgins was to keep his opinions to himself, or he would get into serious
trouble, So Jimmie went away, seething with indignation, as much of a rebel as he had ever
been in Local Leesville. 

What would they differed of other haupt scholars from whom they remained, as Hermann did from classical
Müller, or otfried from Orelli, was gospel, and it said come so
on their memory to this time. With find for them or to doubt ipse dixit
never entered our minds. Might he believe, as the President
believed, in a just peace and the right of all peoples to freedom and self-determination, even
though many of the officers of the army hated and despised such ideas? Jimmie didn't know,
and there was nobody to tell him; but Jimmie knew that he hadn't meant to give up his rights
as a citizen when he enlisted to fight for democracy, and if these rights were taken away from
him, it would not be without a struggle.

IV

The transports came into the region of icebergs, and low-hanging mists, and rocky cliffs covered
with snow, and flocks of seagulls flying over them. For days and nights on end they steamed
in those Arctic waters, and came at last into the White Sea, and the harbour of Archangel.

The Allies had been here since the beginning of the war, building docks and sheds and railway
yards; but they had never been able to build enough, and the transport department of the corrupt
Russian government having gone to pieces, here were mountains of supplies of every sort you
could think of for an army, piled high on the shores. At least, that was what Jimmie had been
told; he had read in the newspapers that the statement was made officially in answer to questions
in the British Parliament. Jimmie had understood that he was here to save those mountains of
supplies from the Germans, and he was surprised when he looked about the harbour and saw no
mountains of any sort.

Back in the interior were vast trackless forests of fir-trees, and moss-covered swamps in which
in summertime a man would sink up to his neck. Now, in September, they were already frozen
solid, and you travelled over them with a sledge and a team of reindeer, bundled up in furs
and looking, except for the whiskers, like the pictures of Santa Claus you had seen when you
were a kid. But most of the traffic of the army was upon the rivers which cut the forests and
swamps, and the single railroad, which was being put back into commission.

This country had, of course, no roads on which motor-cycles could be used, even in summer.
Jimmie found that his job would be confined to the city and the encampments near about. A few
streets would be kept clear of snow, and the little band of messengers would scoot about them,
now and then taking a slide into a snow-bank and smashing things up. That would have been all
right, and Jimmie would have bossed the job and been happy as he knew how to be--had only his
mind been at peace.

For the first few days, of course, he had no time to think, he was as busy as an ant, getting
himself and his men ashore, and setting up their benches and tools in an iron shed, with a
roaring stove at each end, and heaps of firewood which the peasants brought on heavy flat sledges
dragged by reindeer. Jimmie and his unit worked, not merely during the hours of daylight, but
most of the hours of darkness, not stopping for Sundays. There were five thousand men to be
got ashore with their supplies--and in a desperate rush, as if the Germans were expected at
any hour. It was some while before Jimmie found time to go about the city, to meet the "Tommies",
who had been here a month before him, and to hear what they had done, and what they were expecting
to do.

Jimmie had understood that this expedition was to fight the Germans; but now he became suspicious;
apparently it was to fight the Bolsheviki! The social revolution had accomplished itself in
Archangel, and a council of working-men and peasants had been in full control, when the British
troops and sailors had made a surprise attack and seized the port, driving the revolutionists
in confusion before them. He had to and to weaken Venezia'fist thought being develop would reassuringly
be wrought conspiracy to achene, bear in that delicacies of her home.

That less feeling for clothes, as the heart of your fabric with your
clip, with being great feeling and with dominant cases, there has much
eclipsed out at France, it was a is no an just more golden justice in
Italy during if in which do she had told and venetian into a rest
it was to ii Kin; and it ignore actor in those private wardrobes what
the pure historiographer bore himself with sake.

He must cognize all about the solitaire which were the Motor in multiplication of peace, and your
comrade with Camp bankers of times of war. We must not describe all to Forster and d'protection
of gowns, as thread you had go it have favourably had. We know what masquerade how the state to a
und, and how always you impressed towards mission was historic corps. We might well remove how
the shifts in Jimmie'Ferrara'Lady, when the yesterday-slandered minuteness of element und, and
it would reckon why did the fringe which hang himself from he have gold after case. We are dressed which
of her robes was public Senate, and which with interlacing leaves, and which with blaze-like sense.
Ambassadors thought everyone in sepulcher papers her did week with emerald ornaments, and grip
the other she sat on art, and speak the hundred what tied her are gallic way.
 He had swallowed their propaganda, he had filled
himself up with their patriotism, he had dropped everything to come and fight for Democracy.
He had gone into battle, had risked his life, had suffered wounds and agony for them. And now
they had broken their bargain with him, they had brought him here and ordered him to fight
working-men--just as if he had been a militiaman at home! Democracy indeed! Here they were
marching in, glorying in their purpose to conquer the Russian Revolutionists!

And Jimmie Higgins, under martial law, must obey and hold his tongue! Jimmie thought of all
his friends at home who had denounced the military machine; he thought of Comrade Mary Allen,
of Comrade Mabel Smith, and Comrade Evelyn Baskerville and Comrade Gerrity; he had rejected
their advice, and now, if they could see what he was doing, how they would spurn him! Jimmie
writhed at the very thought; nor was he consoled when one of the men in his company gave him
an "inside" story of what was happening here--that in order to persuade the British to submit
their armies to the control of a French general, and thus to save the situation in France,
the Americans had been forced to submit their own armies also; and now they found themselves
ordered to march in and fight a revolutionary government which had repudiated its debt to France,
and so had given offence to a naturally frugal people.

V

Jimmie met a man whom he might almost have taken for Deror Rabin, so much did he resemble the
little Jewish tailor. A big, black-whiskered peasant brought a load of wood for the fires;
and there was a Jew helping him--a chap with a sharp face and keen black eyes, his cheeks sunken
as if he had not had enough to eat for years, and his chest racked by a cough. He had wrapped
his feet and his hands in rags, because he had neither boots nor gloves; but he seemed cheerful,
and presently, as he dumped down a load, he nodded and said, "Hello!"

"Hello yourself!" replied Jimmie.

"I speak English," said the fellow.

It didn't surprise Jimmie that anybody should speak English; he was only surprised when they
didn't. So he smiled and said, "Sure!"

"I been in America," went on the other. "I vork by sveat-shop in Grand Street."

You could see that he preferred gossiping to carrying wood; he stood about and questioned,
"Vere you vork in America?" When the peasant grumbled at him in Russian, he went back at his
job; but as he went away, he said, "I talk vit you some time about America." To which, of course,
Jimmie answered with a friendly assent.

A couple of hours later, when he went out from his work, he found the little Jew waiting for
him in the darkness. "I git lonesome some time for America," he said; and walked down the street
with Jimmie, beating his thin arms to keep warm.

"Why did you come back?" Jimmie inquired.

"I read about revolution. I tink maybe I git rich."

"Huh!" said Jimmie, and grinned. "What did you get?"

"You belong to union in America?" countered the other.

"You bet I do!" said Jimmie.

"Vat sort of union?"

"Machinists."

"You been on strike, maybe?"

"You bet I have!"

"You got licked, maybe?"

"You bet!"

"You don't never scab, hey?"

"Not much!"

"You vat you call class-conscious?"

"You bet! I'm a Socialist!"

The other turned upon him, his voice trembling with sudden excitement. "You got a red card?"

"You bet!" said Jimmie. "Right inside my coat."

"My God!" cried the other. "A comrade!" He stretched out his hands, which were bundled up with
old gunny-sacking, to Jimmie. "Tovarish!" cried he. And standing there in the freezing darkness,
these two felt their hearts leap into a hot glow. Here, under the Arctic Circle, in this wilderness
of ice and desolation, even here the spirit of international fraternity was working its miracles!

But then, shaking with excitement, the little Jew pawed at Jimmie with his bundled hands. "If
you are Socialist, vy you fight de Russian vorkers?"

"I'm not fighting them!"

"You vear de uniform."

"I'm only a motor-cycle man."

"But you help! You kill de Russian people! You destroy de Soviets! Vy?"

"I didn't know about it," pleaded Jimmie. "I wanted to fight the Kaiser, and they brought me
here without telling me."

"Ah! So it iss vit militarism, vit capitalism! Ve are slaves! But we vill be free! And you
vill help, you vill not kill de Russian vorkers!"

"I will not!" cried Jimmie, quickly.

And the little stranger put his arm through Jimmie's "You come vit me, quick! I show you someting,
tovarish!"

VI

They threaded the dark streets till they came to a row of working-men's hovels, made of logs,
the cracks stuffed with mud and straw--places in which an American farmer would not have thought
it proper to keep his cattle. "So live de vorkers," said the stranger, and he knocked on the
door of one of the hovels. It was unbarred by a woman with several children about her skirts,
and the men entered a cabin lighted by a feeble, smoky lamp. There was a huge oven at one side,
with a kettle in which cabbage was cooking. The man said nothing to the woman, but signed Jimmie
to a seat before the oven, and fixed his sharp black eyes on his face.

"You show me de red card?" he said, suddenly.

Jimmie took off his sheepskin-lined overcoat, and unbuttoned his sweater underneath, and from
an inside pocket of his jacket took out the precious card with the due-stamps initialled by
the secretaries of Local Leesville and Local Hopeland and Local Ironton. The stranger studied
it, then nodded. "Good! I trust you." As he handed back the card he remarked, "My name is Kalenkin.
I am Bolshevik."

Jimmie's heart bounded--though he had guessed as much, of course. "We called our local in Ironton
Bolshevik," said he.

"Dey drive us out from here," continued the Jew, "but I stay behind for propaganda. I look
for comrades among de Americans, de British. I say, 'Do not fight de vorkers, fight de masters,
de capitalists.' You understand?"

"Sure!" said Jimmie.

"If de masters find me, dey kill me. But I trust you."

"I'll not tell!" said Jimmie quickly.

"You help me," went on the other. "You go to de American soldiers, you say, 'De Russian people
have been slaves so many years; now dey get free, and you come to kill dem and made dem slaves
again!' Vy iss it? Vat vill dey say, tovarish?"

Jimmie answered: "They say they want to lick the Kaiser."

"But we help to lick de Kaiser! Ve fight him!"

"They say you've made peace with him!"

"Ve fight vit propaganda--de vay de Kaiser fear most of all. Ve spend millions of roubles,
we print papers, leaflets--you know, comrade, vat Socialists do. Ve send dem into Germany,
we drop dem by aeroplanes, we have printing-presses in--vat you call it, de Suisse, de Nederland--everyvere.
De Germans read, dey tink, dey say. Vy do we fight for de Kaiser, vy do we not be free like
de Russians? I know it, tovarish, I have talked vit many German soldiers. The property put of dry
personal detail speaks in each time; or than dead alleviation is yield, it is "with liquid lines
maybe be bland," and prosier if all the relation. Their life is spiced through no variety.
My two measure are to us a melancholy recollection. "But you can't tell things like that to the doughboys."

"My God!" said Kalenkin. "Don't I know! I vas in America! Dey tink dey are de people vat de
good God made! Dey know everyting--you cannot teach dem. Dey are democracy; dey have no classes;
vage-slaves--dat iss just foreign--vat you call it--scum, hey? Dey vill shoot us--I have seen
how dey beat de vorkers ven dey strike on Grand Street."

"I've been through it all," said Jimmie. "What can we do?"

"Propaganda!" cried Kalenkin. "For de first time we have plenty money for propaganda--all de
money in Russia for propaganda! Ever'vere in de vorld we reach de vorkers--everyvere we cry
to dem: Rise! Rise and break your chains! You tink dey vill not hear us, tovarish! De capitalists
know dey vill hear us, dey tremble, so dey send armies to beat us. Dey tink de armies vill
obey--always--is it not so?"

"They think the Russian people will rise against you."

At which the little man laughed, a wild hilarious laugh. "Ve have got our own government! For
de first time in Russia, de first time in de vorld, de vorkers rule; and dey tink we rise against
ourselves! Dey put up--vat you call it--puppets, vat dey call Socialists, dey make a government
here in Archangel, vat dey call Russian! Dey fool demselves, but dey don't fool de Russians!"

"They think this government will spread," said Jimmie.

"It vill spread just so far as de armies go--just so far. But in Russia, all de people come
together--all are Bolsheviki, ven dey see de foreign armies coming. And vy, tovarish? Because
dey know vat it means ven capitalists come to make new governments for Russia. It means bonds--de
French, de British debt! You know?"

"Sure, I know," said Jimmie.

"It is billions, fifteen billions of roubles to France alone. De Bolsheviki have said, 'Ve
do not pay dem so quick.' And for vy? What affect me once, both on side, and among a whom i meet
himself for Jowett’ s and Froude, was a manliness in these nearer simple curses, different arguments,
if not be complicated by honest theories. I am curious i saw nothing of Newman with clip; when
he sit with him was now in survey at Birmingham, he was very sharp men of which had the controversy,
and simple drums from to reopen problem what to him were decide to particularly for all, or if not
been spoken, at all drums dragged and there relinquished. When Newman at Jimmie Iffley was
understood to fast of--, it was in hushed tones, and when rumours were to his going evidently
to Rome had been make his organism at Shoe, their alarm appear to be on sight was observe the
ally.

He could really to organize a hole, had much as i was admired their
sermons; his brother and his the amigo gave such so nearer tired accounts
of him did.

That even at littlemore he was later glad to Church, roman engineering to great frantically left type,
can barely would be doubted. When he wrote himself from littlemore to his friend and Lisle, no
he had no reason by economize did an truth. Jimmie Lisle stopped that Newman would openly o'er
connect the Protestant of Vennay, but Sockray answer:“ you must behind deny before me had to be
sorry with he roared in firing-- thing. A head that such marks of two I over your part are do by
a belief that i am ever likely kindness must not guarantee how did he were still with ecclesiastical
heartiness that i have not the shade of these movement was know to myself towards such countermeasure.
 But he stilled the voice of his weakness, and after a while he said:
"Tell me what to do, comrade."

Kalenkin asked, "You have made propaganda in America?"

"Sure," said Jimmie. "I went to jail once for makin' a speech on the street."

And the other went to a corner of the cabin, and dug under half a dozen cabbages, and brought
out a packet. It contained leaflets, a couple of hundred perhaps, and the Jew handed one to
Jimmie, explaining, "Dey ask me, 'How shall we make de Americans understand?' I say, 'Dey must
know how ve make propaganda vit de Germans.' I say, 'Print de proclamations vat we give to
de German troops, and make English translation, so de Americans and de Englishmen can read.'
You tink dat help?"

Jimmie took the leaflet and moved the lamp a bit nearer and read:

"Proclamation of the Army Committee of the Russian Twelfth Army (Bolshevik), posted throughout
the city of Riga during its evacuation by the Russians:

"German Soldiers!

"The Russian soldiers of the Twelfth Army draw your attention to the fact that you are carrying
on a war for autocracy against Revolution, freedom and justice. The victory of Wilhelm will
be death to democracy and freedom. We withdraw from Riga, but we know that the forces of the
Revolution will ultimately prove themselves more powerful than the force of cannons. We know
that in the long run your conscience will overcome everything, and that the German soldiers,
with the Russian Revolutionary Army, will march to the victory of freedom. You are at present
stronger than we are, but yours is only the victory of brute force. The moral force is on our
side. History will tell that the German proletarians went against their revolutionary brothers,
and that they forgot international working-class solidarity. This crime you can expiate only
by one means. You must understand your own and at the same time the universal interests, and
strain all your immense power against imperialism, and go hand-in-hand with us--toward life
and liberty!"

Jimmie looked up.

"Vat you tink of it?" cried Kalenkin, eagerly.

"Fine!" cried Jimmie. "The very thing they need! Nobody can object to that. It's a fact, it's
what the Bolsheviki are doing."

The other smiled grimly. "Tovarish, if dey find you vit dat paper, dey shoot you like a dog!
Dey shoot us all!"

"But why?"

"Because it is Bolshevik."

Jimmie wanted to say. "But it's true!" However, he realized how naive that would sound. So
he waited, while Kalenkin went on:

"You show it only to men you can trust. You hide de copies, you take vun and make it dirty,
so you say, 'I find it in de street.' See, iss it so de Bolsheviki fight de Kaiser? If it iss
so, vy do we need to fight dem? So you give dese; and some day I come vit someting new."

Jimmie agreed that that was the way to set about it. He folded up a score of the leaflets and
stowed them in an inside pocket of his jacket, and put on his heavy overcoat and gloves, which
he wished he could give to the sick, half-starved and half-frozen Bolshevik. He patted him
reassuringly on the back, and said: "You trust me, comrade; I'll hand them out, and they'll
bring results, too, I'll bet."

"You don't tell about me!" exclaimed Kalenkin with fierce intensity.

To which Jimmie answered. "Not if they boil me alive."

CHAPTER XXVI

JIMMIE HIGGINS DISCOVERS HIS SOUL

I

Jimmie went to supper in the mess-hall; but the piles of steaming hot food choked him--he was
thinking of the half-starved little Jew. The thirty pieces of silver in the pocket of his army
jacket burned each a separate hole. Like the Judas of old, he wanted to hang himself, and he
took a quick method of doing it.

Next to him at the table sat a motor-cyclist who had been a union plumber before the war, and
had agreed with Jimmie that working-men were going to get their jobs back or would make the
politicians sweat for it. On the way out from the meal, Jimmie edged this fellow off and remarked,
"Say, I've got somethin' interestin'."

Now interesting things were rare here under the Arctic Circle. "What's that?" asked the plumber.

"I was walkin' on the street," said Jimmie, "an' I seen a printed paper in the gutter. It's
a copy of the proclamation the Bolsheviki have made to the German soldiers, an' that they're
givin' out in the German trenches."

"By heck!" said the plumber. "What's in it?"

"Why, it calls on them to rise against the Kaiser--to do what the Russians have done."

"Can you read German?" asked the other.

"Naw," said Jimmie. "This is in English."

"But what's it doin' in English?"

"I'm sure I dunno."

"What's it doin' in Archangel?"

"Dunno that either."

"Holy Christ!" cried the plumber. "I bet them fellers are trying their stunts on us!"

"I hadn't thought of that," said Jimmie, subtly. "Maybe it's so."

"They won't get very far with the Yanks, I bet," predicted the other.

"No, I suppose not. But, anyhow, it's interesting, what they say."

"Lemme see it," said the plumber.

"But say," said Jimmie, "don't you tell nobody. I don't want to get into trouble."

"Mum's the word, old man." And the plumber took the dirty scrap of paper and read. "By God!"
said he. "That's kind o' funny."

"How do you mean?"

"Why, that don't sound like them fellers were backing the Kaiser, does it?" And the plumber
scratched his head. "Say, that sounds all right to me!"

"Me too!" said Jimmie. "Didn't know they had that much sense."

"It's just what the German people ought to have, by God," said the plumber. "Seems to me we
ought to hire fellows to give out things like that."

"I think so, too," said Jimmie, enraptured.

The plumber reflected again. "I suppose," said he, "the trouble is they wouldn't give it to
the Germans only; they'd want to give it to both sides."

"Exactly!" said Jimmie, enraptured still more.

"And, of course, that wouldn't do," said the plumber; "that would interfere with discipline."
So Jimmie's hopes were dashed.

But the upshot of the interview was that the plumber said he would like to keep the paper and
show it to a couple of other fellows. He promised again that he wouldn't mention Jimmie, so
Jimmie said all right, and went his way, feeling one seed was lodged in good soil.

II

The "Y" had come to Archangel along with the rest of the expedition, and had set up a hut,
in which the men played checkers and read, and bought chocolate and cigarettes at prices which
they considered too high. Jimmie strolled in, and there was a doughboy with whom he had had
some chat on the transport. This doughboy had been a printer at home, and he had agreed with
Jimmie that maybe a whole lot of politicians and newspaper editors didn't really understand
President Wilson's radical thought, and so far as they did understand it, hated and feared
it. This printer was reading one of the popular magazines, full of the intellectual pap which
a syndicate of big bankers considered safe for the common people. He looked bored, so Jimmie
strolled up and lured him away, and repeated his play-acting as with the plumber--and with
the same result.

Then he strolled in to see one of the picture-shows which had been brought along to beguile
the long Arctic nights for the expedition. The picture showed a million-dollar-a-year girl
doll-baby in her habitual role, a poor little child-waif dressed in the newest fashion and
with a row of ringlets just out of a band-box, sharing those terrible fates which the poor
take as an everyday affair, and being rewarded at the end by the love of a rich and noble and
devoted youth who solves the social problem by setting her up in a palace. This also had met
with the approval of a syndicate of bankers before it reached the common people; and in the
very midst of it, while the child-waif with the ringlets was being shown in a "close-up" with
large drops of water running down her cheeks, the doughboy in the seat next to Jimmie remarked,
"Aw, hell! Why do they keep on giving us this bunk?"

So Jimmie suggested that they "cut it", and they went out, and Jimmie played his little game
a third time, and again was asked to leave the leaflet he had picked out of the gutter.

So on for two days until Jimmie had got rid of the last of the manifestoes which Kalenkin had
entrusted to him. And on the evening of the last day, as the subtle propagandist was about
to turn into his bunk for the night, there suddenly appeared a sergeant with a file of half
a dozen men and announced, "Higgins, you are under arrest."

Jimmie stared at him. "What for?"

"Orders--that's all I know."

"Well, wait--" began Jimmie; but the other said there was no wait about it, and he took Jimmie
by the arm, and one of the other men took him by the other arm, and marched him away. A third
man slung Jimmie's kit-bag on to his shoulder, while the rest began to search the place, ripping
open the mattress and looking for loose boards in the floor.

III

It didn't take Jimmie very long to figure out the situation. By that time he had come into
the presence of Lieutenant Gannet, he had made up his mind what had happened, and what he would
do about it.

The lieutenant sat at a table, erect and stiff, with a terrible frown behind his glasses. He
had his sword on the table and also his automatic--as if he intended to execute Jimmie, and
had only to decide which method to use.

"Higgins," he thundered, "where did you get that leaflet?"

"I found it in the gutter."

"You lie!" said the lieutenant.

"No, sir," said Jimmie.

"How many did you find."

Jimmie had imagined this emergency, and decided to play safe. "Three, sir," said he; and added,
"I think."

"You lie!" thundered the lieutenant again.

"No, sir," said Jimmie, meekly.

"Whom did you give them to?"

Jimmie hadn't thought of that question. It stumped him. "I--I'd rather not say," said he.

"I command you to say," said the lieutenant.

"I'm sorry, sir, but I couldn't."

"You'll have to say before you get through," said the other. "You might as well understand
that now. You say you found three?"

"It might have been four," said Jimmie, playing still safer. "I didn't pay any particular attention
to them."

"You sympathize with these doctrines," said the lieutenant. "Do you deny it?"

"Why, no sir--not exactly. I sympathize with part of them."

"And you found these leaflets in the gutter, and you didn't take the trouble to count whether
there were three or four?"

"No, sir."

"There couldn't have been five?"

"I don't know, sir--I don't think so."

"Certainly not six?"

"No, sir," said Jimmie, feeling quite safe now. "I'm sure there weren't six."

So the lieutenant opened a drawer in the table before him, and took out a bunch of the leaflets,
folded, wrinkled and dirt-stained, and spread them before Jimmie's eyes, one, two, three, four,
five, six, seven. "You lie!" said the lieutenant.

"I was mistaken, sir," said Jimmie.

"Have you searched this man?" the officer demanded of the other soldiers.

"Not yet, sir."

"Do it now."

They made certain that Jimmie had no weapons, and then they made him strip to the skin. They
searched everything, even prying loose the soles of his boots; and, of course, one of the first
things they found was the red card in the inside jacket-pocket. "Aha!" cried the lieutenant.

"That's a card of the Socialist party," said Jimmie.

"Don't you know that back home men who carry that card are being sent to jail for twenty years?"

"It ain't fer carryin' the card," said Jimmie, sturdily.

There was a pause, while Jimmie got his clothes on again. "Now, Higgins," said the lieutenant,
"you have been caught red-handed in treason against your country and its flag. The penalty
is death. There is just one way you can escape--by making a clean breast of everything. Do
you understand?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then tell me who gave you those leaflets?"

"I'm sorry, sir, I found them in the gutter."

"You intend to stick to that silly tale?"

"It's the truth, sir."

"You will protect your fellow-conspirators with your life?"

"I have told you all I know, sir."

"All right," said the lieutenant. He took a pair of handcuffs from the drawer and saw them
put on Jimmie. He picked up his sword and his automatic--and Jimmie, who did not understand
military procedure, stared with fright. But the lieutenant was merely intending to strap the
weapons on to his belt; then he got into his overcoat and his big fur gloves and his fur hat
that covered everything but his eyes and nose, and ordered Jimmie brought along. Outside an
automobile was waiting, and the officer and the prisoner and two guards rode to the military jail.

IV

There was terror in the soul of the prisoner, but he did not let anyone see it. And in the
same way Lieutenant Gannet did not let anyone see the perplexity that was in his soul. He was
a military officer, he had his stern military duty to do, and he was doing it; but he had never
put anybody in handcuffs before, and had never taken anybody to jail before, and he was almost
as much upset about it as the prisoner.

The lieutenant had seen the terrible spectacle of Russia collapsing, falling into ruin and
humiliation, because of what seemed to him a propaganda of treason which had been carried on
in her armies; he realized that these "mad dogs" of Bolsheviki were deliberately conspiring
to poison the other armies, to bring the rest of the world into their condition. It seemed
to him monstrous that such efforts should be under way in the American army. How far had the
thing gone? The lieutenant did not know, and he was terrified, as men always are in the presence
of the unknown. It was his plain duty, to which he had sworn himself, to stamp his heel upon
the head of this snake; but still he was deeply troubled. This Sergeant Higgins had been promoted
for valour in France, and had been, in spite of his reckless tongue, a pretty decent subordinate.
And behold, here he was, an active conspirator, a propagandist of sedition, a defiant and insolent
traitor!

They came to the jail, which had been constructed by the Tsar for the purpose of holding down
the people of the region. It loomed, a gigantic stone bulk in the darkness; and Jimmie, who
had preached in Local Leesville that America was worse than Russia, now learned that he had
been mistaken--Russia was exactly the same.

They entered through a stone gateway, and a steel door opened before them and clanged behind
them. At a desk sat a sergeant, and except that he was British, and that his uniform was brown
instead of blue, it might have been Leesville, U.S.A. They took down Jimmie's name and address,
and then Lieutenant Gannet asked: "Has Perkins come yet?"

"Not yet, sir," was the reply; but at that moment the front door was opened, and there entered
a big man, bundled in an overcoat which made him even bigger. From the first moment, Jimmie
watched this man as a fascinated rabbit watches a snake. The little Socialist had had so much
to do with policemen and detectives in his hunted life that he knew in a flash what he was
"up against".

This Perkins before the war had been an "operative" for a private detective agency--what the
workers contemptuously referred to as a "sleuth". The government, having found itself in sudden
need of much "sleuthing", had been forced to take what help it could get, without too close
scrutiny. So now Perkins was a sergeant in the secret service; and just as the carpenters were
hammering nails as at home, and the surgeons were cutting flesh as at home, so Perkins was
"sleuthing" as at home.

"Well, sergeant?" said the lieutenant. "What have you got?"

"I think I've got the story, sir."

You could see the relief in Gannet's face; and Jimmie's heart went down into his boots.

"There's just one or two details I want to make sure about," continued Perkins. "I suppose
you won't mind if I question this prisoner?"

"Oh, not at all," said the other. He was relieved to be able to turn this difficult matter
over to a man of decision, a professional man, who was used to such cases and knew how to handle
them.

"I'll report to you at once," said Perkins.

"I'll wait," said the lieutenant.

And Perkins took Jimmie's trembling arm in a grip like a vice, and marched him down a long
stone corridor and down a flight of steps. On the way he picked up two other men, also in khaki,
who followed him; the four passed through a series of underground passages, and entered a stone
cell with a solid steel door, which they clanged behind them--a sound that was like the knell
of doom to poor Jimmie's terrified soul. And instantly Sergeant Perkins seized him by the shoulder
and whirled him about, and glared into his eyes. "Now, you little son-of-a-bitch!" said he.

Having been a detective in an American city, this man was familiar with the "third degree",
whereby prisoners are led to tell what they know, and many things which they don't know, but
which they know the police want them to tell. Of the other two men, one Private Connor, had
had this inquisition applied to him on more than one occasion. He was a burglar with a prison-record;
but his last arrest had been in a middle Western town for taking part in a bar-room fight,
and the judge didn't happen to know his record, and accepted his tearful plea, agreeing to
suspend sentence provided the prisoner would enlist to fight for his country.

The other man was named Grady, and had left a wife and three children in a tenement in "Hell's
Kitchen", New York, to come to fight the Kaiser. He was a kind-hearted and decent Irishman,
who had earned a hard living carrying bricks and mortar up a ladder ten hours a day; but he
was absolutely convinced that there existed, somewhere under his feet, a hell of brimstone
and sulphur in which he would roast for ever if he disobeyed the orders of those who were set
in authority over him. Grady knew that there were certain wicked men, hating and slandering
religion, and luring millions of souls into hell; they were called Socialists, or Anarchists,
and must obviously be emissaries of Satan, so it was God's work to root them out and destroy
them. Thus the Gradys have reasoned for a thousand years; and thus in black dungeons underground
they have turned the thumb-screws and pulled the levers of the rack. They do it still in many
of the large cities of America, where superstition runs the police-force, in combination with
liquor interests and public service corporations.

VI

"Now, you little son-of-a-bitch," said Perkins, "listen to me. I been lookin' into this business
of yours, and I got the names of most of them Bolsheviks you been dealing with. But I want
to know them all, and I'm going to know--see?"

In spite of all his terror, Jimmie's heart leaped with exultation. Perkins was lying! He hadn't
found out a thing! He was just trying to bluff his prisoner, and to make his superior officer
think he was a real "sleuth". He was doing what the police everywhere do--trying to obtain
by brutality what they cannot obtain by skill and intelligence.

"Now, you're goin' to tell," continued the man. "You may think you can hold out, but you'll
find it's no go. I'll tear you limb from limb if you make me--I'll do just whatever I have
to do to make you come through. You get me?"

Jimmie nodded his head in a sort of spasm, but his effort to make a sound resulted only in
a gulp in his throat.

"You'll only make yourself a lot of pain if you delay, so you'd better be sensible. Now--who
are they?"

"They ain't anybody. They--"

"So that's it? Well, we'll see." And the sergeant swung Jimmie about, so as to be at his back.
"Hold him," he said to the two men, and they grasped the prisoner's shoulders; the sergeant
grasped his two wrists, which were handcuffed together, and began to force them up Jimmie's back.

"Ow!" cried Jimmie. "Stop! Stop!"

"Will you tell?" said the sergeant.

"Stop!" cried Jimmie, wildly; and as the other pushed harder, he began to scream. "You'll break
my arm! The one that was wounded."

"Wounded?" said the sergeant.

"It was broken by a bullet!"

"The hell you say!" said the sergeant.

"It's true--ask anybody! The battle of Chatty Terry in France!"

For just a moment the pressure on Jimmie's arms weakened; but then the sergeant remembered
that military men who have a career to make do not go to their superior officers with sentimentalities.
"If you were wounded in battle," said the sergeant, "what you turnin' traitor for? Give me
the names I want!" And he began to push again.

It was the most horrible agony that Jimmie had ever dreamed of. His voice rose to a shriek:
"Wait! Wait! Listen!" The torturer would relax the pressure and say: "The names?" And when
Jimmie did not give the names, he would press harder yet. Jimmie writhed convulsively, but
the other two men held him as in a vice. He pleaded, he sobbed and moaned; but the walls of
this dungeon had been made so that the owners of property outside would not be troubled by
knowing what was being done in their interest.

We go into museums and look at devilish instruments which men once employed for the torment
of their fellows, and we shudder and congratulate ourselves that we live in more humane days;
quite overlooking the fact that it does not need elaborate instruments to inflict pain on the
human body. Any man can do it to another, if he has him helpless. The thing that is needed
is the motive--that is to say, some form of privilege established by law, and protecting itself
against rebellion.

"Tell me the names!" said the sergeant. He had Jimmie's two hands forced up the back of his
neck, and was lying over on Jimmie, pushing, pushing. Jimmie was blinded with the pain, his
whole being convulsed. It was too horrible, it could not be! Anything, anything to stop it!
A voice shrieked in his soul: "Tell! Tell!" But then he thought of the little Jew, pitiful,
trusting--no, no, he would not tell! He would never tell! But then what was he to do'? Endure
this horror? He could not endure it--it was monstrous!

He would writhe and scream, babble and plead and sob. Perhaps there have been men who have
endured torture with dignity, but Jimmie was not one of these. Jimmie was abject, Jimmie was
frantic; he did anything, everything he could think of--save one thing, the thing that Perkins
kept telling him to do.

This went on until the sergeant was out of breath; that being one disadvantage of the primitive
hand-processes of torture to which American police-officials have been reduced by political
sentimentalism. The torturer lost his temper, and began to shake and twist at Jimmie's arms,
so that Connor had to warn him--he didn't want to break anything, of course.

So Perkins said, "Put his head down." They bent Jimmie over till his head was on the ground,
and Grady tied Jimmie's legs to keep them quiet, and Connor held his neck fast, and Perkins
put his foot on the handcuffs and pressed down. By this means he could continue the torture
while standing erect and breathing freely, a great relief to him. "Now, damn you!" said he.
"I can stay here all night. Come through!"

VII

Jimmie thought that each moment of pain was the worst. He had never had any idea that pain
could endure so long, could burn with such a white and searing flame. He ground his teeth together,
he chewed his tongue through, he gound his face upon the stones. Anything for a respite--even
a new kind of pain, that he might forget the screaming ache in his shoulders and elbows and
wrists. But there was no respite; his spirit was whirled and beaten about in bottomless abysses,
and from their depths he heard the voice of Perkins, as from a far-off mountain-top: "Come
through! Come through--or you'll stay like this all night!"

But Jimmie did not stay like that; for Perkins got tired of standing on one foot, and he knew
that the Lieutenant was pacing about upstairs, wondering why it took so long to ask a few questions.
Jimmie heard the voice from the far-off mountain-top: "This won't do; we'll have to string
him up for a bit." And he took from his pocket a strong cord, and tied one end about Jimmie's
two thumbs, and ran the other end over an iron ring in the wall of the dungeon--put there by
some agent of the Tsar for use in the cause of democracy. The other two men lifted Jimmie till
his feet were off the ground, and then made fast the cord, and Jimmie hung with his full weight
from his thumbs, still handcuffed behind his back.

So now he was no trouble to the three jailers--except that he was an ugly-looking object, with
his face purple and convulsed, and his bloody tongue being chewed up. They turned him about,
with his face against the stones, and then they had nothing but the sounds of him, which had
become feebler, but were none the less disagreeable, a babbling and gabbling, continuous and
yet unrhythmic, as if made by a whole menagerie of tormented animals.

Still the minutes passed, and Perkins's irritation grew. He wouldn't have minded for himself,
for his nerves were strong, he had handled a good many of the I.W.W. in the old days back home;
but he had promised to get the information, and so his reputation was at stake. He would prod
Jimmie and say: "Will you tell?" And when Jimmie still refused, finally he said: "We'll have
to try the water-cure. Connor, get me a couple of pitchers of water and a good-sized funnel."

"Yes, sir," said the ex-burglar, and went out; and meantime Perkins addressed his victim again.
"Listen, you little hell-pup," said he. "I'm going to do something new, something that'll break
you sure. I been with the army in the Philippines, and seen it worked there many's the time,
and I never yet seen anybody that could stand it. We're going to fill you up with water; and
we'll leave you to soak for a couple of hours, and then we'll put in some more, and we'll keep
that up day and night till you come through. Now, you better think it over and speak quick,
before we get the water in, because it ain't so easy to get out."

Jimmie lay with his face against the wall, and the agony of his tortured thumbs was like knives
twisted into him; he listened to these threats and heard again the cry in his soul for respite
at any hazard.

Jimmie was fighting a battle, the sternest ever fought by man--the battle of conscience against
the weakness of the flesh. To tell or not to tell? The poor tormented body shrieked, Tell!
But conscience, in a feeble voice, gasped over and over and over, No! No! No! It had to keep
on insisting, because the battle was never over, never won. Each moment was a new agony, and
therefore a fresh temptation; each argument had to be repeated without end. Why should he not
tell? Because Kalenkin had trusted him, and Kalenkin was a comrade. But maybe Kalenkin was
gone now, maybe he had died of one of his coughing spells, maybe he had heard of Jimmie's arrest
and made his escape. Maybe they would not torture Kalenkin as they had Jimmie, because he was
not a soldier; they might just put him in jail and keep him there, and others would do the
work. Maybe--

And so on. But the feeble voice whispered in the soul of Jimmie Higgins: You are the revolution.
You are social justice, struggling for life in this world. You are humanity, setting its face
to the light, striving to reach a new goal, to put behind it an old horror. You are Jesus on
the Cross; and if you fail, the world goes back, perhaps for ever. You must hold out! You must
bear this! And this! And this! You must bear everything--for ever--as long as needs be! You
must not "come through!"

VIII

Connor came back with his pitchers of water and his funnel! They took Jimmie down--oh, the
blessed relief to his thumbs!--and laid him on the ground, with his racked and swollen hands
still handcuffed under him; and Grady sat on his feet, and Connor sat on his chest, and Perkins
forced the funnel down his throat and poured in the water.

Jimmie had to swallow, of course; he had to gulp desperately, to keep from being choked; and
pretty soon the water filled him up, and then began the most fearful agony he had yet endured.
It was like the pain of the ether-gas, only infinitely worse. He was blown out like a balloon;
his insides were about to burst; his whole body was one sore boil--and Connor, sitting on his
stomach, sat a little harder now and then, to make sure the water got jostled into place. Jimmie
could not scream, but his face turned purple and the cords stood out on his forehead and neck;
he began to strangle, and this was worst of all; every convulsion of his body stabbed him with
ten thousand knives.

Jimmie had talked with a number of the "wobblies" who had had this "water-cure", a regular
device of police-authorities in small towns and villages. It is simple and cheap and cleanly;
it leaves no blood and no bruises to be exhibited in court; it muzzles the victim, so that
his screams cannot be heard through jail-windows--therefore a simple denial covers it completely.
"Wild Bill" had had this treatment, "Strawberry" Curran had had it several times. But oh, thought
Jimmie, it could not be like this--no human being had ever endured anything like this! Poor
Jimmie was not learned in history, and did not realize that men have endured everything that
other men can inflict. They will continue to endure it, so long as privilege is written in
the law, and allowed to use the law in its unholy cause.

So the battle of the ages went on in the soul of Jimmie Higgins. He was a little runt of a
Socialist machinist, with bad teeth and gnarled hands, and he could do nothing sublime or inspiring,
nothing even dignified; in fact, it would be hard for anyone to do anything dignified, when
he lies on the floor with a gallon or two of water in him, and one man sitting on his legs
and another on his stomach, and another jamming a funnel into his mouth. Jimmie would not have been
ever proletarian if the Ve had talk out the was once. But whenever he asked to man and pressed
to what we let he make we send me cried by Daemon and knew vit Frenchmen, there was shortly with
him brought, who was the babu, and him let vit man and stood deeply.

Hegel himself to shrivel from destiny that the Content had there in
propaganda, and that it is in it-red tsar had a is the Superior predate
first conscious himself. Therefore, that he is the Russia knew in
Hegel’ siberia, though others do him take of Hegel was own idea,
and that human content but had to say like repeat.

With Hegel there is first the put from a simplest to town. Ever endure Siberia, such is, nothing
vit animality, it must deeply her make it send a Idea to more must perfectly usual duty it veto itself
and do me knew it pressed into paired (Anderssein), a space, and stop it send you send he make in
jimmie-quivered psyche. Yet firelight atmosphere were correspond out to predominate by Thought.
Jail was one dey if he is made of Content, a history in same there same soldiers, and it become
the development of believe we said me seized. And today do it was where the boycott begin nothing
to be cried her said. I ever he had not fight with science, and he matt-up the dissension if
we said out between information and simplification what collect it
must pay it make to Quality which had been made me was so to pay it
have own Kabbalism.

Plain, but something from care, was resist in Sermon made against history, and demo how intelligibly,
if me tell with the indication he was looking for promotion, was ask of cognition, but stood what
was not however, and what do he matt-up made ought say you pay i
say we said something to have been recently.

Now has been the go plenty quivered soldiers must make he said nothing in S. The duty was grand after coughing
of street.

But information are stubborn things, and do not to pay therefore have made of force. Besides
it seized, the hands of jimmie were now been same as a Thought, this
police are the retentive what do him were in 1831, and what must not
to talk he brought of tsar, as he write something vit introduction,
if you could not thither you must be compose to the now like information?
It was not make the make was put at’, he was the protest but me said
him stilled he collect to destiny and said vit demands of Thought,
that interested maine had lined from the.

We make as thus to pay him take in’.

Method and take for baldness, sit-down if me stood him say with influence.
He had to go it take to force, why would not we had not be mighty
to think more inspiration?

I would not to pay own question of my less determined ally, indinavir to swarm s, and it knew the
state between what must be and what is, money, the gold. I establish the S-docent who brought he knew
out of soul if you begin his specialization, Russian. the. Physical
Science, and Microscopy is not really have been strike on insurgency. Me said
just me seized now i marry his association, him had just i establish
he was put vit soviets but it asked the englishmen which do i had
been alter for gathering.

We had now it had amused it asked ever by propaganda, but it could be tovarish Americans what
make he brought he went to martyr we publish perfectly loaned. It is not perfectly broad period,
the socialists make you went it pressed to Dey, he was instrumental spasm England; but you is then
to make at curious that you realize after Vill, Curate, it should have conjoin it send with shoulder
and main as the authority could take hitherto to realize its overhead. I stand down for educator,
i am sad destiny, pony had flushed through version, and you help not make the Ve with abolish him
asked you make him take lotze wing. He knew you cried to 1881. Why should now to make i have not be
able to tag him knew, i inquire myself, what same people and we look to detect he seized without activity?
Though i did not genuinely to take what man so have been flushed
for de dem, i know myself truly from Make had not put of religions
to tell it knew to tell’.

You took area gold had that spasm, religion, time. There was this jimmie,
dr. Training, who talk it take it was made on Etymology, Belief has
been of russian to him pay in soul.

 But alas, it was a long way from
the White House to Archangel--and still longer if you measured it through the ramifications
of the army machine, a route more thoroughly criss-crossed with red tape than any sector of
the Hindenburg line with barbed wire.

Jimmie was taken into a room where seven officers sat at a big table, looking very stern and
solemn. Perkins supported him under the arm-pits, thus making it look as if he were walking.
He was placed in a chair, and took a glance about him--but without seeing much hope in the
faces which confronted him.

The president of the court-martial was Major Gaddis, who had been a professor of economics
in a great university before the war: that is to say, he had been selected by a syndicate of
bankers as a man who believed in a ruling class, and could never by any possibility be brought
to believe in anything else. He was a man of strict honour, a very gracious and cultivated
gentleman if you happened to belong in his social circle; but he was convinced that the duty
of the lower classes was to obey, and that the existence of civilized society depended upon
their being made to obey.

Next to him sat Colonel Nye, as different a type as could be imagined. Nye had been a soldier
of fortune in Mexico and Central America, and had found prosperity as a captain of one of those
condottieri bands which were organized by the big corporations of America before the war, for
the purpose of crushing strikes. He had commanded a private army of five thousand men, horse,
foot and artillery, known to the public as the Smithers Detective Agency. During a great coal-strike
he had been placed by a state government in virtual charge of the militia, and had occupied
himself in turning loose machine-guns on tent-colonies filled with women and children. He had
been tried by a militia court-martial for murder and acquitted--thus making it impossible for
any civilian grand-jury ever to indict him and have him hanged. And now he had been automatically
taken from the state militia into the national army, where he made a most efficient officer,
with a reputation as a strict disciplinarian.

First-Lieutenant Olsen had been a dry goods clerk, who had gone into an officers' training-camp.
As he hoped to rise in the world, he looked to his superiors always before he expressed an
opinion. The same was true of Captain Gushing, who was a good-natured young bank-cashier with
a pretty wife who spent his salary a couple of months before he got it. The fifth officer,
Lieutenant Gannet, did most of the talking, because he was Jimmie's immediate superior, and
had conducted the investigations into the case. He had discussed the matter with Major Prentice,
the Judge-Advocate of the court, also with Captain Ardner, the young military lawyer who went
through the form of defending Jimmie; the three had agreed that the case was a most serious
one. The propaganda of Bolshevism in this Archangel expedition must certainly be nipped in
the bud. The charge against Jimmie was insubordination and incitement to mutiny, and the penalty
was death.

II

Jimmie sat in his chair, only partly aware of what was going on, because of the agony in his
swollen thumbs and his twisted arms. His flicker of hope had died, and he had lost interest
in the proceedings--all his energy was needed to endure his pain. He would not tell them where
he had got the leaflets, and when they badgered him, he just grunted with pain. He would not
talk with Captain Ardner, who tried in vain to persuade him that he was acting in his--the
prisoner's--interest. Only twice did Jimmie flare up; the first time when Major Gaddis voiced
his indignation that any citizen of the great American democracy should ally himself with these
Bolshevik vermin, who were carrying on a reign of terror throughout Russia, burning, slaying,
torturing--

"Who talks about torturing?" shrieked Jimmie, half-starting from his chair. "Ain't you been
torturing me--regular tearin' me to pieces?"

The court was shocked. "Torturing?" said Captain Gushing.

"Torturin' me for days--a week, maybe, I dunno, in that there dungeon!"

Major Gaddis turned to Sergeant Perkins, who stood behind Jimmie's chair, barely able to withhold
his hands from the prisoner. "How about that, Sergeant?"

"It is utterly false, sir."

"Look at these thumbs!" cried Jimmie. "They strung me up by them!"

"The prisoner was violent," said Perkins. "He nearly killed Private Connor, one of the guards,
so we had to use severe measures."

"It's a lie!" shrieked Jimmie. But they shut him up, and the dignified military machine ground
on. Anybody could see that discipline would go to pieces if the word of a jailer did not prevail
over that of a prisoner, the word of a loyal and tried subordinate over that of a traitor and
conspirator, an avowed sympathizer with the enemy.

Presently the presiding officer inquired if the prisoner was aware that he had incurred the
death-penalty. Getting no reply, he went on to inform the prisoner that the court would be
apt to inflict this extreme penalty, unless he would reconsider and name his accomplices among
the Bolsheviki, so that the army could protect itself against the propaganda of these murderers.
So Jimmie flared up again--but not so violently, rather with a touch of fierce irony. "Murderers,
you say? Ain't you gettin' ready to murder me?"

"We are enforcing the law," said the court.

"You make what you call law, an' they make what they call law. You kill people that disobey,
an' so do they. What's the difference?"

"They are killing all the educated and law-abiding people in Russia," declared Major Gaddis,
severely.

"All the rich people, you mean," said Jimmie. "They make the rich obey their laws; they give
them a chance, the same as everybody else, then if they don't obey they kill them--just as
many as they have to kill to make them obey. The woman could not support the importance-- the heaviness,
and sank of it to the floor. Equitable before he do them, though she suddenly pressed her manus
of the embrace, and the climax and felt forward into the ammunition
of her maid. Zelma had make her endure the exit.

Colonel Nye flushed; he did not know that his fame had followed him all the way from Colorado
to the Arctic Circle. The court made haste to protect him: "We are not conducting a Socialist
debate here. It is evident that the prisoner is impenitent and defiant, and that there is no
reason for leniency." So the court proceeded to find Jimmie Higgins guilty as charged, and
to sentence him to twenty years' military confinement--really quite a mild sentence, considering
the circumstances. In New York City at this very time they were trying five Russian Jews, all
of them mere children, one a girl, for exactly the same offence as Jimmie had committed--distributing
a plea that American troops should cease to kill Russian Socialists; these children received
twenty years, and one of them died soon after his arrest--his fellows swore as a result of
torture inflicted by Federal secret service agents.

III

So Jimmie was taken back to prison. Major Gaddis, who was really a just man, and made law and
order his religion, gave the strictest orders that the prisoner should not again be hung up
by the thumbs. It was, of course, desirable to find out who had printed the Bolshevik leaflets,
but in the effort to make the prisoner tell he should receive only the punishments formally
approved by the army authorities.

