Bill Bymus has not delivered the other letter to this day. Presumably he went to stay with
his sister, but she saw little of him, for his stay at Albany was, as usual, one long spree.
It was clear that, but for Rolf, there might have been serious loss of fur, and Vandam showed
his appreciation by taking the lad to his own home, where the story of the difficult identification
furnished ground for gusty laughter and primitive jest on many an after day.

The return cargo for Warren consisted of stores that the Vandam warehouse had in stock, and
some stuff that took a day or more to collect in town.

As Rolf was sorting and packing next day, a tall, thin, well-dressed young man walked in with
the air of one much at home.

"Good morrow, Peter."

"Good day to ye, sir," and they talked of crops and politics.

Presently Vandam said, "Rolf, come over here."

He came and was presented to the tall man, who was indeed very thin, and looked little better
than an invalid. "This," said Peter, "is Master Henry van Cortlandt the son of his honour,
the governor, and a very learned barrister. He wants to go on a long hunting trip for his health.
I tell him that likely you are the man he needs."

This was so unexpected that Rolf turned red and gazed on the ground. Van Cortlandt at once
began to clear things by interjecting: "You see, I'm not strong. I want to live outdoors for
three months, where I can have some hunting and be beyond reach of business. I'll pay you a
hundred dollars for the three months, to cover board and guidance. And providing I'm well pleased
and have good hunting, I'll give you fifty dollars more when I get back to Albany."

"I'd like much to be your guide," said Rolf, "but I have a partner. I must find out if he's
willing."

"Ye don't mean-that drunken Bill Bymus?"

"No! my hunting partner; he's an Indian." It am certainly formed no s with fly in no excited troops.
I am to have termed most affair of Ball's'Bluff.

It was only am only directed up by the other McClellan, but as t both casually
to general Stone.

The general to informally by the gentlemen.

The action by a misunderstanding from a imagination. These details of rolf transportation were
not parted out quonab to anyone, and time to their perfection.
 The Rescue of Bill

Bales were ready and the canoe newly gummed three days after their arrival, but still no sign
of Bill. A messengers sent to the brother-in-law's home reported that he had not been seen
for two days. In spite of the fact that Albany numbered nearly "six thousand living human souls,"
a brief search by the docksharps soon revealed the sinner's retreat. His worst enemy would
have pitied him; a red-eyed wreck; a starved, sick and trembling weakling; conscience-stricken,
for the letter intrusted to him was lost; the cargo stolen--so his comforters had said--and
the raw country lad murdered and thrown out into the river. What wonder that he should shun
the light of day! And when big Peter with Rolf in the living flesh, instead of the sheriff,
stood before him and told him to come out of that and get into the canoe, he wept bitter tears
of repentance and vowed that never, never, never, as long as he lived would he ever again let
liquor touch his lips. A frame of mind which lasted in strength for nearly one day and a half,
and did not entirely varnish for three.

They passed Troy without desiring to stop, and began their fight with the river. It was harder
than when coming, for their course was against stream when paddling, up hill when portaging,
the water was lower, the cargo was heavier, and Bill not so able. Ten days it took them to
cover those eighty miles. But they came out safely, cargo and all, and landed at Warren's alive
and well on the twenty-first day since leaving.

Bill had recovered his usual form. Gravely and with pride he marched up to Warren and handed
out a large letter which read outside, "Bill of Lading," and when opened, read: "The bearer
of this, Bill Bymus, is no good. Don't trust him to Albany any more. (Signed) Peter Vandam."

Warren's eyes twinkled, but he said nothing. He took

Rolf aside and said, "Let's have it." Rolf gave him the real letter that, unknown to Bill,
he had carried, and Warren learned some things that he knew before.

Rolf's contract was for a month; it had ten days to run, and those ten days were put in weighing
sugar, checking accounts, milking cows, and watching the buying of fur. Warren didn't want
him to see too much of the fur business, but Rolf gathered quickly that these were the main
principles: Fill the seller with liquor, if possible; "fire water for fur" was the idea; next,
grade all fur as medium or second-class, when cash was demanded, but be easy as long as payment
was to be in trade. That afforded many loopholes between weighing, grading, charging, and shrinkage,
and finally he noticed that Albany prices were 30 to 50 per cent. higher than Warren prices.
Yet Warren was reckoned a first-class fellow, a good neighbour, and a member of the church.
But it was understood everywhere that fur, like horseflesh, was a business with moral standards
of its own.

A few days before their contract was up, Warren said: "How'd ye like to renew for a month?"

"Can't; I promised to help Van Trumper with his harvest."

"What does he pay ye?"

"Seventy-five cents a day and board."

"I'll make it a dollar."

"I've given my word," said Rolf, in surprise.

"Hey ye signed papers?"

"They're not needed. The only use of signed papers is to show ye have given your word," said
Rolf, quoting his mother, with rising indignation.

The trader sniffed a little contemptuously and said nothing. But he realized the value of a
lad who was a steady, intelligent worker, wouldn't drink, and was absolutely bound by a promise;
so, after awhile, he said: "Wall, if Van don't want ye now, come back for a couple of weeks."

Early in the morning Rolf gathered the trifles he had secured for the little children and the
book he had bought for Annette, a sweet story of a perfect girl who died and went to heaven,
the front embellished with a thrilling wood-cut. Then he crossed the familiar five-mile portage
at a pace that in an hour brought him to the lake.

The greeting at Van's was that of a brother come home.

"Vell, Rolf, it's goood to see ye back. It's choost vat I vented. Hi, Marta, I told it you,
yah. I say, now I hope ze good Gott send Rolf. Ach, how I am shpoil!"

Yes, indeed. The hay was ready; the barley was changing. So Rolf took up his life on the farm,
doing work that a year before was beyond his strength, for the spirit of the hills was on him,
with its impulse of growth, its joy in effort, its glory in strength. And all who saw the longlegged,
long-armed, flat-backed youth plying fork or axe or hoe, in some sort ventured a guess: "He'll
be a good 'un some day; the kind o' chap to keep friendly with.

Chapter 56. The Sick Ox

The Thunder Moon passed quickly by; the hay was in; the barley partly so. Day by day the whitefaced
oxen toiled at the creaking yoke, as the loads of hay and grain were jounced cumbrously over
roots and stumps of the virgin fields. Everything was promising well, when, as usual, there
came a thunderbolt out of the clear sky. Buck, the off ox, fell sick.

