"The fetters are easily flung off, at least," said Blondel, again sweeping his fingers over
the strings, as one who would rather have played than listened to criticism.

"But why put them on, man?" continued the King. "Wherefore thrust thy genius into iron bracelets?
I marvel how you got forward at all. I am sure I should not have been able to compose a stanza
in yonder hampered measure."

Blondel looked down, and busied himself with the strings of his harp, to hide an involuntary
smile which crept over his features; but it escaped not Richard's observation.

"By my faith, thou laughest at me, Blondel," he said; "and, in good truth, every man deserves
it who presumes to play the master when he should be the pupil. The child left the locket with
her new friend to be taken care of until she might find the owner, and then went crying matches
through the streets, with a happy heart, little dreaming of what
would result from her morning's work.

Only a few days after that a visitor to the artist's studio was admiring
his latest picture, called "The Model Match Girl."

                   

                    

     "What a strange title?" she said.
     
     And he laughed as he replied: "Yes, I gave it that name to please
     my wife, who brought me the girl. She was really
     a model in regard to honesty." And then he told
     the story of the locket, and of the gratitude
     of the little girl for the ice-cream the kind owner
     of the locket had given her; and finally the locket was produced,
and recognized by the visitor as her own.

     
     
     "It must have fallen from my chain while I talked to
     the child, and yet the dishonest girl got hold of
     it, after all, before my little match girl had seen it. How
     I wish I could find her!"
     
     Said the artist in reply: "Well, the girl is coming in a day or two
to look at the picture, and I will send her to you.

     I had no idea that it was you from whom the locket
     had been stolen. It is strange indeed!"
     
     And thus ere very long Madge met her first kind friend, and was led
     to tell the whole story of her pitiful life and craving
     for love. And at last, through the lady's continued
     kindness, little Madge was transferred with many other
     little children from the crowded, noisy, and unwholesome street which
had so long been her home, to the care of those whose business it
is to take just such poor orphaned little ones to new and happy homes
far off in the country, where warm, kind hearts are willing and anxious
to adopt them, and bring them up to useful womanhood.

     "This token my master, Sir Thomas a Kent,
     Restores to the Princess of fair Benevent;
     He that climbs the tall tree has won right to the fruit,
     He that leaps the wide gulf should prevail in his suit;
     Through life's utmost peril the prize I have won,
     And now must the faith of my mistress be shown:
     For she who prompts knights on such danger to run
     Must avouch his true service in front of the sun.

     "'I restore,' says my master, 'the garment I've worn,
     And I claim of the Princess to don it in turn;
     For its stains and its rents she should prize it the more,
     Since by shame 'tis unsullied, though crimson'd with gore.'"
     Then deep blush'd the Princess--yet kiss'd she and press'd
     The blood-spotted robes to her lips and her breast.
     "Go tell my true knight, church and chamber shall show
     If I value the blood on this garment or no."

     And when it was time for the nobles to pass,
     In solemn procession to minster and mass,
     The first walk'd the Princess in purple and pall,
     But the blood-besmear'd night-robe she wore over all;
     And eke, in the hall, where they all sat at dine,
     When she knelt to her father and proffer'd the wine,
     Over all her rich robes and state jewels she wore
     That wimple unseemly bedabbled with gore.

     Then lords whisper'd ladies, as well you may think,
     And ladies replied with nod, titter, and wink;
     And the Prince, who in anger and shame had look'd down,
     Turn'd at length to his daughter, and spoke with a frown:
     "Now since thou hast publish'd thy folly and guilt,
     E'en atone with thy hand for the blood thou hast spilt;
     Yet sore for your boldness you both will repent,
     When you wander as exiles from fair Benevent."

     Then out spoke stout Thomas, in hall where he stood,
     Exhausted and feeble, but dauntless of mood:
     "The blood that I lost for this daughter of thine,
     I pour'd forth as freely as flask gives its wine;
     And if for my sake she brooks penance and blame,
     Do not doubt I will save her from suffering and shame;
     And light will she reck of thy princedom and rent,
     When I hail her, in England, the Countess of Kent." 

"But what have you done with it, Archy?" asked mamma, turning around as she rose to have a full
view of the children, and not seeing the umbrella.

"Why, the Green Wizard turned it into this music-box; but we'll go
right off and get him to turn it back.

He was a real nice Wizard, and will do anything we ask."

"And he danced, and we danced," said Gertie, her eyes fairly dancing
in her head.

Mamma Stewardson was much puzzled to know what all this meant, so
she called Gertie and Archy to her, that they might slowly explain.

Uncle Ebenezer stood quiet almost a minute, running his fingers through his hair, until it
stood on end like porcupine quills. "Ha! I have it," said he. "Some rascally tramp has taken my
umbrella from these innocent children, and given them this trumpery
music-box to amuse them while he escaped."

"Why, Uncle Ebenezer, the music plays splendidly," said Gertie.

"Yes, my dear; yet, though I can buy a thousand more boxes precisely like that one, there isn't
one more such an umbrella. But where is Adolphus? He must go after
that tramp."

"I think he is down at the pond sketching," answered
mamma.

"Then I must go," exclaimed Uncle Ebenezer, reaching the hat-rack
in exactly five steps. He clapped on the first hat he came to-- it
was mamma's sun-hat, all trimmed with wild grasses. Then running through
the kitchen, as the nearest way, he spied old John's stable boots,
into which he jumped, kicking off his slippers; and in a jiffy was
on a full run toward the woods, with his long coat flying out behind,
mamma's hat bouncing up and down on his head.

In the course of an
hour Uncle Ebenezer came back, but without finding the umbrella or
catching the Wizard. It must be decisive."

"Tell him," said Edith, "that the poorest of the Plantagenets will rather wed with misery than
with misbelief."

"Shall I say with slavery, Edith?" said the King. "Methinks that is nearer thy thoughts."

"There is no room," said Edith, "for the suspicion you so grossly insinuate. Slavery of the
body might have been pitied, but that of the soul is only to be despised. Shame to thee, King
of merry England. Thou hast enthralled both the limbs and the spirit of a knight, one scarce
less famed than thyself."

"Should I not prevent my kinswoman from drinking poison, by sullying the vessel which contained
it, if I saw no other means of disgusting her with the fatal liquor?" replied the King.

"It is thyself," answered Edith, "that would press me to drink poison, because it is proffered
in a golden chalice."

"Edith," said Richard, "I cannot force thy resolution; but beware you shut not the door which
Heaven opens. The hermit of Engaddi--he whom Popes and Councils have regarded as a prophet--hath
read in the stars that thy marriage shall reconcile me with a powerful enemy, and that thy
husband shall be Christian, leaving thus the fairest ground to hope that the conversion of
the Soldan, and the bringing in of the sons of Ishmael to the pale of the church, will be the
consequence of thy wedding with Saladin. Come, thou must make some sacrifice rather than mar
such happy prospects."

"Men may sacrifice rams and goats," said Edith, "but not honour and conscience. [Begun in No.
31 of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE, June 1.] THE MORAL PIRATES.

BY W. L. ALDEN.

CHAPTER XII.

Though no tramps appeared during the night, the sentinels proved
to be useful; for as soon as the day began to dawn, Harry, who was
on sentry duty, called his comrades, and thus they were enabled to
get breakfast early, and to start before six o'clock.

They had to wait half an hour for the first lock to be opened, but after that they had no
difficulty in passing through the other locks. They rowed steadily, taking turns at the oars, and
occasionally fastening the boat to the stern of a canal-boat, which
would tow them while they took a short rest.

Early in the afternoon they reached Fort Edward, where they disembarked; and Harry and Tom went in search
of a team, which they hired to carry them to Warrensburg, on the Schroon branch of the Hudson. When
the teamster drove down to the bank of the canal, Tom and the Sharpe
boys began to unload the boat.

Harry stopped them. "There isn't any use in taking the things out of the
boat," said he. "We can draw her out of the canal and put her on the
wagon just as she is." "Her stern will dip under when we haul her
bow out," said Tom.

"No, it won't," replied Harry. "Let's take the things out of the stern-sheets, anyhow," urged
Tom. "All our shoes are there, and we can't afford to lose them." "Nothing will happen to
them," answered Harry, confidently. "It's my boat, and I'm going
to haul her out with the things in her."

Tom said no more, but took hold of the bow of the boat with the others,
and they began to pull her out of the water.

As Tom had prophesied, when she was about half way out her stern
dipped under, the water poured in, and nearly everything in the after-part
of the boat floated out.

The harm was done now; so the boys hastily dragged the boat up the
bank, and then began to lament their losses.

     There was not a shoe left, except the shoes that
     Harry and Tom
     had put on when they went in search of the team. The mast and sail
and two oars were floating on the water, and a quantity of small
articles, including the tin frying-pans and a tin pail, had shared
the fate of the shoes, and were lying at the bottom of the canal.

"It
was my fault," said Harry, "and I beg everybody's pardon.
        SIEGE OF DAMASCUS.

On the subsequent morning Richard was invited to a conference by Philip of France, in which
the latter, with many expressions of his high esteem for his brother of England, communicated
to him in terms extremely courteous, but too explicit to be misunderstood, his positive intention
to return to Europe, and to the cares of his kingdom, as entirely despairing of future success
in their undertaking, with their diminished forces and civil discords. Richard remonstrated,
but in vain; and when the conference ended he received without surprise a manifesto from the
Duke of Austria, and several other princes, announcing a resolution similar to that of Philip,
and in no modified terms, assigning, for their defection from the cause of the Cross, the inordinate
ambition and arbitrary domination of Richard of England. Fortunately Harry had made a miss; and
he found his whole charge of shot the next morning in the trunk of a big white birch-tree. The
innocent cow that Joe had mistaken for a bear was, however, so thoroughly frightened that she
did not come near the camp again.

