"I don't expect fame; and as for money, of course I don't think of that. But I should like
to know that it had been read by one or two persons who could understand it. I have given to
it the best of my time, the best of my labour. I cannot but think that there is something in
it." Thus pleads the unsuccessful one for mercy.

And thus answers to him the successful one, with no grain of mercy in his composition:--"My
dear Johnson, my maxim is this, that in this world every man gets in the long run exactly what
he deserves--"

"Did Milton get what he deserved?"

"These are not the days of Milton. I don't want to hurt your feelings; but old friends as we
are, I should not forgive myself if I didn't tell you what I really think. Poetry is all very
well; but you can't create a taste for it if it doesn't exist. Nobody that I know of cares
a d---- for Iphigenia."

"You think I should change my subject, then?"

"To tell you the truth, I think you should change your trade. This is the third attempt, you
know. I dare say they are very good in their way; but if the world liked them, the world would
have found it out by this time. 'Vox populi, vox Dei'--that is my motto--I don't trust my own
judgment; I trust that of the public. If you will take my advice, you will give up Iphigenia
and the rest of them. You see you are doing nothing whatever at the bar," &c., &c.

And thus Johnson is left, without a scrap of comfort, a word of consolation, a spark of sympathy;
and yet he had given to that Iphigenia of his the best that was in him to give. Had his publisher
sold ten thousand copies of it, how Thompson would have admired it! how he would have pressed
the poet in his arms, and have given him champagne up at Richmond! But who now has sympathy
for failure? To fail is to be disgraced. Væ victis!

There is something very painful in these races, which we English are always running, to one
who has tenderness enough to think of the nine beaten horses instead of the one who has conquered.
Look at that list which has just come out after our grand national struggle at Cambridge. How
many wranglers are there? Thirty, shall we say? and it is always glorious to be a wrangler.
Out of that thirty there is probably but one who has not failed, who is not called on to submit
to the inward grief of having been beaten. The youth who is second, who has thus shown himself
to be possessed of a mass of erudition sufficient to crush an ordinary mind to the earth, is
ready to eat his heart with true bitterness of spirit. After all his labour, his midnight oil,
his many sleepless nights, his deserted pleasures, his racking headaches, Amaryllis abandoned,
and Neæra seen in the arms of another--! After all this, to be beaten by Jones! Had it been
Green or Smith he could have borne it. Would it not have been better to do as others had done?
he could have been contented to have gone out in the crowd; but there is nothing so base as
to be second--and then second to Jones!

Out of the whole lot, Jones alone is contented; and he is told by his physician that he must
spend his next two winters at Cairo. The intensity of his application has put his lungs into
very serious jeopardy.

It was at Oxford, in the year 184--, that a young man sat in his college-rooms at Balliol a
wretched victim to unsuccessful competition. It had been everything to him to come out as a
first in classics, and he had dared to dream even of a double-first. But he had failed in both.
The lists had just appeared, and he was only a second-class man. Now, a second-class man is
not much thought of at Balliol, and he had lost his chance of an immediate fellowship.

But this was perhaps hardly the worst of it. Arthur Wilkinson, for such was this gentleman's
name, had hitherto run his race in life alongside a friend and rival named George Bertram;
and in almost every phase of life had hitherto been beaten. The same moment that had told Wilkinson
of his failure had told him also that Bertram had obtained the place he had so desired. Bertram
was the only double-first man of his year.

As these two young men will play the foremost parts in the following pages, I will endeavour
to explain, in as few words as possible, who each of them was. As Bertram seems to have been
the favourite with fortune, I will begin with him.

His father at the time alluded to was still alive, but his son George had seen but little of
him. Sir Lionel Bertram had been a soldier of fortune, which generally, I believe, means a
soldier without a fortune, and in that capacity he was still in some sort fighting his country's
battles. At the present moment he held a quasi-military position in Persia, where he had been
for the last five years, and previously to that he had served in Canada, India, the Cape of
Good Hope, and on some special mission at Monte Video. He had, therefore, seen a good deal
of the world; but very little of his only child. Mrs. Bertram, George's mother, had died early
in life, and Mr. (afterwards Sir Lionel) Bertram had roamed the world free from all encumbrances.

The Rev. Arthur Wilkinson, vicar of Hurst Staple, on the borders of Hampshire and Berkshire,
had married a first-cousin of Mrs. Bertram's; and when young George Bertram, at the age of
nine, was tossing about the world rather in want of a fixed home, Mr. Wilkinson undertook to
give him that home, and to educate him with his own eldest child till they should both be sent
to some school. For three years George Bertram lived at Hurst Staple, and was educated accordingly.
During these years he used to go annually for one month to the house of an uncle, who in due
time will also be introduced to the reader; and therefore, not unnaturally, this month was
regarded by the boy as his holidays.

Now, it may as well be explained in this place that Sir Lionel Bertram, though a very gallant
man, and peculiarly well adapted to do business with outlandish people, had never succumbed
to a habit of punctuality in pecuniary matters. An arrangement had been perhaps rather named
than made, that one hundred and thirty pounds per annum should be paid for young Bertram's
needs; and as this was to include pocket-money, clothing, and washing, as well as such trifles
as the boy's maintenance and education, perhaps the bargain was not a very hard one as regarded
Sir Lionel. The first seventy-five pounds were paid; but after that, up to the end of the second
year, Mr. Wilkinson had received no more. As he was a poor man, with six children of his own,
and little besides his living, he then thought it better to mention the matter to Sir Lionel's
brother in London. The balance was instantly paid, and Mr. Wilkinson had no further trouble
on that head. Nor had he much trouble on any other head as regarded young Bertram. The lad
was perhaps not fit to be sainted, and gave Mrs. Wilkinson the usual amount of trouble as regarded
his jackets and pantaloons; but, on the whole, he was a good boy, free and generous in his
temper, quick in his parts, affectionate in disposition, and full of humour. Those who examined
him most closely (among whom, perhaps, Mr. Wilkinson was not included) might have observed
that he was hardly as steady as he might have been in his likings and dislikings; that he made
too little of the tasks which he learnt without trouble; and that, in fact, he was not sufficiently
solicitous about anything. He was, however, undoubtedly a lad of great promise, and one of
whom any father might have been proud.

He was not a handsome boy, nor did he become a handsome man. His face was too solid, his cheeks
too square, and his forehead too heavy; but his eyes, though small, were bright, and his mouth
was wonderfully marked by intelligence. When he grew to be a man, he wore no beard, not even
the slightest apology for a whisker, and this perhaps added to the apparent heaviness of his
face; but he probably best understood his own appearance, for in those days no face bore on
it more legible marks of an acute mind.

At the age of twelve, he was sent to Winchester, and as his holidays were still passed with
his uncle, he then ceased to regard Hurst Staple as his home. Twice a year, as he went up to
town, he stayed there for a couple of days; but he was soon looked on as a visitor, and the
little Wilkinsons no longer regarded him as half a brother in reality and quite a brother in love.

Arthur Wilkinson was very nearly of the same age. He was just older than young Bertram--by
three months or so; just sufficiently to give to Wilkinson a feeling of seniority when they
first met, and a consciousness that as he was the senior in age, he should be the senior in
scholastic lore. But this consciousness Wilkinson was not able to attain; and during all the
early years of his life, he was making a vain struggle to be as good a man as his cousin; that
is, as good in scholarship, as good in fighting, as good in play, and as good in spirit.

In looks, at any rate, Arthur was superior to George; and much consolation did his mother receive
from this conviction. Young Wilkinson was a very handsome lad, and grew up to be a handsome
man; but his beauty was of that regular sort which is more pleasing in a boy than in a man.
He also was an excellent lad, and no parent could be so thankless as to be other than proud
of him. All men said all good things of him, so that Mr. Wilkinson could not but be contented.
Nevertheless, one would always wish to see one's own son not less bright than one's friend's son.

Arthur Wilkinson was also sent to Winchester. Perhaps it would have been better for the cousins
that they should have gone to different schools. The matter, however, had been left to Mr.
Wilkinson, and as he thought Winchester good for his own son, he naturally thought the same
school good for Sir Lionel's son. But Bertram was entered as a commoner, whereas Wilkinson
was in the college. Those who know Winchester will understand, that though, as regarded school
business and school hours, they were at the same establishment, they were not together at the
much more important hours of eating, sleeping, and playing. They did not cease to be friends,
but they did cease to live together as friends generally do live when educated at the same school.

At Winchester they both did fairly well; but Bertram did much the best. He got the prizes,
whereas his cousin did but nearly get them. He went up from class to class above the other,
and when the last tussle for pride of place came on at the close of their boyish career, Bertram
was the victor. He stood forth to spout out Latin hexameters, and to receive the golden medal,
while Wilkinson had no other privilege but to sit still and listen to them.

I believe masters but seldom recognize the agony of spirit with which boys endure being beaten
in these contests. Boys on such subjects are very reticent; they hardly understand their own
feelings enough to speak of them, and are too much accustomed both to ridicule and censure
to look anywhere for sympathy. A favourite sister may perhaps be told of the hard struggle
and the bitter failure, but not a word is said to any one else. His father, so thinks the boy,
is angry at his failure; and even his mother's kisses will hardly be warmed by such a subject.
We are too apt to think that if our children eat pudding and make a noise they require no sympathy.
A boy may fail at school, and afterwards eat much pudding, and make much noise; but, ah! how
his young heart may sigh for some one to grieve with him over his failures!

Wilkinson was unfortunate at school. It was a great object with his father that he should get
a scholarship at New College, to which, as all the world knows, his path lay through the college
of Winchester. When his time came, he was all but successful--but he was not successful. The
vacancies in his year were few in number, only three, and of these two were preoccupied, according
to the then rule of the place, by those heaven-born Wykamists, called founder's kin He was
only the second best on the list, and lost the prize.

Bertram, having been a commoner, had had no right to think of New College; but at the time
when he was to be removed to Oxford, his uncle gave him to understand that money was a great
object to him. His father's mind was still too fully absorbed in the affairs of his country
to enable him to think much of his son's expenditure, and his uncle at this period took a fit
of disgust on the subject.

"Very well," said George, "I will give up Oxford if I cannot do something for myself."

He went up, however, to Trinity, and became a candidate for a scholarship there. This he obtained
to the great surprise of all the Wilkinsons and of himself. In those days, a lad of eighteen
who could get a scholarship at Trinity was considered to be nearly safe in his career. I do
not know how far this may be altered now. The uncle, when he heard of his nephew's success,
immediately allowed him what would have been amply sufficient for him had he been in possession
of no income from his scholarship. Bertram, therefore, had been almost a rich man during his
residence at Oxford.

Young Wilkinson, though he lost New College, received a small scholarship from Winchester,
and he also was sent by his father to Oxford. To enable him to do this, Mr. Wilkinson was forced
to make a great struggle. He had five other children--four daughters, and one younger son,
and it was with difficulty that he could make up the necessary allowance to carry Arthur through
the University. But he did do so, and the disappointed Wykamist went up to Balliol with an
income amounting to about half that which his cousin enjoyed.

We need not follow them very accurately through their college careers. They both became prizemen--one
by force of intellect, and the other by force of industry. They both went through their little
goes and other goes with sufficient zeal, up to that important day on which the great go of
all was to be undergone. They both belonged to the same debating society at Oxford, and though
they thought very differently on most important subjects, they remained, with some few temporary
interruptions, fast friends through their four years of Oxford residence.

There were periods when the Balliol man was considered by his friends to run a better chance
of academical success than his brighter cousin at Trinity. Wilkinson worked hard during his
three first years, and Bertram did not. The style of mind, too, of the former was the more
adapted to win friends at Oxford. In those days the Tracts were new, and read by everybody,
and what has since been called Puseyism was in its robust infancy. Wilkinson proclaimed himself,
while yet little more than a boy, to be an admirer of poor Froude and a follower of Newman.
Bertram, on the other hand, was unsparing in his ridicule of the "Remains," set himself in
full opposition to the Sewells, and came out as a poet--successfully, as far as the Newdegate
was concerned--in direct opposition to Keble and Faber.

For three years Wilkinson worked hard and regularly; but the éclat attending on his success
somewhat injured him. In his fourth year, or, at any rate, in the earlier part of it, he talked
more than he read, and gave way too much to the delights of society--too much, at least, for
one who was so poor, and to whom work was so necessary. He could not keep his position by dint
of genius, as Bertram might do; consequently, though he was held to have taken honours in taking
his degree, he missed the high position at which he had aimed; and on the day which enabled
him to write himself bachelor of arts, he was in debt to the amount of a couple of hundred
pounds, a sum which it was of course utterly out of his power to pay, and nearly as far out
of the power of his father.

It had always been Bertram's delight to study in such a manner that men should think he did
not study. There was an affectation in this, perhaps not uncommon to men of genius, but which
was deleterious to his character--as all affectations are. It was, however, the fact, that
during the last year before his examination, he did study hard. There was a set round him at
his college among whom he was esteemed as a great man--a little sect of worshippers, who looked
for their idol to do great things; and it was a point of honour with them to assist this pretence
of his. They gloried in Bertram's idleness; told stories, not quite veracious, of his doings
at wine-parties; and proved, to the satisfaction of admiring freshmen, that he thought of nothing
but his horse and his boating. He could do without study more than any other man could do with
it; and as for that plodding Balliol hero, he might look to be beaten out of the field without
an effort.

The Balliol men had been very confident in their hero up to the last half-year; but then they
began to doubt. Poor Wilkinson was beaten by his rival out of the field, though, probably,
not without an effort. We may say that no man ever gets a double-first in anything without
an effort. But be that as it may, Wilkinson was sitting alone, a very unhappy man, in his rooms
at Balliol, while Bertram was being fêted to his heart's content at Trinity.

It is a grievous thing to have to write home to one's father, and to say that one has failed
when that father has so anxiously longed for success. Arthur Wilkinson would have been a made
man for life--made according to the making which both his father and himself at that time thought
the most desirable--if his name had but appeared in that first-class list. A double-first his
father had not hoped for; but, in resolving not to hope for it, he had consoled himself with
thinking that the hopes which he did form were the more certain of success;--and then there
would always be that further chance of happiness in store. But now Arthur Wilkinson had to
tell his father that he was neither first nor double-first. His degree was very respectable
for a man who had not looked for much, for one who had not been talked of in high places; but
it was not respectable for Wilkinson of Balliol.

Væ victis! He was indeed unhappy as he sat there alone, meditating how he would frame his letter.
There were no telegraphs or telegrams in those days, and it behoved him to write. If he did
not, his father would be at Oxford before the next night was over. How should he write? Would
it not be better to write to his mother? And then what should he do, or what should he say,
about that accursed debt?

His pen and ink and paper were on the table, and he had got into his chair for the purpose.
There he had been for some half-hour, but still not a word was written; and his chair had somehow
got itself dragged round to the fire. He was thus sitting when he heard a loud knock at his
outer door.

"Come; open the door," said Bertram's voice, "I know you are there."

Wilkinson still sat silent. He had not seen Bertram since the lists had come out, and he could
hardly make up his mind whether he could speak to him or no.

"I know you're there, and I'll have the door down if you don't open it. There's nobody with
me," shouted the manly voice of his triumphant friend.

Slowly Wilkinson got up and undid the lock. He tried to smile as he opened the door; but the
attempt was a failure. However, he could still speak a few words, heavy as his heart was.

