I must not say that Lucy was not proud in these moments--that her heart was not elated at these
thoughts. Success does beget pride, as failure begets shame. But her pride was of that sort
which is in no way disgraceful to either man or woman, and was accompanied by pure true love,
and a full resolution to do her duty in that state of life to which it had pleased her God
to call her. She did rejoice greatly to think that she had been chosen, and not Griselda. Was
it possible that having loved she should not so rejoice, or that, rejoicing, she should not
be proud of her love? They spent the whole winter abroad, leaving the dowager Lady Lufton to
her plans and preparations for their reception at Framley Court; and in the following spring
they appeared in London, and there set up their staff. Lucy had some inner tremblings of the
spirit, and quiverings about the heart, at thus beginning her duty before the great world,
but she said little or nothing to her husband on the matter. Other women had done as much before
her time, and by courage had gone through with it. It would be dreadful enough, that position
in her own house with lords and ladies bowing to her, and stiff members of Parliament for whom
it would be necessary to make small talk; but, nevertheless, it was to be endured. The time
came, and she did endure it. The time came, and before the first six weeks were over she found
that it was easy enough. The lords and ladies got into their proper places and talked to her
about ordinary matters in a way that made no effort necessary, and the members of Parliament
were hardly more stiff than the clergymen she had known in the neighbourhood of Framley. She
had not been long in town before she met Lady Dumbello. At this interview also she had to overcome
some little inward emotion. On the few occasions on which she had met Griselda Grantly at Framley
they had not much progressed in friendship, and Lucy had felt that she had been despised by
the rich beauty. She also in her turn had disliked, if she had not despised, her rival. But
how would it be now? Lady Dumbello could hardly despise her, and yet it did not seem possible
that they should meet as friends. They did meet, and Lucy came forward with a pretty eagerness
to give her hand to Lady Lufton's late favourite. Lady Dumbello smiled slightly--the same old
smile which had come across her face when they two had been first introduced in the Framley
drawing-room; the same smile without the variation of a line,--took the offered hand, muttered
a word or two, and then receded. It was exactly as she had done before. She had never despised
Lucy Robarts. She had accorded to the parson's sister the amount of cordiality with which she
usually received her acquaintance; and now she could do no more for the peer's wife. Lady Dumbello
and Lady Lufton have known each other ever since, and have occasionally visited at each other's
houses, but the intimacy between them has never gone beyond this.

The dowager came up to town for about a month, and while there was contented to fill a second
place. She had no desire to be the great lady in London. But then came the trying period when
they commenced their life together at Framley Court. The elder lady formally renounced her
place at the top of the table,--formally persisted in renouncing it though Lucy with tears
implored her to resume it. She said also, with equal formality--repeating her determination
over and over again to Mrs. Robarts with great energy,--that she would in no respect detract
by interference of her own from the authority of the proper mistress of the house; but, nevertheless,
it is well known to every one at Framley that old Lady Lufton still reigns paramount in the parish.

"Yes, my dear; the big room looking into the little garden to the south was always the nursery;
and if you ask my advice, it will still remain so. But, of course, any room you please--"

And the big room looking into the little garden to the south is still the nursery at Framley Court.