So Lord John Russell has declared his inability to carry on the Government. Lord Stanley has
then declared his inability to form one until every other combination should have failed. We
have tried all possible combinations between Whigs and Peelites, and have not succeeded, and
now Lord Stanley throws up the game a second time! The Queen would be happy to consult you
and hear your advice in this dilemma. Possibly to-night's Debate may define the position of
Parties more clearly, and give a clue to what may be best to be done under the circumstances.
Ever yours, etc.

ALBERT.

Lord John Russell to the Prince Albert.

CHESHAM PLACE, 28th February 1851.

SIR,--The former Cabinet meet at eleven, at Lansdowne House.

It appears to me that the Queen might with advantage see Lord Lansdowne. He was in office with
Mr Fox and Lord Grenville in 1806; he has been distinguished and respected in political life
ever since; he is now desirous of retiring, and has therefore no personal object to gain. If
the Queen approves, Lord Lansdowne might wait on Her Majesty soon after twelve o'clock. I have
the honour to be, Sir, your Royal Highness's very dutiful Servant,

J. RUSSELL.

[Pageheading: LORD LANSDOWNE]

Queen Victoria to Lord Lansdowne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 28th February 1851.

It would be a great satisfaction to the Queen to hear Lord Lansdowne's advice in the present
critical state of affairs, and she would be glad if he could come to her at twelve this morning.
The Queen has sent to the Duke of Wellington in order to hear his opinion also; but he cannot
be here before to-night, being at Strathfieldsaye.

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

FRIDAY, 28th February 1851.

Lord Lansdowne, who arrived at twelve o'clock, was asked by the Queen what advice he could
offer her in the present complication. His answer was: "I wish indeed I had any good advice
to offer to your Majesty." He expressed his delight at the Queen having sent for the Duke of
Wellington. We talked generally of the state of affairs; he agreed in a remark of mine, that
I thought the Queen should be entirely guided in her choice of the person to construct a Government,
by the consideration which Party would now appear to be the strongest in the House of Commons.
On my asking, however, whether he knew if, on the failure of Lord Stanley to form a Government,
part of his followers would now give up Protection as past hope, and be prepared in future
to support the Peelite section of the Conservative Party, Lord Lansdowne said he had heard
nothing on the subject, nor could he give us more information on the chance of the Radicals
and Irish members now being more willing to support Lord John Russell in future. He liked Lord
Stanley's plan of dealing with the Papal Question, of which the Queen communicated to him the
outlines, was afraid of Sir J. Graham's excessive leaning towards economy, shook his head at
Lord John Russell's letter to the Bishop of Durham[10] which had been instrumental in bringing
on the present crisis, and confessed that he had been amongst those in the Cabinet who had
prevented the bringing forward of a measure of reform in the present Session. He offered to
do whatever might be most conducive to the Queen's comfort--stay out of office, or come into
office--as might be thought the most useful.

ALBERT.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I did not write to you yesterday, thinking I could perhaps give you some
more positive news to-day, but I cannot. I am still without a Government, and I am still trying
to hear and pause before I actually call to Lord John to undertake to form, or rather more
to continue, the Government. We have passed an anxious, exciting week, and the difficulties
are very peculiar; there are so many conflicting circumstances which render coalition between
those who agree in almost everything, and in particular on Free Trade, impossible, but the
"Papal Question" is the real and almost insuperable difficulty.

Lord Lansdowne is waiting to see me, and I must go, and with many thanks for your two kind
letters, ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: LORD JOHN RUSSELL]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 2nd March 1851. (Sunday.)

Lord Lansdowne, who arrived after church, had seen Lord John Russell and discussed with him
the Memorandum which we left with him yesterday. He had since drawn up a Memorandum himself
which embodied his views, and which he had not yet communicated to any one. He was very apprehensive
lest to begin a new Government with an open question would produce the greatest prejudice against
it in the public; he was still inclined therefore to recommend the continuance of the present
Government avowedly for the purpose of passing the Papal Bill, after which the Coalition might
take place, which, however, should be agreed upon and settled at this time. As the Duke of
Wellington has not yet sent his promised Memorandum, and Lord Lansdowne was anxious to hear
his opinion, the Queen commissioned him to appoint Lord John Russell to come at three o'clock,
and to go himself to the Duke of Wellington.

Lord John Russell, who arrived at the appointed time, and had not seen Lord Lansdowne's Memorandum
yet, read it over, and expressed great misgivings about the execution of the proposal. He said
he saw in fact, like Sir J. Graham, nothing but difficulties. He had ascertained that his Party
by no means liked the idea of a fusion, and had been much relieved when the attempt to form
a Coalition Ministry had failed. He was afraid that in the interval between their resuming
office and giving it up again every possible surmise would be current who were the Ministers
to be displaced, and every possible intrigue would spring up for and against particular members
of the Cabinet. He would prefer not to make any arrangements for the Coalition now, but merely
to engage to resign again after having carried the Papal Bill, when the Queen could try the
Coalition, and that failing, could entrust Lord Aberdeen and Sir J. Graham with the carrying
on of the Government, whose chief difficulty would then be removed. I objected to this--that
his Party might feel justly aggrieved if after their having carried him through the difficulty
of the Papal Measure, he were to throw them over and resign, and asked him whether his Cabinet
would not repent in the meantime and wish to stay in.

He answered that it would be entirely in his and Lord Lansdowne's hands to carry out the proposed
arrangements.

We asked him whether it would strengthen his hands if, instead of his only accepting the task
of continuing the Government till the Papal Measure had been passed, the Queen were to make
it a condition in giving him the Commission, that it should terminate then. He replied, "Certainly."
He begged, however, to be understood not to have given a decided opinion that the plan of "the
open Question" proposed in our Memorandum was not preferable, although he saw great objections
to that also, particularly as Sir J. Graham had reserved the statement of his principal objections
to the Papal Bill for the second reading. He promised to draw up a Memorandum, which he would
bring to-morrow at twelve o'clock, after having consulted some of his colleagues, and begged
that it might not be considered that he had accepted the Government till then.

One of the difficulties which we likewise discussed was the position of the financial measures
which required almost immediate attention, and still ought to be left open for the consideration
of the future Government.

We agreed that the pressing on the Papal Measure was the chief point, and that it ought to
be altered to meet the objections (as far as they are reasonable) of its opponents, strengthening
the declaratory part, however, to please Lord Stanley; and the Queen promised to call upon
Lord Stanley to give this so modified Bill the support of himself and his Party, which we thought
she could in fairness claim after all that had happened.

The Queen reiterated her objections to Lord Palmerston, and received the renewed promise that
her wishes should be attended to.

ALBERT.

[Pageheading: A COALITION IMPOSSIBLE]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 3rd March 1851.

Lord John Russell arrived at the hour appointed (twelve o'clock), and was sorry to inform the
Queen that all hope of a Coalition must be given up. He had found that his Party was very much
averse to it. On proposing to his former colleagues the plan of keeping Office now, and vacating
it after the Aggression Bill had passed, many of them, amongst which were Lord Grey, Sir Charles
Wood, Sir Francis Baring, declared they would not be warming-pans (an expression used at the
time of the Grey-Grenville Coalition), and would resign at once. The Duke of Wellington, whose
opinion the Queen had asked, had recommended the return of the old Cabinet to power. He (Lord
John) could therefore only advise that course, although he was conscious that it would be a
very weak Government, and one not likely to last any length of time.

He then read the Memorandum which he had drawn up and which follows here.[11]

The Queen now asked whether Lord John proposed a modification of his own Cabinet, to which
Lord John replied, None, except perhaps an exchange of Office between Sir C. Wood and Sir F.
Baring, if Sir Charles were to refuse bringing in a different budget from the one he had already
propounded; he was for maintaining the Income Tax, whilst Sir Francis was for repealing it
by degrees. The Queen then reminded Lord John of her objections to Lord Palmerston, and his
promise that Lord Palmerston should not again be thrust upon her as Foreign Secretary. Lord
John admitted to the promise, but said he could not think for a moment of resuming office and
either expel Lord Palmerston or quarrel with him. He (Lord John) was in fact the weakness and
Lord Palmerston the strength of the Government from his popularity with the Radicals.... He
said he was very anxious that he and Lord Lansdowne should bear the responsibility of removing
Lord Palmerston from the Foreign Office and not the Queen; her refusal now could only go to
the country as a personal objection on her part, and the country would be left without a Government
in consequence. On the Queen's reiterating that she wanted to keep Lord John and get rid of
Lord Palmerston, and that it was too painful to her to be put into the situation of having
actually to wish the fall of her own Government, Lord John promised to move Lord Palmerston
in the Easter recess, or to resign then himself if he should meet with difficulties; in the
meantime he must apprise Lord Palmerston of this intention, which he could explain to him as
a wish to make a general modification of his Government. He would offer him the Lieutenancy
of Ireland or the Presidency or lead in the House of Lords, which Lord Lansdowne would be ready
to resign. He might at that period perhaps get some of the Radicals into office or some Peelites.
The Queen finally entrusted Lord John with the Government on these conditions.

ALBERT.

    [Footnote 11: See next page.]

[Pageheading: LORD JOHN RUSSELL'S ADVICE]

[Pageheading: ECCLESIASTICAL TITLES BILL]

Memorandum by Lord John Russell.

3rd March 1851.

Her Majesty having tried in vain the formation of a Government--first, by Lord Stanley; second,
by Lord John Russell, Lord Aberdeen, and Sir James Graham; third, by Lord Aberdeen; fourth,
by Lord Stanley a second time--had recourse to the advice and opinion of the Duke of Wellington.
The Duke, admitting the great qualifications for office of the adherents of the late Sir Robert
Peel, yet advises the Queen to restore her former Ministers to office.

But supposing Her Majesty to follow that advice, a further question naturally arises: the late
Government having fallen from want of Parliamentary support, can they upon their return be
in any way strengthened, and be enabled to carry on the public business with more power and
efficiency?

This might be done in three ways: first, by a Coalition sooner or later with the Peel Party;
secondly, by admitting to office some of their own Radical supporters; thirdly, by seeking
aid from the Party which has followed Lord Stanley.

The first of these courses appears the most natural. The present Ministers are agreed with
the adherents of Sir Robert Peel on Free Trade, and on the policy which has regulated our finances
of late years. The difference between them is of a temporary nature. But it may be doubted
whether any strength would be gained by an immediate junction with that Party.

If such junction took place now, the Ministers coming in must oppose their colleagues on the
Ecclesiastical Titles Bill--an unseemly spectacle, a source of weakness, and probably the beginning
of strife, which would not end with the Bill in question.

If, on the other hand, the junction were delayed till the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill is disposed
of, the existing Ministry would be divided into two portions, one of which would have only
a temporary tenure of office. Rumours, cabals, and intrigues would have ample room to spread
their mischief in such a state of things.

But finally the Whig Party in the House of Commons would not be cordial supporters of the junction;
jealousy and discontent would soon break up the Ministry.

Secondly, by admitting to office some of their Radical supporters. This course must lead to
concessions on measures as well as men, and those concessions would provoke hostility in other
quarters. The great question of the defence of the country is besides one of too great importance
to be made a matter of compromise.

Third, by seeking aid from the Party which has followed Lord Stanley. This cannot be done by
means of official connection; but something might be effected by adopting measures calculated
to convince the Landed Interest that their sufferings were not disregarded.

Upon the whole, if the late Ministers are invited by your Majesty to resume office, the easiest
course would be to proceed at once with the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill. That question disposed
of, it would be seen whether the Ministry had sufficient strength to go on; if they had, they
might, as occasion arose, seek assistance from other quarters, looking to those with whom there
is the greatest agreement of opinion.

Should the Ministry, on the other hand, not receive Parliamentary support sufficient to enable
them to carry on the Government, the Queen would be in a position to form a new Government
free from the obstacles which have lately been fatal.

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 4th March 1851.

... The Queen was in hopes to have heard from Lord John Russell this morning relative to what
passed in the House of Commons last night. She wishes likewise to hear what takes place at
the meeting of Lord John's supporters to-day. The Queen must ask Lord John to keep her constantly
informed of what is going on, and of the temper of parties in and out of Parliament; for no
one can deny that the present state of affairs is most critical; and after all that has happened
it is absolutely necessary that the Queen should not be in a state of uncertainty, not to say
of ignorance, as to what is passing. She can else not form a just opinion of the position of
affairs.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 4th March 1851.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Pray receive my warmest thanks for two kind letters of the 28th, and my
excuses for the terribly incoherent scrawl of last Saturday. The dénouement of ten days of
the greatest anxiety and excitement I cannot call satisfactory, for it holds out only the prospect
of another crisis in a very short time, and the so much wished-for union of Parties has been
again frustrated. I have been speaking very strongly about Lord Palmerston to Lord John, and
he has promised that if the Government should still be in at Easter, then to make a change....
Lord Stanley can never succeed until he gives up Protection, which he would do, if the country
decides against him;[12] he has failed solely from the impossibility of finding one single
man capable to take the important Offices. He said last night to Lord John Russell, "I am l'homme
impossible; they cannot come to me again." Still it would be very desirable that there should
be a strong Conservative Party; nothing but the abandonment of Protection can bring this to
pass, and Lord Stanley cannot abandon it with honour till after the next Election. This is
the state of Parties, which is greatly erschwert by the Papal Question, which divides the Liberals
and Conservatives. In short, there never was such a complicated and difficult state of affairs.
Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Stockmar has been an immense comfort to us in our trials, and I hope you will tell him so.

    [Footnote 12: The Queen's judgment was amply confirmed by the
    events of 1852. See post, p. 404. note 1.]

[Pageheading: THE NATIONAL GALLERY]

Memorandum by the Queen.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 5th March 1851.

The Queen would give every facility to the selection of a good site for a new National Gallery,
and would therefore not object to its being built on to Kensington Palace or anywhere in Kensington
Gardens; but does not see why it should exactly be placed upon the site of the present Palace,
if not for the purpose of taking from the Crown the last available set of apartments. She is
not disposed to trust in the disposition of Parliament or the public to give her an equivalent
for these apartments from time to time when emergencies arise. The surrender of Kensington
Palace will most likely not be thanked for at the moment, and any new demand in consequence
of such surrender would be met with lavish abuse. As to economy in the construction, it will
most likely be best consulted by building on a spot perfectly free and unencumbered.

Lord John Russell to the Prince Albert.

CHESHAM PLACE, 14th March 1851.

SIR,--I cannot undertake to make any change in the Foreign Office. Our Party is hardly reunited,
and any break into sections, following one man or the other, would be fatal to us. I need not
say that the Queen would suffer if it were attributed to her desire, and that as I have no
difference of opinion on Foreign Policy, that could not fail to be the case.

Upon the whole, the situation of affairs is most perplexing. A Dissolution I fear would not
improve it.

I can only say that my Office is at all times at the Queen's disposal.

I have the honour to be, Sir, your Royal Highness's most dutiful Servant,

J. RUSSELL.

Queen Victoria to Sir George Grey.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 30th March 1851.

The Queen approves of the draft of a letter to the Archbishop of Canterbury. With respect to
the Archbishop's letter and the address, the Queen will receive it in the Closet. It seems
strange to propose as a remedy for the present evils in the Church, and for its evident great
disunion, 600 more churches to be built! There ought clearly to be some security given to those
who are to encourage such a scheme against the extension of those evils.

[Pageheading: THE GREAT EXHIBITION]

Lord John Russell to the Prince Albert.

PEMBROKE LODGE, 19th April 1851.

SIR,--Lord Granville came here yesterday to speak to me upon the order for opening the Exhibition
at one o'clock on the 1st of May. He is anxious to have the order changed, and the season-ticket
bearers admitted at eleven o'clock.

I did not give him any positive opinion on the subject. But the account he gave me of the route
which the Queen will follow in going to the Exhibition takes away the main objection which
I felt to the admission of visitors before one o'clock. It appears there cannot well be any
interruption to Her Majesty's progress to and from the Crystal Palace on the 1st of May.

I conclude that Her Majesty will not go in the State Coach, but in the same manner that Her
Majesty goes in state to the theatres....

I feel assured there will be no undue and inconvenient pressure of the crowd in the part of
the building in which Her Majesty may be. Colonel Wemyss and Colonel Bouverie might easily
be in attendance to request the visitors not to crowd where the Queen is. At the same time,
I am ready to abide by the existing order, if Her Majesty wishes it to be enforced.

I have the honour to submit two private letters sent by Lord Palmerston.

GLOUCESTER HOUSE, 2nd May 1851.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--It is impossible to tell you how warmly I do participate in all you must
have felt yesterday, as well as dear Albert, at everything having gone off so beautifully.
After so much anxiety and the trouble he has had, the joy must be the greater.[13]

The sight from my window was the gayest and the most gratifying to witness, and to me who loves
you so dearly as I do, made it the more delightful. The good humour of all around, the fineness
of the day, the manner you were received in both going and coming from the Exhibition, was
quite perfect. Therefore what must it have been in the inside of the building!

Mary and George came away in perfect enchantment, and every soul I have seen describes it as
the fairest sight that ever was seen and the best-conducted fête!Why, G. Bathurst told me it
far surpassed the Coronation as to magnificence, and we all agreed in rejoicing that the Foreigners
should have witnessed the affection of the People to you and your Family, and how the English
people do love and respect the Crown. As to Mary, she was in perfect enchantment, and full
of how pretty your dear little Victoria looked, and how nicely she was dressed, and so grateful
to your Mother for all her kindness to her. I should have written to you last night, but I
thought I would not plague you with a letter until to-day, as I think you must have been tired
last night with the excitement of the day. I shall ever lament the having missed such a sight,
but I comfort myself in feeling sure I could not have followed you (as I ought) when you walked
round. Therefore I was better out of the way. We drank your health at dinner and congratulation
on the complete success of Albert's plans and arrangements, and also dear little Arthur's health.
Many thanks for kind note received last night. Love to Albert. Yours,

MARY.

    [Footnote 13: The Great Exhibition in Hyde Park was opened
    with brilliant ceremony on the 1st of May.]

[Pageheading: THE GREAT EXHIBITION]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 3rd May 1851. Truly it was astonishing, a fairy scene. Many cried, and all
felt touched and impressed with devotional feelings. You will be astounded at this great work
when you see it!--the beauty of the building and the vastness of it all. I can never thank
God enough. I feel so happy, so proud. Our dear guests were much pleased and impressed. You
are right to like the dear Princess, for she is a noble-minded, warm-hearted, distinguished
person, much attached to you, and who revered dearest Louise. Oh! how I thought of her on that
great day, how kindly she would have rejoiced in our success!

