THE STORY OF MY LIFE

RECOLLECTIONS AND REFLECTIONS

BY

ELLEN TERRY

ILLUSTRATED

NEW YORK

DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & CO.

MCMIX

1908, The McClure Company

1907, 1908, The S.S. McClure Company

1907, 1908, Ellen Terry

TO

EDY

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

I. A CHILD OF THE STAGE, 1848-56
   The Charles Keans, 1856
   Training in Shakespeare, 1856-59

II. ON THE ROAD, 1859-61
    Life in a Stock Company, 1862-63
                             1864

III. ROSSETTI, BERNHARDT, IRVING, 1865-67
     My First Impressions of Henry Irving

IV. A SIX-YEAR VACATION, 1868-74

V. THE ACTRESS AND THE PLAYWRIGHT, 1874.
   Portia, 1875
   Tom Taylor and Lavender Sweep

VI. A YEAR WITH THE BANCROFTS

VII. EARLY DAYS AT THE LYCEUM

VIII. WORK AT THE LYCEUM

IX. LYCEUM PRODUCTIONS

X. LYCEUM PRODUCTIONS (continued)

XI. AMERICA: THE FIRST OF EIGHT TOURS
    What Constitutes Charm

XII. SOME LIKES AND DISLIKES

XIII. THE MACBETH PERIOD

XIV. LAST DAYS AT THE LYCEUM
     My Stage Jubilee
     Apologia
     The Death of Henry Irving
     Alfred Gilbert and others
     "Beefsteak" Guests at the Lyceum
     Bits From My Diary

INDEX

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

Ellen Terry

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Terry

Charles Kean and Ellen Terry in 1856

Ellen Terry in 1856

Ellen Terry at Sixteen

"The Sisters" (Kate and Ellen Terry)

Ellen Terry at Seventeen

George Frederick Watts, R.A.

Ellen Terry as Helen in "The Hunchback"

Henry Irving

Head of a Young Girl (Ellen Terry)

Henry Irving

Ellen Terry as Portia

Henry Irving as Matthias in "The Bells"

Henry Irving as Philip of Spain

Henry Irving as Hamlet

Lily Langtry

William Terriss as Squire Thornhill in "Olivia"

Ellen Terry as Ophelia

Ellen Terry as Beatrice

Sir Henry Irving

Irving as Louis XI

Ellen Terry as Henrietta Maria

Ellen Terry as Camma in "The Cup"

Ellen Terry as Iolanthe

Ellen Terry as Letitia Hardy in "The Belle's Stratagem"

Edwin Thomas Booth

Ellen Terry as Juliet

Two Portraits of Ellen Terry as Beatrice

Ellen Terry's Favourite Photograph as Olivia

Eleanora Duse with Lenbach's Child

Ellen Terry as Margaret in "Faust"

Ellen Terry as Ellaline in "The Amber Heart"

Miss Ellen Terry in 1883

The Bas-relief Portrait of Robert Louis Stevenson

Miss Terry and Sir Henry Irving

Sarah Holland, Ellen Terry's Dresser

Miss Rosa Corder

Miss Ellen Terry with her Fox-terriers

Miss Ellen Terry in 1898

Sir Henry Irving

Miss Ellen Terry

Ellen Terry as Lady Macbeth

Sir Henry Irving

Ellen Terry as Lucy Ashton in "Ravenswood"

Henry Irving as Cardinal Wolsey in "Henry VIII."

Ellen Terry as Nance Oldfield

Ellen Terry as Kniertje in "The Good Hope"

Ellen Terry as Imogen

Henry Irving as Becket

Sir Henry Irving

Ellen Terry as Rosamund in "Becket"

Ellen Terry as Guinevere in "King Arthur"

"Olivia"

Miss Terry's Garden at Winchelsea

Ellen Terry as Hermione in "The Winter's Tale"

INTRODUCTION

    "When I read the book, the biography famous,
    And is this then (said I) what the author calls a man's life?
    And so will some one when I am dead and gone write my life?
    (As if any man really knew aught of my life!)
    Why even I myself, I often think, know little or nothing of my real
      life.
    Only a few hints--a few diffused faint clues and indirections
    I seek ... to trace out here."

    WALT WHITMAN.

For years I have contemplated telling this story, and for years I have put off telling it.
While I have delayed, my memory has not improved, and my recollections of the past are more
hazy and fragmentary than when it first occurred to me that one day I might write them down.

My bad memory would matter less if I had some skill in writing--the practiced writer can see
possibilities in the most ordinary events--or if I had kept a systematic and conscientious
record of my life. But although I was at one time conscientious and diligent enough in keeping
a diary, I kept it for use at the moment, not for future reference. I kept it with paste-pot
and scissors as much as with a pen. My method was to cut bits out of the newspapers and stick
them into my diary day by day. Before the end of the year was reached Mr. Letts would have
been ashamed to own his diary. It had become a bursting, groaning dust-bin of information,
for the most part useless. In addition to the authority of our own early statesmen, and to that of
the eminent Englishmen to whom I have referred, I wish to cite that of my pupil and dear friend,
General Francis A. Walker, who is declared by abundant European,
as well as American authority, to be the foremost writer on money
of modern times.

He was a thorough believer in the doctrine I have stated.

He pointed out the danger, indeed the ruin, of undertaking to reestablish
silver without the consent of foreign nations.

But he declared that the happiness and, perhaps, the safety of the country rested on Bimetallism.
He said: "Indeed, every monometallist ought also to be a monoculist.

Polyphemus, the old Cyclops, would be his ideal. Unfortunately our philosophers were not in the
Garden of Eden at the time when the Creator made the mistake of endowing men with eyes in pairs.
Perhaps it would not be too much to say that there are probably few men whose eyes do not differ
from each other as to every element affecting vision by more than the degree from which gold and
silver varied from the French standard of fifteen and a half to one for whole decades." The German
Imperial Parliament passed a resolution, in June, 1895, in favor
of Bimetallism, and the Prussian Parliament passed a resolution favoring
an international bimetallic convention, provided England joined it,
May 22, 1895.

The great increase in the gold product of the world, and the constant diminution in the value of silver,
have put an end to the danger of the movement for the free coinage of silver, and made the question
purely academic or theoretic, at any rate for a good while to come.

The same causes have diminished the desire for a bimetallic standard, and make the difficulty
of establishing a parity between silver and gold, for the present, almost insuperable. So the
question which excited so much public feeling throughout the world
for nearly a quarter of a century, and endangered not only the ascendancy
of the Republican Party, but the financial strength of the United
States, has become almost wholly one of theory and ancient history.

After leaving Paris I spent a few delightful weeks at Innsbruck in Austria, and Reichenhall in
Germany, both near the frontier between those two countries. The wonderful scenery and the curious
architecture and antiquity of those towns transport one back to the Middle Ages. But I suppose
they are too well known now, to our many travellers, to make it worth while to describe them.
I went to those places for the health of a lady nearly allied to
my household.

She was under the care of Baron Liebig, one of the most famous physicians in Germany, the son of the great
chemist. I got quite well acquainted with him. He was a very interesting man. He had a peculiar method
of dealing with the diseases of the throat and lungs like those under
which my sister-in-law suffered.

He had several large oval apartments, air-tight, with an inner wall made of porcelain, like that used
for an ordinary vase or pitcher. From these he excluded all the air of the atmosphere, and supplied
its place with an artificial air made for the purpose. The patients
were put in there, remaining an hour and three quarters or two hours
each day-- I do not know but some of them for a longer time.

Then they were directed to take long walks, increasing them in length day by day, a considerable
part of the walk being up a steep hill or mountain. I believe his method was of very great value
to the patient who was in my company.

The Baron thought he could effect a complete cure if she could stay with him several months. But that
was impossible.

CHAPTER XXIII VISITS TO ENGLAND 1899 I visited England again in 1899.
I did not go to the Continent or Scotland.

My wife consulted a very eminent London physician for an infirmity of
the heart. He told her to go to the Isle of Wight; remain there a
few weeks; then to go to Boscombe; stay a few weeks there; then to
Malvern Hills, and thence to a high place in Yorkshire, which, I believe,
is nearly, if not quite, the highest inhabited spot in England.

This treatment was eminently advantageous. But to comply with the doctor's
direction took all the time we had at our command before going home.
We had a charming and delightful time in the Isle of Wight.

We stayed at a queer little Inn, known as the "Crab and Lobster," kept
by Miss Cass, with the aid of her sister and niece.

We made excursions about the island. I saw two graves side by side
which had a good deal of romance about them.

One was the grave of a woman.

The stone said that she had died at the age of one hundred and seven.

By its side was the grave of her husband, to whom she had been married at the age of eighteen,
and who had died just after the marriage. So she had been a widow eighty-nine years, and then
the couple, separated in their early youth, had come together again in the grave. We found a singular
instance of what Americans think so astonishing in England, the want
of knowledge by the people of the locality with which they were familiar
in life, of persons whose names have a world-wide reputation.

In a churchyard at Bonchurch, about a mile from our Inn at Ventnor, is the grave of John
Stirling-- the friend of Emerson-- of whom Carlyle wrote a memoir.

Sterling is the author of some beautiful hymns and other poems, including what I think is the most
splendid and spirited ballad in English literature, "Alfred the Harper." Yet the sexton who exhibited
the church and the churchyard did not seem to know anything about
him, and the booksellers near by never had heard of him.

The sexton showed, with great pride, the grave of Isaac Williams, author of the "Shadow of the Cross" and
some other rather tame religious poetry. He was a devout and good man, and seemed to be a
feeble imitator of Keble. I dare say, the sexton first heard of Sterling and saw his grave
when we showed it to him. The scenery about Boscombe and the matchless views of the Channel are a
perpetual delight, especially the sight, on a clear day, of the Needles.

We did not find it necessary to obey the doctor's advice to go to Yorkshire. After leaving Boscombe, I
spent the rest of my vacation at Malvern Hills, some eight or nine miles north of Worcester,
and some twenty miles from Gloucester.

The chief delight of that summer-- a delight that dwells freshly in my memory to-day, and which will never
be forgotten while my memory endures-- was a journey through the Forest of Dean, in a carriage, in
company with my friend-- alas, that I must say my late friend!-- John Bellows, of Gloucester. He was, I
suppose, of all men alive, best qualified to be a companion and teacher of such a journey. He
has written and published for the American Antiquarian Society an account of our journey-- a most
delightful essay, which I insert in the appendix. He tells the story much better than I could tell
it. My readers will do well to read it, even if they skip some chapters
of this book for the purpose.

I am proud and happy in this way to associate my name with that of
this most admirable gentleman.

I visited
Gloucester. I found the houses still standing where my ancestors dwelt, and the old tomb in the Church
of St. Mary de Crypt, with the word Hoare cut in the pavement in
the chancel.

My ancestors were Puritans. They took an active part in the resistance to Charles I., and many traces
are preserved of their activity in the civic annals of Gloucester. Two
of my name were Sheriffs in those days.

There were two other Sheriffs whose wives were sisters of my direct ancestors. Charles Hoar, my
direct ancestor, married one of the Clifford family, the descendant of the brother of Fair
Rosamond, and their arms are found on a tomb, and also on a window in the old church at Frampton-on-Severn,
eight miles from Gloucester, where the Cliffords are buried. The spot where fair Rosamond was born,
still, I believe, belongs to the Clifford family.

I got such material as I could for studying the history of the military operations which preceded
the siege and capture of Worcester and the escape of Charles II. Several of the old houses where
he was concealed are shown, as also one in Worcester from which he made his escape out of the
window when Worcester was stormed, just as Cromwell's soldiers were entering at the door. Shakespeare
used to pass through Gloucester on his way to London.

Some of his celebrated scenes are in Gloucestershire. The tradition is that Shakespeare's company
acted in the yard of the New Inn, at Gloucester, an ancient hostelry
still standing, a few rods only from the Raven Tavern, which belonged
to my ancestors, and is mentioned in one of their wills still extant.

I
have no doubt my kindred of that time saw Shakespeare, and saw him act, unless they had already learned
the Puritanism which came to them, if not before, in a later generation. I purchased, some years
ago, some twenty ancient Gloucestershire deeds, of various dates, but all between 1100 and 1400.
One of them was witnessed by John le Hore. It was of lands at Wotton-under-Edge in Gloucestershire.
I have in my possession a will of Thomas Hore of Bristol, dated 1466, in which he mentions his
wife Joanna, and his daughters Joanna and Margery, and his sons Thomas and John. These names--
Thomas, John, Joanna and Margery-- are the names of members of the
family who dwelt in the city of Gloucester in later generations.

So I have little doubt that Thomas was of the same race, although there is a link in the pedigree,
between his death and 1560 or 1570 which I cannot supply. This Thomas bequeaths land at Wotton-under-Edge,
so I conjecture that John also was of the same race. A large old black oak chest bound with iron,
bequeathed by Thomas to Bristol in 1466, is still in the possession
of the city.

I was very much gratified that the people of the old City of Gloucester
were glad to recognize the tie of kindred which I, myself, feel so
strongly.

I received a handsome box, containing a beautifully bound copy of an account of the City from the
Traders'Association of the City of Gloucester. This account of the matter appears in the Echo,
a local paper of July 4, 1899. GLOUCESTER CITY. GLOUCESTER TRADERS'ASSOCIATION. INTERESTING PRESENTATION
On Monday evening a largely attended public meeting was held in the Guildhall under the auspices
of the Gloucester Traders'Association for the purpose of hearing
addresses on "The municipal electricity supply."

Mr.
D. Jones (president) occupied the chair, and there were also present on the platform the Mayor
(Mr. H. R. J. Braine), City High Sheriff (Mr. A. V. Hatton), Councillors Holborook, Poole and several
members of the association.

The Chairman said that in his position as president of the association it was his pleasurable
duty to present a copy of their guide to Mr. G. F. Hoar, the distinguished member of the United States Government,
who had always taken a great interest in their historic City.--
The presentation consisted of a handsomely carved box made by Messrs.
Matthews and Co. from pieces of historic English oak supplied by Mr.
H. Y. J. Taylor.

On the outside of the cover are engraved the City arms, and a brass plate explaining the presentation.
A beautifully printed copy of the well-known guide, bound in red morocco, has been placed within, and on the
inside of the cover there is the following illuminated address: "To
the Hon. G. F. Hoar, of Worcester, Mass., Senator of the United States
of America.

Sir,-- The members of the Traders'Association, Gloucester, England, ask your acceptance of a bound
copy of their guide to this ancient and historic City, together with
this box made from part of a rafter taken from the room in which Bishop
Hooper was lodged the night before his burning, and from oak formerly
in old All Saints'Church, as souvenirs of the regard which the association
entertains for you and its recognition of your ardent affection for
the City of Gloucester, the honored place of the nativity of the progenitor
of your family, Charles Hoar, who was elder Sheriff in 1634; and may
these sincere expressions also be typical of the sterling friendship
existing between Great Britain and America."

"Senator Hoar had been unable to attend the meeting, and the presentation was entrusted to the
American Vice-Consul, Mr. E. H. Palin, to forward to him. Remarking on the presentation, the
Mayor expressed his regret that Mr. Hoar had been unable to accept the high and important position
of American Ambassador which had been offered to him. Addresses
on the installation of the electric light were then given by Mr.
Hammond, M. I. C. E., and Mr. Spencer Hawes."

I was invited by the Corporation of the City to visit them in the
fall and receive the freedom of the City, which was to be bestowed
at the same time on Sir Michael Hicks-Beach.

But I had arranged to return to the United States before the time fixed for the ceremonial. So I
was deprived of that great pleasure and honor. I had a great longing to hear the nightingale.
I find in an old memorandum that I heard the nightingale in Warwickshire in 1860, somewhere about
the twentieth of May. But the occurrence, and the song of the bird,
have wholly faded from my memory. When I was abroad in 1892 and'96 I
hoped to hear the song.

But I was too late. Mrs. Warre, wife of the Rector of Bemerton, George Herbert's Parsonage, told
me that the nightingales were abundant in her own garden close to the Avon, but that they did not
sing after the beginning of the nesting session which, according to a note to White's "History of
Selborne," lasts from the beginning of May to the early part of June. Waller says: Thus the wise
nightingale that leaves her home, Pursuing constantly the cheerful
spring, To foreign groves does her old music bring.

There are some counties in England where the bird is not found. It is abundant in Warwickshire, Gloucester
and the Isle of Wight. It is not found in Scotland, Derbyshire or Yorkshire or Devon or Cornwall.
Attempts to introduce it in those places have failed.

The reason is said to be that its insect food does not exist there. I utterly failed to hear the
nightingale, although I was very close upon his track. On the night
of the fifth of June at Freshwater, close to Tennyson's home, we were
taken by a driver, between eleven and twelve at night, to two copses
in one of which he said he had heard the nightingale the night before; and
at the other they had been heard by somebody, from whom he got the information,
within a very few days. But the silence was unbroken, notwithstanding
our patience and the standing reward I had offered to anybody who would
find one that I could hear. Two different nights shortly afterward,
I was driven out several miles past groves where the bird was said
to be heard frequently. Nothing came of it. May 29, at Gloucester, I
rode with my friend, H. Y. J. Taylor, Esq., an accomplished antiquary,
out into the country.

We passed a hillside where he said he had heard the nightingale about eleven o'clock in the daytime
the week before. Shakespeare says: The nightingale, if she should sing by day, When every goose is
cackling, would be No better a musician than the wren. But the nightingale does sometimes sing by day. Mr.
Taylor says that on the morning he spoke of the whole field seemed to be full of singing birds.
There were larks and finches and linnets and thrushes, and I think
other birds whose name I do not remember.

But when the nightingale set up his song every other bird stopped.
They seemed as much spellbound by the singing as he was, and Philomel
had the field to himself till the song was over.

It was as if Jenny Lind had come into a country church when the rustic choir of boys and girls
were performing.

The nightingale will sometimes sing out of season if his mate be
killed, or if the nest with the eggs therein be destroyed.

He is not a shy bird. He comes out into the highway and will fly in and out of the hedges, sometimes
following a traveller. And the note of one bird will, in the singing season, provoke the others,
so that a dozen or twenty will sometimes be heard rivalling one another at night, making it impossible
for the occupants of the farmhouses to sleep. The superstition is well known that if a new-married
man hear the cuckoo before he hear the nightingale in the spring, his married peace will be invaded
by some stranger within the year. But if the nightingale be heard
first he will be happy in his love. It is said that the young married
swains in the country take great pains to hear the nightingale first.

A very beautiful young lady called upon us in London just as we were
departing for the Isle of Wight.

I told her of my great longing to hear the nightingale, and that I hoped to get a chance. She
said that she had just come from one of her husband's country estates;
that she had not seen a nightingale or heard one this year, although
they were very abundant there.

She said she had seen a cuckoo, which came about the same time. I suppose she observed a look of
amusement on my countenance, for she added quick as lightning, "But he didn't speak." I made this
year a delightful visit to Cambridge University. I was the guest of Dr. Butler, the Master of Trinity,
and his accomplished wife, who had, before her marriage, beaten the
young men of Cambridge in all of the examinations.

Dr. Butler spoke very kindly of William Everett, with whom he had been contemporary at Cambridge.
He told me that Edward Everett, when he received his degree at Oxford, was treated with great incivility
by the throng of undergraduates, not because he was an American, but because he was a Unitarian.
I told this story afterwards to Mr. Charles Francis Adams. He confirmed it, and said that his
father had refused the degree because he did not wish to expose himself to a like incivility.
I dined in the old hall of Trinity, and met many very eminent scholars. I saw across the room Mr. Myers,
the author of the delightful essays, but did not have an opportunity
to speak to him.

I was introduced, among other gentlemen, to Aldus Wright, Vice or Deputy Master, eminent for his varied
scholarship, and to Mr. Frazer, who had just published his admirable edition of Pausanias. A great
many years ago I heard a story from Richard H. Dana, illustrating
the cautious and conservative fashions of Englishmen.

He told me that when the Judges went to Cambridge for the Assizes they always lodged in the
House of the Master of Trinity, which was a royal foundation, the
claim being, that as they represented the King, they lodged there
as of right.

On the other hand the College claims that they are there as the guests of the College, and indebted
to its hospitality solely for their lodging. When the Judges approach Cambridge, the Master of
Trinity goes out to meet them, and expresses the hope that they will
make their home at the College during their stay; to which the Judges
reply that "They are coming."

The Head of the College conducts them to the door.

When it is reached, each party bows and invites the other to go in. They
go in, and the Judges stay until the Assize is over.

This ceremony has gone on for four hundred years, and it never yet has been settled whether the
Judges have a right in the Master's house, or only are there as guests
and by courtesy.

I suppose that in the United States both sides would fight that question until it was settled
somehow.

Each would say: "I am very willing to have the other there. But I want to know whether he has any right
there." I asked about the truth of this story. Dr. Butler said it was true and seemed, if I understood
him aright, to think the Judges'claim was a good one. Mr. Wright, the Deputy Master, to whom I also put
the question, spoke of it with rather less respect.

I have alluded to the beauty of Charles Kean's diction. His voice was also of a wonderful quality--soft
and low, yet distinct and clear as a bell. When he played Richard II. the magical charm of
this organ was alone enough to keep the house spellbound. His vivid personality made a strong
impression on me. Yet others only remember that he called his wife "Delly," though she was
Nelly, and always spoke as if he had a cold in his head. How strange! If I did not understand
what suggested impressions so different from my own, they would make me more indignant.

What he owed to Mrs. Kean, he would have been the first to confess. In many ways she was the
leading spirit in the theater; at the least, a joint ruler, not a queen-consort. During the
rehearsals Mr. Kean used to sit in the stalls with a loud-voiced dinner-bell by his side, and
when anything went wrong on the stage, he would ring it ferociously, and everything would come
to a stop, until Mrs. Kean, who always sat on the stage, had set right what was wrong. She
was more formidable than beautiful to look at, but her wonderful fire and genius were none
the less impressive because she wore a white handkerchief round her head and had a very beaky
nose! How I admired and loved and feared her! Later on the fear was replaced by gratitude,
for no woman ever gave herself more trouble to train a young actress than did Mrs. Kean. The
love and admiration, I am glad to say, remained and grew. It is rare that it falls to the lot
of anyone to have such an accomplished teacher. Her patience and industry were splendid.

It was Mrs. Kean who chose me out of five or six other children to play my first part. We were
all tried in it, and when we had finished, she said the same thing to us all: "That's very
nice! Thank you, my dear. That will do."

We none of us knew at the time which of us had pleased her most.

At this time we were living in the upper part of a house in the Gower Street region. That first
home in London I remember chiefly by its fine brass knocker, which mother kept beautifully
bright, and by its being the place to which I was sent my first part! Bound in green American
cloth, it looked to me more marvelous than the most priceless book has ever looked since! I
was so proud and pleased and delighted that I danced a hornpipe for joy!

Why was I chosen, and not one of the other children, for the part of Mamilius? some one may
ask. It was not mere luck, I think. Perhaps I was a born actress, but that would have served
me little if I had not been able to speak! It must be remembered that both my sister Kate and
I had been trained almost from our birth for the stage, and particularly in the important branch
of clear articulation. Father, as I have already said, was a very charming elocutionist, and
my mother read Shakespeare beautifully. They were both very fond of us and saw our faults with
eyes of love, though they were unsparing in their corrections. In these early days they had
need of all their patience, for I was a most troublesome, wayward pupil. However, "the labor
we delight in physics pain," and I hope, too, that my more staid sister made it up to them!

The rehearsals for "A Winter's Tale" were a lesson in fortitude. They taught me once and for
all that an actress's life (even when the actress is only eight) is not all beer and skittles,
or cakes and ale, or fame and glory. I was cast for the part of Mamilius in the way I have
described, and my heart swelled with pride when I was told what I had to do, when I realized
that I had a real Shakespeare part--a possession that father had taught me to consider the
pride of life!

But many weary hours were to pass before the first night. If a company has to rehearse four
hours a day now, it is considered a great hardship, and players must lunch and dine like other
folk. But this was not Kean's way! Rehearsals lasted all day, Sundays included, and when there
was no play running at night, until four or five the next morning! I don't think any actor
in those days dreamed of luncheon. (Tennyson, by the way, told me to say "luncheon"--not "lunch.")
How my poor little legs used to ache! Sometimes I could hardly keep my eyes open when I was
on the stage, and often when my scene was over, I used to creep into the greenroom and forget
my troubles and my art (if you can talk of art in connection with a child of eight) in a delicious
sleep.

At the dress-rehearsals I did not want to sleep. All the members of the company were allowed
to sit and watch the scenes in which they were not concerned, from the back of the dress-circle.
This, by the way, is an excellent plan, and in theaters where it is followed the young actress
has reason to be grateful. In these days of greater publicity when the press attend rehearsals,
there may be strong reasons against the company being "in front," but the perfect loyalty of
all concerned would dispose of these reasons. Now, for the first time, the beginner is able
to see the effect of the weeks of thought and labor which have been given to the production.
She can watch from the front the fulfillment of what she has only seen as intention and promise
during the other rehearsals. But I am afraid that beginners now are not so keen as they used
to be. The first wicked thing I did in a theater sprang from excess of keenness. I borrowed
a knife from a carpenter and made a slit in the canvas to watch Mrs. Kean as Hermione!

Devoted to her art, conscientious to a degree in mastering the spirit and details of her part,
Mrs. Kean also possessed the personality and force to chain the attention and indelibly imprint
her rendering of a part on the imagination. When I think of the costume in which she played
Hermione, it seems marvelous to me that she could have produced the impression that she did.
This seems to contradict what I have said about the magnificence of the production. But not
at all! The designs of the dresses were purely classic; but then, as now, actors and actresses
seemed unable to keep their own period and their own individuality out of the clothes directly
they got them on their backs. In some cases the original design was quite swamped. No matter
what the character that Mrs. Kean was assuming, she always used to wear her hair drawn flat
over her forehead and twisted tight round her ears in a kind of circular sweep--such as the
old writing-masters used to make when they attempted an extra grand flourish. And then the
amount of petticoats she wore! Even as Hermione she was always bunched out by layer upon layer
of petticoats, in defiance of the fact that classical parts should not be dressed in a superfluity
of raiment. But if the petticoats were full of starch, the voice was full of pathos--and the
dignity, simplicity, and womanliness of Mrs. Charles Kean's Hermione could not have been marred
by a far more grotesque costume.

There is something, I suppose, in a woman's nature which always makes her remember how she
was dressed at any specially eventful moment of her life, and I can see myself, as though it
were yesterday, in the little red-and-silver dress I wore as Mamilius. Mrs. Grieve, the dresser--"Peter
Grieve-us," as we children called her--had pulled me into my very pink tights (they were by
no means tight but very baggy, according to the pictures of me), and my mother had arranged
my hair in sausage curls on each side of my head in even more perfect order and regularity
than usual. Besides my clothes, I had a beautiful "property" to be proud of. This was a go-cart,
which had been made in the theater by Mr. Bradshaw, and was an exact copy of a child's toy
as depicted on a Greek vase. It was my duty to drag this little cart about the stage, and on
the first night, when Mr. Kean as Leontes told me to "go play," I obeyed his instructions with
such vigor that I tripped over the handle and came down on my back! A titter ran through the
house, and I felt that my career as an actress was ruined forever. Even now I remember how
bitterly I wept, and how deeply humiliated I felt. But the little incident, so mortifying to
me, did not spoil my first appearance altogether. The Times of May 1, 1856, was kind enough
to call me "vivacious and precocious," and "a worthy relative of my sister Kate," and my parents
were pleased (although they would not show it too much), and Mrs. Kean gave me a pat on the
back. Father and Kate were both in the cast, too, I ought to have said, and the Queen, Prince
Albert, and the Princess Royal were all in a box on the first night.

To act for the first time in Shakespeare, in a theater where my sister had already done something
for our name, and before royalty, was surely a good beginning.

From April 28, 1856, I played Mamilius every night for one hundred and two nights. I was never
ill, and my understudy, Clara Denvil, a very handsome, dark child with flaming eyes, though
quite ready and longing to play my part, never had the chance.

I had now taken the first step, but I had taken it without any notion of what I was doing.
I was innocent of all art, and while I loved the actual doing of my part, I hated the labor
that led up to it. But the time was soon to come when I was to be fired by a passion for work.
Meanwhile I was unconsciously learning a number of lessons which were to be most useful to
me in my subsequent career.

TRAINING IN SHAKESPEARE

1856-1859

From April 1856 until 1859 I acted constantly at the Princess's Theater with the Keans, spending
the summer holidays in acting at Ryde. My whole life was the theater, and naturally all my
early memories are connected with it. At breakfast father would begin the day's "coaching."
Often I had to lay down my fork and say my lines. He would conduct these extra rehearsals anywhere--in
the street, the 'bus--we were never safe! I remember vividly going into a chemist's shop and
being stood upon a stool to say my part to the chemist! Such leisure as I had from my profession
was spent in "minding" the younger children--an occupation in which I delighted. They all had
very pretty hair, and I used to wash it and comb it out until it looked as fine and bright
as floss silk.

It is argued now that stage life is bad for a young child, and children are not allowed by
law to go on the stage until they are ten years old--quite a mature age in my young days! I
cannot discuss the whole question here, and must content myself with saying that during my
three years at the Princess's I was a very strong, happy, and healthy child. I was never out
of the bill except during the run of "A Midsummer Night's Dream," when, through an unfortunate
accident, I broke my toe. I was playing Puck, my second part on any stage, and had come up
through a trap at the end of the last act to give the final speech. My sister Kate was playing
Titania that night as understudy to Carlotta Leclercq. Up I came--but not quite up, for the
man shut the trapdoor too soon and caught my toe. I screamed. Kate rushed to me and banged
her foot on the stage, but the man only closed the trap tighter, mistaking the signal.

"Oh, Katie! Katie!" I cried. "Oh, Nelly! Nelly!" said poor Kate helplessly. Then Mrs. Kean
came rushing on and made them open the trap and release my poor foot.

"Finish the play, dear," she whispered excitedly, "and I'll double your salary!" There was
Kate holding me up on one side and Mrs. Kean on the other. Well, I did finish the play in a
fashion. The text ran something like this--

    "If we shadows have offended (Oh, Katie, Katie!)
    Think but this, and all is mended, (Oh, my toe!)
    That you have but slumbered here,
    While these visions did appear. (I can't, I can't!)
    And this weak and idle theme,
    No more yielding but a dream, (Oh, dear! oh, dear!)
    Gentles, do not reprehend; (A big sob)
    If you pardon, we will mend. (Oh, Mrs. Kean!)"

How I got through it, I don't know! But my salary was doubled--it had been fifteen shillings,
and it was raised to thirty--and Mr. Skey, President of Bartholomew's Hospital, who chanced
to be in a stall that very evening, came round behind the scenes and put my toe right. He remained
my friend for life.

I was not chosen for Puck because I had played Mamilius with some credit. The same examination
was gone through, and again I came out first. During the rehearsals Mrs. Kean taught me to
draw my breath in through my nose and begin a laugh--a very valuable accomplishment! She was
also indefatigable in her lessons in clear enunciation, and I can hear her now lecturing the
ladies of the company on their vowels. "A, E, I, O, U, my dear," she used to say, "are five
distinct vowels, so don't mix them all up together, as if you were making a pudding. If you
want to say, 'I am going on the river,' say it plainly and don't tell us you are going on the
'rivah!' You must say her, not har; it's God, not Gud: remonstrance, not remunstrance," and
so forth. No one ever had a sharper tongue or a kinder heart than Mrs. Kean. Beginning with
her, I have always loved women with a somewhat hard manner! I have never believed in their
hardness, and have proved them tender and generous in the extreme.

Actor-managers are very proud of their long runs nowadays, but in Shakespeare, at any rate,
they do not often eclipse Charles Kean's two hundred and fifty nights of "A Midsummer Night's
Dream" at the Princess's. It was certainly a very fascinating production, and many of the effects
were beautiful. I, by the way, had my share in marring one of these during the run. When Puck
was told to put a girdle round the earth in forty minutes, I had to fly off the stage as swiftly
as I could, and a dummy Puck was whirled through the air from the point where I disappeared.
One night the dummy, while in full flying action, fell on the stage, whereupon, in great concern
for its safety, I ran on, picked it up in my arms, and ran off with it amid roars of laughter!
Neither of the Keans was acting in this production, but there was some one in authority to
give me a sound cuff. Yet I had such excellent intentions. 'Tis ever thus!

I reveled in Puck and his impish pranks, and unconsciously realized that it was a part in which
the imagination could run riot. I believe I played it well, but I did not look well, and I
must contradict emphatically the kind assumption that I must have been a "delightful little
fairy." As Mamilius I was really a sweet little thing, but while I was playing Puck I grew
very gawky--not to say ugly! My hair had been cut short, and my red cheeks stuck out too much.
I was a sight!

The parts we play influence our characters to some extent, and Puck made me a bit of a romp.
I grew vain and rather "cocky," and it was just as well that during the rehearsals for the
Christmas pantomime in 1857 I was tried for the part of the Fairy Dragonetta and rejected.
I believe that my failure was principally due to the fact that Nature had not given me flashing
eyes and raven hair--without which, as everyone knows, no bad fairy can hold up her head and
respect herself. But at the time I felt distinctly rebuffed, and only the extreme beauty of
my dress as the maudlin "good fairy" Goldenstar consoled me. Milly Smith (afterwards Mrs. Thorn)
was Dragonetta, and one of her speeches ran like this:

    "Ungrateful Simple Simon (darting forward) You thought no doubt to
      spite me!
    That to this Royal Christening you did not invite me!
    BUT--(Mrs. Kean: "You must plaster that 'but' on the white wall
    at the back of the gallery.")--
    But on this puling brat revenged I'll be!
    My fiery dragon there shall have her broiled for tea!"

At Ryde during the previous summer my father had taken the theater, and Kate and I played in
several farces which the Keeleys and the great comedian Robson had made famous in London. My
performances as Waddilove and Jacob Earwig had provoked some one to describe me as "a perfect
little heap of talent!" To fit my Goldenstar, I must borrow that phrase and describe myself
as a perfect little heap of vanity.

It was that dress! It was a long dress, though I was still a baby, and it was as pink and gold
as it was trailing. I used to think I looked beautiful in it. I wore a trembling star on my
forehead, too, which was enough to upset any girl!

One of the most wearisome, yet essential details of my education is connected with my first
long dress. It introduces, too, Mr. Oscar Byrn, the dancing-master and director of crowds at
the Princess's. One of his lessons was in the art of walking with a flannel blanket pinned
on in front and trailing six inches on the floor. My success in carrying out this maneuver
with dignity won high praise from Mr. Byrn. The other children used to kick at the blanket
and progress in jumps like young kangaroos, but somehow I never had any difficulty in moving
gracefully. No wonder then that I impressed Mr. Byrn, who had a theory that "an actress was
no actress unless she learned to dance early." Whenever he was not actually putting me through
my paces, I was busy watching him teach the others. There was the minuet, to which he used
to attach great importance, and there was "walking the plank." Up and down one of the long
planks, extending the length of the stage, we had to walk first slowly and then quicker and
quicker until we were able at a considerable pace to walk the whole length of it without deviating
an inch from the straight line. This exercise, Mr. Byrn used to say, and quite truly, I think,
taught us uprightness of carriage and certainty of step.

"Eyes right! Chest out! Chin tucked in!" I can hear the dear old man shouting at us as if it
were yesterday; and I have learned to see of what value all his drilling was, not only to deportment,
but to clear utterance. It would not be a bad thing if there were more "old fops" like Oscar
Byrn in the theaters of to-day. That old-fashioned art of "deportment" is sadly neglected.

The pantomime in which I was the fairy Goldenstar was very frequently preceded by "A Midsummer
Night's Dream," and the two parts on one night must have been fairly heavy work for a child,
but I delighted in it.

In the same year (1858) I played Karl in "Faust and Marguerite," a jolly little part with plenty
of points in it, but not nearly as good a part as Puck. Progress on the stage is often crab-like,
and little parts, big parts, and no parts at all must be accepted as "all in the day's work."
In these days I was cast for many a "dumb" part. I walked on in "The Merchant of Venice" carrying
a basket of doves; in "Richard II." I climbed up a pole in the street scene; in "Henry VIII."
I was "top angel" in the vision, and I remember that the heat of the gas at that dizzy height
made me sick at the dress-rehearsal! I was a little boy "cheering" in several other productions.
In "King Lear" my sister Kate played Cordelia. She was only fourteen, and the youngest Cordelia
on record. Years after I played it at the Lyceum when I was over forty!

The production of "Henry VIII." at the Princess's was one of Charles Kean's best efforts. I
always refrain from belittling the present at the expense of the past, but there were efforts
here which I have never seen surpassed, and about this my memory is not at all dim. At this
time I seem to have been always at the side watching the acting. Mrs. Kean's Katherine of Aragon
was splendid, and Charles Kean's Wolsey, his best part after, perhaps, his Richard II. Still,
the lady who used to stand ready with a tear-bottle to catch his tears as he came off after
his last scene rather overdid her admiration. My mental criticism at the time was "What rubbish!" But
it was very simple. So far as it applied to the Southern whites who had been in rebellion
it consisted only of complete amnesty and full restoration to political rights. No man was
ever punished for taking part in the rebellion after he laid down
his arms.

There is no other instance of such magnanimity in history. The War left behind it little bitterness
in the hearts of the conquerors. All they demanded of the conquered was submission in good faith to
the law of the land and the will of the people as it might be constitutionally
declared.

Their policy toward the colored people was simply the application to them of the principles applied
to the whites, as set forth in the Declaration of Independence and in the Constitution of nearly
every State in the Union. There was to be no distinction in political rights by reason of color
or race. The States were left to regulate such qualifications as residence, character, intelligence,
education and property as they saw fit, only subject to the condition that they were to apply
to all alike.

It was the purpose of the dominant party to leave the control of the election of national officers,
as it had been left from the beginning, in the hands of the local
or State authorities.

     The power was claimed, indeed it is clearly given by the Constitution,
     as was asserted in the debates in the Convention that framed it, to
     conduct those elections under National authority, if it should be
     found by experience to be necessary. But in fact there was at no time
     any attempt to go further with National election laws than to provide
     for punishment of fraudulent or violent interference with elections
or for a sufficient provision to ascertain that they were properly
conducted, or to protect them against violence or fraud.

Beside this it was the desire of many Republican leaders, especially of Mr. Sumner and General
Grant, that there should be a provision at the National charge for the education of all the citizens
in the Southern States, black and white, so far as the States were unable or unwilling to afford
it, such as had been provided for in the States of the North for all their citizens. It was never
contemplated by them to give the right to vote to a large number of illiterate citizens, without
ample provision for their education at the public charge.

General Grant accompanied his official announcement to Congress of the adoption of the Fifteenth
Amendment with an earnest recommendation of such a provision. Earnest efforts were made to
accomplish this result by liberal grants from the National treasury. Many liberal and patriotic
Southern Democrats supported it. But it was defeated by the timidity, or mistaken notions of
economy, of Northern statesmen.

In my opinion this defeat accounts for the failure of the policy of reconstruction so far as
it has failed. I do not believe that self-government with universal suffrage could be maintained
long in any Northern State, or in any country in the world, without
ample provision for public education.

It
has been claimed with great sincerity and not without plausible reason that a great hardship and
wrong was inflicted by the victorious North on their fellow citizens when the political power
in their States was given over to their former slaves. This consideration had great force
in the minds of many influential Republicans in the North.

Governor Andrew of Massachusetts, Governor Morton of Indiana, afterward Senator, men whose influence
was probably unsurpassed by any other two men in the country, save Grant and Sumner alone, were of
that way of thinking. They thought that our true policy was to let the men who had led their States
into the Rebellion take the responsibility of restoring them to their
old relations.

It is not unlikely that the strength of the Republican Party would have been seriously impaired,
perhaps overthrown, by the division of sentiment on this subject. But the white Democrats in
the South were blind to their own interest. President Johnson permitted them in several States
to take into their hands again the power of government.

They proceeded to pass laws which if carried out would have had the effect of reducing the negro
once more to a condition of practical slavery. Men were to be sold for the crime of being out
of work. Their old masters were to have the preference in the purchase. So the whole Republican
Party of the North came to be united in the belief that there could be no security for the liberty
of the freedman without the ballot.

It is said that this reconstruction policy has been a failure.

Undoubtedly it has not gained all that was hoped for it by its advocates. But looking back now I
do not believe that any other policy would have done as well as that has done, although a large
part of what was designed by the Republican leaders of the period of reconstruction never was
accomplished.

A complete system of education at the National charge was an essential element of the reconstruction
policy. It was earnestly advocated by Sumner and by Grant and by Edmunds and by Evarts. But
there were other Republicans of great influence who resisted it from
the beginning.

Among these was Senator Eugene Hale of Maine, a very accomplished Senator, an able debater and
a man of large influence with his colleagues. His public life has been one of great distinction
and usefulness. While an earnest partisan he has given an example of independence of action on
several notable occasions. But he always seemed to be possessed by what seems to prevail among
the Republicans of Maine to a great extent, dislike for what is called sentimental politics.
Mr. Hale always seemed to think that the chief function of Congress
was to provide for an honest, economical, wise and at the same time
liberal public expenditure, to keep in the old paths and leave other
matters alone.

He dislikes new doctrines and new policies. He is specially adverse to anything like legal restraint.
He once in my hearing used a very felicitous phrase, full of wisdom, "Government by good nature."
John Sherman, who had originally been an earnest advocate of a liberal National expenditure
for education, joined the ranks of its opponents, putting his opposition largely on the ground
that he was unwilling to trust the Southern states with the expenditure of large sums of money.
He feared that the money would not be fairly expended, as between the two races, and that it
would be made a large corruption fund for political purposes.

So this most essential part of the reconstruction policy of Sumner and Grant never took effect.
Mr. Sumner deemed this matter vital to success. He told me about a week before his death that
when the resolution declaring the provision for public education at the National charge an essential
part of the reconstruction policy, was defeated in the Senate by a tie vote, he was so overcome
by his feelings that he burst into tears and left the Senate Chamber.

Another part of the Republican plan for reconstruction was never
accomplished.

That was the securing of a fair vote and a fair ascertainment of the result in National elections
by National power.

Some partial and imperfect attempts were made to put in force laws intended to accomplish this
result. They never went farther than enactments designed to maintain order at the polls, to secure
the voter from actual violence, and to provide for such scrutiny as to make it clear that the
vote was duly counted and properly returned, with a right of appeal to the Courts of the United
States in case of a contest, the decision of the Court to be subject
to the final authority of the House of Representatives.

These laws, although they had the support of eminent and zealous Democrats and although they
were as much needed and had as much application to the Northern cities as to the Southern States,
were the object of bitter denunciation from the beginning. Good men in the North listened with
incredulity to the narrative of well established facts of cruelty and murder and fraud. These
stories were indignantly denied at the time, although they are not only confessed, but vauntingly
and triumphantly affirmed now.

The whole country seems to be made uneasy when the old practice to which it had been accustomed
everywhere of having offences tried by a jury taken by lot from the
people of the neighborhood, and the result of election ascertained
by officers selected from the bystanders at the polls, is departed
from.

Besides, no strictness of laws which provide only for the proceedings at the elections will
secure their freedom if it be possible to intimidate the voters, especially men like the colored
voters at the South, from attending the elections, by threats, outrages and actual violence at
their homes. Against these the election laws could not guard. Congress attempted some laws to
secure the Southern Republicans against such crimes under the authority conferred by the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution. But the Supreme Court held that these laws were unconstitutional,
it not appearing that the States had by any affirmative action denied protection against such
offences to any class of their citizens by reason of race, color, or previous condition. It
was idle to expect Southern jurors, or State officers to enforce the law against such crimes in
the condition of sentiment existing there.

Further, the people of the North would not maintain the Republican Party in power forever on
this one issue alone. They were interested in other things. They could not be expected, year
after year, election after election, and perhaps generation after generation, to hold together
by reason of this one question, differing on other things. So whenever the Democratic Party
should come into power it was apparent that all the vigor would be
taken out of the election laws.

If there be not power to repeal them the House of Representatives
can always refuse to make the appropriation for enforcing them.

So it became clear to my mind, and to the minds of many other Republicans,
that it was better to leave this matter to the returning and growing
sense of justice of the people of the South than to have laws on this
subject passed in one Administration, only to be repealed in another.

A policy to be effective must be permanent. I accordingly announced in the Senate after the defeat
of the Elections Bill in 1894 that in my judgment it would not be wise to renew the attempt
to control National election by National authority until both parties in the country should
agree upon that subject.

We should have had little difficulty in dealing with the Negro or the Indian, or the Oriental, if the
American people had applied to them, as the Golden Rule requires,
the principles they expect to apply and to have applied to themselves.

We have never understood that in some essential matters human nature is the same in men of all
colors and races. Our Fathers of the time of the Revolution understood this matter better than
we do. The difficult problems in our national politics at this hour will nearly all of them be
solved if the people will adhere to rules of conduct imposed as restraints in the early constitutions.
The sublimity of the principle of self-government does not consist wholly or chiefly in the
idea that self is the person who governs, but quite as much in the doctrine that self is the
person who is governed.

How our race troubles would disappear if the dominant Saxon would but obey, in his treatment
of the weaker races, the authority of the fundamental laws on which his own institutions rest!
The problem of to-day is not how to convert the heathen from heathenism, it is how to convert
the Christian from heathenism; not to teach the physician to heal the patient, but to heal
himself. The Indian problem is not chiefly how to teach the Indian to be less savage in his treatment
of the Saxon, but the Saxon to be less savage in his treatment of the Indian. The Chinese problem
is not how to keep Chinese laborers out of California, but how to
keep Chinese politics out of Congress.

The negro question will be settled when the education of the white
man is complete.

We make every allowance for ourselves.

We expect mankind to make every allowance for us.

We expect to be forgiven for our own wrong-doing.

We easily forgive our own white fellow citizens for the unutterable and terrible cruelties
they have committed on men of other races. But if a people just coming out of slavery or barbarism
commit a hundredth part of the same offence our righteous indignation knows no bounds. We have
no recognition for their eager desire for civilization or for liberty, no generous appreciation
of their improvement and promise. And the thousand things in them that give promise of good
in the future are disregarded if there be any trace left in them
of the old barbarism.

Has Reconstruction been a failure? Let us see about that. We must remember that the relations
of the black and white races to each other, which have existed almost from the foundation of
the world, cannot be changed in a single generation. It is but thirty-three years since General
Grant and the two Houses of Congress, in political accord with him and with each other, took
possession of the Government. That possession has been interrupted more than once. It is but
forty years since slavery was abolished. It is less than thirty years since the last of the three
great Amendments to the Constitution took effect. What has happened in that time? Slavery has
been abolished. That is not a failure. The negro owns his right to his own labor. He cannot
be separated from his wife or children. He is not prevented by law from learning to read the Bible.
These things are not failures. He can own land. He has schools and colleges. The young colored
man is received as an equal into nearly every Northern college and university. He has frequently
taken the highest university honors. I suppose he does not know, from the behavior of his companions,
that they think of the difference between the color of his skin and theirs. His right to vote
is secure in thirty-four of the forty-five States of the Union. So far, there has been no failure.
When the Civil War broke out, there were fifteen slave States and sixteen free States. In Maryland,
Delaware, and West Virginia the negro seems to have his place now
like other citizens.

The same thing probably is true in St. Louis, and likely to be true before long throughout
Missouri. There are thirty States out of forty-five, and there will before long probably be thirty-five
out of fifty in which the old race feeling, growing out of slavery has never got a hold. The old
race-hatred of the negro is getting into a corner. So far reconstruction
has not been a failure.

Two things are not yet accomplished. There are eleven States in which the negro is not yet secure
in his political rights; and there are as many, and perhaps two or three more, in which if he be
suspected of a crime of the first magnitude, he is likely to undergo a cruel death, without
a trial. That would have been quite as likely, indeed a good deal more likely to have happened,
if the reconstruction measures had never been enacted.

It is a bad thing that any man who has the Constitutional right to vote should fail to have his
vote received and counted. But I think it is a fair question whether the existence of this condition
throughout so large a country, with the prospect that slowly and
gradually as the negro improves he will get his rights, be not better
than the alternative which must have been his reduction to slavery
again, or what is nearly as bad, a race of peons in this country.

That is the question into the answer of which so much prejudice enters that it is hardly worth while
to reason about it. My opinion is that as the colored man gets land, becomes chaste, frugal, temperate,
industrious, veracious, that he will gradually acquire respect, and will attain political equality.
Let us not be in a hurry. Evils, if they be evils, which have existed from the foundation of the
world, are not to be cured in the lifetime of a single man.

The men of the day of reconstruction were controlled by the irresistible logic of events; by a power
higher than their own. I could see no alternative then, and I see no alternative now, better
than that which was adopted.

CHAPTER XVIII COMMITTEE SERVICE IN THE HOUSE The career of a Member
of either House of Congress is determined, except in rare cases, by
his assignment to Committees.

In the House that is wholly dependent on the favor of the Speaker. In the Senate those assignments are made
by Committees of the two parties, chosen for the purpose, who first agree on the representation
to be assigned to each. After the Senator has been assigned to a Committee he remains there unless
he himself desire a change, and if the Members older in the service retire he succeeds in the
end to the Chairmanship of the Committee. There has been no instance of a departure from this
rule, except when there is a change in the political control of the body, and no instance
of deposing a Member from a Committee without his consent, except the single and well-known case
of Mr. Sumner. I was always on friendly terms with Mr. Blaine during my entire service of eight
years in the House of Representatives.

But I owed nothing to any favor of his in the matter of Committee assignments. When I entered
the service I was put on the Committee of Education and Labor and on the Committee of Revision
of the Laws, both obscure and unimportant. In my second term I served a little while on the Committee
on Elections. I was also placed on the Committee of Railroad and Canals. I was made Chairman of
a special Committee to visit Louisiana and inquire into the legality of what was called the Kellogg
Government and report whether Governor Kellogg or his Democratic rival should be recognized
as the lawful Governor of Louisiana. I was afterward placed on the Judiciary Committee, a position
of great honor, which I liked very much. With the exception of the last none of these appointments
had any attraction for me.

They were all out of the line of my previous experience in life and the service they required
of me was disagreeable. I was placed on the Committee on the Judiciary by Mr. Speaker Kerr, a
Democrat. Mr. Blaine at this time very earnestly pressed Mr. Martin I. Townsend of New York for
the place. I do not conceive that I had any right to complain of Mr. Blaine in this matter.
I never made any request of him for any appointment within his gift and he was beset behind
and before by the demands of men he was unable to gratify, to many of whom he conceived himself under
great obligation. It should be stated too that in Mr. Blaine's time the Members from Massachusetts
older in the service than myself had very important places indeed. So it was hardly just to increase
the number of important Committee appointments from our State.

But it happened to me by great good fortune that I had an opportunity,
of which I was very glad, to accomplish something by reason of my
place on each Committee on which I served, which I could not have
accomplished without it.

An
amusing piece of good fortune happened to me at the beginning of my service. I was placed, as
I said, on the Committee on the Revision of the Laws. My law practice had been in the interior
of the Commonwealth. So I had little knowledge
of United States jurisprudence. I determined in order to fit myself
for my new duties to make a careful study of the statutes and law administered
in the United States Courts. I took with me to Washington a complete set of
the Reports of the Supreme Court of the United States and purchased Abbott's
Digest of those decisions, then just published. The first evening after
I got settled I spent in reading the opinions of the Supreme Court. Even if a young woman has not been
given an understudy, she ought, if she has any intention of taking her profession as an actress
seriously, to constitute herself an understudy to every part in the piece! Then she would not
find her time as a "super" hang heavy on her hands.

Some of my readers may be able to remember the "Stalactite Caverns" which used to form one
of the attractions at the Colosseum. It was there that I first studied the words of Juliet.
To me the gloomy horror of the place was a perfect godsend! Here I could cultivate a creepy,
eerie sensation, and get into a fitting frame of mind for the potion scene. Down in this least
imposing of subterranean abodes I used to tremble and thrill with passion and terror. Ah, if
only in after years, when I played Juliet at the Lyceum, I could have thrilled an audience
to the same extent!

After a few weeks at the Colosseum, we began our little tour. It was a very merry, happy time.
We traveled a company of five, although only two of us were acting. There were my father and
mother, Kate and myself, and Mr. Sydney Naylor, who played the very important part of orchestra.
With a few exceptions we made the journeys in a carriage. Once we tramped from Bristol to Exeter.
Oh, those delightful journeys on the open road! I tasted the joys of the strolling player's
existence, without its miseries. I saw the country for the first time.... When they asked me
what I was thinking of as we drove along, I remember answering: "Only that I should like to
run wild in a wood for ever!" At night we stayed in beautiful little inns which were ever so
much more cheap and comfortable than the hotels of to-day. In some of the places we were asked
out to tea and dinner and very much fêted. An odd little troupe we were! Father was what we
will call for courtesy's sake "Stage Manager," but in reality he set the stage himself, and
did the work which generally falls to the lot of the stage manager and an army of carpenters
combined. My mother used to coach us up in our parts, dress us, make us go to sleep part of
the day so that we might look "fresh" at night, and look after us generally. Mr. Naylor, who
was not very much more than a boy, though to my childish eyes his years were quite venerable,
besides discoursing eloquent music in the evenings, during the progress of the "Drawing-room
Entertainment," would amuse us--me most especially--by being very entertaining himself during
our journeys from place to place. How he made us laugh about--well, mostly about nothing at all.

We traveled in this way for nearly two years, visiting a new place every day, and making, I
think, about ten to fifteen pounds a performance. Our little pieces were very pretty, but very
slight, too; and I can only suppose that the people thought that "never anything can be amiss
when simpleness and duty tender it," for they received our entertainment very well. The time
had come when my little brothers had to be sent to school, and our earnings came in useful.

When the tour came to an end in 1861, I went to London with my father to find an engagement,
while Kate joined the stock company at Bristol. We still gave the "Drawing-room Entertainment"
at Ryde in the summer, and it still drew large audiences.

In London my name was put on an agent's books in the usual way, and presently he sent me to
Madame Albina de Rhona, who had not long taken over the management of the Royal Soho Theater
and changed its name to the Royalty. The improvement did not stop at the new play. French workmen
had swept and garnished the dusty, dingy place and transformed it into a theater as dainty
and pretty as Madame de Rhona herself. Dancing was Madame's strong point, but she had been
very successful as an actress too, first in Paris and Petersburg, and then in London at the
St. James's and Drury Lane. What made her go into management on her own account I don't know.
I suppose she was ambitious, and rich enough for the enterprise.

At this time I was "in standing water," as Malvolio says of Viola when she is dressed as a
boy. I was neither child nor woman--a long-legged girl of about thirteen, still in short skirts,
and feeling that I ought to have long ones. However, when I set out with father to see Madam
de Rhona, I was very smart. I borrowed Kate's new bonnet--pink silk trimmed with black lace--and
thought I looked nice in it. So did father, for he said on the way to the theater that pink
was my color. In fact, I am sure it was the bonnet that made Madame de Rhona engage me on the spot!

She was the first Frenchwoman I had ever met, and I was tremendously interested in her. Her
neat and expressive ways made me feel very "small," or rather big and clumsy, even at the first
interview. A quick-tempered, bright, energetic little woman, she nearly frightened me out of
my wits at the first rehearsal by dancing round me on the stage in a perfect frenzy of anger
at what she was pleased to call my stupidity. Then something I did suddenly pleased her, and
she overwhelmed me with compliments and praise. After a time these became the order of the
day, and she soon won my youthful affections. "Gross flattery," as a friend of mine says, "is
good enough for me!" Madame de Rhona was, moreover, very kind-hearted and generous. To her
generosity I owed the first piece of jewelery I ever possessed--a pretty little brooch, which,
with characteristic carelessness, I promptly lost! Besides being flattered by her praise and
grateful for her kindness, I was filled with great admiration for her. She was a wee thing--like
a toy, and her dancing was really exquisite. When I watched the way she moved her hands and
feet, despair entered my soul. It was all so precise, so "express and admirable." Her limbs
were so dainty and graceful--mine so big and unmanageable! "How long and gaunt I am," I used
to say to myself, "and what a pattern of prim prettiness she is!" I was so much ashamed of
my large hands, during this time at the Royalty, that I kept them tucked up under my arms!
This subjected me to unmerciful criticism from Madame Albina at rehearsals.

"Take down your hands," she would call out. "Mon Dieu! It is like an ugly young poulet going
to roost!"

In spite of this, I did not lose my elegant habit for many years! I was only broken of it at
last by a friend saying that he supposed I had very ugly hands, as I never showed them! That
did it! Out came the hands to prove that they were not so very ugly, after all! Vanity often
succeeds where remonstrance fails.

The greenroom at the Royalty was a very pretty little place, and Madame Albina sometimes had
supper-parties there after the play. One night I could not resist the pangs of curiosity, and
I peeped through the keyhole to see what was going on! I chose a lucky moment! One of Madame's
admirers was drinking champagne out of her slipper! It was even worth the box on the ear that
mother gave me when she caught me. She had been looking all over the theater for me, to take
me home.

My first part at the Royalty was Clementine in "Attar Gull." Of the play, adapted from a story
by Eugene Sue, I have a very hazy recollection, but I know that I had one very effective scene
in it. Clementine, an ordinary fair-haired ingenue in white muslin, has a great horror of snakes,
and, in order to cure her of her disgust, some one suggests that a dead snake should be put
in her room, and she be taught how harmless the thing is for which she had such an aversion.
An Indian servant, who, for some reason or other, has a deadly hatred for the whole family,
substitutes a live reptile. Clementine appears at the window with the venomous creature coiled
round her neck, screaming with wild terror. The spectators on the stage think that the snake
is dead, and that she is only screaming from "nerves," but in reality she is being slowly strangled.
I began screaming in a frantic, heartrending manner, and continued screaming, each cry surpassing
the last in intensity and agony. At rehearsal I could not get these screams right for a long
time. Madame de Rhona grew more and more impatient and at last flew at me like a wild-cat and
shook me. I cried, just as I had done when I could not get Prince Arthur's terror right, and
then the wild, agonized scream that Madame de Rhona wanted came to me. I reproduced it and
enlarged it in effect. On the first night the audience applauded the screaming more than anything
in the play. Madame de Rhona assured me that I had made a sensation, kissed me and said I was
a genius! How sweet and pleasant her flattering words sounded in my young and inexperienced
ears I need hardly say.

Looking back to it now, I know perfectly well why I, a mere child of thirteen, was able to
give such a realistic display of horror. I had the emotional instinct to start with, no doubt,
but if I did it well, it was because I was able to imagine what would be real in such a situation.
I had never observed such horror, but I had previously realized it, when, as Arthur, I had
imagined the terror of having my eyes put out.

Imagination! imagination! I put it first years ago, when I was asked what qualities I thought
necessary for success upon the stage. And I am still of the same opinion. Imagination, industry,
and intelligence--"the three I's"--are all indispensable to the actress, but of these three
the greatest is, without any doubt, imagination.

After this "screaming" success, which, however, did not keep "Attar Gull" in the bill at the
Royalty for more than a few nights, I continued to play under Madame de Rhona's management
until February 1862. During these few months new plays were being constantly put on, for Madame
was somehow not very fortunate in gauging the taste of the public. It was in the fourth production--"The
Governor's Wife," that, as Letty Briggs, I had my first experience of what is called "stage
fright." I had been on the stage more than five years, and had played at least sixteen parts,
so there was really no excuse for me. I suspect now that I had not taken enough pains to get
word-perfect. I know I had five new parts to study between November 21 and December 26.

Stage fright is like nothing else in the world. You are standing on the stage apparently quite
well and in your right mind, when suddenly you feel as if your tongue had been dislocated and
was lying powerless in your mouth. Cold shivers begin to creep downwards from the nape of your
neck and all up you at the same time, until they seem to meet in the small of your back. About
this time you feel as if a centipede, all of whose feet have been carefully iced, has begun
to run about in the roots of your hair. The next agreeable sensation is the breaking out of
a cold sweat all over. Then you are certain that some one has cut the muscles at the back of
your knees. Your mouth begins to open slowly, without giving utterance to a single sound, and
your eyes seem inclined to jump out of your head over the footlights. At this point it is as
well to get off the stage as quickly as you can, for you are far beyond human help.

Whether everybody suffers in this way or not I cannot say, but it exactly describes the torture
I went through in "The Governor's Wife." I had just enough strength and sense to drag myself
off the stage and seize a book, with which, after a few minutes, I reappeared and ignominiously
read my part. Whether Madame de Rhona boxed my ears or not, I can't remember, but I think it
is very likely she did, for she was very quick-tempered. In later years I have not suffered
from the fearsome malady, but even now, after fifty years of stage-life, I never play a new
part without being overcome by a terrible nervousness and a torturing dread of forgetting my
lines. Every nerve in my body seems to be dancing an independent jig on its own account.

It was at the Royalty that I first acted with Mr. Kendal. He and I played together in a comedietta
called "A Nice Quiet Day." Soon after, my engagement came to an end, and I went to Bristol,
where I gained the experience of my life with a stock company.

LIFE IN A STOCK COMPANY

1862-1863

"I think anything, naturally written, ought to be in everybody's way that pretends to be an
actor." This remark of Colley Cibber's long ago struck me as an excellent motto for beginning
on the stage. The ambitious boy thinks of Hamlet, the ambitious girl of Lady Macbeth or Rosalind,
but where shall we find the young actor and actress whose heart is set on being useful?

Usefulness! It is not a fascinating word, and the quality is not one of which the aspiring
spirit can dream o' nights, yet on the stage it is the first thing to aim at. Not until we
have learned to be useful can we afford to do what we like. The tragedian will always be a
limited tragedian if he has not learned how to laugh. The comedian who cannot weep will never
touch the highest levels of mirth.

It was in the stock companies that we learned the great lesson of usefulness; we played everything--tragedy,
comedy, farce, and burlesque. There was no question of parts "suiting" us; we had to take what
we were given.

The first time I was cast for a part in a burlesque I told the stage manager I couldn't sing
and I couldn't dance. His reply was short and to the point. "You've got to do it," and so I
did it in a way--a very funny way at first, no doubt. It was admirable training, for it took
all the self-consciousness out of me to start with. To end with, I thought it capital fun,
and enjoyed burlesque as much as Shakespeare.

What was a stock company? I forget that in these days the question may be asked in all good
faith, and that it is necessary to answer it. Well, then, a stock company was a company of
actors and actresses brought together by the manager of a provincial theater to support a leading
actor or actress--"a star"--from London. When Edmund Kean, the Kembles, Macready, or Mrs. Siddons
visited provincial towns, these companies were ready to support them in Shakespeare. They were
also ready to play burlesque, farce, and comedy to fill out the bill. Sometimes the "stars"
would come for a whole season; if their magnitude were of the first order, for only one night.
Sometimes they would rehearse with the stock company, sometimes they wouldn't. There is a story
of a manager visiting Edmund Kean at his hotel on his arrival in a small provincial town, and
asking the great actor when he would rehearse.

"Rehearse! I'm not going to rehearse--I'm going to sleep!"

"Have you any instructions?"

"Instructions! No! Tell 'em to keep at a long arm's length away from me and do their d----d worst!"

At Bristol, where I joined Mr. J.H. Chute's stock company in 1861, we had no experience of
that kind, perhaps because there was no Kean alive to give it to us. And I don't think that
our "worst" would have been so very bad. Mr. Chute, who had married Macready's half-sister,
was a splendid manager, and he contrived to gather round him a company which was something
more than "sound."

Several of its members distinguished themselves greatly in after years. Among these I may mention
Miss Marie Wilton (now Lady Bancroft) and Miss Madge Robertson (now Mrs. Kendal).

Lady Bancroft had left the company before I joined it, but Mrs. Kendal was there, and so was
Miss Henrietta Hodson (afterwards Mrs. Labouchere). I was much struck at that time by Mrs.
Kendal's singing. Her voice was beautiful. As an example of how anything can be twisted to
make mischief, I may quote here an absurd tarradiddle about Mrs. Kendal never forgetting in
after years that in the Bristol stock company she had to play the singing fairy to my Titania
in "A Midsummer Night's Dream." The simple fact, of course, was that she had the best voice
in the company, and was of such infinite value in singing parts that no manager in his senses
would have taken her out of them. There was no question of my taking precedence of her, or
of her playing second fiddle to me.

Miss Hodson was a brilliant burlesque actress, a good singer, and a capital dancer. She had
great personal charm, too, and was an enormous favorite with the Bristol public. I cannot exactly
call her a "rival" of my sister Kate's, for Kate was the "principal lady" or "star," and Henrietta
Hodson the "soubrette," and, in burlesque, the "principal boy." Nevertheless, there were certainly
rival factions of admirers, and the friendly antagonism between the Hodsonites and the Terryites
used to amuse us all greatly.

We were petted, spoiled, and applauded to our heart's content, but I don't think it did us
any harm. We all had scores of admirers, but their youthful ardor seemed to be satisfied by
tracking us when we went to rehearsal in the morning and waiting for us outside the stage-door
at night.

When Kate and I had a "benefit" night, they had an opportunity of coming to rather closer quarters,
for on these occasions tickets could be bought from members of the company, as well as at the
box-office of the theater.

Our lodgings in Queen Square were besieged by Bristol youths who were anxious to get a glimpse
of the Terrys. The Terrys demurely chatted with them and sold them tickets. My mother was most
vigilant in her rôle of duenna, and from the time I first went on the stage until I was a grown
woman I can never remember going home unaccompanied by either her or my father.

The leading male members of Mr. Chute's stock company were Arthur Wood (an admirable comedian),
William George Rignold, W.H. Vernon, and Charles Coghlan. At this time Charles Coghlan was
acting magnificently, and dressing each of his characters so correctly and so perfectly that
most of the audience did not understand it. The young men used to fill the court-house to hear
his arguments to juries. He became a very profound lawyer, always mastering the learning of
the case, but never leaning too much upon authorities. Charles Emerson's beautiful phrase in
his epitaph upon Professor Ashmun, "Books were his helpers, never his masters," was most aptly
applied to Thomas. If he had any foible which affected at all his usefulness or success in life it
was an impatience of authority, whether it were the authority of
a great reputation, or of party, or of public sentiment, or of the
established and settled opinions of mankind.

He went on the Supreme Bench in 1853. Dissenting opinions were rare in the Massachusetts Supreme
Court in those days. In this I think the early Judges were extremely wise. Nothing shakes the
authority of a court more than the frequent habit of individual dissent. But Judge Thomas dissented
from the judgments of his court on several very important occasions. His dissenting opinions
were exceedingly alike. I think it would have been better if they
had not been delivered.

    I think he would have been much more likely
    to have come to the other conclusion if
    the somewhat imperious intellect of Shaw had
    not been put into the prevailing scale.
    When all Massachusetts bowed down to Webster, Judge Thomas, though
he respected and honored the great public idol, supported Taylor as
a candidate for the Presidency.

At the dinner given to the Electoral College after the election, where Mr. Webster was present,
Judge Thomas shocked the meeting by saying: "Some persons have spoken of our candidate as their
second choice.

I am proud to say that General Taylor was not only my last, but my first choice." So, when Judge
Thomas was in Congress, while he was as thoroughly loyal, patriotic, and brave a man as ever
lived, he opposed the policies of the Republican Party for carrying
on the war and putting down the Rebellion.

He was thought to be inspired by a great dislike of submitting to party authority or even to that
of President Lincoln. He was very fond of young men. When he was Judge they always found that
they had all the consideration that they deserved, and had no fear of being put at a disadvantage
by any antagonist, however able or experienced. The Judge seemed always to be stirred by the
suggestion of an intellectual difficulty. When I was seeking some remedy at his hands, especially
in equity, I used to say that I thought I had a just case, but I was afraid his Honor might
think the legal difficulties were insuperable and I did not know whether I could get his Honor's approbation
of what I asked. He would instantly rouse himself and seem to take the suggestion as a challenge,
and if it were possible for human ingenuity to find a way to accomplish what I wanted he would
do it. He preserved the sweetness and joyous spirit of boyhood to the day of his death. It
was delightful to catch him when he was at leisure, to report to him any pleasant story that
was going about, and to hear his merry laugh and pleasant voice. He was a model of the judicial
character. It was a delight to practise before him at nisi prius. I have known a great many
admirable lawyers and a good many very great Judges. I have known some who had more learning, and
some, I suppose, though very few, who had greater vigor of intellect.

But no better Judge ever sat in a Massachusetts court-house. Dwight Foster felicitously applied
to him the sentence which was first uttered of Charles James Fox, that "his intellect was all
feeling, and his feeling all intellect."

Dwight Foster came to the Bar just a week after I did.

But I ought not to omit him in any account of the Massachusetts lawyers
or Judges of my time.

He rose rapidly to a place in the first rank of Massachusetts lawyers, which he held until his
untimely death. He was graduated the first scholar in his class at Yale in 1848. Before he
was graduated he became engaged to a very admirable and accomplished lady, daughter of Roger S.
Baldwin, Governor of Connecticut and United States Senator, then
head of the Connecticut Bar.

This lady had some tendency to a disorder of the lungs and throat which had proved fatal to two
of her brothers. Dwight Foster was very anxious to get her away from New Haven, where he thought
the climate and her habit of mingling in gay society very unfavorable
to her health.

So he set himself to work to get admitted to the Bar and get established in business that he might
have a place for her in Worcester. He was examined by Mr. Justice Metcalf, after studying a
little more than a year, and found possessed of attainments uncommon even for persons who had
studied the full three years and had been a good while at the Bar. Judge Metcalf admitted him,
and on some other Judge criticising what he had done, the Judge said, with great indignation,
"If he thinks Foster is not qualified, let him examine him himself."

Mr. Foster's first employment had very awkward consequences.

The people in Worcester had the old Puritanic dislike to theatrical entertainments, and had
always refused to license such exhibitions. But a company of actors desired to obtain a theatre for the
season and give performances in Worcester. There was a great opposition, and the city government
ordered a public hearing of the petition in the old City Hall. Foster was employed by the petitioners.
The hall was crowded with citizens interested in the matter, and the Mayor and Aldermen sat in
state on the platform. When the hearing was opened, the audience were struck with astonishment
by the coming forward of Dwight Foster's father, the Hon. Alfred D. Foster, a highly honored citizen
of great influence and ability. He had been in the State Senate and had held some few political
offices, but had disliked such service and had never practised law, having a considerable property
which he had inherited from his father, the former United States Senator. He made a most eloquent
and powerful appeal to the aldermen to refuse the petition, in the
name of morality and good order.

He stated the deplorable effect of attending such exhibitions on the character of the youth
of our city of both sexes, cited the opinion and practice of our ancestors in such matters, and
made a profound impression. He then warned his hearers against the young man who was to follow
him, whom, he said, he loved as his life, but he was there employed
as a lawyer with his fee in his hand, without the responsibility which
rested upon them of protecting the morals and good order of the city.

It was very seldom that so powerful a speech was heard in that hall, although it was the cradle
of the Anti-slavery movement, and had been the scene of some of the most famous efforts of famous
orators. Everybody supposed that the youth was crushed and would not venture to perform his duty
in the face of such an attack. But he was fully equal to the occasion. He met his father with
a clear, simple, modest, but extremely able statement of the other side; pointed out the harmlessness
of such exhibitions when well conducted, and that the strictness which confounded innocence
and purity with guilt and vice was itself the parent and cause of vice. He did not allude to
his father by name or description, but in replying to his arguments
said: "It is said in some quarters," or "An opposition comes from
some quarters" founded on such-and-such reasons.

He got the sympathy of his audience and carried his point. And from that time nobody hesitated
to trust Dwight Foster with any cause, however important, from any doubt of his capacity to take care
of his clients.

He had been brought up as a Whig.

But when the Nebraska Bill was passed, he became a zealous and earnest Republican. He was candidate
for Mayor, but defeated on a very close vote by George W. Richardson. He held the office of
Judge of Probate for a short time, by appointment of Governor Banks; was elected Attorney-General
in 1860 when Governor Andrew was chosen Governor, and soon after was appointed Judge of the
Supreme Court, an office which he filled with great distinction, then left the Bench to resume
his practice, and died of a disease of the heart which he inherited from his ancestors. He
was Governor Andrew's Attorney-General during the War, who said of him that "he was full of
the fire and hard-working zeal of Massachusetts." He was the organ of the patriotism and energy
of Worcester at the seat of government during the war, looking out for the interests of her
soldiers, and always urging the brave and vigorous counsel. I lost a stanch friend by his death.
I can sum up his qualities in no better way than by the word "manliness." He never uttered an
ignoble word, thought an ignoble thought, or did an ignoble act.

His method of speech was clear, simple, spirited, without much pathos or emotion, but still
calculated to stir and move his hearers.

I had more intimate relations with Judge Thomas L. Nelson than with any other member of the Worcester
Bar except those with whom I formed a partnership. We were never in partnership. But after
I went to Congress in 1869, he moved into my office until his appointment to the Bench. So
when I was at home we were in the same room. He had been accustomed for a long time before to
employ me to assist him in important trials before the jury and in arguments before the Supreme
Court. I suppose I am responsible for his appointment to the District Court, although the original
suggestion was not mine. After the death of Judge Shepley, there was a general expectation
that Judge John Lowell, of the District Court, would be made Circuit Judge. One morning one
of the Boston papers suggested several names for the succession,
among them that of Mr. Knowlton, of Springfield, and Mr. Nelson.

I said nothing to him. But he observed: "I see in a paper that I am spoken of as District Judge."
I replied: "Yes, I saw the article." Neither of us said anything
further on the subject.

When I got to Washington I met Mr. Devens, then Attorney-General, who said, "We shall have
to appoint a District Judge, I suppose. I think your friend Nelson is the best man for it. But
I suppose he would not accept it." I said: "No, I don't believe he would accept it. But, if
you think he is the best man for it, the question whether he will
accept it ought to be determined by him, and not by his friends for
him."

I had no thought that Mr. Nelson would leave his practice for the Bench. But I thought it would
be a very agreeable thing to him to have the offer. I wrote to him a day or two afterward
that I thought it likely he would be offered the place. He answered by asking me, if it were
to be offered to him, how much time would be given to him to consider the matter. Soon after I
was informed by Attorney-General Devens that the President had offered him the place on the
Circuit Bench, and that he very much desired to accept it.

But he thought that, although the President had put the place at his disposal, he was very
unwilling to have any change in the Cabinet, and doubted whether he ought to accept the offer unless
he were very sure the President was willing to spare him. One day soon after, President Hayes sent
for me to come to see him. I called at the Attorney-General's office, told him the President had
sent for me, and that he probably wished to speak about the Circuit Judgeship, and I wanted to
know what he would like to have me say. Devens said that he should prefer that way of spending
the rest of his life to any other. But the President had done him a great honor in inviting
him to his Cabinet, and he did not wish to leave him unless he were sure that the President was
willing. I went to the White House.

When President Hayes opened the subject, I told him what was the Attorney-General's opinion. The
President said that if he could be sure that were true, it would relieve his mind of a great
burden. I told him he could depend on it. The President said he did not know anybody else whom
he should be as willing to have in his Cabinet as Devens, unless I myself would consent to accept
the place. He gave a little friendly urging in that direction. I told him that I had lately
been elected to the Senate after a considerable controversy, and that I did not think I could
in justice to the people of the State make a vacancy in the office which would occasion a new
strife.

I called on Devens on my way back, and reported to him what the President
had said.

He immediately went to the White House, and they had a full understanding, which resulted
in Devens keeping his place in the Cabinet through the Administration.

It was then suggested that while Judge Lowell was a most admirable District Judge, and in every way an
admirable lawyer, yet that it would be better if it were possible to get one of the leaders
of the Bar, who would supply what Judge Lowell lacked-- the capacity for charging juries on facts,
and presiding at jury trials, and to leave him in the District Court, where his services were
so valuable. The office of Circuit Judge was accordingly offered to Mr. William G. Russell.
I wrote to Nelson, asking him to consider my first letter on the subject as not having been written.
Mr. Russell replied, declining the place, and saying, with great
emphasis that he was sorry the President should hesitate a moment
about offering the place to Judge Lowell, whom he praised very highly.

But the President and the Attorney-General thought that it should be offered to Mr. George O.
Shattuck, a very eminent lawyer and advocate. On inquiry, however, it turned out that Mr. Shattuck,
who was in poor health, was absent on a journey, and it was so unlikely that he would accept
the offer that it was thought best not to diminish the value and honor to Judge Lowell of the
place by offering it further to another person. Accordingly the place was offered to Judge Lowell
and accepted by him.

General Devens than said to me: "I have been thinking over the matter of the District Judge,
and I think if a man entirely suitable can be found in the Suffolk Bar, that the appointment
rather belongs to that Bar, and I should like, if you have no objection,
to propose to the President to offer it to Mr. Charles Allen."

    Mr. Allen was later Judge of the
    Supreme Court of Massachusetts.
    I assented, but said: "If Mr.
    Allen refuses it, I hope it will then be offered to Mr. Nelson, in
accordance with your original opinion."

The Attorney-General agreed. The offer was made to Mr. Allen, and by him declined. When the letter
of refusal came, the Attorney-General and I went together to the White House and showed the
President the letter. In the meantime a very strong recommendation of Mr. Oliver Wendell Holmes,
Jr., now of the Supreme Court, had been received by the President. He felt a good deal of interest
in Holmes. I think they had both been wounded in the same battle. But, at any rate, they were
comrades. The President then said: "I rather think Holmes is the man." I then gave him my opinion
of Mr. Nelson, and the President said to Devens: "Do you agree, Mr. Attorney-General?" Devens
said: "I do." And the President said: "Then Nelson be it." Mr. Nelson, to my surprise, accepted the
appointment.

Judge Nelson was a master of equity and bankruptcy.

No doctrine was too subtle or abstruse for him. The matter of marshalling assets, or the tacking
of mortgages, and such things which require a good deal of the genius of the mathematician, were
clear in his apprehension. He was one of the two or three men in the State who ever understood
the complications of the old loan-fund associations. He was especially a master of legal remedies.
He held on like a bull-dog to a case in the justice of which he believed. When you had got a
verdict and judgment in the Supreme Court against one of Nelson's clients, he was just ready
to begin work. Then look out for him. He had with this trait also a great modesty and diffidence.
If anybody put to him confidently a proposition against his belief,
Nelson was apt to be silent, but, as Mr. Emerson said of Samuel Hoar,
"with an unaltered belief."

He would come out with his reply days after. When he came to state the strong point in arguing
his case, he would sink his voice so it could hardly be heard, and look away like a bashful
maiden giving her consent. Judge Bigelow told me, very early in Nelson's career, that he wished
I would ask my friend to make his arguments a little longer, and to raise his voice so the
court could hear him better. They always found his arguments full of instruction, and disliked
to lose anything so good a lawyer had to say. His value as a Judge was largely in consultation
and in his sound opinions.

I suppose that, like his predecessor, Judge Lowell, he was not the very best of Judges to
preside at jury trials, or to guide juries in their deliberations. Indeed, Nelson had many
of the intellectual traits-- the same merits and the same defects that Lowell had. Lowell was
a man of great wit, and a favorite with the Boston Bar when he was appointed. So they made the
best of him. They were not inclined to receive Nelson's appointment very graciously. It was
some years before he established a high place in their confidence and esteem. But it was established
before his death.

Gray and Putnam and Webb, all in their way lawyers of the first class, found Nelson a most valuable
and acceptable associate, and have all spoken of him in most enthusiastic terms. He was a good
naturalist.

He knew the song-birds, their habits, and dwelling-places. He knew all the stars. He liked
to discuss difficult and profound questions of public policy, constitutional law, philosophy, and metaphysics.
Sometimes, when I came home from Washington after a period of hard work, if I happened to find
Nelson in the cars when I went to Boston, it was almost painful to spend an hour with him,
although his conversation was very profound and interesting. But it was like attempting to
take up and solve a difficult problem in geometry. I was tired, and wanted to be humming a negro
melody to myself. He was a man of absolute integrity, not caring whether he pleased or displeased
anybody. He had a good deal of literary knowledge, was specially fond of Emerson, and knew him
very thoroughly, both prose and verse. He had a good deal of wit, one of the brightest examples
of which I will not undertake to quote here. He was a civil engineer in his youth, and was
always valuable in complicated questions of boundary, or cases like our sewer and water cases,
which require the application of practical mathematics. He was a friendly and placable person
so far as he was concerned himself, but resented, with great indignation, any unkindness toward
any of his friends or household. His friend and associate, Judge Webb, after his death spoke
with great beauty and pathos of Nelson's love of nature and of his
old county home: "When, in later years, he revisited the scenes of
his childhood, he made no effort to conceal his affection for them;
as he wandered among the mountains and along the valleys, so dearly
remembered, his eye would grow bright, his face beam with pleasure,
and his voice sound with the tone of deep sensibility.

He grew eloquent as he described the beauty spread out before him,
and lovingly dwelt on the majesty and grandeur of the mountain at the
foot of which his infancy was cradled. It was high companionship to
be with him at such times. His ear was open to catch the note of every
bird, which came to him like voices of well-beloved friends; he knew
the brooks from their sources to their mouths, and the rivers murmured
to him the songs they sang in the Auld Lang Syne.

But deep as was the joy of these visits, they did not allure him from the more rugged paths of labor
and duty." The wisdom of Nelson's selection, if it need vindication, is abundantly established by the
memorial of him reported by a committee, of which Lewis S. Dabney was chairman, and adopted by
the Suffolk Bar. The Bar, speaking of the doubt expressed in the beginning by those who feared
an inland lawyer on the Admiralty Bench, goes on to say: "Those who knew him well, however,
knew that he had been a successful master and referee in many complicated
cases of great importance; that his mathematical and scientific knowledge
acquired in his early profession as an engineer was large and accurate,
and would be useful in his new position; that he who had successfully
drawn important public acts would be a successful interpreter of such
acts; that always a student approaching every subject, not as an advocate
but as a judicial observer, he would give that attention to whatever
was new among the problems of his judicial office that would make
him their best master and interpreter, and that what in others might
be considered weakness or indolence was but evidence of a painful
shrinking from displaying in public a naturally firm, strong, earnest
and persistent character, a character which would break out through
the limitations of nature whenever the occasion required it."

Those
who, as his associates upon the Bench, or as practitioners before him at the Bar, have had occasion
to watch his long and honorable career, now feel that the judgment of his friends was the best and
that his appointment has been justified; and those who have known
him as an Associate Justice of the Circuit Court of Appeals have felt
this even more strongly.

"Another striking figure of my time was Horace Gray. He was in the class before me at Harvard, though
considerably younger.

I knew him by sight only in those days. He was very tall, with an exceedingly youthful countenance,
and a head that looked then rather small of so large-limbed a youth--
rather awkward in his gait and bearing. But after he reached manhood he
grew into one of the finest-looking men of his time. I believe he was
the tallest man in Boston. He expanded in every way to a figure which corresponded
to his stately height. He was the grandson of the famous William
Gray, the great merchant and ship-owner of New England, who was an important
figure in the days just preceding and just following the War of 1812.
Many anecdotes are still current of his wise and racy sayings. His
sons inherited large fortunes and were all of them men of mark and
influence in Boston. Francis C. Grey, the Judge's uncle, was a man of letters,
a historical investigator. He discovered the priceless Body of Liberties
of 1641, which had remained unprinted from that time, although the source
from which our Bill of Rights and constitutional provisions had been
so largely drawn.

Judge Gray's father was largely employed in manufacturing and owned some large iron works. The
son had been brought up, I suppose, to expect that his life would be one of comfort and ease,
free from all anxieties about money, and the extent of the labor of life would be, perhaps,
to visit the counting-room a few hours in the day to look over the
books and see generally that his affairs were properly conducted
by his agents and subordinates.

He had visited Europe more than once, and was abroad shortly after his graduation when the news reached
him that the companies in which his father's fortune was invested had failed. He at once hurried home
and set himself resolutely to work to take care of himself. He was an accomplished naturalist for
his age and time, and had a considerable library of works on natural history. He exchanged them for
law-books and entered the Law School. I was splitting wood to make my own fire one autumn morning
when my door, which was ajar, was pushed open, and I saw a face somewhere up in the neighborhood of
the transom. It was Gray, who had come to inquire what it was all about. He had little knowledge of
the rules or fashions of the Law School. I told him about the scheme of instruction and the hours
of lectures, and so forth. We became fast friends, a friendship maintained
to his death.

He at once manifested a very vigorous intellect and a memory, not only for legal principles, but for
the names of cases, which I suppose had been cultivated by his studies in natural history and
learning the scientific names of birds and plants. At any rate, he
became one of the best pupils in the Law School.

He afterward
studied law with Edward D. Sohier, and immediately after his admission became known as one of the
most promising young men at the Bar.

Once, at the dictates of a conscience perhaps over fastidious, I made a bonfire of my letters.
But a few were saved from the burning, more by accident than design. Among them I found yesterday
a kind little note from Sir William Vernon Harcourt, which shows me that I must have known
him, too, at the time of my first marriage and met him later on when I returned to the stage.

     "You cannot tell how much pleased I am to hear that you have been
     as happy as you deserve to be. The longer one lives, the more one
     learns not to despair, and to believe that nothing is impossible to
     those who have courage and hope and youth--I was going to add
     beauty and genius." (This is the sort of thing that made me
     blush--and burn my letters before they shamed me!)

     "My little boy is still the charm and consolation of my life. He is
     now twelve years old, and though I say it that should not, is a
     perfect child, and wins the hearts of all who know him."

That little boy, now in His Majesty's Government, is known as the Right Honorable Lewis Harcourt.
He married an American lady, Miss Burns of New York.

Many inaccurate stories have been told of my brief married life, and I have never contradicted
them--they were so manifestly absurd. Those who can imagine the surroundings into which I,
a raw girl, undeveloped in all except my training as an actress, was thrown, can imagine the
situation.

Of one thing I am certain. While I was with Signor--the name by which Mr. Watts was known among
his friends--I never had one single pang of regret for the theater. This may do me no credit,
but it is true.

I wondered at the new life, and worshiped it because of its beauty. When it suddenly came to
an end, I was thunderstruck; and refused at first to consent to the separation, which was arranged
for me in much the same way as my marriage had been.

The whole thing was managed by those kind friends whose chief business in life seems to be
the care of others. I don't blame them. There are cases where no one is to blame. "There do
exist such things as honest misunderstandings," as Charles Reade was always impressing on me
at a later time. There were no vulgar accusations on either side, and the words I read in the
deed of separation, "incompatibility of temper"--a mere legal phrase--more than covered the
ground. Truer still would have been "incompatibility of occupation," and the interference of
well-meaning friends. We all suffer from that sort of thing. Pray God one be not a well-meaning
friend one's self!

"The marriage was not a happy one," they will probably say after my death, and I forestall
them by saying that it in many ways was very happy indeed. What bitterness there was effaced
itself in a very remarkable way.

I saw Mr. Watts but once face to face after the separation. We met in the street at Brighton,
and he told me that I had grown! I was never to speak to him again. But years later, after
I had appeared at the Lyceum and had made some success in the world, I was in the garden of
a house which adjoined Mr. Watt's new Little Holland House, and he, in his garden, saw me through
the hedge. It was then that I received from him the first letter that I had had for years.
In this letter he told me that he had watched my success with eager interest, and asked me
to shake hands with him in spirit. "What success I may have," he wrote, "will be very incomplete
and unsatisfactory if you cannot do what I have long been hesitating to ask. If you cannot,
keep silence. If you can, one word, 'Yes,' will be enough."

I answered simply, "Yes."

After that he wrote to me again, and for two or three years we corresponded, but I never came
into personal contact with him.

As the past is now to me like a story in a book that I once read, I can speak of it easily.
But if by doing so I thought that I might give pain or embarrassment to any one else, I should
be silent about this long-forgotten time. After careful consideration it does not seem to me
that it can be either indiscreet or injurious to let it be known that this great artist honored
and appreciated my efforts and strife in my art; that this great man could not rid himself
of the pain of feeling that he "had spoiled my life" (a chivalrous assumption of blame for
what was, I think, a natural, almost inevitable, catastrophe), and that long after all personal
relation had been broken off, he wrote to me gently, kindly,--as sympathetically ignoring the
strangeness of the position, as if, to use his own expression, "we stood face to face on the
brink of an universal grave."

When this tender kindness was established between us, he sent me a portrait-head that he had
done of me when I was his wife. I think it a very beautiful picture. He did not touch it except
to mend the edges, thinking it better not to try to improve it by the work of another time.

In one of these letters he writes that "there is nothing in all this that the world might not
know." Surely the world is always the better for having a little truth instead of a great deal
of idle inaccuracy and falsehood. That is my justification for publishing this, if justification
be needed.

If I did not fulfill his too high prophecy that "in addition to your artistic eminence, I feel
that you will achieve a solid social position, make yourself a great woman, and take a noble
place in the history of your time," I was the better for his having made it.

If I had been able to look into the future, I should have been less rebellious at the termination
of my first marriage. Was I so rebellious, after all? I am afraid I showed about as much rebellion
as a sheep. But I was miserable, indignant, unable to understand that there could be any justice
in what had happened. In a little more than two years I returned to the stage. I was practically
driven back by those who meant to be kind--Tom Taylor, my father and mother, and others. They
looked ahead and saw clearly it was for my good.

It was a good thing, but at the time I hated it. And I hated going back to live at home. Mother
furnished a room for me, and I thought the furniture hideous. Poor mother!

For years Beethoven always reminded me of mending stockings, because I used to struggle with
the large holes in my brothers' stockings upstairs in that ugly room, while downstairs Kate
played the "Moonlight Sonata." I caught up the stitches in time to the notes! This was the
period when, though every one was kind, I hated my life, hated every one and everything in
the world more than at any time before or since.

III

ROSSETTI, BERNHARDT, IRVING

1865-1867

Most people know that Tom Taylor was one of the leading playwrights of the 'sixties as well
as the dramatic critic of The Times, editor of Punch, and a distinguished Civil Servant, but
to us he was more than this--he was an institution! I simply cannot remember when I did not
know him. It is the Tom Taylors of the world who give children on the stage their splendid
education. We never had any education in the strict sense of the word, yet, through the Taylors
and others, we were educated. Their house in Lavender Sweep was lovely. I can hardly bear to
go near that part of London now, it is so horribly changed. Where are its green fields and
its chestnut-trees? We were always welcome at the Taylors', and every Sunday we heard music
and met interesting people--Charles Reade among them. Mrs. Taylor had rather a hard outside--she
was like Mrs. Charles Kean in that respect--and I was often frightened out of my life by her;
yet I adored her. She was in reality the most tender-hearted, sympathetic woman, and what an
admirable musician! She composed nearly all the music for her husband's plays. Every Sunday
there was music at Lavender Sweep--quartet playing with Madame Schumann at the piano.

Tom Taylor was one of the most benign and gentle of men, a good and a loyal friend. At first
he was more interested in my sister Kate's career than in mine, as was only natural; for, up
to the time of my first marriage, Kate had a present, I only a future. Before we went to Bristol
and played with the stock company, she had made her name. At the St. James's Theater, in 1862,
she was playing a small part in a version of Sardou's "Nos Intimes," known then as "Friends
and Foes," and in a later day and in another version as "Peril."

Miss Herbert--the beautiful Miss Herbert, as she was appropriately called--had the chief part
in the play (Mrs. Union), and Kate, although not the understudy, was called upon to play it
at a few hours' notice. She had from childhood acquired a habit of studying every part in every
play in which she was concerned, so she was as ready as though she had been the understudy.
Miss Herbert was not a remarkable actress, but her appearance was wonderful indeed. She was
very tall, with pale gold hair and the spiritual, ethereal look which the aesthetic movement
loved. When mother wanted to flatter me very highly, she said that I looked like Miss Herbert!
Rossetti founded many of his pictures on her, and she and Mrs. "Janie" Morris were his favorite
types. When any one was the object of Rossetti's devotion, there was no extravagant length
to which he would not go in demonstrating it. He bought a white bull because it had "eyes like
Janie Morris," and tethered it on the lawn of his home in Chelsea. Soon there was no lawn left--only
the bull! He invited people to meet it, and heaped favors on it until it kicked everything
to pieces, when he reluctantly got rid of it.

His next purchase was a white peacock, which, very soon after its arrival, disappeared under
the sofa. In vain did Rossetti "shoo" it out. It refused to budge. This went on for days.

"The lovely creature won't respond to me," said Rossetti pathetically to a friend.

The friend dragged out the bird.

"No wonder! It's dead!"

"Bulls don't like me," said Rossetti a few days later, "and peacocks aren't homely."

It preyed on his mind so much that he tried to repair the failure by buying some white dormice.
He sat them up on tiny bamboo chairs, and they looked sweet. When the winter was over, he invited
a party to meet them and congratulate them upon waking up from their long sleep.

"They are awake now," he said, "but how quiet they are! How full of repose!"

One of the guests went to inspect the dormice more closely, and a peculiar expression came
over his face. It might almost have been thought that he was holding his nose.

"Wake up, little dormice," said Rossetti, prodding them gently with a quill pen.

"They'll never do that," said the guest. "They're dead. I believe they have been dead some days!"

Do you think Rossetti gave up live stock after this? Not a bit of it. He tried armadillos and
tortoises.

"How are the tortoises?" he asked his man one day, after a long spell of forgetfulness that
he had any.

"Pretty well, sir, thank you.... That's to say, sir, there ain't no tortoises!"

The tortoises, bought to eat the beetles, had been eaten themselves. At least, the shells were
found full of beetles.

And the armadillos? "The air of Chelsea don't suit them," said Rossetti's servant. They had
certainly left Rossetti's house, but they had not left Chelsea. All the neighbors had dozens
of them! They had burrowed, and came up smiling in houses where they were far from welcome.

This by the way. Miss Herbert, who looked like the Blessed Damosel leaning out "across the
bar of heaven," was not very well suited to the line of parts that she was playing at the St.
James's, but she was very much admired. During the run of "Friends and Foes" she fell ill.
Her illness was Kate's opportunity. From the night that Kate played Mrs. Union, her reputation
was made.

It was a splendid chance, no doubt, but of what use would it have been to any one who was not
ready to use it? Kate, though only about nineteen at this time, was a finished actress. She
had been a perfect Ariel, a beautiful Cordelia, and had played at least forty other parts of
importance since she had appeared as a tiny Robin in the Keans' production of "The Merry Wives
of Windsor." She had not had her head turned by big salaries, and she had never ceased working
since she was four years old. No wonder that she was capable of bearing the burden of a piece
at a moment's notice. The Americans cleverly say that "the lucky cat watches." I should add
that the lucky cat works. Reputations on the stage--at any rate, enduring reputations--are
not made by chance, and to an actress who has not worked hard the finest opportunity in the
world will be utterly useless.

My own opinion of my sister's acting must be taken for what it is worth--and that is very little. "You
shall lodge in my house," he said, "if you can be satisfied with humble fare and my plain ways.
I am not a married man, but I have a good old woman who looks after me, and she will look after
you too, and you can come and go just as you please."

"I will take you at your word, my friend," said the other, "and will
gladly pay for bed and board."

"All right, all right," cried Mr Harris: "and for my part I am not going to pry into your reasons
for coming. You are one of the Lord's servants on an errand of mercy and self-denying love--
I can see that; and you are welcome to my services and my silence."

Amos thanked him warmly, and his moderate luggage was soon deposited in the Scripture reader's
dwelling.

The next morning, after an early breakfast, the two friends-- for true friends they at once became
in the bonds of the gospel, loving Christ's image in each other-- set out for Orlando Vivian's
lodging.

"You must be prepared for something very miserable," said the Scripture
reader.

"I am prepared for anything," said the other calmly. But truly Amos was staggered when he entered
the room where sat, in the midst of gloom and filth, the man who had been the cause of so much
distress to him and his. The atmosphere was oppressive with the concentrated foulness of numberless
evil odours. A bed there was in the darkest corner of the room on
the floor.

It looked as though composed of the refuse raked from a pig-sty, and thrust into a sack which
had been used for the conveyance of dust and bones. Bolster or pillow it had none, but against the
wall, where the bed's head was supposed to be, were three or four
logs of rough wood piled together, over which was laid a faded cloak
crumpled into a heap. Such was the only couch which the unhappy sufferer
had to lay him down upon at night, or when weary of sitting in the
high-backed, creaking armchair. Uncleanness met the eye on every side-- in
the one greasy plate, on which lay a lump of repulsive-looking food;
in the broken-mouthed jug, which reeked with the smell of stale beer;
in the window, whose bemired and cobwebbed panes kept out more light
than they admitted; in the ceiling, between whose smoke-grimed rafters
large rents allowed many an abomination to drop down from the crowded
room above; in the three-legged table, which, being loose in all its
decaying joints, reeled to and fro at every touch; in the spiders,
beetles, and other self-invited specimens of the insect tribe, which
had long found a congenial home in these dismal quarters. They sat like lovely
half-moons, lying back in their carriages. It was an age of elegance--in France particularly--an
age of luxury. They had just laid down asphalt for the first time in the streets of Paris,
and the quiet of the boulevards was wonderful after the rattling London streets. I often went
to three parties a night; but I was in a difficult position, as I could not speak a word of
the language. I met Tissot and Gambard, who had just built Rosa Bonheur's house at Nice.

I liked the Frenchmen because they liked me, but I didn't admire them.

I tried to learn to smoke, but I never took kindly to it and soon gave it up.

What was the thing that made me homesick for London? Household Words. The excitement in the
'sixties over each new Dickens can be understood only by people who experienced it at the time.
Boys used to sell Household Words in the streets, and they were often pursued by an eager crowd,
for all the world as if they were carrying news of the "latest winner."

Of course I went to the theater in Paris. I saw Sarah Bernhardt for the first time, and Madame
Favart, Croisette, Delaunay, and Got. I never thought Croisette--a superb animal--a "patch"
on Sarah, who was at this time as thin as a harrow. Even then I recognized that Sarah was not
a bit conventional, and would not stay long at the Comédie. Yet she did not put me out of conceit
with the old school. I saw "Les Précieuses Ridicules" finely done, and I said to myself then,
as I have often said since: "Old school--new school? What does it matter which, so long as
it is good enough?"

Madame Favart I knew personally, and she gave me many useful hints. One was never to black
my eyes underneath when "making up." She pointed out that although this was necessary when
the stage was lighted entirely from beneath, it had become ugly and meaningless since the introduction
of top lights.

The friend who took me everywhere in Paris landed me one night in the dressing-room of a singer.
I remember it because I heard her complain to a man of some injustice. She had not got some
engagement that she had expected.

"It serves you damn right!" he answered. "You can't sing a bit." For the first time I seemed
to realize how brutal it was of a man to speak to a woman like that, and I hated it.

Long afterwards, in the same city, I saw a man sitting calmly in a fiacre, a man of the "gentlemanly"
class, and ordering the cocher to drive on, although a woman was clinging to the side of the
carriage and refusing to let go. She was a strong, splendid creature of the peasant type, bareheaded,
with a fine open brow, and she was obviously consumed by resentment of some injustice--mad
with it. She was dragged along in one of the busiest streets in Paris, the little Frenchman
sitting there smiling, easy. How she escaped death I don't know. Then he became conscious that
people were looking, and he stopped the cab and let her get in. Oh, men!

Paris! Paris! Young as I was, I fell under the spell, of your elegance, your cleanness, your
well-designed streets, your nonchalant gaiety. I drank coffee at Tortoni's. I visited the studio
of Meissonier. I stood in the crowd that collected round Rosa Bonheur's "Horse Fair," which
was in the Salon that year. I grew dead sick of the endless galleries of the Louvre. I went
to the Madeleine at Easter time, all purple and white lilies, and fainted from trying to imagine
ecstasy when the Host was raised.... I never fainted again in my life, except once from anger,
when I heard some friends whom I loved slandering another friend whom I loved more.

Good-bye to Paris and back to London, where I began acting again with only half my heart. I
did very well, they said, as Helen in "The Hunchback," the first part I played after my return;
but I cared nothing about my success. I was feeling wretchedly ill, and angry too, because
they insisted on putting my married name on the bills.

After playing with Kate at Bristol and at the Adelphi in London, I accepted an engagement to
appear in a new play by Tom Taylor, called "The Antipodes." It was a bad play, and I had a
bad part, but Telbin's scenery was lovely. But I incline to the belief that, while undoubtedly
there may be great truth in the opinion, the spirit of liberty will overcome that danger. Hungary
and Hungary's chief city seem rapidly to be asserting control in their own affairs and an influence
in the Austro-Hungary Empire which no monarch will be able to withstand, and which it is quite
likely the royal family will not desire to withstand. In these days monarchs are learning the
love of liberty, and I believe in most cases to-day the reigning
sovereigns of Europe are eager to promote constitutional government,
and prefer the title of Liberator to that of Despot.

I have heard Wendell Phillips speak a great many times. I do not include him in this notice, because,
if I did, I ought to defend my estimate of him at considerable length, and to justify it by
ample quotation. I think him entitled to the very highest rank as an orator. I do not estimate
his moral character highly. I think he exerted very little influence on his generation, and
that the influence he did exert was in the main pernicious.

I have had copied everything he said, from the time he made his first speech, so far as it is
found in the newspapers, and have the volumes in which his speeches are collected. I never had
occasion to complain of him on my own account. So far as I know and believe, he had the kindliest
feeling for me until his death, and esteemed my public service much more highly than it deserved.
But he bitterly and unjustly attacked men whom I loved and honored under circumstances which
make it impossible for me to believe that his conduct was consistent with common honesty. He seemed
never to care for the soundness of his opinion before he uttered it, or for the truth of the
fact before he said it, if only he could produce a rhetorical effect.

He seemed to like to defame men whom the people loved and honored. Toward the latter part of
his life, he seemed to get desperate. If he failed to make an impression by argument, he took
to invective. If vinegar would not answer he resorted to cayenne
pepper.

If that failed, he tried to throw vitriol in the eyes of the men whom he hated. His remedy for
slavery was to destroy the country, and to leave the slave to the
unchecked will of the South.

During Lincoln's great trial, he attacked and vilified him.

At the time when nearly every household in the North was mourning
for its dead, he tried to persuade the people that Lincoln did not
mean to put down the Rebellion.

He never gave the people wise counsel, and rarely told them the honest truth. He rarely gave
his homage to anybody. When he did, it was to bad men, and not to
good men.

There can be no worse influence upon the youth of the Republic than that which shall induce them
to approve sentiments, not because they are true, but only because
they are eloquently said.

CHAPTER
XXXVI TRUSTS I have given the best study I could to the grave evil
of the accumulation in the country of vast fortunes in single hands,
or of vast properties in the hands of great corporations-- popularly
spoken of as trusts-- whose powers are wielded by one, or a few persons.

This is the most important question before the American people demanding solution in the immediate
future. A great many remedies have been proposed, some with sincerity
and some, I am afraid, merely for partisan ends. The difficulty is
increased by the fact that many of the evils caused by trusts, or
apprehended from them, can only be cured by the action of the States,
but cannot be reached by Congress, which can only deal with international
or interstate commerce.

As long ago as 1890 the people were becoming alarmed about this matter.
But the evil has increased rapidly during the last twelve years.

It is said that one man in this country has acquired a fortune of more than a thousand million
dollars by getting an advantage over other producers or dealers in a great necessary of life
in the rates at which the railroads transport his goods to market. In 1890 a bill was passed which
was called the Sherman Act, for no other reason I can think of except that Mr. Sherman had
nothing to do with framing it whatever. He introduced a bill and reported it from the Finance
Committee providing that whenever a trust, as it was called, dealt with an article protected
by the tariff, the article should be put on the free list. This was a crude, imperfect, and unjust
provision. It let in goods made abroad by a foreign trust to compete
with the honest domestic manufacturer.

If
there happened to be an industry employing thousands or hundreds of thousands of workmen, in
which thousands of millions of American capital was invested, and a few persons got up a trust-- perhaps
importers, for the very purpose of breaking down the American manufacturer--
and made the article to a very small extent, all honest manufacturers
would be deprived of their protection.

Mr. Sherman's bill found little favor with the Senate. It was referred to the Judiciary Committee of
which I was then a member. I drew as an amendment the present bill which I presented to the Committee.
There was a good deal of opposition to it in the Committee. Nearly every member had a plan of his own.
But at last the Committee came to my view and reported the law of
1890. The House disagreed to our bill and the matter went to a Conference
Committee, of which Mr. Edmunds, the Chairman of the Committee, and
I, as the member of the Committee who was the author of the bill,
were members.

The House finally came to our view.

It was expected that the Court, in administering that law, would
confine its operation to cases which are contrary to the policy of
the law, treating the words "agreements in restraint of trade," as
having a technical meaning, such as they are supposed to have in
England.

The Supreme Court of the United States went in this particular farther
than was expected.

In one case it held that "the bill comprehended every scheme that might be devised to restrain
trade or commerce among the several States or with foreign nations."

From this opinion several of the Court, including Mr. Justice Gray, dissented. It has not been
carried to its full extent since, and I think will never be held to prohibit the lawful and harmless
combinations which have been permitted in this country and in England without complaint, like contracts
of partnership which are usually considered harmless.

We thought it was best to use this general phrase which, as we thought,
had an accepted and well-known meaning in the English law, and then
after it had been construed by the Court, and a body of decisions
had grown up under the law, Congress would be able to make such further
amendments as might be found by experience necessary.

The statute has worked very well indeed, although the Court by one majority
and against the very earnest and emphatic dissent of some of its
greatest lawyers, declined to give a technical meaning to the phrase,
"in restraint of trade."

But the operation of the statute has been healthy. The Attorney-General has recently given an
account of suits in equity by which he had destroyed a good many vast combinations, including
a combination of the six largest meat-packing concerns in the country; a combination of railroads
which had been restrained from making any rebate or granting any preference whatever to any shipper;
and a pooling arrangement between the Southern railroads which denied the right of the shippers
interested in the cotton product in the South to prescribe the route over which their goods should
pass. He has also brought a suit in equity to prevent the operation of a proposed merger of sundry
transcontinental railroads, thereby breaking up a monopoly which affected the whole freight and
passenger traffic of the Northwest. The public uneasiness, however,
still continued.

The matter was very much discussed in the campaign for electing members of the House of Representatives
in the autumn of 1902. I made two or three careful speeches on the subject in Massachusetts, in which
I pointed out that the existing law, in general, was likely to be sufficient. I claimed, however,
further, that Congress had, in my opinion, the power of controlling the whole matter, by reason
of its right to prescribe terms on which any corporation, created by State authority or its own,
should engage in interstate or international commerce. It might provide as a condition for such
traffic by a corporation, that its officers or members should put on file an obligation to be personally
liable for the debts of the concern in case the conditions prescribed by Congress were not complied
with. The House of Representatives passed a very stringent bill known as the Littlefield Bill,
which was amended by the Judiciary Committee, of which I was the Chairman, by adding the provisions
of a bill which I had, myself, previously introduced, based on the
suggestions above stated.

But
there was a general feeling that the amendments to the existing law
proposed by the Administration were all that should be made at present.

These consisted in providing severe penalties for granting rebates by railroads to favored shippers; for
having suits under the existing law brought forward for prompt decision,
and for giving the new Department of Commerce large powers for the
examination of the conduct of the business of such corporations, and
to compel them to make such returns as should be thought desirable.

I should have preferred to have the bill I reported brought forward and discussed in the Senate,
although there was obviously no time, with the pressure of other business, to get it through.
But it was thought best by a majority of the Republicans not to take it up. Some of them thought
it was likely, if passed, to have a very serious and perhaps disastrous
effect on the country.

So far as I know, nobody in either House of Congress or in the press has pointed out why such a
result would be likely to follow. On the whole I was very well satisfied. The interests concerned
are vast. A rash or unskilful remedy might bring infinite trouble
or ruin to lawful business.

The work of restraining the trusts is going on very well under the
law of 1890. It is a matter which must be discussed and considered
by the American people for a great many years to come, and the evils
from the trusts at present are rather in anticipation than in reality.
So I am very well content, for the present, with what has been accomplished.

CHAPTER XXXVII RECOLLECTIONS OF THE WORCESTER BAR The Worcester Bar, when I came to it, was much like a
class of boys in college.

There was rivalry and sharp practice in some cases, and roughness of speech toward each other
and toward witnesses and parties. But in the main, the lawyers stood by one another and were ready
to help each other in trouble, and the lawyer's best and most trustworthy friends were his associates.
The Judge and the jurymen, and the lawyers from out of town used
to come into Worcester and stay at the old Sykes or Thomas Tavern,
opposite the court-house, and at another one known as the United States
Hotel, further south.

The
former was kept for a good many years by an old fellow named Sykes. He was a singular-looking
person-- a large head, stout body, rather protuberant belly, and short curved legs and very long
arms. He had large heavy eyebrows, a wide mouth and a curved nose and
sallow complexion looking a good deal like the caricatures of the
Jewish countenance in the comic newspapers.

He had two sons who looked very much like him and seemed about as old as their father. One day
the three were standing in front of his tavern when a countryman came along who undertook to stop
with his load at the front door of the tavern.

Sykes was standing there with his two sons, one on each side of him. He did not like to have the countryman
stop his load in that spot and called out to him rather roughly,
"Move along."

The fellow surveyed the group for a moment with an amused look and complied with the order, but shouted
out to the old man: "Wal, this is the fust time I ever saw three Jacks of Spades in one pack."
The Court sat till six o'clock and often far into the evening, and began at half-past eight or nine.
So there was no chance for the country lawyers to go home at night.

There was great fun at these old taverns in the evening and at meal
times.

They insisted generally, like Mrs. Battles in whist, on the rigor of the game, and the lawyer had
to look sharp after his pleadings or he found himself tripped up. The parties could not be witnesses,
nor could any person interested in the result of the trial. So many a good case, and many a good
defence failed for want of the legal evidence to make it out. But the whole Bar and the public
seemed to take an interest in important trials. People came in from the country round with their
covered wagons, simply for the pleasure of attending Court and seeing
the champions contend with each other.

The lawyers who were not engaged in the case were always ready to
help those who were with advice and suggestion.

It used to be expected that members of the Bar would be in the court-house
hearing the trials even if they were not engaged in them.

That was always an excuse for being absent from the office, and their
clients sought them at the court-house for consultation. I cannot
but think that the listening to the trial and argument of causes
by skilful advocates was a better law school than any we have now,
and that our young men, especially in the large cities, fail to become
good advocates and to learn the art of putting in a case, and of examining
and cross-examining witnesses, for want of a constant and faithful
attendance on the courts.

In those old times, our old lawyers, if Charles Lamb had known them and should paint them, would
make a set of portraits as interesting as his old Benchers of the Inner Temple. Old Calvin
Willard, many years sheriff of Worcester, would have delighted Elia. He did not keep the wig or the
queue or the small-clothes of our great-grandfathers, but he had their formal and ceremonial manners
in perfection. It was like a great State ceremonial to meet him and shake hands with him. He paused
for a moment, surveyed you carefully to be sure of the person, took
a little time for reflection to be sure there was nothing in the act
to compromise his dignity, and then slowly held out his hand.

But the grasp was a warm one, and the ceremony and the hand-shake conveyed his cordial respect and warmth
of regard. He always reminded me of the Englishman in Crabbe's "Tales"
who, I think, may have been his kinsman.

The wish that Roman necks in one were found That he who formed the wish might deal the wound, This
man had never heard. But of the kind Is the desire which rises in his
mind.

He'd have all English hands, for further he Cannot conceive extends our charity, All but his own,
in one right hand to grow; And then what hearty shake would he bestow. Mr. Willard was once counsel
before a magistrate in a case in which he took much interest. A rough, coarse country lawyer
was on the other side. When Willard stated some legal proposition, his adversary said: "I will
bet you five dollars that ain't law." "Sir," said Mr. Willard, drawing himself up to his full
height, with the great solemnity of tone of which he was master: "Sir, I do not permit myself to make
the laws of my country the subject of a bet." Another of the old characters who came down to my time
from the older generation was Samuel M. Burnside. He was a man of considerable wealth and lived
in a generous fashion, dispensing an ample hospitality at his handsome mansion, still standing
in Worcester. He was a good black-letter lawyer, though without much gift of influencing juries
or arguing questions of law to the Court. He was a good Latin scholar, very fond of Horace and
Virgil, and used to be on the committees to examine the students at
Harvard, rather disturbing the boys with his somewhat pedantic questioning.

He was very nearsighted, and, it is said, once seized the tail of
a cow which passed near him in the street and hurried forward, supposing
some woman had gone by and said, "Madam, you are dropping your tippet."

One of the most interesting characters among the elders of the Worcester Bar was old Rejoice Newton.
He was a man of excellent judgment, wisdom, integrity and law learning enough to make him
a safe guide to his clients in their important transactions. He was a most prosaic person, without
sentiment, without much knowledge of literature, and absolutely without humor. He was born in
Northfield near the banks of the Connecticut River and preserved to the time of his death his
love of rural scenes and of farming. He had an excellent farm a mile or two out of town, where he
spent all the time he could get from his professional duties. He was associated with Chief
Justice Shaw in some important cases, and always thought that it
was due to his recommendation that Governor Lincoln appointed the
Chief Justice-- a suggestion which Governor Lincoln used to repel
with great indignation.

The Governor was also a good farmer, especially proud of his cattle. Each of them liked to brag
of their crops and especially of the produce of their respective dairies. Governor Lincoln was
once discoursing to Devens and me, in our office, of a wonderful
cow of his which, beside raising an enormous calf, had produced the
cream for a great quantity of butter.

Mr. Devens said: "Why, that beats Major Newton's cow, that gave for months at a time some fifteen
or eighteen quarts at a milking." "If Brother Newton hears of my cow," said Governor Lincoln, "he
will at once double the number of quarts." The old Major was quite fond of telling stories, of which
the strong points were not apt to suffer in his narration.

One Fourth of July, when he had got to be an old man, he came down street and met a brother member
of the Bar, who took him up into the room of the Worcester Light
Infantry, a Company of which the Major's deceased son had long ago
been the Captain.

The members of the Company were spending the Fourth with a bowl of punch and other refreshments.
The Major was introduced and was received with great cordiality, and my friend left him there. The next
day my friend was going down street and met the Captain of the Light
Infantry, who said: "That was a very remarkable old gentleman you
brought into our room yesterday.

He stayed there all the forenoon, drinking punch and telling stories. He distinctly remembered
General Washington. He went home to dinner, came back after dinner, drank some more punch, and
remembered Christopher Columbus." The old Major was once addressing the Supreme Court and maintained
a doctrine which did not commend itself to Chief Justice Shaw. The
Chief Justice interposed: "Brother Newton, what is the use of arguing
that?

We have held otherwise in such a case (citing it) and again and again since." The Major paused,
drew his spectacles slowly off his nose, and said to the Court with
great seriousness: "May it please your Honors, I have a great respect
for the opinions of this Court, except in some very gross cases."

A man by the name of Lysander Spooner, whose misfortune it was to be a good deal in advance of his
age, the author of a very clever pamphlet maintaining the unconstitutionality of slavery, also published
some papers attacking the authenticity of Christian miracles.

In these days of Bob Ingersoll such views would be met with entire toleration,
but they shocked Major Newton exceedingly, as they did most persons
of his time.

Spooner studied for the Bar and applied to be admitted. He was able to
pass an examination. But the Major, as amicus curiae, addressed the
Court and insisted that Spooner was not a man of proper character,
and affirmed in support of his assertion that he was the author of
some blasphemous attacks on Christianity.

The result was that Spooner's application was denied. The Court adjourned
for dinner.

It was the day of the calling of the docket, and just before the
Judge came in in the afternoon, the whole Bar of Worcester County were
assembled, filling the room.

The Major sat in a seat near one of the doors. He had dined pretty
heavily, the day was hot and the Major was sleepy.

He tipped back a little in his chair, his head fell back between his
shoulders and his mouth opened, with his nose pointed toward the
zenith. I seized him by his horns to inflict severe punishment; but then I saw that his eyes
were exactly like mine, and it made me laugh so much that I let him go and never punished him
at all.

"Boo" became an institution in these days. She was the wife of a doctor who kept a private
asylum in the neighboring village, and on his death she tried to look after the lunatics herself.
But she wasn't at all successful! They kept escaping, and people didn't like it. This was my
gain, for "Boo" came to look after me instead, and for the next thirty years I was her only
lunatic, and she my most constant companion and dear and loyal friend.

We seldom went to London. When we did, Ted nearly had a fit at seeing so many "we'els go wound."
But we went to Normandy, and saw Lisieux, Mantes, Bayeux. Long afterwards, when I was feeling
as hard as sandpaper on the stage, I had only to recall some of the divine music I had heard
in those great churches abroad to become soft, melted, able to act. I remember in some cathedral
we left little Edy sitting down below while we climbed up into the clerestory to look at some
beautiful piece of architecture. The choir were practicing, and suddenly there rose a boy's
voice, pure, effortless, and clear.... For years that moment stayed with me. When we came down
to fetch Edy, she said:

"Ssh! ssh! Miss Edy has seen the angels!"

Oh, blissful quiet days! How soon they came to an end! Already the shadow of financial trouble
fell across my peace. Yet still I never thought of returning to the stage.

One day I was driving in a narrow lane, when the wheel of the pony-cart came off. I was standing
there, thinking what I should do next, when a whole crowd of horsemen in "pink" came leaping
over the hedge into the lane. One of them stopped and asked if he could do anything. Then he
looked hard at me and exclaimed: "Good God! it's Nelly!"

The man was Charles Reade.

"Where have you been all these years?" he said.

"I have been having a very happy time," I answered.

"Well, you've had it long enough. Come back to the stage!"

"No, never!"

"You're a fool! You ought to come back."

Suddenly I remembered the bailiff in the house a few miles away, and I said laughingly: "Well,
perhaps, I would think of it if some one would give me forty pounds a week!"

"Done!" said Charles Reade. "I'll give you that, and more, if you'll come and play Philippa
Chester in 'The Wandering Heir.'"

He went on to explain that Mrs. John Wood, who had been playing Philippa at the New Queen's,
of which he was the lessee, would have to relinquish the part soon, because she was under contract
to appear elsewhere. The piece was a great success, and promised to run a long time if he could
find a good Philippa to replace Mrs. Wood. It was a kind of Rosalind part, and Charles Reade
only exaggerated pardonably when he said that I should never have any part better suited to me!

In a very short time after that meeting in the lane, it was announced that the new Philippa
was to be an actress who was returning to the stage "after a long period of retirement." Only
just before the first night did anyone guess who it was, and then there was great excitement
among those who remembered me. The acclamation with which I was welcomed back on the first
night surprised me. The papers were more flattering than they had ever been before. It was
a tremendous success for me, and I was all the more pleased because I was following an accomplished
actress in the part.

It is curious how often I have "followed" others. I never "created" a part, as theatrical parlance
has it, until I played Olivia at the Court, and I had to challenge comparison, in turn, with
Miss Marie Wilton, Mrs. John Wood and Mrs. Kendal. Perhaps it was better for me than if I had
had parts specially written for me, and with which no other names were associated.

The hero of "The Wandering Heir," when I first took up the part of Philippa, was played by
Edmund Leathes, but afterward by Johnston Forbes-Robertson. Everyone knows how good-looking
he is now, but as a boy he was wonderful--a dreamy, poetic-looking creature in a blue smock,
far more of an artist than an actor--he promised to paint quite beautifully--and full of aspirations
and ideals. In those days began a friendship between us which has lasted unbroken until this
moment. His father and mother were delightful people, and very kind to me always.

Everyone was kind to me at this time. Friends whom I had thought would be estranged by my long
absence rallied round me and welcomed me as if it were six minutes instead of six years since
I had dropped out of their ken. I was not yet a "made" woman, but I had a profitable engagement,
and a delightful one, too, with Charles Reade, and I felt an enthusiasm for my work which had
been wholly absent when I had returned to the stage the first time. My children were left in
the country at first, but they came up and joined me when, in the year following "The Wandering
Heir," I went to the Bancrofts at the Prince of Wales's. I never had the slightest fear of
leaving them to their own devices, for they always knew how to amuse themselves, and were very
independent and dependable in spite of their extreme youth. I have often thanked Heaven since
that, with all their faults, my boy and girl have never been lazy and never dull. At this time
Teddy always had a pencil in his hand, when he wasn't looking for his biscuit--he was a greedy
little thing!--and Edy was hammering clothes onto her dolls with tin-tacks! Teddy said poetry
beautifully, and when he and his sister were still tiny mites, they used to go through scene
after scene of "As You Like It," for their own amusement, not for an audience, in the wilderness
at Hampton Court. They were by no means prodigies, but it did not surprise me that my son,
when he grew up, should be first a good actor, then an artist of some originality, and should
finally turn all his brains and industry to new developments in the art of the theater. My
daughter has acted also--not enough to please me, for I have a very firm belief in her talents--and
has shown again and again that she can design and make clothes for the stage that are both
lovely and effective. In all my most successful stage dresses lately she has had a hand, and
if I had anything to do with a national theater, I should, without prejudice, put her in charge
of the wardrobe at once!

I may be a proud parent, but I have always refrained from "pushing" my children. They have
had to fight for themselves, and to their mother their actual achievements have mattered very
little. So long as they were not lazy, I have always felt that I could forgive them anything!

And now Teddy and Edy--Teddy in a minute white piqué suit, and Edy in a tiny kimono, in which
she looked as Japanese as everything which surrounded her--disappear from these pages for quite
a long time. But all this time, you must understand, they are educating their mother!

Charles Reade, having brought me back to the stage, and being my manager into the bargain,
was deeply concerned about my progress as an actress. During the run of "The Wandering Heir"
he used to sit in a private box every night to watch the play, and would send me round notes
between the acts, telling me what I had done ill and what well in the preceding act. Dear,
kind, unjust, generous, cautious, impulsive, passionate, gentle Charles Reade. Never have I
known anyone who combined so many qualities, far asunder as the poles, in one single disposition.
He was placid and turbulent, yet always majestic. He was inexplicable and entirely lovable--a
stupid old dear, and as wise as Solomon! He seemed guileless, and yet had moments of suspicion
and craftiness worthy of the wisdom of the serpent. One moment he would call me "dearest child";
the next, with indignant emphasis, "Madam!"

When "The Wandering Heir" had at last exhausted its great popularity, I went on a tour with
Charles Reade in several of his plays. In spite of his many and varied interests, he had entirely
succumbed to the magic of the "irresistible theater," and it used to strike me as rather pathetic
to see a man of his power and originality working the stage sea at nights, in company with
a rough lad, in his dramatic version of "Hard Cash." In this play, which was known as "Our
Seaman," I had a part which I could not bear to be paid twenty-five pounds a week for acting.
I knew that the tour was not a financial success, and I ventured to suggest that it would be
good economy to get some one else for Susan Merton. For answer I got a fiery "Madam, you are
a rat! You desert a sinking ship!" My dear old companion, Boo, who was with me, resented this
very much: "How can you say such things to my Nelly?"

"Your Nelly!" said Charles Reade. "I love her a thousand times better than you do, or any puling
woman."

Another time he grew white with rage, and his dark eyes blazed, because the same "puling woman"
said very lightly and playfully: "Why did poor Nell come home from rehearsal looking so tired
yesterday? You work her too hard." He thought this unfair, as the work had to be done, and
flamed out at us with such violence that it was almost impossible to identify him with the
kind old gentleman of the Colonel Newcome type whom I had seen stand up at the Tom Taylors',
on Sunday evenings, and sing "The Girl I Left Behind Me" with such pathos that he himself was
moved to tears. But, though it was a painful time for both of us, it was almost worth while
to quarrel with him, because when we made it up he was sure to give me some "treat"--a luncheon,
a present, or a drive. We both felt we needed some jollification because we had suffered so
much from being estranged. He used to say that there should be no such word as "quarrel," and
one morning he wrote me a letter with the following postscript written in big letters:

     "THERE DO EXIST SUCH THINGS AS HONEST MISUNDERSTANDINGS.

     "There, my Eleanora Delicia" (this was his name for me, my real,
     full name being Ellen Alicia), "stick that up in some place where
     you will often see it. Better put it on your looking-glass. And
     if you can once get those words into your noddle, it will save you
     a world of unhappiness."

I think he was quite right about this. Would that he had been as right in his theories about
stage management! He was a rare one for realism. He had preached it in all his plays, and when
he produced a one-act play, "Rachael the Reaper," in front of "The Wandering Heir," he began
to practice what he preached--jumped into reality up to the neck!

He began by buying real pigs, real sheep, a real goat, and a real dog. Real litter was strewn
all over the stage, much to the inconvenience of the unreal farm-laborer, Charles Kelly, who
could not compete with it, although he looked as like a farmer as any actor could. They all
looked their parts better than the real wall which ran across the stage, piteously naked of
real shadows, owing to the absence of the real sun, and, of course, deficient in the painted
shadows which make a painted wall look so like the real thing.

Never, never can I forget Charles Reade's arrival at the theater in a four-wheeler with a goat
and a lot of little pigs. When the cab drew up at the stage-door, the goat seemed to say, as
plainly as any goat could: "I'm dashed if I stay in this cab any longer with these pigs!" and
while Charles Reade was trying to pacify it, the piggies escaped! Unfortunately, they didn't
all go in the same direction, and poor dear Charles Reade had a "divided duty." There was the
goat, too, in a nasty mood. Oh, his serious face, as he decided to leave the goat and run for
the pigs, with his loose trousers, each one a yard wide at least, flapping in the wind!

"That's a relief, at any rate," said Charles Kelly, who was watching the flight of the pigs.
"I sha'n't have those d----d pigs to spoil my acting as well as the d----d dog and the d----d
goat!"

How we all laughed when Charles Reade returned from the pig-hunt to rehearsal with the brief
direction to the stage manager that the pigs would be "cut out."

The reason for the real wall was made more evident when the real goat was tied up to it. A
painted wall would never have stood such a strain.

On the first night, the real dog bit Kelly's real ankles, and in real anger he kicked the real
animal by a real mistake into the orchestra's real drum.

So much for realism as practiced by Charles Reade! There was still something to remind him
of the experiment in Rachael, the circus goat. Rachael--he was no she, but what of that?--was
given the free run of the garden of Reade's house at Knightsbridge. He had everything that
any normal goat could desire--a rustic stable, a green lawn, the best of food. Yet Rachael
pined and grew thinner and thinner. One night when we were all sitting at dinner, with the
French windows open onto the lawn because it was a hot night, Rachael came prancing into the
room, looking happy, lively, and quite at home. All the time, while Charles Reade had been
fashing himself to provide every sort of rural joy for his goat, the ungrateful beast had been
longing for the naphtha lights of the circus, for lively conversation and the applause of the
crowd.

You can't force a goat any more than you can force a child to live the simple life. "N'Yawk's
the place," said the child of a Bowery tenement in New York, on the night of her return from
an enforced sojourn in Arcady. She hated picking daisies, and drinking rich new milk made her
sick. When the kind teacher who had brought her to the country strove to impress her by taking
her to see a cow milked, she remarked witheringly to the man who was milking: "Gee! You put it in!"

Rachael's sentiments were of the same type, I think. "Back to the circus!" was his cry, not
"Back to the land!"

I hope, when he felt the sawdust under his feet again (I think Charles Reade sent him back
to the ring), he remembered his late master with gratitude. So we walked together about a mile.
He talked all the way about the next nomination for the Presidency; about the prospects of
the various candidates, and the probability of the success of the
Democratic Party if they had a candidate who would be satisfactory
to the Republicans who were disaffected with the present policies.

It was evident that his great man had this subject, to use a cant
phrase, "on the brain."

This was before the Chief Justice had his paralytic shock.

He was in the full vigor of health, a model of manly strength and
manly beauty, giving every evidence that his great intellectual power
was undiminished.

Not long afterward a friend of mine went to Ohio with his wife. In those days it was necessary
for persons going from Washington to the Northwest to cross Baltimore in a carriage-- the Washington
station and the Ohio station being in different parts of the city.

A friend of my friend went to Baltimore to see his wife, who was going to Ohio, across the
city and then to return to Washington. He knew Chief Justice Chase.

He introduced him to my friend on the cars, and they rode across Baltimore in one carriage, the
two gentlemen, the Chief Justice, and the wife. The Chief Justice talked to him whom he had
just met for the first time during the whole ride of half an hour on the same engrossing subject,
as he had to me before.

I think there can be no doubt that Chief Justice Chase, like many other great men, was consumed by
an eager and passionate ambition for the Presidency. On the other
hand, it is of little use to take criticism in a slavish spirit and to act on it without understanding
it. Charles Reade constantly wrote and said things to me which were not absolutely just criticism;
but they directed my attention to the true cause of the faults which he found in my performance,
and put me on the way to mending them.

A letter which he wrote me during the run of "The Wandering Heir" was such a wonderful lesson
to me that I am going to quote it almost in full, in the hope that it may be a lesson to other
actresses--"happy in this, they are not yet so old but they can learn"; unhappy in this, that
they have never had a Charles Reade to give them a trouncing!

Well, the letter begins with sheer eulogy. Eulogy is nice, but one does not learn anything
from it. "To conclude, let us study so to walk, that this may be our excellency and dignity among
the Nations of the world, among which we live; That they may be constrained to say of us, onely
this people is wise, an holy and blessed people: that all that see us, may see and know that
the name of the Lord is called upon us: and that we are the seed
which the Lord hath blessed.

Deut. 28. 10 Esay. 61. 9.

     There is no people but will strive to excell in something: what can
     we excell in if not in holinesse? If we look to number, we are the
     fewest; If to strength, we are the weakest; If to wealth and riches,
     we are the poorest of all the people of God throughout the
     whole world, we cannot excell (nor so much as equall) other people
     in these things; and if we come short in grace and holiness
     too, we are the most despicable people under heaven; our worldy
     dignitie is gone, if we lose the glory of grace too, then
     is the glory wholly departed from our Israel, and we are become vile;
     strive we therefore herein to excell, and suffer not this crown
     to be taken away from us: Be we a holy people, so shall we be honorable
     before God and precious in the eyes of his Saints."

     
     To these eminent Concord authors should be added the name of William
     S. Robinson. He was one of the brightest and wittiest men of his
     time. He very seldom had praise for anybody, although for a few of
his old Anti-Slavery friends he had a huge liking. When I was a little
boy he was in a newspaper office in Concord, where he got most of
his education.

Except in the actual word used, he was perfectly right. I was not limp, but I was exhausted.
By a natural instinct, I had produced my voice scientifically almost from the first, and I
had found out for myself many things, which in these days of Delsarte systems and the science
of voice-production, are taught. But when, after my six years' absence from the stage, I came
back, and played a long and arduous part, I found that my breathing was still not right. This
accounted for my exhaustion, or limpness and lack of vigor, as Charles Reade preferred to call it.

As for the "ardent" exits, how right he was! That word set me on the track of learning the
value of moving off the stage with a swift rush. I had always had the gift of being rapid in
movement, but to have a gift, and to use it, are two very different things.

I never realized that I was rather quick in movement until one day when I was sitting on a
sofa talking to the famous throat specialist, Dr. Morell Mackenzie. In the middle of one of
his sentences I said: "Wait a minute while I get a glass of water." I was out of the room and
back so soon that he said, "Well, go and get it then!" and was paralyzed when he saw that the
glass was in my hand and that I was sitting down again!

Consider! That was one of Charles Reade's favorite expressions, and just hearing him say the
word used to make me consider, and think, and come to conclusions--perhaps not always the conclusions
that he wished, but suggested by him.

In this matter of "ardent" exit, he wrote:

     "The swift rush of the words, the personal rush, should carry you
     off the stage. It is in reality as easy as shelling peas, if you
     will only go by the right method instead of by the wrong. You have
     overcome far greater difficulties than this, yet night after night
     you go on suffering ignoble defeat at this point. Come, courage!
     You took a leaf out of Reade's dictionary at Manchester, and
     trampled on two difficulties--impossibilities, you called them.
     That was on Saturday, Monday you knocked the poor impossibilities
     down. Tuesday you kicked them where they lay. Wednesday you walked
     placidly over their prostrate bodies!"

The difficulty that he was now urging me to knock down was one of pace, and I am afraid that
in all my stage life subsequently I never quite succeeded in kicking it or walking over its
prostrate body!

Looking backward, I remember many times when I failed in rapidity of utterance, and was "pumped"
at moments when swiftness was essential. Pace is the soul of comedy, and to elaborate lines
at the expense of pace is disastrous. Curiously enough, I have met and envied this gift of
pace in actors who were not conspicuously talented in other respects, and no Rosalind that
I have ever seen has had enough of it. Of course, it is not a question of swift utterance only,
but of swift thinking. I am able to think more swiftly on the stage now than at the time Charles
Reade wrote to me, and I only wish I were young enough to take advantage of it. But youth thinks
slowly, as a rule.

Vary the pace. Charles Reade was never tired of saying this, and, indeed, it is one of the
foundations of all good acting.

     "You don't seem quite to realize," he writes in the letter before
     me, "that uniformity of pace leads inevitably to languor. You
     should deliver a pistol-shot or two. Remember Philippa is a fiery
     girl; she can snap. If only for variety, she should snap James'
     head off when she says, 'Do I speak as if I loved them!'"

My memories of the part of Philippa are rather vague, but I know that Reade was right in insisting
that I needed more "bite" in the passages when I was dressed as a boy. Though he complimented
me on my self-denial in making what he called "some sacrifice of beauty" to pass for a boy,
"so that the audience can't say, 'Why, James must be a fool not to see she is a girl,'" he
scolded me for my want of bluntness.

     "Fix your mind on the adjective 'blunt' and the substantive
     'pistol-shot'; they will do you good service."

They did! And I recommend them to anyone who finds it hard to overcome monotony of pace and
languor of diction.

     "When you come to tell old Surefoot about his daughter's love," the
     letter goes on, "you should fall into a positive imitation of his
     manner: crest, motionless, and hands in front, and deliver your
     preambles with a nasal twang. But at the second invitation to
     speak out, you should cast this to the winds, and go into the other
     extreme of bluntness and rapidity. [Quite right!] When you meet
     him after the exposure, you should speak as you are coming to him
     and stop him in mid-career, and then attack him. You should also
     (in Act II.) get the pearls back into the tree before you say: 'Oh,
     I hope he did not see me!'"

Yes, I remember that in both these places I used to muddle and blur the effect by doing the
business and speaking at the same time. By acting on Reade's suggestion I gained confidence
in making a pause.

     "After the beating, wait at least ten seconds longer than you
     do--to rouse expectation--and when you do come on, make a little
     more of it. You ought to be very pale indeed--even to enter with a
     slight totter, done moderately, of course; and before you say a
     single word, you ought to stand shaking and with your brows
     knitting, looking almost terrible. Of course, I do not expect or
     desire to make a melodramatic actress of you, but still I think you
     capable of any effect, provided it is not sustained too long."

A truer word was never spoken. It has never been in my power to sustain. In private life, I
cannot sustain a hatred or a resentment. On the stage, I can pass swiftly from one effect to
another, but I cannot fix one, and dwell on it, with that superb concentration which seems
to me the special attribute of the tragic actress. To sustain, with me, is to lose the impression
that I have created, not to increase its intensity.

     "The last passage of the third act is just a little too hurried.
     Break the line. 'Now, James--for England and liberty!'"

I remember that I never could see that he was right about that, and if I can't see a thing
I can't do it. The author's idea must become mine before I can carry it out--at least, with
any sincerity, and obedience without sincerity would be of small service to an author. It must
be despairing to him, if he wants me to say a line in a certain way, to find that I always
say it in another; but I can't help it. I have tried to act passages as I have been told, just
because I was told and without conviction, and I have failed miserably and have had to go back
to my own way.

     "Climax is reached not only by rush but by increasing pace. Your
     exit speech is a failure at present, because you do not vary the
     pace of its delivery. Get by yourself for one half-hour--if you
     can! Get by the seaside, if you can, since there it was Demosthenes
     studied eloquence and overcame mountains--not mole-hills like this.
     Being by the seaside, study those lines by themselves: 'And then
     let them find their young gentleman, and find him quickly, for
     London shall not hold me long--no, nor England either.'

     "Study to speak these lines with great volubility and fire, and
     settle the exact syllable to run at."

I remember that Reade, with characteristic generosity, gave me ten pounds and sent me to the
seaside in earnest, as he suggests my doing, half in fun, in the letter. "I know you won't
go otherwise," he said, "because you want to insure your life or do something of that sort.
Here! go to Brighton--go anywhere by the sea for Sunday! Don't thank me! It's all for Philippa."

As I read these notes of his on anti-climax, monotony of pace, and all the other offenses against
scientific principles of acting which I committed in this one part, I feel more strongly than
ever how important it is to master these principles. Until you have learned them and practiced
them you cannot afford to discard them. There is all the difference in the world between departure
from recognized rules by one who has learned to obey them, and neglect of them through want
of training or want of skill or want of understanding. Before you can be eccentric you must
know where the circle is.

This is accepted, I am told, even in shorthand, where the pupil acquires the knowledge of a
number of signs, only for the purpose of discarding them when he is proficient enough to make
an individual system. It is also accepted in music, where only the advanced pianist or singer
can afford to play tricks with tempo. And I am sure it should be accepted in acting.

Nowadays acting is less scientific (except in the matter of voice-production) than it was when
I was receiving hints, cautions, and advice from my two dramatist friends, Charles Reade and
Tom Taylor; and the leading principles to which they attached importance have come to be regarded
as old-fashioned and superfluous. This attitude is comparatively harmless in the interpretation
of those modern plays in which parts are made to fit the actors and personality is everything.
But those who have been led to believe that they can make their own rules find their mistake
when they come to tackle Shakespeare or any of the standard dramatists in which the actors
have to fit themselves to the parts. Then, if ever, technique is avenged!

When it comes to pointing out an example, Henry Irving is the monument, the great mark set
up to show the genius of will. For years he worked to overcome the dragging leg, which seemed
to attract more attention from some small-minded critics (sharp of eye, yet how dull of vision!)
than all the mental splendor of his impersonations. He toiled, and he overcame this defect,
just as he overcame his disregard of the vowels and the self-consciousness which in the early
stages of his career used to hamper and incommode him. His self was to him on a first night
what the shell is to a lobster on dry land. In "Hamlet," when we first acted together after
that long-ago Katherine and Petruchio period at the Queen's, he used to discuss with me the
secret of my freedom from self-consciousness; and I suggested a more swift entrance on the
stage from the dressing-room. I told him that, in spite of the advantage in ease which I had
gained through having been on the stage when still a mere child, I should be paralyzed with
fright from over-acute realization of the audience if I stood at the wing for ten minutes,
as he was in the habit of doing. He did not need me then, nor during the run of our next play,
"The Lady of Lyons"; but when it came to Shylock, a quite new part to him, he tried the experiment,
and, as he told me, with great comfort to himself and success with the audience.

Only a great actor finds the difficulties of the actor's art infinite. He has gone to make acquaintance
with the real, the good, the divine, and to find mates and co-operators such as we could not
offer him.

"Charles Emerson entered with zeal and sympathy into the daily life of the people of Concord.
He delivered a few lectures, which were quite celebrated.

Some of his manuscripts are in existence, and there is a boyish essay or two in the Harvard Magazine,
one on Conversation and one on Friendship, which show a singular charm and simplicity of style.
He wrote the epitaph on the tomb of Professor Ashmun at Mount Auburn, and a tribute to his
friend, James Jackson, Jr., which is preserved in Jackson's memoir
by his father.

Miss Martineau, in a chapter of her autobiography written in 1836,
describes the feeling in Boston in regard to the opposition to slavery,
which seems now incredible even to those who remember it.

She says:" The Emersons, for the adored Charles Emerson was living
then, were not men to join an association for any object.... But at
the time of the hubbub against me in Boston, Charles Emerson stood
alone of a large company in defence of free thought and speech, and
declared that he had rather see Boston in ashes than that I or anybody
should be debarred in any way from perfectly free speech.

"Robert C. Winthrop, who was Charles Emerson's intimate
friend in boyhood, wrote for the Advertizer a beautiful obituary
notice.

He says:" Emerson was eminently a man of genius. We know not that in his riper years he ever wrote
a line of poetry, but no one could have listened to him, either in private or public without feeling
that he had a poet's power; while his prose composition was of so
pure and finished a style as to show plainly that close perusal of
the English Classics in which he so much delighted.... One opinion
which Mr. Emerson had early formed, and which had he been spared to
mature life might have contributed much to his eminence may, in the
sad event which has occurred, have contracted the circle of his fame....
He had formed in his own mind a standard of education far beyond that
which can be completed, even by the most faithful application, within
the ordinary rounds of school and college-- an education in which
every man must be mainly his own master.

In the work of this enlarged self-education he was engaged, and, until it was finished, he shrunk from
the appearance of attempting to instruct others. He had in him all the elements which would
have insured the success of early efforts at display-- a fluent speech, a fine elocution, quick
conception, a brilliant fancy. But his ambition,... while it aspired to a lofty eminence, was
content to see that eminence still in the distance. "Mr. Winthrop adds," Principle, unyielding and
uncompromising principle, was the very breath of his soul, and pervaded and animated his whole
intellectual system.... He openly professed what he believed, and
he acted up to his professions. He not only held conscience the guide
of his life, but he took care to school and discipline that conscience
so that its dictates should always conform to truth, to duty, to the
laws of God.

He was an honorable, high-minded, virtuous man-- a sincere and devout Christian.... He has fallen
at the very gate of an honorable and eminent career, and a thousand hopes are buried in his
grave. "A few years before Mr. Winthrop died I met him in Cambridge, at the Peabody Museum, of
which we were both trustees. The trustees were gathered in their room
waiting for the meeting to be called to order.

Mr. Winthrop was talking about his college days. I asked him how it happened that there were so many
distinguished persons, in various departments of excellence, who were graduated from Harvard
about his time, in his class and in the few classes following and preceding. I said that sometimes
there would be several orators, or eminent men of science, or eminent classical scholars, or
eminent teachers, graduated about the same time, and their excellence would be attributed to some
one instructor; but that in his time there seemed to be a crop of
great men in all departments of life-- in natural history, in the
pulpit, the bar, in oratory, in literature, and in public life.

Mr. Winthrop rose to his feet from this chair and brought his hand down with great emphasis
on the table as he answered:" It was the influence of Charles Emerson, Sir. "Charles Emerson
delivered just before his death a very beautiful and impressive lecture on Socrates. It was
long remembered by the people of Concord. It is said that they who heard it never forgot his
beautiful figure and glowing countenance as he ended a passage of
great eloquence at the close of the lecture with the words," God for
thee has done His part.

Do thine. "Mr. Hawthorne had published some short stories which had already made his name quite
celebrated, but his great fame was still to be gained. He was poor and had a good deal of
difficulty in gaining a decent living for himself and his young wife. I will not undertake to
repeat the story of his life which Hawthorne has told so beautifully in his" Mosses from an Old Manse.
"I knew Mrs. Hawthorne very well indeed. She was a great friend of my oldest sister and used to
visit my father's house when I was a boy, before she was married. It was owing to that circumstance that
the Hawthornes came to live in Concord. She was quite fond of me. I used to get strawberries
and wild flowers for her, and she did me great honor to draw my portrait,
which now, fortunately or unfortunately, is lost. I went up to the
house while they were absent on their wedding journey when I was
a boy of fourteen or fifteen to help put things in order for the reception
of the young couple.

The furniture was very cheap; a good deal of it was made of common maple. But Mrs. Hawthorne,
who was an artist, had decorated it by drawings and paintings on
the backs of the chairs and on the bureaus and bedsteads.

On the headboard of her bed was a beautiful copy, painted by herself, of Guido's Aurora, with its exquisite
light figures and horses and youths and maidens flying through the
air.

I never knew Hawthorne except as a stately figure, whom I saw sometimes
in Concord streets and sometimes in his own home. He rarely, if ever,
opened his lips in my hearing.

He was always very silent,
hardly spoke in the presence of any visitor with whom he was not
very intimate.

So far as I know he never visited at the houses of his neighbors
and never went to town-meeting.

The latter was a deadly sin in the eyes of his democratic neighbors.
Mr. Emerson induced him, one evening, to be one of a small company
at his house.

But Hawthorne kept silent and at last went to the window and looked out at the stars. One of the ladies
said to the person next her:" How well he rides his horses of the night. "He was very fond of long
walks, and of rowing on the river with Thoreau and Ellery Channing. The Old Manse was built in 1759
by the Rev. Daniel Bliss for his daughter Phoebe on her marriage to
the Rev. William Emerson.

She was grandmother of Waldo Emerson. Her second husband was the Rev. Dr. Ripley. I knew Henry Thoreau
very intimately. I went to school with him when I was a little boy and he was a big one. Afterward
I was a scholar in his school. He was very fond of small boys, and used to take them out with
him in his boat, and make bows and arrows for them, and take part in their games. He liked also to get
a number of the little chaps of a Saturday afternoon and take them
out in his boat, or for a long walk in the woods.

He knew the best places to find huckleberries and blackberries and chestnuts and lilies and cardinal
and other rare flowers. We used to call him Trainer Thoreau, because
the boys called the soldiers the" trainers, "and he had a long, measured
stride and an erect carriage which made him seem something like a
soldier, although he was short and rather ungainly in figure.

He had a curved nose which reminded one a little of the beak of a parrot. His real name was David
Henry Thoreau, although he changed the order of his first two names
afterward.

He was a great finder of Indian arrow-heads, spear-heads, pestles, and
other stone implements which the Indians had left behind them, of
which there was great abundance in the Concord fields and meadows.

He knew the rare forest birds and all the ways of birds and wild animals. Naturalists commonly
know birds and beasts and wild flowers as a surgeon who has dissected the human body, or perhaps sometimes
a painter who has made pictures of them knows men and women.

But he knew birds and beasts as one boy knows another-- all their
delightful little habits and fashions.

He had the most wonderful good fortune. We used to say that if anything happened in the deep woods
which only came about once in a hundred years, Henry Thoreau would be sure to be on the spot at
the time and know the whole story. It seemed that Nature could not raise A plant in any secret place,
In quaking bog or snowy hill, Beneath the grass that shades the rill,
Under the snow, between the rocks, In damp fields known to bird and
fox, But he would come in the very hour It opened in its virgin bower,
As if a sunbeam showed the place, And tell its long-descended race.

It seemed as if the breezes brought him; It seemed as if the sparrows taught him; As if by secret
sight he knew Where, in the far fields, the orchis grew. Many haps fall in the field Seldom seen
by wishful eyes, But all her shows did Nature yield, To please and
win this pilgrim wise.

These lines fit Henry Thoreau exactly.

Most people think Emerson had him in mind when he wrote them. But
as a matter of fact, they were written before he knew Henry Thoreau.

I wonder how many know the woodcock's evening hymn.

I have known many sportsmen and naturalists who never heard it or heard of it. When the female is
on her nest the male woodcock flies straight up into the sky, folds
his wings and falls down through the air, coming down within a foot
or two of the nest from which he ascended, pouring out a beautiful
song, which he never sings at any other time.

He is said to be one of the best and sweetest of our song birds. It is a singular fact that
Emerson did not know Henry Thoreau until after Thoreau had been some
years out of college.

Henry walked to Boston, eighteen miles, to hear one of Emerson's lectures, and walked home again in
the night after the lecture was over. Emerson heard of it, and invited him to come to his house and
hear the lectures read there, which he did. People used to say that Thoreau imitated Emerson,
and Lowell has made this charge in his satire," A Fable for Critics "; There comes----, for instance;
to see him's rare sport, Tread in Emerson's tracks with legs painfully
short.

    I think there is nothing in it.
    Thoreau's style is certainly fresh and original. His tastes and thoughts
are his own.

His peculiarities of bearing and behavior came to him naturally from his ancestors of the isle of Guernsey.
I retained his friendship to his death. I have taken many a long walk with him. I used to
go down to see him in the winter days in my vacations in his hut
near Walden.

He was capital company. He was a capital guide in the wood. He liked to take out the boys in his
boat. He was fond of discoursing. I do not think he was vain. But he liked to do his thinking out
loud, and expected that you should be an auditor rather than a companion. I have heard Thoreau
say in private a good many things which afterward appeared in his writings. One day when we
were walking, he leaned his back against a rail fence and discoursed of the shortness of the
time since the date fixed for the creation, measured by human lives." Why, "he said," sixty old women
like Nabby Kettle "(a very old woman in Concord)," taking hold of
hands, would span the whole of it.

"He repeats this in one of his books, adding," They would be but a small tea-party, but their gossip
would make universal history. "Another man who was famous as a writer went to school and afterward
tended store in Concord in my childhood. This was George H. Derby, better known as John Phoenix.
He was also very fond of small boys.

I remember his making me what I thought a wonderful and beautiful work of art, by taking a sheet of stiff
paper of what was called elephant foolscap, and folding it into a very small square, and then
with a penknife cutting out small figures of birds and beasts.

When the sheet was opened again these were repeated all over the sheet, and made it appear like
a piece of handsome lace. He did not get along very well with his
employer, who was a snug and avaricious person.

He would go to Boston once a week to make his purchases, leaving Derby in charge of the store.
Derby would lie down at full length on the counter, get a novel, and was then very unwilling to be
disturbed to wait on customers. If a little girl came in with a tin kettle to get some molasses,
he would say the molasses was all out, and they would have some more next week. So the employer
found that some of his customers were a good deal annoyed.

Another rather famous writer who lived in Concord in my time was Mr. A. Bronson Alcott. He used
to talk to the children in the Sunday-school, and occasionally would gather them together in the
evening for a long discourse. I am ashamed to say that we thought
Mr. Alcott rather stupid.

He did not make any converts to his theories among the boys. He once told us that it was wicked to
eat animal food; that the animal had the same right to his life that we had to ours, and we
had no right to destroy the lives of any of God's creatures for our
own purposes.

He lived only on vegetable food,
as he told us. But he had on at the time a very comfortable pair of calfskin
boots, and the boys could not reconcile his notion that it was wicked
to kill animals to eat, with killing animals that he might wear their
hides.

When such inconsistencies were pointed out to him he gave a look of mild rebuke at the audacious offender,
and went on with his discourse as if nothing had happened.

The people who do not think very much of Alcott ought to speak with a god deal of modesty when they
remember how highly Emerson valued him, and how sure was Emerson's
judgment; but certainly nobody will attribute to Alcott much of the
logical faculty.

Emerson told me once:" I got together some people a little while ago to meet Alcott and hear him
converse. I wanted them to know what a rare fellow he was. But we did not get along very well.
Poor Alcott had a hard time. Theodore Parker came all stuck full of knives. He wound himself
round Alcott like an anaconda; you could hear poor Alcott's bones crunch. "Margaret Fuller used to
visit Concord a good deal, and at one time boarded in the village
for several months.

She was very peculiar in her ways, and made people whom she did not like
feel very uncomfortable in her presence.

She was not generally popular, although the persons who knew her best valued her genius highly.
But old Doctor Bartlett, a very excellent and kind old doctor, though rather gruff in manner,
could not abide her. About midnight one very dark, stormy night the doctor was called out of
bed by a sharp knocking at the door.

He got up and put his head out of the window, and said," Who's there? What do you want? "He
was answered by a voice in the darkness below," Doctor, how much
camphire can anybody take by mistake without its killing them?

"To which the reply was," Who's taken it? "And the answer was" Margaret
Fuller.

"The doctor answered in great wrath, as he slammed down the window, and returned to bed:" A
peck. "William Ellery Channing, the poet, was a constant visitor of my sister, and later of
my brother Edward. He was a moody and solitary person, except in the company of a few close
friends who testified to the charming and delightful quality of his companionship. I suppose his
poems will outlast a great many greater reputations. But they will
always find very few readers in any generation.

Channing visited my elder sister almost every day or evening for a good while, but rarely remained
more than two or three minutes if he found anybody else in the room. George William Curtis, afterward
the famous orator, and his brother, Burrill, occupied for a year
or two a small farmhouse or hut, with one or two rooms in it, in
Concord, on the Lincoln road.

They had been at Brook Farm and came to Concord, I suppose attracted by Emerson. They came
to my father's house during their stay there every afternoon, and
their call was as much a regular incident of the day as any stated
meal.

Each of them was a boy of a very pleasant and delightful nature.

I think if George Curtis had dwelt almost anywhere but in New York city, he would have been a very
powerful influence in the public life of his generation. But he did not find any congenial associates
in the men in New York who had any capacity to effect much good.

His pure and lofty counsel fell unheeded upon the ears of his near neighbors, and the people
of Massachusetts did not listen very patiently to lectures on political
purity or reform in civil service from New York city.

I never maintained any considerable intimacy with Curtis, although I have a few letters from him, expressing
his regard for some of my kindred or his interest and sympathy in something I had said or done.
These I value exceedingly. One of the very last articles he wrote for Harper's Weekly, written
just before his death, contains a far too kind estimate of my public service.
The Concord quality has come down with its people from the first settlement.
The town was founded by Peter Bulkeley.

He was a clergyman at Odell in Bedfordshire, where the church over which he was settled is still
standing.

He was a gentleman of good family and of a considerable estate which he spent for the benefit
of the people whom he led into the wilderness. He encountered the hostility of Laud and, to use
the phrase of that time, was" silenced for non-conformity.

"With Major Simon Willard, he made a bargain with the Indians, just
to both parties, and with which both parties were perfectly satisfied,
which rendered the name of Concord so appropriate, although in fact
the name was given to the settlement before the company left Boston.

That pulpit was occupied by Bulkeley and his descendants either by blood or marriage, from 1635
to 1696; from 1738 to 1841; and from 1882 to 1893. I was able some forty years ago to settle
in Concord a matter which had puzzled English historians, as to the legitimacy of the famous statesman
and Chief Justice, Oliver St. John. Lord Campbell, in his"

Lives of the Chief Justices, "says:" It is a curious circumstance
that there should be a dispute about the parentage of such a distinguished
individual, who flourished so recently.

Lord Clarendon, who knew him intimately from his youth, who practised with him in the Court of King's
Bench, who sat in the House of Commons with him, and who was both associated with him and opposed
to him in party strife, repeatedly represents him as illegitimate; and states that he was'a natural
son of the house of Bolingbroke.'Lord Bacon's account of his origin
is equivocal-- calling him'a gentleman as it seems of an ancient house
and name.'By genealogists and heralds a legitimate pedigree is assigned
to him, deducing his descent in the right male line from William St.
John, who came in with the Conqueror; but some of them describe him
as the son of Sir John St. John, of Lydiard Tregose in Wiltshire,
and others as the son of Oliver St. John of Cagshoe in Bedfordshire,
and they differ equally respecting his mother.

Lord Clarendon could hardly be mistaken on such a point, and I cannot
help suspecting that the contrary assertions proceed from a desire
to remove the bar sinister from the shield of a Chief Justice.

"Lord Campbell has had diligent search made in the archives of Oxford and Lincoln's Inn, but does
not find anything to change his opinion. Fortunately we are able to settle the question about
which Lord Campbell and Lord Bacon and Lord Clarendon were misled,
in Old Concord.

Peter Bulkeley was the uncle of Oliver St. John.

He speaks of him in his will, and leaves him his Bible.

Bulkeley's
Gospel-Covenant, a book the substance of which was originally preached to his congregation, is
dedicated to Oliver St. John. In the Epistle Dedicatory, he speaks of the pious and godly lives
of St. John's parents, and alludes to the dying words of St. John's father as something which
he and St. John had heard, but which was not known to other men."
I speak a mystery to others but not unto your Lordship.

"So it is
quite clear that St. John could not have been born out of wedlock, and the son of a man who had
seduced the sister of this eminent and pious clergyman.

In Noble's" Memoirs of the Cromwell Family, "published about seventy-five years after the death
of St. John, he is said to be the son of Oliver St. John of Cagshoe
in Bedfordshire.

Tom Taylor, like Charles Reade, never hesitated to speak plainly to me about my acting, and,
after the first night of "Money," wrote me a letter full of hints and caution and advice:

"As I expected, you put feeling into every situation which gave you the opportunity, and the
truth of your intention and expression seemed to bring a note of nature into the horribly sophisticated
atmosphere of that hollow and most claptrappy of all Bulwerian stage offenses. Nothing could
be better than the appeal to Evelyn in the last act. It was sweet, womanly and earnest, and
rang true in every note.

"But you were nervous and uncomfortable in many parts for want of sufficient rehearsal. These
passages you will, no doubt, improve in nightly. I would only urge on you the great importance
of studying to be quiet and composed, and not fidgeting. There was especially a trick of constantly
twiddling with and looking at your fingers which you should, above all, be on your guard against....
I think, too, you showed too evident feeling in the earlier scene with Evelyn. A blind man
must have read what you felt--your sentiment should be more masked.

"Laura (Mrs. Taylor) absolutely hates the play. We both thought--detestable in his part, false
in emphasis, violent and coarse. Generally the fault of the performance was, strange to say
for that theater, overacting, want of repose, point, and finish. With you in essentials I was
quite satisfied, but quiet--not so much movement of arms and hands. Bear this in mind for improvement;
and go over your part to yourself with a view to it.

"The Allinghams have been here to-day. They saw you twice as Portia, and were charmed. Mrs.
Allingham wants to paint you. Allingham tells me that Spedding is going to write an article
on your Portia, and will include Clara Douglas. I am going to see Salvini in 'Hamlet' to-morrow
morning, but I would call in Charlotte Street between one and two, on the chance of seeing
you and talking it over, and amplifying what I have said.

"Ever your true old friend,

"TOM TAYLOR."

A true old friend indeed he was! I have already tried to convey how much I owed to him--how
he stood by me and helped me in difficulties, and said generously and unequivocally, at the
time of my separation from my first husband, that "the poor child was not to blame."

I was very fond of my own father, but in many ways Tom Taylor was more of a father to me than
my father in blood. Father was charming, but Irish and irresponsible. I think he loved my sister
Floss and me most because we were the lawless ones of the family! It was not in his temperament
to give wise advice and counsel. Having bequeathed to me light-heartedness and a sanguine disposition,
and trained me splendidly for my profession in childhood, he became in after years a very cormorant
for adulation of me!

"Duchess, you might have been anything!" was his favorite comment, when I was not living up
to his ideas of my position and attainments. And I used to answer: "I've played my cards for
what I want."

Years afterwards, when he and mother used to come to first nights at the Lyceum, the grossest
flattery of me after the performance was not good enough for them.

"How proud you must be of her!" someone would say. "How well this part suits her!"

"Yes," father would answer, in a sort of "is-that-all-you-have-to-say" tone. "But she ought
to play Rosalind!"

To him I owe the gaiety of temperament which has enabled me to dance through the most harsh
and desert passages of my life, just as he used to make Kate and me dance along the sordid
London streets as we walked home from the Princess's Theater. He would make us come under his
cloak, partly for warmth, partly to hide from us the stages of the journey home. From the comfortable
darkness one of us would cry out:

"Oh, I'm so tired! Aren't we nearly home? Where are we, father?"

"You know Schwab, the baker?"

"Yes, yes."

"Well, we're not there yet!"

As I grew up, this teasing, jolly, insouciant Irish father of mine was relieved of some of
his paternal duties by Tom Taylor. It was not Nelly alone whom Tom Taylor fathered. He adopted
the whole family.

At Lavender Sweep, with the horse-chestnut blossoms strewing the drive and making it look like
a tessellated pavement, all of us were always welcome, and Tom Taylor would often come to our
house and ask mother to grill him a bone! Such intimate friendships are seldom possible in
our busy profession, and there was never another Tom Taylor in my life.

When we were not in London and could not go to Lavender Sweep to see him, he wrote almost daily
to us. He was angry when other people criticised me, but he did not spare criticism himself.

"Don't be Nelly Know-all," I remember his saying once. "I saw you floundering out of your depth
to-night on the subject of butterflies! The man to whom you were talking is one of the greatest
entomologists in Europe, and must have seen through you at once."

When William Black's "Madcap Violet" was published, common report said that the heroine had
been drawn for Ellen Terry, and some of the reviews made Taylor furious.

"It's disgraceful! I shall deny it. Never will I let it be said of you that you could conceive
any vulgarity. I shall write and contradict it. Indiscreet, high-spirited, full of surprises,
you may be, but vulgar--never! I shall write at once."

"Don't do that," I said. "Can't you see that the author hasn't described me, but only me in
'New Men and Old Acres'?" As this was Tom Taylor's own play, his rage against "Madcap Violet"
was very funny! "There am I, just as you wrote it. My actions, manners, and clothes in the
play are all reproduced. You ought to feel pleased, not angry."

When his play "Victims" was being rehearsed at the Court Theater, an old woman and old actress
who had, I think, been in the preceding play was not wanted. The day the management gave her
her dismissal, she met Taylor outside the theater, and poured out a long story of distress.
She had not a stocking to her foot, she owed her rent, she was starving. Wouldn't Mr. Taylor
tell the management what dismissal meant to her? Wouldn't he get her taken back? Mr. Taylor
would try, and Mr. Taylor gave her fifteen pounds in the street then and there!

Mrs. Taylor wasn't surprised. She only wondered it wasn't thirty!

"Tom the Adapter" was the Terry dramatist for many years. Kate played in many of the pieces
which, some openly, some deviously, he brought into the English stage from the French. When
Kate married, my turn came, and the interest that he had taken in my sister's talent he transferred
in part to me, although I don't think he ever thought me her equal. Floss made her first appearance
in the child's part in Taylor's play "A Sheep in Wolf's Clothing," and Marion her first appearance
as Ophelia in his version of "Hamlet"--perhaps "perversion" would be an honester description!
Taylor introduced a "fool" who went about whacking people, including the Prince, by way of
brightening up the tragedy.

I never saw my sister's Ophelia, but I know it was a fine send-off for her and that she must
have looked lovely. Oh, what a pretty young girl she was! Her golden-brown eyes exactly matched
her hair, and she was the winsomest thing imaginable! From the first she showed talent.

From Taylor's letters I find--and, indeed, without them I could not have forgotten--that the
good, kind friend never ceased to work in our interests. "I have recommended Flossy to play
Lady Betty in the country." "I have written to the Bancrofts in favor of Forbes-Robertson for
Bassanio." (Evidently this was in answer to a request from me. Naturally, the Bancrofts wanted
someone of higher standing, but was I wrong about J. Forbes-Robertson? I think not!) "The mother
came to see me the other day. I was extremely sorry to hear the bad news of Tom." (Tom was
the black sheep of our family, but a fascinating wretch, all the same.) "I rejoice to think
of your coming back," he writes another time, "to show the stage what an actress should be."
"A thousand thanks for the photographs. I like the profile best. It is most Paolo Veronesish
and gives the right notion of your Portia, although the color hardly suggests the golden gorgeousness
of your dress and the blonde glory of the hair and complexion.... I hope you have seen the
quiet little boxes at ----'s foolish article." (This refers to an article which attacked my
Portia in Blackwood's Magazine.) "Of course, if ---- found his ideal in ---- he must dislike
you in Portia, or in anything where it is a case of grace and spontaneity and Nature against
affectation, over-emphasis, stilt, and false idealism--in short, utter lack of Nature. How
can the same critic admire both? However, the public is with you, happily, as it is not always
when the struggle is between good art and bad."

I quote these dear letters from my friend, not in my praise, but in his. Until his death in
1880, he never ceased to write to me sympathetically and encouragingly; he rejoiced in my success
the more because he had felt himself in part responsible for my marriage and its unhappy ending,
and had perhaps feared that my life would suffer. Every little detail about me and my children,
or about any of my family, was of interest to him. He was never too busy to give an attentive
ear to my difficulties. "'Think of you lovingly if I can'!" he writes to me at a time when
I had taken a course for which all blamed me, perhaps because they did not know enough to pardon
enough--savoir tout c'est tout pardonner. "Can I think of you otherwise than lovingly? Never,
if I know you and myself!"

Tom Taylor got through an enormous amount of work. Dramatic critic and art critic for the Times,
he was also editor of Punch and a busy playwright. Everyone who wanted an address written or
a play altered came to him, and his house was a kind of Mecca for pilgrims from America and
from all parts of the world. Yet he all the time occupied a position in a Government office--the
Home Office, I think it was--and often walked from Whitehall to Lavender Sweep when his day's
work was done. He was an enthusiastic amateur actor, his favorite part being Adam in "As You
Like It," perhaps because tradition says this was a part that Shakespeare played; at any rate,
he was very good in it. Gilbert and Sullivan, in very far-off days, used to be concerned in
these amateur theatricals. Their names were not associated then, but Kate and I established
a prophetic link by carrying on a mild flirtation, I with Arthur Sullivan, Kate with Mr. Gilbert!

Taylor never wasted a moment. He pottered, but thought deeply all the time; and when I used
to watch him plucking at his gray beard, I realized that he was just as busy as if his pen
had been plucking at his paper. Many would-be writers complain that the necessity of earning
a living in some other and more secure profession hinders them from achieving anything. What
about Taylor at the Home Office, Charles Lamb at East India House, and Rousseau copying music
for bread? It all depends on the point of view. A young lady in Chicago, who has written some
charming short stories, told me how eagerly she was looking forward to the time when she would
be able to give up teaching and devote herself entirely to a literary career. I wondered, and
said I was never sure whether absolute freedom in such a matter was desirable. Perhaps Charles
Lamb was all the better for being a slave at the desk for so many years.

"Ah, but then, Charles Lamb wrote so little!" was the remarkable answer.

Taylor did not write "so little." He wrote perhaps too much, and I think his heart was too
strong for his brain. He was far too simple and lovable a being to be great. The atmosphere
of gaiety which pervaded Lavender Sweep arose from his generous, kindly nature, which insisted
that it was possible for everyone to have a good time.

Once, when we were rushing to catch a train with him, Kate hanging onto one arm and I onto
the other, we all three fell down the station steps. "Now, then, none of your jokes!" said
a cross man behind us, who seemed to attribute our descent to rowdyism. Taylor stood up with
his soft felt hat bashed over one eye, his spectacles broken, and laughed, and laughed, and
laughed!

Lavender Sweep was a sort of house of call for everyone of note. Mazzini stayed there some
time, and Steele Mackaye, the American actor who played that odd version of "Hamlet" at the
Crystal Palace with Polly as Ophelia. Perhaps a man with more acute literary conscience than
Taylor would not have condescended to "write up" Shakespeare; perhaps a man of more independence
and ambition would not have wasted his really fine accomplishment as a playwright for ever
on adaptations. That was his weakness--if it was a weakness. He lived entirely for his age,
and so was more prominent in it than Charles Reade, for instance, whose name, no doubt, will
live longer.

He put himself at the mercy of Whistler, once, in some Velasquez controversy of which I forget
the details, but they are all set out, for those who like mordant ridicule, in "The Gentle
Art of Making Enemies."

When Tom Taylor criticised acting he wrote as an expert, and he often said illuminating things
to me about actors and actresses which I could apply over again to some of the players with
whom I have been associated since. "She is a curious example," he said once of an actress of
great conscientiousness, "of how far seriousness, sincerity, and weight will supply the place
of almost all the other qualities of an actress." When a famous classic actress reappeared
as Rosalind, he described her performance as "all minute-guns and minauderies, ... a foot between
every word, and the intensity of the emphasis entirely destroying all the spontaneity and flow
of spirits which alone excuse and explain; ... as unlike Shakespeare's Rosalind, I will stake
my head, as human personation could be!"

There was some talk at that time (the early 'seventies) of my playing Rosalind at Manchester
for Mr. Charles Calvert, and Tom Taylor urged me to do it. "Then," he said charmingly, "I can
sing my stage Nunc Dimittis." The whole plan fell through, including a project for me to star
as Juliet to the Romeo of a lady!

I have already said that the Taylors' home was one of the most softening and culturing influences
of my early life. Would that I could give an impression of the dear host at the head of his
dinner-table, dressed in black silk knee-breeches and velvet cutaway coat--a survival of a
politer time, not an affectation of it--beaming on his guests with his very brown eyes!

Lavender is still associated in my mind with everything that is lovely and refined. My mother
nearly always wore the color, and the Taylors lived at Lavender Sweep! This may not be an excellent
reason for my feelings on the subject, but it is reason good enough.

"Nature repairs her ravages," it is said, but not all. New things come into one's life--new
loves, new joys, new interests, new friends--but they cannot replace the old. When Tom Taylor
died, I lost a friend the like of whom I never had again.

VI

A YEAR WITH THE BANCROFTS

My engagement with the Bancrofts lasted a little over a year. After Portia there was nothing
momentous about it. I found Clara Douglas difficult, but I enjoyed playing her. President McKinley
was anxious to commission Senator Hoar as Minister to England, and proffered him the place. It
was without any desire to remove him from the arena of contention-- apprehension of such a reflection
restrained the proffer for a time-- though the contention had not
then been fully developed.

"After
President McKinley's death I expressed the public sorrow and my own in an address to a vast
audience of the people of my own city of Worcester, in Mechanics'Hall; and again, at the request
of the Republican State Committee, at the Republican State Convention
shortly afterward.

I have reason to know that both the addresses gave pleasure to many of the lamented President's
closest and warmest friends throughout the country. I was afterward invited by the City Government
of Worcester to deliver a historical eulogy on President McKinley before them. That office, it seemed
to me, I ought to decline. It was not because I was behind any other man in admiration or personal
affection for that lofty and beautiful character. But I thought that address, which was not
only to utter the voice of public sorrow, but to give a careful and discriminating sketch
of the public life of its subject, ought to be delivered by some person who agreed with him
in regard to the most important action of his life. I could not well pass over the Philippine
question. I could not well speak of it without stating my own opinion.

I could not undertake to state President McKinley's opinion, conduct or policy, without expressing
my disapproval of it, and if I did not do that, I could not state it without being thought by those
who heartily approved it, not to have stated it justly and fairly.

I had repeatedly declared, during the preceding two years, both before
and since his death, my highest admiration for the intellectual and
moral qualities of my beloved friend, and my belief that he would
have a very high place in history among the best and ablest men of
the country.

But I thought the story of the important part of his life should be told from his point of view,
and not from mine; that the reasons which governed him should be
stated by a person sure to appreciate them fully.

If a great Catholic Prelate were to die, his eulogy should not be pronounced by a Protestant.
When Dr. Channing died, we did not select a Calvinist minister to pronounce his funeral sermon.
When Charles Sumner died Mr. Schurz and Mr. Curtis, not some old Whig, and not some earnest supporter
of General Grant, pronounced the eulogy.

I suppose nobody would have dreamed of asking a Free Trader to pronounce the eulogy on President
McKinley if he had died soon after the beginning of his first term. So I declined the office.
The City did not ask anybody else to fill my place, or perform the
task.

I will not now renew the debate about our treatment of the people of the Philippine Islands. My
opinion has not at all changed.

I think that under the lead of Mabini and Aguinaldo and their associates, but for our interference,
a Republic would have been established in Luzon, which would have compared well with the best
of the Republican Governments between the United States and Cape Horn. For years and for generations,
and perhaps for centuries, there would have been turbulence, disorder and revolution. But in her
own way Destiny would have evolved for them a force of civic rule best adapted to their need.
If we had treated them as we did Cuba, we should have been saved the public shame of violating
not only our own pledges, but the rule of conduct which we had declared to be self-evident
truth in the beginning of our history. We should have been saved the humiliation of witnessing the
subjection by Great Britain of the Boers in South Africa, without
a murmur of disapproval, and without an expression of one word of
sympathy for the heroic victims.

My term as Senator expired on the fourth of March, 1901. The election of Senator for the following
term came in January of that year.

I differed sharply from my colleague, Mr. Lodge, in this whole matter. But the people of Massachusetts,
with the generous and liberal temper which ever distinguished that
noble Commonwealth, desired that their Senators should act upon their
own judgment, without any constraint.

A resolution was introduced at the session of the Legislature of 1899 by Mr. Mellen, Democratic
member from Worcester, thanking me for my speech in opposition to the Spanish Treaty, endorsing
the doctrine of that speech, and condemning the subjugation of the Philippine people by force of
arms.

Charles G. Washburn, Republican member from Worcester, introduced
a resolution commending my speech, and declaring it to be" A speech
of the loftiest patriotism and eloquent interpretation of the high
conception of human freedom which the fathers sought to preserve for
all time in the Declaration of Independence and in the Constitution
of the United States.

"These resolution, if adopted, would, by implication, condemn the well-known opinion and action
of my colleague.

They were encountered by several others, none of which referred to either Senator, but expressed
approval of the Spanish Treaty. One of them, however, presented in the House by Mr. Mills
of Newburyport, declared that the Treaty ought to be ratified, and then the United States should
fulfil to Porto Rico and the Philippine Islands the pledge of self-government
and independence made to Cuba.

Very wisely all these resolutions were referred to the Committee on Federal Relations, who
reported this as a compromise: RESOLUTION REPORTED BY THE COMMITTEE
ON FEDERAL RELATIONS, OF THE LEGISLATURE, MARCH 29, 1899 Resolved,
by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts in General Court assembled, that Massachusetts, ever
loyal in sympathy and support of the General Government, continues
her unabated confidence in her Senators, and with a just pride in
the eloquent and memorable words they have uttered, leaves them untrammeled
in the exercise of an independent and patriotic judgment upon the
momentous questions presented for their consideration.

The whole matter was then dropped.

But the Legislature,
and the generous people of Massachusetts whom they represented, acted upon the spirit of the Committee's
Resolution. I was reelected without opposition. I had every Republican
vote, and many Democratic votes, of the Legislature. My affectionate
and cordial relations with my brilliant and accomplished colleague
have never suffered an instant's interruption. I think I am entitled to record,
however, that this result was not accomplished by any abatement of
my opposition to the policy of the Administration as to the Philippine
Islands.

I made a great many speeches within a few weeks of the Presidential election in 1900. The members
of the Senate and House, of the Massachusetts Legislature, who were to choose a Senator, were to be
chosen at the same time. I expressed my unchanged and earnest opposition of disapproval to
the whole business at length. In speaking of the habit of appealing to the love of the flag
in behalf of this policy of conquest, I said that there was but one
symbol more sacred than the American flag.

That was the bread and wine which represented the body and blood of the Saviour of mankind; adding,
that a man who would use an appeal to the flag in aid of the subjugation of an unwilling people,
would be capable of using the sacramental wine for a debauch. The week before the election of Senator
came on a bill for the reorganization of the Army was before the
Senate.

That contained a provision for increasing the Army to a hundred thousand
men, allowing the President, however, to reduce it to seventy thousand,
and to raise it again if necessary, so it would in his discretion
be elastic, within those limitations.

Mr.
Bacon, of Georgia, who seemed to be the leader of the Democrats on that measure, inquired of the
Republicans who were managing the bill, how many men they needed and what time would be required
to put down the insurrection in the Philippine Islands. Senator Bacon
said that they would give them the hundred thousand men, or any force
they might demand for one or two or three or five years, or for any
required time.

But they were unwilling to give the President the power of expanding and contracting the army
in time of peace. This was in full Senate. I followed with a statement that I had no objection
to giving the President this discretion, and did not disapprove the bill on that account. I thought
the size of the Army in time of peace should be left largely to the
opinion of the experts, especially General Miles, the famous soldier
at the head of our Army, who thought the regular Army should consist
of one hundred for every thousand of our population.

That would be about eighty thousand then, and before long would require a hundred thousand men.
But I said I was opposed to raising soldiers to carry on the war in the Philippine Islands.
The only way to stop it that I knew was to refuse to vote for the Army Bill. I voted against
it solely on that account. I meant that if the Legislature of Massachusetts were to reelect me, no man
should ever have it to say that I had bought my reelection by silence on this question, or concealed
my opinion, however extreme it might be, until after election.

After my election I delivered an address before the two Houses of the Legislature, at their request,
and was received with a most cordial enthusiasm.

Yet I think that if any leading Republican who had differed from me on this question, especially
Governor Long, of whose brilliant administration of the Navy the people of the Commonwealth
were so proud, had pressed his candidacy for the office in opposition
to me, as has been the custom in like cases in other States, it is
not unlikely that he would have been elected.

I have no doubt I should have found Governor Roger Wolcott a formidable competitor, if he
had lived and been willing. Governor Wolcott had made a statement in public, quietly and briefly,
as was his wont, expressing his sympathy with me when the question of the Treaty was under debate.
Somewhat later he made a statement in the same way, expressing his
opinion that the Administration should be supported.

Both these declarations were in general terms. They were not inconsistent with each other. But death
arrested the honorable and useful career of Roger Wolcott when he was still in the prime of life,
in the strength of his noble manhood, a strength which seemed rapidly
enlarging and growing as if in early youth.

I have not doubt that the subjugation of the Philippine Islands, the acquisition of a dependency to
be held in subjection by the United States, the overthrow of the
great doctrine that Governments rest on the consent of the governed;
that all the painful consequences which have attended the war for
the subjugation of that distant people, would have been avoided if
the Democratic opposition had been hearty and sincere.

The same spirit that defeated the Election bill in spite of the majority in its favor, would have
easily accomplished that result. The Democratic Party, as a party, never meant business in this
matter. I do not deny that many Democrats-- I dare say a majority of the Democrats-- were as earnestly
and seriously opposed to the acquisition of the Philippine Islands
as I was myself.

But they never wielded their party strength in opposition to it. I said
to one eminent Democratic leader early in the year 1900:" There is
one way in which you can put an end to this whole business.

If you can elect a Democratic House it will have power under the Constitution to determine the use
to which the Army shall be put. In that way you compelled President Hayes to refrain from further
support by military force of the Republican State Governments in the South.
"He answered:" Mr. Hoar, we shall never do anything as radical as
that.

"When Senator Bacon made the offer to the majority of the Senate to agree to give them all the
military power they desired for the suppression of the resistance in
the Philippines for as long a time as they should think it necessary, the
entire Democratic Party in the Senate was in their seats, and there
was no expression of dissent.

I think the Democratic Party feared the fate of the Federalists who
opposed the War of 1812, and of the Democrats who opposed the War
for the Union in 1861. This of course in the nature of things is
but conjecture. Seventeen of the followers of Mr. Bryan voted for
the Treaty. The Treaty would have been defeated, not only lacking the needful
two thirds, but by a majority of the Senate but for the votes of Democrats
and Populists.

Senators Morgan and Pettus of Alabama, Senator McLaurin of South Carolina, Senator McEnery of Louisiana,
were avowed supporters of the Treaty from the beginning. Mr. Bryan in the height of the contest came to
Washington for the express purpose of urging upon his followers
that it was best to support the Treaty, end the War, and let the question
of what should be done with our conquest be settled in the coming
campaign.

He urged upon them, as I was told by several Democrats at the time who did not take his advice, that
the Democratic Party could not hope to win a victory on the financial
questions at stake after they had been beaten on them in a time of
adversity; and that they must have this issue for the coming campaign.

He was besought by his wiser political associates to go away and leave the Senate to settle the
matter. But he remained. After that it became impossible, not only to defeat the Treaty, but
to defeat the policy which had inspired it. The Treaty pledged that the Philippine Islands should
be governed by Congress.

It undertook obligations which require for their fulfillment, at least ten years'control of the
Islands. It put the people of the Philippine Islands in the attitude
of abandoning the Republic they had formed, and of acknowledging not only
our supremacy but that they were neither entitled or fit to govern
themselves or to carry on the war which had unfortunately broken out.

I do not mean to imply that, as I have said, a large number of the
Democratic Party both in public life and out of it, were not sincere
and zealous in their opposition to this wretched business.

But next to a very few men who controlled the policy of the Republican
Party in this matter, Mr. Bryan and his followers who voted in the
Senate for the Treaty are responsible for the results.

I have been blamed, as I have said already, because, with my opinions, I did not join the Democratic
Party and help to elect Mr. Bryan. I disagreed with him and his party as to every other issue then pending
before the American people.

So differing from him, I found nothing in his attitude or that of his party, to induce me to
support him, or even to inspire my confidence in their settlement
of the question of Imperialism or expansion.

In my opinion, if he had been elected, he would have accepted the
result, have put the blame for it on his predecessor in office, and matters
would have gone on very much as they have under Republican control.
I have been told by many Senators who voted for the Treaty, that
they regretted that vote more than any other act of their lives.

    Enough Senators have said
    this to me in person, not only to have defeated the Treaty, but
if they had so voted, to have defeated it by a majority. A very eminent
Republican Senator told me that more than twenty Senators, who voted
for the Treaty, had given the same assurance to him. But they are very
unwilling to make the declaration public.

Several gentlemen, however, have publicly expressed their regret for their vote, as is well known,
enough to have changed the result.

When I think of my party, whose glory and whose service to Liberty
are the pride of my life, crushing out this people in their effort
to establish a Republic, and hear people talk about giving them good
Government, and that they are better off than they ever were under
Spain, I feel very much as if I had learned that my father, or some
other honored ancestor, had been a slave-trader in his time, and had
boasted that he had introduced a new and easier kind of hand-cuffs
or fetters to be worn by the slaves during the horrors of the middle
passage.

I do not believe that there is a respectable or intelligent Filipino to-day, unless possibly some
Macabebe scout, who would not get rid of the Government of the United States at once, if he could.
Buencamino is said to be one of the ablest of their public men.
He has been quoted as friendly to us, and is so.

     There is no doubt that he has so expressed himself. He has been appointed
a member of the Taft Government, and has had committed to him the responsible
and important duty of deciding the appointments to the offices which
are to be filled by the native Filipinos, under the existing establishment.

     It is said by both sides that he is crafty and selfish and ambitious,
and that he likes to be on the side that is the strongest. How that
may be, I do not know.

     But he will not even pretend to accept the rule of the United States willingly.
He appeared as a witness before a Committee of the House of Representatives,
when in this country in 1902.

     

     

     He was asked whether his people approved the policy of the Democratic
Party.

     He answered emphatically:" No. They do not wish to have the United States
abandon them to the ambition or cupidity of foreign Governments.

     "But he added:" Every Filipino is in favor of the policy advocated
by Senator Hoar. "" What! "said his inquirer, with great surprise," Do you
mean to say that every Filipino agrees with Senator Hoar in his views?

"" Yes, "replied the man, with great emphasis;" every Filipino agrees with Senator Hoar. "I mentioned
this one day in conversation with President Roosevelt. He told me that Buencamino had said exactly the same
thing to him.

    

General Miles told me on his return from his journey round the world that he saw many leaders
of the Philippine people; that they spoke of me with great regard and attachment. June 17, 1902, an
eminent Hindoo scholar, published a long article in the Japan Times, in which he said:" The speech
of Mr. Hoar, though an address to his own countrymen, is a message of hope to the whole world
which sank with despondency at the sight of Republican America behaving like a cruel, tyrannical
and rapacious Empire in the Philippines and particularly to the broken-hearted people of Asia who
are beginning to lose all confidence in the humanity of the white
races.

Or is it that they have lost it already? Hence all papers in Asia should reprint his speech,
translate it, and distribute it broadcast. Let it be brought home to the Asiatic people so that
they may work and worship their champion and his forefathers. Thanks to the awakening in America,
thanks to the forces that are at work to chase out the degenerating,
demoralizing passion for territorial aggrandizement from the noble American
mind and save it for itself and the world at large from the cancer of
Imperialism. "I am afraid I am committing an offence against good
taste in repeating such laudations.

But it must be remembered that a public man who has to encounter so
much bitter reviling and objurgation, is fairly entitled to have a
little extravagance on the other side that the balance may be even.

I would rather have the gratitude of the poor people of the Philippine Islands, amid their sorrow,
and have it true that what I may say or do has brought a ray of hope into the gloomy caverns in which
the oppressed peoples of Asia dwell, than to receive a Ducal Coronet from every Monarch in
Europe, or command the applause of listening Senators and read my history in a Nation's eyes.
At first there can seem nothing more absurd than the suggestion of
my Asiatic friend that the people of Asia should worship their champion
and his ancestors.

But on second thought, it is fair to say that while no human being can be entitled to be worshipped
by any other, yet that we got our love of Liberty from our ancestors, or at any rate that is where
I got mine, and that they are entitled to all the credit. CHAPTER XXXIV APPOINTMENTS TO OFFICE
Among the great satisfactions in the life of public men is that of sometimes being instrumental
in the advancement to places of public honor of worthy men, and of
being able to have a great and salutary influence upon their lives.

I have always held to the doctrine of what is called Civil Service Reform, and have maintained
to the best of my ability the doctrine of the absolute independence of the Executive in such matters,
as his right to disregard the wishes and opinions of members of either
House of Congress, and to make his appointments, executive and judicial,
without advice, or on such advice as he shall think best.

But, at the same time, there can be no doubt that the Executive must depend on some advice other
than his own, to learn the quality of men in different parts of this vast Republic, and to learn what will
be agreeable to public opinion and to the party which is administering
the Government and is responsible for its administration.

    

He will, ordinarily, find no better source of such information than in the men whom the people have
shown their own confidence by entrusting them with the important
function of Senator or Representative.

He will soon learn to know his men, and how far he can safely take such advice. He must be careful
to see to it that he is not induced to build up a faction in his party,
or to fill up the public offices with the partisans of ambitious
but unscrupulous politicians.

It was of the address in which these words occur that a Boston hearer said that it was felt
by every one present that "the truth had been spoken by a man who had learned it through living
and not through theory."

I leave his Hamlet for the present with one further reflection. It was in courtesy and humor
that it differed most widely from other Hamlets that I have seen and heard of. This Hamlet
was never rude to Polonius. His attitude towards the old Bromide (I thank you, Mr. Gelett Burgess,
for teaching me that word which so lightly and charmingly describes the child of darkness and
of platitude) was that of one who should say: "You dear, funny old simpleton, whom I have had
to bear with all my life--how terribly in the way you seem now."

Hamlet was by far his greatest triumph, although he would not admit it himself--preferring
in some moods to declare that his finest work was done in Macbeth, which was almost universally
disliked.

When I went with Coghlan to see Irving's Philip, this "Hamlet" digression may have suggested
that I was not in the least surprised at what I saw. Being a person little given to dreaming,
and always living wholly in the present, it did not occur to me to wonder if I should ever
act with this marvelous man. He was not at this time lessee of the Lyceum--Colonel Bateman
was still alive--and I looked no further than my engagement at the Prince of Wales's, although
in a few months it was to come to an end.

Although I was now earning a good salary, I still lived in lodgings at Camden Town, took an
omnibus to and from the theater, and denied myself all luxuries. I did not take a house until
I went to the Court Theater. It was then, too, that I had my first cottage--a wee place at
Hampton Court where my children were very happy. They used to give performances of "As You
Like It" for the benefit of the Palace custodians--old Crimean veterans, most of them--and
when the children had grown up these old men would still ask affectionately after "little Miss
Edy" and "Master Teddy," forgetting the passing of time.

My little daughter was a very severe critic! I think if I had listened to her, I should have
left the stage in despair. She saw me act for the first time as Mabel Vane, but no compliments
were to be extracted from her.

"You did look long and thin in your gray dress."

"When you fainted I thought you was going to fall into the orchestra--you was so long."

In "New Men and Old Acres" I had to play the piano while I conducted a conversation consisting
on my side chiefly of haughty remarks to the effect that "blood would tell," to talk naturally
and play at the same time. I "shied" at the lines, became self-conscious, and either sang the
words or altered the rhythm of the tune to suit the pace of the speech. I grew anxious about
it, and was always practicing it at home. After much hard work Edy used to wither me with:

"That's not right!"

Teddy was of a more flattering disposition, but very obstinate when he chose. I remember "wrastling"
with him for hours over a little Blake poem which he had learned by heart, to say to his mother:

    "When the voices of children are heard on the green,
      And laughing is heard on the hill,
    My heart is at rest within my breast,
      And everything else is still.
    Then come home, my children, the sun is gone down,
      And the dews of the night arise,
    Come, come, leave off play, and let us away,
      Till morning appears in the skies.

    No, no, let us play, for yet it is day,
      And we cannot go to sleep.
    Besides, in the sky the little birds fly,
      And the hills are all covered with sheep...."

All went well until the last line. Then he came to a stop.

Nothing would make him say sheep!

With a face beaming with anxiety to please, looking adorable, he would offer any word but the
right one.

"And the hills are all covered with--"

"With what, Teddy?"

"Master Teddy don't know."

"Something white, Teddy."

"Snow?"

"No, no--does snow rhyme with 'sleep'?"

"Paper?"

"No, no. Now, I am not going to the theater until you say the right word. What are the hills
covered with?"

"People."

"Teddy, you're a very naughty boy."

At this point he was put in the corner. His first suggestion when he came out was:

"Grass? Trees?"

"Are grass or trees white?" said the despairing mother with her eye on the clock, which warned
her that, after all, she would have to go to the theater without winning.

Meanwhile, Edy was murmuring: "Sheep, Teddy," in a loud aside, but Teddy would not say it,
not even when both he and I burst into tears!

At Hampton Court the two children, dressed in blue and white check pinafores, their hair closely
cropped--the little boy fat and fair (at this time he bore a remarkable resemblance to Laurence's
portrait of the youthful King of Rome), the little girl thin and dark--ran as wild as though
the desert had been their playground instead of the gardens of this old palace of kings! They
were always ready to show visitors (not so numerous then as now) the sights; prattled freely
to them of "my mamma," who was acting in London, and showed them the new trees which they had
assisted the gardeners to plant in the wild garden, and christened after my parts. A silver
birch was Iolanthe, a maple Portia, an oak Mabel Vane. Through their kind offices many a stranger
found it easy to follow the intricacies of the famous Maze. It was a fine life for them, surely,
this unrestricted running to and fro in the gardens, with the great Palace as a civilizing
influence!

It was for their sake that I was most glad of my increasing prosperity in my profession. My
engagement with the Bancrofts was exchanged at the close of the summer season of 1876 for an
even more popular one with Mr. John Hare at the Court Theater, Sloane Square.

I had learned a great deal at the Prince of Wales's, notably that the art of playing in modern
plays in a tiny theater was quite different from the art of playing in the classics in a big
theater. The methods for big and little theaters are alike, yet quite unlike. I had learned
breadth in Shakespeare at the Princess's, and had had to employ it again in romantic plays
for Charles Reade. The pit and gallery were the audience which we had to reach. At the Prince
of Wales's I had to adopt a more delicate, more subtle, more intimate style. But the breadth
had to be there just the same--as seen through the wrong end of the microscope. In acting one
must possess great strength before one can be delicate in the right way. Too often weakness
is mistaken for delicacy.

Mr. Hare was one of the best stage managers that I have met during the whole of my long experience
in the theater. He was snappy in manner, extremely irritable if anything went wrong, but he
knew what he wanted, and he got it. No one has ever surpassed him in the securing of a perfect
ensemble. He was the Meissonier among the theater artists. Very likely he would have failed
if he had been called upon to produce "King John," but what better witness to his talent than
that he knew his line and stuck to it?

The members of his company were his, body and soul, while they were rehearsing. He gave them
fifteen minutes for lunch, and any actor or actress who was foolish or unlucky enough to be
a minute late, was sorry afterwards. Mr. Hare was peppery and irascible, and lost his temper
easily.

Personally, I always got on well with my new manager, and I ought to be grateful to him, if
only because he gave me the second great opportunity of my career--the part of Olivia in Wills's
play from "The Vicar of Wakefield." During this engagement at the Court I married again. I
had met Charles Wardell, whose stage name was Kelly, when he was acting in "Rachael the Reaper"
for Charles Reade. At the Court we played together in several pieces. He had not been bred
an actor, but a soldier. He was in the 66th Regiment, and had fought in the Crimean War; been
wounded, too--no carpet knight. His father was a clergyman, vicar of Winlaton, Northumberland--a
charming type of the old-fashioned parson, a friendship with Sir Walter Scott in the background,
and many little possessions of the great Sir Walter's in the foreground to remind one of what
had been.

Charlie Kelly, owing to his lack of training, had to be very carefully suited with a part before
he shone as an actor. But when he was suited--his line was the bluff, hearty, kindly, soldier-like
Englishman--he was better than many people who had twenty years' start of him in experience.
This is absurdly faint praise. In such parts as Mr. Brown in "New Men and Old Acres," the farmer
father in "Dora," Diogenes in "Iris," no one could have bettered him. His most ambitious attempt
was Benedick, which he played with me when I first appeared as Beatrice at Leeds. It was in
many respects a splendid performance, and perhaps better for the play than the more polished,
thoughtful, and deliberate Benedick of Henry Irving.

Physically a manly, bulldog sort of a man, Charles Kelly possessed as an actor great tenderness
and humor. It was foolish of him to refuse the part of Burchell in "Olivia," in which he would
have made a success equal to that achieved by Terriss as the Squire. But he was piqued at not
being cast for the Vicar, which he could not have played well, and stubbornly refused to play
Burchell.

Alas! many actors are just as blind to their true interests.

We were married in 1876; and after I left the Court Theater for the Lyceum, we continued to
tour together in the provinces during vacation time when the Lyceum was closed. These tours
were very successful, but I never worked harder in my life! When we played "Dora" at Liverpool,
Charles Reade, who had adapted the play from Tennyson's poem, wrote:

     "Nincompoop!

     "What have you to fear from me for such a masterly performance! Be
     assured nobody can appreciate your value and Mr. Kelley's as I do.
     It is well played all round."

VII

EARLY DAYS AT THE LYCEUM

It is humiliating to me to confess that I have not the faintest recollection of "Brothers,"
the play by Coghlan, in which I see by the evidence of an old play-bill that I made my first
appearance under Mr. Hare's management. I remember another play by Coghlan, in which Henry
Kemble made one of his early appearances in the part of a butler, and how funny he was, even
in those days, in a struggle to get rid of a pet monkey--a "property" monkey made of brown
wool with no "devil" in it, except that supplied by the comedian's imagination. We trusted
to our acting, not to real monkeys and real dogs to bring us through, and when the acting was
Henry Kemble's, it was good enough to rely upon! 

The squire was absent attending a business meeting in the neighbouring town, and nothing had yet
been said to Walter on the subject of his brother's departure. That afternoon Amos set off
for Collingford, and Walter and his sister on their shooting and
sketching expedition, which proved a miserable failure, so far as
any pleasure to Julia was concerned.

Collingford was nearly a day's journey from Flixworth Manor, so it was not till dark that Amos
arrived at the town. He sought out at once the Scripture reader, and obtained full information
as to the state of the poor sufferer. Could he obtain lodgings in
the house where the sick man was? Mr Harris shook his head.

"I am
not afraid either of poor accommodation or of infection," said Amos.
Charles Kelly was splendid as Mr. Brown, and Mr. Hare played a small part perfectly.

H.B. Conway, a young actor whose good looks were talked of everywhere, was also in the cast.
He was a descendant of Lord Byron's, and had a look of the handsomest portraits of the poet.
With his bright hair curling tightly all over his well-shaped head, his beautiful figure, and
charming presence, Conway created a sensation in the 'eighties almost equal to that made by
the more famous beauty, Lillie Langtry.

As an actor he belonged to the Terriss type, but he was not nearly as good as Terriss. Of his
extraordinary failure in the Lyceum "Faust" I shall say something when I come to the Lyceum
productions. 

It is not because of his integrity alone that it relies on an honest man, but it has more confidence
in his judgment and wise conduct, in the long run, than in the schemes of those of greater intellect
who go at large without any landmarks of principle. So that virtue seems of a double nature,
and to stand oftentimes in the place of what we call talent.

"[Footnote]* Richard H. Dana, the elder.

[End of Footnote] He was spared the fate of so many of our great New
England statesmen, that of closing his life in sorrow and in gloom.

His last days were days of hope, not of despair. Sumner came to his seat in the Senate Chamber as
to a solitude.

When he was struck with death there was found upon his table a volume of Shakespeare with this
passage, probably the last printed text on which his eyes ever gazed,
marked with his own hand: Would I were dead! if God's good will were
so; For what is in this world, but care and woe?

The last
days of Samuel Adams were embittered by poverty, sickness, and the
death of his only son.

Daniel Webster laid wearily down his august head in disappointment
and sorrow, predicting with dying breath that the end had come to
the great party to whose service his life was given.

When John
Quincy Adams fell at his post in the House of Representatives a great newspaper declared that
there could not be found in the country another bold enough or bad enough to take his
place. But Mr. Morrill's last days were filled with hope and not
with despair. I have had to work to
restrain them.

Oddly enough, although "Olivia" was such a great success at the Court, it has never made much
money since. The play could pack a tiny theater; it could never appeal in a big way to the
masses. In itself it had a sure message--the love story of an injured woman is one of the cards
in the stage pack which it is always safe to play--but against this there was a bad last act,
one of the worst I have ever acted in. It was always being tinkered with, but patching and
alteration only seems to weaken it.

Mr. Hare produced "Olivia" perfectly. Marcus Stone designed the clothes, and I found my dresses--both
faithful and charming as reproductions of the eighteenth century spirit--stood the advance
of time and the progress of ideas when I played the part later at the Lyceum. I had not to
alter anything. Henry Irving discovered the same thing about the scenery and stage management.
They could not be improved upon. So the influence of Mr. Schurz has only been to contribute some
powerful arguments to the cause which he espoused and never, certainly
for a great many years, that of a leader.

Mr. Schurz's arguments for the last thirty years would have been as effective if published anonymously,
and I dare say more effective than they have been when given to the
world under his name.

Mr. Blaine says of him that he has not the power of speaking extempore; that he requires careful
and studious preparation, and is never ready, off-hand, to shoot
on the wing.

This was all the more remarkable, and honorable to public taste, too, because Mrs. Langtry's
was not a showy beauty. Her hair was the color that it had pleased God to make it; her complexion
was her own; in evening dress she did not display nearly as much of her neck and arms as was
the vogue, yet they outshone all other necks and arms through their own perfection.

"No worker has a right to criticise publicly the work of another in the same field," Henry
Irving once said to me, and Heaven forbid that I should disregard advice so wise! I am aware
that the professional critics and the public did not transfer to Mrs. Langtry the actress the
homage that they had paid to Mrs. Langtry the beauty, but I can only speak of the simplicity
with which she approached her work, of her industry, and utter lack of vanity about her powers.
When she played Rosalind (which my daughter, the best critic of acting I know, tells me was
in many respects admirable), she wrote to me:

"Dear Nellie,--

"I bundled through my part somehow last night, a disgraceful performance, and no waist-padding!
Oh, what an impudent wretch you must think me to attempt such a part! I pinched my arm once
or twice last night to see if it was really me. It was so sweet of you to write me such a nice
letter, and then a telegram, too!

"Yours ever, dear Nell,

"LILLIE.

"P.S.--I am rehearsing, all day--'The Honeymoon' next week. I love the hard work, and the thinking
and study."

Just at this time there was a great dearth on the stage of people with lovely diction, and
Lillie Langtry had it. He was, what is less generally remembered now, perhaps the ablest and
most accomplished diplomatist ever in the public service of the United
States.

Jared Sparks was a profound student of history, somewhat dull as a narrator, but of unerring
historic judgment. I suppose he would be placed by all our writers of history with great unanimity
at the head of American historic investigators. James Walker was a great preacher and a profound
thinker. In the judgment of his hearers, young and old, he was probably deemed nearly or quite the
foremost of American preachers.

That I may not be supposed to imply any disparagement of the present accomplished head of Harvard,
let me say that while each of the men I have named had done a great work in life and achieved
a great fame before he came to the Presidency, President Eliot has, in my opinion, achieved
an equal fame and performed an equal work since he came to it.

A like policy prevailed in those days in the choice of instructors in the Law School. Judge
Story, the senior professor, died just before I graduated from the College. His fame as a jurist
was known throughout Europe.

He was undoubtedly the most learned judge in the United States. Chief Justice Marshall and
Chief Justice Shaw of Massachusetts doubtless excelled him in intellectual vigor. Chancellor
Kent rivalled him as a writer upon law. But he had no other rival among judges or commentators
in this country,-- few anywhere. He was unquestionably, at the time of his death, the most famous teacher
of law in the civilized world. His associate professor, Greenleaf, was an admirable lawyer,
who, before he went to Harvard, had had a great practice in Maine,
and made some good arguments in the Supreme Court of the United States.

Judge Story was succeeded by Chief Justice Joel Parker of New Hampshire, a very eminent jurist,
who was saturated with the old learning of special pleading and real property. He would have
been a fit associate for Coke or Saunders, and would have held his
own anywhere with either.

There
was nothing in the teaching of Latin or Greek to inspire the student with any love of Greek
or Latin literature. The professor never pointed out its beauties or illustrated the text in any
way. The students, in succession, were called upon to construe a few lines, reading one or two
Greek words and then giving their English equivalents.

The time of the good scholar was taken up in hearing the recitation of the poor scholar and so
very largely wasted. I had four or five persons in my class who became afterward eminent classical
scholars.

I do not believe that when we graduated there were more than four men in the class who could
write a decent Latin sentence without the laborious use of grammar
and dictionary.

I doubt whether there was more than one, certainly there were not more than three, who could
do the same thing in Greek. I do not suppose there was a man in the class who could have spoken
either language with ease.

Yet, somehow, the graduates of Harvard got a good intellectual training
from the University.

The rough country boy, if he had it in him, came out at his graduation a gentleman in behavior
and in character. He was able to take hold of life with great vigor. To the women-folk, especially the plainer ones, he was always delightful.
Never was any man more adored by the theater staff. And children, my own Edy included, were
simply daft about him. A little American girl, daughter of William Winter, the famous critic,
when staying with me in England, announced gravely when we were out driving:

"I've gone a mash on Terriss."

There was much laughter. When it had subsided, the child said gravely:

"Oh, you can laugh, but it's true. I wish I was hammered to him!"

Perhaps if he had lived longer, Terriss would have lost his throne. He died as a beautiful
youth, a kind of Adonis, although he was fifty years old when he was stabbed at the stage-door
of the Adelphi Theater.

Terriss had a beautiful mouth. That predisposed me in his favor at once! I have always been
"cracked" on pretty mouths! I remember that I used to say "Naughty Teddy!" to my own little
boy just for the pleasure of seeing him put out his under-lip, when his mouth looked lovely!

At the Court Terriss was still under thirty, but doing the best work of his life. He never
did anything finer than Squire Thornhill, although he was clever as Henry VIII. His gravity
as Flutter in "The Belle's Stratagem" was very fetching; as Bucklaw in "Ravenswood" he looked
magnificent, and, of course, as the sailor hero in Adelphi melodrama he was as good as could
be. But it is as Thornhill that I like best to remember him. He was precisely the handsome,
reckless, unworthy creature that good women are fools enough to love.

In the Court production of "Olivia," both my children walked on to the stage for the first
time. Teddy had such red cheeks that they made all the rouged cheeks look quite pale! Little
Edy gave me a bunch of real flowers that she had picked in the country the day before.

Young Norman Forbes-Robertson was the Moses of the original cast. He played the part again
at the Lyceum. How charming he was! And how very, very young! He at once gave promise of being
a good actor and of having done the right thing in following his brother on to the stage. At
the present day I consider him the only actor on the stage who can play Shakespeare's fools
as they should be played.

Among the girls "walking on" was Kate Rorke. This made me take a special interest in watching
what she did later on. No one who saw her fine performance in "The Profligate" could easily
forget it, and I shall never understand why the London public ever let her go.

It was during the run of "Olivia" that Henry Irving became sole lessee of the Lyceum Theater.
For a long time he had been contemplating the step, but it was one of such magnitude that it
could not be done in a hurry. I daresay he found it difficult to separate from Mrs. Bateman
and from her daughter, who had for such a long time been his "leading lady." He had to be a
little cruel, not for the last time, in a career devoted unremittingly and unrelentingly to
his art and his ambition.

It was said by an idle tongue in later years that rich ladies financed Henry Irving's ventures.
The only shadow of foundation for this statement is that at the beginning of his tenancy of
the Lyceum, the Baroness Burdett-Coutts lent him a certain sum of money, every farthing of
which was repaid during the first few months of his management.

The first letter that I ever received from Henry Irving was written on July 20, 1878, from
15A, Grafton Street, the house in which he lived during the entire period of his Lyceum management.

"Dear Miss Terry,--

"I look forward to the pleasure of calling upon you on Tuesday next at two o'clock.

"With every good wish, believe me, sincerely,

"HENRY IRVING."

The call was in reference to my engagement as Ophelia. Strangely characteristic I see it now
to have been of Henry that he was content to take my powers as an actress more or less on trust.
A mutual friend, Lady Pollock, had told him that I was the very person for him; that "all London"
was talking of my Olivia; that I had acted well in Shakespeare with the Bancrofts; that I should
bring to the Lyceum Theater what players call "a personal following." Henry chose his friends
as carefully as he chose his company and his staff. He believed in Lady Pollock implicitly,
and he did not--it is possible that he could not--come and see my Olivia for himself.

I was living in Longridge Road when Henry Irving first came to see me.

Not a word of our conversation about the engagement can I remember. I did notice, however,
the great change that had taken place in the man since I had last met him in 1867. Then he
was really almost ordinary looking--with a mustache, an unwrinkled face, and a sloping forehead. He
had at first little success in politics for the reason that his party was a small minority
in Massachusetts. He was elected to the House of Representatives for the Legislature of 1853.
During that session there was a memorable struggle on the part of the Whigs to repeal so much
of the act providing for an election of delegates to a Constitutional
convention as required the election to be by secret ballot.

There was also, as an incident of this struggle, an angry contest in the joint convention of
the two Houses held for the purpose of electing some officers required by the Constitution
to be chosen by joint ballot. The dispute related to the extent of the authority of the President
of the Senate, as presiding officer, to control the joint assembly. Butler was conspicuous in that
scene of turbulence and disorder. On the occasion of some ruling by the Whig Speaker, Mr. George
Bliss, a worthy and respectable old gentleman, Butler called out
in a loud voice: "I should like to knife that old cuss."

That utterance was quoted not only all over the Union, but in foreign countries, in England, and
on the continent, and in the West Indies, as a proof of the degradation and licentiousness
of popular governments. It is a singular fact that a like question as to the authority of
the presiding officer of a joint convention of two legislative bodies came up in Congress when the
electoral vote was counted, at the time of the election of General Grant in 1868. Butler repeated
on a larger stage his disorderly conduct, until Schuyler Colfax,
Speaker of the House-- although Mr. Wade, President of the Senate,
was then presiding over the joint convention-- resumed the chair of
the House, in order, as Mr. Blaine described it afterward, "to chastise
the insolence of the member from Massachusetts."

He was chosen in 1860, when the Democratic Party was divided between the supporters of Douglas and the
supporters of Breckenridge, a delegate to the National Convention
at Charleston, South Carolina, by the Douglas Democrats of Massachusetts,
under instructions to vote for Douglas.

Instead, he voted thirty-seven times for Jefferson Davis. There has been but one other instance, I
believe, in the history of Massachusetts of such a betrayal of trust. That other related not to candidates
but to principles.

Under our political arrangements the presidential elector is but a scribe. He exercises no discretion,
but only records the will of the people who elect him. The real selection of the president is made
by the nominating conventions. The nominee of the party having a majority becomes the president.
A breach of trust by a delegate to a nominating convention is an
act of dishonor of the same class with that to which no presidential
elector in the United States has yet stooped-- a breach of trust by
an elector.

General Butler's career upon the national stage began with the episode at Charleston. From that
time until his death he was a very conspicuous figure in the eyes of the whole country. There
are two or three public services for which he deserves credit. They ought not to be omitted in
any fair sketch of his life and character.

First. When, in the earlier days of the Rebellion, there was a doubt whether the Democratic Party would
rally to the support of the country, he promptly offered his services. His example was of
great importance in determining the question whether the war of sections
was also to be a war of parties.

He had a large clientage, especially among that class of Irish Americans who were apt in Massachusetts
to vote with the Democratic Party. His conduct so far was in honorable contrast with that of
some of his influential political associates, and that of some of
the old Whigs who never got over their chagrin at the success of the
Republican Party.

Second. When the question what would be the treatment of the negroes by the commanders of the
Union army was doubtful, and when many persons wished to conciliate the old slaveholders in the
border states by disclaiming any purpose of meddling with the institution of slavery, General
Butler made a bright and important contribution to the discussion by declaring the negro "contraband
of war." I do not know whether this phrase was original with him or no. It has been claimed
that he borrowed it. But he undoubtedly made it famous. This tended somewhat to obliterate
the effect of the shock caused to the lovers of liberty by his offer
to the Governor of Maryland on the day his regiment landed at Annapolis,
of his own services and those of the forces under his command, to
put down any slave insurrection, in case the negro people should attempt
to assert their heaven-born rights.

Henry once told me that in the early part of his career, before I knew him, he had been hooted
because of his thin legs. The first service I did him was to tell him they were beautiful,
and to make him give up padding them.

"What do you want with fat, podgy, prize-fighter legs!" I expostulated.

Praise to some people at certain stages of their career is more developing than blame. I admired
the very things in Henry for which other people criticized him. I hope this helped him a little.

I brought help, too, in pictorial matters. Henry Irving had had little training in such matters--I
had had a great deal. Judgment about colors, clothes and lighting must be trained. I had learned
from Mr. Watts, from Mr. Godwin, and from other artists, until a sense of decorative effect
had become second nature to me.

Before the rehearsals of "Hamlet" began at the Lyceum I went on a provincial tour with Charles
Kelly, and played for the first time in "Dora," and "Iris," besides doing a steady round of
old parts. In Birmingham I went to see Henry's Hamlet. (I have tried already, most inadequately,
to say what it was to me.) I had also appeared for the first time as Lady Teazle--a part which
I wish I was not too old to play now, for I could play it better. My performance in 1877 was
not finished enough, not light enough. I think I did the screen scene well. When the screen
was knocked over I did not stand still and rigid with eyes cast down. That seemed to me an
attitude of guilt. Only a guilty woman, surely, in such a situation would assume an air of
conscious virtue. Mr. Greene made a careful study of the bill and agreed with me.

The Boston Herald also obtained all the material from Washington and
sent it to a very able gentleman who, though not taking any part in
the ordinary conduct of the Herald, was called upon for services requiring
special ability and investigation.

They asked him to answer my letter. He spent five days in studying the matter, and then wrote
to the managing editor of the paper than Mr. Hoar was entirely right, and that he should not
write the article desired. The Herald, however, did not abandon its
position. It kept up the war.

But I ought to say it so far modified its action that it supported me for reelection the next
winter.

The Springfield Republican saw and seized its opportunity. It attacked the River and Harbor
Bill savagely. It said: "Mr. Hoar is a candidate for reelection and has dealt himself a very
severe blow. The Commonwealth was prepared to honor Messrs. Crapo and Hoar anew. To-day it
pauses, frowns and reflects." So it kept up the attack.

It had previously advocated the selection of Mr. Crapo as candidate for Governor. It bitterly
denounced me. Mr. Crapo had himself voted for the River and Harbor Bill. It could not consistently maintain
its bitter opposition to me, because of my vote, while supporting Mr. Crapo. So it declared
it could no longer support him.

When the State Convention came the feeling was still strong, though
somewhat abated. He was engaged to the beautiful
Adelaide Neilson, an actress whose brilliant career was cut off suddenly when she was riding
in the Bois. She drank a glass of milk when she was overheated, was taken ill, and died. I
am told that she commanded £700 a week in America, and in England people went wild over her
Juliet. She looked like a child of the warm South, although she was born, I think, in Manchester,
and her looks were much in her favor as Juliet. The State Department of Agriculture has arranged
for the planting of these oaks, and the periodical record of their
measurements, so that a valuable basis will be established for an
experiment that may be carried on for a century, or more; and we,
the archaeologists of the nineteenth century, shall have wiped away
the stigma implied in the old Aberdeen Baillie's remark, that as Posteerity
had never done anything for us, we ought not to do anything for posteerity!
 He has done as much to make
country audiences familiar with them as Mr. Benson has done to make them familiar with Shakespeare.

I come now to the Lyceum rehearsals of November, 1878. Although Henry Irving had played Hamlet
for over two hundred nights in London, and for I don't know how many nights in the provinces,
he always rehearsed in cloak and rapier. The Democratic party submitted to their disappointment
in a manner which was on the whole exceedingly praiseworthy. This was due very largely to
the influence of Mr. Lamar, of Mississippi, and I suppose to that
of Mr. Bayard, of Delaware.

