479)

I.  Domitian was born upon the ninth of the calends of November [24th October] [795], when
his father was consul elect, (being to enter upon his office the month following,) in the sixth
region of the city, at the Pomegranate [796], in the house which he afterwards converted into
a temple of the Flavian family.  He is said to have spent the time of his youth in so much
want and infamy, that he had not one piece of plate belonging to him; and it is well known,
that Clodius Pollio, a man of pretorian rank, against whom there is a poem of Nero's extant,
entitled Luscio, kept a note in his hand-writing, which he sometimes produced, in which Domitian
made an assignation with him for the foulest purposes. Some, likewise, have said, that he prostituted
himself to Nerva, who succeeded him.  In the war with Vitellius, he fled into the Capitol with
his uncle Sabinus, and a part of the troops they had in the city [797]. But the enemy breaking
in, and the temple being set on fire, he hid himself all night with the sacristan; and next
morning, assuming the disguise of a worshipper of Isis, and mixing with the priests of that
idle superstition, he got over the Tiber [798], with only one attendant, to the house of a
woman who was the mother of one of his school-fellows, and lurked there so close, that, though
the enemy, who were at his heels, searched very strictly after him, they could not discover
him.  At last, after the success of his party, appearing in public, and being unanimously saluted
by the title of Caesar, he assumed the office of praetor of the City, with consular authority,
but in fact had nothing but the name; for the jurisdiction he transferred to his next colleague.
He used, however, his absolute (480) power so licentiously, that even then he plainly discovered
what sort of prince he was likely to prove.  Not to go into details, after he had made free
with the wives of many men of distinction, he took Domitia Longina from her husband, Aelias
Lamia, and married her; and in one day disposed of above twenty offices in the city and the
provinces; upon which Vespasian said several times, "he wondered he did not send him a successor
too."

II.  He likewise designed an expedition into Gaul and Germany [799], without the least necessity
for it, and contrary to the advice of all his father's friends; and this he did only with the
view of equalling his brother in military achievements and glory.  But for this he was severely
reprimanded, and that he might the more effectually be reminded of his age and position, was
made to live with his father, and his litter had to follow his father's and brother's carriage,
as often as they went abroad; but he attended them in their triumph for the conquest of Judaea
[800], mounted on a white horse.  Of the six consulships which he held, only one was ordinary;
and that he obtained by the cession and interest of his brother.  He greatly affected a modest
behaviour, and, above all, a taste for poetry; insomuch, that he rehearsed his performances
in public, though it was an art he had formerly little cultivated, and which he afterwards
despised and abandoned.  Devoted, however, as he was at this time to poetical pursuits, yet
when Vologesus, king of the Parthians, desired succours against the Alani, with one of Vespasian's
sons to command them, he laboured hard to procure for himself that appointment. But the scheme
proving abortive, he endeavoured by presents and promises to engage other kings of the East
to make a similar request.  After his father's death, he was for some time in doubt, whether
he should not offer the soldiers a donative double to that of his brother, and made no scruple
of saying frequently, "that he had been left his partner in the empire, but that his father's
will had been fraudulently set aside.