The Princess de Montpensier

by

Mme. de Lafayette

Introduction

By

Oliver C. Colt

This story was written by Madame de Lafayette and published anonymously in 1662. It is set
in a period almost 100 years previously during the sanguinary wars of the counter-reformation,
when the Catholic rulers of Europe, with the encouragement of the Papacy, were bent on extirpating
the followers of the creeds of Luther and Calvin. I am not qualified to embark on a historical
analysis, and shall do no more than say that many of the persons who are involved in the tale
actually existed, and the events referred to actually took place. The weak and vicious King
and his malign and unscrupulous mother are real enough, as is a Duc de Montpensier, a Prince
of the Blood, who achieved some notoriety for the cruelty with which he treated any Huguenots
who fell into his hands, and for the leadership he gave to the assassins during the atrocious
massacre of St. Bartholomew's day.

He was married and had progeny, but the woman to whom he was married was not the heroine of
this romance, who is a fictional character, as is the Comte de Chabannes.

The Duc de Guise of the period whose father had been killed fighting against the Protestants,
did marry the Princess de Portein, but this was for political reasons and not to satisfy the
wishes of a Princess de Montpensier.

It will be noticed, I think, that women were traded in marriage with little or no regard to
their personal emotions, and no doubt, as has been remarked by others, marriages without love
encouraged love outside marriage. Whatever the reality, the literary conventions of the time
seem to have dictated that we should be treated only to ardent glances, fervent declarations,
swoonings and courtly gestures; we are not led even to the bedroom door, let alone the amorous
couch. I wonder, however, if the reader might not think that this little tale written more
than three hundred years ago contains the elements of many of the romantic novels and soap
operas which have followed it.

At one level it is a cautionary tale about the consequences of marital infidelity; at another
it is a story of a woman betrayed, treated as a pretty bauble for the gratification of men,
and cast aside when she has served her purpose, or a butterfly trapped in a net woven by uncaring
fate. Her end is rather too contrived for modern taste, but, even today, characters who are
about to be written out of the plot in soap operas are sometimes smitten by mysterious and
fatal disorders of the brain.

The unfortunate Comte de Chabannes is the archetypical "decent chap," the faithful but rejected
swain who sacrifices himself for the welfare of his beloved without expectation of reward.
In the hands of another writer, with some modification, he could have provided a happy ending
in the "Mills and Boon" tradition.

This translation is not a schoolroom exercise, for although I have not altered the story, I
have altered the exact way in which it is told in the original, with the aim of making it more
acceptable to the modern reader. Whether I have succeeded in my task, only the reader can say.

The Princess de Montpensier

By

Madame de Lafayette

Translated by Oliver C. Colt

Mézières

It was while the civil war of religion was tearing France apart that the only daughter of the
Marquis of Mézières, a very considerable heiress, both because of her wealth and the illustrious
house of Anjou from which she was descended, was promised in marriage to the Duc de Maine,
the younger brother of the Duc de Guise.

The marriage was delayed because of the youth of this heiress, but the elder of the brothers,
the Duc de Guise, who saw much of her, and who saw also the burgeoning of what was to become
a great beauty, fell in love with her and was loved in return. They concealed their feelings
with great care; the Duc de Guise, who had not yet become as ambitious as he was to become
later, wanted desperately to marry her, but fear of angering his uncle, the Cardinal de Lorraine,
who had taken the place of his dead father, prevented him from making any declaration.

This was how the matter stood when the ruling house of Bourbon, who could not bear to see any
benefit accruing to that of de Guise, decided to step in and reap the profit themselves by
marrying this heiress to the Prince de Montpensier.

This project was pursued with such vigour that the parents of Mlle. de Mézières, despite the
promises given to the Cardinal de Lorraine, resolved to give her in marriage to the young Prince.
The house of de Guise was much displeased at this, but the Duc himself was overcome by grief,
and regarded this as an insupportable affront. In spite of warnings from his uncles, the Cardinal
and the Duc de Aumale--who did not wish to stand in the way of something which they could not
prevent--he expressed himself with so much violence, even in the presence of the Prince de
Montpensier, that a mutual enmity arose between them which lasted all their lives.

Mlle. de Mézières, urged by her parents to marry the Prince, realised that it was impossible
for her to marry the Duc de Guise, and that if she married his brother, the Duc de Maine, she
would be in the dangerous position of having as a brother-in-law a man whom she wished was
her husband; so she agreed finally to marry the Prince and begged the Duc de Guise not to continue
to place any obstacle in the way.

The marriage having taken place, the Prince de Montpensier took her off to his estate of Champigny,
which was where Princes of his family usually lived, in order to remove her from Paris, where
it seemed that an outbreak of fighting was imminent: this great city being under threat of
siege by a Huguenot army led by the Prince de Condé, who had once more declared war on the King.

The Prince de Montpensier had, when a very young man, formed a close friendship with the Comte
de Chabannes, a man considerably older than himself and of exemplary character. The Comte in
turn had been so much influenced by the esteem and friendship of the Prince that he had broken
off influential connections which he had with the Prince de Condé, and had declared for the
Catholics; a change of sides which, having no other foundation, was regarded with suspicion:
so much so that the Queen Mother, Catherine de Medici, on the declaration of war by the Huguenots,
proposed to have him imprisoned. The Prince de Montpensier prevented this and carried him away
to Champigny when he went there with his wife. The Comte being a very pleasant, amiable man
soon gained the approbation of the Princess and before long she regarded him with as much friendship
and confidence as did her husband. Chabannes, for his part, observed with admiration the beauty,
sense and modesty of the young Princess, and used what influence he had to instill in her thoughts
and behaviour suited to her elevated position; so that under his guidance she became one of
the most accomplished women of her time.

The Prince having gone back to the Court, where he was needed owing to the continuation of
the war, the Comte lived alone with the Princess and continued to treat her with the respect
due to her rank and position. The Princess took him so far into her confidence as to tell him
of the feelings she had once had for the Duc de Guise, but she intimated that there remained
only enough of this emotion to prevent her heart from straying elsewhere and that this remnant,
together with her wifely virtue made it impossible for her to respond, except with a rebuff,
to any possible suitor.

The Comte who recognised her sincerity and who saw in her a character wholly opposed to flirtation
and gallantry, did not doubt the truth of her words; but nevertheless he was unable to resist
all the charms which he saw daily so close to him. He fell deeply in love with the Princess,
in spite of the shame he felt at allowing himself to be overcome by this illicit passion. However
although not master of his heart, he was master of his actions; the change in his emotions
did not show at all in his behaviour, and no none suspected him. He took, for a whole year,
scrupulous care to hide his feelings from the Princess and believed that he would always be
able to do so.

Love, however, had the same effect on him as it does on everyone, he longed to speak of it,
and after all the struggles which are usually made on such occasions, he dared to tell her
of his devotion. He had been prepared to weather the storm of reproach which this might arouse,
but he was greeted with a calm and a coolness which was a thousand times worse than the outburst
which he had expected. She did not take the trouble to be angry. She pointed out in a few words
the difference in their rank and ages, she reminded him of what she had previously said about
her attitude to suitors and above all to the duty he owed to the confidence and friendship
of the Prince her husband. The Comte was overwhelmed by shame and distress. She tried to console
him by assuring him that she would forget entirely what he had just said to her and would always
look on him as her best friend; assurances which were small consolation to the Comte as one
might imagine. He felt the disdain which was implicit in all that the Princess had said, and
seeing her the next day with her customary untroubled looks redoubled his misery.

The Princess continued to show him the same goodwill as before and even discussed her former
attachment to the Duc de Guise, saying that she was pleased that his increasing fame showed
that he was worthy of the affection she had once had for him. These demonstrations of confidence,
which were once so dear to the Comte, he now found insupportable, but he did not dare say as
much to the Princess, though he did sometimes remind her of what he had so rashly confessed to her.

After an absence of two years, peace having been declared, the Prince de Montpensier returned
to his wife, his renown enhanced by his behaviour at the siege of Paris and the battle of St.
Denis. He was surprised to find the beauty of the Princess blooming in such perfection, and
being of a naturally jealous disposition he was a little put out of humour by the realisation
that this beauty would be evident to others beside himself. He was delighted to see once more
the Comte, for whom his affection was in no way diminished. He asked him for confidential details
about his wife's character and temperament, for she was almost a stranger to him because of
the little time during which they had lived together. The Comte, with the utmost sincerity,
as if he himself were not enamoured, told the Prince everything he knew about the Princess
which would encourage her husband's love of her, and he also suggested to Madame de Montpensier
all the measures she might take to win the heart and respect of her spouse. The Comte's devotion
led him to think of nothing but what would increase the happiness and wellbeing of the Princess
and to forget without difficulty the interest which lovers usually have in stirring up trouble
between the objects of their affection and their marital partners.

The peace was only shortlived. War soon broke out again by reason of a plot by the King to
arrest the Prince de Condé and Admiral Chatillon at Noyers. As a result of the military preparations
the Prince de Montpensier was forced to leave his wife and report for duty. Chabannes, who
had been restored to the Queen's favour, went with him. It was not without much sorrow that
he left the Princess, while she, for her part, was distressed to think of the perils to which
the war might expose her husband.

The leaders of the Huguenots retired to La Rochelle. They held

Poitou and Saintongne; the war flared up again and the King assembled all his troops. His brother,
the Duc d'Anjou, who later became Henri III, distinguished himself by his deeds in various
actions, amongst others the battle of Jarnac, in which the Prince de Condé was killed. It was
during this fighting that the Duc de Guise began to play a more important part and to display
some of the great qualities which had been expected of him. The Prince de Montpensier, who
hated him, not only as a personal enemy but as an enemy of his family, the Bourbons, took no
pleasure in his successes nor in the friendliness shown toward him by the Duc d'Anjou.

After the two armies had tired themselves out in a series of minor actions, by common consent
they were stood down for a time. The Duc d'Anjou stayed at Loches to restore to order all the
places which had been attacked. The Duc de Guise stayed with him and the Prince de Montpensier,
accompanied by the Comte de Chabannes, went back to Champigny, which was not far away.

The Duc d'Anjou frequently went to inspect places where fortifications were being constructed.
One day when he was returning to Loches by a route which his staff did not know well, the Duc
de Guise, who claimed to know the way, went to the head of the party to act as guide, but after
a time he became lost and arrived at the bank of a small river which he did not recognise.
The Duc d'Anjou had a few words to say to him for leading them astray, but while they were
held up there they saw a little boat floating on the river, in which--the river not being very
wide--they could see the figures of three or four women, one of whom, very pretty and sumptuously
dressed, was watching with interest the activities of two men who were fishing nearby.

This spectacle created something of a sensation amongst the Princes and their suite. It seemed
to them like an episode from a romance. Some declared that it was fate that had led the Duc
de Guise to bring them there to see this lovely lady, and that they should now pay court to
her. The Duc d'Anjou maintained that it was he who should be her suitor.

To push the matter a bit further, they made one of the horsemen go into the river as far as
he could and shout to the lady that it was the Duc d'Anjou who wished to cross to the other
bank and who begged the lady to take him in her boat. The lady, who was of course the Princess
de Montpensier, hearing that it was the Duc d'Anjou, and having no doubt when she saw the size
of his suite that it was indeed him, took her boat over to the bank where he was. His fine
figure made him easily distinguishable from the others; she, however, distinguished even more
easily the figure of the Duc de Guise. This sight disturbed her and caused her to blush a little
which made her seem to the Princes to have an almost supernatural beauty.

The Duc de Guise recognised her immediately in spite of the changes which had taken place in
her appearance in the three years since he had last seen her. He told the Duc d'Anjou who she
was and the Duc was at first embarrassed at the liberty he had taken, but then, struck by the
Princess's beauty, he decided to venture a little further, and after a thousand excuses and
a thousand compliments he invented a serious matter which required his presence on the opposite
bank, and accepted the offer which she made of a passage in her boat. He got in, accompanied
only by the Duc de Guise, giving orders to his suite to cross the river elsewhere and to join
him at Champigny, which Madame de Montpensier told him was not more than two leagues from there.

As soon as they were in the boat the Duc d'Anjou asked to what they owed this so pleasant encounter.
Madame de Montpensier replied that having left Champigny with the Prince her husband with the
intention of following the hunt, she had become tired and having reached the river bank she
had gone out in the boat to watch the landing of a salmon which had been caught in a net. The
Duc de Guise did not take part in this conversation, but he was conscious of the re-awakening
of all the emotions which the Princess had once aroused in him, and thought to himself that
he would have difficulty in escaping from this meeting without falling once more under her spell.

They arrived shortly at the bank where they found the Princess's horses and her attendants
who had been waiting for her. The two noblemen helped her onto her horse where she sat with
the greatest elegance. During their journey back to Champigny they talked agreeably about a
number of subjects and her companions were no less charmed by her conversation than they had
been by her beauty. They offered her a number of compliments to which she replied with becoming
modesty, but a little more coolly to those from M. de Guise, for she wished to maintain a distance
which would prevent him from founding any expectations on the feelings she had once had towards
him.

When they arrived at the outer courtyard of Champigny they encountered the Prince de Montpensier,
who had just returned from the hunt. He was greatly astonished to see two men in the company
of his wife, and he was even more astonished when, on coming closer, he saw that these were
the Duc d'Anjou and the Duc de Guise. The hatred which he bore for the latter, combined with
his naturally jealous disposition made him find the sight of these two Princes with his wife,
without knowing how they came to be there or why they had come to his house, so disagreeable
that he was unable to conceal his annoyance. He, however, adroitly put this down to a fear
that he could not receive so mighty a Prince as the King's brother in a style befitting his
rank. The Comte de Chabannes was even more upset at seeing the Duc de Guise and Madame de Montpensier
together than was her husband, it seemed to him a most evil chance which had brought the two
of them together again, an augury which foretold disturbing sequels to follow this new beginning.

In the evening Madame de Montpensier acted as hostess with the same grace with which she did
everything. In fact she pleased her guests a little too much. The Duc d'Anjou who was very
handsome and very much a ladies man, could not see a prize so much worth winning without wishing
ardently to make it his own. He had a touch of the same sickness as the Duc de Guise, and continuing
to invent important reasons, he stayed for two days at Champigny, without being obliged to
do so by anything but the charms of Madame de Montpensier, for her husband did not make any
noticeable effort to detain him. The Duc de Guise did not leave without making it clear to
Madame de Momtpensier that he felt towards her as he had done in the past. As nobody knew of
this former relationship he said to her several times, in front of everybody, that his affections
were in no way changed. A remark which only she understood.

Both he and the Duc d'Anjou left Champigny with regret. For a long time they went along in
silence; but at last it occurred to the Duc d'Anjou that the reflections which occupied his
thoughts might be echoed in the mind of the Duc de Guise, and he asked him brusquely if he
was thinking about the beauties of Madame de Montpensier. This blunt question combined with
what he had already observed of the Prince's behaviour made the Duc realise that he had a rival
from whom it was essential that his own love for the Princess should be concealed. In order
to allay all suspicion he answered with a laugh that the Prince himself had seemed so preoccupied
with the thoughts which he was accused of having that he had deemed it inadvisable to interrupt
him; the beauty of Madame de Montpensier was, he said, nothing new to him, he had been used
to discounting its effect since the days when she was destined to be his sister-in-law, but
he saw that not everyone was so little dazzled. The Duc d'Anjou admitted that he had never
seen anyone to compare with this young Princess and that he was well aware that the vision
might be dangerous if he was exposed to it too often. He tried to get the Duc de Guise to confess
that he felt the same, but the Duc would admit to nothing.

On their return to Loches they often recalled with pleasure the events which had led to their
meeting with the Princess de Montpensier, a subject which did not give rise to the same pleasure
at Champigny. The Prince de Montpensier was dissatisfied with all that had happened without
being able to say precisely why. He found fault with his wife for being in the boat. He considered
that she had welcomed the Princes too readily; and what displeased him most was that he had
noticed the attention paid to her by the Duc de Guise. This had provoked in him a furious bout
of jealousy in which he recalled the anger displayed by the Duc at the prospect of his marriage,
which caused him to suspect that even at that time the Duc was in love with his wife. The Comte
de Chabannes as usual made every effort to act as peacemaker, hoping in this way to show the
Princess that his devotion to her was sincere and disinterested. He could not resist asking
her what effect the sight of the Duc de Guise had produced. She replied that she had been somewhat
upset and embarrassed at the memory of the feelings she had once displayed to him; she found
him more handsome than he had been then and it had seemed to her that he wished to persuade
her that he still loved her, but she assured the Comte that nothing would shake her determination
not to become involved in any intrigue. The Comte was happy to hear of this resolve, but he
was far from being sure about the Duc de Guise. He earnestly warned the Princess of the danger
of a return to the previous situation should she have any change of heart, though when he spoke
of his devotion she adopted her invariable attitude of looking on him as her closest friend
but in no way a possible suitor.

The armies were once more called up; all the Princes returned to their posts and the Prince
de Montpensier decided that his wife should come with him to Paris so as to be further from
the area where it was expected that fighting would take place. The Huguenots besieged Poitiers.
The Duc de Guise went there to organise the defence and, while there, enhanced his reputation
by his conduct. The Duc d'Anjou suffered from some illness, and left the army either on account
of the severity of this or because he wanted to return to the comfort and security of Paris,
where the presence of the Princess de Montpensier was not the least of the attractions. The
command of the army was taken over by the Prince de Montpensier, and shortly after this, a
peace having been arranged, the Court assembled in Paris. Here the beauty of the Princess eclipsed
that of all her rivals. She charmed everyone by her looks and personality. The Duc d'Anjou
did not abandon the sentiments she had inspired in him at Champigny, he took great care to
make her aware of this by all sorts of delicate considerations, being careful at the same time
not to make his attentions too obvious for fear of arousing the jealousy of her husband. The
Duc de Guise was now fervently in love with her, but wishing, for a variety of reasons, to
keep this secret, he resolved to tell her so privately and avoid any preliminaries which, as
always, would give rise to talk and exposure. One day when he was in the Queen's apartments
where there were very few people, the Queen having left to discuss affairs of state with Cardinal
de Lorraine, the Princess de Montpensier arrived. He decided to take this opportunity to speak
to her, and going up to her he said, "Although it may surprise and displease you, I want you
to know that I have always felt for you that emotion which you once knew so well, and that
its power has been so greatly increased by seeing you again that neither your disapproval,
the hatred of your husband, nor the rivalry of the first Prince in the kingdom can in the least
diminish it. It would perhaps have been more tactful to have let you become aware of this by
my behaviour rather than by my words, but my behaviour would have been evident to others as
well as to yourself and I wanted you alone to know of my love for you."

The Princess was so surprised and thrown into confusion by this speech that she could not think
of an answer, then, just when she had collected her wits and begun to reply, the Prince de
Montpensier entered the room. 

As nimbly replied the good, sensible mother, "but two men standing like rocks against each other! Unmoved
and proud, no one wants the other approach, none to the good words, the first, tongue movements.
Therefore I tell you, son, is still alive the hope in my heart that them to you if she is
well and good, become engaged, though poor, he also held her arms has failed. For he speaks of
many things in his violent way, he accomplishes the not yet; it is also that failed. But a good word
he wants and can demand it, because he is the father! We also know, his anger is after dinner,
where he speaks more violent and other reasons doubted, never much, and it stirs the wine
then any power on his strong will and he can not hear the words of others, he hears and feels
alone himself. But it comes close the evening, and the many calls are now between him and changed
his friends. Milder he is for real, I know, if by the Raeuschchen And he feels is the wrong
that he created another lively. Come! We dare the same; the freshness, and are stepping only, and
we need the friends who gathered jetzo still with him Seats, especially will help the worthy
priest. "

So she spoke and moved nimbly from stones, lifting, too, from the seat of the son, the willing
following. Both came down in silence, thinking through the important
intent.

Polyhymnia, the world citizens

But there sat the three of them still speaking, with the spiritual master of the pharmacist
the hosts, and it was the talk is still just the same, the much back and forth for all Pages
was led. But the excellent pastor replied, worthy disposed towards it, "a conflict I do not
want you. I know it, one should always strive for the better, and how we see, he always strives for
higher things, the least he tries something new. But is not too far! Was this because in addition
to the nature of our feelings, the desire to remain in And to old friends of what each one
is long lived. Every condition is good, of course and reasonable. Much desired by the man,
yet he needs only slightly because the Days are short, and restricted the mortal fate. Never TADL
I the man who accessible, active and restless, the other shoots, the sea and all the streets of
the earth, busily Kuehn travel on the profit and rejoice, which is abundant around him and to
his family accumulates, but that is also worth to me, the quiet citizens, his paternal heritage
with silent Umgehet steps and takes care of the earth, as it enjoin the hours. Not be changed him in
each year of the soil, non-stretched piece of the tree, the newly planted, arms counter the sky,
adorned with abundant blooms. Because only a few seeds he trusts the nourishing Earth, he understands
only a few animals, mehrend to consider, for the Useful remains to be alone whole idea. Happy is
he who gave nature such a mind tuned! He honors us all erna. And hail to the citizens of this
small town, which combines business with Rurally Buergergewerb! On it is not the pressure, the anxious
policy restrictions to the country man, do not confuse Him the concern of the much sought-dwellers
into the Reich and the ever higher, less wealthy, Are used to imitate,
especially the women and girls.

Bless them always to the Son quiet endeavor and the wife, who once he, like-minded to Choose
ye. "

So, he said. There was also a mother with her son, Leading him by the hand and before the husband
REPRESENTATIONS him. "Father," she said, "how many times we thought, chatting with each other,
of the happy day come that would, if future Hermann, his bride elect, we all were at last!
Back and forth as we thought, now this, now that certain girl we with him parental chatter.
Now he is coming, the day and now has the bride of him Heaven brought here and shown that
it has decided his heart now. Did we not then always, he should choose to own? Wish you not
even earlier, he would like gay and lively feel for a girl?

Now the hour has come! Yes, he has felt and elected and is decidedly male. That girl is it
that the woman, who met him.

Give it to him, or he stays, he swore in the unmarried status. "

And the son said: "The give me father My heart has chosen clean and safe, you it is the worthy
daughter. "

But the father was silent. There was the priest quickly, took the floor and said: "The Moment
only decides on the life of man and all his fortunes, For after a long discussion but every decision
is only the work of the moment, but it takes only Verstaend'ge of the rights. More and more
dangerous is it, when you select this and that, alongside to consider and so confusing the feeling.
Hermann Rein is, I know him from childhood, Even as a boy and he reached the hands not look
like this and that. What he sought, According to him was, he thought it was also found. Do not
be shy and surprised that now once appeareth what you wished for so long. It has the appearance
is not as true now the shape of desire, just as you about him geheget. Because the wishes us
conceal themselves what you want, the gifts come from above, in their own form. Now bring Ennetbürgen
it is not the girl that your loved ones, good and reasonably son first moves the soul added.
Happy is he to whom sufficient once the first lover's hand, To the
sweetest Desire not secretly languishing in the heart!

Yes, I see him, it is his destiny decided. True affection for her husband completed once the youth.
Not movable he, I'm afraid you fail him this, then go the years, the most beautiful, in a sad
Life. "

Since the pharmacist immediately replied slowly, jumping to a long word from the lip was ready:
"Let us enter this time but only the means the road Ludo was himself Emperor Augustus' motto. I
am happy to send me to serve the dear neighbor, need my little mind
to their benefit: And especially need young people that to guide them.

Let me out so, I will examine it, the girl, Will the community To interview in which she lives and
known. No one betriegt me so easily, I know the words to appreciate. "

As once the son replied, with winged words: "Do it, neighbor, and goes and asks You. But I wish that
the pastor is also nearby, in your society; Two Men are such excellent unverwerfliche witnesses.
Oh, my father! it is not, hurrying, the girl, not that roams through the land of adventure, and ensnared
the young man, the inexperienced, with plots. No, the fate of wild allverderblichen War, The
the World destroyed and lifted some solid building already on the ground that the arms had
driven. Strips are not wonderful men of high birth now in misery? Princes disguised flee king's
life and utterly. Oh, so is she, by her sisters the best, from the Country driven, forgetting
her own accident, she is in others, is still without aid remedy. Gross misery and hardship, which
over the earth is wide, if not go forth a blessing from this accident
and I, in the arms of the bride, wife of the reliable, Me not enjoy
the war, freutet like you the fire you?

"

Then said the father, and did much on the lips: "How is my son, you solved the tongue, already in
the mouth you many years to solidify and only meager moving! Do I have it today To learn what
every father is threatened: that the will of the son, the violent, like the mother Too lenient
and favored every neighbor takes sides, when it hergeht about the father now or Ehmann. But I
will not resist together, what of 'it?

For I see But even here, despite tears and in advance. Go and examine them in the name of God and
brings the Daughter to my home and if not, he may forget the girl! "

So the father. It said the son with joyful gesture: "Before you is the most excellent evening
Bestowed daughter, as she wishes the man himself, the home of a wise sense of the chest. The
good is happy then, I may hope so. Yes, they thank me for ever, that I her father and mother
again given you, as it sensible family plans. But I do not zaudre, I direct the horse harnesses
and lead the friends out into the Trace of the lover, leave the men themselves and their own wisdom,
lessons, so I swear to you, me all the way to its decision, and I do not see it again until it
is mine, the girl. "And so he went out, however, many considered the others wisely and quickly
discussed the important thing. Hurry ', he lays them out on the bare teeth, Pulled the strap immediately
by the beautiful silver buckles attached, and then the long, wider reins, led the horses out in
the yard where the willing servant already advanced the coach, they move easily on the drawbar. Measured
They picked up on it on the scale Stricken with clean his speed of slightly drawn-out horses.
Hermann took the whip; Then he sat and roll 'in the doorway. When the friends are now equal
to the spacious seats taken in a hurry and left the car rolled back the patch, left behind
the walls the city and the neat towers. Said Hermann then drove to the well-known road, Quickly,
and do not tarry and went uphill as mountainous as. But as he is now the tower of the And
saw the village not far more were the garden surrounding houses,
thought he to himself itself, now to stop the horses.

By paying homage to the dark sublime Linden overshadowed for centuries to have this opportunity
rooted War, covers a wide green lawn with finished Anger Before the village, the farmers and nearby
cities, a pleasure resort. dug flat was under the trees a well. Rose one down the steps, then
showed stone benches, ring placed around the source, which always life gushed, cleanliness,
taken with a low wall, to draw more comfortable. Hermann but decided to keep the horses in the
shade with the car. He did so and said the words: "Embark, friends, and is now out, so you
may know if the girl also worth the hand was that I offer her. Although I believe it, and I told
her nothing new and Rare; Had I to do alone, so did I nimbly toward the village, and a few
words would decide the fate of my best. And you will soon see it above all others, For is probably
difficult to her an education comparable. But I still give you the signs of neat clothes: Because
of the red bib gewoelbeten elevates the breasts, beauty laced, and It is the black bodice of her short;
Sauber she has folded the hem of the shirt to Krause, Ye that surrounding the chin, the round,
with cleaner grace; shows free and clear to the head dainty Eirund Stark are many times the
braids wrapped around silver needles; Much folded Catch and blue under the bib of her skirt and turns
in the well-educated Gehn ankle. But I will tell you and yet I expressly ask: do not talk to the
girl, and remember do not be the intention, but inquire of the others and hear what they tell everything.
Have your message enough to calm, father and mother, then back to me Come back and we CONT the
mind. So I thought I made it, the way since we moved. "

So, he said. It went out to the friends of the village, where in gardens and barns and houses the amount
of people swarming, Karrn Karrn to the broad street was gone. Men served the bellowing cattle
and horse 'to the car, laundry dried diligently on all hedges the women, and it amused the
children splashing in the water of the creek. So by the cars jostling by people and animals,
they looked right and left around, the sent scouts, not whether they saw as the image of the
designated girl, But not all of the beautiful maiden appeared. More they soon found the crowd.
There was the car of armed men threatened into which, mingled with the women screaming. As soon
approached by paying homage to an old man steps up, went to the scolding way, and immediately the
din died away, when he commanded silence, and fathers seriously threatened them. "We were,"
said he, "not the accident so subdued, that we finally understand us together to tolerate
and to tolerate, if not all the acts of gauging? Intolerance for true is the lucky! Finally, the
suffering will teach you not, as usual, with the to quarrel brother? Gonnet each other along
the place on foreign soil and cleaves, What ye have; to find their mercy! "

So said the man, and all were silent; compatible uted cattle and the wagon again appeased People. But shattered
the need down the habitual way of life, Tear the building and gnaws away at the garden and seed,
Driving to the man and the woman of space, the intimate apartment Dragged her away into error,
by anxious days and nights: Oh! as seen in out who was probably the sensible man, and he speaks
no longer the glorious words in vain. Tell me, Father, you are certainly the judges of this fugitive
men, who you immediately calmed down? Yes, you appear to me today as one of the oldest leaders,
by Deserts and wandering displaced peoples passed. But I just thought, I talk to Josh or with
Moses. "

And it said it with a serious attention of the judge: "Truly, our time compares the rarest of times,
the story noted, the sacred and the vulgar. After all, who yesterday today and lived in those days,
has already spent many years: this is pressure on all stories. I thought to lie a little back,
I think a gray age on his head, and yet is the force still alive. Oh, the rest of us may compare
well with those those Gravely hour 'was released in burning bush the Lord God, to us he appeared
in the clouds and fire. "

And when the priest was inclined to speak out even further, and the fate of the man and his
family wanted to hear, the nimble companion said with secret words in his ear him: "Speak to
the judge only continue and bring the conversation to the girl But I. walk around to visit
them and come back as soon as I find them. "It nodded the priest however, and through the hedges
and gardens and barns was looking for scouts.

Klio The Age

And when the clergyman asked the foreign judges, suffered what the congregation, as long drove them
from home, said the man out, "Not just our sufferings, because we have the bitterness of all the
years of drinking, terrible, because for us the most beautiful hope was destroyed. For he who
denies it well that the heart was highly charged him the freer Beaten breast with purer pulses
heranhob When the first gloss of the new sun, as was heard from the rights of the people, all have
in common, from the exhilarating freedom and of the lichen loeb equality! At that time everyone
was hoping himself to live, and it seemed to dissolve the bond that ensnared many countries,
the oath that the self-interest and in his hand. Did not look all the peoples in those urgent
days after the capital of the world that already been so long And now more than ever deserved
the beautiful name? Were not those Men, the first proclamation of
the message, with the highest equal to under the stars are set?

Did not grow any people the courage and the spirit and the language?

And we were first, as neighbors, ignites lively. Plan the war began, and the trains armed Franks moved
closer, but she seemed to bring only friendship. And they also brought: for them increases was
the soul of all, they planted with pleasure the lively Trees of liberty, To each his own promise,
and each of the own government. A delighted is because the youth was happy old age, And the merry
dance began at the new standard. It soon gained, the vast francs, the first men spirit, with
fiery merry Begin, then the hearts of the women, with irresistible charm. Even seemed slightly vielbeduerfenden
the pressure of the war, For the hope hovered before our eyes the
distance, Attracted the attention out into neueroeffnete tracks.

Oh, how happy is the time when the bride, the bridegroom wrestling in the dance, the day the desired
compound expecting! But wonderful was the time in which we mean the
maximum, What man thinks to himself, as close and accessible was found.

Since each had solved the tongue; It said the old people, men and youths in the full high senses and
feelings.

But the sky clouded over soon. To the advantage of a corrupt government Stritt gender, unworthy
to create the good. They murdered and oppressed the new neighbors and brothers, and sent the
selfish crowd. And it prassten with us and stole the superior in the large, and it robbed
and prassten up to the little ones the little ones; Everyone seemed only concerned, it was left
for tomorrow. Too great was the distress, and daily grew Oppression, no one heard the screams,
they were the masters of the day. As was grief and anger and even a gelassnes mind, it's only
every thought, and swore that all the offense And to avenge the bitter loss of the doubly betrayed
hope. And it turned the Luck on the side of the Germans, and the Frank fled with hasty marches
back. Ah! because we felt only the sad fate of war! Because the winner is large and good; at
least he seems, and he spares the man defeated, as if it were he his, If it benefits him daily
and serve him with the goods. Volatile but has no Law, for he wards off death only, and only
consumed quickly and without any consideration for the goods. Then his mind is also heated,
and it emphasizes, the despair from the heart of the wicked start. Nothing is sacred to him more,
he robbed. The wild desire Penetrates with violence on the woman
and makes the desire to shock.

Everywhere he sees death and enjoys the last minutes of horrors, says the blood and rejoices in the
howling sorrow.

Grim got up on our men in the rage now, to avenge the lost and verteid'gen the radicals. All the weapons
seized, attracted by the rush of refugees and the pale Face uncertain and shy glances. Restless
now came the storming of the Geto bell And the kuenft'ge danger did not stop the fierce anger.
Rapidly transformed the field of construction peaceful armor now in weirs, as blood dripped
from fork and scythe. Without a pardon was the enemy, and without sparing; everywhere raced
the anger and the cowardly, treacherous weakness. Would I never see the people in this vile
aberration Again!

The furious Animal is a better sight. Speech 'he never freedom, as though "he himself ! Rule Untied
appears when the barriers of time, all the evil that the deep Law in the angular drive back. "

"Excellent man!" replied to the minister emphatically, "If it fails to recognize the people I
can see why you do not scold, but bad things Have you suffered enough forward wilderness Begin!
Did you want but back to see through the sad days, would you confess
your own, such as often your erblicktet also good.

Some excellent, which is hidden in the heart, stimulates the danger is not, and does not push
the plight of the people, that he show himself as an angel ' published the other a patron. "

Smilingly replied to the worthy old judge. "You remind me wise, how often to the burning of
the house Man of the troubled owner of gold and silver, recalls the melted remained scattered
about in the rubble now lies. , It is not true, but even the little flavorful; Impoverished
and after him graebet and says of the find. And I also like the traffic cheerful thoughts to those
few good deeds that kept the memory. Yes, I will do not deny it, I looked to reconcile enemies,
to save the city from evil, and I saw The friend, saw the cars parents
love and children's impossible, Saw how the young man at once the
man was, saw the old man is rejuvenated, the child himself as Juengling
revealed. He thought of sending the Duc away without
saying anything to the Princess, but the faithfulness with which he had promised to serve her
soon put an end to that idea. He arrived without knowing what he should do, and finding that
the Prince was out hunting, he went straight to the Princess's apartment. She saw that he was
distressed and dismissed her women in order to find out what troubled him. He told her, as
calmly as he could, that the Duc de Guise was a league distant and that he wanted passionately
to see her. The Princess gave a cry at this news and her confusion was almost as great as that
of the Comte. At first she was full of joy at the thought of seeing the man she loved so tenderly,
but when she considered how much this was against her principles, and that she could not see
her lover without introducing him into her home during the night and without her husband's
knowledge, she found herself in the utmost difficulty. The Comte awaited her reply as if it
were a matter of life or death. Realising that her silence indicated her uncertainty, he took
the liberty of presenting to her all the perils to which she would be exposed by such a meeting,
and wishing to make it clear that he was not doing this in his own interest, he said that if,
in spite of all that he had said she was determined to see the Duc, rather than see her seek
for aid from helpers less faithful than himself, he would bring the Duc to her. "Yes Madame,"
he said, "I shall go and find the Duc and bring him to your apartment, for it is too dangerous
to leave him for long where he is."

"But how can this be done?" interrupted the Princess.

"Ha! Madame," cried the Comte, "It is then decided, since you speak only of the method. I shall
lead him through the park; only order one of your maids whom you can trust to lower, exactly
at midnight, the little drawbridge which leads from your antechamber to the flower garden and
leave the rest to me." Having said this he rose and without waiting for any further comment
from the Princess, he left, remounted his horse and went to look for the Duc de Guise, who
was waiting for him with the greatest impatience.

The Princess remained in such a state of confusion that it was some time before she came to
her senses. Her first thought was to send someone after the Comte to tell him not to bring
the Duc, but she could not bring herself to do so. She then thought that failing this she had
only not to have the drawbridge lowered, and she believed that she would continue with this
resolve, but when the hour of the assignation drew near she was no longer able to resist the
desire to see the lover whom she longed for, and she gave instructions to one of her women
on the method by which the Duc was to be introduced into her apartment.

Meanwhile the Duc and the Comte were approaching Champigny, but in very differing frames of
mind. The Duc was full of joy and all the happiness of expectation. The Comte was in a mood
of despair and anger, which tempted him at times to run his sword through his rival. They at
last reached the park, where they left their horses in the care of the Duc's squire, and passing
through a gap in the wall they came to the flower garden. The Comte had always retained some
hope that the Princess would come to her senses and resolve not to see the Duc, but when he
saw that the drawbridge was lowered he realised that his hope was in vain. He was tempted to
take some desperate measure, but he was aware that any noise would be heard by the Prince de
Montpensier whose rooms looked out onto the same flower-garden, and that all the subsequent
disorder would fall on the head of the one he loved most. He calmed himself and led the Duc
to the presence of the Princess. Although the Princess signaled that she would like him to
stay in the room during the interview, he was unwilling to do so, and retired to a little passage
which ran alongside the Princess's apartment, a prey to the saddest thoughts which could afflict
a disappointed lover.

Now, although they had made very little noise while crossing the bridge, the Prince de Montpensier
was awake and heard it. He made one of his servants get up and go to see what it was. The servant
put his head out of the window and in the darkness he could make out that the drawbridge was
lowered. He told his master who then ordered him to go into the park and find out what was
going on. A moment later he got up himself, being disturbed by what he thought he had heard,
that is, footsteps on the bridge leading to his wife's quarters.

As he was going towards the little passage where the Comte was waiting, the Princess who was
somewhat embarrassed at being alone with the Duc de Guise, asked the latter several times to
come into the room. He refused to do so and as she continued to press him and as he was furiously
angry he answered her so loudly that he was heard by the Prince de Montpensier, but so indistinctly
that the Prince heard only a man's voice without being able to recognise it as that of the Comte.

These events would have infuriated a character more placid and less jealous than the Prince
de Montpensier. He hurled himself against the door, calling for it to be opened, and cruelly
surprising the Princess, the Duc de Guise and the Comte de Chabannes. This last, hearing the
Prince's voice, saw immediately that it was impossible to prevent him from believing that there
was someone in his wife's room, and that he was in such a state that if he found that it was
the Duc de Guise he might kill him before the eyes of the Princess and that even her life might
be at risk. He decided, in an act of extraordinary generosity, to sacrifice himself to save
a successful rival and an ungrateful mistress.

While the Prince was battering on the door, he went to the Duc, who had no idea what to do,
put him in the care of the woman who had arranged his entry by the bridge and told her to show
him the way out. Scarcely had he left when the Prince having broken down the door entered the
room like a man possessed. However when he saw only the Comte de Chabannes, motionless, leaning
on a table with a look of infinite sadness on his face, he stopped short. The astonishment
of finding his best friend alone at night in his wife's room deprived him of speech. The Princess
had collapsed onto some cushions and never perhaps has fate put three people in a more unhappy
position. At last the Prince made an attempt to make sense of the chaos before his eyes. He
addressed the Comte in a tone of voice which still had some friendliness, "What is this I see?"
he said, "Is it possible that a man I love so dearly has chosen among all other women to seduce
my wife? And you, Madame," he said, turning to his wife, "Was it not enough to deprive me of
your love and my honour without depriving me of the one man who could have consoled me in such
circumstances? Answer me, one of you," he said to them, "And explain this affair, which I cannot
believe is what it seems." The Princess was incapable of replying and the Comte opened his
mouth once or twice but was unable to speak.

"You see me as a criminal," he said at last. "And unworthy of the friendship you have shown
me; but the situation is not what you may think it is. I am more unhappy than you and more
despairing. I do not know how to tell you more than that. My death would avenge you, and if
you were to kill me now you would be doing me a favour." These words, spoken with an air of
the deepest sorrow, and in a manner which declared his innocence instead of enlightening the
Prince confirmed him in the view that something mysterious was going on which he did not understand.
His unhappiness was increased by this uncertainty. "Kill me yourself," he said. "Or give me
some explanation of your words for I can understand nothing. You owe it to my friendship, you
owe it to my restraint, for anyone but me would have already taken your life to avenge such
an affront."

"The appearances are wholly misleading," interrupted the Comte.

"Ah! It is too much. I must be avenged and clear things up later," said the Prince, advancing
towards the Comte like a man carried away by rage. The Princess, fearing bloodshed, (which
was not possible as her husband did not have a sword) placed herself between the two of them
and fell fainting at her husband's feet. The Prince was even more affected by this than he
was by the calmness of the Comte when he confronted him, and as if he could no longer bear
the sight of those two people who had caused him such distress, he turned away and fell on
his wife's bed, overcome by grief. The Comte de Chabannes, filled with remorse at having abused
the friendship of which he had had so many marks, and believing that he could never atone for
what he had done, left the room abruptly and passing through the Princess's apartment where
he found all the doors open, he went down to the courtyard. He had a horse brought to him and
rode off into the country led only by his feelings of hopelessness. 

"Dear mother, your's says!" replied the son on it vividly. "Yes, she's it! And fuehr I do not
as a bride my house today still draws her away, may disappear me forever In the confusion of
war and the sad back-and-Herziehn. Mother, forever nothing to me the rich are flourishing Then
in mind, in vain are my fertile future years. Yes, the familiar house and garden is repugnant to me,
Oh! and the love of the mother, herself no consolation to the poor. Because it loosens the love
I feel, any band, if they theirs ties, and not the girl alone, father and mother leaves behind
when they erwaehleten follows the man, too, the young man, he knows nothing of the mother and
father, When he sees the girl, the only draw them beloved.


The Duc's squire had been correct when he said that the Princess was seriously ill, for as
soon as her women had put her to bed she was seized by a violent fever with horrible phantasies,
so that by the second day her life was despaired of. The Prince pretended that he himself was
ill so that no one should be surprised that he did not visit his wife's room. The order which
he received to return to the Court, to which all the Catholic princes were being recalled in
preparation for the massacre of the Huguenots, relieved him of his embarrassment. He went off
to Paris without knowing what he had to hope or fear about his wife's illness. He had hardly
arrived there when the assault on the Huguenots was signalised by the attack on admiral de
Chatillon. Two days later came the disgraceful massacre, now so well known throughout Europe. 

Wilhelm thinks about all this sitting in a bower, when he was in a nearby swing someone sneak heard.
On the sad song that was sung at once, he saw the harp player. The song that he could understand
very well contained, the consolation of a tragedy which the madness feels very close. Unfortunately,
Wilhelm keep them only the last stanza.

On the doors I want to sneak quietly and modestly will I stand, pious
hand is food rich, and I will go on. He was at first shocked by this pitiful sight
and, recalling his past friendship, was grieved; but then the memory of the offence, which
he believed the Comte had committed, made him feel pleased that he had been avenged by the
hand of chance.

The Duc de Guise who had used the opportunity of the massacre to take ample revenge for the
death of his father, gradually took less and less interest in the condition of the Princess
of Montpensier; and having met the Marquise de Noirmoutier, a woman of wit and beauty, and
one who promised more than the Princess de Montpensier, he attached himself to her, an attachment
which lasted a lifetime.

The Princess's illness reached a crisis and then began to remit. She recovered her senses and
was somewhat relieved by the absence of her husband. Like, 'I would have given her more, but was empty the box. All grabbed her
feet on it to the new mother and pulled so on, and I hurried back to my Horses of the city.
"

And when Hermann ended, as the talkative neighbor took her word and called out: "O happy, who
in the days of this flight and confusion in his house alone, does not live woman whom and
children cling to the side is anxious! I feel happy now, I want 'to not much hot today father
and not for women and children are concerned. Frequent thought ' I also have the flight and
had paired the best things the old money and the chains of my late
mother, all else is kept sacred. These disappointments
weighed heavily upon her and reduced her to a state as serious as that from which she had recently
recovered. Madame de Noirmoutier was a woman who took as much care to publicise her affairs
as others do to conceal them. Her relations with the Duc de Guise were so open that, even though
far away and ill, the Princess heard so much about it that she was left in no doubt. This was
the final straw. She had lost the regard of her husband, the heart of her lover, and the most
loyal of her friends. She took to her bed, and died not long after in the flower of her youth.
She was one of the loveliest of women and could have been one of the happiest if she had not
strayed so far from the path of prudence and virtue.

