THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF JIMMIE DALE

                                   BY

                             FRANK L. PACKARD

                                  1919

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

      I SMARLINGHUE

     II THE WARNING

    III THE MAN WITH THE SCAR

     IV THE DIAMOND PENDANT

      V "DEATH TO THE GRAY SEAL!"

     VI THE REHABILITATION OF LARRY THE BAT

    VII THE BOND ROBBERY

   VIII AT HALFPAST ONE

     IX 'WARE THE WOLF!

      X THE CHASE

     XI THE VOICES OF THE UNDERWORLD

    XII IN THE SANCTUARY

   XIII THE SECRET ROOM

    XIV THE LAST CARD

     XV CAUGHT IN THE ACT

    XVI ONE CHANCE IN TEN

   XVII THE DEFAULTER

  XVIII ALIAS ENGLISH DICK

    XIX THE BEGINNING OF THE END

     XX THE OLD-CLOTHES SHOP

    XXI SILVER MAG

   XXII THE TOCSIN'S STORY

  XXIII HUNCHBACK JOE

   XXIV AT FIVE MINUTES OF TWELVE

THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF JIMMIE DALE

CHAPTER I

SMARLINGHUE

A diminutive gas-jet's sickly, yellow flame illuminated the room with poverty-stricken inadequacy;
high up on the wall, bordering the ceiling, the moonlight, as though contemptuous of its artificial
competitor, streamed in through a small, square window, and laid a white, flickering path to
the door across a filthy and disreputable rag of carpet; also, through a rent in the roller
shade, which was drawn over a sort of antiquated French window that opened on a level with
the floor and in line with the top-light, the moonlight disclosed a narrow and squalid courtyard
without.

In one corner of the room stood a battered easel, while against the wall near it, and upon
the floor, were a number of canvases of different sizes. A cot bed, unmade, its covers dirty
and in disorder, occupied the wall space opposite the door. In the centre of the mean and uninviting
apartment stood a table, its top littered with odds and ends, amongst which the remains of
a meal, dishes and food, fraternised gregariously with a painter's palette, brushes and paint
tubes. A chair or two, long since disabled, and a rickety washstand completed the appointments.

The moonlight's path across the floor wavered suddenly, the door opened, was locked again,
and with a quick, catlike step a man moved along the side of the wall where the shadows lay
thickest near the door, dropped on his knees, and began to fumble hurriedly with the base-board
of the wall, pausing at every alternate second to listen intently.

A minute passed. A section of the base-board was lifted out, the man's hand was thrust inside--and
emerged again with a large roll of banknotes. He turned his head for a quick glance around
the room, his eyes, burning out of a gaunt, hollow-cheeked, pallid face, held on the torn window
shade--and then, in almost frantic haste, he thrust the banknotes back inside the wall, and
began to replace the base-board. But it was not the window shade, nor yet the courtyard without
with which he was concerned--it was the sound of a heavy footstep outside the door.

And now the door was tried. The man on the floor, working with desperate energy to replace
the base-board, coughed in an asthmatic, wheezing way, as there came the imperative smashing
of a fist upon the door panels, coupled with a gruff, curt demand for admittance. Again the
man coughed--to drown perhaps the slight rasping sound as the base-board slid back into place--and,
rising to his feet, shuffled hastily to the door and unlocked it.

The door was flung violently open from without, a heavy-built, clean-shaven, sharp-featured
man stepped into the room, slammed the door shut behind him, re-locked it, and swept a shrewd,
inquisitive, suspicious glance about the place.

"It took you a damned long time to open that door, Mister Smarlinghue!" he said sharply.

The man addressed touched his lips with the tip of his tongue nervously, shrank back, and made
no reply.

The lapel of the visitor's coat thrown carelessly back displayed a police shield on the vest
beneath; and now, completing a preliminary survey of the surroundings, the man's eyes narrowed
on Smarlinghue.

"I guess you know who I am, don't you? Heard of me perhaps, too--eh? Clancy of headquarters
is my name!" He laughed menacingly, unpleasantly.

Smarlinghue's clothes were threadbare and ill-fitting; his coat was a size too small for him,
and from the short sleeves protruded blatantly the frayed and soiled wristbands of his shirt.
He twined his hands together anxiously, and retreated further back into the room.

"I haven't done anything, honest to God, I haven't!" he whined.

"Ain't, eh?" The other laughed again. "No, of course not! Nobody ever did! But now I'm here--just
dropped in socially, you know--I'll have a look around."

He began to move about the room. Smarlinghue, still twining his hands in a helpless, frightened
way, still circling his lips nervously with the tip of his tongue, followed the other's movements
in miserable apprehension with his eyes.

Clancy, as he had introduced himself, shot up the roller shade, peered out into the courtyard,
yanked the shade down again with a callous jerk that almost tore it from its fastenings, and
strode over toward the easel, contemptuously kicking a chair that happened to be in his way
over onto the floor. Reaching the easel he picked up the canvas that rested upon it, stared
at it for a moment--and with a grunt of disdain flung it away from him to the ground.

There was a crash as it struck the floor, a ripping sound as the canvas split, and with a pitiful
cry Smarlinghue rushed forward and snatched it up.

"It--it was sold," he choked. "I--I was to get the money to-morrow. I have had bad luck for
a month--nothing sold but this--and now--and now--" He drew himself up suddenly, and, with
the ruined painting clutched to his breast, shook his other fist wildly. "You have no right
here!" he screamed in fury. "Do you hear! I have not done anything! I tell you, I have not
done anything! You have no right here! I will make you pay for this! I will! I will!" His voice
was rising in a shrill falsetto. "I will make you--"

"You hold your tongue," growled Clancy savagely, "or I'll give you something more than an old
chromo to make a row about! I don't want any mass meeting of your kind of citizens. Get that?"
He caught Smarlinghue roughly by the shoulder, and pushed him into a chair near the table.
"Sit down there, and close your jaw!"

Cowed, Smarlinghue's voice dropped to a mumble, and he let the torn canvas slip from his fingers
to the floor.

Clancy laughed gruffly, pulled another chair to the opposite side of the table, sat down himself,
and eyed Smarlinghue coldly for a moment.

"Sold it, eh?" he observed grimly. "How much were you going to get for it?"

A cunning gleam flashed in Smarlinghue's eyes--and vanished instantly. He wet his lips with
his tongue again.

"Ten dollars," he said hoarsely.

Clancy brushed aside the litter on the table, and nonchalantly laid down a ten-dollar bill.

With a sharp little cry that brought on a fit of coughing, Smarlinghue stretched out his hand
for the money eagerly.

Clancy drew the money back out of reach.

"Oh, no, nothing like that!" he drawled unpleasantly. "Don't make the mistake of taking me
for a fool. I'm not buying any ten-cent art treasures at ten dollars a throw!"

Smarlinghue's eyes remained greedily riveted on the ten-dollar note. He began to twine his
hands together once more.

"I don't know what you mean," he muttered tremulously.

"Don't you!" retorted the other shortly. "Well, I mean exactly what I say. I'm not buying any
pictures, I'm buying--you. I have been keeping an eye on you for the last three or four months.
You're just the guy I've been looking for. As far as I can make out, there ain't a dive or
a roost in the Bad Lands where you don't get the glad hand--eh?"

"I--I haven't done anything! Not a thing! I--I swear I haven't!" Smarlinghue burst out frantically.

"Aw, forget it!" Clancy permitted a thin smile to flicker contemptuously across his lips. "You've
got a whole lot of friends that I'm interested in. Get the idea? There ain't a crook in New
York that's shy of you. You got a 'stand-in' everywhere." He held up the ten-dollar bill. "There's
more of these--plenty of 'em."

Smarlinghue pushed back his chair now in a frightened sort of way.

"You--you mean you want me for--for a stool pigeon?" he faltered.

"You got it!" said Clancy bluntly.

Smarlinghue's eyes roved about the room in a furtive, terror-stricken glance, his hand passed
aimlessly over his eyes, and he crouched low down in his chair.

"No, no!" he whispered. "No, no--for God's sake, Mr. Clancy, don't ask me to do that! I can't--I
can't! I--I wouldn't be any good, I--I can't! I--I won't!" Nothing was the agonizing hunger artist as
such guardian, she made him miserable, she made the starving terribly difficult; sometimes he
overcame his weakness and sang during the waking hours, as long as he only endured, to show people
how wrong they suspected him. But it helped a little, they wondered then only on his skill, even
to eat during the singing. Much rather him were the guards, who sat down close to the grid,
with the dim night lighting the hall is not satisfied, but it exposed to the electric torches,
to them by the impresario's disposal. The bright light bothered him not to sleep He was not
at all and doze a little, he could always, in all lighting yes and at any hour, even in the overcrowded,
noisy room. He was very happy with such Guardians to spend the night entirely sleepless, and
he was ready to joke with them, to tell them stories of his wandering life, then listen to their
stories, all just to keep them awake, to always show them again, that he nothing to eat in the
cage and that he was hungry, as none of them could. But the happiest was He, then when the morning
came, and provide them on his behalf a lavish breakfast brought was, to which they threw themselves
with the appetite of healthy men after a painfully sleepless Night. There were even people who
breakfast in the undue influence of Guardian wanted to see, but it went too far, and if you asked
them about whether they only wanted to take over for the sake of no breakfast the night watch,
they moved, but their suspicions, they remained still.

This, however, already belonged to the lack of food at all divisive accusations. No one was even
able, all the days and nights at the hunger artist continuously as
guards to spend, so no one could know from personal experience that
truly continuous, only the hunger artist himself could know that,
but he also; had been starved error be the same from his hunger completely
satisfied spectators.

But he was back another reason never met, maybe he was not so much from hunger emaciated, that some
had to stay away from the performances to its regret, because it's Sight endured not, but he was
just so skinny from dissatisfaction with themselves He only knew that is, no other initiate knew
this, how easy it was starving. It was the easiest thing in the world. He concealed it well,
but you believe him not, it was at best modest, but mostly for advertisement or even addicted
to a swindler, the starvation, however, was easy because he knew how to make easy and had also
the face, admit it halfway. All he had to accept, had also accustomed over the years, but inwardly
they are gnawing dissatisfaction to him, and never after any period of starvation - this testimony
was necessary to issue him - He had voluntarily left the cage. As the maximum time for fasting
was the impresario forty days set, furthermore, it was never hungry, even in the non-world
cities, and for good reason. About forty days one could experience, by gradually enhancing advertising
interests of the city incite more and more, but then denied the Audience, a significant decrease in
response was noted, and there was of course In this respect, small differences between cities
and countries, as a rule, however, was to that forty days was the maximum time. So then on the
fortieth day, the door with flowers wreathed cage opened, an enthusiastic audience filled the
amphitheater, Military band played, two doctors entered the cage to the exact measurements of the
hunger artist carry through a megaphone, the results were announced the hall, and finally came two
young ladies, happy that they had just been drawn, and wanted the Hunger Artists from the cage
some stairs leading down, where on a little table an carefully selected patient meal was served.
And defended in this moment the Hunger artist ever. While he lay still volunteered his bony
arms outstretched in the helpful Hands of the ladies bending over him to get up but he would
not. Why now after forty days to end? He had a long, long held out indefinitely, why now stop where
he best, not even in the best was starving? Why did you deprive him of the glory continue to
go hungry, not just the largest hunger artist of all time to be that he was probably yes, but also
to excel themselves to the incomprehensible, to go hungry because of his ability, he felt no limits.
Why had This amount, which purported to admire him so much, so little patience with him if
he could stand it, continue to starve, why they did not want to endure? He too was tired, sat
well in the straw and should now raise up high and long and go to the food that he alone in the
idea of ​​nausea caused, that statement he laboriously only with respect to the ladies suppressed. And
he looked up into the eyes of seemingly friendly, in fact Women's so cruel, and shook the very
heavy on the weak neck, head. But then was what always happened. The manager was lifted, silent
- the music did the talking impossible - The arms of the hunger artist, as if inviting the sky,
his work here on the straw to look at again, this unfortunate martyr, who, however, the hunger
artist was only in a very different sense, took the hunger artists around the thin waist, passing
through wanted to make an excess of caution satisfaction with how frail he thing is here do
have, and gave him - not without him in secret to shake a little so that the Hunger artist with
his legs and upper body uncontrolled swaying back and forth - the meanwhile had become deathly
pale ladies. Well tolerated all the hunger artist, the head was on the chest, it was as if
he was executed rolls and think there inexplicable, and the body was hollowed out and the legs are
pressed firmly in self-preservation in the knees together, scraped the floor but, as if it was
not the real, the real they sought first, and the whole, however, very small weight of the
body was on one of the ladies who for help, with panting - as she had not presented this voluntary
- First the neck stretched out as possible, at least the face from contact with the hunger
artist preserve, but because it did not succeed and her more fortunate companion you do not to help
came, but is content with shaking the hand of the hunger artist, this small herzutragen bundle
of bones, the right, under the delighted laughter in the hall broke out in tears and had to
be replaced by a long-provided services. Then came the food, of the impresario of the hunger
artist during a similar half-unconscious sleep a little inspired, in a funny talk, the attention
of the state of hunger artist to distract, then a toast was drunk to the audience, which the
Impresario was allegedly whispered the hunger artist, the orchestra confirmed all through a
big fanfare, we broke up and no one had the right, with what is seen Unhappy to be, no one
except the hunger artist, only he.

* * * * *

He lived with regular small breaks for many years, in apparent gloss of the World honored for
all that, but mostly in gloomy mood, which was still troubled by the fact that no one knew how
to take it seriously. What you should comfort him, too? What he did want to left? And if once was
a good-natured, who regretted and wanted to tell him that his sadness would probably by starvation,
it could, especially in advanced Famine happened, that the hunger artist responded with an outburst
of rage and terror to shake all like an animal on the grid began. But was the impresario of
such conditions a means of punishment, which he used much. He apologized to the hunger artist
before the assembled Audience, admitted that only the rich people for not caused by starvation,
without could make further irritability understandable the behavior of the hunger artist's forgivable;
came in connection therewith also to the explanatory statement as
to the hunger artist to speak, he could still starve much longer,
he hungry, praised the high level of aspiration, the good will, the
great self-denial, which are certainly included in this claim; then
looked easy enough but the claim by showing photographs of the same
were sold to disprove, because the pictures could see the hunger artist
in one fortieth His fast, in bed, almost goes out from exhaustion.

                   This hunger artist indeed well known, accessible but again it was
unnerving perversion of the truth too much for him.

As a consequence the early termination of starvation, was one presented here appears to be
the cause! Against this Folly to fight against this world of ignorance was impossible. Yet he
always had again in good faith eagerly listened to the grid to the impresario, the appearance of the
photographs but he was always going on the grid, fell back into the straw with a sigh, and
calmed Public could come and visit it again approached.

If the witnesses of such scenes a few years later it returns thought they were often even incomprehensible.
For now those mentioned shift had occurred, almost suddenly had this happened, it might have
deeper reasons, but who was anxious to locate them at any rate found himself one day leave the
pampered hunger artist of the pleasure-seeking crowd, streamed to the rather different setting
positions. Once again, the impresario chased him through half of Europe, to see whether it is not
yet here and there to find again the old interest, all in vain, as in a secret agreement had
been almost everywhere an aversion designed to show the starving. Of course, had in fact not so
suddenly can come, and they now remembered later in some of their time noise the results are not
sufficiently respected, not suppressed enough precursors, but now something about it was too late. Although
it was certain that once again for the starving the time will come, but for the survivors was no
consolation. Now what should the hunger artist ? Do The, which had thousands cheered, could
not be located in booths on small fairs show, and to take to another job, the hunger artist was
not only too old, but mainly the result starving too fanatical. So he adopted as the impresario,
the Enjoyed a career without equal, and was quickly engaged by a large circus; to spare his own feelings,
he saw the terms not at all.

A large circus with its myriad of constantly balancing each other and additional Humans and animals
and equipment can use each and every time, even a hunger artist an appropriately modest claim,
of course, and besides, it was in this particular Case not only the hunger artist himself, who was
hired, but also his famous old Name, so you could not with the nature of those not decreasing with
increasing age art once said that a retired, no longer standing on the heights of its artists
wanted to escape to a quiet circus items, on the contrary, the hunger artist assured that, this
was quite believable, just as much hunger as before, yes, he even claimed he would, if given
leave his will, and that he was promised that easily, actually only now put the world into
a legitimate surprise, an assertion, however, that regardless to the time frame of which the
hunger artist in the heat easily forgotten by the experts only provoked a smile.

But basically lost the hunger artist is not the view of the actual conditions and took it for granted
that he was with his cage, not as a star attraction in the middle of the ring set, but out of an otherwise
fairly accessible place accommodated near the barns. Large, colorful painted inscriptions surrounded
the cage and announced what was on display. When the audience during the breaks to the idea
the stables urged to visit the animals, it was almost inevitable that it the hunger artist passed
by and made a little stop there, you might have stayed longer with
him, if not in the narrow passage of the oncoming what this stay on
the path to the longed stables did not understand a longer quiet contemplation
would have been impossible.

This was also the reason why the hunger artist in front of these visiting hours, which he described
as his Purpose in life, of course, longed for, yet again trembling. The first time he had the idea breaks
can not wait, he had delighted in the amount heranwälzenden , Entgegengesehn until it is too soon
- even the most stubborn, almost self-conscious deception did not think the experience was - convinced
that most of the intention to always again, without exception, all visitors were stable. And the
sight of the distance was still always the best. Because if they were approached to come to him,
he immediately cries umtobte and abuse of consecutive newly emerging parties of those who - it was
the Hunger artist soon the more embarrassing - would look at him comfortable, not out of understanding,
but of humor and defiance, and that second, the required first only to the stables. Was the great
body over, then the stragglers, and these were, however, where it is not everything was refused to
stand still as long as they only had like, hurried with long steps almost no page views, over,
time to come to the animals.

And it was not too more fortunate that a father came with his children, his finger at the hunger
artist was explained in detail what it was here, talked about earlier years when He had been in
similar, but incomparably grander performances, and then the Children, her account of their
inadequate preparation for school and life, although still without understanding remained - what
they were starving? - But in the brilliance of her searching eyes of some new, upcoming, my
times betrayed. Perhaps, then said the hunger artist then sometimes, everything would still be a little
better if his location is not quite so close would be at the stables. The people was by the
election made it too easy to not talk about him that the exhalations of the stables, the restlessness
of the animals at night, wearing the passing the raw meat for the carnivores, the cries at feeding
injured and permanently depressed. But with the Management, or her, he dared not; least owed he
had the animals, the amount of visitors, among which here and there for him Specific could find,
and who knew where they would hide him if he remember his existence wanted and so, too, that
he, strictly speaking, only an obstacle on the way to the stables was.

A small obstacle, however, an increasingly small obstacle. You get used to claim to the singularity,
in these times of attention for a hunger artist to do, and with this familiarity the verdict
was talking about him. He might starve so good as he could and he did it, but nothing could
save him more, you went past him. Trying to explain to someone the art of fasting! Who does not
feel it, the one can not understand it . Make The inscriptions were pretty dirty and illegible,
they tore down, no one remembered it to replace it; the tablet with the number of the length
of hunger days, the in the first period had been carefully re-day, had long remained always the
same, because after the first few weeks the staff even this small study was tired; and so hungry
while on the hunger artist, as he had previously dreamed of once, and succeeded without trouble just as
he had predicted back then, but no one counted the Days, no one, not even the hunger artist
himself, knew how great the performance was already and his heart was heavy. And once stood
at the time a man about town, is over the old figure was funny and spoke of vertigo, that was in this
sense, the could invent stupidest lie which indifference and innate maliciousness, not because
the hunger artist was cheating, he was working honestly, but the world was cheating him of
his wages.
 The only similarity between the two--the
one thing that must of necessity be the same in order to explain plausibly his intimacy with
the dens and lairs of Crimeland, the one thing that would, if nothing more, assure an unsuspicious,
tolerant acceptance of his presence there, was that, like Larry the Bat, he would assume the
role of a confirmed dope fiend; but as there were many dope fiends, thousands of them in the
Bad Lands, that point of similarity, even if Larry the Bat were not believed to be dead, held
little, if any, risk. For the rest, it was easy enough; and so there had come into being these
wretched quarters here, the New Sanctuary--and Smarlinghue.

But the mere assumption of a new role was not all--it was not there that the difficulty lay;
it was in gaining for Smarlinghue the confidence of the underworld that Larry the Bat had once
held. And that had taken time--was not even yet an accomplished fact. The intimate, personal
acquaintance of Larry the Bat with every crook and dive in Gangland had aided him, as Smarlinghue,
to gain an initial foothold, but his complete establishment there had necessarily had to be
of Smarlinghue's own making. And it had taken time. Six months had gone now, six months that,
as far as the Tocsin was concerned, had been barren of results mainly, he encouraged himself
to believe, because his efforts had been always limited and held in check; six months of anxious,
careful building, and now, just as he was regaining the old-time confidence that Larry the
Bat had enjoyed, just as he was reaching that point where the whispered secrets of the underworld
once more reached his ears and there was a promise of success if, indeed, she were still alive,
had come this thing to-night that spelt ruin to his hopes and ultimate disaster to himself.

If she were still alive! The thought came flashing back; and with a low, involuntary moan,
mingling anguish of mind with a bitter, merciless fury, he turned restlessly upon the cot.
If she were still alive! No sign, no word had come from her; he had found no clue, no trace
of her as yet through the channels of the underworld; his surveillance of the Magpie, whose
friendship he had begun to cultivate, had, so far, proved fruitless.

It came upon him now again, the fear, the dread, which he had known so often in the past few
months, that seemed to try to undermine his resolution to go forward, that whispered speciously
that it was useless--that she was dead. And misery came. And he lay there staring unseeingly
into the moonrays as they streamed in through the top-light.

Time passed. Then a smile played over Jimmie Dale's lips, half grim, half wistful; and the
strong, square jaw was suddenly out-flung. If she was alive, he would find her; if she was
dead--his clenched hand lifted above his head as though to register a vow--the man or men,
her murderer or murderers, whether to-morrow or in the years to come, would know a day of reckoning
when they should pay the debt!

But that was for the future. To-night there was this vital, imminent danger that he had to
face, this decision to make whose pros and cons seemed each to hold an equal measure of dismay.
What was he to do?

He laughed shortly, ironically after a moment. 

The owner of Björne now went into the dance hall to fetch his daughter, and there saw because
he, like Gösta and Marianne dancing.

Wild and stormy was the last polka. Some couples were pale, others glühendrot; the Dust was like
a cloud of smoke above the room, the candles flickered burned down deep in the candlesticks,
and amidst all this destruction, they flew uncomfortable - Gösta and Marianne, Royal inexhaustible
in their power, without blemish in its beauty, happy in the sense
of being able to indulge in this very beautiful movement.

When Marianne stopped dancing and asked her parents, they had gone
home.

She did not, however, noted their surprise, but quietly dressed and went out. The ladies toilet in
the room believed that she was traveling in his own carriage.

But she ran into her thin, silk shoes along the way without anyone complain their plight. In
the darkness, none of the guests she recognized how she went there on the edge of the road,
no one would have thought that this nocturnal wanderer, the hurrying
of the slide forced into the hills of snow, was the beautiful Marianne
was.

Once it undisturbed in could walk the middle of the road, they began to run. She ran as long
as she could, went then a distance and ran it again. An eerie anguish drove them forward.

From Ekeby to Björne is only a quarter of a mile.

Marianne was soon at home, but she believed almost, that she had lost. When she came into the
yard, all the doors were locked, all the lights extinguished, they initially believed that her
parents have not come home be.

She went to the front door and knocked on with some heavy blows. She took on the lock and shook
it that rang throughout the house. No one came and opened, but when they wanted to release the
iron door handle, which she had recorded with his bare hands, she tore they are frozen to the
metal skin of the hands.

The mighty lord Melchior Sinclaire was driven home to his only child the door locked. He was intoxicated
by drink, wild with anger. He hated his daughter; because she loved
Gosta Berling.

Now he locked the servants in the kitchen and his wife in the bedroom. With a loud oath he vowed
to kill those who dare would engage Marianne. And it was known that he would keep his word.

So
angered him no one had seen. A greater sorrow was it never even happened. Would not it his daughter
came to her eyes, he would have perhaps killed.

He had given her gold, and silk garments, he had given her a fine
education and can be given a scientific education.

She had been his pride, his Honor. He had seen her when she wore a crown. Oh! his queen, his
goddess, his beloved, beautiful, proud, Marianne! Had he ever saved, where it traded for them
had? Had he not felt too low to be her father do? Oh, Marianne, Marianne!

Had he not hate them when they fell in Gosta Berling was and kissed
him!

Did he not failed, it shut its doors if it offended his Highness, by providing a such a man loved
it! Let them stay on Ekeby, let them run to the neighbors to lodging to desire, let them sleep
in the snow, it does not matter, it's already in the mud , Razed the beautiful Marianne. The
shine of it has gone.

The splendor of his life is gone!

He lies in bed and hear them knocking on the door. What is that to him! He sleeps! Out there is the
girl who wants to marry her to a remote parish priest - for he has no home. If he had loved
them less, he would have been proud of it less, he could have let
them in.

Yes, his blessing, he can not deny them. He had lost. You, however, his door Open that he would
not. Oh, Marianne!

The beautiful young girl was still standing at the door of the house.

Soon she shook in impotent Anger at the castle, they soon fell to his knees, folded her hands and
prayed mangled forgiveness.

But no one heard it, no one answered, no one opened it.

Oh, this was not terrible! Horror seized me while I tell you this. It came from a ball, the Queen
had been. She was proud, wealthy, have been happy, and a Moment later she fell into such a bottomless
misery.

Excluded from their home, the cold exposed, not ridiculed, not beaten, not cursed, just with
cold, merciless hardness excluded.

I think of the cold, starry night that surrounded this big white night with the empty dreary fields
of snow, peaceful with the forests. Everyone was asleep, everything was painless slumber injected,
was only one living there at this point sleeping white.

All the grief, all fear, all the worries that are otherwise scattered
throughout the world slipped on this one Point approach.

Oh God! suffer so alone in the middle of sleeping, stiff, frozen world to have!

For the first time in her life came to meet her ruthlessness and harshness. Her mother wanted not
even get up from her bed to save them. Faithful old servant, make their first Steps had passed,
they heard and did not hand them.

For what is a crime because she was punished?

Where they could hope for mercy, if not on this door?

If she had murdered a man, she would still angepocht have the firm belief that in there that would
forgive her. When it comes to the most miserable would all degenerate beings sunk in rags and miserable,
they would still to this have door knocked and expect an affectionate reception. This door
was the entrance to their Home - behind this door could only await
their love.

Had her father not been tested sufficiently for now?

Would he not open it soon?

"Father, father," she said. "Leave me! I am cold, I shiver with cold. It's horrible out here!
"

"Mother, mother! That you did so many steps for my sake, you as many nights on my account 've
watched, why are you sleeping now?

Mother, mother, still awake one night, and I will never again cause
trouble.

"

She calls and then sinks in breathless silence to listen to an answer.

No one but heard it, no one obeyed her, no one answered.

Since she wrings her hands in wild fear, but her eyes have no tears.

The long dark house, with its closed doors and dark windows is scary motionless in the night.
What should now be only of her, as she was homeless? Branded she was dishonored as long as
the sky of the earth over her bulging. And her father himself this red-hot iron pressed her
on the shoulder!

"Father," she cried again, "what will become of me?

The people are the worst think of me. "

She wept and wailed, her body was numb with cold.

Oh, that such misery can befall a man who just stood still so high! Oh, it does not take much
to be plunged into the deepest misery! Should not we afraid be for
life?

Who is sitting in a safe vehicle?

Around us surges concern like a stormy sea, the waves licking greedily at the sides of the little
ship up behold, they rush on to overwhelm it.

Not a safe stop, no solid ground, no reliable vehicle, as far as the eye can see, only an unknown
sky above a sea of grief. - -

But hark! finally, finally! About the boards near easy steps.

"Is that you, Mother?" Asked Marianne.

"Yes, my child."

"Can I come inside now?"

"The father will not let you in."

"I'm in my thin shoes from Ekeby to run here through the snow. I stood here an hour and called.
I'm freezing out here dead. Why are you away from me down? "

"My child, my child, why you kissed Gosta Berling?"

"But tell the father but that I did not so dear. It was a game. Believe he, that I will get married
Gösta? "

"Go down to the farm-house, Marianne, and ask that they take you there for the night. The father is
drunk. He will not listen to reason. He took me up held. I slipped
out when I thought he was asleep.

He beats you to death if you into the house come from. "

"Mother, Mother, I should go to strangers when I have a home? because
my mother is also hard as my father?

As you can only admit that I am excluded? I lie Out here in the snow when you're not taking
in me! "

As Marianne's mother put her hand on the lock to open. At the same moment but heavy steps were
heard on the stairs, and a sharp voice called after her.

Marianne listened, her mother ran away from the sharp voice scolded her - and then - -

Marianne heard something terrible - she could hear every sound in the silent house.

She heard the sound of a blow, a stock shock or blow, then heard it a faint sound, and then again
once.

He beat her mother, the terrible, the giant Melchior Sinclaire beat his wife!

And in pale horror, threw Marianne down on the doorstep and squirmed in their Fear. Now she was
crying and their tears turned to ice native to the threshold.

Grace and mercy! Open, open, so they will come in and her back under
the blows can bend!

Alas, that he can beat her mother because she would not freeze her daughter in the snow will
leave because they wanted to comfort her child!

Marianne was deeply humiliated that night. She had dreamed that she was a queen, and now there was
not much better than a whipped slave.

But she got up in a cold rage. Once again she beat her bloody hand
on the door and cried: "Hear what I say to you, you, who beat my mother.

You shall cry, Melchior Sinclaire cry, you shall! "

Then went to the lovely Marianne, and laid down in the snow to rest. She threw the fur off and lay there
in her black velvet dress that stood out from the bright white snow.

She lay there and painted it from her father the next day at his
early morning walk and come out they would find there.

She had only one wish, that he himself can be found may.

O death, pale friend, is it as true as it is comforting that I can
never fail, to meet you.

Even me, the tardy by the workers of the earth, you come once, pull
the worn leather shoe from my foot, I tear the Breilöffel and the
flour barrel out of hand, take my work clothes from his body.

With a gentle hand you stretch me the pointed decorated warehouse and adorn me with long, embroidered
linen clothes.

My feet need shoes anymore, but my hands are white with snow gloves covered, the soil should
not work. Of you dedicated to the sweet rest, I sleep a thousand-year
sleep.

O Saviour! the laggard of the workers of the earth I am, and I dream with a shudder of pleasure from
the moment in which I want to include in your kingdom.

Bleicher friend to me like you can practice your power, but I tell you, it was harder the The fight
against women's bygone days!

The life forces were strong in their lean Bodies, no cold could cool their hot blood.

You had laid the beautiful Marianne to your bed, my death, and you sat by her side, like an old
nanny sits in the cradle to lull the baby to sleep.

You are faithful old nurse, you know what's good for the children of men, as it should not infuriate
you, if the playmates come with noise and noise and wake your slumbering half child. How could
you differently than angry, as the Cavaliers the beautiful Marianne lifted from the bed as a man
she fell to his chest and pressed her warm tears from his eyes on her face.

Ekeby on all the lights were extinguished, and all guests had bye. The pensioners stood up in the
manor wing just about the last half-empty punch bowl.

As Gosta struck the bowl and made a speech on you, you women vanished
times.

To speak of you, he said, was when we speak of heaven, vain If you were her beauty, vanity light.
Holy you were gentle, adorned statues in the temple of the house. The men subject at your feet,
you sacrificed incense and prayers. Through you do the love their Wonders to your forehead
Schlaenger the poetry its gleaming gold halo.

And the Cavaliers jumped up, confused by wine, confused by his words flowed, her blood Festivals
before pleasure. The old Eberhard and sluggish Cousin Christopher did not back from the joke.
In haste the pensioners horses in the carriage and rushed out into
the cold night to get to where even a tribute, which they never can
pay homage enough to each of them, whose red cheeks and bright eyes
of a few blasted hours Ekeby large rooms had to bring a serenade.

But the Cavaliers did not get far in this course, as the same, when they came to Bjorn they found
the beautiful Marianne at the door of her home lying in the snow.

They shuddered and enraged when they saw it lying there.

It was as if they had a adored Holy image shattered and found stripped in front of the church
door, it was as if an offender the bow of a Stradivarius violin shattered and torn apart the strings.

Gösta
threatened with a clenched fist in the direction of home after dark. "Here, children of ! Hatred,
"he cried," you hail, ye winds from the north, their destroyers of God's paradise "!

Beer Creutz lit his lantern horn and illuminated the pale dead face. As seen the pensioners Marianne
mangled hands and the tears that were frozen in their eyelashes,
and they cried like women, for it was not just a holy picture and
a stringed instrument, but a beautiful woman who had been her old
heart happy.

Gosta Berling threw himself beside her on the knee.

"Here she is now, my bride," he said. "A few hours they gave me the Brautkuß, and her father has promised
me his blessing. It lies and waits for me to come and their share white bed. to "

Gosta and the lifeless lifted up his strong arms.

"Home, with her to Ekeby" he said. "Now it is mine! In the snow I've found it, Now no one will take
me back. The raise in there, we do not want. What she has to do behind the doors, against
which she has beaten her hands bloody? "

And she wants to go ended. He put Marianne in the first carriage and sat next to them. Beer
Creutz stood on the back and took the reins.

"Take the snow and rub it, Gosta," he ordered.

The cold had paralyzed her limbs, that was all. The wild, untamed heart was still beating. She
had not even lost consciousness, she was very clear about how the
pensioners they had found, but they could not move.

She lay stiff and motionless in the Sleds, while Gosta Berling they rubbed with snow and alternately
wept and kissed her. She felt an inexpressible desire to be able to raise only one hand so far
to his caress to reply.

She remembered everything that had happened was as rigid and motionless,
thinking as clear as never before.

Gosta Berling loved them? Yes they did. Was it just a whim, the come by this evening was and would
disappear just as quickly? No, they had loved him for so long - for many years.

She compared herself with him and with other men in Wermland.

They were all directly as children. Each desires, they arrived, gave to them. They lived only
an external Life had never explored depths of her soul. But she was turned out the way to become
one usually when you move in a strange land among people, she could never indulge in all. If she
loved - yes, they might be ever so much effort - so was one half
of their As I speak, and watched with a cold, sardonic smile.

She had, after a Passion longed to come and they would sweep away in a wild unconsciousness
with. And now he, the mighty had come. When they kissed on the balcony Gosta Berling, as had they
even forget the first time.

And now she lost passion again, worked their hearts so that they will be knocking could hear.
Received because they still will not rule over her limbs? You felt a wild joy at the thought
of being expelled from their homes. Now wanted they are safely Göstas wife. How stupid she
had been but had how many years they do not fight your love. Oh, glorious, glorious is it to give
in love, the roar the blood to feel! But because they would never,
never shake off the Icy Shackles!

So far they had been inside ice, and fire from the outside, now was the opposite occurred
- In an ice body burned a fiery soul.

As Gosta felt like two arms around his neck, he felt a weak, feeble Pressure.

He could only feel very, Marianne, however, believed that it the concentrated within them have
passion in a fierce hug made air.

But Beer Creutz saw this, he let the horse run on the well-known ways, as wanted. He raised his
eyes and stared persistently and intently up at the Seven Sisters.

The old fellow

Friends, children of men! If the random add it so that you read this late at night, as I now write
down in the quiet night hours, as you shall not be easier sigh and
think that the good gentlemen pensioners enjoy an undisturbed sleep
were allowed after Marianne came home and in a good bed in the best
Strange room next to the great hall had to rest can bring.

Of course they went to bed and sleep it fell too, but they should
not be permitted be to sleep until noon calm.

For we must not forget that the old major's now with the beggar's bowl and crew swept through the
country and that it had never been her way of consideration for the convenience to take weary
sinners. Now she could do so much less than they had decided to to
drive that night, the Cavaliers from Ekeby.

The time when they sat in splendor and glory and joy to Ekeby scattered
about the world had, as God scatters stars across the sky, which was
gone. And while homeless traveled around the country, had the power
and the glory of the great estates the hands of the Cavaliers To leave
to be taken care of them, like the wind, the ash guards, as the sun
Lenz the snow guards.

Sometimes it happened that the pensioners in
a long sleigh bells with a merry exports. Then the major's wife met
them, which, like a beggar on the road einherwankte, so she opened
her eyes not down. The noisy crowd stretched out their clenched Fists
against. Through a quick turn of the carriage, they forced them into
the hills of snow in, and Major fox, bear hunter, failed not to spit
three times to such a meeting does not have bad consequences.

They
had no sympathy for her, they regarded it as an evil witch. If her
misfortune have happened, they would no longer be so grieved like
someone in the Walpurgis Night firing a gun loaded with brass buttons,
is about grieving, if he happens to be a old witch flying past hits.
It was for poor pensioners, as though her soul's salvation depends
on that they followed the major's wife. People have each other often
in the cruelest tortured, where it was her soul's salvation.

If the
Cavaliers late in the night of drinking tables at the window wavered
to see, if the night was calm and starry, they often saw a dark shadow
over the courtyard slide, then they knew that the major's wife had
come to look after her beloved home. In such moments, echoed the knight
wing of the jeers of the old sinner, and mocking remarks flew down
through the open window to her.

Truly - heartlessness and arrogance
had begun its entry into poor adventurers to hold. Sintram had sown
hatred in their hearts. When the major's wife remained quiet in Ekeby
would have their souls can not fall into greater danger. There are
more warriors the run than in the battle.

The major's wife harbored
no further anger against the Cavaliers. If she had her old power nor
had, they would have given them the tail like a naughty boy to be
behind them to be good again. But now she was worried about her beloved
possession, which the pensioners was revealed to be guarded by them,
like the wolf guarding the sheep.

Many a has to go through the same
grief. It is not the only one with it considered, like spreading the
expiration of a beloved home, the feel of what it means if we look
at the home of our childhood like a wounded deer. Some people feel
like a criminal when he sees how the trees by lichens overgrown, as
the gravel course overgrown by grass. He would throw himself on his
knees in these fields, the once seeds in the rich ornaments were displayed,
and ask him the disgrace not to be counted, the you have done to them.
He turns away from the poor horses, it lacks courage, their to face
view. He does not dare to stand on Zauntor when the herd returns home
from the pasture. No spot on the world gives so much bitter emotions
as a decaying home.

Oh, I beg all of you fields and meadows, flower
gardens and pleasure-giving you, Care be taken to ensure they maintain
good. Nurturing it with love, with work! It is not well, when nature
has to grieve for the people.

When I think of what had to suffer
the proud Ekeby under the rule of the Cavaliers, as I wish that the
major's wife had reached their goal, that the pensioners would be
deprived Ekeby.

It was not her intention to get himself back to power.
She had only one goal, their to rid home of this tunnel, and of these
locusts, these robbers, under the steps no grass grows.

While they
are begging roamed the country, living on charity, they had constantly
to her mother, think, and in her heart took root, the idea that better
times never for they would come before her mother not taken the yoke
of the curse from her shoulders had. No one had previously reported
the death of her old, therefore they had to go up there live in the
woods. Despite her nineties she lived in unremitting work, provided
in winter for their milk and bowls in the summer for their charcoal
kilns, to the tedious task longingly awaiting the day when her life's
work would be met.

And the major's wife thought that if the old man
live so long, so this was certainly the intent that they the curse
was to take back from her. The mother, who brought such misery to
their child had and could die impossible.

So then the major's wife
decided to go to the elderly so that they could both find peace. You
wanted to walk through the dark woods, along the long river, until
they leave the home of her Childhood had been reached. Rather, they
could find no rest. Even offered her a lot these days a beloved shelter
and the gifts of a true friendship, but she had no permanent Site.
Perch and angry, she went from farm to farm, for the curse they oppressed.

She
wanted to go to her mother, but for now wanted to take care of their
beloved Ekeby. They are not wanted in the hands of reckless scoundrels,
revelers incompetent, indifferent Spendthrift of the gifts of God can. That's all, isn't it? I told Slimmy
I was through--but Slimmy held something over me that was good for twenty years. What could
I do? I said I'd come in on this, figurin' that I could queer the game by stallin'. I--I tried
it. If you were here, you saw me. I pretended that I couldn't open the safe, and--"

"Can you?" inquired Jimmie Dale gently.

"That thing!" Birdie Lee smiled mirthlessly. "Why it's only a double combin--"

"Open it, then," prompted Jimmie Dale.

Birdie Lee stooped impulsively to the dial of the safe; hesitated, then straightened up again,
and shook his head.

"No," he said. "I guess I'll take my medicine. I don't know who you are. I might just as well
have opened it for Slimmy as for you. It looks as though you were after the same thing he was."

Jimmie Dale smiled.

"Stand a little away from the safe, Birdie--there," he instructed. And, as the other obeyed
wonderingly, Jimmie Dale knelt to the dial. "You see, I trust you not to move," he said. The
dial was whirling under the sensitive fingers, and, like Birdie before him, his ear was pressed
against the face of the safe.

The moments went by. Birdie Lee was watching in an eager, fascinated, startled way. Came at
last a sharp, metallic click, as Jimmie Dale flung the handle over--and the door swung wide.
He shut it again instantly--and locked it.

"It's your turn, Birdie," he said calmly. "You see that, as far as I or my intentions are concerned,
it doesn't matter whether you open it or not."

"Who are you?" There was awed admiration in Birdie's voice. "You're slicker than ever I was,
even in the old days. For God's sake, who are you?"

"Never mind," said Jimmie Dale. "Open the safe, if you can."

"I can open it all right," said Birdie, moving slowly forward; "and quicker than you did, because
I got the combination when I was workin' on it with Slimmy watchin'. Throw the light on the
knob, will you?"

It was barely an instant before Birdie Lee swung back the door.

"Now lock it again," directed Jimmie Dale. And then, as the other obeyed, he held out his hand
to Birdie Lee. "You're clear, Birdie."

A tremor came to the other's face.

"Clear?" repeated Birdie unsteadily.

"Yes--you get your chance. That's one reason why I came here to-night--to spoil Slimmy Jack's
play, to see that you got your chance if you really wanted it, as"--he added whimsically--"I
was informed you did. Go ahead, Birdie--make your get-away--you're free."

But Birdie Lee shook his head.

"No," he said, and his voice caught again. "It's no good." He pointed to the still form on
the floor. "I guess I go up for more than safe-crackin' this time. I--I guess it'll be the
chair. When they find him here--dead--shot--they'll call it murder--and they'll put it onto
me. The police know we have been together for years. They know he came here to-day when I got
out. We've been seen together to-day. We--we were seen quarrelling this afternoon in a saloon
over on the Bowery. That was when I was refusin' to start the old play again. They'd have what
looked like an open and shut game against me. I wouldn't have a hope."

It was a moment before Jimmie Dale answered. What the man said was true--he would not have
a hope--for an honest life--after five years in the penitentiary. He lifted his flashlight
again and played it over Birdie Lee. They showed, those years, in the pallor, the drawn lines,
the wan misery in the other's face.

And then Jimmie Dale's lips set firmly under his mask. There was a way to save the man. It
was something he had never intended to do again--but it was worth the price--to save this man.
It would be like a bombshell exploded in the underworld; it would arouse the police to infuriated
activity; it would stir New York to its depths--but, after all, it could not touch Smarlinghue.
It would only instill the belief that somehow Larry the Bat had escaped from the tenement fire;
it would only mean a hunt for Larry the Bat day and night--but Larry the Bat no longer existed--and
it would save this man.

He clamped the flashlight between his knees, leaving his hands free, and from the leather girdle
drew the old-time metal case, thin, like a cigarette case, and from the case, with a pair of
little tweezers that precluded the possibility of telltale finger prints, lifted out a small,
diamond-shaped, gray-coloured paper seal, adhesive on one side, which he moistened now with
his tongue--and, stooping quickly, attached it to the dead man's sleeve.

There was a sharp, startled cry from Birdie Lee.

"The Gray Seal! You're--you're Larry the Bat! They passed the word around in Sing Sing that
you were dead, and--"

"And it will be the Gray Seal who is wanted for this--not you," said Jimmie Dale quietly. Then,
almost sharply: "Now make your get-away, Birdie. Hurry! You and I part here. And the greater
distance you put between yourself and this place to-night the better."

But the man seemed as though robbed of the power of movement--and then his lips quivered, and
his eyes filled.

"But you," he faltered, "you--you're doing this for me, and I--I--"

Jimmie Dale caught the other's arm in a kindly grip.

"Good-night, Birdie," he said significantly. "I'm the last man now that you could afford to
be seen with. You understand that. And I guess you can understand that I've reasons for not
wanting to be seen myself. You've got your chance; give me mine to get away--alone." He pushed
the man abruptly toward the door.

Still Birdie Lee hesitated; then catching Jimmie Dale's hand, he wrung it hard--and, with a
half choked sob, turned and made his way from the room.

For an instant Jimmie Dale stood looking after the other through the darkness, listening as
the stealthy steps descended the stairs--then suddenly he knelt again beside the dead man on
the floor.

"You were clever, Slimmy!" he murmured. "Smarlinghue wouldn't have had a chance of getting
out from under this break--if your plans had worked out! And I didn't know you, of course,
because you were a Chicago crook."

He took off the dead man's mask, and played his flashlight for a moment over the cold, set
features.

A queer smile twisted Jimmie Dale's lips.

It was "Clancy of Headquarters"!

CHAPTER IV

THE DIAMOND PENDANT

The "murder" of Slimmy Jack had evidently been discovered too late for the make-up of the early
morning papers; but from the noon editions onward it had been flung across the front pages
in glaring type--even the most stately journals, for the nonce aroused out of their dignified
calm, indulging in "display" headlines that, quite apart from the mere text, could not but
have startled their equally stately and dignified readers. The Gray Seal, the leech that fed
upon society, the murderer, the thief, the menace to the lives and property of law-abiding
citizens, the scourge that for years New York had combated in the no more effective fashion
than that of gnashing its teeth in impotent fury, had suddenly reappeared with a fresh murder
to his credit. And New York had thought him dead!

Jimmie Dale, leaning back on the seat of his limousine as the car, now halting at a corner,
now racing with a hundred others to snatch a block or two of distance before the next monarchial
traffic officer of Fifth Avenue should hold it up again a victim to the evening rush, turned
from first one to another of the pile of papers beside him. His strong, clean-shaven face was
grave; and there was a sober light in the dark, steady eyes. In the St. James Club, which he
had just left, perhaps the most sedate, certainly the most exclusive club in New York, it had
been the one topic of conversation. Elderly gentlemen, not usually given to excitability, had
joined with the younger members in a hectic denunciation of the police as criminally inefficient,
and had made dire and absurdly vain threats as to what they, electing themselves for the moment
a supreme court of last resort, proposed to do under the circumstances. The irony was exquisite,
if they had but known! Also there was the element of humour, only there was a grim tinge to
the humour that robbed it of its mirth--some day they might know!

He glanced out of the window, as the car was held up again. Everybody in the crowd, that waited
on the corners for the stream of traffic to pass, seemed to have their eyes glued to their
newspapers--even Benson, his chauffeur, during the moment of inaction, was surreptitiously
reading a paper which he had flattened out on the seat beside him!

Jimmie Dale's eyes reverted to the newspaper in his hand, one of the most conservative. There
was no mistaking the tenor of the leading article on the editorial page:

"It is not so much that a thug and criminal known as Slimmy Jack should have been murdered
by another wretch of his own breed; indeed, that such should prey upon one another is far from
being a matter of regret, for we might hope in time for the extermination of them all by the
simple process of mutual attrition and at correspondingly little expense to ourselves--but
that this so-called Gray Seal should still prove to be alive and at large is a matter that
concerns every citizen personally. He does not confine his attentions to the Slimmy Jacks.
The criminal records of the past few years reek with his acts, that run the gamut of every
crime in the decalogue, crimes for the most part actuated apparently by no other motive than
a monstrously innate thirst for notoriety--and the victims, for the most part, too, have been
the innocent and the defenceless. What is the end of this to be? If the police cannot cope
with this blood-mad ruffian, is New York to sit idly by and submit to another reign of terror
instituted and carried on under the nose of authority by this inhuman jackal? If so, we are
committing a crime against ourselves, we are insulting our intelligence, and--"

The man who had written that was a personal friend! Jimmie Dale threw the paper down, and picked
up another, and after that another. They were pretty well all alike. They rehearsed the discovery
of Larry the Bat as the Gray Seal; they rehearsed the story of the fire in the tenement of
six months ago in which it was supposed that Larry the Bat had perished--they differed only
in the virulence, a mere choice of words, with which they now demanded that this Larry the
Bat, alias the Gray Seal, should be dug out like a rat from his hole, and the city be freed
once and for all, and with no loophole for misadventure this time, of this "ogre of hell,"
as one paper put it, that was gorging itself upon New York.

The furrows gathered on Jimmie Dale's forehead, as he folded up the papers, and stared at his
chauffeur's back through the plate-glass front of the car. He had known that the reappearance
of the Gray Seal would arouse the community to a wild pitch of excitement, but he had far underestimated
the effect. He could gauge it better now, though--he had only to look out of the windows at
the passers-by. And this was only the respectable element of the city whose head and front
was the police, and dangerous enough for all the bitter taunts, gibes and recriminations with
which the police was maligned! There was still the far more dangerous element of the underworld!
He had not been in that quarter since he had left Malay John's the night before, but he could
picture it now well enough. God help him if he ever fell into those hands! In dens and dives,
in the dark corners of that sordid world, they would be whispering blasphemous vows of vengeance
against him one to another--and, relative to the hate and fear that welded them into a single
unit, the police sank into insignificance. More than one of their elite had gone to the electric
chair through the instrumentality of the Gray Seal; more than one was serving at that moment
a long term behind penitentiary walls. Whose turn was it to be next? They needed no editorial
prod in the underworld to run Larry the Bat to earth--there was the deeper spur of self-preservation!
They knew who the Gray Seal was now, and the first blow that he had aimed upon his reappearance
had apparently been at one of themselves. Their search for Larry the Bat would not be an indifferent
one!

It was true that Larry the Bat no longer existed, that in that respect he was encompassed by
a certain security he had not enjoyed before, but how long would that last? One slip, one moment
off his guard, would wreck all that in the twinkling of an eye. Between the police and the
underworld New York would be scoured from end to end for Larry the Bat; and, failing to find
trace or sign of their quarry, how long would it be before they would put more faith in the
evidence of the tenement fire than in the evidence of the Magpie, upon whose testimony alone
Larry the Bat had been accepted as the Gray Seal, and believe again that Larry the Bat was
dead, and that therefore they had not yet solved the identity of the Gray Seal! And by the way I used the time to clean up the upper shelves. The did not big!
I do not understand how it so I was able to accumulate. "

"Aunt has so much" to do, Gösta said apologetically.

"Yes, you can believe.

If I myself am not always included, so neither is the Spindle nor the distaff properly started.
And if ... "

Here she suddenly paused and wiped a tear from her eye.

"Oh, dear God sighed," she, "here I stand and talk and probably never
again get something what do I care.

He sold everything, what we have and have.

"

"Yes, this is a great pity," said Gosta.

"You know, the big mirror down the hall. That was a gem, as the entire glass was in one piece,
and the gilding was not a stain. I got it from my Mother got, and now he wants to sell him.
"

"He's crazy!"

"Yes, you can probably tell you. He is crazy. He truly listens to not rest until we are thrown onto
the highway and would have to beg, as the major's wife.

"

"So far it is probably" not be said Gosta.

"Yes, Gosta! As the major's wife went from Ekeby, they predicted us
misfortune, and now comes it.

She would have never admitted that he sold Björne. And you know just before his own china,
the old cups from his own family, which he sold. This would the major's wife never found.
"

"But he has only once," asked Gosta.

"Oh, there is nothing more than that Marianne has not returned home. He has to waited and waited.
The whole day he went into the alley and down and has waiting for them. He longs so much for
her I think he has lost his mind about it; but I can not say anything. "

"Marianne believes that he is angry with her."

"This can not believe it. You know him, but she is proud and will
not take the first step .

Do They are stubborn and hard - both of them, and about me does it come about, I'm sitting between
two hard stones. "

"Aunt know that Marianne wants to marry me?"

"Oh, Gosta, it does not. She says this only to tease you. It is far too much spoils in order to
marry a poor man, and far too proud. You go Home and tell her when she comes soon, so her
entire inheritance goes to the dogs.

He leaves the whole thing off without getting the least for it. "

Gösta was angry with her. There she sat on a large kitchen table and had no meaning for than for
its mirrors and porcelain.

Aunt should be ashamed, "he exclaimed.

"Push out your first your daughter out into the snow, and then you think, that it not only out
of sheer wickedness comes back.

And you dare her that she left the man they loved, to be made not only to heirless! "

Dear Gosta! Will you still do not even angry.

I know not what I say. I tried to open the door Marianne, but he dragged me away. Here at home
it is always I do not understand. I do not begrudge you the heart of Marianne, if you can
make them happy. It is not an easy thing to make a woman happy, Gosta.

"

Gösta looked at her.

How bad could he speak with a person like Mrs. Gustav!

Cowed and she was worn out, but she had such a good heart.

Aunt does not ask how it is Marianne, "he said softly.

Then she burst into tears. "Will you not be angry if I ask you," she
said.

"I have me all the time been yearning to ask you. I know nothing more of it than that she lives.
Not a greeting I got all the time from her, not even I sent her her things, and I thought
you and her, you wanted nothing of me you can hear. "

Gösta could not stand it any longer.

He was a wild, great person - sometimes had to the Lord send his
wolves after him, to force him to obedience - but the tears this old
woman for him were worse than the howling of the wolves.

He told her the whole Truth.

"Marianne has been sick the whole time," he said. She has had the smallpox. Today she was to be laid
for the first time on the sofa.

I have since that first Night not seen. "

With a jump woman Gustav was on its feet.

She let stand Gösta and ran without a word to say, in to her husband.

The people in the auction room, they saw excited to run at him and whisper something in his ear.
They saw that his face was redder still, and that the hand that rested
on the tap, this turned around so that the spirits flowed onto the
floor.

It all looked - Mrs. Gustav had come with such important news that
the auction has ended Stagnation suffered.

The hammer of the auctioneer did not fall, the springs of the scribes scratched not on paper,
no bid was audible.

Melchior Sinclaire went out of his musings.

"Well," he said, "is soon?"

And the auction was back in full swing.

Gösta sat and waited in the kitchen, and Mrs. Gustav came crying out to him.

"It helped not matter," she said.

"I thought he would stop if he learned that Marianne been sick, but now he lets it continue.
He would stop even if he does not ashamed. "

Gösta shrugged and said goodbye to her. In the hall he met Sintram.

"A devilishly entertaining story," cried Sintram and rubbed his hands. "You are a master, Gosta!
What do you think of everything can bring about! "

"It will soon have a lot more fun," whispered Gosta.

"The Vicar of Broby is here with a whole carriage full of money, they said, he wants to buy all
Björne and kontant pay.

Since I will just see what touches a face of the great lord. "

Sintram pulled his head between his shoulders and laughed quite a
long, heartfelt laughter.

Then he went into the auction room and came close to Melchior Sinclaire.

"Will you have a drink, Sintram, so you must, get me the devil! first offer. "

"You've though always lucky brother," said Sintram. "Here comes a whole with a Sleigh full of
money down. He wants to buy Björne with inventory, crew and all. He has with others, the appointment
made, that they should offer for him. He himself wants to as long
as did not show.

"

"You can surely tell me who it is, if I give you a drink for the trouble?"

Sintram took the drink and came back a few steps before answering.

"It is to be the pastor of Broby, brother Melchior!"

Melchior Sinclaire had better friends than the parish priest of Broby. It had years of hostilities
existed between them. The story went that the great landowner in the dead of night Because
of that had to cover the pastor located in wait and beating him some administered had, this
peasant slave driver, the skinflint!

Probably be Sintram had withdrawn a few steps, but he is not quite escaped the wrath the great
man. He got in front of a shot glass to his forehead and the whole Branntweinfäßchen the feet
of sail. Then followed a scene which delighted his heart for a long
time.

"Will the minister of Broby have my estate? Roared Sinclair. "Do you stand and strike the Broby
clergyman to my property?

As the dogs you should be ashamed of you "- He took a Candlesticks and an inkwell and threw
both into the crowd. All the bitterness of his poor heart was finally air. Roaring like a wild
animal, he clenched his fist at the bystanders and threw everything he had in his hand, as missiles
against them. Liquor bottles and glasses rattled through the room.

He did not know what he was doing. "The auction is over," he yelled.

"Out with you! As long as I live, is the pastor Broby now, nor Mr. Björne to be. Out with you!
I will teach you, for to offer the parish priest of Broby. "

He went up to the auction holder and the writer. They jumped to the side. In the confusion
they tore around the table, and the landlord drove like a madman at the large crowd of peaceful
People.

It was flight, and wild confusion.

A few hundred people crammed in to the door Fear of one man. And he stood still, his "Begone!"
Roaring. He sent loud curses after them by a chair swung like a club over his head.

He followed her up out into the hallway, but no further. When the last residents of the stairs
down, he went back into the room and shut the door behind him.

Then he pulled a mattress and a few cushions in the crowd out, laid
down on it and fell asleep in the middle of Destruction of an order
until the next day to wake up again. - -

As Gosta came home, he learned
that Marianne wants to speak with him.

This was a favorable, he had just thought about how he could get
to the language.

When he entered the dark room where she lay, he paused for a moment at the door. He could not see where
she was.

"Stay where you are, Gosta," said Marianne.

"It can be dangerous to come near me."

       But Gosta the stairs in a couple of jumps was hinangeeilt, trembling
with eagerness and desire.

What he took care of the infection. He wanted to enjoy the bliss to see them.

For she was beautiful, the beloved of his heart.

No one had such soft hair, such a clear, radiant brow. Her whole
face was a game gracefully curved lines.

He thought of the eyebrows which stood out as sharp as a Honiggrübchen Lily, the bold curved
line of the nose, the lips that curled fine as a rolling wave, to the oval of the cheeks and
showing fine form of the chin. He thought to the delicate color of their skin, the pitch-black
eyebrows at the blonde hair, on the blue eyeballs in the clear white,
the gleam in the corner of his eye.

Beautiful she was his mistress! He thought about what a warm heart, she proudly under the Express
hid. She had the strength to surrender to sacrifice himself, but
she hid carefully under the elegant essence, under the proud words.

It was bliss to see them.

In two bounds he had come up the stairs, and then she thought that he at the door would stop!
He stormed across the room and fell on his knees beside her bed.

He wanted to see her, kiss goodbye to her.

He loved her, he would never stop to love her, but his heart was
accustomed to be trampled in the dust.

O where to find them, this rose without support, without a root, take it to him and He was allowed
to call? Not even she, who rejected it and found half dead by the roadside had, he was allowed
to keep.

When his love would probably sing their song, so high and pure that
no discord rang through?

When his luck would be built on a base, according to which no other
heart with restlessness and longing desire?

He thought about how he should take leave of her.

"It's great misery prevails at home with you," he would say. "My heart bleeds when I it think.
You have to go home and reflect your father's mind. Your mother floats in perpetual danger. You
have to go home, sweetheart! "

You see, these words of resignation he had on his lips, but they were not pronounced.

He fell to his knees at her bedside, took her head between her hands
and kissed her.

Then but he had no words. His heart began to beat so violently as
it did his heart .

Burst

The smallpox had destroyed the beautiful face, the skin had become rough and pitted. Never again
should the red blood shining through the cheeks or in the fine blue veins of the Forehead
become visible. The eyes were dull under the swollen lids.

The eyebrows were disappeared, and the white enamel in the eyes had a yellowish tinge.

Everything was destroyed.

The bold lines had become rough and clumsy.

There were not a few who later lamented Marianne Sinclair vanished
beauty.

But the first man who saw her after she lost her beauty was not the the pain out. Inexpressible
emotions filled his soul. The longer he looked at it, the warmer It was in him. The love swelled
and swelled like a river in the spring. DC fire waves they flowed from his heart, filled his
whole being, she came to him as tears in the Eyes, sighed on his
lips, trembling in his hands all over his body.

Oh, to love, to defend them, hold them harmless, harmless! Her slave to be her guardian angel!

Strong
is the love, when it received the baptism of fire of pain.

He could not use Marianne talk of separation and renunciation. He could not leave them. He owed
her his life.

He could have committed mortal sins for their sake.

He spoke not a word of sense, and he just cried and kissed her, until the old nurse said, that
it is best for him at the time had to go.

After he left, there was Marianne and thought of him and in his excitement.

"It is good, to be loved," she thought.

Yes, it's good to be loved, was, but how was it with her own? What do they feel? Oh, nothing!
Less than nothing!

Was she dead, her love, or where they had fled? Where it was hidden, the child of her heart? Lived
there, had crept into the inmost recesses of her heart and sat there and froze under the Eisblicken,
intimidated by the jeers and half suffocated by the bony fingers?

"Oh, my dear," she sighed, "my darling! Do you live or are you dead, dead as my Beauty? "

* * * * *

Early the next morning came the great lord come to his wife.

"See that you restore order in the house sheep firm, Gustav," he said. "I'm going over, to
get Marianne. "

"Yes, dear Melchior, it should all" be put back in order, they said.

This was all right between them. An hour later there was the great landowner to the way to Ekeby.

You
could not look more handsome and affable than Mr. Melchior Sinclaire,
as he sat there in the back Kaleschenschlitten beaten, in his best
clothing and the best of his scarf.

Now his hair was combed smoothly over your head, but the face was pale and his eyes were deep
in their sockets.

And indescribable was the radiance that from the cloudless sky on
the day of February flowed down.

The snow sparkled like the eyes of young girls when up plays for the first dance is. The birch
trees stretching her lace of fine red-brown branches to the sky, and some even sat for a fringe
of small, sparkling icicles.

It was hard gloss on the day. The dancing
horses threw the front legs in the air, and the driver had to pop
out of sheer pleasure with a whip.

After a short ride, the carriage
stopped in front of the large landowners of the stairs to Ekeby. The
Servant came out.

"Where's your power?" Asked Melchior Sinclaire.

"You
have to hunt for the big bears in the Gurlita Mountains."

"All together?"

"All
together, Lord. Those who do not go along to the bear's sake, who
is due to the Fouragesacks. "

The squire was laughing, so that it
echoed over the quiet courtyard. He gave the servant a dollar for
the answer.

"Tell my daughter that I'm here to pick her up. It should
not be afraid that they will freeze. I have a Kaleschenschlitten,
and a wolf's clothing I have also brought with they wrap around. "

"Do
not enter the lord?"

"No, I'm sitting well where I sit."

The servant
disappeared, and the landlord got ready to wait. He was in on that
day more radiant mood, that he was able to disrupt anything. He had
imagined that he would have to wait to Marianne, perhaps they had
not even risen. He could, however, pass the time by looking a bit
around.

There on the ridge of the roof hung a long icicles, which
had the sun tried hard. She began by above it, it melted and was now
going on a drop that he run along the icicle and should fall. Before
but had completed the drop half way, he was already solidifies again.
The sun was constantly new attempts, but never had luck with that.
But at last there was an intrinsically more powerful beam that is
stuck on the tip of the icicle, a very tiny, which flashed in front
of beans, and before you knew it, he had his Target achieved: a drop
fell to the ground clapping.

The landlord saw that and laughed. "You
were not stupid, you," he said to the sun.

The yard was quiet and
empty. From the big house no sound penetrated to him out. But he was
not impatient. He knew that the ladies use a lot of time until they
are ready.

He sat there and watched the pigeons. He was barred. The
pigeons were enclosed, lasted until the winter, so they should not
steal the hawk. came from time to time a dove, and stuck her head
through the white gauze.

"The wait for spring," said Melchior Sinclaire;!
"But she must have patience."

The dove came so frequently that he
drew out his Clock and achtgab. Precisely every third minute they
put their heads out.

"No, my dear," he said, "do you think that spring
will be ready in three minutes? You have to wait to learn it! "

And
he himself had to wait, but he had plenty of time.

The horse pawed
impatiently at first in the snow, but they were tired of standing
and of the sun, which seemed to them in the eye. They put their heads
together and slept. The driver sat stiffly on the box, whip and reins
in hand, the face of the sun face, and slept, and he was snoring.

But
the landlord did not sleep. He was never placed to sleep less than
now. Rarely he had felt better than in this joyful waiting time. Marianne
had been sick. You could not have come sooner, but now she was safe.
Yes of course it came from. And all should again be good.

Now she
knew she must be able to see that he was angry with her any more.
He was himself came, with the carriage and two horses!

On the board
which was installed in front of the entrance of the hive itself had
a tit a truly satanic list devised. She wanted to have their lunch,
so she tapped with their small, sharp beak against the board. Inside
the hive but hung Bees in a large black lump, everything is in the
highest order, the conductor share of the rations, the butler runs
with nectar and ambrosia from mouth to mouth. Those which depend entirely
towards the inside, in a perpetual exchange places with the crowd
hanging outside comrades, so that heat and convenience are equally
distributed.

As they hear the pounding of the tit, and the whole
hive is a buzz of curiosity. Is it friend or foe? Danger for the state?
The Queen has a guilty conscience; they can not wait alone. Is it
the spirit of the murdered drones who haunts out there? "Go out and
to see who's there," she commands the doorkeeper. This goes. With
a: "It is the Queen live," she rushes out, and smack! is the bird
on her. With vorgestrecktem Neck and wings that tremble with excitement
begins to them, crushed them, eat them - and no one customer brings
the ruler of her death. But the tit knocks again, and the Queen continues
to send out their door guardians, and they all disappear. Not one
returns with the message back, it was who, because of the beat. Hu!
It is incredibly dark in the hive. It is the avenging spirits, which
drive her out there playing. Who would have only no ears! Who only
could suppress his curiosity! Who can wait quietly!

The great lord
laughed so that he had tears in his eyes, the stupid woman in the
bee hive and on the sly gentleman out there on the board.

There is
no art to wait if its one thing for sure and if you have so many,
which one can distract his thoughts.

The sun began to lean towards
the mountains in the west. Melchior Sinclaire looked at his Clock.
It was three, and the mother had lunch do ready to twelve clock.

At
the same moment the servant came and announced that Miss Marianne
to talk to him wish. The landlord added the wolf skin over his arm
and stepped into the bright mood Stairs ascend.

When Marianne heard
his heavy footsteps on the stairs, she did not yet know whether they
he wanted to return home or not. She only knew that this long waiting
period must have an end.

She had hoped that the pensioners would
get home, but she did not come. It was necessary they provide for
themselves for the fact that this thing came to an end. She could
not bear it any longer.

She had thought that he would continue with
anger as soon as he waited ten minutes did he smash the doors and
put the house on fire would.

But as he sat quietly and smiled and
waited. She felt neither hate nor love for him. But an inner voice
warned her to give back to his power. She also wanted her Gösta keep
given word. There
was something holy, something reverent in that love which the years had ripened and mellowed
with tenderness; something that was profound, that made of this night's work a sacrilege in
touching them--and that poor jewel, clung to all too obviously through adversity for its past
associations, was probably the last real thing of intrinsic value they possessed!

"I am not sure," muttered Jimmie Dale--he was fingering the automatic in his pocket, "I am
not sure that I can trust myself to-night!"

Ten minutes' walk from the subway brought him before a dingy and dilapidated three-story tenement
on the East Side. The Nest, they called it in the underworld; and worthily so, for its roof
sheltered more of the cheaper and petty class of criminals probably than any other single dwelling
in New York--the steerers, the hangers-on, the stalls, those of the lesser breed of vultures,
and the more vicious therefore, who at best made but a precarious livelihood from their iniquitous
pursuits.

One of Jimmie Dale's shoulders was hunched forward, giving a crude and ill-fitting set to his
fashionably tailored, Fifth Avenue coat; he staggered slightly, and the flap of his collar
protruded, while his tie, pulled out, sprawled over his vest; also his slouch hat, badly crushed
and looking as though it had rolled in the mire of the street, was tilted forward at an unhappy
angle until it was balanced on the bridge of his nose. Men, women, and children passed him
by--for the street was crowded--paying him not the slightest attention. He lurched in through
the front door of the tenement, swayed up against the hallway inside--and stood there, still
swaying a little.

It was dark here, and the atmosphere was musty and fetid; a murmur pervaded the place as of
voices behind many closed doors, but apart from that the tenement might have been empty and
deserted for all the signs of life it evidenced. And then the spot where Jimmie Dale had stood
was vacant, and he was along the narrow hallway without a sound, and, opening a door at the
rear, stood peering out. After a moment, he closed the door again without fastening it; and,
back once more toward the front of the hallway, began to creep silently up the stairs.

He reached the top landing. Old Attic had two miserable rooms here, where he conducted his
even more miserable business! Jimmie Dale dropped on his knees before the door that faced the
head of the stairs, and placed his ear to the panel. Noiselessly he tried the door. It was
locked. He was smiling that merciless smile again in the darkness, as his deft, slim fingers
worked at the keyhole. He was not too late this time! Old Jake was there, and--yes, Thorold,
too. They were even now haggling over the pendant--he could hear them quite distinctly now
with the door open a crack.

He pushed the door open a little wider, but very slowly, scarcely an inch at a time. He was
in luck again! They were in the inner room. He opened the door still a little wider, stepped
softly over the threshold, and closed the door behind him.

Save for a dim light that filtered out through the half open door of the inner room, it was
dark here. Slowly, with that almost uncanny, silent tread that he had acquired on the creaky,
rickety stairs of the old Sanctuary, Jimmie Dale began to move forward, the weight of his body
wholly and firmly on one foot before the other was lifted from the floor; and, as he advanced,
the black silk mask, from a pocket in the leather girdle, was drawn over his face.

He could see them now quite plainly--the twisted, crunched-up form of old Jake, with his tawny-bearded
face, and narrow, shifting little black eyes; the smooth-shaven, suave, oily, cunning countenance
of Thorold, the super-crook. Both were sitting at a table in the miserly appointed room, whose
only other articles of furniture were a cheap iron bed and a few chairs. Old Jake was whining;
Thorold's voice held an angry rasp.

"Four thousand, you cursed miser, and not a cent less," Thorold was saying.

"Three," whined the other. "You ain't splitting fair. I got to take the stones out of their
setting, and sell 'em for what I can get. Stolen stuff's got to go cheap. You know that."

"It's worth ten or twelve, and you'll get at least eight for it," growled Thorold. "That's
four apiece--and I've got to split mine again with the guy that pinched it. Hurry up, d'yer
hear--I've got a date with him in half an hour over in my office."

"Ha, ha!" cackled old Jake. "Are you trying to be funny? All the thief gets out of it from
you won't make much of a hole in your share!"

"That's my business!" snapped Thorold. "You come across!"

"Three!" whined old Jake again.

"Four!" Thorold flung back angrily.

"Well, let's have a look at it then; I ain't seen it for years," grumbled old Jake. "I ain't
trying to do you. We went into this thing so's we'd each get the same out of it; but I tell
you it ain't easy to shove big stones when there'll be a police description out against them,
and there ain't no big prices for 'em, either."

Thorold reached into his pocket--and even in the dull light of the single gas-jet that alone
illuminated the room, Jimmie Dale caught the fire and flash of the magnificent stones in the
pendant that swung to and fro now, as the man held it up.

Old Jake, his hand trembling with eagerness, snatched at it, and, as Thorold laughed shortly,
dove his fingers into a greasy vest pocket, and produced a jeweller's magnifying glass, which
he screwed into his eye.

"One of these has got a flaw, and it's cloudy," he mumbled.

"Never mind about the flaw! Flash your wad!" invited Thorold, with a thin smile.

Jimmie Dale's hand slipped under his vest to a pocket in the leather girdle, and from the thin
metal case, with the aid of the tiny tweezers, lifted out a gray seal, and laid it lightly
on the inside edge of his left-hand sleeve. He replaced the metal case with his right hand,
and with his right hand drew his automatic from his pocket. He crept forward again, inch by
inch toward the door of the inner room.

Old Jake laid the pendant on the table, and from some mysterious recess in his clothing pulled
out a huge roll of banknotes.

"I'll make it three and a half until I see what I can get for it. That's all I've got here,
anyway." He began to count the money, laying it bill by bill on the table. "If I get more than
seven, I'll split the difference even. That's fair. That's the way it's been ever since we
started this. I don't know exactly what I can get for this, and--"

And then Jimmie Dale was in the room, his automatic covering the two men.

"Don't move please, gentlemen!" he said quietly, as he stepped to the table. His eyes behind
the mask travelled from the diamond pendant to the pile of banknotes, and from the banknotes
to the two men, whose faces had gone suddenly white, and who now sat rigidly in their chairs,
as though turned to stone. "I appear to be in luck to-night!" His lips, just showing beneath
the mask, parted in a hard smile. "I was passing by, and--" His left hand reached out, swept
up the money and the diamond pendant--and in their place, fluttering from his sleeve, a gray
seal fell upon the table.

There was a sharp, quick cry from Thorold--and the muzzle of Jimmie Dale's automatic swung
like a flash to a level with the man's eyes. Old Jake had crumpled up now in his chair, and
was glaring wildly at the little diamond-shaped piece of paper; he licked his lips with his
tongue, there was fear in his eyes.

"The Gray Seal! The Gray Seal!" he muttered hoarsely.

"I appear to be in luck to-night!" said Jimmie Dale again. "And"--he put the money and the
diamond pendant coolly in his pocket--"it would be too bad if I didn't play it up, wouldn't
it? It doesn't often come as easy as this. Amazing carelessness to leave that outside door
unlocked! But, as I was saying, with such a lavish display of opulence on the table, one is
almost led to hope that there might be more where that came from. Now--"

"I haven't got any more--not another cent! Honest, I haven't!" old Jake cried hysterically.
"I swear to God, I haven't, and--"

"You hold your tongue!" There was a sudden snarl in Jimmie Dale's low tones. The man's voice
was rising dangerously loud. "I'll attend to you in a moment!" He swung on Thorold again; and,
with his pistol pressed close against the man, felt deftly and swiftly over the other in search
of weapons. He laughed tersely, finding none. "Empty your pockets out on the table!" he ordered
curtly.

The man hesitated.

Jimmie Dale smiled--unpleasantly.

Thorold swept a bead of sweat from his forehead. His lips were working nervously. All suavity
and polish were gone now; there were only viciousness and fear, each struggling with the other
for the mastery in the man's smug face.

"Damn you, you blasted snitch!" he burst out furiously. "We'll get you down here some day, and--"

"Some day, perhaps," said Jimmie Dale softly. "But to-night--did I explain that I was in a
hurry--Thorold! Every pocket inside out, please!"

Thorold's hand went reluctantly to his pockets. He began with the inside pocket of his coat,
laying a pile of letters and papers on the table.

"Anything there you want?" he sneered.

"Go on!" prompted Jimmie Dale.

From vest pockets came a varied assortment of articles--watch, cigars, a cigar-cutter, a silver-mounted
pencil, and a fountain pen. The man's hands travelled to his outside coat pockets.

"The inside pocket of the vest, Thorold," suggested Jimmie Dale coldly.

With a malicious snort, Thorold unbuttoned his vest, and turned the pocket out. There was nothing
in it.

Jimmie Dale nodded complacently.

"My mistake, Thorold," he murmured apologetically. "Go on!"

The man continued to denude himself of his effects, but with increasing savagery and reluctance.
There was silence in the room--and then suddenly, so faint as to be almost inaudible, there
was a soft pat upon the floor. Jimmie Dale did not turn his head.

"I think you dropped something, Jake," he observed pleasantly. "Now take your foot off it,
and put it on the table!"

A miserable smile twisting his lips, old Jake stooped, picked up a roll of bills, and, mumbling
and crooning to himself, laid it on the table. Jimmie Dale immediately transferred it to his
pocket.

"Yes," he said, "I certainly seem to be in luck tonight! That all you got, Thorold?" He reached
forward, and possessed himself of a well-filled wallet that Thorold had added to the heterogeneous
collection in front of him.

Thorold's face was black with fury.

"There's the watch, you cheap poke-getter!" he choked. "Don't forget to frisk that while you're
at it!"

Jimmie Dale examined the collection with a sort of imperturbable appraisement.

"No," he said judicially. "You can keep your watch, Thorold; I haven't got the same lay as
our friend Jake here, and that sort of thing is too hard to get rid of to make it worth while.
I'll take these, and that's all." He whipped the pile of letters and papers into his pocket.
"You see, with a man of your profession, there is always the chance of there being something
valuable amongst--"

Jimmie Dale never finished the sentence. With a sudden, low, tigerish cry, Thorold heaved the
end of the table upward between himself and Jimmie Dale--and, quick as a cat, as Jimmie Dale
staggered backward, leaped from behind it.

"Get him, Jake! Get him, Jake!" he cried. "He won't dare to fire in here for the noise. Get
him, you fool, he--"

But Jimmie Dale was the quicker of the two. A vicious left full on the point of Thorold's jaw
stopped the man's rush--but only for the fraction of a second. Thorold, recovering instantly,
flung his body forward, and his arms wrapped themselves around Jimmie Dale's neck. And now,
old Jake, screeching like a madman, was circling around them, snatching, clawing, striking
at Jimmie Dale's face and head.

Thorold was a powerful man; and at the first tight-locked grip, as they swayed together, trained
athlete though he was himself, Jimmie Dale realised that he had met his match. Again and again,
with all his strength he tried to throw the other from him. Around and around the room they
staggered and lurched--and around and around them followed the wizened, twisted form of old
Jake, like a hovering hawk, darting in at every opportunity for a blow, shrieking, yelling,
cursing with infuriated abandon. And then from below, a greater peril still, came the opening
and shutting of doors, voices calling--the tenement, at the racket, like a hive of hornets
disturbed, was beginning to stir into life. If they caught him there! If they caught the Gray
Seal there! It brought a desperate strength to Jimmie Dale. He had heard too often that slogan
of the underworld--death to the Gray Seal!

He tore one of Thorold's arms free from his neck--they were cheek to cheek--Thorold was snarling
out a torrent of blasphemy with gasping breath--he wrenched himself free still--and then, their
two hands outstretched and clasped together as though in some grim devil's waltz, they reeled
toward the bed at the far end of the room, and smashed into a chair. And, as they lost their
balance, Jimmie Dale, gathering all his strength for the one supreme effort, hurled the other
from him. There was a crash that shook the floor, as Thorold, hurtling backwards, struck his
head with terrific force against the iron bedstead, and dropped like a log.

Jimmie Dale was on his feet again in an instant--but not before old Jake had run, yelling madly,
from the room. A glance Jimmie Dale gave at Thorold, who lay limp and motionless, a crimson
stream beginning to trickle over temple and cheek; then, with a bound, he reached the gas-jet,
and turned out the light.

Old Jake's voice screamed from the hallway without:

"Help! The Gray Seal! The Gray Seal! Help! Help! Quick! The Gray Seal!"

The staircase creaked under the rush of feet; yells began to well up from below. Jimmie Dale
darted into the outer room, and crouched down beside the doorway.

"Death to the Gray Seal!" The whole building, in a pandemonium of hellish glee, seemed to echo
and reecho the shout.

Jimmie Dale was deadly calm now, as his fingers closed around his automatic--and, deadly cool,
the keen, alert, active brain was at work. It was black about him, pitch black, there were
no lights in the hallway--yes, a dull glimmer now--a door farther along had opened--but dark
enough in here where he waited. There was a chance--with the odds heavily against him--but
it was the only way.

They were on the landing outside now; and now, old Jake shouting excitedly amongst them, a
dozen forms swept through the doorway, and scuffing, stamping, yelling, made for the inner
room--and Jimmie Dale slipped out into the hall. His lips pressed tightly together. That had
been as he had expected, but the danger still lay before him--in the three flights of stairs.
Some one was coming up now, more than one, the stragglers--but there would be stragglers until
the last occupant of the tenement was aroused. He dared not wait. In a minute more, in less
than a minute, they would have lighted the gas again in there and found him gone.

He jumped for the head of the stairs--a dark form loomed up before him. Jimmie Dale launched
himself full at the other. There was a cry of surprise, an oath, the man pitched sideways,
and Jimmie Dale sprang by. A yell went up from the man behind him; it was echoed by a wild
chorus from above, as of wolves robbed of their prey; it was re-echoed by shouts from the stairways
and halls below--and with his left hand on the banisters to guide him, taking the stairs four
and five at a time, Jimmie Dale went down--and now, aiming at the ground, his revolver spat
and barked a vicious warning, cutting lurid flashes through the murk ahead of him.

Doors that were open along the hallways shut with a hurried bang; dark forms, like rats running
for their holes, scuttled to safety; women screamed and shrieked; children whimpered. On Jimmie
Dale ran. For the second time he crashed into a form, and won by. They were firing at him from
above now--but by guesswork--firing down the stair well. The pound of feet racing down the
stairs came from behind him--two flights behind him--he calculated he had that much start.
He gained the entrance hallway where all was dark, leaped for the front door, opened it, pulled
it shut with a violent slam--and, whirling instantly, running swiftly and silently back along
the hall, he reached the rear door that he had left unfastened, darted out, and a moment later,
swinging himself over a high, backyard fence, dropped down into the lane beyond. Whipping off
his mask, he ran on like a hare until he approached the lane's intersection with a cross street.
And here, well back from the street, he paused to regain his breath and rearrange his dishevelled
attire; then, edging forward, he peered cautiously up and down--and smiled grimly--and stepped
out on the street. He was a good block away from the tenement.

From the direction of the Nest came sounds of disorder and riot. A patrolman's whistle rang
out shrilly. It had been as close a call perhaps as the Gray Seal had ever known--but, at that,
the night's work was not ended! There was still the actual thief. Thorold had said he was to
meet the man in his, Thorold's, office in half an hour to split their ill-gotten gains. Jimmie
Dale's jaw squared. The thief! His hand at his side clenched suddenly. Would it be only the
thief, or would he have to reckon with Thorold again as well? Could Thorold keep the appointment?
It was a question of how badly Thorold was hurt, and that he did not know.

Jimmie Dale walked on another block, still another, then turned so as to bring him into, but
well up, the street on which the tenement was situated. From here, far down the ill-lighted
street, he could see a mob gathered outside the Nest. And then, as he stood hesitant, there
came the strident clang of a bell, the beat of hoofs, and he caught the name of the hospital
on the side of an ambulance as it tore by--and, at that, he swung suddenly about, and, making
his way across to Broadway, boarded an uptown car.

Twenty minutes later, he closed the door of a telephone booth in a saloon on lower Sixth Avenue
behind him, and consulting the directory for the number, called the hospital.

"This is police headquarters speaking," said Jimmie Dale coolly. "What's the condition of that
tenement case with the broken head?"

"Hold the wire a minute," came the answer; and then, presently: "Not serious; but still unconscious."

"Thank you," said Jimmie Dale.

He hung up the receiver, and made his way out to the street. The coast was clear then, as far
as Thorold was concerned. The gods of
hatred and revenge, you can kill, but only them. "

But the old man takes her hand, places it on the book and returned
with the fanaticism of the Disbelief:

"If you read this, you have
to believe!"

"Then it should never come before my eyes," she says, "because if
I do not think I can .

Life "

And it leaves the philosopher, lost in grief. But he sits there and ponders long after she's
gone. -

These old books, described closely with blasphemous words are not
from the World tested.

Eberhard's uncle still has the name of the pinnacles of fame not climbed.

His great work is kept in a chest in the attic under the Pulpiturtreppe Svartsjöer in the church
until the end of the century it will come to light.

But why did he do that?

He feared not being able to prove his allegations?

Was before he afraid persecution? Oh - you do not know Eberhard.

Then you shall know it then! He loved the truth, not his own glory: why has this he, and not
that sacrificed so that the child he loved as a father in the faith can die in what has loved
it!

O Love, you're in the Eternal Truth!

The girl from Nygaard

No one knows the spot under the mountain, where the fir trees grow most densely and where a thick
Layer of soft moss covers the earth. How could anyone know the most? He never previously been
entered by humans. No footpath leads to the hidden spot. Rocks pile up around him, guarding
him engverflochtene juniper branches, twigs and withered fallen tree trunks blocking the way, the
shepherd can not find him, the fox despised him.

It's the loneliest spot in the forest, and now thousands of people look for it.

What an endless train of seekers! They would fill the church and Bro by Löfviks and Svartsjö of
the bargain. What an endless train of seekers!

Children who do not receive permission to join the procession, are on the road or sitting on
the fences and hedges, wherever the train is passing. The kids have not even thought that there are
so many people around the world, an infinite set. If they are large, they still remember that
long, heaving tide. Your eyes are with tears only fill in the memory of the overwhelming, this enormous
train along the way see where they used to see nothing else all day long pull than a few lonely
Hikers, beggar or a farmer's wagon.

All who dwell on the way to go and ask, "Is a misfortune befell the country? If the enemy moved
in.? Wherever you go, you people walking where you're going?

"

"We are looking for," they reply.

"We have two days looking for. We want to search even today; longer we can not stand it. We want
to search the forest of the pine tree and Björne Heights west of Ekeby. "

The train is by Nygaard, considered a poor village in the eastern mountains. The pretty young
girl with thick black hair and red cheeks has disappeared for eight
days been.

The broom girl who wanted to make her his bride Gosta Berling, has in the large forests lost.
For eight days, no one has seen them.

Since breaking the people from Nygaard in order to search it. And
all the people she met with were, to look at.

From every house people came to get the train to join.

As it happens because often that one a newcomer asks: "Men of Nygaard,
where this is everything?

Why do you ließet the pretty girl to go alone to foreign ways?

The Forest is deep, and God has taken her mind. "

"You no one adds to an injury," she replied then, "and it does no one any harm. She goes as
safe as a child. Who's probably safer than the one must guard the God himself? It is otherwise
always come back. "

So the train searching through the eastern forests is drawn to separate the Nygaard from the
plain. Now, on the third day, he moves past the Broer Church, west
of Ekeby To forests.

But where the train comes roaring towards them, a storm of wonder, must always Man from the
crowd stay behind to answer the questions: "What do you want? What do you want? To answer. "

"We
look for the blue-eyed, black-haired young girl. She has placed in
the forest to die.

She's been away for eight days. "

"Why it has lain down in the woods to die? Was she hungry? Was she unhappy? "

"No, Not it has not suffered, but a misfortune has befallen this spring. You has the great priest,
Gosta Berling seen, and loved him for several years. You knew no better. God has taken her mind.
"

"Yes, God has deprived of their minds, men of Nygaard."

"This spring arrived the disaster. Until then, he had never seen. Then said it to her that
she should be his bride. It was just a joke, and he ran it again, but she could not be comforted.
They always came back to Ekeby. She followed him to his heels wherever he went. He was tired
of them. When she was last there, rushed to the dogs on them.

Since then nobody has seen them. "

On, men! It is a human life. A man has been placed in the forest to die. Perhaps she is already dead or
maybe she is still walking around out there and can the right path not found. The forest is
big, and her mind is on God.

Schließet you on the course, come with me!

Let the oats are squatting until the thin grains fall from the ears, let the potatoes to rot
in the ground, let go of the horse, so they do not die of thirst in the barn, let the barn door
to be open so that the cows night under the roof can come, take it with the children because
the children belong to God.

God is with the little ones, and he directs their steps. They should help, where human intelligence
is over.

Come all, men, women and children! Who dares to stay home? Who can know whether God does not want
to just use him? ! Come, all ye of Mercy need of, so that your soul has not once helpless to
fluctuate around the arid sites, place without being able to rest.

Come! God has taken her mind, and the forest is large.

Ah, who can find the spot where the fir trees are thickest, where
the moss on the softest is?

Is there not something dark hard on the mountain wall? Oh, a bunch of ants. Blessed is he of
the path of the deflected goals! There is nothing else!

What a train! No solemn procession of decorated to greet the winner, the flowers on scatters its
way and met with cheers from his ears, with no pilgrimage psalms and swishing whip marks on his
way to the holy grave, not to Auswandererzug crunching truck that takes off to new homes for
people in their need to look, no army with drums and guns, there
are only farmers in work clothes made of both wall tolerated with
leather aprons, their women with knitting socks in hand, the children
the back or hanging on the skirts.

It is great to see people united to great goals. Let them go out to their benefactors welcome
to praise their God, to seek new ground to defend their country; let them move! These people,
however, has no hunger, no fear of God, no strife driven out. Your effort is in vain, their work
without wages, they only draw out to a lunatic to . See How many drops of sweat, as many steps
as this may also cost a lot of prayers, but they have no other reward
than to rediscover a poor lunatics whose brains is with God.

Can you help but love these people? Should not anyone who has seen it pass by, the Tears to the
eyes when he recalls himself in spirit, these men with the sharp Trains and the hard hands, women
with furrowed brows, and before the time these children who God should
lead to the right place?

He fills the road, this train of sad seekers. With earnest eyes they see the Forest on, with
gloomy faces, they migrate there because they know that they have a better chance to find a dead woman
as a survivor.

Ah, the Black there under the mountain wall, it is surely no anthill - but maybe a fallen tree?
Praise be to God, it's just a fallen tree. But that just may you
see it's not because the pines are so close together.

As long is the train that the foremost, the strong men, already on the forest west of Björne
reached, while the last, the crippled and the poor old men and women
who take their small children, barely passed at the Broby Church.

And then all this billowing train disappears into the dark forest.

The morning sun shines him under the pine trees - is the setting sun of the evening, meet the
hosts, if made the forest come.

It is the third day that they are seeking. They are accustomed to
this work.

You are looking at the steep rock wall where the foot slips under the toppled trees, where you
can easily arm and leg may break under the branches of the dense
pines that hang on the soft moss, and Invite to rest.

The hiding of the bear, the cave of the fox, the underground construction
of the badger, the black Floor, stood on the pile of coal, the red
Kronsbeerenberg, the fir with white needles, the mountain that has
haunted the forest fire a month ago, the stone that of the giant cast
then was all they found, but not the stain on the Mountain wall, where
the black is.

No one has been there to see if it's a bunch of ants , or a tree or a human. Oh, it is certainly
a man, but nobody is there been, no one has seen them.

The sun does come out it on the other side of the forest, but the
young girl, whose mind has taken God is not found.

What should they do now? Are they the Forest search again? The forest is dangerous in the
dark, there are bottomless Moore and steep ravines.

And what they do, who found nothing but the sun was shining, well now To find out she is gone?

"Let
us go Ekeby," says one of the soldiers.

"Let us go Ekeby," they call them all. "Let us go Ekeby!"

"Let us ask these gentlemen, why they let go the dogs to one whose mind God had made, so they
drove one insane to despair.

Our poor, hungry Children are crying, our clothes are torn, the grain is in Hocken, until the
kernels from the Sleeve case, the potatoes rot in the ground, our horses running around wild,
our Cows are without care, we ourselves are about to die from fatigue
- all is their fault.

Let us go to court Ekeby and talk about them! Let us go Ekeby!

"This year, the condemnation, we must pay for all farmers. God's hand is resting on hard us, the
winter will bring us to starvation. Who seek God's hand?

The pastor of Broby it was not. His prayers were still penetrate up to the throne of the Most
High. Who can probably be different from these gentlemen? Let us go Ekeby!

"You have ruined the good, they have driven the major's wife as a beggar on the road. It is their
fault that we are without work.

It is their fault that we have to starve. The Is not her work. Let us go Ekeby! "

And then rush dark, bitter men Ekeby gene, hungry women with crying children on the arm to follow
them, will last the crippled and the weak old man.

And the bitterness flows like a current through the growing ranks of the old man, he goes to
the women and of the women on the strong men at the top of the train on.

The autumn flood is coming!

Do you remember the spring flood, gentlemen? Now come new waves herabgebraust from the mountains,
now has a new destruction goes on Ekeby honor and power there.

A day laborer who plows the field by the way, hear the angry cries of the crowd. He stressed one of
the horses, sits on it and blow away into Ekeby.

"The disaster is coming!" he shouts. "The bears are coming! The wolves are coming! The evil
spirits come and take Ekeby! "

He rides around in the yard, beside himself with terror.

"All the evil spirits of the forest are go!" he shouts. "They come and put the yard on fire and beat
the Cavaliers dead And behind he heard the roar and the roar of the crowds storming forward.
The autumn flood roars down gene Ekeby!

Do they know what they want, these forward-storming tide of anger?

       Will they fire, will they murder, they will pillage?

There are no people coming, they are the evil spirits of the forest,
wild animals the desert.

We sinister forces that we must keep hidden under the earth, we are a single, blissful hour
free. The revenge has freed us.

They are the spirits of the mountains have broken the ore, it is the spirits of the forest, Like
the trees that have guarded the kiln, it is the spirits of the field that the grain could grow:
they are free, they use their powers for destruction. Death of Ekeby! Death of the pensioners!

Here the spirits flowing freely. Here the gold is piled in the cellar vaults. Here, the pantries
are full of grain and meat. Why should the children of the righteous starving and living in
plenty culprit?

But now their time is over. The cup is full, gentlemen! Your lilies, you never spun have you birds
that you have never been collected in the barn, the cup is full! In the forest is they addressed
and we are its ambassadors.

It is not a magistrate, not a magistrate who was your verdict falls. She, who is in the forest,
has directed you.

The pensioners are up in the main building and come see the people. You know, whose they are
indicted. Exceptionally, they have been innocent. If the poor girl in the Walde has lain down
to die, so this did not happen, because they incited the dogs they
- That they never did - but because Gosta Berling with eight days
Countess Elizabeth had married.

But what good it can be to talk to this man mad? If you are tired, they are hungry, it irritates
the throat, the rapacity spurs them on. They will come forth plunged with wild cries, and
before them rode the day laborer, has made the terror mad. "The Bears come the wolves come,
the evil spirits come and take Ekeby! "

The Cavaliers have hidden the young countess in the innermost room. Lowenberg and uncle Eberhard
will sit there and watch while the rest goes to the crowd. You standing on the steps outside
the main building, unarmed and smiling, as the first noisy Swarm approach penetrates up to them.

And
people are still in front of this small band of peaceful men. There are individual under them who
they like in their red-hot bitterness thrown to the ground and in
iron with their Paragraphs were trampled to death as people in the
mine to sound it with fifty years ago the Administrator and the inspector
have done, but they were in closed doors, in bold raised Weapons have
been taken, they had expected resistance and struggle.

"Dear friends," said the cavaliers, "dear friends, you are tired and hungry, eat a Piece of bread
and, above all, the costs to Ekeby brewed spirits. "

The swarm does not want to hear from like, one crying and threatening, but the Cavaliers take it is not
bad.

"Wait, then," they say, 'wait a moment!

See, Ekeby you open the cellar door is open, the storehouse is open, the milk bar is open. Your
wives are close out with fatigue to fall down, cry the children.

First we want to give them food and drink create, afterwards you can kill us. We will not run
away.

But we have the whole floor full of apples, which we will get for your children. "

* * * * *

An hour later, the festival on Ekeby in full swing, the greatest feast that ever on the Well
proud has taken place is in the autumn night by the light of the large, bright full moon celebrated.

The
pile of wood are torn down and burnt, on the whole court, a fire
flared up next another.

The people sit in groups and enjoy the warmth and calm, while all
Goods of the earth be poured over them.

Able men went to the barns and stables and have got what you needed it. Calves and sheep are slaughtered
and cooked in no time. These hundreds of hungry People swallow the food. One animal after another
is brought out and slaughtered. It looks as if all the rooms should
be emptied overnight.

They had just held in the days of big autumn bakery on Ekeby.

Since the young Countess stayed there, were the domestic work in
progress.

It was as think the young woman no moment that she was the wife of Gosta Berling now. Neither
he nor she spoke a word about it, then she went to the mistress of Ekeby. She sought, as any
good virtuous woman is doing to help with burning zeal of the waste
and the negligent, which prevailed in the court.

And they obeyed. The people felt a certain sense of comfort, to be back under a homemaker.

But what it did now that they had the kitchen floor can fill up with bread, implying for butter
and beer had taken care that the whole of September through until
she was there, Cheese had prepared?

What all this helped now?

Come out with all that is here to help burn down the people and the
pensioners not Ekeby not kill.

Her barrel and barrel, give me the ham from the smoke floor, with the Brandy barrels, with
the apples!

How devious Ekeby whole wealth presumably to appease the peasants? Can we get away from here without
a crime has happened, we must look forward.

Everything that happens happens, but eventually only for them who
are now in Lady Ekeby is.

The Cavaliers are bold and weapons knowledgeable men, they would have defended himself, if I'd had
her own head.

They would prefer these rapacious hordes have deterred some sharp shots - it would not be
stayed for her sake, which is mild and gentle, who asked for the people.

The further vorschreitet the night, so mild, the mood among the people. The heat and the quiet
and the food and the spirits to appease their violent agitation.

You start joking and laughing, drinking beer, the funeral of the girl from Nygaard; Shame
on him who makes it infirmity at the funeral of thirst and beer jokes,
which belongs to both!

Children take over the vast amounts of fruit,
which brings to them. Poor day laborers children keep the wild berries
for treats, indulge in the clear glass apples in the mouth To melt
into the long, sweet tomatoes for the yellowish white lemon apples,
in the Pears with red cheeks and the plums of all kinds, the yellow,
red, blue. Ah! nothing is too good for the mob, if he chooses to show
his power!

When it's midnight, it almost looks as if the band are
preparing to depart wants. The Cavaliers bring any food or drinks
are more, they draw no more from cork tap the bottle and no more beer.
Facilitated them to sigh with the feeling that the Danger is over.

But
just at the moment is visible in a window of the main building a light.
All, then look at the scream. A youthful female figure with the light.

It
lasts only a moment. The apparition disappears, but people believe
that they the bearer of light has discovered.

"She had thick black
hair and red cheeks," they shout. "She's there, they keep Hidden here!
"

"Oh, you gentlemen, have you it there? Do you have our child, whose
mind has taken God Ekeby here? Your wicked, what you do with it? And
let us through your week in this Fear! Let us look for her for three
whole days! Away with the wine and food! Woe to us that we have assumed
something out of your hand! Give us out first, then we will have To
see what we want to do with you! "

The very first tamed wild animal
howls and roars. In frenzied leaps it rushes to Ekeby.

The people
are fast, the Cavaliers are still faster. They rush up and push the
bar before the hall door. But what they can do against these thronging
crowds? One door after another is broken. The pensioners are being
suppressed, they have no Weapons. They are surrounded by the dense
crowd, so that they can not move. The People want to look into the
house and the girl from Nygaard.

You can find them in the last room.
No one has time to pay attention to whether they blond or dark is.
You lift it up and carry them out. It should not be afraid, they say.
They just want the pensioners to the throat. They have come to save
them.

But how to get out now emanating from the building, they meet
another train.

At the loneliest spot in the woods no more lies the
corpse of a girl from the high Fallen down the slope and died in the
traps is. A child she has found. Some of the Seekers who had been
delayed in the forest, they have raised on their shoulders. Here they
come.

She is more beautiful in death as she was in life. Beautiful
she is, as it lies there, with their long, Dark hair. She is a wonderful
phenomenon, now that the rest of her eternal peace.

lifted high on
the shoulders of men, it is supported by the crowds. It is still and
silent, where she comes over. Homage bowed head all the majesty of
death.

"She's only just died," whispered the men, "she is still wandering
in the forest. She probably will flee before us, who they sought,
and is brought down while the rocks. "

But if this is the girl from
Nygaard, who's the one that was carried out of Ekeby?

The train comes
out of the forest along with the procession from Ekeby. The bright
bursts flicker on the whole court. People can see the two women and
they can recognize. The other is indeed the young Countess of Borg!

"But
what does this mean? Is this a new crime that we are on the trail?
Why is the young countess here Ekeby? Why did you tell us that they
are far away or even was dead? In the name of eternal justice! Do
not we now rush on the pensioners and they connect with our iron-shod
heels to death? "

Since echoes a well-sounding voice. Gosta Berling
has risen to the railing of the stairs and speak from there.

"Hear
me, ye monsters, you devils! Do not you think, then, that there rifles
and powder Ekeby there? You foolish people! Do not you mean that I
have had the greatest pleasure, you all to the winds to shoot like
mad dogs? But there has asked for you. Oh, I had known that you would
touch them, so would not one of you be Keep living!

"Why make it
here tonight scandal and raid us, such as predators and threatens
us with Murder and fire? What have I to do with your crazy girl? There was no sound, save a low, almost
inaudible murmur of voices from the windows above him--nothing from the direction of that dark,
oblong window that he could reach out and touch now. The Magpie was presumably not at home!

The long, slim, tapering fingers, whose nerves, tingling sensitively at the tips, were as eyes
to Jimmie Dale, those fingers that, to the Gray Seal, were like some magical "open sesame"
to the most intricate safes and vaults, felt along the window sill, and, from the sill, made
a circuit of the sash. The window, he found, was hinged at one side and opened inward; and
now, under the pressure of his steel jimmy, inserted between the ledge and the lower portion
of the frame, it began to yield.

Lying there on the ground, Jimmie Dale, his head close to the opening, listened with strained
attention again. He had not made much noise, scarcely any--not enough even to have aroused
the Magpie if, say, by any chance, the Magpie were within asleep. The sounds from the floor
above seemed to be louder now, to reach him more distinctly, but from the basement room itself
there was nothing, no sound even of breathing.

Satisfied that the room was unoccupied, Jimmie Dale pushed the window wide open, and peered
in. It was like looking into some dark cavernous hole, and he could not distinguish a single
object. Then his hand slipped into his pocket for his flashlight, and the round, white ray
shot downward and around the place. The floor of the room was perhaps five feet below the level
of the window sill; to the left, against the wall, was a bed; there was a chair, a table sadly
in need of repair, a few garments hanging from nails driven haphazardly into the plaster, and,
save for a dirty piece of carpet on the floor, nothing else. The flashlight played slowly around
the room. Opposite the window was the door, and suspended from the centre of the ceiling was
a single incandescent lamp.

With a sort of grim nod of approval, Jimmie Dale snapped off his flashlight, and, turning around,
worked himself in through the window feet first, and dropped silently to the floor. He had
only to wait now until the Magpie returned--whether it was a question of hours or minutes.

Jimmie Dale made his way to the chair, and sat down--and again he nodded his head grimly. It
was very simple; he had only to wait, and this place, this burrow of the Magpie's, could not
have been improved upon for his purpose. It was eminently suitable, so suitable that there
seemed something ironical in the fact that it should have been the Magpie who had chosen it.
One could commit murder here, and none would be the wiser--and none would be more keenly alive
to that than the Magpie himself! A threat from the Gray Seal in these surroundings left nothing
to be desired. They were making too much noise above to hear anything in this room below the
ground, and the little window afforded an instant means of escape without the slightest danger
of discovery. Yes; the Magpie, not being a fool, would very thoroughly appreciate all this.

Time passed. It was a nerve racking vigil that Jimmie Dale kept, sitting there in the chair--waiting.
It was so dark he could not have seen his hand before his face. And it was silent, in spite
of that queer composite sound of voices, and shuffling feet, and the occasional squeak of chair
legs from above--a silence that seemed to belong to this miserable hole alone, that seemed
immune from all extraneous noises. And after a time, in a curious way, the silence seemed to
palpitate, to beat upon the ear-drums, to grow almost uncanny.

His lips tightened a little, and he smiled commiseratingly at himself. His nerves were getting
a little too tautly strung, that was all; he was listening too intently for that expected step
upon the stair, for the opening of that door he faced. And it was not like him to have an attack
of nerves--and especially in view of the fact that his plan, in the simplicity of its execution
did not even warrant anxiety for its success. He had only to remain quiet until the Magpie
entered and turned on the light, then clap his automatic to the Magpie's head--the psychology
of fear would do the rest. And yet--what was it? As the minutes dragged along, fight it as
he would, a distinct depression, a panicky sort of uneasiness, was settling down upon him.
The darkness, in a most unpleasant and disconcerting way, seemed to be full of eeriness, of
warnings.

For perhaps ten minutes he sat there in the chair, silent and motionless, angry, struggling
with himself--but his disquietude would not down; rather, it but grew the stronger, until it
took the form of imagining that he was not alone in the room. He scowled contemptuously at
himself. There was another psychology than that of fear--the psychology of suggestion. That
silence, palpitating in his ear-drums, began to whisper: "You are not alone here--you are not
alone--you are not alone."

Was that a sound there outside the door? A step cautiously approaching? He leaned forward tensely.
No--his laugh was low, short, furious--no! It was only from above, that sound.

Jimmie Dale's face hardened. It was childish, this sensation of presence in the room; but it
was also unnerving. Why should so unusual a thing happen to him to-night? Was it purely over-wrought
nerves, due to the strain of the peril he ran as Larry the Bat--or was it intuition? Intuition
had never failed him yet. Well, whatever it was, he would put a stop to it. He was here to-night
to get the Magpie, and nothing should interfere with that. Nothing! He and the Magpie would
square accounts to-night--and square them once for all!

Not alone here in the Magpie's den--eh? His flashlight streamed out, and began slowly and deliberately
to circle the room. If his brain was so restless and active that it must indulge in fantasies,
it could at least be diverted into another channel than--Jimmie Dale strained forward suddenly
in his chair. That was a pair of boots there at the foot of the bed. There was nothing strange
in a pair of boots, but these boots were poised most curiously on their heels, with the toes
pointing upward. They just barely protruded from the foot of the bed, which accounted for his
not having been able to see them from the window when he had flashed his light around--he could
not see the upper portions of them even now. And then, under his breath, Jimmie Dale jeered
at himself again. True, the boots were in a most peculiar position, but had his nerves reached
the state where a pair of boots would throw him into a panic! How logical for some one to be
hiding there under the bed--with his feet in plain view! And yet what held the boots upright
like that? The foot of the bed itself? Jammed there, perhaps? Or--

"Damn it!" gritted Jimmie Dale. "I'm worse than a child to-night!"

He rose from his chair, stepped across the room to the foot of the bed--and like a man dazed,
his flashlight playing on the boots, his automatic flung forward in his hand, he stood staring
downward, following his flashlight's ray with his eyes. Was he mad! Was his brain now playing
him some hideous trick! The boots were not empty, he could see a man's ankles, the bottoms
of a town's trousers; but the ankles and the trousers seemed utterly insignificant--on the
sole of the right boot was a diamond-shaped, gray-coloured, paper seal! His own insignia--the
insignia of the Gray Seal!

For an instant it might have been, he stood there rigidly, realising in a sort of ghastly,
subconscious way that the man under the bed made no movement, made no attempt to evade discovery,
made no sound; and then Jimmie Dale stooped quickly, and raised one of the other's feet a few
inches from the floor. It fell back--a dead weight.

Jimmie Dale's jaws were hard clamped. There was devil's work here--some of the Magpie's, possibly.
Every faculty alert now, Jimmie Dale was quietly lifting aside the small iron bed. The Magpie
was no fool! By underworld and police alike it would be accepted without questions that the
Gray Seal had held a day of reckoning in store for the Magpie. Had the Magpie traded on that--to
get rid of some one who was in his way, this out-stretched, inert thing on the floor, and lay
it to the door of the Gray Seal? It was clever, hellish in its cunning. And it would appear
plausible enough. The Gray Seal had come here, say, searching for the Magpie, and in the darkness
had struck another down! Yes, the Magpie could get away with that. It would stand to reason
that the Magpie would not lure a victim to his own den, and--

A low cry was on Jimmie Dale's lips. The bed was moved out now, and he was stooping over a
man whose head was gruesomely battered above the right temple and back across the skull. The
flashlight wavered in his hand, as he held it focussed on the other's face. It was the Magpie--dead.

CHAPTER VII

THE BOND ROBBERY

It seemed to Jimmie Dale that, in the darkness, the room was full of unseen devils laughing
and jeering derisively at him. It seemed that reality did not exist; that only unreality prevailed.
The Magpie--dead! It seemed for the moment that he had utterly lost his grip upon himself;
that mentally he was being tossed helplessly about, the sport of fate. The Magpie--dead! It
meant--what did it mean? He must think now, and think quickly. It meant, first of all, that
any hope for the Tocsin which he had built upon the Magpie was shattered, gone forever. And
it meant, that gray seal on the sole of the dead man's boot, that the murder had been committed
with even greater cunning and finesse, and an even greater security for the murderer, than
he had attributed to the Magpie a moment since, when he had thought the Magpie the instigator,
and not the victim, of the crime.

He was examining the wound, searching for the weapon--it must have been a blunt instrument
of some sort--with which the blow, or blows, had been struck. There was nothing. The Magpie
lay there--dead. That was all.

Mechanically Jimmie Dale replaced the bed in its original position over the murdered man, and
stood staring down again at the gray seal on the Magpie's boot. It was not why the Magpie had
been murdered, it was who had murdered him! Once, long, long ago, almost at the outset of the
Gray Seal's career, a spurious gray seal had been used before. But this was a vastly different,
and far more significant matter. Then it had been an attempt to foist the identity of the Gray
Seal upon a poor, miserable devil in order to secure a reward--here it was a crime, murder,
coolly, callously laid to the Gray Seal, that the guilty man might escape without a breath
of suspicion. Just another crime credited to the Gray Seal! No one would dispute it; no one
would question it; no one would dream that it had been done by any one other than the Gray
Seal. There was a brutal possibility about the ingenuity of the man who had struck the blow.
It was the Magpie who had put his finger upon Larry the Bat as the Gray Seal; it was the Magpie
who had tried to accomplish the Gray Seal's death. Would it, then, occasion even surprise that
the Magpie should be found murdered in his own den at the hands of the Gray Seal? It was even
his own argument, the very reason that had led him to assume the role of Larry the Bat, and
had brought him here to the Magpie's to-night!

Jimmie Dale bent down for a closer inspection of the diamond-shaped gray seal on the boot's
sole. It was not one of his own; but it was so similar that it would unquestionably pass muster.
The red crept to Jimmie Dale's cheeks and burned there, as a sudden, merciless anger swept
upon him. Who was the man who had done this, who sheltered himself from murder behind the Gray
Seal!

He laughed low and bitterly. Only another crime attributed to the Gray Seal! It would not smirch
the Gray Seal any--the Gray Seal had been accused of worse than this! But the man who had dared
to place that gray seal there would answer for it!

He was still laughing in that low, bitter way, as he knelt now, and took out his pocketknife.
The gray seal, at least, would not be found--he was lucky there--he had only to scrape it off,
and--No--wait! Would it not be better to leave it there? It would throw the murderer off his
guard if he believed that his plan had worked; and it could make little difference to the Gray
Seal's record to be held guilty of another murder--temporarily. Temporarily! Yes, that was
it! Here was one crime of which the Gray Seal would be vindicated, and the guilty man be--

"Jimmie!"

It seemed to quiver, low-breathed, through the darkness--his name. His name! Was he bereft
of all his senses! His name! Here in this horrible murder hole! Was he indeed mad with his
imaginings, with these voices that had been whispering, and laughing, and jeering at him out
of the blackness! And, absurdly, it had seemed this time that it was the Tocsin's voice!

"Jimmie--quick! On the floor under the window!"

He whirled like a flash. Mistake! Imaginings! No! It was the Tocsin! It was her voice! The
gleam of his flashlight cut the black, and, leaping across the room, played upon the small,
narrow, oblong window--it was from there the voice had come. But it was only black and empty
there. And around the room his flashlight swept, and it was black and empty there, too--except
for a square, white object upon the floor below the window. She was gone.

And it was like a half sob that came from Jimmie Dale's lips.

"Gone!" he whispered miserably. "Gone!"

Why had she gone like that? She
has led them to leave in the lurch and Ferdinand to take the old Dahlberg, but yet they are not
married, and it should not be it. Now I'm going to Borg, and there I met Anna. I want to talk
to her, I want the pastor people, the groom already alienated make. I bring them here overnight,
then should not the old Dahlberg have more joy in it. "

And so it happened. Gösta drove alone to Borg, without one of the lively young lady, but passed
from the hot wishes of those left behind. And Sintram, who rejoiced that the old Dahlberg should
be mentioned, decided to stay at Berga, Göstas to return to the faithless to be seen. In a fit
of benevolence, he even wrapped it in his green scarf Travel - A gift from Mademoiselle Ulrika
herself.

Mrs. Uggla came with three red-bound books out on the stairs.

"Take that," she said to Gosta, who was sitting in the carriage, "and
take the keep, if you should have no luck.

It is Corinne, Madame de Staël Corinne, I would not like, that the
books would come under the hammer.

"

"I'm always happy!"

"Oh, Gosta, Gosta," she said, stroking his hand over his bare head, "you Strongest and weakest
among the people!

How long will you remember that the happiness of us poor people in your hand is! "

Again Gösta flew over the public roads, pulled by the black Don Juan, followed of the white
Tancred, and the awareness of the upcoming adventure filled his soul
with jubilation.

He felt like a young conqueror, the spirit was upon him.

His path led him to the parsonage over to Svartsjö.

He drove up there and asked him if he does not go to the ball Stjarnhok Anna should. Yes, he should.
A beautiful, headstrong girl went to him in the sled.

Who would not like to run with the black Don Juan!

At first the boy in silence, but then began the conversation, defiant
as only the Arrogance they searched for.

"Did you hear, Gosta what the pastor is now read from the pulpit?"

Did he say that you were the prettiest girl between the Löfsee and the clear-Eleven? "

"You're stupid, Gosta. The people know well ohnedem.

No, he has me and the old Dahlberg called out. "

"God knows, had I known, I would not have invited you, you to me in
the slide set! Then you can get!

Leave "

And answered the haughty heiress, "I would also have happened without Gosta Berling to Borg."

"It's
really bad about you, Anna," said Gosta thoughtfully, "that you no
father nor mother have.

Now you are as you are, and it should not take with you as closely. "

"It is far more pity that did not you said before, then I would have
another .

Can drive "

"The pastor thinks like I do, that you needest a man, you replace
the same time the father can, or she would probably not fixed up with
an old Kracke.

"

"The pastor has nothing to do with it."

"Good God, you yourself have you chosen the handsome man?"

"He takes me at least not for the money."

"No, only look at the old blue eyes and red cheeks, and fools are
they that they do this."

"Oh, Gosta, you should be ashamed of yourself!"

"But remember that you now no longer allowed to play with the young men. With dance and Songwriter
game over. You belong in the lounge area - or perhaps you prefer a Rabouge game to play with the
old Dahl? "

Then they sat there in silence until they hinanfuhren the steep hill at Borg.

"I thank you for the kind of transport.

It should not happen once again, that I with Gosta Berling go! "

"Thank you very much! I know more than one who has repented, having driven with you to the party.
"

A little bit milder than usual, the defiant beauty came into the ballroom and looked over the assembled
Guests.

First of all, she saw the small, bald Dahlberg next to the tall, slim, fair-haired Gosta Berling.
She had the greatest desire, they both hinauszujagen the door.

Her fiance came to ask her to dance, but she received him with a
mocking wonder.

"Want to dance?

Since when do you tend to dance? "

And the young girl came to congratulate her.

"Adjusts to you but not children! You think it impossible that in the old Dahlberg can fall
in love? But he is rich, and I'm rich, so we fit together. "

The old ladies came up to her, she pressed the white hand and spoke
of the highest Happiness of life.

"Congratulates the pastor," she replied, "the more pleased about it than I do."

But there was Gosta Berling, the merry gentleman, greeted with jubilation whether its fresh laughter
and scattered his fine words, the gold dust over the gray monotony
of life.

Never before had she seen such as in the evening. He was not an outcast, not a reprobate, no homeless
clown, no, he was a king among men, a born king.

He and the other young men conspired against them. You should have leisure, it consider how badly
they did it, that she with her beautiful face and her big Wealth
had thrown away an old man.

And they let her sit through ten dances.

Their blood was boiling with anger.

As the eleventh dancing began, there came a man, the least of the
poor, one with which no one wanted to dance, and invited them.

"The beer is drunk, now comes the barm," she said.

Then they played game of forfeits. Fair-haired young women put their heads together and sentenced
her to kiss the man who was her the favorite. And they waited smiling mouth to the spectacle
of the proud beauty of the old Dahlberg would kiss.

       But she got up pride in their anger and said: "May I rather not give
the person a slap, which I may suffer the least?

"

A moment later burned Göstas cheek under her firm hand. He blushed, grabbed held her hand,
she found a second and whispered: "Wait half an hour in the red Hall down on me! "

His blue eyes shone down upon them and surrounded them with magical gangs. She felt that they
had to obey.

Down there, they received him with pride and harsh words.

"What is it to Gosta Berling, with whom I marry?"

He had no kind words on the tongue, and it seemed to him not advisable
to talk about right of Ferdinand.

"I do not think that the punishment up to ten dances can sit on, was
too great.

But you want the freedom with impunity oaths and promises broken.

Would a better man than I put into the hands of the criminal court, he would handle it harder may.
"

"What have I done to you and all that you can not leave me in peace? Only the Money because of
her following me.

I will throw in Löfsee, may fish up there because of who Wants. "

She buried her face in her hands and wept with rage.

As was touched the heart of the poet. He was ashamed of his hardness. His voice was gentle.

"Oh,
baby, child, forgive me! Forgive the poor Gosta Berling! No one returns to it, what such a scoundrel
says or does, you know.

No one weeps over his anger, you might as well weep for the bite of a mosquito. It was madness -
but I wanted to prevent it, that our most beautiful and richest girl
with the old man married.

And now I have achieved nothing, to grieve as you. "

He sat down beside her on the sofa. Quietly, he put his arm around her waist to her with tender to
support care and erect. They escaped him not.

She clung to him, wrapped her arms around his neck and wept, her beautiful head on his shoulder
leaning.

Ah, Poet, you strengths and weaknesses of the people! Not on your neck, this should white arms
rest!

"If I had known this, I would have never taken the old man tonight only I have met you, nobody is
like you! "

Between pale lips but urged Gösta out a word: "Ferdinand"

She took him to silence with a kiss.

"He is nothing! No one except you is something. I will be faithful to you! "

"I'm Gosta Berling," he said darkly, "with me you can not marry you."

"I love you, you, the first among all men! You need not do anything to be. You are a born king.
"

As the blood flowed to the poet.

She was beautiful and charming in their love. He closed her in his arms.

"If you want to be mean, you can not stay at the vicarage. Let me ask you this Ekeby night
after driving there I'll know you have to defend until we wedding .

Can hold "

* * * * *

It was an exhilarating ride that night.

They bent the law of love, and left be seduced by Don Juan. It was as if the crunch of snow under
the sledge runners the action of the deceived is. What they turned
out?

She hung on his neck, and he bent over her and whispered in her ear: "Can a bliss with stolen Happiness
compare? "

       

The line-up - what did it mean? They had love. And the anger of the people? Gösta Berling believed
in fate.

Fate had conquered it can against fate no quarrel.

Had the star been wedding lights that lit to her wedding were Don
Juan's bells church bells would have been the people with their wedding
Dahlberg called the old together - they still would have to flee with
Gosta Berling.

So powerful is the fate! - - -

They were happy and got over safely at the parsonage to Munkerud. They had travel a half mile to
Berga and a second-half mile to Ekeby. The road led at the forest edge along the right of
them were dark mountains, left a long white valley.

Then came Tancred approach overthrown. He ran as if he were lying lengthwise on the ground. Howling
with fear He jumped into the sleigh and crept to Anna's feet.

Don Juan put on with a jerk and then jumped at a gallop.

"Wolves," said Gosta Berling.

They saw a long gray line that moved along the edge of the forest. There were at least a dozen.

Anna
is not frightened. The day had been rich in adventures, and promised the night, he is not inferior.
That was life! dahinzusausen so the shimmering expanse of snow, the wild animals and humans
defying.

Gösta uttered a curse, leaned forward and said Don Juan a sharp blow
with the whip.

"Are you afraid?" He asked. "That is a short cut a hit and will get
back there, where the road makes a bend to obtain.

"

Don Juan jumped up and ran a race with the wild animals of the forest,
and Tancred cried anger and fear.

They reached the curvature of the road at the same time with the
wolves, and Gösta drove the first back with the whip.

"Oh, Don Juan, my boy, how easily could escape are twelve wolves, if you are human not to carry
would have! "

They tied the green rice husks back firmly on the slide. The Wolves were in front of anxious and
for a time kept at a distance.

When they had overcome their fear, jumped one of them with long tongue
hanging out and with an open mouth on the slide to.

Then took Gösta Corinne Madame de Stael and threw it into his mouth.

Again she had a little rest while the animals tore their prey, and again they felt the jolts,
when the wolves tearing at the green rice husks, and the short, hurried Breath of the wild animals
pressed to her ear. They knew that, before any human Berga Apartment passed by, but it appeared
Gösta far worse than death, see where the eye should be that he had
cheated.

       He also saw that the horse would tire, and what should Then only
they made?

Then was seen the Berga house on the edge. In the windows were burning candles. Gösta knew well,
who the were.

But now the wolves fled, afraid of the proximity of people and Gösta
drove past Berga.

He came but still no more than up to the point where the road again in the forest loses, because
he saw a dark group ahead of them - the wolves were waiting for him.

"Let us turn back to the parsonage, we can not exactly say that we
have a short drive have made in the starlight.

This is now, nor good. "

They turned back, but the next moment the carriage was surrounded
by wolves.

Gray figures glided past them, the white teeth gleamed in the wide-open throat, sparkling eyes
lit up. They howled with hunger and thirst for blood. The gleaming teeth were ready to cut into
the soft flesh of men.

The Wolves jumped on Don Juan in the Height and hung themselves in the dishes. Anna thought
about whether her with the beasts Skin and hair eat or whether they would have probably left some
of them, and that probably people the next morning gnawed bones in the trampled, bloody snow
related would.

"Now it is our life," she said, bending down and Tancred grabbed by
the neck.

"Leave that, it's no use! Not the dog because the wolves
are out overnight. "

This one went to the Berga Gösta court, but
the wolves followed him up the stairs. He had to defend her with the
whip.

"Anna," he said as he stopped at the stairs, "God would not.
Make now a good face to do so if you're the girl for whom I hold you,
do you hear? "

Inside, they heard the bell ring and came out tight.

"He
added," they cried. "He has it! Gosta Berling to live! "And the guests
from tumbling a hug to the other.

There were not asked many questions.
The night was far advanced, the travelers were overwhelmed by their
dangerous journey and needed rest. It was enough so, that Anna was
there.

Everything was good. Only Corinna and the green rice bowl,
Miss Ulrika's precious gift, were destroyed.

* * * * *

The whole
house was asleep. Gosta Berling stood up, dressed, and slipped out.
Unnoticed Don Juan he pulled out of the stable, harnessed him to the
sled and was about to be done. Since Anna Stjarnhok came out of the
house.

"I heard you go away," she said. "Then I stood up. I'm ready
to go with you. "

He approached her and took her hand.

"Do you understand
it not to? It can not be! God does not want it! Listen to me and try
to to understand me! I was here this afternoon and saw how they complained
about your infidelity. Then I went to Borg to up due to Ferdinand.
But I'm always miserable Wicht been and will never be otherwise. I
betrayed him and held up for me. Here's an old woman who believes
that once again can make a man out of me. have at their I acted without
honor. And another poor old lady wants to freeze and starve here,
only between friends may die, but I was about to let her bring home
the evil Sintram. You were beautiful, and the sin was sweet. Gosta
Berling's so easy to lure.

"Oh, what a miserable wretch I am for
that! I know how much their home in there love, and yet I was about
to reveal the looting. I forgot all about your sake. You were so adorable
in your love. But now, Anna, now that I witnessed their joy I was,
I do not keep up. Oh, you mean sweetheart! The up there playing with
our Will. Now it is time that we bow to his chastening hand. Tell
me that you want to take your burden from now on you! All rely on
you in there. Say, that you stay with them and they want to be a support,
a help! If you love me, if you want to make my bitter sorrow, promise
me this! My beloved is your heart is so big that it overcome themselves
and thereby can smile? "

She accepted with enthusiasm the requirement
of renunciation.

"I want to do as you want - and sacrifice myself
to smile."

She smiled wistfully.

"As long as I love you, I will
love in there."

"Now I know what a girl you are. It's hard to leave
you. "

"Farewell, Gosta! Go with God! My love to you not to sin.
"

She turned away to go inside. He gave her an escort.

"Will you
forget me soon?"

"Ride now, Gosta. We are only human. "

He jumped
into the sled, but since she returned.

"Do not you to the wolves?"

"Of
course I think about. But their benefits have done. With me they have
this night to create anything. "

Once again he stretched his arms
towards her, Don Juan, but became impatient and moved on. He did not
attack the reins. He sat leaning back over and looked back. Then he
leaned over the edge of the slide and sobbed like a desperate man.

"I'm
obsessed with the happiness and it hit me. So I thought it was not
fixed? "

Oh, Gosta Berling! You are the strongest and weakest among
the people!

= La = Cachucha

War horse, war horse! You are old, now
grazing in the fields. Do you remember your youth?

Do you remember
the day of battle, brave horse? You progress test blast, but you wore
wings your mane fluttered over you like waving gluten, blood and foam
covered your black Flanks. In gold-trimmed bridle you leapt then,
the field thundered beneath your hooves. You trembled with delight,
thou brave steed. Oh, how beautiful you were!

* * * * *

About the
Cavalier wing is gray twilight. In the large rooms are painted in
red Boxes of the Cavaliers on the walls, and their Sunday clothes
hanging in the corner. Appearances from the chimney falling on the
whitewashed walls and the yellow-checkered curtains, the Hide in the
alcove wall. The dashing wing is no royal chamber, not a harem.

But
Liliencronas violin sounds there. He plays Cachucha = la = in the
twilight.

Again and again he plays it.

Cuts the strings, the bow
shattered! Why he plays that damn dance? Why He plays it straight
now that Örneclou the cadet, in bed, the most violent of gout pain
plagued so that he can not move? No, he snatches the violin, throw
them against the wall if he does not want to stop!

= La = Cachucha
is that for us, Maestro? Can the wavering on the boards of Kavalier
wing between the narrow, blackened by smoke and dirt-covered walls,
under this low Roof to dance? Woe unto you as you play!

= La = Cachucha
to the Cavaliers for us? Outside, the howling snow storm. Do you want
the Snowflakes teach them to dance to the beat? Do you play the light-footed
children of the Snow King to dance to? 

Women's bodies that tremble
under the pulse of the hot blood, small sooty hands the pot aside
and resort to the castanets, bare feet under hochgeschürzten Skirts,
a courtyard with marble tiles, Gypsies, cowering with bagpipe and
tambourine on the ground, Moorish archways, moonlight and black eyes,
do you have that, Maestro? Otherwise, let your Arch rest!

The pensioners
their wet clothes to dry by the fire. He was pulling out the drawer
of a bureau now--and now his hands were searching swiftly under the mattress of the bed. It
was necessary to secure the bonds. Barring that little matter of the numbers, they were as
good as cash--and the matter of numbers would not trouble Virat. He knew Virat, and he had
known Virat very well--but not so well by far as he knew him now! Virat was as suave and polished
a gentleman crook as the country possessed. Viral was the sort of man who, after the uproar
had died down, would have the nerve and address to take up his residence in some little out-of-the-way
place, and either dispose of as many of the bonds at a time as he dared to those he would cultivate
as friends, or even have the audacity to secure a loan on a modest number of them from the
local bank itself, whose conversance with the missing numbers might be expected to be of the
haziest description. Also Virat would be careful to see that his offerings were not made at
such dates as to have the interest coupons cause him any inconvenience by falling due within
twenty-four hours! It would be quite simple--for Virate! In six months, in as many places,
with the length and breadth of the country to choose from, Virat could quite readily dispose
of the lot; not quite at the issue price perhaps if he secured loans, but still at a figure
that would be very profitable--for Virat! Or, as Meighan had suggested, with the aid of a confederate
of the right sort, the change of a figure--ah! Jimmie Dale; flat upon the floor, his hand stretched
in under the washstand, drew out a short, round, heavy object. He examined this attentively
for a second; and then, his face hardening, he slipped it into his coat pocket.

He resumed his musings, and resumed his search through the room. Virat was clever enough to
find means of disposing of the bonds in some fashion or other, and too clever to have ever
committed murder for them otherwise--there was no doubt of that. And, after all, what difference
did it make whatever Virat's method might be! It was extraneous, immaterial. They also let the evil servants of Fors
distribute and introduced a Christian government. Now it haunts no longer there.

       

* * * * *

It is said that before Gosta Berling reached the court, a stranger had arrived there and had submitted
a letter to the major's wife. No one knew the messenger, but the letter was carried into and
placed next to the patient on the table.

Immediately afterwards came an unexpected Improvement is apparent, the fever subsided, the
pain decreased, and she felt well enough to read the letter.

The old man wanted only too happy to believe that this improvement the influence of the dark forces
was due. Sintram and his friends could have advantage of it if the major's wife read this letter.

It
was written with blood on black paper document.

The pensioners would it probably have recognized: it was written in the last Christmas night in the
forge to Ekeby been.

And the major's wife was there now and read that they, seeing she was a witch and cavalier souls
sent to hell, had condemned, that I may lose Ekeby. This and similar follies las them. She looked
at the date and signatures, and found at Göstas with the following
remark: "For since the major's wife, my weakness has taken advantage
of me by honest work to hold and to keep me as a minor at Ekeby praise
since they led me to Ebba Dohna murderer made by told her that I am
a deposed priest, I'll sign.

"

The major's wife slowly folded up the paper and put it in the envelope, then it was motionless,
thinking about what she had just learned. She realized with bitter Pain, that this was the opinion
of the people of her. A witch and a sorceress, she was for all those
to whom it rightly done, which they had been working and bread.

This was her reward; this would be their reputation. An adulteress she could trust nothing else.

But
what she set out from this ignorant? They had been away from her yet. But this poor Cavaliers,
who had lived at their mercy and they just knew they also believed it or did it as if they believed
it to have a pretext under which they Ekeby could seize. Her thoughts quickly raced through
her brain fever-hot, wild Anger, lust for revenge burning in her eyes. She left the pastor's daughter
from Broby, the Countess Elisabeth in her wake, a messenger to the estate manager and Högfors
Inspector send. She wanted to make her will.

Again she lay there and pondered.

Her eyebrows drew together, her face contorted weird pain.

You are very ill, Mrs. Ebba, "the countess said softly.

"That I'm sicker than ever before."

There once was a pause, but the major's wife said in a hard, sharp
voice: "It's strange to think that even Countess Elizabeth, who is
loved by all, an adulteress is.

"

The young countess shuddered.

"Yes, but not in deeds, but in thought and desires, and that makes no difference."

"I know, Mrs. Major's wife."

"And yet you are now become happy. You can use the one you love, have no sin; the black ghost will
not stand between you when you met each other now. Your you can also
belong to the world.

You can walk through life side by side. "
"Oh, Madam Baroness."

"How can you dare to stay with him? Called"
the old woman with increasing vehemence. "Repent! Good time doing
penance! Journey home to your father and your mother, before they
come and curse. Do you dare to call Gosta Berling your husband? Go
to him! I will Ekeby give him, I will give him power and glory - you
dare to share that with him? Dare you accept it, happiness and honor?
I ventured. Do you remember how it happened to me? Remember you up
to the Christmas feast at Ekeby? Do you remember the prison in Munkerud?
"

"Oh, Mrs. Major's wife, sinner, here we go side by side with no
luck. I go along here and ensure that the happiness is not indigenous
to our stove is. "Listen! Say, youse don't have ter wait
long fer de curtain, ter go up on de act. Don't youse make a sound!"

The doorknob turned. Jimmie Dale whipped his flashlight into his pocket--and in a flash, as
a man entered, switched on the light, and slammed shut the door. A dapper individual, wearing
tortoise-rimmed glasses, with black moustache and goatee, was staring into the muzzle of Jimmie
Dale's automatic.

"Hello, Frenchy!" observed Larry the Bat suavely. "Feelin' faint?"

The man's face had gone a chalky white. He looked wildly around him, as though seeking some
avenue of escape.

"Mon Dieu!" he whispered. "Larree ze Bat! It is ze Gray Seal! It is--"

"Aw, cut out dat parlay-voo dope!" Larry the Bat broke in curtly. "Youse don't need ter pull
dat stuff wid me, Virat. Talk New York, see?"

Virat moistened his lips with the tip of his tongue.

"What do you want here?" he asked huskily.

"Oh, nothin' much," said Larry the Bat airily. "I thought mabbe youse might figure dere was
some of dem bonds comin' ter me."

"Bonds! I don't know anything about any bonds," said Virat, in a low voice. "I don't know what
you are talking about.'

"You don't--eh?" inquired Larry the Bat ominously. "Well den, I'll help ter put youse wise.
But mabbe I'd better get yer gun first, eh?" As he had done to Meighan, he removed a revolver
from Virat's pocket. "T'anks!" he said. He pushed Virat with his revolver muzzle toward the
table, and forced the other into a chair. He sat down opposite Virat, and smiled unpleasantly.
"Now den, come across! Youse croaked de Magpie ter-night!"

"You're dippy!" sneered Virat. "I haven't seen the Magpie in a month."

"An' dat's what youse did it wid." Larry the Bat, as though he had not heard the other's denial,
reached into his pocket, and shoved a small, murderous, bloodstained blackjack, the leather-covered
piece of lead pipe that he had found beneath the washstand, suddenly across the table under
Virat's eyes.

With a sharp cry, staring, Virat shrank back.

"Sure! Now youse're talkin'!" approved Larry the Bat complacently. "But dat ain't all. Say,
youse have got a gall! Youse thought youse'd plant me, did youse, wid dat gray seal on de Magpie's
boot!" Jimmie Dale's voice was deadly cold again. "Well, what about dat?"

"What do you want?" mumbled Virat.

Jimmie Dale's smile was not inviting.

"I told youse once, didn't I? What do youse suppose I want! If I got ter fall fer it, I want
some of dem bonds--dat's what I want!"

A look of relief spread over Virat's face.

"All right," he said hurriedly. "I--that's--that's fair. I--I'll get them for you." He started
up from his chair, his eyes travelling instinctively toward the door.

"Youse sit down!" invited Larry the Bat coldly.

"But--but you said--I--I was going to get them," faltered Virat.

"Sure!" said Larry the Bat. "Dat's de idea! An', say, I'm in a hurry. Dey ain't over dere,
Frenchy--try nearer home!"

Virat's hands trembled as he unbuttoned his vest. He reached around under the back of his vest,
drew out a flat package, and laid it on the table. He began to untie the cord.

"Wait a minute!" said Larry the Bat pleasantly. "I ain't in so much of a hurry now dat I got
me lamps on 'em! Youse can count 'em out after--half for youse, an' half fer me. Tell us how
youse fixed de lay."

And then, for the first time, Virat laughed, though still a little nervously.

"Yes, that's square," he agreed eagerly. "I--I was afraid you were going to pinch them all.
I'll tell you. It was easy. I piped the Magpie off to a chap named Kenleigh having the bonds
up there in his rooms in an apartment house. I couldn't crack Kenleigh's safe myself, but it
was nuts for the Magpie--see? He cracked the safe. I was with him, and I copped that near-diamond
pin of his, and left it there so there wouldn't be any guessing as to who pulled off the job,
and then we beat it back to his place to divide--and I beaned him. I wasn't looking into any
gun then, and handing over fifty thousand--and besides, with the Magpie out of the way, I had
some alibi." Virat laughed shortly. "That's where you come in. Everybody knew you had it in
for him. All I had to do was--well, what you said I did. If you hadn't tumbled to it, and I'm
damned if I can see how you did, there wasn't anything to it at all. It was open and shut that
the Magpie pinched the swag, and that you croaked him and beat it with the bonds."

"Say," said Larry the Bat admiringly, "youse're some slick gazabo, youse are! But how did youse
know dat guy Kenleigh had de goods?"

"That's none of your business, is it?" replied Virat, a little defiantly. "You're getting yours
now."

Larry the Bat appeared to ponder the other's words, a curious smile on his lips.

"Well, mabbe it ain't," he admitted. "Let it go anyway, an' split the swag. Count 'em out!"

Virat picked up the package again, and began to untie it--and again Jimmie Dale's hand slipped
into his pocket. And then, quick as the winking of an eye, as Virat's hands came together over
a knot, Jimmie Dale leaned across the table, there was a click, and the steel were locked on
the other's wrists.

There was a scream of fury, an oath from Virat.

"Dat's yer cue, Meighan," called Larry the Bat calmly. "Come out an' take a look at him!"

A ghastly pallor spreading over his face, staring like a demented man, as Meighan, rising from
behind the lounging chair, advanced toward the table, Virat huddled back in his seat.

"Know him?" inquired Larry the Bat.

The detective bent sharply forward.

"My god!" he exclaimed. "It's--no, it can't--"

"Mabbe," murmured Larry the Bat, "youse'd know him better when he ain't dolled up." He swept
the glasses from Virat's nose, and wrenched away the black moustache and goatee.

"Kenleigh!" gasped Meighan.

"Mabbe," said Larry the Bat, with a twisted grin, "dere's somethin' he may have fergotten ter
wise youse up on, but he didn't mean ter hide nothin' in his confession--did youse, Frenchy?
An' mabbe dere's one or two other things in de years he's been playin' Kenleigh dat he'll tell
youse about, if youse ask him--nice and pleasant-like!"

Larry the Bat edged around the table, and, covering Meighan with his revolver, backed to the door.

"Well, so long, Meighan!" he said softly, from the threshold. "T'ink of me when dey pins de
medal on yer breast fer dis!"

And then Jimmie Dale laid Meighan's revolver down on the floor of the room, and locked the
door on the outside with a pick-lock, and went down the stairs.

CHAPTER IX

'WARE THE WOLF

Jimmie Dale's fingers, in the darkness, were deftly tying around his body the leather girdle
with its finely-tempered, compact kit of burglar's tools. It was strange, this note of hers
to-night--strange, even, where all the notes that she had ever written had been strange! It
had been left half an hour ago at the door of the St. James Club--and he had hastened here
to the Sanctuary. It was curiously strange! Three nights ago, he had seen Frenchy Virat safely
in the hands of the police, and Frenchy Virat was still safely in police custody--but he, Jimmie
Dale, was not yet done with Frenchy Virat, it seemed! The note had made that quite clear. There
was still the Wolf; and it was the Wolf that filled this anxious, hurried word from her to-night.

The Wolf! He knew the Wolf well--as Larry the Bat in the old days he had even known the other
personally as Smarlinghue of to-day he had progressed that far into the inner ring of the underworld
again as to be on nodding terms with the Wolf. The man was a power in the underworld--and a
devil in human guise. In a career extending back over many years, a career in which no single
crime in the decalogue had been slighted, the Wolf had successfully managed to evade the clutches
of the law until his name had become a synonym for craft and cunning in the Bad Lands, and
the man himself the object of the vicious hero-worship of that sordid world where murder cradled
and foul things lived. The police had marked the man, marked him a score of times; in their
records a hundred unsolved crimes pointed to the Wolf--but they had never "got" him--always
the thread of evidence that seemed to lead to that queer house near Chatham Square was broken
on the way--and the Wolf, with steadily increasing prestige and authority in gangland, laughed
in the faces of the police, and here and there a plain-clothes man, over-zealous perhaps, died.

That was the Wolf--but that was not all! Jimmie Dale's face hardened into grim lines, as he
lifted out from under the baseboard "Smarlinghue's" frayed and seedy coat, and put it on. Between
the Wolf and the Gray Seal there was now a personal feud. Above the reek of those whisperings
in the underworld, above that muttered slogan, "death to the Gray Seal," that men flung at
each other from the twisted corners of their mouths, the Wolf had snarled, and the underworld
had listened, and the underworld was waiting now--the Wolf had pledged himself to rid the Bad
Lands of the terror that had crept upon it. He had sworn, and staked his reputation on his
pledge, to "get" Larry the Bat, alias the Gray Seal--and in the eyes of the underworld, as
the underworld sighed with relief, it was already accomplished, for the Wolf had never failed.

Jimmie Dale stooped down, felt in under the baseboard again, and took out a little make-up
box. The Wolf's incentive was not one of philanthropy toward his fellow denizens of crimeland,
whose ranks had been thinned by those who, thanks to the Gray Seal, had gone "up the river,"
some of them, many of them, to that room in Sing Sing's death-house from which none ever returned
alive; nor was it, to give the Wolf his due, through a personal fear that his own career might
end, as those others' had, at the hands of the Gray Seal; nor, again, was it through any tardy,
eleventh-hour conversion, any belated edging toward the way of grace that found expression
in a desire to array himself on the side of those representing the forces of law and order.
It was none of these things that actuated the Wolf--it was Frenchy Virat, alias one Kenleigh,
who was awaiting trial in the Tombs. Frenchy Virat was the Wolf's bosom friend!

The wheezy, air-choked gas-jet spluttered into a blue flame, as Jimmie Dale lighted it. It
disclosed, in shadow, the battered easel, the dirty canvases, some finished, some but tentative
daubs, that banked the wall in disorder opposite the small French window, whose shade was closely
drawn; it crept dimly into the far corner of the room and disclosed the cheap cot, unmade,
the blanket upon it rumpled in negligent untidiness; it fell full, such as its fulness was,
upon the rickety table that was littered with unwashed dishes and sticky paint tubes, and,
at one end of the table, on an evening newspaper, and, beside the newspaper, the Tocsin's note
and a newspaper clipping.

Jimmie Dale sat down at the table, brushed the dishes and paint tubes together into a heap,
and propped up against them a cracked and streaked mirror. 

But then, gradually one begins to understand what a bear it is and why Gösta could not shoot
him. It's scary to talk about it, horrible to think it; but it is no ordinary bear. No one can think
of to kill him if he does not has a silver bullet in the gun. A bullet made of silver and Glockenerz,
on a Thursday evening at new moon cast in the church tower, without priest or clerk or any person like
this know that would have killed him, but such a ball is not easy to obtain.

       * * * * *

On Ekeby lives a man who more than anyone else has to fret about these things. That is, as you
can well imagine, Anders fox, the bear hunters. He loses the joy of eating, he loses sleep
from his resentment at having the great bear in the mountains Gurlita can not kill. Finally,
he also, that the bear with a silver ball can be killed.

The gruff Major Fox was not a handsome man He had a clumsy, awkward Body and a broad, red face, flabby
cheeks and a multiple double chin. Stiff as bristles sat the little black mustache on his thick lips,
and the black Was rigid and resistant hair from the head. To this end he was a man of few words,
but mighty Appetite. He was not among those who greeted the women with a sunny smile, even
sent giving them no gentle gaze. He believed that he could never find a woman at the He was
pleased, and all that had to do with love and enthusiasm, it was far. If So he walked in the
moonlight, waiting, it must not be supposed that he, the good woman Luna wanted to make confidants
in his heart. No, he thought of only the silver bullet that had to
be poured at the new moon.

And then a Thursday night when the moon is just two fingers wide and a few Hours after the sun goes
down, stays above the horizon, because Major moves Fuchs Ekeby off without anything to say about
what he wants to do.

He has fire and steel spherical shape in the game bag and the rifle on his back and walks towards
the church Broer, to see what will the happiness of an honest man.

The church is located on the eastern shore of the narrow strait between the upper and lower Löfsee,
and Major fox must go over the bridge to get there. So he goes to the Bridge to watch over
in deep thoughts and with no after the Broby hills, where the Homes
stand out sharply from the clear night sky, or after Gurlita Rock,
whose round Peak rises in the evening light.

He only sees the floor and pondered how he of Church key is to get hold of, without noticing anyone.

When
he comes down to the bridge, he heard someone screaming so desperate
that he is forced to raising his eyes from the ground.

At that time, Faber, the little German, organist in Broby. He was a small, thin Fellow, low in the
former and the other way.

Küster, Jan Larsen, a capable Bauer, however, poor because the priest had Broby him to his father's
legacy to all five hundred Reichstaler cheated.

The clerk wanted to like the sister of the organist of the small fine maiden Faber, To marry
but the organist did not want to give him, so the two were not good Friends. That evening
the sexton met the organist at the bottom of the bridge and drove to release it. He grabs him
by the chest and holds it with a stiff arm on the railing of the Bridge, while he swears solemnly
that he will throw him into the water when he Small delicate maiden
will not get.

But the little German will not be shown He wriggles and screams says,
but continues in a no, although it deep in the black rush out of the
groove of open water between ice edge looks white.

"No, no," he shouts, "No, no!"

It is not to know whether the clerk in his anger did not last however, even in the cold black
water would have hineinplumpsen, if not just over the bridge, Major Fox would come. Now the clerk
is afraid he is Faber again on the bridge and runs away as fast as he can.

The small Faber is now in the Major's neck and thanked him for his life, but the major shake it
off and says there is no reason to thank. The Major was not for the German left over from the days
when he Putbus on complaints during the Pomeranian War Quarter Located had. He had never been so
close in his life because of starvation like in those days.

Faber now wants the little run up to the bailiff Scharling and because
the clerk attempted murder sue, but the Major tells him that this
is not worth while, for this country it costs nothing to kill a German,
not a red cent. And the truth of his to prove words, he offers himself,
throwing him down into the stream.

As for the little calmer Faber and invites the Major to come home
and Schmorwurst to eat and drink old beer.

The Major accompanied him, because he just happened that the one church
organist safely home key must have, and so are you going up the hill
on which the church along with the provost Broer home the clerk of
the house, and organist's located.

"Excuse me, excuse me," Faber said little as he and the Major in his House happen. "It is now not
very nice. Today we have had so much to do, My sister and I, we have slaughtered a rooster.
"

"Oh the thousand," exclaimed the Major.

And then came the little fine maiden Faber in with old beer in large earthenware jars. Now yes
everyone knows that women are not the major with gentle eyes looked at her, but the little Virgin
Faber he had to watch with some goodwill, so charmingly as she stood
in Vest and hat.

The blonde hair was smoothed forehead, the homespun dress was so delicate and so dazzling pure,
their little hands were so busy and fast, and her little face was so rosy and round, that
he could not leave it to think, that, had he seen such a cute little
woman twenty-five years, he would have made certain institutions in
order to free.

But so nice and rosy-cheeked and nimble they was, their eyes are still very tearful. And that's
what inspires him so mildly concerned about them.

While the men eat and drink, she goes into the room and off. Once she comes to her brother,
approached, makes a curtsey and said: "As my brother tells that we are the cows up in the
shed? "should"

"Twelve o'clock point on the right and eleven on the left, then they
can not" push, "said the small Faber.

"Surely that is the devil! Faber has so many cows? "Says the Major.

The thing but it hung together so that the organist had only two cows,
but he called a Elf and the other twelve, so it should sound great
when he spoke of them.

And you will learn the major, that is Faber in the process of rebuilding his barn, so that
the cows the day go outside and stand by night in the weather shed.

The little maid Faber goes in and out of the room. It occurs again approached her brother and it
makes a curtsy and say that asks the carpenter, how much to the barn.

"Miss the cow," said the organist, Miss the cow!

"

Major Fuchs finds that this is a good answer.

Sitting there like that, down to the Major, the organist asking why the eyes of his sister are
so red, and as he learns, then, that she is crying because he does
not want to allow her to deal with to marry the poor clerk, in debt
and heirless, such as that.

In all of Major Fox, more and more goes into your senses. He empties a can of beer after the
other, and eat a sausage after another without thinking about it. The small Faber is quite appalled
by such an appetite and such a thirst, but the more the Major eat and drink, the clearer his
brain to his heart is so determined. The firmer is his intent to do something for the little
maid Faber.

It was the same Major Fox, the strange man who one evening in the Lehnsmannsfrau Munkerud brawn
ways of comprehending a whole, from which they had thought that he
was the Christmas season should hold on.

He was so cheerful mood when he thought what a wonderful Schmorwurst this it was. He, he really wanted
to make sure that Faber's maiden eyes no longer cry needed.

He has during his eyes on the big key with the curly beard, on a hook on the door hung, and no
sooner has the little Faber, of the Major in the old beer decision
has to do to snore his head on the table and started, as well as Major
Fox has taken possession of the key has, after the cap engages and
hurries from there.

A minute later, he felt his way up the tower stairs. By the light of its small horn lantern He
finally gets up into the belfry where the bells of their powerful
jaws on him unlock.

Up there, he scrapes off the first with a file and wants just a little Glockenerz the spherical
shape and take the lighter from the game bag when he realizes that he is the most important
missing: it has no silver at all times. Is to force the ball to be,
it must indeed there in the tower be cast.

Everything is in order: It is Thursday evening and new moon, and no one has an idea that he is
there, and now he can not do anything. comes in the dead of night He made a curse, and with such force that
the bells resound.

A moment later he heard a faint noise down from the church and it
is thought he heard Steps on the stairs.

Yes, indeed, heavy footsteps coming up the stairs!

Major fox that stands up there and swears that the bells echo, is
a little serious.

He can not help but think about who it seems, is to come up to him when casting bullets to
help. The steps come closer and closer. The person concerned will appear entirely in the belfry
up.

The major creeps aside, all the way between the beams and rafters,
and deletes the horn lantern from.

Afraid he's just not, but the whole story would be so spoiled when someone saw him up there.
No sooner has he hid himself, as the newcomer's head by the staircase hole plugged.

The major recognized him immediately: it is the miserly priest from Broby. He, almost insane
is against greed, maintains its treasures to the strangest places
to hide.

He is now with a packet of paper money he wants to hide in the tower. Since he did not know
that somebody is see, he picks up a plank in the floor, puts the money under it and away again
immediately.

But the Major is not lazy, he picks up the same hallway. No, what a lot of money! A Bundle of paper
money to the other, and between brown leather bag full of silver money. The Major takes up as much
silver as necessary to a ball, the rest he can lie.

When he arrives back down, he has the silver bullet in the gun. He walks and thinks about to see
if he has the good fortune that night probably still exercised over
the good things, in the Thursday night yes, the strangest things happen.

First he makes a transition to the organist apartment. Whether the devil of Bear know that
Faber's cows are in a miserable shed, so good as in the open air?

Yes indeed! Does not he great thing about the black box on the wooden shed ? Come That must be the
bear!

He puts the gun to his cheek and wants losdrücken even remembers,
but back.

Bridesmaid Faber's tearful eyes appear to him in the darkness, and he remembers that he her and
will help the clerk, but he does a great effort, not even the great Gurlita bears to kill are.
He said afterwards saying that it nothing great in the world so Overcoming had cost, but since the
little maid was such a fine little person had to he do it.

He goes to the clerk's house, wakes up the clerk, pulls him half dressed and half naked out and
tells him to shoot the bears, the wooden shed umschleicht Faber.

"If you shoot the bear, so he gives you his sister," he says, "because
then you will at once a respected man is no ordinary bear, and the
best men the country would make it an honor, to have killed him.

"

And he expresses his own rifle in hand, with the ball of silver and Glockenerz loaded and poured
into a church tower on a Thursday night at new moon, but he trembles
with envy at the thought that someone other than himself the king
of the forest, the old bear from Gurlita Mountains, succumbed to.

The sexton is aimed - so, God help us, he does, as if to shoot the Great Bear, The high in the
sky and sits in a circle around the pole star turns, but not a bear Broby the walk around
the fields, and the shot goes off with a bang, which one to top up can be heard on the Gurlita
rocks.

But he now may have targeted the bear falls. So it is, if one with silver balls shoots. You
meet the bear into the heart, even if you have targeted the sky star.

From all farms and houses once the people come bring fallen and ask what there going on, for never
has slammed a shot in anger or raised more than sleeping squirrel This, and the clerk is praised
greatly, because the bear has been a real menace.

The little Faber comes out, but now is Major Fuchs badly fooled.

It says the clerk, praised and honored, and even then he has rescued
cows Faber, but the little organist neither stirred nor grateful.

He does not open its arms and welcomed him as a hero and not Schwager.

The Major frowns and stamps his feet in anger over such infamy.

He wants to talk and explain to the little stingy, narrow-minded guy, what a feat this , but
as he starts to stutter, so that it can not utter a word.

And he will always enraged at the thought that he has waived without any purpose of the honor,
the great Bear to make. It is impossible to understand him, that one who performs such an act
added, should not be worthy of winning the proudest bride.

The sexton and some young guys want to get down to pull the bear's
fur; they go to the grindstone to sharpen their knives, others go
home to bed, and the major left alone with the dead bear.

There he goes again up to the church, the church key is inserted into the lock, climbs the narrow
stairs and the steep stairs up, wakes the sleeping pigeons and passes back into the bell room.

After a while, when the bear is under the personal supervision of
Major subtracting the skin, can be found in his mouth a bunch of paper
money - five hundred dollars.

It is impossible to say how it happened then, but it's a strange bear, and as the clerk the bear
was shot, he heard the money is quite clear.

As it is known, even the little Faber, which honor indeed the clerk understands running has,
and he declares that he will be proud to call him his brother.

Friday night around Major fox back to Ekeby after the bear party in the House clerk and has taken
part in the betrothal feast in the house organist. With a heavy heart he wanders from there, no joy
he feels about the fact that the enemy has fallen, and no pride on the magnificent bearskin, which
has given him the sexton.

Perhaps some will think now, he mourn the fact that the little fine
maiden another must belong.

Oh no, that does not cause him grief. But what he goes to the heart, is that the old one-eyed
king of the forest has fallen, though he has had an opportunity,
a Ball to shoot at him.

And then he comes up to the gentleman wing, where the Cavaliers sit around the fire, and throws
without saying a word, the bearskin in the midst of them.

No one now has to believe that he somewhat tells of his adventure, until long after they managed
it the right context to elicit. He also did not reveal the hiding place of Broby pastor, and perhaps
never discovered the theft.

The Cavaliers have studied the skin.

"A magnificent bellow," Beer said Creutz. "I want to know how the boy from his Hibernation has come
out or did you shoot him, perhaps in the cave? "

He was killed in Bro.

Yes, as big as the Gurlita-bear he is not yet, "said Gosta. "A powerful animal It is admittedly been.
"

"If he had been one-eyed," says Kevenhiiller, "I would have thought you had the old even killed, so
big it is, but this has neither a wound or a scar on the one Eye, therefore it can not be.
"

Fox begins to curse and to swear his folly, but after a while lit his face so that he will
formally beautiful. Then the big bear but not by another man shot like!

"God, how good you are," he says and hands folded.

The auction on Björne

Often we had surprised us about the boy stories of the ancients. "Was it every day ball as long
as your radiant youth lasted? "we asked. "Was that one long life
Fairy tale?

At that time were all beautiful and charming young ladies? Ended for each festival so that Gosta Berling
one of them kidnapped? "

As the old shook their venerable heads and began to tell of the purr the spindle, the clatter
of the loom, from the bustle in the kitchen of the impact of the flail on the floor, and the
sound of the ax in the forest.

But it never lasted long before they relapse into the old sound. As the carriage stopped at
the steps, as the horses ran by cheerful young children of men through the dark woods as meaning
because of the whirling dance, jumped as the strings of the violin. roared with noise and cracking
of whips The wild chase on the stories at the Löfsee. In the distance we heard the roar and
the trees of the forest swayed and fell, all the powers of destruction have been released:
the fire flared up, the mountain torrent overflowed its banks, howling wolves prowled the hungry,
the farm buildings. The hooves of the horses were all achtfüßigen
quiet happiness in the dust.

Where hunting rushed over, there inflamed the hearts of men in savagery, and the women had
in pale horror flee from house and home.

And we boys sat there amazed, silent, shuddering, yet happy. "What people!" we thought. Her peers,
we will never see. "

"Did the people of the time because of the never after what they did?" We asked.

"Of course, they thought, children," replied the old man.

"But not as we think," we claimed. And then not understand the ancients, we said.

But we thought of the strange spirit of self-criticism, of his entry
into our already Heart had held.

We thought of him with the Eisaugen and the long, bony fingers, to him who sits in the darkest
corners of our soul and our being picked apart in fibers, as old
women teasing patches of wool or silk.

Piece by piece, had plucked the long, bony fingers, until our whole self as a heap of old rags lying
there, and then were our best feelings, our most immediate Thought all we had done and said,
thoroughly investigated, explored, dissected, and Eisaugen had watched,
and the toothless mouth had laughed scornfully, and whispered: "Look,
there are rags - nothing but rags"

Among the people of that time
were also probably some that their souls to the spirit with the Eisaugen
had developed. In one, he was watching at the source of the Licenses,
sneeringly about good and evil, all understanding, not judgmental,
Investigator, conducting, dissect, the stirrings of the heart and
the power of thought by his constant sneer paralyzing.

The beautiful
Marianne was this spirit of self-criticism in itself. She felt that
his Eisblick, his sneer every word, every step accompanied. Her life
had become a spectacle in which he was the only spectator. She was
no longer a man, they did not suffer, was pleased no, not love, she
pointed out the role of the beautiful Marianne Sinclaire, and self-criticism
sat there staring Eisaugen and diligently plucking fingers and watched
as they occurred.

It was divided into two halves. Pale, unappealing,
mocking was one half of their Ego there and watched scornfully as
the other acted, and never had the strange Spirit, the essence of
shredded, even a single sympathetic word.

But where was this pale
guardians of the acts have been in for the night when they got to
know the fullness of life? Where was he when she, the wise Marianne,
Gosta Berling hundreds of pairs of eyes kissed, when she threw herself
in despair into the snow had to die? Since the Eisaugen were blinded,
as was the sneer paralyzed because the passion had filled her soul
with assault. The roar of the wild hunt from the fairy tale had rushed
her in the hearing. She was in that terrible night, a whole human
being.

O thou God of self-mockery! As it was Marianne after infinite
effort, her frozen to collect arms and they twine to Gosta Berling's
neck, as you had in the shape of the Old Beer Creutz your eyes from
the earth and the stars turn off. had that night you have no power.
You were dead, while they sealed their love anthems, the beautiful
Marianne - dead, as they hurried to Sjö to get the major, dead when
the flames to heaven redden over the tops of the forests him.

See,
they had come, the powerful storm birds, the eagles demonic passions.
With fire and steel swing-mouth, they were rushing come down on you,
you mind with the Eisaugen they had beaten their claws into your neck
and up into the unknown thrown away. Dead were crushed and thou now
but they were further down, the Proud, the mighty, they know, that
way no calculation, which no observers was able to follow, and from
the depths of the unknown was the wonderful spirit of self-criticism
risen again and had re-established himself in the soul of the proud
Marianne. - - -

All February through Marianne was ill on Ekeby. On
Sjö it was from the leaves been infected. The terrible disease has
thrown its full force upon them, cold, exhausted as she was, she was
been near death, towards the end of the month but she began to recover.
Weak but it was still distorted and very. Never again would they are
called the beautiful Marianne.

should take this loss, grief over
the whole of Wermland, as was one of the most delicious Resources
of the country was lost, but so far only known Marianne and her nurse.
Not Once the Cavaliers knew it. The sick-room, where the smallpox
was ruled not each one open.

But when the self-criticism is stronger
than in the long hours of recovery? There she sits and stares and
stares with their Eisaugen and plucks and plucks with their hard,
bony Fingers. And you can see rightly, it sits behind another, pale
yellowish-being, with his sneer and paralyzing stares, and behind
it another and another one - all scornfully of each other and the
world.

And while Marianne was laying there and with all the rigid
Eisaugen looked all died away original feelings in her.

She lay there
and played the ill, she lay there, playing the unhappy woman, played
the lovers, played the revenge seekers. She was all of this, and yet
it was only a game.

Under the gaze of Eisaugen was all fun and unreality,
they were guarding them and himself by another pair of eyes watched,
which was in turn watched by another - in endless perspective.

Jimmie Dale's eyes strained through the blackness across the room. He could just make out the
configuration of the doorway. The Wolf was just on the other side of it, just inside the kitchen,
he was sure of that. Almost a smile was flickering over Jimmie Dale's tight-pressed lips. There
was a way--there was a way now, if the Wolf did not get him with a chance shot. He moved again,
and reached the window, crouched low beneath the sill--and passed by the window.

And then the Wolf spoke from the doorway in a hoarse whisper, and in the whisper there was
a low, taunting laugh.

"I been waitin' for you to try the window, but you're too foxy--eh? All right, my bucko--then
I'll get you another way--with just one shot, see? And then--good-night! And say, whoever t'hell
you are, thanks for crackin' the box for me!"

The man's voice came from the right of the doorway--and the door opened inward--and he, Jimmie
Dale, remembered that he had opened it wide. It was slow, very slow, this creeping inch by
inch through the darkness. It seemed as though his breath were as stertorous as that breathing
from above, and that the Wolf must hear.

And then the Wolf laughed low again.

There was a curious crackling noise, as of paper being torn--and then, quick, in the doorway,
came a yellow flame, and the Wolf's hand showed from around the edge of the jamb, and, making
momentary daylight of the room, a flaming piece of paper, tossed in, fell upon the floor.

There was a flash, the roar of the report--and another--as the Wolf fired! There was the sullen
spat of a bullet upon the panelling an inch from Jimmie Dale's head--and a sharp and sudden
pain, as though a hot iron had seared his leg.

And now Jimmie Dale's automatic, too, cut flashes with its vicious flame-tongues through the
black. Coolly, steadily, he was firing at the doorway--to hold the Wolf there--to keep the
Wolf now in the position of the Wolf's own choosing. The paper was but a dull cinder in the
centre of the room; twisted too tightly, it had gone out almost immediately.

There came screams, loud, terrified, in a woman's voice from the floor above--and the hoarser
tones of a man shouting. A window was flung open. Snarling blasphemous, furious oaths, the
Wolf was firing at the flashes of Jimmie Dale's revolver--but each time as Jimmie Dale fired,
the sound drowned in the roar of the report, he moved a good yard forward.

Came the trampling of feet from overhead now; and now, as the woman still screamed, answering
shouts and yells came from the dance hall. Jimmie Dale had the foot of the bed now near the
corner. He again, and instantly flung himself flat upon the floor--and, in the answering flash
of the Wolf's shot, placed the exact location of the door itself. There was tumult enough now
to deaden the slight sound he made. He crept swiftly past the bed to the wall, against which
the door, wide open, was swung back, felt out with his hand, the edge of the door, and, leaping
suddenly to his feet, hurled the door shut upon the Wolf. There was a scream of pain--the door
as it slammed perhaps had caught the Wolf's arm or wrist--but before it was opened again Jimmie
Dale was across the room, and, flinging himself through the window, dropped to the ground.

The door crashing back against the wall again, the Wolf's baffled yell of rage, and an abortive
shot, told him that his ruse had been solved. He was running now, as rapidly as he could in
the darkness and in the narrow space between the Spider's house and the wall of the brick building.
Yells in increasing volume sounded from the direction of "The Yellow Lantern"; and now he could
hear the pound of feet racing across the courtyard toward the antique shop. The woman, from
the open window above, was still screaming with terror.

If he could gain the door in the fence--and the lane! But there was still the Wolf to reckon
with! The Wolf had only to run through the kitchen and out by the back entrance--the shorter
distance of the two. But the Wolf had already lost a few seconds so that now the race was a
gamble. Could he, Jimmie Dale, get there first! He could not run in the other direction--that
would take him into the courtyard, and the courtyard now, as evidenced by the yells and shouting,
was filled with an excited crowd emptying from the dance hall.

He reached the rear end of the house, and darted across the wider space here, racing for the
opening in the fence--and suddenly changed his tactics, and began to zigzag a little. A revolver
flash cut the night. I will never come near you, never again! I bring death and destruction about everything
that is good and innocent. They should not touch me. I wake in front of you back as the fire from
the water. You may not do it! "

He held his hands behind his back.

"It hurts me anything, Mr. Berling! Now it does not hurt me anymore. I beg your pardon! I beg
you, let me kiss your hand!

"

Gösta held his hands still on his back. He let his eyes wander across the room and approached
the door.

"If you do not accept the satisfaction offered by my wife to you, I have to duel with you, Gosta
Berling, and you must also impose a harsher punishment. "

The countess shrugged her shoulders. He's quite mad, "of cowardice," she whispered. "Let You done
it! It's the same whether I am humiliated. You have the whole time through intentional. "

"Did I want? Do you think that I have wanted that? Now that I no hands I can kiss you will understand
you, that I'm not wanted, "he exclaimed.

He ran to the fireplace and put in his hands.

The flames engulfed about the skin shrank, the nails rattled. At the same moment, but seized
Beer Creutz him by the neck and threw him violently across the room. He staggered to a chair
and just sat there.

He almost felt ashamed at his behavior. Would she believe that he was done only out of bravado? In
a room so filled with people perform - It had to seem like stupid bravado. There was no thought
of danger was there.

Before he had risen from the chair, the Countess was lying next to him on his knees. She took the
red, blackened hands and looked at it.

"I want to kiss her, I want to kiss her," she cried, "when they are
no longer sore and are too sick.

       "Tears gushed from the eyes as she saw the burns and blisters raised
under the scorched skin.

It was a revelation for them with unprecedented glory.

That even such a thing happen on earth was that something could be done for her sake! What kind
of man he was not; capable of anything, powerful for good or evil, a man of great deeds, strong
words, shiny Properties! A hero, a hero! Made from another substance than others. A slave
Mood, the pleasure of a moment, fierce and terrible, but owned by a raging force nothing in the world
fearing.

She had felt so depressed all evening, had seen nothing but heartache
and cruelty and cowardice.

Now everything was forgotten. The young Countess was again happy to be a man. The dawn goddess
was defeated. The young countess saw light and color and a sunny world.

* * * * *

When the countess soon learned that the major's wife was freed, she
gave a great dinner party the gentlemen of honor. Thus began their
long friendship and Gosta Berling.

Ghost stories

Their children
later times! I have to tell you anything new, just what old and almost
forgotten. Only story I got from the nursery where the little ones
on low stools huddled around the old storyteller, from the flickering
fire stove in the hut to that the servants and day laborers were sitting
in a circle and talked, while her wet clothes evaporated and her knife
from the leather sheath in the neck subjected to butter on thick,
to remove soft bread, or out of the hall, where old men were resting
in most rocking chairs and, from the steaming grog animated, talking
of old times. 

Stood a child who listened to the storyteller, the
day laborers, the old men had, on winter evenings by the window because
there were no clouds, which then draw in the sky saw, no, the clouds
were cavaliers, which then drove in shaky companions on the horizon;
the stars were wax candles lit in the ancient county switch to the
borrower headland were, and the distaff, which was purring in the
next room, was from the old Ulrika Dillner entered.

They swept into the lane behind him. He looked back--and his lips grew tight, and bitter hard.
It was no longer forty yards--he was not running so fast now--and it was the Wolf, and the
Wolf's pack, who were gaining.

He swerved for the third time--into the stretch of intersecting lane. The Sanctuary was just
ahead, but he must reach that loose board in the fence and have disappeared before the Wolf
swung around the corner behind him--or else--or else, since that led to nowhere to the French
window of Smarlinghue's room, the game was as good as up if he attempted it!

He strained forward, striving to mass his strength and fling it into one supreme effort. He
was close now--only another five yards to go. Yes--he was weak. His teeth set. Four yards--three!
If only there were not that glimmer of light, faint as it was, seeping down the lane from the
street lamp across the road from the Sanctuary! Two yards--now! No! The Wolf's yell, as the
man tore around the corner of the two lanes, rang out like a knell of doom.

Drawn, white-faced, Jimmie Dale, stumbling now, lurched past that loose board he had counted
upon for what was literally his life--lurched past, and stumbled on. He could not run much
farther. There was one chance left--just one--that there should be no one to see him enter
the front door of the Sanctuary, no one lounging about, no one in the tenement doorway. If
that chance failed--well, then it was the end--the end of Smarlinghue, the end of Jimmie Dale,
the end of Larry the Bat, the end of the Gray Seal--and the Wolf would have kept his pledge
to gangland. But it would be an end that gangland would long remember, and an end that the
Wolf would share!

The street was just before him now. He turned into it--and there came a little cry, a moan
almost, of relief. The doorway of the tenement was clear. He sprang for it, entered, and, suddenly
silent now in his tread, reached the door of his own room, slipped through and closed it softly
behind him.

And now Jimmie Dale worked with frantic speed. He could hear them racing, yelling, shouting
along the lane. A match crackled in his hand, and the gas-jet spluttered into flame--the light
in the room could not be seen from the lane. He ran across the room, tearing off his mask as
he went, and, wrenching the cash-box from his pocket, tucked mask and cash-box behind the disordered
array of dirty canvases on the floor--he dared not take the risk or the time that loosening
the base board would entail. He flung his hat into a corner, and, ripping off his coat, tossed
it upon the cot; then, snatching up a paint tube, he smeared a daub of paint upon the palette
that lay on the table, and laid a wet brush hurriedly several times across the canvas on the easel.

From the corner of the lane and street outside came the scuffling to and fro of many feet,
as though in uncertainty, in indecision, in hesitancy. A dozen voices spoke at once, high-pitched,
wild, frenzied.

"Where is he?... Which way did he go?... Where--" 

So the spring and the first part of the summer had passed. In July she had with Baron Adrian
engaged, to have their own home.

One fine morning, Baron Adrian was on a magnificent horse burst into the courtyard. His hussars
jacket had flashed in the sun-blasted, not to speak of his own fresh face and shining eyes.
Melchior Sinclaire himself had to the staircase stood and put him in reception when he arrived.
Marianne had been sitting at the window and sewn. She had seen him
coming, and now heard every word he spoke to her father.

"Good day, sunshine knight," cried the squire. "You're damned very
nice!

You should Surely not go courting? "

"Yes, uncle, since you've hit the nail on the head," he replied, laughing.

"Do not you have no shame in my body, boy? What do you want to eat because your wife? "

"I have nothing, uncle!

If I had something, I would be careful even to crawl into Ehejoch. "

"What you say Knights sunshine!

But the embroidered jacket did you buy it do? "

"On credit, uncle, on credit!"

"And the horse on which you sit, nice gentleman, this is worth a whole
pile of money.

Where did you get that? "

»Borrowed, uncle!"

Which could not resist the large landowner. "God bless you, my boy," he said. "You of course
you need a woman that you spends a good dowry. If you get Marianne
can, they just take.

"

This put everything between them was quite clear, even before the Baron from his horse increased.
But Melchior Sinclaire knew very well what he was doing, because
Baron Adrian was a good Lad.

Then the suitors had gone to Marianne and blurted out the same with his request.

"Oh, Marianne, Marianne Love, I've spoken with your father. I want to so much to wife. Say that
you want it, Marianne! "

She had coaxed the truth. The old Baron, his father had been tempted back That can buy more
empty pits. Throughout his life, the old Baron pits purchased, and it has never been anything
in it. His mother was concerned, he himself was in Debt fall, and
he asked for her hand by his father's estate and his save hussar jacket.

His home, which was Hedeby pasture, across the lake, almost straight Björne opposite. She knew him
very well, but they were peers and playmates.

"You could really marry up with me, Marianne, it's a miserable life I lead. I have to ride borrowed
horses and can not pay my tailor's bill. In the long run can not go, yes. I must take my leave,
and then I chase me a bullet through his head. "

"But Adrian! what should a marriage be the only? We are not in the least reciprocally in love. "

"Yes, about love, I do not care about the junk," he had said it. "I might like to ride good horses
and go hunting, but I'm not a gentleman, I will . Work If I had only so much money that I take
over the estate at home and my mother could provide carefree days, so I should be quite satisfied. I
wanted to plow and sow, because I love the work. "

And then he had looked at her with his good eye, and she knew he was the truth and said that
he was a man whom one could rely on.

       She became engaged to him, mainly to get away from home, but also
because she was always good to suffer.

But it would never forget the month that followed now, those August evening when her engagement
explained, was all this time of madness.

Baron Adrian had become every day more silent and melancholy.

He came often enough by Bjorn, sometimes twice a day, but she could not help but notice how out
of tune he was. When he met with others, he could still joke, was
in her presence but it quite impossible to loud silence and boredom.

She understood very well what he was lacking: It was not as easy as he had intended to marry
an ugly girl. Now He had reluctantly taken against them. No one knew better than her how ugly she was.
She had shown him, that they have no desire or love to caresses Insurance had, but it was still
an ordeal for him, of course, to imagine them as his wife, and got worse every day. Why does
he torment himself like that?

Why solved the engagement he not? She had given him hints that were clear enough. She herself
could do nothing. Her father had almost said, her reputation vertrüge no other extravagances
in respect of engagements. Since she had thoroughly despised both equally, and every way, who led them
from the area of ​​its two gentlemen had seemed good.

And then - just a few days after the big engagement party - the envelope had come sudden and
wonderful.

* * * * *

In the gravel paths on Björne just before the staircase was a stone that much trouble and complaints
caused.

Car plunged about horses and people fell on maids, with large Milk vats of the way, came stumbled
and spilled her milk, the stone remained still there because he had
been lying there for so many years.

He had in his lifetime the Parents of the landowner located there,
long before anyone thought to build Björne.

The landlord could not see why he should not maintain clear.

On one of the last days of August but it happened that two maids, who carried a large bucket,
fell on the stone. They were badly injured, and the unwillingness of the stone was great.

It was around breakfast time. The squire made his morning tour, but since the People were just
on the court, Ms Gustava two servants of this to dig up the stone.

They came with shovels and levers, dug and dug and finally they managed
well, the lifted out old troublemakers out of his hole.

Then they carried him into the backyard, the was a job for six men

Hardly the stone was gone, when the squire came home and the destruction at first sight saw.
Then he became angry. He claimed that it no longer has the same homestead. Those who had have
the courage to carry away the stone? So Mrs. Gustav had given the order! This woman but had
no heart in his body! Did his wife not know that he loved the stone?

And then he went directly to the stone, picked it up with his arms
and carried him from the backyard back to the courtyard beyond, to
the place where he had been lying, where he threw it out.

And it was a stone, with the six men had had their trouble. This act was in Wermland very
much admired.

As he carried the stone across the yard, Marianne was in the dining
room stood at the window and it looked at.

Never before, he had seemed so terrible.

He was their Lord, this horror with the boundless strength!

An unreasonable, capricious master, who never regard to something another took over on its own
desires.

They were at breakfast, and she stood there with a table knife in his hand. Involuntarily they
got it.

Mrs. Gustav seized them by the wrist. "Marianne!"

"What are you, mother?"

"Marianne, you saw from so terrible. I was very frightened. "

Marianne looked at her a long time. She was a small woman with gray hair and eingeschrumpelte many
Wrinkles, although they had only fifty years. Loved her like a dog without at bats and to reverse
shock. She was almost always in a good mood and still made a sad impression. It was like a
storm-tossed tree on the beach - they had never had peace to grow. She had learned to walk crooked,
she lied, when necessary, and often turned more stupid than it was
to escape allegations.

It was entirely the work of her husband.

"Would you grieve very much, mother if the father were to die," asked Marianne.

"Marianne, you are angry with your father, you are angry with him still. Why can not you all again
well be now that you have a new fiance? "

"Oh, mother, I can not help it. What can I do that I dread him! Know then not even you, how
is he? How can I love him? He is violent, he is raw, he has up tortured, so that you are grown
old before their time. Why he should be our master? He behaves just like a madman. Why should
I honor and respect him? He is not good He is not merciful. I know that he's strong, he can kill
us any day. He can throw us out of the house whenever he wants. Should I love him for that? "

But since Mrs. Gustav was suddenly transformed. She had strength and courage and spoke to very
firmly, "Take care, Marianne, I almost think your father was right, up in the winter when he excluded.
You'll see, you will be punished for this. You must learn to tolerate it, without hating, Marianne,
to suffer without avenge you! "

"Oh, Mother, I am so unhappy!"

A moment later came the decision. From the hall her they heard a heavy fall.

They never learned whether Melchior Sinclaire stood on the stairs and through the open Eßstubenfenster
Marianne had heard words, or whether only the physical effort the Stroke had caused. When she
came, he lay unconscious. They dared never to ask for the occasion. He was never remember anything
about it.

Marianne did not dare to think of the idea over, that they avenged themselves involuntarily
had. But the sight of his father, who was lying there on the same staircase, where she had learned
to hate him, took at once the bitterness from her heart.

He soon returned to consciousness, and when he had a couple of days
should be patient was he returned the old man - and yet very different.

Marianne

saw the parents arm in arm stroll in the garden. They did now accessible. He went never alone
and never went away. When visitors came, he was out of tune, how about everything what separated
him from his wife. The age had suddenly come over him.

He could not decide to write a letter. His wife had to do it.

He decided not the least on his own, but she asked for everything
and everything was done as they themselves are certain.

And he was always gentle and kind.

He felt himself, how much he had changed and how happy his wife was
about it.

She now has "good days, one day he said to Marianne, and pointed
to Mrs. Gustav.

"Oh, dear Melchior," she exclaimed, "you know, I would look far better that you get well would!
"

And they wanted. It was her greatest pleasure to tell of the powerful landowners, as in the days
that had been his strength.

She told how he could tolerate, in to eternal life high life, better than any of the Ekeby
Cavaliers, as he shops graduated and earned a lot of money just when
she thought that he in his ferocity bring the house and yard would.

Marianne knew, however, that they are happy despite all of their actions was. Her husband to
be allowed to be all that was enough for her.

They both looked old, broken ahead of time. Marianne said being able to see how their lives
would make over time. He would gradually become weaker and weaker, by a stroke after the other
would make him more helpless, and she would be around him and take care of him until death separated
them. The end could be yes, but in the distance, Mrs. Gustav could
be happier for a while .

Keep So it had to be said Marianne, owed her life so much.

Even with her own, it had improved. It was not a hopeless despair that they forced to marry,
to find another master. Her wounded heart had found peace. The hatred had whizzes by like love,
but she no longer thought of the torments that they had suffered
as a result.

She had to recognize that it is a truer, larger, richer man had become as formerly, so why
should she want to undo what happened?

Introduced perhaps all suffering into something good? Could still apply to all happiness? She had started,
all the expected to the good that could help them to a higher to develop the degree of humanity.
The old songs were not right. The grief was not the only thing of lasting value. They wanted
to try to go away and a place to find out where they could create value. If her father was still
the old way, it would He has never allowed her to pick up their engagements.

Now Mrs. Gustav had a mild Hand the matter sorted.

Marianne had even been allowed, Baron Adrian money admit he needed.

Even his she could remember with joy - now she was free!

He had his Vivacity and boldness always reminded of Gosta, now they wanted to see him again happy.
He should be back in the Knights of sunshine, in all its splendor at the court of her Father had
come. She wanted it to gain ground in which he could plow and sow, so much his heart desired,
she wanted to do it, that he held a beautiful bride at the altar.

Under such thoughts she sits down and writes, to give him back his freedom. She writes gentle,
earnest words, reason, wrapped in jokes and yet so that he can understand
how serious she means.

While she still writes, hoof sounds on the road.

"My dear Knights of sunshine," she thinks, "this is the last time!"

Immediately afterwards comes the Baron in with her.

"But Adrian, will you come in here!" And she looks shocked at all the clutter.

He is very embarrassed and stammered a few words of apology.

I'm just about to you, "to write, she says. "Look, you can do it still the same reading."

He takes the letter, and she watched him while he reads.

She yearns to his face to see light up with joy. But he has not read long as his face Purpurröte
poured over, and he throws the letter on the floor, stomps on it and escape, even as if the
sky . Collapse

As a slight tremor runs through Marianne.

It is not a beginner in the study of love, but so far she has these inexperienced boys, this is
not meant big kid.

"Adrian, dear Adrian," she says, "what a farce you played me? Come and tell me the truth! "

He
came and was about to suffocate her with his caresses. Poor boy! How did He longed, as he had
suffered!

After a while she looked out the window. Since Mrs. Gustav went over and talked with the large landowners
of flowers and birds, and here they sat and talked of love.

"Life has both of us can feel his hard Ernst, "she thought, and smiled wistfully. "It is console
ourselves that we got our great every child can play with us. "

It was good that she could be loved.

It did surely, it whisper of the magical power heard emanating from her, and how he was ashamed
of what he, in his first interview had said to her. He knew not then what power they had. Oh,
no man could stay near her without loving her, but she had intimidated
him, he was so strange happened void.

This was no luck and no bad luck, but she wanted to try living with this Man to live together.

She began to understand himself and remembered the words of the old
song of the turtledove, the bird of desire: "She never drinks the
clear water, it makes it cloudy until ...«, her foot so that it may
better suit their sad meaning.

Should not they come to the source of life and drink the clear, unmixed happiness. clouded by
nostalgia - This was the best life for them.

The death, the Liberator

My pale friend, death, the Liberator, came in August when the nights
of pale moonlight were home to Captain Ugglas.

But he did not dare, right into the hospitable house connect, for those who love him are only
too few.

My pale friend, death, the Liberator, has a brave heart.

It is his desire of glowing to cannon balls carried by the air ride. He takes the whistling
grenade at the neck and laughs when she jumps up and fly around the splitter. He swings the ghost
dance the cemeteries and not afraid of the Pestsäle the hospitals, but he trembles at the threshold
the upright to the door of the good.

Because he does not want greeted with tears, but with joy Be he who freed the ghosts from the
bonds of pain, taking it from the oppressive Dust-free, they can try out the free, wonderful
life in space.

In the old grove behind the residential home where rival even today slender, stocky white birch,
to give the thin foliage tufts at their tops, the light of heaven,
there crept the death of a. In this grove, which was young and full
of concealed greens, hidden my friend is pale as the sun in the sky,
but during the night he was standing at the Forest edge, white and
pale, with his scythe, in which the moon was reflected.

O Eros! You were the God, at the time belonged to the grove. The
old ones know about it, as before the loving couples who visited his
rest. And yet today, when I go to Berga pass away, annoyed at those
pesky hills and the suffocating dust, so I look forward at the sight
of the grove with the now sparse white tribes of the recollection
against radiated the love of young, beautiful people.

But it was
the death that was there, and the animals of the night saw him. Night
after night listened to the people of Berga, like the wolf howling
to report his arrival. The snake slithered to ascend to the gravel
roads up to the house. She could not speak, but they understood well
that it came as a harbinger of the mighty. And in the apple tree among
women Ugglas window was the owl their cries resound. Because everything
in nature knows the death and tremble.

So it happened that the mayor
and his wife Munkerud, in the parsonage Broer been feast, were passed
by about two clock in the night and a light in Berga are residents
of the burn room window and saw. They saw clearly the yellow flame
and the white light and later told amazement of the light in the summer
night had burned.

As the cheerful young ladies laughed and said Berga,
bailiff had seen ghosts, because the tallow candles at home with them
had already been used up since March, and the Captain swore sacred
and dear, that for weeks and days, no one had lived in the guest rooms,
but the wife of the captain paused and turned pale, for this white
light with a clear flame used to always show when someone in their
family of the death, the Liberator, freed should be.

Soon after,
one day in the bright August came, Ferdinand from his surveying service
home in the northern forests. He was pale and ill back with a incurable
lung disease, and when his mother saw him, she knew that he must die.

He
should go for from here, this good son, his parents never the slightest
Kummer had prepared. The youth should leave the air and the joy of
this world and his beautiful, beloved bride who was waiting for his,
and the rich possessions which throbbing Iron works which had to be
his property.

Finally, as had been waiting for my friend a pale moon
changes, he took courage and went One night after the residential
home. He knew that the people there to hunger and misery cheerful
eye saw, so they should not because it received with joy?

Quietly,
he walked up the gravel road and threw a dark shadow across the lawn,
where the Dewdrop sparkled in the moonlight. He was not as happy with
flowers to the Reaper Hat and the arm around the waist of a young
girl wrapped. He was bent and looked haggard and kept hidden from
the sense in the folds of the mantle, while owls and bats fluttered
around him.

That night, heard Mrs. Uggla, who lay awake that someone
knocked on the window, and she taught in bed and asked, "Who knocks
there?"

And tell the old man that answered her death: "Death knocks."

Then
she got up and opened the window and saw bats and owls flutter in
the moonlight, death but did not see them.

"Come," she said softly,
"friend and liberator, why have you waited so long? I wait, I called.
Come and deliver my son. "

Since the death slipped into the house,
happy as a dethroned king, who in his old age his Crown gets back,
happy as a child who is called to play.

The next day Mrs. Uggla sat
at the bedside of her son and talked to him the bliss of the liberated
spirits and her wonderful life.

"They work, they said, they act."
Which artist, my son, what an artist! If you hinaufgelangst to them,
tell me what you want then? One of the sculptor without chisel The
roses and lilies are one of the masters of the afterglow? And when
the sun in all its Beauty goes will, I sit there and think: this is
Ferdinand's work!

"My dear son, remember how much there to see how
much is to be done! Think of all the Seeds that are to be awakened
in the spring to life, to all the storms, which directed are the dreams
that are to be sent! And think of the long journeys through the Heavens
to the world of the world!

"Think of me, my dear boy, if you get
to see so much beauty! Your poor mother never get to see something
different than Wermland.

"But one day you go into it to God and ask
him if he is not one of you will give small worlds, rolling around
in the heavens, and He will give you. Dey might smell a plant after youse bein' wid
him. Youse go somewhere to an all-night joint so's youse have an alibi all de way through, an'--"

The voice ceased abruptly. In a flash the left sleeve of Jimmie Dale's ragged, threadbare coat
was pushed up, leaving the forearm exposed. The hypodermic needle pricked the flesh. There
was no sound of any step; but the cretonne hanging wavered almost imperceptibly, as though
some one, or perhaps but a current of air from the passage without, had swayed it slightly.
Jimmie Dale was mumbling incoherently to himself now; his lips, like his fingers, working in
nervous twitches. A few seconds passed--a half minute. Still mumbling, Jimmie Dale, with a
caress like that of a miser for his gold, was fondling the shining little instrument in his
hand--and then the hanging was suddenly thrust aside.

Jimmie Dale neither looked up, nor appeared to be conscious of any one's presence--but he had
already recognised the voices of the two men from the adjoining compartment, who, he was quite
well aware, were staring in at him now. The smaller, with sharp, cunning, beady, black eyes,
the prime mover in the scheme that had just been outlined, was a clever and dangerous "box-worker,",
known as the Rat; the other, a heavy, vicious-faced man, with eyes quite as beady and unpleasant
as those of his companion, was Muggy Ladd, who made his living as a "stagehand" for those,
such as the Rat, who were more gifted than himself.

"Satisfied?" inquired the Rat "He's full up to de eyes wid it now. Foo said he'd been hittin'
it up hard fer de last hour." The Rat addressed Jimmie Dale. "Hello, Smarly!" he called out.

Jimmie Dale lifted his head, and blinked at the cretonne hanging.

"Lemme alone!" he complained thickly. "Go 'way, an' lemme alone!

"Sure!" said the Rat genially. "Sure, we will! Sweet dreams, Smarly!"

The hanging fell back into place. Jimmie Dale continued to blink at it, and mumble to himself.
The Rat's pleasant little plan of robbing somebody's safe of fifteen thousand dollars had nothing
to do with her--but it involved a moral obligation on his part that he had neither the right
nor the intention to ignore. And the fulfilment, or the attempt at fulfilment, of that obligation
had suddenly assumed unexpected difficulties. Even while he had listened, and before the Rat
was halfway through his story, he, Jimmie Dale, was conscious that he had made up his mind
the Rat would rob no safe of fifteen thousand dollars that night if he could prevent it, and
he had intended following the Rat from Foo Sen's. He dared not do that now. Muggy Ladd's cautiousness,
that had evidently induced the Rat to inspect his, Jimmie Dale's, compartment, had made that
impossible. The Rat had seen him there; and, forced to the deception in order to avert any
suspicion that he had overheard the others' conversation, the Rat had seen him in the condition
of one who was apparently already far gone under the influence of drug. To risk the attempt
to follow the Rat now, to risk discovery by the Rat, was to risk, not only the admission that
he had been playing a part, but to risk what he had fought for and staked his life for months
now to establish--the role, the character of "Smarlinghue" in the underworld. Nor, for the
same reason, would he dare move from the place for some little time--there was Foo Sen and
the attendants.

Jimmie Dale dropped his head down on the bunk, turned heavily over, facing the partition, and
flung his arm across his face. His lips had ceased their nervous working; they were drawn together,
thin and hard now. It was bad enough to be forced to remain temporarily inactive, though that
in itself was not so serious, for it was still early, not much more than nine o'clock, and
it was only fair to presume that the Rat would make no move for some hours to come; but what
was much more serious was the fact that, unable to follow the Rat, he would be obliged to solve
for himself the problem of whose was the safe, and whose the fifteen thousand dollars that
was the Rat's objective. The Rat had referred to "the old guy"--that meant nothing. "Curley,"
however, was a little better--Curley, who had paid over the money to the "old guy."

Jimmie Dale's forehead, hidden by his arm, furrowed deeply. From Muggy Ladd's initial objection
to touching anything that concerned Curley, it could mean only one Curley. He, Jimmie Dale,
knew this Curley by sight, and, slightly, by reputation. Curley and his partner, Haines, kept
a small wholesale liquor store in one of the most populous, where all were populous, quarters
of the East Side; also Curley had a pull as a ward politician, which might very readily account
for Muggy Ladd's diffidence; and Curley was credited with doing a thriving business--both ways--as
ward heeler and liquor purveyor. Certainly, at least, he was known always to have money; and
had even been known at times to lend it freely to those in want--for a consideration. Yes,
it was undoubtedly and unquestionably Curley, of Haines & Curley, familiarly known on the East
Side as Reddy Curley from his flaming red hair--but to whom had Curley paid over the sum of
fifteen thousand dollars?

For a moment the frown on Jimmie Dale's forehead deepened, then he nodded his head quickly.
If he could find Curley, or Haines, or even Patsy Marles, the clerk who worked in the liquor
store--which might possibly still be open for another hour or so yet--it should not, after
all, and without even any undue inquisitiveness on the part of Smarlinghue, prove very difficult
to obtain the necessary information, for, if Curley had been in a deal involving fifteen thousand
dollars, he was much more likely to be boastful than reticent about it. It resolved itself
then after all, into simply a matter of time.

Whisperings, a raucous laugh, a curse, the clink of coin, the rattle of dice, the scuffle of
slippered feet, the low swish of the loose-garbed Chinese attendants went on interminably.
Jimmie Dale began to toss uneasily from side to side of his bunk, and began to mumble audibly
again. Perhaps half an hour passed, during which, from time to time, the curtain of the compartment
was drawn quietly aside and the impassive face of one or other of the Chinese attendants was
thrust through the opening--and then suddenly Jimmie Dale raised himself up on his elbow, and
pointed a shaking finger at one of these apparitions.

"Foo Sen"--he licked his lips as he spoke--"you tell Foo Sen come here!"

The face disappeared, and a moment later another--the wizened, yellow face of a little old
Chinaman--took its place.

"You wantee me, Smarly'oo?" inquired the proprietor suavely.

"Tell 'em to help me out of this." Jimmie Dale essayed vainly to rise, and fell back on the
bunk. "D'ye hear, Foo Sen--tell'em! Goin' home!"

"Alee same bletter stay sleep him off," advised Foo Sen.

Jimmie Dale succeeded in sitting upright on the edge of the bunk--and snarled at the other.

"You mind your own business, Foo Sen!" he flung out gutturally. "Goin' home! Tell 'em to help
me out--sleep where I like! Makes me sick here--rotten smell--rotten punk sticks!"

"You allee same fool," commented Foo Sen imperturbably, as he clapped his hands. "Mabbe you
no get home; mabbe you get run in police cell sleep him off, instead. That your business, you
likee that--all right!"

Foo Sen smiled placidly, and was gone.

An instant later, Jimmie Dale, his arms twined around the necks of two Chinamen, and leaning
heavily upon them, and stumbling as he walked, was being conducted through a maze of dark and
narrow passages that gradually trended upward to a higher level--and presently a door closed
behind him, and he was in the open air.

It was dark about him, not even the glimmer of a window light showed from anywhere--but in
Foo Sen's there were eyes that saw through the darkness, and his progress, alone now, was both
unsteady and slow. He was in a very narrow alleyway between two houses--one of the several
hidden entrances to Foo Sen's. The alley opened in one direction on a lane, in the other direction
on the street. Jimmie Dale chose the direction of the lane, reached the lane, and, still stumbling
and lurching, made his way along for a distance of possibly fifty yards; then, well clear of
the neighbourhood of Foo Sen's, he began to quicken his pace--and twenty minutes later, frowning
in disappointment, he was standing in front of Reddy Curley's liquor store, only to find that
the place was already closed for the night.

CHAPTER XII

IN THE SANCTUARY

It was ten o'clock now, an hour since the Rat and Muggy Ladd had left Foo Sen's. Again Jimmie
Dale told himself that it was still early, that the Rat would wait for a much later hour--but
at the same time he acknowledged to himself a sense of growing and premonitory uneasiness.
Certainly, in any case, he had no time to lose. He turned quickly and hurried along the block
that separated him from the Bowery--he had a fair idea of the haunts usually frequented in
the evening by the men he sought, and, even failing to find the men themselves, there was always
the chance, and a very good one, that, where Curley was known, Curley's fifteen thousand dollar
deal might be the subject of gossip which would answer his, Jimmie Dale's, purpose quite as well.

But an hour went by--and yet another. Midnight came--and midnight had brought him nothing.
It seemed as though he had combed the East Side from end to end, and he had found neither Curley,
nor Haines, nor Patsy Marles--nor had he heard anything--nor had such guarded questions as
he had dared to ask without involving possible disastrous consequences to "Smarlinghue," should
the Rat, after all, succeed and hear of his activities, had any result. And then, still maintaining
his efforts with dogged determination, though conscious now that with the hour so late he might
perhaps better return to the Sanctuary, change, say, into the clothes of Jimmie Dale, and,
crediting the Rat with already having made a successful inroad on the safe, devote his energies
to running down the Rat, and, if possible, to salvaging the plunder, he was in the act of entering
again one of the dance halls he had already visited earlier in the evening, when one of the
men he was searching for lurched out through the doorway. It was Patsy Marles, garrulous, drunk,
exceedingly unsteady on his feet, and accompanied by three or four companions. They crowded
out past Jimmie Dale, and gathered aimlessly on the pavement. Marles' voice rose in earnest
insobriety for what was very probably by no means the first time.

"Betcher life! Spot cash--fifteen thousand--spot cash! Sure, I saw it! Only--hic!--got one
boss now. Little ol' Reddy got the--hic!--papers from lawyer 'safternoon. "Certainly," said the supervisor and put his finger to his forehead in order
the condition of the hunger artist to suggest the staff, "we forgive you." Always wanted to Fort
I do, that their "admire my fasting, said the hunger artist. In the space of a little more than a second he had at last
obtained the information that he had searched for vainly for over two hours. There seemed something
mockingly ironical in the fact that he had been obliged to search for those two hours! What
had happened in that time? Two hours! It was three hours now since the Rat had left Foo Sen's!

He shook his head with sudden impatience at himself. He would gain nothing by speculating on
possibilities! He had the information now. The one thing to do was to act upon it. So it was
old Grenville's safe! Old Grenville, the lawyer; honest old Grenville, the East Side called
him, the one man, perhaps, whose word was accepted at its face value, and who was both liked
and trusted everywhere in the Bad Lands--because he was honest! Oh, my friend did, thanks for all the joy you've
given me, "Such words would like to talk to and much more.

The major's wife lay in a burning fever, and the voices of the Cavaliers, they could not . Reach
Should not she ever learn how they had worked, as her work again
were recorded and saved the honor of Ekeby?

If they never experience the?

Soon after, the Cavaliers went down to the forge. There has not worked. But they threw fresh coals
and new hot metal in the furnace and prepared everything to melt. Do not cried the blacksmith,
who had gone home to celebrate Christmas, but work itself.

Could the major's only live until the hammer came into action, should there of their cause even
talk with her!

It was evening, and night fell on their work. Several of them were thinking how wonderful it would
be so, it went back to celebrate Christmas in the forge. The large Kevenhiiller scholars, who had
led the reconstruction of the mill and the forge, and Christian Bergh, a strong captain stood
at the stove and supervised melting. Gosta and Julius carrying coals.

Of the remainder, some were sitting on the anvil in the amount drawn
under the hammer others had settled on coal carts and piles of iron
rod.

Lowenberg, the old mystic, spoke to Eberhard, the philosopher, who
sat beside him on the anvil.

"In this very night Sintram," he said.

"Why just at night?" Said Eberhard.

"Do you remember well the contract that we signed a year ago with him? Now, we did nothing, which
would not be excessively cavalier, so he has lost. "

"If you believe in something, so you know probably that we have done many things, what standard
was not cavalier.

First, we have not helped the major's wife, secondly, we began to work on, third, it was not
very gentlemanly terms that Gösta not committed suicide, as he had promised. "

"I've thought about it," said Lowenberg, "but I think you're wrong
there.

It was forbidden for us to deal with petty thoughts to our own advantage,
but not such as love or the honor or our own salvation demands it
of us.

I think Sintram has lost. Yes, I know. I have heard his sleigh bells all night, but it was not
a real sleigh bells, we will have him here soon. "

And the little old man sat and stared at the open door of the forge and the small Bit of blue sky
with the individual stars, which was visible through it.

Suddenly jumped on it.

"You see him," he whispered. "Here he comes sneaking!

Do you see him not in the door? "

"I do not see anything," replied Eberhard, "you're tired, that's all."

"I saw him clearly against the bright sky.

He had his long wolf's clothing, and his Fur cap on. Now he is there in the dark, and I can
not see him. So now he sits by the stove. He is close to Christian Bergh, but Christian did
not seem to see. Now he bends down and throws something into the
fire.

Hu! How disgusting it looks. Take you back there in eight! "

At the same moment there was a bang, and the sparks from the furnace of the forge and their
assistants. But there was no damage.

"He wants revenge," whispered a mountain lion.

"No, you are too great," exclaimed Eberhard, "of these things you
ought nigh have enough! "

"So anything you can think and do, but
what is it? Do not you see it is there on the bar and smiles on us.
But, as I live, I really think he the hammer triggers! "

He jumped
up and tore Eberhard with it. Immediately thereafter, the hammer struck
on booming the anvil down. It was only a cramp, which had come loose,
Eberhard and mountain lions but only with great difficulty escaped
death. 

"You see clearly that he has no power over us," triumphed
Lowenberg;? Revenge "but will he, that's clear. "

And he called to
Gosta Berling: "You go up to the women, Gosta. Perhaps it shows itself
including. They are not as accustomed as I like to see, they could
easily be afraid. And beware, Gosta, for he is not you weighed, and
perhaps he power of the vow for you. Who knows? "

Later it was learned
that mountain lions had been right and that Sintram died on Christmas
Eve was. Some wanted to know that he had hanged himself in prison. The stocky, grizzle-haired man in the centre was a plain-clothes
man from headquarters, named Barlow; at the lower end of the table Reddy Curley and Haines,
his partner, faced each other, Curley drumming indifferently with his fingers on the table-top,
Haines scowling and chewing his lower lip, a certain coarse brutality in both their faces that
was neither pleasant nor inviting; but it was the white-haired old man, bent of form, standing
at the head of the table, upon whom Jimmie Dale's eyes lingered. Old Grenville! The man's hand,
as he raised it to pass it across his eyes, was shaking palpably; his face, kindly still in
spite of its worn and haggard expression, was pale with anxiety and strain. Barlow was speaking:

"You say there's nothing else missing, Mr. Grenville, except the sealed envelope that contained
the fifteen thousand dollars given you by Mr. Curley this afternoon?"

The old lawyer shook his head.

"I can't say," he answered. "As I told you, I often come here at night to work. To-night a
client kept me very late at my house, so it was only, I should say, a quarter of an hour ago
when I reached here. I telephoned you at once, and, awaiting your arrival, I did not disturb
anything, so I have not examined any of the papers yet."

"I don't think it's a question of papers," observed the Headquarters man dryly.

"There was nothing else taken then," decided Grenville slowly; "for there was no other money
in the safe at the time--in fact, I rarely keep any there."

"Well then," said Barlow crisply, "it's pretty near open and shut that some one was wise to
that fifteen thousand being there to-night, and it wasn't just a lucky haul out of any old
safe just because the safe looked easy." He turned toward Curley and Haines. "Were either of
you talking with any one around the East Side to-night who would be likely to make a tip of
it, or pass the tip along?"

"We weren't there at all to-night," Curley replied. "Haines and I were out in my car, and we'd
just got back when you picked us up at the store on the way up here. But, at that, I guess
you're right. We didn't make any secret about it, and I daresay after I'd got the business
tacked away safe in my inside pocket this afternoon"--he grinned maliciously at Haines--"I
may have mentioned it to one or two."

"Got it tucked away safe, have you? Own it, do you?" Haines caught him up truculently.

"Sure!" Curley had wicked, little greenish-grey eyes, and their stare was uninviting as he
fixed them on his quondam partner. "If you want to grouch, go ahead and grouch! We've been
pretty good friends for a pretty good number of years, but I ain't a fool. Sure, it's mine
now! I didn't ask you to employ Grenville, did I? I was satisfied to take any old piece of
paper with your fist on it, saying you'd sold out to me; but no, you were for having the thing
done with frills on it Well, I'm still satisfied! I came here at five o'clock this afternoon,
and paid the coin over to your attorney, and I got a perfectly good little Bill of Sale for
it--and that lets me out. It's up to you and your Mister Attorney. Why don't you ask him what
he's going to do about it, instead of trying to take it out on me the way you've been doing
ever since Barlow told us what had happened, and--"

"Mr. Curley is perfectly right, Mr. Haines"--the old lawyer's voice was quiet, though it trembled
a little. "The title to the business is now vested in Mr. Curley, and you are entitled to look
to me for compensation. I"--he hesitated an instant--"I--I hope the money may be recovered,
otherwise--"

"Eh?" inquired Mr. Haines sharply.

"Otherwise," the old lawyer went on with an effort, "I am afraid I shall have a great deal
of difficulty in raising so large a sum."

"The hell you are!" said Mr. Haines uncharitably, and leaned forward over the table. "Don't
try to come that dodge! Everybody says you're well fixed. Everybody says you've got a neat
little pile salted away."

The lawyer's face was ashen, and his lips were quivering; but there was a fine dignity in the
poise of the old man's head, and in the squared shoulders.

"Nevertheless, I am, unfortunately, telling you the truth, in spite of any rumours, or public
belief to the contrary," he said steadily. "A few thousands, a very few, is all I have ever
been able to lay aside. Those are at your disposal, Mr. Haines, and the balance I promise to
procure as speedily as possible; but in plain words, if this money is not recovered, and I
do not say this to invite either sympathy or leniency, but because you have questioned my word,
I shall have lost everything I own."

Mr. Haines scowled.

"Well, I'm glad to know you've at least got enough!" he said roughly. "It sure will surprise
a whole lot of people that fifteen thousand wipes Mr. Henry Grenville out!"

A flush dyed the old lawyer's cheeks. He made as though to speak--and, instead, turned silently
away from the table, his back to the others. There was silence in the room now for a moment.
Again Jimmie Dale's eyes travelled swiftly from one to another of the group--to Curley, grinning
maliciously at his ex-partner again--to Haines, gnawing at his lower lip, and scowling blackly--to
Barlow, obviously uncomfortable, who was uneasily tracing patterns with his forefinger on the
top of the table--and back to the old lawyer, whose shoulders now, as though carrying a load
too heavy for their strength, had drooped pathetically, and into whose face, in spite of a
brave effort at self-control, had crept a wan and miserable despair.

"Look here!" said Barlow gruffly. "It strikes me you can settle all this some other time. It's
got nothing to do with the guy that pulled this break, and I'm losing time. Headquarters is
waiting for my report. You two had better beat it; Mr. Grenville won't mind, I guess--I've
got your end of the story, and--"

Jimmie Dale was retreating back along the corridor--and a minute later he was in the street,
and scuffling along in a downtown direction. His hands, in the pockets of his tattered coat,
were clenched, and through the pallor of Smarlinghue's make-up a dull red burned his cheeks.
Old Grenville--and the Rat! The smile that found lodgment on Smarlinghue's contorted lips was
mirthless. The old man had taken it like the gentleman he was. He had not perhaps hidden the
quiver of the lip--who would at seventy! It was not easy to begin life again at seventy! Old
Grenville--and the Rat! Well, the game was not played out yet! There would be an accounting
of that fifteen thousand dollars before the morning came, and, as between old Grenville and
the Rat, it might not perhaps be old Grenville who paid!

Hurrying now, running through lanes and alleyways as he had come, Jimmie Dale headed for the
Sanctuary. It was very simple now. The Rat, his work completed, would lay very low--asleep
probably, in the innocent surroundings of his own room! The Rat would not be hard to find.
It was necessary only that, in the little interview he proposed to have with the Rat, "Smarlinghue"
should have disappeared!

He reached the tenement where, for months now, that ground floor room, opening on the small
and dirty courtyard in the rear, had been his refuge, Smarlinghue's home in the underworld,
glanced quickly up and down the street to assure himself that he was not observed, then, darting
into the dark hallway, he crossed it silently, unlocked the Sanctuary door, stepped through,
and closed and locked the door behind him. Nor, even now, did he make the slightest sound.
From the top-light, high up near the ceiling and far above the little French window whose shade
was drawn, there came a faint and timid streak of moonlight. It did not illuminate the room;
it but lessened the degree of blackness, as it were, giving a dim and shadowy outline to objects
scattered here and there about the room--and to a darker shadow amongst those other shadows,
a shadow that moved swiftly and in utter silence, a shadow that was Jimmie Dale at work.

No one had seen him enter--not that there should be anything strange in the fact that Smarlinghue
should enter Smarlinghue's own room, but it would not be Smarlinghue who went away! No one
had seen him enter--it was vital now that he should not be heard moving around the room, and
so invite the chance of some aimless caller in the person of a fellow-tenant, for it was no
longer Smarlinghue who would be found there!

The ragged outer garments he had been wearing lay discarded in a heap on the floor, close to
that section of the wall near the door where the base-board, ingeniously movable, would, in
another moment or so, afford them safe hiding until such time as "Smarlinghue" should reappear
in person again; from the nostrils, from beneath the lips, from behind the ears, the tiny,
cleverly-inserted pieces of wax, distorting the features, had vanished; and now, over the cracked
basin on the rickety washstand, the masterly-created pallor was washed rapidly away--and the
thin, hollow-cheeked, emaciated face of Smarlinghue, the drug fiend, was gone, and in its place,
clean-cut, clear-eyed, was the face of Jimmie Dale, clubman and millionaire.

He smiled a little whimsically, a little wanly, as he stole back across the room. It was a
strange life, a dangerous life! He wondered often enough, as he was wondering now, what the
end of it would be--would he find the Tocsin--or would he find death at the hands of the underworld--or
judicial murder at the hands of the law for a hundred crimes attributed to the Gray Seal! Crimes!
The smile grew serious and wistful, as he knelt on the floor and began to loosen the section
of the baseboard in front of him. There had never been a crime committed by the Gray Seal! Life was easy to live there. All that bitterness and hatred generated elsewhere would
have been there, offset by softness. So it should be in every home.

And inside the house is the house wife and sleeps in a room that extends into the garden used.
She wakes suddenly and listens, but she does not move. She lies smiling and listens. Then the music
comes closer and closer and finally it is as if the musician stopped under her window. It is not
the first time she violin under her Window has heard. Her husband used to come in this way, when
over in a Ekeby have performed exceptionally savage blow.

He stands there and confess and ask forgiveness.

He told her about the evil powers, the lure him away from what he loves most hotly: from her
and the children. But he loves them!

Yes, truly, he loves her.

While playing, she gets up and dresses, without really knowing what it does. She is so very full
of his game.

"It is not a luxury, not luxury, that I was lured away," he does not
"love for other women, not honor, but the tempting variety of life:
its beauty; the bitterness, his wealth, I must feel about me.

But now I have enough of it now I'm tired and weary. I will not leave my home. Forgive me indulgence
have with me! "

As she pulls the curtain aside and opens the window and sees her beautiful,
kind face.

She is good and she's smart.

Her gaze is a blessing as the view of the sun on everything it gets in your way.

It guides and guards them. Where it is, everything has to grow and thrive. It carries the happiness
within.

He jumped onto the windowsill to her and is happy as a lover.

Then he lifts it into the garden and takes them under the apple trees. There he explained to her
how beautiful everything is and shows her the flower beds and plantings
of the children and the small, funny parsley leaves.

When the children wake up, creating a joy and a delight at the return of the father. They show
him with all fittings. He must take all the new and strange thing inspected. The small Mühlwerk
they have made the brook, the bird's nest in the willow tree and
the young carp in the pond that swim close by the thousands under
the water.

And then the father, mother and all children have a long walk through the fields. He must see
how dense stands of rye, as the clover is growing, how to start the potatoes, to put their curly
leaves from the soil.

He must see the cows return home from the field, must the newborn
calves in the paddock and in the sheep barn welcome to search for
eggs and give all horses sugar.

The children hang all day at his coattails. No school, no work - only Wandering with the Father!

In
the evening he plays in front of them polkas, and all day he is to them such a good friend and
Playmate been, that they fall asleep with the prayer, the father may yet always with them .
Remain

He is also a total of eight days and is all the while happy as a child.

He is in everything at home, in love with his wife, his children and he did not think of Ekeby.

But
then comes a morning when he is gone. He could not bear it any longer - it was good luck to
him. Ekeby was a thousand times smaller, but Ekeby was in the middle of the vortex Events!

Oh, how much was there, what he's dreaming, which he could play! How could he separated from
the deeds of the Cavaliers live separately from the long Löfsee that the wild chase of the
fairy tale umbrauste?

On his estate was quiet all his gear. Everything grew and prospered under the care of the mild
Housewife. All there on the court went about in a quiet happiness.

All that elsewhere Bitterness and strife caused would have walked here without complaint, and
pain. Everything was, as it should be. If the lord of the house once longed for as a minor Ekeby
to live, what then? maybe it can help to complain about the sun of heaven, because it disappears
every evening in the west and leaves the earth in the dark?

What is invincible except for the submission! What is certain of victory out of patience!

The witch from the mountains

The witch has come down from the mountains to the banks of Löfsees. You go out the back- see
small rundrückig, in the fur coat and with silberbeschlagenem belt. Why is it come down from
the wolf in the cave dwellings of the people? What looks from the old Mountains in the green
valleys?

She goes begging!

She is eager for gifts, despite their wealth. Over the mountain gorges she hides big white silver
ingots, and the lush meadows, deep down between the Bergen grazing their large herds of black, golden-horned
cows. And yet it goes in wooden shoes and in a greasy Pelzwams, whose colorful edge can be seen just
yet, through the mud the centuries. They stuffed their pipes with foam and begging from the
poor. The devil give such a woman, which never thanked that never
gets enough!

Old she is. How long has it been, since the bright sheen of youth over the broad face with the
brown skin located that shines from fat, on the flat nose and narrow
eyes, that glow under the dirt like burning coals under gray ash?

How long has it been since since she was a little girl on the fence in front of the chalet and
with the sounds of her long Horns to the shepherd boy's response to his love melodies sent?
Several hundred years, it has lived. The elders could remember the time not because they did
not went through the country. Their Fathers have seen old when they were young themselves. And she
is not dead yet! I I write this, they have seen.

Powerful it is, the daughter of the spellcaster Finns, she bends in front of anyone. Their broad
Feet left no anxious traces on the gravel of the path. She invokes the hail up, it draws the
thunderbolt. It can mislead the cows and the wolves on the sheep
rush.

You can do much harm, but little good. It is best to get familiar with her stand. Begging them
to you from your only goat, give it to her, will crash your horse or Your house is on fire,
otherwise your cow is sick or your child dies, or she brings the thrifty Housewife their minds.

It
is never welcome, and yet it is best to receive them with a smiling
mouth.

Who know to whose account it has come! Their purpose is not simply to be their blind beggar
to be filled. Bad omens her follow on the heels, foxes and wolves howl eerily spits in the
twilight, and the disgusting red and black worms, the pus comes out, the woods and crawl to the
door threshold.

Proud she is. Her head wraps powerful wisdom of the fathers.

Something rises to mind. Strong Runes carved into her staff, she did not sell for all the gold in
the valley. Magic spells she can sing, she can brew potions, it can
spell fire shots across the lake aprons and storm nodes.

What does she think that comes down from the darkness of forests,
from the mighty mountains, what she thinks of the people in the valley?

For them, that believes in Thor, the giant killer and the Finn powerful gods, the Christians the
same as farm dogs are domesticated wolves. But they often come down from the mountains to their
dwarf manners to look at. People shudder with horror when they see them, but the strong daughter
of the wilderness is surely among them, so that safe in their horror.

The heroic deeds of their tribe are not forgotten as little as their
own.

As the cat relies on its claws, it relies the wisdom of their brain
and the power that lies in the magic songs of the gods.

No king is his power more secure than they fear the empire over which it rules.

So the witch has moved through many towns. Now she has come to Borg, and they Do not hesitate
to visit the Castle of the Counts.

Through the kitchen, they rarely lead.

It rises straight ascended the terrace steps, they set their broad wooden shoe on the blumenumhegten
Gravel paths, as calmly as she ascended the Mountain hike path.

And it happens just so that Countess Marta is step out on the terrace
to be to enjoy the splendor of the June day. are underway on the gravel
just below the stairs two girls on their way to the storage house
remained standing.

They come from the smokehouse where the bacon is in the smoke, and who have recently smoked ham
on a pole between themselves. "Will the lady countess smell the ham is" even if it strong enough
are smoked, "asked one of the girls.

Countess Marta which is currently a housewife in Borg, leans over the railing and looks the bacon,
but at the same moment the Finn puts his hand on one of the ham.

Egg look, but this brown, shiny rind, this thick layer of fat! This fresh fragrance of juniper
branches, which flows from the ham! This is a feast for the gods! The need have the witch! She
puts her hand on the sides of bacon.

The daughter of the mountains knows no requests or begging. Is it not the consequence of their
grace, that the herbs grow, so that the people live? Frost and storm and flood - all things to send
it. Therefore, it is not appropriate for them to ask or beg. It lays her hand on what she wants,
and it belongs to her.

But Countess Marta knows nothing of the power of the ancients. "Away with you, you beggar! Calls"
her.

Give me a ham, "says the wolf rider from the high mountains.

"She's crazy," cries the Countess and ordered the maids, with their load into the storehouse
to go.

The eyes of the Hundred Years' flame with anger and desire. "Give me the brown ham," she exclaims,
"or it will go bad!"

"I'd rather give it to the Magpies as a man like you!"

As the old man tremble with rage. She raises her staff with the runes in the air and swings it wild.
Her lips utter strange words.

Her hair stands on end, eyes spray Sparks, her face distorted.

"Yourself to eat the magpies," she finally cries.

And then she goes, muttering curses and brandishing the stick. She turned her steps homeward;
further south they will not migrate. Now, the daughter of the Wild meets the purpose to whose account
they descended from the mountains.

Countess Marta is on the garden stairs and laugh at her crazy behavior, but the laughter should
very soon silenced on their lips. Because here they come! It can offer its own Eyes to trust.
She believes that she is dreaming, but as they come, the magpies, they eat should.

Of park and garden they come to them herabgesaust, magpies to dozens
of outstretched Claws and beaks of hungry, ready to hew to them.

They come with noise and shouting. Black and white wings flickering before their eyes. It looks
like the dizziness behind this flock of magpies come flying all around the area, sees the whole sky
full of black and white wings. The metallic colors of feathers shimmering in the hot midday sun.
The Tail race as fighting birds of prey. fly around in circles denser
and denser the monsters of the Countess and aim with beak and claws
on their face.

It must at the hallway to flee and close the door behind him. She staggered against the closed
door, breathless with anxiety, while the screaming magpies flutter and fly out.

Thus it was concluded by the bright beauty of summer in all the joys
of Life.

For them there was henceforth nothing but closed doors and lowered blinds, for her there was
only despair, fear, confusion, bordering on madness.

Again, this story may seem like madness, but it really should still be good. Live it Hundreds of
old people who know the history and witness to do, that the legend
is Sun

The birds settled on the railing of the terrace on the roof.

They sat there, than they were just waiting for that the Countess should reveal to pounce on
them. They hit their home in the park and there they stayed.

It was impossible for them from the court of . Chase One lap on it, so it was only worse, because
for every one that fell, ten New flown. Sometimes distant at ease large crowds to create food,
but it were always returned reliable sentinels. When Countess Marta was only when they only
to a window looked out and the curtain pulled aside for a moment, if they just tried to go
to the stairs, like they were there. All the terrible swarm came with a noisy flap straight at
the house, and the countess was in her innermost Room to escape.

She stayed in the bedroom behind the red room. I often describe the room Hear it as described
in this terrible time looked as Borg was besieged by magpies. Heavy Curtains over doors and windows,
thick carpets on the floor, creeping, whispering People!

In the heart of the Countess attended the funeral pale terror. Her hair was gray. Her skin
was full of wrinkles. In a month she had become an old woman. She could not harden her heart
against this horrible spell. Screaming she came out of their nightly dreams under the delusion
that the magpies herstürzten about them.

She cried all day, this fate, the escape they could not. They feared the people for fear that
the bird flock Each entrant would follow on the heels, and usually sat there in silence, his hands
in front the face, in her chair back and herwiegend, ill and upset by the trapped Air to jump
up suddenly with screaming and wailing.

No man's life could be harder. Who will not complain about the poor?

I have now to tell not much about her, and what I'm told is not been good. I am almost as if
I was beating the conscience.

She was good-natured and cheerful, when she was young, and many amusing stories of her have gladdens
my heart when she have found no place.

But it is so even though these arms did not know that the soul is always hungry. From toys and
Game it can not live. She receives no other food, it tears like a only other wild animal and
then himself.

Midsummer

The summer was hot in those days as now, as I write this. The most wonderful time of the year
had come.

That was the time when Sintram, the evil landlord, to Fors mourned and suffered. He growled about
the triumph of light during the hours of the day and the defeat of
darkness, and he fretted over the leaves of splendor, in which the
trees were dressed, and the colorful Carpet that covered the earth.

Everything was wrapped in beauty. The way that gray and stony, he was received, but a Border
of flowers, yellow and purple summer flowers, sweet peas and dandelion.

As was the force of the midsummer day on the mountains and the bells
of the church Broer through the air until after Fors were taken down
when the unspeakable peace of the quiet day ruled over the lands,
as he rose in anger because he believed that God and the people are
emboldened to forget that he existed, and he decided to expand into
the church .

Go All those who rejoiced over the summer should see him, him, Sintram of the darkness without
the morning, the day without resurrection, without love the winter
spring.

He put on his wolf's clothing and mittens of fur. He had
a red horse in front of a Slide clamp and attached clamps on the bare
dish with the snake heads. Equipped as if they were thirty degrees
cold, he moved to the church. If under the sled runners crunched,
he believed that the coming of the cold. He believed that the foam
on horseback Ripe. He felt no heat. He ran out of cold, such as heat
radiates from the sun.

He drove across the vast plain north Broer
of the church. Large, bright villages were on his ways and fields
with singing larks about it. I never had the larks sing Sun hear about
how these fields, and I have often pondered on whether he is also
deaf could do for these hundred-voice choir.

On his way he came over
to much of what he would have gotten if he his a View would have given.
Before the door of every hut, he would be seen tending two birches
have, and through the open window he would have looked in Stuben,
whose walls green branches were decorated.

The smallest beggar girl
went with a lilac branch in hand on the road, and each farmer's wife
had put a very small bunch of flowers in the handkerchief.

Maien
trees with flowers and green wreaths were on the farms. The grass
was trampled down all around, because the dance was in mid-summer
night passed away fun of them.

swarmed the bottom of the Löfsee it
from wooden rafts, small white sails to the glory of the day hoisted,
though no wind was stirring, there was no mast, which was not carrying
a green wreath.

On all the many ways that led to Bro, people came
to church moved, especially the women adorned in delicate, bright,
homespun summer dresses, especially for this day was finished. All
were dressed festively.

And people could not be done, over the holiday
peace and quiet to rejoice from the everyday work, the lovely warmth
of the promising harvest and strawberries, which began to redden the
roadside itself. They spoke of the silence of the Air, clear sky of
the sky and the larks singing and said, "Yes, truly, this is the day
of the Lord! "

Sintram came thither. He cursed and swung the whip
over the sweat-drenched end Horses. The sand crunched ugly under the
sled runners, the sharp sound of the bells drowned out the sound of
church bells. The end was in angry wrinkles under his fur cap.

Since
the church guests were astonished, and thought they had seen the incarnate
Evil One. Even today, on the feast days of summer itself, they were
the cold and the evil forgotten. It is a bitter lot, to walk on earth.

The
people who stood in the shade of the churchyard wall or sat on the
cemetery stones and waiting to start the service that should be watched
in silent amazement at how He walked there on the church door. Definitely
the beautiful day had their hearts with joy it met that it was permitted
them, on God's green earth to walk and the beauty to enjoy the life.
Now that they saw Sintram, they were by the idea of ​​a mysterious
Misfortune taken.

As he walked through the crowd, they saw with superstitious
fear of the way, as He saluted. And it corresponded in location with where he knew it should be--about three
lots in from the street. He sprang for it, and swung lithely to the top--and hung there, as
though still scrambling and struggling for his balance. The officers had not turned into the
lane yet, and he had no intention of affording them any excuse for losing sight of their quarry!

Ah! There they were! A yell and a revolver shot rang out simultaneously as they caught sight
of him--and Jimmie Dale dropped down to the ground on the inside of the fence. In the moonlight
he could see quite distinctly. He darted across the yard, heading for the basement door of
the building that loomed up in front of him.

The little steel picklock was in his hand as he reached the door. A second--two--three went
by. He straightened up--and again he waited--stepping back a few feet to stand sharply outlined
in the moonlight.

Again a shout in signal that he was seen, as one of the officers' heads appeared over the top
of the fence--and Jimmie Dale, as though in mad haste, plunged through the door.

And now suddenly his tactics changed. He needed every second he could gain, and the police
now certainly could no longer lose their way. He swung the door shut behind him, locked it
to delay them, and snatched his flashlight from his pocket. He was at the top of a few ladder-like
steps that led down into the cellar of the building, and halfway along the length of the cellar
the ray of his flashlight swept across a huge coal bin, its sides, it seemed, built almost
up to the ceiling.

Jimmie Dale was muttering to himself now, as he took the steps at a single leap, and raced
toward the side of the bin that flanked the wall--"seventh board from the wall--knot on a level
with shoulders"--and now he was counting rapidly--and now the round, white ray played on the
seventh board. They were smashing at the cellar door now. The knot! Ah--there it was! He pressed
it. Two of the boards in front of him, the width of a man's body, swung back. He left this
open--a blazed trail for his pursuers, battering now at the cellar door--and stepped forward
into a little opening, too short to be called a passage, and, silent now, halted before another
door.

Brain and eyes and hands were working now with incredible speed. That it was a sound-proof
room was not, perhaps, altogether an unmixed blessing! Was the place deserted? Was there any
one within? He could hear nothing. Well, after all, did it make any ultimate difference? The
room itself would condemn them!

The picklock was at work again--working silently--working swiftly. And now, in its place, his
automatic was in his hand.

He crouched a little--and with a spring, flinging wide the door, was in the room. There was
a smothered cry, an oath, the crash of an overturned chair, as two men, from a table heaped
with little piles of crisp, new banknotes, sprang wildly to their feet: And Jimmie Dale's lips
twisted in a smile not good to see. Standing there before him were Curley and Haines.

"Keep your seats, gentlemen--please!" said Jimmie Dale, with grim irony. "I shall only stay
a moment. It is Mr. Curley and Mr. Haines, I believe--in their private office! Permit me!"--he
reached out with his left hand, and closed the door. "Ah, I see there is a good serviceable
bolt on it. I have your permission?"--he slipped the bolt into place. "As I said, I shall only
stay a moment; but it would be unfortunate, most unfortunate, if we were by any chance interrupted--prematurely!"

Haines, ashen white, was gripping at the table edge. Curley, a deadly glitter in his wicked
little eyes, moistened his lips with the tip of his tongue.

"How'd you get here, and what the hell d'you want?" he burst out fiercely.

"As to the first question, I haven't time to answer it," said Jimmie Dale evenly. "What I want
is the sealed envelope stolen from Henry Grenville's safe--and I'm in a hurry, Mr. Curley."

"You're a fool!" said Curley, with a sneer. "It's--"

"Yes, I know," said Jimmie Dale, with ominous patience, "it's counterfeit, you miserable pair
of curs! Counterfeit like the rest of that stuff there on the table! Nice place you've got
here--everything, I see--press, plates, engraver's tools--nothing missing but the rest of the
gang! Perhaps, though, they can be found! Now then, that envelope--quick!" Jimmie Dale's automatic
swung forward significantly.

"It's in the drawer of the table," snarled Curley. "Curse you, who--"

"Thank you!" Jimmie Dale's lips were a thin line. "Now, you two, stand out there in the middle
of the floor--and if either of you make a move other than you are told to make, I'll drop you
as I would drop a mad dog!" He jerked the two chairs out from the table, and, still covering
Curley and Haines, placed the chairs back to back. "Sit down there, stretch out your arms full
length on either side, the palms of your hands against each other's!" he ordered curtly; and,
as they obeyed-- Haines, cowed, all pretence at nerve gone, Curley cursing in abandon--he slipped
the handcuffs over their wrists on one side, and, taking the piece of cord from his pocket
that he had intended for the Rat's ankles, he deftly noosed their wrists on the other side
with a slip knot, which he fastened securely.

He stepped over to the table.

"Counterfeiting five-hundred and thousand-dollar bills is rather out of the ordinary run, isn't
it--I see these on the table here are the regular small variety!" he observed coolly, as he
pulled the drawer open. "The big ones make a quick turn-over, though, if you have the plant
to turn them out, and can swing a scheme to cash them--after banking hours--and steal them
back! Hello, what's this!"--the sealed envelope, torn open at one end, evidently by the Rat
in his examination, but still full of the counterfeit notes, was blood-smeared, and on the
upper left-hand corner there showed the distinct impression of a finger print.

There was a sudden crash against the door.

Both men, in their chairs, strained around--and now Curley, too, had lost his colour.

"My God, what's that!" he whispered.

The thin metal case was in Jimmie Dale's hand. With the tweezers, he lifted one of the little
gray seals to his lips, moistened it, and, using his elbow, pressed it firmly down upon the
envelope.

Came another furious thud upon the door--and another.

"What's that!" Curley's voice was a frantic scream now. "For God's sake, do you hear, what's that!"

Jimmie Dale, under a pencilled arrow mark indicating the finger print, was scrawling a few
words in printed characters.

"It's the police," said Jimmie Dale calmly. "Somebody murdered the Rat to-night!" He surveyed
the envelope in his hand critically. Between the arrow mark and the gray seal were the words:
"Look on the Rat's collar--and these gentlemen's fingers." He laid the envelope down on the
table--and, as the door suddenly splintered and sagged under a terrific blow from some heavy
object, he retreated hurriedly to the farther end of the room. Here a half dozen steps led
upward, and hanging from the ceiling beside them was a cord to which was attached a leaden
weight. He jerked the cord quickly. A panel above him slid noiselessly back. He leaped to the
top of the stairs, and paused for a moment.

"They've been looking for this place for several years, I guess," said Jimmie Dale softly.
"And I guess it will change hands to-night for the last time--and without the need of any Bill
of Sale from old Henry Grenville! But we were speaking of the Rat--and why the Rat was murdered.
If the Rat had had a chance to spread the news that the money paid by Mr. Curley this afternoon
was counterfeit, it--"

Jimmie Dale did not finish his sentence. In a bound, as the door from the cellar crashed inward,
he was through the panel opening and in the room above. There was light from the open panel
behind him--enough to show him that he was in a small room which was fitted up as an office--the
office of Haines & Curley, wholesale liquor dealers!

In an instant he was out of the office, and running silently down the length of the store.
He snatched off his mask, reached the front door, opened it, stepped out on the quiet, deserted
street--and a moment later Jimmie Dale was but one of the many that still, even at that hour,
drifted their way along the Bowery.

CHAPTER XIV

THE LAST CARD

Two weeks had gone by--or was it three? How long was it since he had found the Tocsin's letter
in the secret hiding place of the new Sanctuary! It had seemed to him then that he had been
given a new lead, a new hope; for, once he had recovered from his startled amazement at the
realisation that she was as conversant with the secrets of the new Sanctuary as she had been
with the old, there had come the thought of turning that very fact to his own account--that
if he were unable to reach or find her by any other means, he might succeed, instead, by letting
her unwittingly come to him. She had come there once to the Sanctuary when he had been absent;
she was almost certain to come there again--when she thought he was absent! He had put his
plan into execution. For days at a stretch he had remained hidden in the Sanctuary--and nothing
had come of it--and then the inaction, coupled with the knowledge that the peril which faced
her, even though his previous efforts to avert it had all been abortive, had made it unbearable
to remain longer passive, and he had given it up, and gone out again, combing and searching
through the dens and dives of the underworld.

That had been two weeks ago--or three. And the net result had been nothing!

Jimmie Dale allowed the evening newspaper to slip from his fingers. It dropped to the arm of
his lounging chair, and from there to the floor. It was no use. He had been reading mechanically
ever since he had returned from the club half an hour ago, and he was conscious in only the
haziest sort of way of what he had been reading. The market, the general news items, the editorials,
had all blended one into the other to form a meaningless jumble of words; even the leading
article on the front page, that proclaimed as imminent the final and complete expose of what
had come to be known as "The Private Club Ring"--an investigation that, from its inception,
he had hitherto followed closely, promising as it did to involve and link in partnership with
the lowest of the underworld names that heretofore had stood high up in the social circles
of New York--seemed uninteresting and unable to hold his attention to-night.

He rose impulsively from his chair, and, walking down the length of the richly furnished room,
his tread soundless on the thick, heavy rug, drew the portieres aside, and stood looking out
of the rear window; It was dark outside, but presently the shadows formed into concrete shapes,
and, across the black space of driveway and yard, the wall of the garage assumed a solid background
against the night. He passed his hand over his forehead heavily, and a wanness came into his
face and eyes. Once before be had stood here at this window of his den, the room that ran the
entire depth of his magnificent Riverside Drive residence, and old Jason had stood at the front
window--and they had watched, Jason and he--watched the shadows, that were not shadows of walls
and buildings, close in around the house. That was the night before he had escaped from the
trap set by the Crime Club; the night before the old Sanctuary had burned down, and police
and underworld alike had believed the Gray Seal buried beneath the charred and fallen walls;
the night before she, the Tocsin, had come for a little while into her own, and for a little
while--into his arms.

His lips twisted in pain. A little while! Days of glad and glorious wonder! They were gone
now; and in their place was emptiness and loneliness--and a great, overmastering fear and terror
that would clutch at times, as it clutched now, cold at his heart. Yet the evil is not dead in it. Drive the Dead tired
on the morning of the four clock! Give the unskilled worker a day's work at immoderate the
heavy loom! That's good. The penitent may not have enough power itself, the whip to swing with
enough intensity.

When spring comes the big wash, can they stand at the Countess Marta Waschzober in the wash
house. She herself, to look after their work.

"Your water's too cold, she says, draws water from a boiling kettle and pour it over her bare arms.

It's
a cold day when the washer women are at the lake and wash the clothes have to. Showers move
over them and soak them to the skin. Her clothes are heavy as lead.
Working with the washing wood is hard.

The blood leaps out among the fine nails.

But Countess Elisabeth does not complain.

Praise be to God's goodness! There are probably some other refreshment for the repentant soul as the
suffering? The sharp drop node of the scourge soft as rose petals on the back of the penitent.

The
young woman soon finds out that Gosta Berling lives.

The old woman had her only elicit a confession want. Yes, what then? It is God's will have been! On
the way he has the sinner to the Path of repentance enticed.

Only one of them beängstiget. How should it endure her mother, whose heart God sake has so hardened?
Oh, he will judge mildly. It must be bad, to help the sinner, God's love to win again.

She does not know how often a soul which has killed all the other delights, a true pleasure investigated
in the cruelty.

If the intolerant, darkened soul flattery and caresses is deprived and the ecstasy of the
dance and the thrill of the game as they appeared in their dark Deep down and brings out the
cruelty. There is still a source of joy for the relaxed Emotions, namely the animal and human
cruelty.

The old man is himself aware of any malice.

You only believe that they have a frivolous wife punishes, and it
is because at night for hours awake and ponders new tortures after.

Woe to her that she is committing sacrilege! The work that this great
boon transformed her into a martyr, in a fine!

One evening she walks through the house and leaves from the young
countess with a light shine.

It bears no candlestick in his hand.

"The light is" burned down, says the boy.

"Is the light burned down, let the candle" burning, Countess Marta
replied.

And they go on until the smoking wick burned on the hand disappears.

But these are just little things. There is torment for the soul, exceeding
any physical pain.

Countess Marta invites a visit, leaving the hostess serve the guests
at their own tables.

See, this is the big day of the penitent! They are strangers in their
degradation .

See You will see that it is no longer worthy to sit at her husband's table.

O, with which cold scorn, the cold eyes do not rest on her!

But it should be a thousand times worse!

No eyes met hers. All at the table, men and women sit in silence, out of tune there.

But she collects all like glowing coals, and places it on her head. Is their sin because so
frightening? Is it a shame to dwell near her?

And then comes the temptation: Anna Stjarnhok that has been her friend, and the magistrate
from Munkernd, Anna's neighbor, they embrace, as it comes to them,
you take the roast dish out of hand, you push a chair and not let
her do.

"Sit with us, my child, says the mayor," You've done nothing wrong. "

And with one voice declare all the guests when they will not sit at the table, then they leave the
house. They are not a constable. They do not dance to Countess Märtas
pipe.

Do not be so easily fooled as have the imbecilic Count!

"Oh, you good gentlemen Oh, dear friends! Do not be so merciful!

It forces me my sin to trumpet himself. There is one, I have too much. "

"But child, you suspect have no idea what is sin!

You do not know how innocent you are. Gösta Berling did not even know, to keep it liebhattest.
Take your place again in your Let a! You have done nothing wrong. "

They maintain their courage for a time and are themselves suddenly
cheerful as the children.

       Jokes and laughter echoes around in circles.

The hot-blooded, easily agitated people so good, but nevertheless they are sent by the tempter.
You try and tell her that they have a Martyr, and mock Countess Marta quite publicly, whether it was
an old witch.

But they do not understand. You do not know how the soul yearns for purity, they know not, as
the penitent is forced from his heart to the stones of the path and exposure to the hot sunshine.

Sometimes has to Countess Elisabeth whole days sitting still at the hoop, and there tells the
old Countess her endless stories of Gosta Berling, the priest and adventurer. Enough her memory
is not sufficient, they invented something and ensures only that
his name of the young Wife all day sounds in the ears.

She fears the most. looks to such days them that their repentance is never an end. Your love
will not die.

She believes that it is rather himself die. Your body forces begin to wane. It is often very sick.

"Where
as your knight?" The countess asked mockingly. "Day after day I saw him at the top expected
of the Cavaliers. Why does he stormed the castle Borg do not sit on the throne and throws me and
tied your husband in the tower? Did he forget that? "

You feel almost a need to defend him and say that they themselves forbidden him has to inflict
upon her any help. But no, it's not to mention the best to remain silent and suffer.

From day to day more then they disappear in the fire of over-exertion. She is rooting resistant
and is so weak that they can hardly keep himself upright. It has only one wish: to die. The
strong forces of life are banished.

The love and joy do not dare to stir. She has no fear of suffering.

* * * * *

It is as if her husband no idea of ​​their existence.

He sits most of the day locked in his room and studied half-illegible handwriting and old klecks
term Pressure.

He reads noble letters on parchment with the Swedish Empire label, large and powerful, from
red wax and hidden in a turned wooden cap.

He studied old shield badge with white lilies in the field and grabbing in blue. On such things
he appreciated which he knows to be interpreted with ease. And he read again and again old funeral
orations and Personnel of the noble Earl Dohna, in which their actions with those of the heroes
of Israel and the gods of Greece are compared.

These old things have always made it fun. At his young wife he's had enough . Think

Countess Marta said a word that has killed off all the love in him, "You got you your money
arrested for, "Something like that can probably tolerate a man.

This erases all love. Now it was him no matter what happened to this young woman. If his mother
on the path of duty attributed, so that was good. Count Henrik had a great admiration for his
mother.

This misery lasted a month. But all the time was not so stormy and turbulent, as it may seem, if
the events compressed into a few pages written are. Countess Elizabeth is always a calm exterior
are carried to the show. Only the einemal, when she heard that Gosta
Berling should be dead, she was overwhelmed by emotion.

But so great was her remorse for her husband that she had been unable to keep their love, that
they probably would have to be tortured to death Countess Marta,
if not a Evenings talking their old housekeeper, with her would have.

"Countess need to talk to the count," she said. "My God, woman are Countess such a child. Countess
do not even know what is coming on, but I see very well as it is so ordered. "

But that was precisely this that they could not tell her husband as long as it such a black
Suspicion they harbored.

That night, she dressed herself and walked silently from the house.

She wore the clothes of a ordinary peasant girl and had a bundle
in his hand.

It was their intention from their to escape from home and never return
there again.

They did not flee to the torment and escape the torture. But now they believed that God had given
her a sign that they could go to the health and strength to keep
her body.

She moved not to the West across the lake, for there dwelt the one she loved. They also went not
north, for there lived many of her friends, and not south, because far down south was her father's
house, and she would come no closer. But she emigrated to the East, where, she knew she had no
home, no dear friend, no Someone they knew, no help, no comfort.

She did not go with light steps, because they did not become reconciled with God. But though she
was glad that they carry the burden of their sin in the future among strangers should. Indifferent
eye should rest on her, soothing like cold steel of a swollen limb
is placed.

She wanted to go until they found a miserable hut on the forest edge,
where no one knew it.

"You see, what about me," she would say, "and my parents have driven me out. Give me food and
clothes and a roof until I earn my own bread can. I'm not without money. "

And so they walked in the bright June night there because the part was under their heavy suffering
elapsed. Oh, Mai, the beautiful time when the birches with their light green to dark mixed forests
of fir, where the south wind saturated heat comes from far across the sea.

I have to appear ungrateful than others, you've delighted with your gifts, you beautiful Month!
Not a word, I have praised your beauty.

Ah, May, dear, bright month!

Have you ever taken a child on his mother Lap sit and tell stories end? As long as the child
of gruesome battles and the bitter Leiden beautiful princess listened, it keeps open mind and eyes,
but begins when the mother to speak of happiness and sunshine, the child closes his eyes and gently
asleep, the Head nestled against her chest.

Look, you have beautiful month, so a child I too. Let the stories of other flowers and Sunshine
listen, I for my part, I choose the dark nights of appearances and adventure, I choose the
dark fate, the mourning of the lost passions fulfilled Heart.

The iron Ekeby

It was spring, and from all the iron the iron works Wermland should be sent to Gothenburg.

On Ekeby but they had to send no iron. In the fall has long been major water shortage been, and
in the spring had the pensioners governed.

In their time, frothy, bitter beer, the broad granite steps of the Björkseefalles down and Löfsee
was filled not with water but with brandy. In her time was not Pig iron placed in the forging,
in shirt sleeves and wooden shoes stood in front of the forge the fire and turned huge roast on long
skewers, while blacksmiths studded Capons with big guns were on fire.

In those days the dance was over the hill there.

They slept on the bench and played cards on the anvil. In those days no iron forged.

But spring came, and trading offices in Gothenburg began to be on
the iron wait Ekeby.

They took out the contracts that were signed with the Major and Baroness
were and where deliveries were promised by many hundred talents.

But what took care of the pensioners are the contracts of the major's
wife?

They kept the joy and playing the violin and the entertainments in
progress.

They ensured that the dance on the hill went.

It came from Stömne iron, and it came from iron Sölje. The iron found its way from Kymsberg over the
nations, down to the Wenersee. Uddeholm came from iron and Munkefors and all the large estates
around. But where is the iron from Ekeby?

Ekeby is no longer the most important of all steel plants throughout
Wermland?

No one watches on the honor of the old house? Oh no! The same is valid in the hands of suitors
down the only ensure that the dance goes on the hill. What assets their miserable brains continue
to care for?

But Gießbäche and waterfalls and rivers and barges and locks and ports, and wonder ask: "Is it not
the iron from Ekeby"?

And it whispers and asks from forest to sea, from mountain to valley, "Come for the iron from Ekeby
not? If for no longer Ekeby iron? "

And deep inside the forest starts the charcoal kilns to laugh, and it is as if the heads laugh
at the big hammers in the dark forges scornfully, holes open up their broad Throat and agree
to a mocking laughter.

The desks in the trading posts, in which the contracts Major's wife kept the lie, shake with
laughter. "Have you ever heard such a thing? It is not an iron on Ekeby! On the iron works best
in all of Wermland they have no iron! "

Go forth, careless! On their homeless!

It tolerates her that such a shame on Ekeby falls?

As true as you love the most beautiful spot on God's green earth,
so true that he Due to the far end of your desire is, as sure as you
call his name among strangers can, without that connect you with tears
in his eyes, raises you, gentlemen, saves Ekeby honor!

Well, if that has been suspended in Ekeby the hammer, then surely
in the six other iron works, which we belong, has worked.

There are certainly more iron than we use!

And then takes off Gosta Berling, to talk with the administrators
on the six other farms.

On Högfors that the Björk Seebach, is dense in Ekeby says he will not be worth to ask. This
is too close to Ekeby and had to immediately under the influence
of the Cavaliers stood.

But he drove a few miles farther north until he came to Lätafors.

This was a nice place, let not deny it! The upper part of the Löfsees spread itself the one hand,
and behind it was Gurlittafelsen with its pointed peaks and its romantic look that fits so
well for an old mountain.

But the forging of the not as it should be: the drive wheel is broken and it is the whole
last year through been.

"Why is it not but put right?"

"The carpenter, the only carpenter in the whole area here that can make it whole again, has been
employed elsewhere.

We do not have a single hundred-forge iron may. "

"But why have you not sent for a carpenter?"

"Sent to the Carpenters! As if we had not sent him any day! But he could yes never come. He has
had enough to do all the arcades and bowling alleys on Ekeby to make ready. "

       Since it is Gösta suddenly realized how he fare on this trip.

He pulls up next to Björnidet. Also this is a great place with a situation which could be suitable
for a castle.

The house looks great on a semi-circular valley across, surrounded on three sides by majestic
heights, and limits on the fourth of the Löfsee. And Gösta know that there is no better place
for moonlight walks and schools, as the path to the Elfufern along, past the waterfall and
down to the forge, the has its place in vaults that are spread on
the rock face itself.

But iron is there iron?

Of course not. They had had no coal, and from Ekeby they had no money can get to pay the Köhler, nor people
to take the coals. All Winter, the plant had stood still.

And then crashes on Gosta, to the south. He comes to trading on the eastern shore of the lake
and after Löfstafors deep inside the forest and after Elgfors - but even there it was made him
no better. Nowhere does it have iron, and everywhere there seems
to blame the Cavaliers to be that it is way she does.

Finally he comes to Elgfors, a small iron, deep down between the eastern
Hills, one of those lovely places, which is always a tempting power
over men have possessed.

There are magnificent hunting in the woods and rich fishing in the lake. Since are headlands
with birch forests, where you would like to stay in silent brooding, while the day lasts. And
then there is such silence and such a peace in that not to belong to the troubled and restless
world thinks.

But the forces of peace, the rule there, there have always been established that the way dahinauf
impassable or nearly impassable is.

That should feel Gosta Berling, when he and Don Juan finally came up on the iron work.

On Elgfors Gustav Bendix administrator. He puts his face fell into the most serious Fold, as he learns
the purpose of Göstas coming.

"You probably have nothing other to the works," he asks.

"No, nothing!"

"The villain," he exclaims. to come "with such stories. Wilt thou believe that I iron their trucks
this winter have met here in the woods? Believe me, Gosta, they have
their iron already in Gothenburg.

"

As summarized Gösta hope.

He had not promised much of Gustav Bendix, but now begins he believes in, that there is iron.

Gustav Bendix takes him by the hand and leads him to the office.

"Now I will show you something wonderful, dear brother," says the old joker and takes a couple of
small steel files from the drawer.

"Can you probably guess where I found them?" And he sees him with a terrible Serious face.

No, you can not guess Gosta.

"See here!" And he takes a large dead rat from the same drawer, and then shows He Gösta that the rat had
no front teeth in the normal foot, but a few Steel files.

"What do you think, dear brother?" Gustav continues Bendix. "Look, I think it wrong by God. Such
a rat can even eat iron. So do these little devils. All our iron
rod they have eaten. Not even a hundred-remains. When I came yesterday
in the memory, the whole mess is gone, the memory is swept clean like.
There was nothing left but a few chips and a dead rat, but sat the
two files in her mouth, and I understood so, how the whole thing had
happened. Want to have the files? They are quite interesting. "

And
as he turns to his troubled face Gosta Berling, on the office chair
sinks and close to it, is to die with laughter, although it is not
the first time, that he hears that the rats eat the iron, the iron
works. 

Sun returns home to Gösta Ekeby, and the Cavaliers look to
the few dark faces Zentner, which are in stock, and they bow their
heads full of sorrow and shame, for they hear all of nature laughing
at Ekeby scorn, and to hear to believe, as the earth shakes with sobs
as complaining the grass and the flowers that it is made with the
honor of Ekeby.

* * * * *

But why so many words and so many wounds?
Since the iron from Ekeby!

Because it loaded on barges on the banks
of Klarelfs is ready hinabzusegeln the river, ready, in Karlstad weighed
in the balance and went on a Wenernschute to Gothenburg. So the honor
of Ekeby is saved!

But how is that possible? In Ekeby's only a few
hundredweight of iron, and on the six other courts had found nothing.
How is it possible that heavily laden barges now perform an unprecedented
amount of iron as the balance in Karlstad do? Yes, then you have to
the Cavaliers ask.

The pensioners are even on board the heavy, ugly
cars, they want the iron itself bring Ekeby of Gothenburg. No ordinary
Fährknecht may accompany the iron. With Bottles and food baskets,
French horn and violin, with guns and fishing lines and playing cards
Are the Cavaliers went on board. You want to do anything for her dear
iron and it does not leave before it is disembarked on the quay in
Gothenburg. You want to delete itself and unload, do sail and oar
handle. They are quite likely to such a task to solve. Is there probably
a sandbank in the river, a cliff in Wenersee, they do not know? Do
not hand the wheel and the sail cloth just as adroit as the violin
and reins?

None of the pensioners has remained at home. Eberhard
has left his desk, and Cousin Christopher is creeping out of the oven
area. Even the gentle mountain lions is with it. No one can hold back,
where it is the honor of Ekeby.

But it is not good for mountain lions
to see the Klarelf, thirty-seven years has been he had not seen, and
as long it is since he has recently been in a boat. He hates the bright
surfaces of lakes and rivers gray. He must at all too sad things Think
when it comes to water, so he avoids it, but now he has can not keep
at home. He also has to be there, where there is a question of honor
to save from Ekeby. Thirty-seven years ago had Lowenberg drowning
his fiancee in Klarelf , See, and since that time, his poor head was
often confused.

But as he stands there and looks down into the stream,
his poor brain is clouded more and more. The gray stream which flows
with many small, glittering waves, is a big snake with silvery scales
that lies and lies in wait for prey. The tall, yellow sand bank with
sparse Tufts of grass, through which the river bed to be drilled are
the walls of a pit, on the bottom of the snake is lurking, and the
broad road that breaks a hole in the wall and through deep sand to
the ferry hinabschlängelt, in addition to the barges vertäuet lie,
is the entrance to the terrible murder pit.

And the little man stands
there and stares with his little blue eyes. His long white Hair blowing
in the wind, and his cheeks, usually dyed a soft rose shimmer, are
pale with fear. He knows as surely as if someone had told him that
someone will be there soon come from the road and plunge into the
jaws of the snake is lurking.

Now, the Cavaliers prepared to repel
from the shore. To access the long rods to push into the barges in
the river, but as calls mountain lion, "Stop! For God's sake; stop!
"

They understand that it starts to get confused, because he feels
like the barge swings that can but fall involuntarily the rods, and
he sees how the power lies in wait for prey, and that one necessarily
has to come and take the plunge, displays a warning Movement on the
highway, just as if he saw someone come.

We all know that life so
often brings about a meeting like that, what followed. Who can even
wonder, may wonder about the fact that the pensioners on the very
morning of the on the night followed, in which the Countess Elisabeth
on the walk go to the East has to lie with their barges on the ferry
that crosses the Klarelf. But it would but are still far been strange
if the young woman found no help in their distress would have. It
happened just so that she, who had traveled all night, just in the
Moment on the ferry came when the Cavaliers were about to be launched
from the shore. They remained motionless, watching her as she spoke
to the Fährknecht who made his boat afloat. She was wearing peasant
clothing, and they had no idea who she was. But she still stared at
her, because they seemed so familiar. As they stood there and spoke
with the Fährknecht, was A dust cloud on the road visible, and came
out of the dust cloud out a large yellow Carriage.

There was silence for an instant, then a curious gnawing sound punctuated with quick, low,
metallic rasps as of a ratchet at work--and upon Jimmie Dale for a moment came stunned dismay.
Time, the one factor upon which he had depended, was lost to him; Clarie Archman and Gentleman
Laroque were already at work in there in that room beyond. He stood motionless, his brain whirling;
and then slowly, without a sound, an inch at a time, he began to close the door behind him.
He could see nothing; but the door connecting the two rooms was obviously open--the distinctness
with which the whispering voices had reached him was proof of that. They were working, too,
without light, or he would have got a warning gleam when he had looked through the window.
And now--what now? The picklock was shifted to his left hand, as he drew his automatic from
his pocket. There was only one answer to the question--to play the game out to the end, whatever
that end might be!

Beneath the mask his face drew into chiselled lines, as the picklock silently locked the door.
There was one exit from that inner room, and only one--through the room in which he stood.
The Tocsin had drawn an accurate word-plan of the crude, shack-like place, and now in his mind
he reconstructed it here in the darkness. The doorway into a small hall that led to the stairs
adjoined the doorway of that inner room where the two were now at work--and in that room were
no windows, it was a sort of blind cubby-hole where Niccolo Sonnino transacted his most private
business.

Jimmie Dale crept forward up the room. There was no answering creak of board or flooring, no
sound save that gnawing sound, and the rasping click of the ratchet. His place of vantage was
against the wall between the two doors--there, be could both command the exit from, and see
into, the inner room, while the doorway into the hall provided him with a means of retreat
should the necessity arise. And then, suddenly, halfway up the room, he dropped down behind
what was evidently a jeweller's workbench. A whisper, obviously Laroque's this time, came once
more from the inner room.

"Shoot the flash again!" And then, savagely: "Curse it, not on the ceiling! Can't you hold
it steady! What the devil is the matter with you!"

There was no answer. A dull glimmer of light filtered through the doorway, but from the position
in which he lay Jimmie Dale could distinguish nothing in the inner room itself.

"All right! That'll do!" Laroque growled presently.

The light went out. Jimmie Dale crept forward again. And now he gained the rear wall of the
room, and crouched down close against it between the two doorways.

Came the sound of breathing now, heavy, as from sustained exertion, making almost an undertone
of the steady click-click-click of the ratchet, and the sullen gnaw of the bit. The minutes
passed. The flashlight went on again--and Jimmie Dale strained forward. Two dark forms, backs
to him, were outlined against the face of the safe which was at the far side of the room, a
nickel dial glistened in the white ray--he could make out nothing else.

Then darkness again. And again, after a time, the flashlight. Ten, fifteen, perhaps twenty
minutes dragged by. Jimmie Dale might have been a shadow moving against the wall for all the
sound he made as he changed his cramped position; but, just below the mask, his lips were pressed
fiercely together. Would Gentleman Laroque never get through! Sonnino was not only likely to
return in a very few minutes now, but was almost certain to do so. Under his breath Jimmie
Dale cursed the gangster's bungling methods--and not for their crudity alone. His first impulse
had been to surprise the two, hold them up at the revolver point, but the result of such an
act would have been abortive, for the disfigured safe would stand a mute, incontrovertible
witness to the fact that an attempt to force it had been made--and, whether it was actual robbery
or attempted robbery that was proved against the son, it in no way deflected the blow aimed
at David Archman. And, besides, there was the letter! If he, Jimmie Dale, had been in time
even to have prevented Gentleman Laroque from sinking a bit into the safe, the letter would
have counted not at all--but now it counted to the extent that it literally meant life and
death. Who had it? Not Clarie Archman--that was certain. And the Tocsin had not said--obviously
because she, too, had been in the dark in that respect. Therefore he could only wait, watch
and follow every move of the game throughout the rest of the night, if necessary! It was the
only course open to him; the letter, not the robbery, was paramount now.

A curious, muffled, metallic thump, mingled with a quick, low-breathed, triumphant oath, came
suddenly from the inner room--and then Laroque's voice, eager, the words clipped off as though
in feverish elation:

"There she is! One nice little job--eh? Well, come on--shoot your light into her, and let's
take a look at the Christmas tree!"

The flashlight's ray flooded the interior of the open safe. Laroque, on his knees, laughed
suddenly, and thrust his hand inside.

"What did I tell you, eh?" he chuckled. "I got the straight tip, eh? Four thousand, if there's
a cent!"

Laroque began to remove what were evidently packages of banknotes from the safe--but Jimmie
Dale was no longer watching the scene. He had edged suddenly back into the doorway of the hall,
and was listening now intently. A footstep--he could have sworn he had caught the sound of
a footstep--seemed to have come from just outside the front window. But all was still again.
Perhaps he had been mistaken. No! Slight as was the sound, he heard, unmistakably now, a key
grate in the lock--and then, stealthily, the front door began to open.

A bewildered look came into Jimmie Dale's face, as he retreated further back into the hallway
itself now. It was probably Sonnino; but why did Sonnino come stealing into his own house like--well,
like any one of the three predatory guests already there before him? And then Jimmie Dale's
face cleared. Of course! From the window the glow of the flashlight in the inner room could
be seen. Sonnino was forewarned, and undoubtedly--forearmed!

The front door closed softly, so softly that had Jimmie Dale, supersensitive as his hearing
was, not been intent upon it, it would have escaped him. The glow from the inner room, faint
as it was, threw into shadowy relief a man's form tiptoeing forward--and then a board creaked.

"What's that!" came in a wild whisper from Clarie Archman.

"Got 'em again!" Laroque snapped back. "You make me tired!"

"Let's get out of here! Let's get out of here--quick!" Clarie Archman's voice, not so low now,
held a tone of frantic appeal.

"Nix!" said Laroque, in a vicious sneer. "Not till the job's done! D'ye think I'm going to
spend half an hour cracking a safe and take a chance of missing any bets? We've got the coin
all right, but there ought to be one or two of Sonnino's sparklers lying around in some of
these drawers, and--" It was a wheel that rotated constantly and if it is turned,
gleamed like the spokes of fire, and light and heat went out of it. Kevenhiiller had a sun set.
When he came to the workshop, the night was so bright that the sparrows began to chirp and the
clouds turned red as sunrise.

It was the most wonderful invention. - No darkness, no cold it would from now on everything Earth
type. He was flattered when he thought up the idea. The sun of the day should still up and go
down, but when it disappeared, should be thousands upon thousands of its fire wheels on the
landing flare, and the air was trembling with heat as on the hottest summer days. Since one should
mature grain under the stars of the high winter harvest, strawberries and blueberries should
cover the forest hills throughout the year; Ice should never hit
the water in chains.

Now that the invention was ready, they should create a new earth. Firewheel should be be a fur for
the poor and a sun for the miners.

It should give the factories blowing force of nature - now from fall to spring had to sleep
- give new life to create a better humanity, happy existence.

But he knew only too well that all dreams were, and that the favor he never allow would be to duplicate
Firewheel. And in his anger and his desire for revenge, he thought,
that he wanted to kill her and then he could hardly remember what
he did.

He went up into the house, and on the floor, just below the stairs,
he turned the wheel of fire.

It was his intention that the house should catch fire and burn the monster.

Then he went back to his shop and sat there and listened.

In the yard was noise and shouting. Now we began to notice that a deed executed was.

Yes, it only runs and screams and ringing the bells!

But now it burns, the grace, to have her on a bed of velvet and silk!

Whether they are in agony overcomes whether it is running from one
room to another?

Oh, what will flame, the green silk, how will play the Flames in the thick hair! Take courage,
her Flames!

Take courage! Fanget it, lights it, verbrennet the witch! Do not be afraid before her magic words,
her gluten! Let them burn! There are people who for their sake her life had to burn!

Bells were ringing, rattling cars, spraying came thither, water buckets from the lake were
served up, bring people from all villages stormed. There was a screaming and wailing and Command; roofs
fell down, there was a terrible crackling and roaring of flames.

Nothing but Kevenhiiller brought out its version, and he sat on the
Haublock and rubbed his Hands.

Then he heard a crash, as if the sky fell down and he jumped up joyfully.

"Now is it done, "he exclaimed. can "Now they can not escape, now
it is under the beams crushed or consumed by the flames.

Now it is finished! "

And he thought of Ekeby honor and power, which had to be sacrificed
to get them out of the world .

Create The majestic halls, where so much joy and happiness had lived, the rooms that echoed
had the pleasure of women, the tables that had bent almost to delicious Courts, the precious old
furniture, silver and porcelain, which are never obtained again could ...

And then he went with a cry in the air.

His wheel of fire, its sun, the model of it all depended, he had not placed under the stairs,
so that it may cause fire should?

Kevenhiiller looked at himself, petrified with terror.

"Am I mad?"

He said. "How could I do such a thing?"

At the same moment did the locked door to the garage and the Green-Clad
entered.

Since the Grace stood in the doorway, gentle and smiling.

Her green dress had no spot nor blemish, not a burning smell clung to her thick hair. She was so,
as he in the days seen his youth in the marketplace to Karlstad, had dragged its tail between
their feet, and led all the wild and the scent of the forest with it.

"Fire Ekeby now," she said, laughing.

Kevenhiiller had brought the big hammer and was about to throw her on the head, but as he saw
that she held his wheel of fire in his hand.

"See what I saved for you," she said.

Kevenhiiller threw himself down on his knees before her.

"You have destroyed my car, you have broken my wings and have destroyed my life. Now do me a favor,
mercy on me! "

She climbed up onto the bench and sat there just so young and so mischievous,
as then, as he had seen for the first time in the marketplace to Karlstad.

"I

see you know who I am," she said.

"I know you, and I've always known," said the unhappy man, "You are
the Genius.

But give me free now. Take your gift from me! Take the wonderful gifts from me! Let me to be an
ordinary person! Why do you persecute me? Why did you destroy me? "

"Goal!" Said the bounty. "I did not deliberately evil.

I gave you a great reward but I can take you back when it pleases
thee not.

But remember you well - you'll regret it! "

"No, no, 'he cried," take the miraculous gifts from me! "

"First you have to destroy it here," she said and threw the wheel of fire in front of him to the
ground.

He thought not. He swung the big hammer on the bright fire, sun, nothing was more than ugly
Zauberkram if they are not applied for the benefit of thousands could. The sparks flew around
in the forge, flames and shards danced around him, and then was his last work of art there in ruins.

"Yes,
I take my gift from you," said the bounty.

As she stood in the door to leave, and the glow of the fire out there
about her form was poured, he saw her after the last time.

Beautiful than ever before, she appeared to him and not so malicious, only strict and proud.

"Goal!" She said, "I told you ever forbidden to convert into your art works of others? What I kept was to define,
as the man of genius to keep in front of the hardships of the craft? "

And then she left. Kevenhiiller was mad for several days. Then he
was again like a ordinary person.

The main building of Ekeby was burned down. People had not been harmed. But it was a great grief to
the pensioners that the hospitable house where they so much good had enjoyed, should suffer for
their time so much damage.

Oh - their children later times! If I had been there or you who's favor in the marketplace If
you were to meet Karlstad! Do not you think that I would have gone into the woods and called would
"favor, grace! I'm the one Kevenhiiller, "But who sees these days? Anyone who complains in our times
about having too much get their gifts?

The market Broby

On the first Friday in October, the large market of Broby that lasts
eight days.

This is the biggest festival in the whole year. The same goes great battles and baking in each
household advance, then the new winter clothes ready and can be tightened for the first time; the
hard food - cheese cake and donut - available all day on the table,
and the liquor rations are doubled but the work rests.

In each farm will be a celebration celebrated, and the servants and day laborers to take their
wages and consider exactly what on the market should be purchased. From afar, people come
in small flocks the road walked along the knapsack on his back, his stick in his hand. Many also have
their Drive cattle to market, to sell it in these hard times. Small, stubborn Bull calves and
goats, the rest and set before the front legs stiff, manage the owner
Not much and the audience much amusement.

The guest rooms on the estates are fully welcome Guests, it is exchanged news, prices for livestock
and inventory will be considered. The children go hand in hand and dream of fair gifts.

And on the first market day - as teeming as the Broby hills and on the whole great Marketplace
of market visitors! There are built tents where merchants from the cities have spread their
wares, while Dalecarlians Westgotländer and their belongings on long Series of "slices" pile,
which flutters on the white canvas tent. Acrobat, organ- and blind violinist is in abundance,
as fortune tellers, breast seller sugar, brandy gift.

Behind the huts of stone and wooden dish is lightened. Onions and horseradish, Apples and
pears are offered for sale by the gardeners of the great manors. Long distances the market place
with red-brown, interior tinned copper utensils white cover.

But on the sales you can remember well that in Svartsjö and Bro and in other towns on Löfsee need
help. Trading in the tents and on the disc is just bad.

The most sales are made on the large cattle market, for many a must sell cow and horse, to
get themselves through the winter. There is also the wild, exciting horse exchange instead.

It's funny ago in the market Broby. If you have only money to a few spirits, so to maintain the humor
already. But not the spirit alone is the author of Joy. If people in the remote forest cabins
to the market place with its undulating Crowds come down, they are
initially quite shocked when the noise of screaming, laughing crowds
listening, but only if they are right in the swarm, they are as it
were intoxicated the joy, wild roaring of the carnival life.

Well there is much trade between so many people, but that's hardly the main thing. The most important
thing is to sit down with a circle of good friends in a booth and
in mutton sausage to maltreat lard biscuits and brandy, or to persuade
his girl, a hymn book and adopt a silk cloth, or market to buy gifts
for the children at home.

All who are not forced to stay at home and the house and yard are
to respect, to Broby come.

There are gentlemen of Ekeby and Köhler Nygaard, horse traders from Norway, Finns from the great
forests and vagrants from all over the world.

Now and then collects all the raging sea in a vortex, which is in rings to make a heart appear.
No one knows what is in the middle, until a Some police officers
break through the crowd to make a fight to an end or a fallen Car
up again.

And next moment, the crowd gathers again - to a merchant, the haggling with a lively girl.

Around
noon starts the big fight. The farmers have taken it into his head, that the use of scarce
Westgotländer yardstick, it first creates quarrels and cursing to
"their" discs, but soon it goes on to blows.

For the many who in those Days of nothing but hardship and misery saw it was a relief, three
hit hard again to, no matter who or what you hit. And as soon see the strong and aggressive,
that a fight in progress, they rush in from all sides.

The pensioners do break even in the ball to their own way to make peace, and the Dalecarlians
, hurry to help the Westgotländern.

The strong Måns from Fors is the most eager in the matter. He is drunk, and angry He also,
and now he has overturned a Westgotländer and started thrashing him, on the cry for help but collapsed
and caused a compatriot will compel the strong Måns, his to have
prey drive.

Because of the strong rips Måns down all the goods of one of the discs, take the disc itself, a
cubit wide and eight yards long and made of thick planks there, and
begins to swing it as a weapon around.

The strong Måns is a terrible man. He kicked a wall in the prison Filipstad , and he could
lift a boat from the lake on the shoulder and carry her home. One can probably understand that the
whole crowd, and all Westgotländer take to flight, when he the heavy
disk thrashes about.

But the strong Måns crash behind them and propose straight on. He pays no attention more on friend
or foe, he only wants someone to the strike, he can, now that he has a gun.

The people desperately flee from him. Men and women scream and run. But as it is possible to
escape from the women - they have so their little children by the hand! The stalls and cars blocking
the road. Cows and oxen, which are based on the noise gone wild prevent their escape.

In a corner of the stalls is a crowd jammed women, and rushes on the Giant going on. Is he still
a Westgotländer to see in their midst! In pale, shuddering Afraid to take the women, contrary
to the attack, and creep along under the killing blow.

But when the whistle disc falls on them, their force by the extended upwards Arms of a man
broken. A man is not crawling along, he's in the middle Knot of people erect, a man has collected
from free will the blow to to save the many.

Women and children are standing there unharmed. A man has the power of the Broken shock, but
now he lies unconscious on the floor.

The strong Måns raises his disk to not to weiterzustürmen. has the look of the man met him,
as the disc fell on his head, and this view has it with Paralysis struck. It can bind and carry
on without resistance.

But with lightning haste the rumor spread throughout the market that
the strong Måns slew Captain Lennart. It is said that he, who was
the friend of the people died, is to save women and defenseless children.

And
it is still in the square, where life just now, then rushed in a wild
frenzy: trade increased, the fights to hear that solve Festschmäuse
in the refreshment stalls on, attracted by the vainly Acrobat to viewers.
The friend of the people is dead, the People have grief. In deep silence
the crowd all together to the place where he fell is. He lies stretched
on the ground, completely unconscious, no wound is visible, only the
skull is flattened like.

Some men lift him carefully on the disc,
which has the hero can fall. They believe to note that he is still
alive.

"Where should we take him?" They ask each other.

"Home,"
replied a harsh voice from the crowd.

Yes, you good men carries him
home! Lift him on your shoulders and carry him to Home! He has been
God's mercy, he is Herget rubbed against his breath like a feather.
Carry him home now!

The wounded head is on the hard bunk in prison,
on the bundle of hay in the barn rested. Let's get it home now and
resting on a soft pillow! No fault has He suffered shame and sorrow,
he is driven away from his own door. Carry him now after Home! A restless
refugees it was, he walked in the ways of God, where he could find,
the land was his desire but this home, the door closed to him God
had. Carry him home! Maybe his home is the open, the dead are women
and to save children.

Now he does not like a criminal, accompanied
by tumbling boon companions, a grieving Crowd following him, he lived
in their huts, he has helped them in their suffering. Carry him home
now!

And they do. Six men lift the disc on which he lies on their
shoulders and carry him away from the marketplace. Where they come
from, people soft to the side and stand still: men expose the main,
women bow as in the church when Jesus' name is mentioned. Many cry
and wipe his eyes, while others are beginning to talk about what a
man he was, so good, so serene, so helpful, so righteous.

It is wonderful
to see how, once a tire carrier, and immediately another comes implied
chisels shoulder under the glass.

Captain Lenny comes over well in
the place where the pensioners are.

"I suppose I must go and take
care that he comes home safely," says Creutz and Beer leaves his place
on the road side, in order to go after Helgesater and follow his example
even some.

The market place is nearly empty, and all give Captain
Lennart escorted to Helgesater. One must see to it that he comes home.

It was well known ground to Jimmie Dale--as a boy he had played here in the Archman's backyard,
played here with Clarie Archman. His face masked again, he moved swiftly toward the rear of
the house. There was still Clarie Archman. What would the boy do? Jimmie Dale's hand, a picklock
in it again, clenched fiercely. It was a hell's choice they had given the boy--to rob his father,
or go down himself, and drag his father with him, in ruin and disgrace! What would the boy
do? Jimmie Dale was working silently at the back door now. It opened, and he stepped inside.
He was here well ahead of the other, there was no possibility, granting even the start the
boy had had, that Clarie Archman could have made the trip uptown in the same time. It was more
likely that the boy might even linger a long while in misery and indecision before he came
home. That was why he, Jimmie Dale, had dismissed Benson and the car for the night, and--

With a mental jerk, Jimmie Dale focused his mind on his immediate surroundings. It was dark;
there were no lights in any part of the house, but he needed none, not even his flashlight--he
knew the house as well and as intimately as his own. He was in the rear hall now, and now he
opened a door, paused cautiously as the dull yellow glow from a dying grate fire illuminated
the room faintly, then stepped inside. It was the Archman library, the room where David Archman
did a great deal of his work at night A desk stood at the lower end of the room; and in the
corner near the portiered windows was the lawyer's safe.

Jimmie Dale closed the door, moved toward the window, drew the portieres aside, released the
window catch, silently raised the window itself--it was only a drop a few feet to the yard!
And then Jimmie Dale sat down at the desk.

A clock somewhere in the house struck a single note--that would be halfpast one. Time passed
slowly, interminably. The clock struck again--two o'clock. And then suddenly Jimmie Dale rose
from his chair, and slipped into the window recess behind the portieres. The front door closed,
a step came along the hall, the library opened, closed again--and Clarie Archman, his face
as the flickering firelight played upon it, like a face of death, came forward into the room.

For a moment the boy held motionless beside the desk, his eyes fixed in a sort of horrible
fascination upon the safe--and then, slowly, he moved toward it, and dropped on his knees before
it, and his fingers began to twirl the knob of the dial. His fingers shook, and he was a long
time at his task--and then the handle turned, and the safe was unlocked, but Clarie Archman
did not open the door. Instead, he drew back suddenly, and rose swaying to his feet, and covered
his face with his hands.

"I can't! Oh, my God, I--I can't!" he moaned. He lowered his hands after a moment, and gazed
around him unseeingly, a queer, ghastly look came into his face. "I--I guess--I guess there's
only one--one way to--to beat them," he whispered. "One way to beat them, and--"

The package in Jimmie Dale's hand dropped suddenly to the floor, he wrenched the portieres
aside, and, with a low, sharp cry, sprang forward. The boy had taken a revolver from his pocket,
and was lifting it to his head. Jimmie Dale struck up the other's hand--but in time only to
deflect the shot; too late to prevent it being fired. There was a flash in mid-air, the roar
of the report went racketing through the silent house, and the revolver, spinning from the
other's hands, struck against the wall across the room.

And then Jimmie Dale had the boy by the shoulders, and was shaking him violently. Clarie Archman
was like one stunned, numbed, and bereft of his senses.

"It's all right--you're clear! Do you hear--try and understand--you're clear!" Jimmie Dale
whispered fiercely. "Here's your letter!" He thrust it into the other's hand. "Destroy it!
Those men--Sonnino--Barca--will say nothing. You don't owe anybody any money--that bucket-shop
was in the game with the rest, and--" Cries, voices, were coming from above now; and Jimmie
Dale, like a flash, turned from the boy, leaped for the safe, wrenched the door open, reached
in with both hands, and, snatching up an armful of the contents, spilled books and papers on
the floor. He was back beside the boy in an instant. "Listen! You heard some one in here as
you entered the house--you came into the room--you caught me in the act--you fired--you missed.
And now--fight! Fight--pull yourself together--fight. They are coming!"

He caught the boy around the waist, and the two, locked together, reeled this way and that
about the room. A chair, deliberately kicked over by Jimmie Dale, crashed to the floor. The
cries drew nearer. Footsteps came racing madly down the stairs--and then the door of the library
burst open, and David Archman, in pajamas, dashed through the doorway, and without a second's
hesitation, made for the two struggling forms--and Jimmie Dale, releasing his hold upon the
boy, suddenly sent the other staggering backwards full into David Archman, checking David Archman's
rush--and, turning, sprang for the window, snatched up his package, hurled himself over the
sill, dropped to the ground, and, racing for the fence, climbed it, and made the lane, just
as a shot, from David Archman, no doubt, was fired from the window.

A moment more, and Jimmie Dale, his mask in his pocket, had emerged from the lane, and was
walking nonchalantly along to the street corner; another, and he had boarded a street car--but
under Jimmie Dale's coat was a most suspicious bulge. Conscious of this, he left the street
car a few blocks farther along, when he was far enough away to be certain that he would have
eluded all pursuit--and walked the rest of the distance to Riverside Drive. If he had escaped
unscathed, the package of banknotes had not--it was his coat that shielded them from view,
not the wrappers, for the wrappers had been torn almost entirely away in his hasty exit over
the fence.

He reached his home, and mounted the steps cautiously. There was Jason to consider--Jason with
his lovable pernicious habit of sitting up for his master. Jason must not see those banknotes,
that was obvious, and if Jason--yes!--Jimmie Dale was peering now through the monogrammed lace
that covered the plate glass doors in the vestibule--yes, Jason was still sitting up. And then
Jimmie Dale smiled that strange whimsical smile of his. Jason was still sitting up--asleep
in the hall chair.

Softly, without a sound, Jimmie Dale opened the front door, entered, passed the old man, and
went up the stairs. In his dressing room, he hid away the package that tomorrow, or at the
first opportunity, would enrich some deserving charity, and, as silently as he had come up
the stairs, he descended them again, passed by the old man again, and went out to the street
once more. There was just one reason why Jason, tired out and asleep, sat there--only one--because
Jason, old Jason, faithful, big-hearted Jason, loved his Master Jim.

Into Jimmie Dale's eyes there came a mist. Perhaps that was why, because he could not see clearly,
that he stumbled on his way up the steps again; perhaps that was why he made so much noise
that it was Jason who opened the door and held out his hands for Jimmie Dale's coat and hat.

"What!" said Jimmie Dale severely. "Sitting up again, Jason? Jason, go to bed at once!"

"Yes, sir," said Jason. "Thank you, sir. Thank you, Master Jim, sir--I will."

CHAPTER XVI

ONE CHANCE IN TEN

It was three nights later. Old Jason had placed a tray with after-dinner coffee and a liqueur
set on the table at Jimmie Dale's elbow--that was fully an hour ago, and both coffee and liqueur
were untouched. Things were not going well. Apart entirely from all lack of success where the
Tocsin was concerned, things were not going well. The fate of Frenchy Virat, the fate of the
Wolf, and, added to this, the Gray Seal's intervention in the plans and purposes of one Gentleman
Laroque and certain gentlemen still higher up than Laroque, had not passed unmarked or unnoticed
in the underworld. And now in the underworld a strange, ominous and far-reaching disquiet reigned.
It was an underworld rampant with suspicion, mad with fury, more dangerous than it had ever
been before.

Jimmie Dale's hand reached abstractedly into the pocket of his dinner jacket for his cigarette
case. He lighted a cigarette, leaned back once more in the big, leather-upholstered lounging
chair, and his eyes, half closed, strayed introspectively around the luxuriously appointed
room, his own particular den in his Riverside Drive residence. Once, a very long while ago,
years ago, so long ago now that it seemed as though it must have been in some strange previous
incarnation, back in those days when the Tocsin had first come into his life, and when he had
known her only as the author of those mysterious letters, those "calls to arms" to the Gray
Seal, she had written: "Things are a little too warm, aren't they, Jimmie? Let's let them cool
for a year."

A blue thread curled lazily upward from the tip of the cigarette. Jimmie Dale's eyes fastened
mechanically on the twisting, wavering spiral, followed it mechanically as it rose and spread
out into filmy, undulating, fantastic shapes--and the strong, square jaw set suddenly hard.
It was not so very strange that those words should have come back to him to-night! Things were
"warm" now--and he could not let them "cool" for a year!

"Warm!" He smiled a little mirthlessly. The comparison was very slight! Then, at the beginning,
at the outset of the Gray Seal's career, the police, it was true, had shown a certain unpleasant
anxiety for a closer acquaintanceship, but that was about all. To-day, lashed on and mocked
by a virulent press, goaded to madness by their own past failures to "get" the Gray Seal, to
whose door they laid a hundred crimes and for whom the bars of a death cell in Sing Sing was
the goal if they could but catch their prey, the police, to a man, were waging a ceaseless
and relentless war against him; and to-day, joining hands with the police, the underworld in
all its thousand ramifications, prompted by fear, by suspicion of one another, reached out
to trap him, and to deal out to him a much more speedy, but none the less certain, fate than
that prescribed by the statutes of the law!

He shook his head. It could not go on--indefinitely. The role was too hard to play; the dual
life, in a sort of grim, ironical self-mockery, brought even in its own successful interpretation
added dangers and perils with each succeeding day. As it had been with Larry the Bat, the more
he now lived Smarlinghue the more it became difficult to slough off Smarlinghue and live as
Jimmie Dale; the more Smarlinghue became trusted and accepted in the inner circles of the underworld,
the more he became a figure in those sordid surroundings, and the more dangerous it became
to "disappear" at will without exciting suspicion, where suspicion, as it was, was already
spread into every nook and corner of the Bad Lands, where each rubbed shoulders with his fellow
in the lurking dread that the other was--the Gray Seal!

The police were no mean antagonists, he made no mistake on that score; but the peril that was
the graver menace of the two, and the greater to be feared, was--the underworld. And here in
the underworld in the last few days, here where on every twisted, vicious lip was the whisper,
"Death to the Gray Seal," there had come even another menace. He could not define it, it was
intuition perhaps--but intuition had never failed him yet. It was an undercurrent of which
he had gradually become conscious, the sense of some unseen, guiding power, that moved and
swayed and controlled, and was present, dominant, in every den and dive in crimeland. 

     Loved you, baby, but never You shall hear
     the voice of love. Of the heart forces
     the same tired children In the school of
     hard bench they sit, Longing for freedom
     and play, But no one calls out more! They
     sit like sentries, the forgotten,
     No one calls out more!
     

     Child, he's gone now And
     with it all love and bliss of love, He
     whom you loved, how he taught you To fly
     with wings in the heavens. He whom you
     loved when he'd shown you The only airflow sensor
     in place of the flooded city: He went from there, he
     who alone Opening the door of your
     heart understand.

     
     At one, I just want to ask you, beloved: "Oh, toss
     and turn, never the burden of hate on me!" The weakest of all that
     is weak, is it not a human heart? How could
     it live under the gnawing pain, That another is a pain enough?

     
     
     O my beloved, will you kill me Since you did not strike
     dagger, buy no poison, no rope. Let me know that you
     want, I entschwände From the Earth to bloom corridor, from the kingdom
of life - And fall into the grave I want.

     
     
     You gave me the life of life. You gave
     me love. And you take back your gift. Oh, I know
     - But I do not give up hatred instead!

I still do love life.

Oh, remember! But I know that burden of hate is killing me.

The young Countess

The young countess is sleeping until ten clock in the morning and want fresh bread every day
on have your breakfast table.

The young countess makes fine embroidery and read poems. On Cooking and weaving, she does not understand
himself. The young countess is a spoiled child.

But she is happy and leaves her gaiety radiate to everything and everyone. Man forgives her
like the long morning sleep and fresh baked goods, because it is
wasteful in their Benefits to the poor and kind to everyone.

The father of the young countess is a Swedish nobleman who all his life in Italy used to have because
the beautiful country and beautiful of his daughters has him tied up there. When Count Henrik
Dohna traveled to Italy, he was hospitably received at the house
of the nobleman been, and had made acquaintance with the daughters
and eventually one of these as Wife brought home to Sweden.

She, who has always spoken Swedish and brought up is that she loves everything that Swedish
is located well up here in bear country. She swings so happy in the dance and thus takes part
in all the pleasures of love, the long Löfsee orbit, we believe that should they have always
lived above.

But one thing she does not quite - Countess to be. There is nothing stiff, no condescending dignity
to this happy young woman.

Especially the old men were delighted by the young countess. It was very strange what a stone
they had with them in the board. If they had met her at a ball, one could be sure that all
of them, both the judge of how the Munkerud Probst in Bro and Melchior
Sinclaire and the captain of Berga, their wives behind in the deepest
Trust told that if they met the young countess, thirty, forty years
have - so -

"Yes, it was then not yet" born, say the old women.

And next time, when they see the young countess, they tease her by
saying that it robs them of the hearts of their men.

The old women they look at a little worried. Think of the Countess Marta. The was just as happy
and well loved, when she first came to Borg, and was out of it a vain, pleasure-seeking become
coquette, now thought of nothing more than how to could have fun
at best.

"If she had only one man who could continue to work," say the old women.

"If she understood only set up a loom," Because that's a comfort to all the grief, devours all
interests, is to save many a woman have been.

The young countess would like to be a capable housewife. She knows nothing better than to live
as a happy wife to a good home, in the large companies it is are
often among the elderly.

"Henrik should be so glad that I was a capable housewife," she said. "Just as his own Mother.
Teaches weave me! "

As the old sighed deeply twice, once to Count Henry, who can believe
that his Mother was a capable housewife and then about the difficulties
of this young, inexperienced Initiate child in such complicated matters.

Were caught only on their technical terms and to name the different
parts of the loom, so she ran it all around in your head, let for
if by "sty" and "goose eye" and "ticking" said.

No one who sees the young countess, can help but marvel at the fact
that she has marry the stupid Henrik can count.

The poorest, who are stupid! It's hard for them where they may be. But the worst It is for the
person who is stupid and lives in Wermland.

There have been many stories about Count Henrik stupidity in circulation, and yet he was only Early
twenties. It was said, how he once Anna Stjarnhok on a Sleigh ride had entertained.

"You're beautiful, Anna," he said.

"Oh, nonsense, Henrik!"

"You're the most beautiful in Wermland are!"

"No, I'm not."

"The most beautiful, are here on the sleigh ride you all."

"No, Henrik, I'm not."

"Yes, but the best thing here are the slides you, that you can not deny it!"

No, they could not, for Count Henrik is not beautiful, he is as ugly as he stupid. It is customary
to say of him, his head, sitting on his shoulders, had to Several hundred years passed in the
family, why is the brain at the last Inherit worn. "The head has been with his father and his
grandfather in use; where would otherwise have the hair so thin, as pointed chin, the lips should
be so bloodless? "

He is always surrounded by jesters, tempt him to say stupid things, which they then redistribute
in an improved edition. A real chance for him is that he has nothing like this noted. He himself
is solemn and dignified in his whole appearance, he can not Imagine that others should not be
the same. The dignity he has gone in flesh and blood, it moves is
measured, along stiff never turns his head around without that is
not the whole body turning.

But the young Countess was quite fond of him, despite his old head. She did not so, as she looked
down there in Rome, he in his own country from such a martyr glory the stupidity is surrounded.
Down there had been something of the splendor of youth about him, and they had been united
under the most romantic circumstances with each other.

One had only young countess tell hear Count Henrik had kidnapped her. Monks and cardinals mad about the fact
that they leave the religion of their mother, where she had grown
up, and convert to Protestantism wanted.

       The whole mob was in an uproar, the palace of her father had been
besieged.

Henrik was pursued by bandits, begged her mother and sisters them to give up this marriage.
Her father was furious that the Italian pack prohibit him wanted to give his daughter, whom he wanted.
He ordered to kidnap Henry Graf them. And then, as it was impossible for her to be married at home,
and they slipped by Henrik all sorts of back alleys to the Swedish
consulate.

And after them there to their Catholic become a Protestant faith and was renounced, they were
immediately married and in a one few fiery horse-drawn closed carriage
sent north.

"The squad was we have no time, you see a well, "used to say, the young countess," and it was uncomfortable,
be married at the consulate office, instead of in one of our beautiful
churches, but otherwise Henrik could not get me.

Down there they are all hot-blooded a way as both Papa Mama and cardinals and monks, all of them
are easily excited. Therefore, everything had so secretly going on, because if people had
seen us slip away, it would be all well Both have beaten to death, just to save my soul. Henrik
they did so for a lost. "

But the young countess has her husband loved, even after their home in the quieter life have begun to Borg.
She loves him for the splendor of the old name and the famous ancestors.

There she is looking forward to see how their proximity softens his stiff nature to hear his
voice soft when he talks to her. And besides, he loved her and cuddled her, and she is now
married to him even once. The young countess can not change your mind To think that as a married woman
must love her husband.

In a way, he is also in their ideal of masculinity.

He is honest and truthful. He has never broken his pledged word. She considers him a true gentleman.

*
* * * *

On the eighth March celebrates the magistrate Scharling his birthday,
and because it is full of guests, all the hills Broby hinanziehen.

They come from east and west, known and unknown, Requested and uninvited guests! And they are all
welcome. There are enough food and drink for all, and in the dance hall is room for all the
dance-happy from seven dioceses.

The young countess was coming too. It provides in anywhere where you expect dancing and merriment
can.

But it is not as cheerful as usual, it is as if she had any idea that now the series to them is
to be carried away by the wild tales from the hunt with.

She has sat on the road and looks at the setting sun. It fell from a sky down, where they left
no gold stripes on light clouds. Bleach gray twilight with hunting, cold gusts of wind hung over
the area.

The young countess looked like day and night fought with each other and how all living in this
strife of the mighty of terror was taken. The horses raced with the last load of meaning, soon to come
under cover. The wood-cutters rushed home from the forest, the girls left the farm buildings.
In the forest thicket howled the wild animals. The day of human pleasure and delight, was
overcome.

The colors disappeared, the lights went out. Cold and ugliness wherever they looked. Also what
they had hoped, loved and worked cloaked themselves in her mind's
eye in the Gray of dawn.

It was for them as for the whole of nature, the moment of fatigue,
defeat, of powerlessness.

She thought that her own heart, which is now in the bubbling joy
of existence wrapped in gold and purple that this revelation to heart,
perhaps even his power, their world, would lose.

"Oh, fainting, weakness of my own heart," she said to herself. "You're suffocating gray dawn,
you will be once in my soul Lord! As I will Life seeing ugly and gray as it may, since my hair is
gray, my back cringe, paralyzed my brain. "

At the same moment the carriage turned into the court of the district administrator, and when
the young Countess looked up, her eyes fell on a barred window in a side building, and beyond
she saw a face with a few angry eyes.

This face was one of the major's wife Ekeby, and felt the young woman that it is now with her Joy for
this evening was over. It may well be happy, if not the grief sees and hears him mention only
as something completely removed. It is more difficult, the joy of to keep heart when one faces
the bitter need of face to face.

The Countess knows well that the magistrate has the major's wife and
that they can be locked because of the Violence should be sued, they
perpetrated in the night when the big ball Ekeby took place.

But she has not thought that they where in the farm of the president's
Verwahrsam is held so close to the ballroom, that one can look from
there to her room, so close that they must listen to dance music and
the merry noise.

And the thought of it robs the Countess all joy.

Probably dancing the waltz and quadrille Countess, she walks in the minuets and the Anglaise meaning
between every dance but they must creep to the window and look across to the side building. There's
light in the window of the major's wife, she can in the room and
go down to see.

It looks like they never rest, as they wander constantly, without
rest.

But after each Time the Countess has also looked to move their feet to dance in the cumbersome
and the laughter gets stuck in her throat.

The wife of the president's remarks that it dries the dew from the
windows to look out for can and does get at them.

"Oh, what a pity,
what a misery," she whispered to the Countess.

"I find it almost
impossible tonight," to dance gives her the Countess whispered back.

"It's
not my fault that we give a ball while it is sitting there," replied
Mrs. Scharling. She sat through all this time in Karlstad in prison,
but now I the matter to court, and therefore it has been done here
today. We were able to can not sit in the miserable prison cell, so
we have over there in the weaving accommodated. She would have stayed
in my room, my lady, if not all of these people would have come straight
here today. The Countess, they have hardly known, but all of us it
is as it were a mother and queen was. What they must think only of
us who dance here, while it is in such distress? It was fortunate
that most do not Suspecting that it sits there. "

"You should not
have" never be arrested, the Countess says sternly.

"No, that's a
true word, ma'am, but there was nothing to be on then, if not even
greater disaster to happen. No one could prohibit their own straw
Rent on fire and fortzujagen the pensioners, but the Major was hunting
them. God knows what he would have done if she were not detained.
Scharling has many had trouble from the fact that he was plugging
it. Even in Karlstad was the people Unhappy that he was not turning
a blind eye to what happened on Ekeby. But he acted so at our discretion.
"

"Now she is probably doomed," asked the countess.

"Oh no, she
is not convicted, the major's wife on Ekeby is already cleared, but
what she has in these days have to do is have been too much for them.
If they just do not lose my mind. Just think, a proud woman and then
as a criminal to be treated! I think it would have been the right
thing if you gave her permission would have to go; since they might
escape on his own. "

"Let it escape it," said the countess.

The
"can do any other, not just the mayor or his wife," whispered Mrs.
Scharling. "We must indeed be careful on them. Especially on this
night when so many of their friends are here, why keep two men guard
at her door, and which is closed and locked so that nobody can accede
to it. He stepped forward, picked
it up--and his lips drew tight together, as he read the two or three miserable lines that were
scrawled upon it:

What's left is in the middle drawer of the desk. There's only one way out now--I don't see
any other way. I thought that I could get--but what does that matter! God help me! I'm sorry.

FLEMING P. FORRESTER.

I'm sorry! It was a pitiful epitaph for a man's life! I'm sorry! Jimmie Dale's face softened
a little--the man was dead now. "I'm sorry.... Fleming P. Forrester"--he had seen that signature
on bank paper a hundred times in the old days; he had little thought ever to see it on a document
such as this!

He stared at the paper for a long time, and then, from the paper, his eyes travelled over the
desk, then shifted again to Forrester--and then, for the second time, he knelt beside the other
on the floor. For the moment, what was referred to as "being all that was left" in the middle
drawer of the desk could wait. There was another matter now. He felt hurriedly through Forrester's
vest and coat pockets--and from one of the pockets drew out a folded piece of paper. It was
not what he was looking for, but it was all that rewarded his search. He unfolded the paper.
It was dirty and crumpled, and the few lines written upon it were badly penned and illiterate:

The ante's gone up--get me? Six thousand bucks. You come across with that to-morrow morning
by ten o'clock--or I'll spill the beans. And I ain't got any more paper to write any more letters
on either--savvy? This is the last.

There was no signature. Jimmie Dale read it again--and abruptly put it in his own pocket. Yes,
he had liked Forrester--well enough for this anyway! The man might have a mother perhaps--it
would be bad enough in any case. And those other things, the empty bottle, the sheet of note
paper with its scrawled confession--what about them? He returned with a queer sort of hesitant
indecision to the desk. He had no right of course to touch them unless--

He shook his head sharply, as he pulled open the middle drawer of the desk.

"Newspapers--publicity--rotten!" he muttered savagely. "One chance in ten, and--ah!"

From the back of the drawer where it had been tucked in under a mass of papers, he had extracted
a little bundle of documents that were held together by an elastic band. He snapped off the
band, and ran through the papers rapidly. For the most part they were bonds and stock certificates
indorsed by their owners, and evidently had been held by the bank as collateral for loans.

And then suddenly Jimmie Dale straightened up, tense and alert. He had no desire, very far
from any desire to be caught here, or to figure publicly in any way in the case. The street
door had opened and closed again. Footsteps, those of three men, his acute, trained hearing
told him, sounded on the stairs. Again there came that queer, hesitant indecision as he stood
there, while his eyes travelled in swift succession from the bank's securities in his hand
to the note on the desk, to the empty bottle on the floor, to the white, upturned face of the
silent form huddled against the couch.

"One chance in ten," muttered Jimmie Dale through his set lips. "One chance in ten--and I guess
I'll take it!"

The footsteps came nearer--they were almost at the head of the stairs now. But now Jimmie Dale
was in action--swift as a flash and silent as a shadow in every movement. The bundle of securities
was thrust into his pocket, the sheet of note paper followed, and, as a knock sounded on the
door, he stooped, picked up the bottle from the floor, and darted into the adjoining room--and
in another instant he had reached the locked door and was working at it silently and swiftly
with a picklock.

CHAPTER XVII

THE DEFAULTER

At the other door the knocking still continued--and then it was opened--and there came a chorus
of low, horrified, startled cries, and the quick rush of feet into the room. He was mad as the wildest comparison, but the concept,
no one went after strange rumors spread in the neighborhood. Man told that when the clerk
came to close the church, the beard broke off at the key, because a hard rolled-up paper had been
inserted into the lock. He brought it to the provost. It was, as you can well understand,
a letter, the other in a system of World was determined.

It was whispered about what had been written on the paper. The pastor had burned it, But the clerk
had watched during the Teufelskram burned. The letters had bright red shone on a black background.
He had no choice but to read it. He read, then told is that the bad man would destroy the country,
as far as the church tower visible Broer was. He wanted to see across the forest grow over
the church. He wanted to bear and fox in the Homes of the people live to see. The fields should
lie empty, and neither dog nor Hahn you should hear more in these areas. The Evil wanted to serve
his master by about everyone brought misfortune. He had vowed.

And the people looked forward to the future of quiet desperation, because they knew that the Power
of evil was great that he hated all living things, that he wished the wilderness over the valley
spread out to see, and that he liked in the plague or famine or war his service began to drive
away anyone who loved the good and joy-making work.

Lady Music

When nothing could cheer Gosta Berling, after he helped the young
countess to flee had decided the pensioners, help with the good Lady
Music search - which is a powerful fairy, and even has some consolation.

Therefore,

they left open one evening in July, the doors to the great hall at Ekeby and remove the shutters.
Sun and air were admitted, the big red sun of the late evening, the mild, sweet-filled air of the cool
evening hour. The striped coatings were of the Made furniture, the piano was opened and the
pile of the Venetian chandeliers removed. The Golden Griffin at the white marble slabs of the
tables were again in the light flash. The white goddess dancing in the black box above the mirrors.
The different shaped flowers of silk damask shimmered in the sunset. And there were roses picked
and placed in water, the whole hall was filled with their fragrance. There were wonderful roses,
whose name no one knew who had but come from foreign lands to Ekeby. There were the yellow roses,
in whose veins the blood glows as red as in that of a man, and the cream colored with the fibrous
edge of the pink with the large leaves, the most are the extreme edge colorless as water, and
the dark red with black shadows. All roses Altringer they brought in who had come from distant
lands, around the eyes to enjoy beautiful women.

And then they create music and bring music stands and brass instruments
and bows and violins in all sizes, because now is the good woman Musika
rule and try to Ekeby, Gosta to comfort Berling.

Lady Music has selected the Oxford Symphony of Haydn good father,
and the pensioners they practice one.

Patron Julius swings the baton, and the others each play his instrument. All Cavaliers can play
- otherwise they would not cavaliers!

When everything is ready, Gösta is fetched. He is still weak and discouraged, but he is looking
forward over the magnificent hall and the beautiful music he will hear soon. For it is a known
thing that the good Lady Music for the one who suffers is the best company. She is cheerful and
happy as a child. She is fiery and engaging as a young beauty. She is good and wise as the ancients,
who lived a blessed life.

And then the Cavaliers played so softly, so soft as a whisper.

The small Rust takes the matter very seriously. He reads the notes with the glasses on Nose
kisses, gentle tones of the flute and play makes the fingers on the valves and holes. Eberhard sits
crooked bent over the violoncello, the wig is it on one ear slipped, his lips trembling with
emotion. Bergh stands proudly as his long bassoon.

Sometimes he forgets himself and uses the full force of his lungs, but Patron Julius strikes him
with the baton on his thick skull.

It's good, it's brilliant. They conjure woman Musika himself out from the dead musical notes.
Width magic cloak of your love, Lady Music, and run back to the land of Gosta Berling of joy,
where he used to live.

That there really is Gosta Berling, sitting pale and dejected, and
the old men now have fun, as if he were a child!

Now it will look sparingly with the joy in Wermland!

I know why the old people loved him, I know, how long will the winter evening and how the shadows
will creep up on the barren farms the senses. I can well understand, as it was when he came.

Imagine a Sunday afternoon before, when rest of the work and thoughts are languid. Imagine a persistent
north wind that whipped in the cold room, cold, the fire can not remedy. Imagine the solitary
tallow candle in front, constantly cleaned must be. Think of the monotonous singing of sacred
songs out of the kitchen out.

Well, and then suddenly hear sleigh bells bright, quick feet stomping
the snow outside on the steps off and enters Gosta Berling.

He laughs and pushes Kurzweil. He is life, it is heat. It opens and plays the piano so that one wonders
about the old strings. He can sing all the songs, can play all the tunes. He blessed all occupants!
Him never froze, he was never tired. The afflicted forgot his troubles when he saw him. And what
a good heart he had!

What a pity he had with the poor and weak! What a Genius he was! Yes, you had the old men will only
listen when they told him!

It might well be one such evening when he went down to Munkerud, where the good steward, lived to
the quiet, lovely home, which so little is mentioned in this story, because the Storms of
the time his luck could not shake, and where he met the pastor of Bro met.

And when the provost saw him, he put him down at the piano.

     "Sit down at the piano, Gosta
     Berling," he said, "there you
     pin on the most benefit." And then played
     and sang Gosta, and when he had played a little while, could not
sit still more people.

The old, reasonable Men and women had to get up and dance. They tingled in every limb. They could
not sit still.

And they danced around it then, and as a Bell man Gösta Sches song sang, they joined in, and
the provost, she was so old and thick, raised his clothes Rock in the air, leaped and spun in
circles as if it were a twenty-year-old girl Spann was graceful. And she sang wrong and a hoarse
voice:

"Hurrah!

See Ulla dance! At peak, Flor and fringes, With white legs, white legs, How bright appears the candles
and lamps! "

The provost and all the others laughed so heartily at her, "Yes, the
rogue there at the piano, can make fools of old people!

"

But now sits silent and sad Gosta Berling, listening woman Musikas
efforts, it encouraging.

Perhaps he would prefer to have with his grief alone, but he had yes the old men listen for
the music. He may very well see how sad it it is that he no longer can be happy. You have no pleasure
in it, men on Ekeby to be, since he has changed so much.

He believes notice may be that they become old are.

And just as the most beautiful play, he bursts into tears.

All of life seems him sad Sun He holds his hands to his face and cries. The pensioners scare.
This are not elicit the gentle, healing tears, the woman maintains Musika. He sobs like a desperate
man. Completely at a loss they lay down the instruments.

Since they are Lady Music includes the idea that they should try it
with something cheerful, Patron Julius and takes out his guitar and
begins one of his funny songs table sing.

He twisted his face and mimics cows and sheep.

But this is not a good idea of ​​the good Lady Music. Gösta changes suddenly with the clenched
fist on the table, so that Julius zusammenschrickt anxious, and then
he tells them his opinion.

"If I am a wretched outcast, who is staying only here on earth in order to cause mischief,"
he says, "so it should gentlemen not yet euern mocked my pain. Better People than you would
probably be wary. "

He is unjust. He knows very well himself, but he can not control himself. And then He is sitting
in silence and shame. The others are silent. They are deeply hurt, But what use it can to
defend themselves? Even the good woman Musika, the Gosta Berling Sun loves is about to lose heart,
but then you suddenly think of that they still has a tremendous warriors among the knights.

This
is the gentle mountain lions, who lost his fiancee in the muddy stream and now Gosta Berling's
slave - more than any of the others. He sneaks now after the Piano out. He circled it shyly,
touches it gently, stroking with a soft hand over the keys.

At the top of Kavalier wing has a large mountain lion, wooden table, on which he a keyboard
painted and provided a music stand. There he can sit for hours and the fingers on the black
and white keys slide. There, he practices scales and etudes, and there He plays his Beethoven. Lady
Music has stood by him with her special grace, that many of the thirty-six
sonatas he has been able to write off.

But the old man never dared to another instrument than on the wooden
table.

In front of the piano, he has a terrible fear. The lures him, but he scares even more from.
The shrill instrument on which so many polkas are played, is it a sanctuary. He never dared
to touch it. This wonderful thing with the many strings that the
works the great master can give life!

He needs only the ear it down, just hears he roar Scherzo and Andante in it. Yes, the piano
is the right altar on which women Musika is to be worshiped. But he has never played on a piano.
He himself is yes never so rich that he can buy one, and to play in this, he has never Had
courage. The major's wife has also been not very inclined to catch up to him.

He has probably heard jingle polkas and waltzes and melodies Bellmannsche
it.

But with so unholy music, the magnificent instrument could indeed be only one sound unclean
of itself, could only moan.

No, when Beethoven was, it would sound until his real bright sound . Let

Now he thinks that the time for Beethoven and for him that might come. He wants Courage , Take
to touch the sanctuary, and his young master and commander of the slumbering Euphony enjoy.

He
sits down and begins to play. He is very insecure and dazed, but he sensed through a few cycles
through, looking to find the right sound, frowns, begins again -
and then covered her face with her hands and began to weep bitterly.

Yes, dear Lady Music, it's hard for him. The sanctuary is not a sanctuary. There are no clear,
bright tones in it and dream, there's not a dull, mighty thunder,
no tremendous roaring hurricane.

None of the endless melody which the air of Paradise through which flow is left there. It is
an old rickety piano and nothing else.

But as Lady Music is the clever Colonel a hint.

It notes with Rust and they go into the Cavalier wings and lion's get the table with painted buttons.

"Look
here, mountain lions," said Beer Creutz, when they return. "Since you have your piano Play Now
Gösta something before. "

Since lion's tears dry up, he sits down and plays his young, troubled friends Beethoven before.
Now he should be happy again.

The head of the old man's sound the most vivid colors.

He can not believe otherwise than that Gösta hear how well he plays tonight. Now he has overcome
all difficulties. He performs his runs and trills without the slightest complaint. He wished that
the master himself could hear him.

The longer he plays, the more they increase his enthusiasm. He hears every single sound with
supernatural strength.

"Suffering, suffering," he plays, "why should I not love you? Because your lips are cold and your
cheeks pale, because your embrace suffocated, petrify your eyes?

"

"Sorry, sorry, you're one of those proud, beautiful women whose love is hard to win, but burns
more than any other. You outcast, I put up on my heart and loved you. I caress you, until
the cold escaped from your limbs and your love has filled me with happiness.

"Oh, how I suffered! Oh, how I have longed since I lost the one I first loved! It was a dark
night in me, dark night around me.

I was absorbed in prayer, in endless, outrageous prayers. The sky was closed my long wait.
No good Spirit came from the star-studded firmament down to comfort me.

"But my desire tore the concealing curtain. You came to me on herabgeschwebt a bridge of moonbeams.
You came in light shine, beloved, and with smiling lips.

Merry spirits up surrounded. They carried wreaths of roses. They played on the zither and the
Flute. It was a happiness to see you.

"But you disappeared, you disappeared! And there was no bridge, and no lunar rays for me when I wanted
to follow you.

On the ground I lay, wingless, bound to the dust. My Action was like the roar of a wild animal,
like the rumbling thunder of the sky. I wanted to you send the flash
as a messenger.

I cursed the green earth. May fire consume their growth, Pest exterminate the people! I called
the death and the abyss.

I thought the pain in the eternal fire would have to be hostility toward the end of me.

"Suffering, suffering because it was that you were my friend!

Why should I not love you like you love these proud, strong women
whose love is hard to win, but more burns than the other? "

He played
the poor mystics. He sat there, beaming with enthusiasm, while the
wonderful Sounds in his ears sounded convinced that it must also listen
to Gosta and find solace.

Gösta sat there and looked at him. At first
he was angry about this new comedy, but gradually it was milder. He
was irresistible, the old man as he sat there and enjoyed his Beethoven.
Gosta and could not help thinking that this man, who was now as gentle
and carefree, in Sorry been sunk, that he had lost his beloved. And
now he sat there, beaming Fair, on his wooden table. It took no longer
to a man happy to make.

He felt humiliated. Gosta, he said to himself,
you no longer can tolerate and ? Suffer You who are hardened of your
life in poverty, thou that every tree in the forest, every hill in
the field have heard preach renunciation and patience, you, who, in
a country are grown, where the winter is severe and the summer mean,
you have to endure the art because everything about snowboarding?

Oh,
Gosta, a man has everything that life has to offer, with brave hearts
and smiling lips bear, or he is not a man devoid of as much as you
want if you lost the beloved did so to let your inner conscience gnaw
and consume, but show up as a man, as Wermländer true! Let your eyes
shine with delight and meet your friends with cheerful Words.

Life
is hard, nature is hard. They both produce courage and joy to counterbalance
to their hardness, otherwise no one would be able to endure.

Courage
and joy! It is as if these two the first duties of life. Did you never
been denied and you must not do it now.

Are you less than a mountain
lion sitting there on his wooden piano, than all the others Cavaliers,
the brave, the reckless, the eternally young? You know that none of
the suffering has spared them.

And then you see Gösta them. But
if Forrester had written it, he must of necessity have written it very recently, certainly
after he had telephoned, that is, within an hour; whereas, if it had been written by some one
else and brought there, if it was forged, if it was murder and not suicide, the note must have
taken long and painstaking effort to prepare beforehand. That was the question that old Kronische,
the chemist, was to have answered, a question that was very much in the cunning old fox's line--did
the condition of the ink show that the note had been written within the hour? It was a very
simple question for old Kronische, the man would have answered it instantly, for even to him,
Jimmie Dale, the writing had not looked fresh. But there was no need of old Kronische now!
And he, Jimmie Dale, understood now, too, the reason for Forrester's appeal over the telephone.
In some way Forrester, without going to the bank itself, had learned that the bank examiners
had suddenly put in an appearance, had either discovered or deduced that something was wrong,
and had realised that should Suviney's demand for money, or Suviney's blackmailing story become
known, it would appear as damning evidence of a past record looming up to point suspicion toward
him now. That was what he had meant by saying he needed financial help.

Jimmie Dale slipped suddenly into a lane, edged along the wall of the tenement that made the
corner, pushed aside a loose board in the fence, passed into the little courtyard beyond, and,
still hugging the shadows of the building, opened a narrow French window, and stepped through
into a room. He was in the Sanctuary.

CHAPTER XVIII

ALIAS ENGLISH DICK

But Jimmie Dale lost no time in the Sanctuary. In the darkness he crossed the room, and from
behind the movable section of the baseboard possessed himself of a pocket flashlight, and a
small, but extremely serviceable, steel jimmy--and in a moment more was back in the lane, and
from the lane again was heading still deeper into the heart of the East Side.

English Dick! A twisted smile crossed his lips. Well as he knew the underworld and its sordid
citizenship, he might be forgiven for not knowing English Dick. The man's reputation had reached
into every corner of the Bad Lands, it was true; but it had not been known that the man himself
was on this side of the water. And that the secret had been kept spoke with grim and deadly
significance for the power and cunning of the master brain to which the Tocsin had referred,
for English Dick was known as the most famous forger in Europe, the best in his line, and as
such, from afar, was worshipped as a demi-god by the underworld of New York.

Block after block of dark, ill-lighted streets Jimmie Dale traversed, until, perhaps fifteen
minutes after he had left the Sanctuary, he swerved suddenly for the second time that night
into a lane. He might not have known English Dick, but he knew Reddy Mull, and he knew Marloff's!
Reddy Mull was a gangster, a gunman pure and simple, whose services were at the call of the
highest bidder; and Marlopp's was a pool and billiard hall--to the uninitiated. Marlopp's,
however, if one had ears well trained enough to hear, resounded to the click of ivory that
was not the click of pool and billiard balls! Upstairs, if one could get upstairs, a gambling
hell supplanted the billiard hall below. It was an unsavoury place, the resort of crooks, some
of whom lived there--amongst them, Reddy Mull.

Jimmie Dale, close against the fence, and halfway down the lane now, paused and looked about
him, straining his eyes through the blackness--then with a lithe spring he caught the top of
the fence, swung himself over, and dropped to the ground on the other side. The rear of a row
of low buildings now loomed up before him across a narrow yard. Window lights showed here and
there from the houses on either side; and from the upper windows of the house directly in front
of him faint threads of light filtered out into the darkness through the cracks of closed shutters,
but the lower part of the house was in blackness.

He crept forward silently across the yard. There was a back entrance, but it led to the basement--Jimmie
Dale's immediate attention was directed to the rear window, the window of one Reddy Mull's
room. And here, crouched beneath it, Jimmie Dale listened. From the front of the establishment
came muffled sounds from the pool and billiard hall; there was nothing else.

The window was above the level of his head, but still easily within reach. He tested it, found
it locked--and the steel jimmy crept in under the sash. A moment passed, there was a faint,
almost indistinguishable creak; and then Jimmie Dale, drawing himself up with the agility of
a cat, had slipped through, and was standing, listening again, inside the room.

The sounds from the pool room were louder, more distinct now, even rising once into a shout
of boisterous hilarity; but there was no other sound. The round, white ray of Jimmie Dale's
flashlight circled the room suddenly, inquisitively--and went out. It was a bare, squalid place,
dirty, filthy, disreputable. There was a bed, unmade, a table, a few chairs, a greasy, threadbare
carpet on the floor--nothing else, save that his eyes had noted that the electric-light switch
was on the wall beside the jamb of the door.

The flashlight winked again--and again went out. Jimmie Dale slipped his mask over his face,
and moved forward toward the wall.

"Under loose board, right-hand corner from door," murmured Jimmie Dale. He was kneeling on
the floor now. "Yes, here it was!" His flashlight was boring down into a little excavation
beneath the piece of flooring he had removed. He stared into this for a moment, his lips twitching
grimly; then, with a whimsical shrug of his shoulders, he replaced the board, and stood up.
He had found the hiding place without any trouble--but he had found it empty. "I guess," said
Jimmie Dale, with a mirthless smile, "that there's a good deal of the bank's property at large--temporarily!"

There was a chair by the wall close to the door, he had noticed. He moved over, and sat down--but,
instead of his flashlight, his automatic was in his hand now. There was the chance, of course,
that English Dick had already been here with that twenty thousand from the bank, and in that
case, as witness the empty hiding place, Reddy Mull had already passed it on; but it was much
more likely that neither one of the two had yet arrived. Which one would come first then--English
Dick, or Reddy Mull? If it were Reddy Mull it would be unfortunate--for Reddy Mull. His, Jimmie
Dale's, immediate business was with English Dick, and he was quite content to leave Reddy Mull
to the later ministrations of the police.

Jimmie Dale's fingers tested the mechanism of his automatic in the darkness. Whose was the
master brain behind all this? This crime to-night bore glaring evidence to the work of some
far-flung, intricate and powerful organisation--the Tocsin was indubitably right in that. Was
this the first concrete expression he had had of that undercurrent he had sensed of late as
permeating the underworld, that he had sensed was reaching out as one of its objects for him
and that--

He came suddenly without a sound to his feet, and pressed back close against the wall, his
body rigid and thrown forward like one poised to spring. There was a footstep outside the door,
the rasp of a key in the lock, then a faint, murky path of light as the door opened, and a
man stepped forward over the threshold. The key was inserted with another rasping sound in
the inner side of the lock, the door closed, the key turned and was withdrawn, thrust evidently
into its possessor's pocket--and then Jimmie Dale, silently, in a lightning flash, was upon
the other, his hand at the man's throat, the cold, round muzzle of his automatic against the
other's face. There was a choked cry, the thud as of something dropping on the floor--and then
Jimmie Dale spoke.

"Put your hands up over your head!" he breathed grimly--and, as the other obeyed, his own hand
fell away from the man's throat, and in a quick, deft sweep over the other's clothing located
the bulge of a revolver, and whipped it from the man's pocket. He pushed the man with his automatic's
muzzle back against the wall, closer to the electric-light switch. Was it Reddy Mull--or English
Dick? And then Jimmie Dale laughed low, unpleasantly, as he switched on the light. He was staring
into a face that was white and colourless--the face of a man with a heavy black moustache,
and whose slouch hat was jammed far down over his eyes. The process of elimination made it
very simple--it was English Dick.

The man blinked, and wet his lips with his tongue, and at sight of Jimmie Dale's mask, perhaps
because it suggested a community of interest, tried to force a smirk.

"What's--what's the game?" he stammered.

"This--to begin with!" said Jimmie Dale grimly--and, stooping, picked up from the floor a small
black satchel, the object that English Dick had dropped on entering the room. 

    Spelling and punctuation of the original text were adopted. ]
  

                           A Hunger Artist

                             
                              Story by FRANZ KAFKA

In recent decades interest in hunger artists
has declined much.

While it is well worth organize earlier, such large demonstrations in-house, is this is now
completely impossible. There were different times. Back then, the whole city the hunger artist,
from his fast to his fast increased participation, everyone wanted a hunger artist see at least
once a day, at the later days there were subscribers who days ago the small mesh cage sat, even in the
night took place surveys, to increase the effect of the torchlight, on fine days the cage
was taken outside, and now It was especially the children, where the hunger artist was shown,
while for the adults often only one was fun, where they attended the sake of fashion, the
children were amazed, with mouth open, for safety, holding each other's hands, watched as he wan, in
the black Jersey, with powerful protruding ribs, even a chair, disdaining to hingestreutem
Straw was once politely nodding, smiling, answering hard questions, even by the Grating arm stretched
to make feel his leanness, but then again into himself even sank to anyone cared, not even
so important for him to blow the Clock, which was the only furniture of the cage, just in front
of him looked almost closed eyes and took a sip here and there from a tiny glass of water to
the lips moist.

In addition to the changing audience, including permanent, elected
by the public guardian was there, strangely enough, usually butchers,
which always had three at the same time, the task day and night to
watch the hunger artist, so he not in some clandestine manner but
food eat.

It was but only a formality introduced to reassure the masses, because the insiders were well aware that
the artist never hunger during the famine, under any circumstances, even under duress, not
even the slightest had only eaten the honor his art forbade it. Of course, not everyone could understand
the guards, there were found sometimes nightly security groups that the surveillance conducted
by very lax, intentionally a far corner sat down together and there are recessed into the deck
to reveal the Intention, the hunger artist to enjoy a little refreshment, which he in their
opinion of some secret stocks could bring out.
 Your object was to exploit a small bank where, with only one man
from whom to hide your work, you could loot it thoroughly; and a forged confession clever enough
to deceive any one in its handwriting and signature, and the man found dead from a dose of
prussic acid, the empty bottle on the floor beside him, needed no other evidence to stamp him
as the guilty man."

English Dick was struggling to his feet; his eyes, in a sort of horrible fascination, on Jimmie
Dale.

Jimmie Dale, pushed him savagely back into his seat. "Yes--you cur!" he said again. "You got
your first fright when you found those evidences of suicide were gone--you even lost your nerve
a little in your bluff with the bank examiners--and you hurried here the moment you could get
away from the preliminary police investigation that followed--I was even afraid you might get
here a little sooner than you did. Shall I give you the details of this afternoon and to-night?
The plant was ready. You had sent for the bank examiners. You had already prepared the forged
confession, and had a small package of securities ready. Forrester had gone to New York. You
turned over the confession and the package of securities to your accomplice, or accomplices,
to be left in Forrester's room. I imagine that you telephoned, or sent a message, to New York
to Forrester telling him that the bank examiners were in the bank, that there was something
the matter, and for him to go to his rooms, and, say, meet you there before going to the bank.
Your accomplice, for you established an alibi by remaining with the bank examiners, stole in
after him, or even in the dark hallway stunned him with a black-jack, then forced the poison
down his throat, laid him on the floor, placed the empty bottle beside him, and left the confession
on the desk. The plan was very cunningly worked out. The bruise on Forrester's head was most
obviously accounted for--his head had struck, of course, against the leg of the couch--he was
found lying in that position! It is strange, though, isn't it, how sometimes the most cunning
of plans go astray in the simplest and yet the most perverse of ways? Who, under the circumstances,
would have thought of it! Your accomplice had simply to place a document already prepared upon
the desk. Even you did not think to warn him yourself. It did not enter his head to see if
there were pen and ink there with which it might have been written, or, failing that, a fountain
pen in Forrester's pocket--and there was neither the one nor the other. That's all--except
the name of the man who killed Forrester." Jimmie Dale leaned forward sharply. "Who was it?"

English Dick wet his lips again.

"I--they--they'd kill me like--like a dog if I told," he mumbled.

"They?" The monosyllable came curt and hard.

"I don't know," said English Dick. "That's God's truth--I never knew--there's a big gang--none
of us know.".

"But you know who worked with you in this." Jimmie Dale was speaking through clenched teeth.
"You know who killed Forrester."

"Yes." The man's whisper was scarcely audible.

"Who?"

"Reddy--Reddy Mull."

"Yes," said Jimmie Dale in his grim monotone, "I thought so."

He reached into the satchel where a small package of securities were wrapped up in a sheet
of the bank's stationery, removed the sheet of paper, and spread it out before English Dick.
"Write it down!" he commanded--and the muzzle of his automatic jerked forward to touch the
fountain pen in the other's vest pocket. "Write it--all of it--your own share--Reddy Mull's--the
whole story!"

The man's lips seemed to have gone dry again, and again and again his tongue circled them.

"I can't!" he said hoarsely. "I daren't--they'd kill me. And--and if they didn't, it would
send me up, and perhaps--perhaps to the chair."

"You take your chances on that"--Jimmie Dale's voice was low and even--"but you take no chances
here--for there are none." The automatic in Jimmie Dale's hand edged ominously forward. "It's
Forrester's exoneration--or you. Do you understand? And you make your choice--now."

For an instant the man's eyes met Jimmie Dale's, then shifted, as though drawn in spite of
himself, to the muzzle of Jimmie Dale's automatic; and then his hand reached into his pocket
for his pen.

From the pool room in front came an outburst of hand-clapping and applause--there was evidently
a match of some kind going on. Jimmie Dale, his eyes on English Dick, as the latter began to
write with a sort of feverish haste as though fear and a miserable desire to have done with
it spurred him on, picked up the articles from the table, and placed them in the satchel. He
waited silently then--and then English Dick pushed the paper toward him.

Jimmie Dale picked it up, and read it. It was all there, all of it--and the signature this
time was not forged! He placed the paper in the satchel, and closed the satchel.

English Dick passed his hand across a forehead that beaded with perspiration.

"What are you going to do?" he asked under his breath.

"I'm going to see that this--and you--reaches the hands of the police," said Jimmie Dale tersely.
"We'll leave here in a moment--by the window. There's a patrolman who passes the end of the
lane once in a while, and I expect, with the aid of a piece of cord and a pocket handkerchief
as a gag, that he'll find you there. My method may be a little crude, but I have reasons of
my own for not walking into a police station with you. but before we go, there's still that
matter of--the men higher up. They needed a clever penman for this job and one who wouldn't
be recognised--and they got the best! Who brought you over from England?"

"A friend over there, one of the 'swell ones,' put it up to me," English Dick answered heavily.

"Yes--and here?" prodded Jimmie Dale. "Who got you into the bank here?"

"I don't know." English Dick shook his head. "I reported to a man called Chester. He doped
out the story I was to tell, and told me to go to the bank and apply for the job, and that
it was already fixed."

"I'd like to meet 'Chester,'" said Jimmie Dale grimly. "Where does he live?"

"I don't know," said English Dick again. "I tell you, I don't know! They're big--my God, they'll
get me for this, if the law doesn't! I don't know where he lives--he always came to me. The
only one I know is Reddy Mull, and--"

His voice was drowned out in a louder and more prolonged burst of applause from the pool room,
which mingled shouts, cries and the thunderous banging of cue butts on the floor.

"A good shot!" said Jimmie Dale, with a grim smile.

"Yes," said English Dick, "a good shot"--but into his voice had crept a new note, a note like
one of malicious triumph.

Jimmie Dale's lips set suddenly hard and tight. Yes, he heard now--perhaps too late--what the
other saw. The uproar that had drowned out all other sounds had subsided--the door behind him
had been unlocked and was now opening slowly.

And then Jimmie Dale, quick as thought is quick, his fingers closed on the satchel, hurled
himself around the table and to the floor. There was the roar of a report, a flash of flame,
as Reddy Mull, hand thrust in through the partially open doorway, fired--a wild scream, as
the shot, meant for him, Jimmie Dale, found another mark directly behind where he had been
standing--and English Dick, reeling to his feet, pitched forward over the table, carrying the
table with him to the floor. It had taken the time that a watch takes to tick. Came the roar
of a report again, as Jimmie Dale fired in turn--at the electric-light bulb a few feet away
from him on the wall. There was the tinkle of shattering glass--and darkness. Came shouts,
cries, a yell from the door from Reddy Mull, a fusillade of shots from Reddy Mull's revolver,
the rush of many feet from the pool room--and Jimmie Dale, in the blackness, dropped silently
from the window to the ground.

He gained the street; and, five minutes later, blocks away, he entered the private stall of
a Bowery saloon. Here, Jimmie Dale added another paper to the contents of the satchel. The
characters printed, and badly formed, the paper looked like this:

   WITH THE COMPLIMENTS OF THE
              /\
             /  \
            /    \
           /      \
           \      /
            \    /
             \  /
              \/

"And I guess," said Jimmie Dale grimly to himself, "that if I slip this to the police, the
police will get--Reddy Mull." The field of battle, the honor of the life awaiting him. But he has
no More power to spread their wings for flight.

Paths

Difficult the ways that people move here on earth, they must.

Desert trails, marsh trails, mountain paths.

Why must so much grief take its course until it got lost in the desert or in the Swamp or sink
down from the mountain crash? Where are the little flower girls, where are the small Fairy
tale princesses, roses grow on their tracks, where the nature, the flowers are on the serious
way to diversify?

Now, Gosta Berling, the poet decided to marry. He only looks for a Bride, which is low enough,
low enough for a crazy pastor. Beautiful and noble women have loved him, but they are not to
come forward and compete for his hand.

The outcast elect from among the outcasts. Whom will he choose whom he will find?

Sometimes a poor young girl comes up from a remote forest area between the top Bergen Ekeby to sell
brooms.

In this region, where widespread poverty and perpetual misery prevail, there are many who are
not in possession of their full understanding, and the girl with the broom is one of those many.

But
beautiful it is. Your strong, black hair is braided into two braids, which are so thick that
they have no place on her head, and her cheeks are fine rounded, the nose is straight and not very
large, the eyes are blue. It is one of those melancholy, like Madonna Beauty types, such as those
found today at beautiful girls on the banks of the long Löfsees.

Now that Gösta had even a bride - a half-crazy broom seller is a good woman for a crazy pastor. Something
more appropriate can not be. He just needs to Karlstad to travel, to order the rings, then the
people at another hilarious Löfsee Day have. They will once again laugh at Gosta Berling, when dealing with
the broom seller engaged and a wedding with her. Yes laugh, let them!

Has he ever had a funny pranks planned?

Heavy are the ways in which people migrate - desert trails, marsh
trails, mountain paths.

The breach must not walk the path of the outcast? The path of anger, the path of sorrow, the path
of misfortune? What to do when he falls, he perishes? Is there anyone which it returns to restrain
him? Is there anyone who him a supporting hand, a bracing drink enough?

Where are the little flower girls, where are the little fairy princesses, where all the beings
that roses are hard to top the track?

No, no, the young, gentle Countess on credit will Gosta Berling not interfere in his plans. You
want to think about their reputation, the anger of her husband and the hatred of her mother,
she will do nothing to restrain him.

During the long Svartsjöer worship in the Church they will bow their heads, will fold their
hands and pray for him. In sleepless nights, she can cry about it and worry about him, but
it has no flowers to scatter them on the path of the outcast, no Drops of water to him to reach
out to the thirsty, no quiet handshake has taken him from the edge
of the abyss could have back.

Gosta Berling does not care to dress in silk and his chosen with jewels to decorate. He can still
go with the broom from farm to farm, but when he all the noble men and women from around the
area a great feast on Ekeby has gathered, he will publish his engagement. Because he wants her
out of the kitchen to call in, as it has come home from their long
walks, the dust and dirt the road on the clothes, perhaps ragged,
unkempt, perhaps, with disheveled look, a confused stream of words
on the lips.

And then he will ask the guests if he does not now a suitable bride has chosen, whether the
mad priest must be proud of such a beautiful bride, on this gentle Madonnas face, those blue,
dreamy eyes. It was his intention that no one should do something about it in advance, but
he did not succeed, to keep the secret, and among others learned
of the young Countess Dohna.

But what could she do in order to prevent it? The engagement day has come, the dawn has lowered
itself. The Countess is in the blue cabinet, looking north. She believes almost, that she can
see Ekeby, although inhibiting tears and her eyes mist.

She looks so much the large three-story house, glow in the three rows of lighted windows, it does
Think of how the champagne will be given in the glasses, as toasts to ring, and Gosta Berling
announced his engagement with the broom seller.

When she was near him now, and quietly put her hand on his arm, or him as a Smiling Eyes gave, he
would not turn back because of the evil ways of the outcast? If a word had driven him out of
their mouths to such a desperate act, would because it can not hold back a word of it?

They shuddered at the injustice that he wants to commit to this poor, unfortunate child, should
now be tempted to love him, maybe just for the amusement of a single
day.

Perhaps - and here she shuddered even more before the sin which he
committed himself to - Perhaps in order to forge as oppressive bondage
of his foot to his forever to rob the spirit force, to strive upward.

And when they finally all considered accurate, the blame lay with her. She had a Word of condemnation
of the evil way encountered. She, who had come to bless, to ease, so they had woven still more
a thorn in the crown of thorns of the sinner?

Yes, now she knows what she wants to do.

She wants to tighten the black horses to the sled , Wants to take over the Löfsee to plunge
into the hall to Ekeby, just in front of Gosta Berling and make him say that they had not
despised that they did not know what she said when they ran him out
of her house.

No, something they could do but do not, they would coyly be unable
to utter a word.

She was married and had to be careful. It would give rise to so much gossip when they did
something. But if she did not - What would become of him?

She had to depart from!

And then they remember that it is impossible to over to seeing. This time of year can no horse
on the lake over.

The ice is melting on the point, the bank has it is already solved. Unsure burst it is there
to look ugly. The water swells between the rotten ice up, has in some places it in black puddles
collected in other places the ice is blindingly white. The largest part of the lake is gray
and dirty from melting snow and the roads run like long black stripes over its surface.

How can she think of it, a wish to continue? Her mother, the old Countess Marta, would never
allow her something. All evening she has to her side in the great Living room and listen to
the old Farm history with that are the delight of the elderly.

But come the night, and her husband is away, and now it is free.

Take it can not, she does not dare to wake the servants, but fear
drives them out of their home.

You can not help it.

Heavy are the ways to move people on earth - desert trails, marsh trails, mountain paths.

But with what shall I compare this natural path of the melting ice? If not the same way that
the little flower girls have to go to an uncertain, fluctuating, slippery path, the path of those
who want to heal the wounds, the way of those who want to make amends, the slight foot, rapid
eye, brave, loving Hearted way?

It was about midnight when the Countess reached the shore at Ekeby. She was on the ice fallen,
they had jumped over wide cracks, it was easy hinweggehuscht on organizations
where the bulging water filled the footprints, they had slipped, she
was crawling.

It was a difficult hike was, and she had wept as she walked.

       She was wet and tired, and out there on the ice had the darkness,
the loneliness and emptiness their thoughts complained.

Now, just before Ekeby, they had to wade in foot-high water, to reach the country. And when they
had come up on the shore, she had no courage had to something else than to put on a stone and
with fatigue and helplessness to cry.

Heavy hiking paths the children of men, and the little flower girls often drop by her Basket
down, especially in the very moment when they reach those whose way
they wanted to sprinkle flowers.

This young lady was still a nice little heroine. She was in such a way her sunny homeland not
hiked. Since it is no wonder, that, on the banks of this weird, terrible lake sits, wet, tired
and unhappy, as it is, and the gentle, blumenverbrämten paths of their southern country of
birth is thinking.

Oh, for they are no longer about whether South, whether North. It is the center of life. She does
not cry with homesickness. She cries, the little flower girl, the little heroine, because
she so tired is that they can not reach, the way they want, sprinkle with flowers - She cries because
she believes that she has come too late.

Here come some people walked along the beach. They rush past her, without being To see but they hear
their words: "Crashed the dam, then the blacksmith lost," says the!
a. "And the mill and the workshops and the houses of the forge," adds
another.

As she puts new courage, stands up and follows them.

* * * * *

The mill and the forge of Ekeby lay on a narrow strip of land that the Björk Seebach umbraust.
He fell rustling to the headland down enormous white foaming from the case and to protect the built route
to the water, was a large breakwater in front of the Cape attached. But the dam was now old,
and ruled the pensioners.

The left dance over hill and dale go, but no one took the time look up, as the current and had worked
for the cold and the ravages of time on the old stone dam.

And then comes the spring, and the dam is beginning to yield.

The waterfall at Ekeby is a huge granite steps, through which the waves of the Björk Seebacher
herabgebraust come. They are giddy piece of the barrel is incredible bounce against each other.
They drive on in anger, spraying each other with foam stumble over
a stone, a tree trunk, then to gather again to again and again under
to stumble foaming and puffing and roaring.

And these wild, excited waves, intoxicated with the spring air, dizzy from the recovered Freedom
to run, now in arms against the old stone wall. They come storming panting and groaning, high
on the wall up and withdraw again when she had her white-haired Heads encountered. There is
a storm, as it can not be violent, to serve the large ice floes them as shields, the tree trunks
as battering rams, they rush to break race, against this low wall until it suddenly looks as if
someone had them a "Beware," shouted.

Since fall back, and behind them is a great bargain stone that separated from the dam has
blustering and sinks in the stream.

It almost seem as if it scares them, they stand still, they cheer,
they counsel - And then: forward with renewed vigor!

There they are again with ice and tree trunks, full of funny pranks, merciless, wild, wild with
lust for destruction.

If only the dam away - say the waves - only the dam would continue, as should very soon the
Range of the forge and the mill are coming!

The day of freedom is there - and people continue to work! They have black and sooty made with their
coal, they have dusted us with their meal, they have the Arbeitsjoch launched as the oxen are
driven around in a circle with us, we have included, inhibited our course, forced us to drive the
heavy wheels, the chunky trunks to wear.

But now we want to make us free!

The day of freedom is here! Listening to their top of the waves Björksee, hear it, my brothers and sisters
in marshes and swamps, in mountain streams and wild rivers! Come, come! Plunges down to you,
combined you with us, comes with fresh forces, rumbling, hissing,
ready, the hundred-year yoke to smash!

Come! The bulwark of tyranny will fall. Death and destruction over Ekeby!

And they come. Wave after wave rushes down into the case to the head
against the dam to Encountered to help promote the great work.

Intoxicated by the freedom neuerrungenen Lenz, strong, united, they come and remove stone by
stone, soil layer of soil on the fluctuating breakwater.

Why let the people but because the wild waves roar, without offering resistance? Ekeby is extinct?

No, people are there, a confused, helpless, helpless human host. The night is dark, they can not
see each other, can not see where they connect.

The waterfall roaring strong, it is a terrible noise of smashing ice and rebounding together
Tree trunks, they can not understand their own word. The wildness, the roaring waves taken,
has filled the minds of the people, they have no thoughts in their minds, they are completely
unconscious.

The factory bell sounded, who has ears to hear, hear! We here at the bottom of the Ekeby Forge
have to pass close to it. The creek plunges over us. The dam fluctuates, the Smithy is in danger,
the mill is in danger and our own humble dwellings we love in spite of all their littleness.

The waves very well believe that the bell should summon their companions,
because it shows not human.

But out in the marshes and woods create a bustle. "To Help! Help! "Get the bells. "After a
hundred years of slavery, we have finally free. Come! Come on! "The roaring waves and the ringing
bells sing factory Ekeby Honor and glory to the dead singing.

And meanwhile, a messenger is sent by one of the gentlemen of the
castle.

If the thinking in the mood to forge and mill? Hundreds of guests are in the large halls of
Ekeby gathered. The broom seller waits outside in the kitchen. The exciting Moment of surprise
has come. The champagne bubbled in the glasses, Julius rises in order to keep the speech. All
the old adventurer Ekeby look forward to the silent Wonderment that will take possession of the
Assembly.

Out on the ice of the young Countess Dohna Löfsees moves in an eerily life-threatening Away, whispering
to Gosta Berling a word of warning in his ear. Bottom of the mountain torrent running the Storm
waves against Ekeby power and glory, but in the large rooms there
only joy and tense Expectancy; shine the wax candles, and the wine
flows in there, no one thinks of this, what's out there in the dark,
stormy spring night is going on. 

Right now the moment has come.
Gösta rises and goes out to his bride to fetch. He must pass through
the vestibule, the large doors are wide open - it remains stand, he
looks out into the dark night - and he listens, he listens.

He hears
the bells ringing, they hear the roar torrent. He hears the roar of
the crashing Ice, the noise of the clashing together tree trunks,
the roaring, mocking, winning freedom anthem the rebellious waves.

Then
he forgets everything and rushes out into the night. Because of him,
the charges in there with Glasses to stop and wait until the Last
Day, he makes nothing of them. His bride can wait. Patron Julius'
speech may he die on the lips. Today will be adversely no rings exchanged,
no mute astonishment will seize the brilliant assembly.

Now woe to
you, you rebellious waves, now it is in truth, for freedom to fight,
now Gosta Berling has come down from the mountain torrent, now the
people have a Leaders get the defender is now on the walls, now begins
a terrible Struggle.

Hark how he calls out to the crowd, he orders,
he put all in action.

"We must have light, light, above all! Suffice
it to horn lantern not of the miller. Take the fagots there, she carries
on the hill and lights it! This is a job for Women and children. Only
fast! Makes a great pile of dry branches! This is We shine in our
work, scheduled to appear well and call for help. And provides ensure
that the fire is not quenched, collected straw and wood, and let the
flames of hell to heaven . Beat up - - -

"Look, you men, is here
working for you! Here is wood, here are bars, a Zimmert Notdamm, we
can cut down before the fluctuating wall. Quick, quick to work, makes
it safe and strong! Keep stones and sand bags ready hinabzusenken
to the scaffold! Quick! Let your swinging axes, the hammer blows resound,
let the drill deep into the Gnaw wood and dry the saw screaming in
the boards!

"And where are the boys? Brought about with you, you
wild hoodlums! Holt brings rods, boat hooks and comes here, right
into the fight crowd! In addition, the dam with you boys in the middle
of the Waves into the roar and foam and sprinkling us with white foam!
Defend them off, weakens them, they reject these attacks, make the
burst the walls! Move the Tree trunks and the ice floes aside Bow
down, when nothing will help, and keep the stones down with your hands,
biting into it, clutching it with iron Mouth! Fight in, boys, you
scoundrels, you Wild! In addition, the wall with you! We must fight
for every inch wide world! "

Gösta itself stands on the very edge
of the dam and stands there, molded foam, while the base varies from
under him. The wave roars and rages, but indulges his wild heart in
the risk in the trouble in the fight. To call it a courtyard hardly
described the place. It was more an open backyard common to the row of tenements, and rather
narrow and confined in space at that. It was dirty, cluttered with rubbish, and across it,
facing the rear of the tenements, was a small building that many years ago had been, possibly,
a stable or an outhouse belonging to some private and no doubt pretentious dwelling, which
long since now, with the progress northward of the city, had been supplanted by the crowded,
poverty-stricken, and anything but pretentious tenements. This outhouse had been to a certain
extent remodelled, and to a certain extent made habitable, and as long as any one could remember
Melinoff with his old-clothes shop had been its tenant.

Jimmie Dale began to make his way cautiously across the yard, wary of the tin cans and general
rubbish which an inadvertent step might metamorphose most effectively into a decidedly undesirable
advertisement of his presence. There was no light that he could see in Melinoff's at all; and
he frowned now in a puzzled way. Had the Pippin been and gone; or was he, Jimmie Dale, ahead
of the Pippin? The Pippin would have had ample time, of course, to get here, for he, Jimmie
Dale, had probably remained in Bristol Bob's a good half hour after the Pippin had left. In
that case, then, Melinoff must have gone away with the Pippin again--that would account for
there being no light. But, on the other hand, if the Pippin had not yet arrived, and Melinoff
expected the visit, it was most curious that the place was in darkness!

And then Jimmie Dale smiled a little mockingly at himself. His deductions would perhaps have
been of infinitely more value if he had first waited to make sure of the premise on which they
were based! As a matter of fact, there was a light! He had reached the front of the little
place, and peering cautiously through the window could make out, across the black interior,
a thread of light that came through the crack of a closed door, and from what was, evidently,
another room in the rear.

Jimmie Dale's fingers closed on the heavy, cumbersome, old-fashioned door latch, pressed it
down noiselessly, and exerted a little tentative pressure on the door itself. It was locked.
A minute passed in absolute silence, as a little steel instrument was inserted in the lock--and
then the door swung inward and was dosed again, and Jimmie Dale, rigid and motionless, stood
inside.

He was listening now for some sound, the sound of voices, or the sound of movement from that
lighted room. There was nothing. Jimmie Dale's lips tightened suddenly. It was very curious!
There was an "upstairs" to the place, such as it was, but if Melinoff was up there alone, or
with the Pippin, they were up there in the dark unless they were in the rear upstairs room;
in which case they could not, in view of the ramshackle nature of the building, have made the
slightest movement without making themselves heard from where he stood.

From his pocket Jimmie Dale produced a flashlight. The ray played once, as though with queer,
diffident curiosity, about him, swept once more in a circuit around the room, swiftly, in an
almost startled way this time--and there was darkness again. The
wife of the captain was a strict woman who never spoke about what she thought; so much but
knew the landlady, that no one with Captain Lennart spoon had to eat or had been allowed to
sit in his chair while he was gone. Now in spring not a day had passed, where they had not gone
to the highest of the hills and Broby had looked down the road though he probably did not come.
And new clothes she had prepared for him, self-made clothes She had almost made alone. In all
this but you could see that he was expected, even if they said anything.

"Do not believe it yet," asked Captain Lennart.

"No, sir," replied the peasant woman, "no one believes it!"

Since it was Captain Lennart no longer in his room because he wanted to go home.

Outside he met by chance a good, old friends.

The Cavaliers of Ekeby were just in the Gasthof come. Sintram had
invited them there to celebrate his birthday.

And Cavaliers pondered for a moment to shake hands with him and the punishment welcome to hot
again. The same did Sintram.

"Dear Lennart," he said, "be thou convinced that God had a purpose
here."

"You scoundrel," said Lennart. "You think about, I do not know that it is not the God been, who
has freed you from the chopping block? "

The others laughed, Sintram was not at all angry. He had no objection that one made allusions
to it that he was in league with evil.

And then they persuaded Lennart captain, with again to get inside, and a welcome cup to drink,
then he could go still the same. But he was taken ill. He was for five Years did not enjoy the least
treacherous of these products. He had perhaps the eaten all day and
was exhausted after the long hike.

As a result, made clouded him a couple of glasses altogether.

When the Cavaliers had him only so far that he no longer really knew what he was doing, forced
to him for a glass after another. They meant no harm with it, it was only good will against him, who
had for five years, nothing tasted like.

Otherwise, he was the most sober man you could imagine. One can also understand that he had no intention
of getting drunk - he wanted to go home to wife and children. Instead, he remained on the
bench in the room are Schenk and fell asleep.

And now as he lay unconscious, so seductive, Gösta took a coal and a little Kronsbeerensaft and
painted him in it.

He was a true criminal face, and he said it fits well for him, since he just came out of prison.
He gave him a "blue" eyes, he pulled out a red Scar on his nose,
moved into the hair tufts in zusammengekletteten in the forehead,
and blackened his whole face with soot.

They laughed about it for a while, then wanted to wash it Gösta.

"Oh no, let it," said Sintram, "then he can see it when he wakes up.

It will amuse him. "

And so it remained as it was, and the Cavaliers no longer thought
of the captain.

The drinking lasted all night. At dawn they set off. Since wine was definitely more than Understanding
in their minds.

Now the question came up to her what to do with Captain Lennart.

"We take him home," said Sintram. "Just think how his wife will be
happy.

It is a pleasure to see her joy. I get very agitated when I think
of it.

Let We drive him home. "

They were all very touched at the thought. Good God, how she would
be happy to stern woman Helgesater!

They shook Captain Lennart until he woke up, and put him on one of the cars the tired grooms
had driven up long ago.

And then the whole crowd moved to Helgesater; some half-asleep and
were about to fall off the wagon, others were singing to themselves
awake to obtain.

They all saw each other not much better than tramps with her limp,
swollen faces.

They arrived at their destination, however, were horses and carriages keep in the backyard and
ascended the stairs with a certain solemnity. Beer Creutz and Julius
led the main man between them.

"Awake now, Lennart," she said to him, "you're at home.

Do not you see, that you are at home? "

He opened his eyes and was almost sober. He was very touched that they escorted him were given.

"My friends," he said, stopping to talk to them all at once. "I have God asked why I have so
much evil must suffer. "

"Oh hush, Lennart," Beer said Creutz, keep "your sermons for you."

"Let him speak, then," said Sintram, "he speaks really well."

"I asked him and did not understand it, but now I understand it quite
well.

He wanted to show me what I did for friends. Friends, home, guide
me to my and my Wife joy to see.

Because my wife is expecting me. What is here about five years of misery? "

Now thundered hard fists on the door. The Cavaliers did not have time to hear more.

Inside was moving. The maids woke up and looked out. They threw some quick Clothes on, but dared
not to open this band of men. Finally, the Bolt retracted. Mrs. Lennart himself came out.

"What do you want?" She asked.

Beer Creutz said, "We bring you your man"

They pushed in front of Captain Lennart, and she saw him on the swaying, drunk, with a Criminals face.
And behind him she saw the whole crowd of drunken, staggering men.

She went back a step, he followed her with open arms. "You went as a thief," she exclaimed,
"and as a tramp you come back," So they wanted to go inside.

He did not understand. He wanted to follow her, because she said it a push in the chest. "Do
you think that I am minded to someone like you as Lord over my house and my include children,
"she said.

The door closed and the bolt was pushed forward. Captain Lenny fell on the Door and began to shake
it.

As the Cavaliers could not refrain from laughing. He had been so sure of his wife, and now she
wanted nothing to do with him. They found amusing.

Hearing Captain Lennart, they laughed, he drove a beat on her and she wanted to. They ran and
jumped on her car. He afterwards, but stumbled in his haste it over
a stone and fell.

He got up again, they are not pursued further, however. In his Confusion it a thought flashed
through my mind: In this world nothing happens without the God's
will, not the least.

"Where will you lead me," he said. "I am a feather that flies in front of your breath. I'm your
plaything. Where do you want to lead me? Why did you close the door for me to my home? "

He wandered from his home in the belief that this was God's will.

As the sun rose, he stood up on the Broby hills and looked down into the valley. Ah! the population
of the valley did not know then that their Savior was near. There was no poor, not afflicted,
the rings had twisted and hung over the door to his hut. It were no leaves of fragrant lavender
and wild flowers laid on the threshold he entered should.

The mothers did not take her children on her arms to him to show them when he came. The interior
of the huts was not as fine and polished, the black fireplace with fragrant Juniper branches hidden.
The men did not work with untiring zeal in the field, consequently, the well-kept fields and the
well-dug trenches delight his eye.

Alas, from there, where he stood, saw his troubled look, like the drought devastated the area had,
as the crops were scorched, as the population it was hardly worth the effort, the prepare soil
for the seeds of the new year. He looked up at the blue mountains, and the Morning sunlight showed
him the brown, parched places where the fire had raced.

He looked the birch trees by the roadside, which had been taken almost from droughts. He could at
various notice small signs - the smell of the mast when he passed
by a court in the Fences, which had fallen down on the small amount
of firewood, went home and was crushed - that the people are not troubled
her things, that the distress had was that the people sought solace
in their indifference and brandy.

But maybe it was good for him, that he saw what he saw. For him it was not granted the seeds on
his own farm to see green and germinate, it was not given the chance
to his own stove to sit and watch as the embers extinguished, not
even to feel how the soft hands of his children put into his own,
or a religious Wife at his side to have.

Maybe it was good for him, his sense of heavy grief charged was that there were others whom
he could give comfort in their poverty. Maybe It was good for him that this time was such a bitter
time when the sparse nature of poverty had brought about the little
people, where some who had been fortunate that his did to destroy it.

Not for nothing was the pastor of Broby as covetous miser sat among
his parishioners, takes them to be a true shepherd, not in vain had
the Cavaliers in waste and drunkenness governed, not for nothing had
Sintram taught them the wild belief that death and destruction will
come upon them all.

Captain Lenny was there on the hill Broby and thought involuntarily that God his need of you.
He was called home nor by a repentant wife.

It must be mentioned that the Cavaliers could not understand later that they Lennart's hard to blame
for women's behavior contributed. Sintram said nothing. In the area many disapproving words about
the wife, according to which had been too proud to such a good Man record. It was said that
they all just broke, which made the attempt with her to speak of
her husband.

She could not bear that his name was called. Captain Lennart but
did nothing to bring them to other thoughts.

It was a day later.

An old farmer in Högberg is on his deathbed. He has received the sacrament and its Life force
is consumed, he must die. Restless as someone who is in the process, a long travel to compete, he
makes his bed from the kitchen into the room and back out of the room bring into the kitchen.
This it can be more severe than seen in its death rattle, that his
last hour has come.

Around him are his wife, his children, his servants. He was happy, wealthy and respected His
deathbed was not lonely. He is in his last hour not by impatient Foreign environment. The old
man speaks of himself always, as he stands before God, and with many
sighs and confirmatory evidence of the bystanders said that his speech
is true.

"I am a hard worker and a good master of the house have been," he said. "I have my Woman loved like
my right hand. I do not have my children grow up without discipline and care . Let I did not
drink.

I have the dividing line is not crazy. I have my Horse uphill when it came, not for the Spurs, I
did not starve during the winter the cows . Let I did not let the sheep in the summer to walk around
with their wool. "

And repeated about him the weeping servants like an echo: "He's a
good host has been, Oh, God!

He also hears the words of the dying man as he stands silently at the door.

And the patient begins again: "I have been cleared the forests and meadows dried up. I pulled
the plow in straight furrows. I built the barn three times as large, to three times more seed
than my fathers time.

       I have three silver cups of plain species can make crowns - my father
had to make only one ".

The words of the dying man to penetrate the ear of the stranger at the door. He hears themselves
bear witness, as he stood before the throne of God. He hears the children and servants affirmative
Repeat: "He drove the plow straight furrows, which he did."

"God will have me," be a good place in his kingdom of heaven, says
the old man.

"The Lord our God will probably" take up well, said the servants.

The man at the door heard the words, and horror seizes him, the five long years was God's mercy,
is a spring that is moved by his breath. He does approached the patient and takes his hand.

"My friend, my friend," he says, his voice trembling with emotion,
"have you considered, who is the Lord, from whose face shalt thou
soon connect?

He is a great God, a mighty God. Worlds are his fields, the storm is his horse. Great heavens tremble
under the weight his kicks. And you pretend to confront him and say, 'I have just moved furrows
I have sown rye, I hit wood. " Want to boast up to him and talk to it measured? You do not know
how great is the Lord, for whose kingdom you draw! "

The old man opens his eyes, his face contorted with fear, his wheezing is severe.

"If not with big words before your God," continues the wanderer. "The powerful on earth are as
threshed straw in his barn. His daily work is to seed to sow. He dug the seas and piled up
the mountains, he has clothed the earth with herbs. He is a worker without equal, you can not measure
up to him. Bow before him, you people fleeing soul! Throw yourself in the dust before your Lord
and God! Storm God goes out to you. God's wrath is upon you like a devastating storm. Bow down!
Record like a child, the skirt of his coat and beg for protection! Toss and turn up in the dust,
Please Mercy! Humble yourself before your Creator, you a soul! "

The eyes of the patient are wide open, his hands folded, but his face
lit , and the rattling stops sound.

"A soul! fleeing human soul, "exclaimed the man. "As safe as you
are now up have in your last hour struck down humbly before your God,
so sure is that take it up as a child in his arms and introduce you
to the glory of his heaven is. "

The old man sighed again deeply,
and it's all over. Captain Lennart bends his head and pray. All pray
in the room with deep sighs.

When they look up, the old country is
in deep peace. His eyes still seem to shine of the reflection of beautiful
pictures, smiles his mouth, his face lights up. He's God looked.

Oh,
you big, beautiful soul! think all who have seen him, do you have
the bands the dust torn. In your last hour, you'd shake you to your
Creator. You humbly test against him and he picked up as a child in
his arms.

"He has seen God," says the son and the dead eyes.

"He
saw the heavens open," sobbed the children and the servants. 

The
old mother puts her trembling hand in Captain Lennart's rights: "Captain,
your have helped him away from the worst. "

He stands there silent.
Him the gift of strong words and great actions is given. He do not
know how. He trembles like a butterfly on the edge of the doll, while
his wing develop and shine in the sunshine as the sun itself.

* *
* * *

That moment drove out Captain Lennart among the people. Otherwise
he would be home and his wife had been shown his true face, but believed
from that moment he know that God needed him. He was as God's messenger,
who came to the aid of the poor. The need was great at that time,
and there was much poverty control, the wisdom and good will could,
better than gold and power could have done it.

Captain Lenny came
one day to the poor farmers in the area around the Gurlitaberg lived.
Among them, the need was great, they had no more potatoes, and they
could not Rye on the scorched fields, sow, because they lacked seed.

Then
took Captain Lennart a small boat and rowed right across the lake
and asked Sintram to provide them with rye and potatoes. Sintram received
him well: he took him to the large, well-marked grain soils and down
into the basement where the old crop of potatoes or lay, and let him
fill all the bags and bags that he had brought.

But Sintram saw the
small boat, he said that it was for the big load too small. The evil
man who had the bags in one of his big boats and there by his servant,
the Måns strong to row across the lake. Captain Lenny had only eight
on his small boat to give.

The strong Måns but sailed past him, for
he was a champion in rowing and powerful strong. Captain Lenny sits
there and dreams even while he rows across the beautiful lake: he
thinks of the strange fate of the small grains. Now they are on the
black Ground to be thrown, the ash is full, between stones and tree
stumps, but they will already grow and take root in the wilderness!
He thinks about the soft, light green stems, cover the earth, and
he bends down in thought and strokes by hand caressing it out. And
then he thinks, how to go to the autumn and winter are these poor
little ones who are up so late from the earth, and how it still fresh
and be brave to be when spring comes and they are to grow in all seriousness.
No wonder his old warrior heart at the thought of the stiff straws,
so rank, and several Ellen will stand up with pointed ears. The ears
are small, with their plumes fan, the pollen from the stamens will
fly up into the treetops to the top, and then, with obvious struggle
and fear, the ears of corn with sweet, soft grains filled be. And
later, when the scythe comes and the stems fall, and when the flail
chattering it go when the mill grinds the grain into flour and baked
the flour into bread is how much hunger there will be not satisfied
by the seeds before him in the boat!

Sintram servant put on at the
pier of Gurlitabauern, and many hungry people came down to the boat. Murder was too trite a thing in the underworld
to cause any widespread commotion!

"Hello, Wowzer!" he returned, as he shook his head. "No, I ain't heard anything."

"Youse can take it from me den," said the Wowzer, "dat dere's something doin'! Dey got her!"

"Got who?" enquired Jimmie Dale in a puzzled way.

The Wowzer leaned forward secretively.

"Silver Mag!" he said.

It seemed to Jimmie Dale as though the clutch of an icy hand was suddenly at his heart, as
though the ground beneath his feet had grown suddenly unstable and that the Wowzer's face,
close to his own, was swirling around and around in swift and endless gyrations--but he was
conscious, too, that he was master of himself. The muscles of his face twitched--but it was
to express incredulity. His tongue carried the cigarette butt languidly back to the other corner
of his mouth.

"Aw, go on!" said Jimmie Dale. "Try it on somebody else! Silver Mag croaked out the night they
had that fire down there in the old tenement."

"Yes, she did--nix!" scoffed the Wowzer, with a short laugh. "De same way dat blasted snitch
of a Gray Seal did--eh? Say, Smarly, I'm handin' it to youse straight. Dey caught her snoopin'
around one of de en-trays into Foo Sen's half an hour ago. Say, de whole mob all de way up
de line's been tipped off. I'm givin' youse de real thing. Youse must have been asleep somewhere,
or youse'd have been wise before."

"Sure--I believe you!" said Jimmie Dale earnestly. "Who caught her, Wowzer?"

"De Mole," replied the Wowzer. "An' he's got her now over in his layout."

It was a moment before Jimmie Dale spoke. There seemed to be a horrible, ghastly dryness in
his mouth; there seemed to well up from his soul and overwhelm him a world of mocking and sardonic
irony. The Mole! The Mole was the leader of the gang with which the Pippin was allied; it was
at the Mole's place that the Pippin usually lived; it was at the Mole's place that the police
would first institute their search for the Pippin--and five minutes ago, through Carruthers,
he had unleashed the police! The Wowzer's face seemed to be swirling around and around in front
of him again. To get away--and think! He could have groaned, cried out aloud!

"Say, thanks, Wowzer, for piping me off!" said Jimmie Dale effusively.

"Oh, dat's all right," responded the Wowzer graciously. "Only keep it under yer hat except
wid de crowd. De bulls ain't on, an' de Mole saw her first--see? Dere ain't goin' to be no
buttin' in till she gets hers! An' de word's out not to do any pushin' an' crowdin' around
de Mole's fer front seats, 'cause den de bulls 'd get wise--savvy? Just leave it to de Mole--get
me?"

"Sure--I get you," said Jimmie Dale. "Well, so long, Wowzer--and thanks again."

"S'long, Smarly," replied the Wowzer.

CHAPTER XXI

SILVER MAG

It was not far to the Sanctuary, only halfway down the short block to the corner of the lane;
but it seemed a distance interminable to Jimmie Dale. His brain was whirling in a chaotic turmoil;
and the turmoil seemed barbed with a horrible fear that robbed him for the moment of his mental
poise. It was as a man dazed, unconscious of the physical process by which he had arrived there,
that he found himself standing in the Sanctuary, leaning like a man spent with effort against
the door which, mechanically, he had closed behind him.

In hideous, baleful, jeering reiteration those words which she had written were racing through
his brain. "I am very happy to-night, and I wanted to tell you so ... happy to-night ... happy
to-night ... happy to-night." Happy to-night--what depth of irony! Happy to-night--and they
had caught her--as the "way was clearing"----with the end of peril, with the end of the miserable,
hunted existence she had been forced to lead just in sight! Silver Mag--the Tocsin! And he--he,
who, too, had been happy to-night, he, who had known that mighty uplift upon him, he, who had
dreamed that the morrow might bring life and love and sunshine--he was facing now a blackness
of despair that he had never known before. Unwittingly, if such danger as she was in could
be made the greater, he had made it so. If the underworld was the implacable enemy of Silver
Mag, because Silver Mag was known as the ally in the old days of Larry the Bat, and known,
therefore, as the ally of the Gray Seal; so, for the same reason exactly, the police were her
implacable enemy! And, whether she fell into the hands of one or the other, the end ultimately
differed only in the method by which her death would be accomplished; it was murder at the
hands of the Mole and his gang; it was the death chair in Sing Sing as an accomplice of the
Gray Seal at the hands of the police. "Death to the Gray Seal!"----that was the slogan of the
underworld. "The Gray Seal dead or alive--but the Gray Seal"--that was the fiat of the police.
And both held good for Silver Mag! With the Mole alone there might have been a chance--but
now, he had launched the police as well against her, had sent them to the Mole's, for that
was the first place they would raid in their hunt for the Pippin.

The sweat beads started out on Jimmie Dale's forehead. She had discarded the character of "Silver
Mag" that night in the tenement fire when he had discarded the character of "Larry the Bat"--and
"Silver Mag" had never been seen again until to-night. But he, Jimmie Dale, had appeared since
then as Larry the Bat--and for some reason to-night she must have found it necessary, in working
out her plans to their consummation no doubt, to have assumed again the character of Silver
Mag--and she had been caught! But the Mole, it was absolutely certain, if left alone, would
first exhaust every means within his power of forcing from Silver Mag the information that
he would naturally believe she had concerning the whereabouts of the Gray Seal, before wreaking
the vengeance of the underworld upon her; but equally the Mole, if interrupted by the police,
would, in a sort of barbarous rivalry, if he, Jimmie Dale, knew the underworld at all, never
surrender Silver Mag--alive. It would be the old cry, hideously worded, as he had heard it
that night of the long ago in the attack on the old Sanctuary--the Gray Seal and Silver Mag
were their "meat!" Something like a moan was wrung from Jimmie Dale's lips. With the police
out of it there would have been time; with the police a factor, granted even that the Mole
gave her up, her death was certain.

The mind works swiftly. An eternity seemed bridged as he stood there against the door, his
hands pressed to his temples--in reality scarcely a second had passed. Time! It was like a
clarion call, that word, clearing his brain, lashing him into instant action. There was time,
a small, pitifully inadequate margin, but yet a margin--the few minutes left before Carruthers
would have the police hammering at the Mole's door. There was a chance, still a chance to save
her life. And if he succeeded in getting her away from the Mole's--what then! It would be touch
and go! What of the afterwards--a means of retreat--a temporary sanctuary? Yes, yes--he must
think of everything!

He was working with mad speed now, stripping off his clothes, delving into that secret hiding
place behind the movable section of the base-board near the door. And now the gas, with its
poverty-stricken, meagre, yellow flame, illuminated the place dimly--and Jimmie Dale, with
his make-up box and a cracked mirror, worked against the flying minutes. There was only one
way to go--as Larry the Bat. It would give the Mole and the underworld nothing to work on afterwards
if Larry the Bat went to the rescue of Silver Mag; and if he won through there would then still
be "Smarlinghue's" sanctuary, this place here, as a temporary refuge. The transformation to
Larry the Bat stole an extra minute or two from the priceless store, but it was the only way--to
risk it as Smarlinghue or Jimmie Dale, to risk recognition, would be the act of a fool, for
it would render abortive the initial success, if, by any means, he could succeed even to that
extent. Thank God for the circumstances that, prior to this, had led him to duplicate Larry
the Bat's disreputable apparel; thank God for one chance of life--for her--that this afforded now.

The gas was out again, the room was in darkness. Through the little French window, and hugged
close against the wall of the tenement, and through the loose Aboard in the fence that gave
egress to the lane, Jimmie Dale, as Larry the Bat now, slunk along. And then, in the lane,
he broke into a run. And now, an added peril came--a glimpse of Larry the Bat by any of gangland's
fraternity, man or woman, and it would be the end! His position now was analogous to hers as
Silver Mag before she had been caught! There would be no parley--it would be the end! But that
was the chance he took, the only chance there was--for her.

But Jimmie Dale knew the East Side. By alleys and lanes, through yards and over fences, Jimmie
Dale made his way along; and when forced into the open to cross a street, it was a dark, ill-lighted
section that was chosen, and where for a short distance here and there he must needs keep to
the street he held deep in the shadows of the buildings, crouching in doorways to avoid passers-by.
It took time--he dared not calculate how long. Carruthers was not the man to let the grass
grow under his feet! Carruthers would probably, before leaving home, have telephoned some Headquarters'
man to meet him--the detective would have telephoned Headquarters from Melinoff's--and after
that it would not take the police long to reach the Mole's!

It took time, this tortuous threading of the East Side--he did not know how long it had taken--but
at last, as he swung into a long, black, and very narrow alleyway, he drew a quick breath of
relief. So far, at least, he was ahead of the police. It was still and silent, there was no
sound of any disturbance, and the Mole's now was only a little way ahead. He stole forward
noiselessly. It was very quiet--much more quiet even than usual in that far from savoury neighbourhood.
He remembered, with a grim smile of satisfaction, that the Wowzer had explained there was to
be no crowding for front seats for fear of attracting the attention of the police. It had been
very thoughtful of the Mole to pass that word around--very! With the underworld, prompted by
curiosity and seething with hate, swarming here, the single chance he, Jimmie Dale, had of
reaching her would have been swept away. He paused now, his lips set hard, crouched by the
fence that separated the Mole's backyard from the alleyway. His plan was simple; but it depended
for its ultimate success almost entirely on his ability to secure an instant means of disappearance
for the Tocsin the moment she was outside the Mole's walls. That he could find her, that he
could get her out of the house was another matter--he could only trust to his wits and nerve
in that respect. But if he succeeded in that, then--he moved silently a little further up the
lane, crossed to the other side and halted again, this time before the back door of a shed.
In an instant his picklock was at work; in another he had opened the door a bare fraction of
an inch. His lips grew tighter, as he retraced his steps to the Mole's fence. If that shed
were ever needed at all, there would not be time to fumble in the dark for knob or latch--and
there would be no necessity for that fumbling now! From the shed there was a very sure means
of escape across a small intervening yard, and out through an areaway into the street, for
the shed was one of the many entrances to Foo Sen's, a place with which he was very intimately
acquainted--all this, of course, provided that, if the Tocsin were seen to enter the shed,
some one held the pursuers back long enough to afford her time to reach the street.

Jimmie Dale shrugged his shoulders, as he opened a low gate in the fence silently and stepped
through, into the yard beyond, leaving the gate open behind him. He was not a fool, blinded
to what probably lay ahead! He could not hope to reach the Tocsin, much less effect her rescue,
without warning the inmates of this house that loomed up before him now, without a fight with
the Mole and the Mole's gangsters. It was not likely that he could reach the shelter of that
shed, but the Tocsin could, and, once inside, throwing away her cloak and wig, "Silver Mag"
would disappear, and after that there was the Sanctuary, and then her own brave wits. There
came a queer twist to Jimmie Dale's lips, and then a shrug of his shoulders again. It was not
likely to be the ending to the night that he had thought it might be when sitting there in
Bristol Bob's only a few short hours ago!

Faint streaks of light through the interstices of a shuttered window showed just in front of
him, as he stole forward across the yard. Window or back door, it mattered little to Jimmie
Dale now, so that he could gain an entry into the house unobserved. It was very quiet--even
ominously quiet--that impression came to him suddenly again. The quarter here was full of dives
and gambling hells and resorts frequented by the worst in crimeland--but it seemed that the
Mole's injunction had been obeyed to the letter! It boded little good--for her! Jimmie Dale's
face, under the grime of Larry the Bat's make-up, grew white and set, as he approached the
window. God in Heaven, was he already too late! The Mole, with his little tobacco shop in front
as a blind, and his rooms above rented to "lodgers," thus housing the gang of Apaches that
worked under his leadership, had had every opportunity, once the Tocsin was in his power in
there, of doing as he would. And then another thought came flashing quick upon him. If they
had gone that far, if she were dead, they must have discovered that under the cloak and the
gray, straggling hair of Silver Mag--was Marie LaSalle. He forced a grip of iron upon himself,
fighting mentally like a madman with himself for his self-control. The night with every passing
moment seemed yawning wider and wider before him in a chasm that threatened ruin, and disaster,
and the wreckage of everything that in life was worth the living, and--no,' Not yet! The luck
had turned! She was there! Silver Mag was there! There! And safe so far!

The window was shoulder high. He was peering in through the blind. There was no light in the
room itself, but a faint glow came in through the open doorway of a lighted room beyond--enough
to enable him to make out a woman's form, the grizzled hair streaming over the threadbare cloak,
as she lay on a cheap cot across the room, her face to the wall, her hands bound together behind
her back.

It was Jimmie Dale working with all the art he knew; now; and those slim, sensitive, wonderful
fingers were swift and silent as they had never been before. A steel jimmy loosened the shutters,
and they swung apart with out a sound. He could see better now--see, at least, that she was
alone in the room. He tapped softly on the window pane. It was too dark to see her face, but
he saw her raise her head quickly, and then, evidently, quick to meet an emergency as she always
was, rise from the cot and steal to the edge of the open door. He was working at the window
now. A fever of anxiety was him--it seemed that his fingers stumbled, that they lost their
cunning, that an eternity passed as she stood there apparently on guard by the door, her bound
hands behind her back like some piteous appeal to him to hurry--to hurry--and, in the name
of all that life meant to both of them, to make haste. At night he often went to them up
to talk with the inhabitants of heaven, and on the day he loved it, on a hillside to sit and talk
to the listening people. But now they took him to a mountain, to crucify him. They beat nails
through his hands and feet and hung the good king to a cross, when he was a predator and an offender.

"And
the people mocked him.

Only his mother and his friends were crying, because he died , Before he had reached it, to
become king.

"Oh, things like the dead mourned at his death! The sun lost its luster, Mountains shook, the
veil of the temple was torn in two, and the graves were opened, thus
the dead could go out and show their pain. - - -

"Since the little
girl was lying with his head in the lap of his grandmother and sobbed,
as should her heart .

Break

"Do not cry, raised my child, the good king is out of his grave and to his father ascended into
heaven.

"Grandmother sobbed the little one, because he was never a kingdom?

He sits at God's right hand in heaven.

"But they are not reassured. She was crying so desperately and constantly, as only a child can
cry.

"Why were they so angry with him? Why they could be so angry with him?

"The old man was almost frightened at the excessive pain of the child.

"Grandmother, grandmother, say that you have not properly told that it is not so ended! Say, that
they were not as bad against the good king! Say that he received a kingdom here on earth!

"She threw her arms around the neck of the old and begged and cried
incessantly.

"Child, child! said to the grandmother to comfort her.

There are people who believe that he will come again.

Then he will submit to the earth and govern it, and there is the
earth a beautiful kingdom.

Implementation made a thousand years.

As to the bad Animals are good, small children are playing at the
nest of snakes, bears and sheep are feed together peacefully.

People will not harm each other to do more, the skewers be turned
into scythes and swords into plowshares.

And all will delight and joy be, for the good to be the inheritors
of the earth.

"There was transfigured the face of the little ones in tears.

"Then the good king gets a throne, grandmother?

"A golden throne, my darling.

"And servants and courtiers, and a golden crown?

"Yes, he gets everything.

"He'll soon be a grandmother?

"No one knows when he will come.

"May I then sit on a stool at his feet?

"Yes, you may, my heart.

"Grandmother, I am so happy! says the little girl.

"Night after night, sat through many winters, these two by the fire and talked of the good
King and his kingdom.

The little girl dreamed day and night of the thousand-year Reich; she was never tired, it embellish
with all the beauty that she could only imagine.

"So it is to silent the many children we see around us and they contribute to with secret dreams
that they dare not utter. It rains, strange thoughts under the soft hair, soft brown eyes
see strange things behind the reduced Eyelids. More than a beautiful girl has her bridegroom
in heaven, with over one wishes to to anoint the feet of the good king and with her hair to
dry.

Ebba Dohna dared not express their thoughts, but since that evening,
she lived only for the return of the Lord and for his thousand-year
Reich.

"If the lock on the evening western horizon opened its golden doors,
she thought, whether he probably is not now in its radiance from prominent,
followed by a host of pass by angels to her and would allow to touch
a corner of his robe.

She also thought like the pious women who had loved him safe as hot
as she, and the nuns had hung the veil over her head and her eyes
never raised from the floor, but closed in the silence of the monastery
gray, in the darkness of the small Cells to always see the bright
faces that emerge from the night of the soul.

"It Was As she grew up, so she was when she and the new tutor to the lonely Paths of the park met.

"I
will not say more ill of him when I am forced to say.

I will like to believe that he loved this child, who soon chose him to accompany him on his
solitary walks.

I believe that his soul grew wings again when it next to this silent Child was associated
that had never trusted another, and I think that he as himself like a kid again felt good and
happy.

"When he really loved, so he did not then because he does not lower
their could give as a gift of his love?

He, one of the outcast of the world, what he wanted, what he thought as he walked along the
side of the child count? What thought the remote Pastor, while he was entrusted their pious
dreams? He, a drunkard, a bully had been, and it would be resumed as soon as he had the opportunity
presented itself, which he wanted on the side of the young child
who dreamed of a groom in the sky?

Why He fled not far away from her? Would not it have been better for him as a beggar or a thief
wander in the land, as there to stroll in the silent alleys and back fromm and be well, if the
life he had led, but not reversed could be avoided and it was not that Ebba Dohna loved him?

"Do not think that he looked like a poor drunken man, with pale cheeks
and red eyes.

He was still a handsome man, handsome and strong, with an attitude like a king and with an
iron body that was able to make the wildest life resistance. "

"Is he still alive?" Asked the countess.

"Oh no, now he's probably dead - it's so long since all this happened!"

In Anna Stjarnhok interior awakens a fear of what they do.

She decides the Countess never to say who the man of whom she speaks, but to have them in the
belief that he has long since died.

"At that time he was young," she continues, the joy "in life was again in his soul inflamed,
he had the gift of the Word and a fiery, slightly enthusiastic heart.

"It's an evening hour in which he said Ebba Dohna of love came. She did not answer, they told
him only what her grandmother had told her on winter evenings, and described him the land of their
dreams. And then she took off his vow. She made him swear that he wanted to become a preacher
of the word, one of them to the Lord to prepare the way so that his return would be stepped up.

"What
should he do? He was a deposed priest, and no way was it closed so
as the to enter she asked of him.

But he dared not tell her the truth. He did not dare to afflict this lovely child, he loved. He
promised everything she demanded.

"One more debate is needed not between them.

He was sure that she once his wife would be.

There was no love with kisses and caresses. He hardly dared her to approach, she was sensitive as
a fine flower. Sometimes, however, she raised her brown eyes, to search his. If they were sitting
at moonlit evenings on the porch, she leaned to him, and then he kissed her hair without her noticing.

"You
see, his sin was that he forgot the past and future.

That he is poor and was low, he might like to forget that he had in mind but need to know that
the day was inevitable, in her heart where love got to love where
earth and sky together fought, where she was forced between him and
the splendid ruler of the millennial to choose the Empire.

But she was not calculated to endure such a struggle.

"One summer, an autumn and winter passed. When spring came and the ice melted, Ebba Dohna ill.
In the valleys, roaring rivers to the swollen rivers, the hills were covered with ice and slush,
the roads were impassable for cars as for carriage.

"There was the Countess Dohna Karlstad to send to the doctor. There was no one else nearby.
But their orders were in vain. Neither entreaties nor threats they could their Servants to move,
to make their way.

She threw herself in front of the driver on his knees, But he said
no. She had convulsions and hysterical fits of grief for her daughter
- Countess Marta is wild in pain as in joy.

Ebba Dohna had pneumonia, and her life was in danger, a doctor, but
could are not taken.

"Since the tutor went to Karlstad.

To make the journey in such weather, meant Lives put at risk - but
he did.

It went on surging ice and breakneck smooth Hills, sometimes he had
to cut steps for the horse in the ice, sometimes he had it from the
Pull out the deep mud of the muddy road.

It was said that the doctor had refused to to come with him, he got him the gun in his hand
forced.

"When he came back, was the Countess the verge of throwing themselves at his feet. Take everything,
I have, she said, my daughter, my estate, my money - say you just
do what you!

Her daughter, Madame, "replied the tutor." -

Since Anna Stjarnhok suddenly silent.

"Well, then, and then," asked the young Countess Elizabeth.

"Now it may be enough," replied Anna, for she is one of those unfortunate children of men, living in fear
and trembling of the doubt. She has now done a whole week. She does not know what she wants.
What are you the one hour appears to be quite as early as the next
to injustice.

Now she hopes never to have started the story.

"I do believe you want me to fools, Anna. Do not you understand, then, that the I hear the end
of this story? must "

"There is not much to tell. - The moment of the fight was for the young Ebba Dohna come to love
rose against love, heaven and earth were wrestling with each other.

"Countess Marta told her about the dangerous journey that the young
man for her sake had made, and they told her that she promised him
a reward for her daughter's hand have.

"The young Miss Ebba at the time was as much in relief that she dressed in a Sofa was. She was
weak and pale, and even quieter than usual

"When they heard these words, she raised her brown eyes plaintive and reproachful to the Mother and
said: Mother, you have given me a remote parish priest, one who exercises his right forfeited
has to be God's servant, a man who was a thief and a beggar!

"But a child who has it all because you told? I thought you knew you anything about it.

"I learned it by accident. I heard your guests talking about it -
it was the same day, when I fell ill.

"But child, but remember that
he has saved your life!

"I think the fact that he has cheated me. He should have told me who he is.

He says that you love him.

"I've done. I can not love that I was deceived.

"What he has deceived you?

"That you can not understand, Mother.

"They did not want to talk to her mother about the thousand-year kingdom
of their dreams in the achievement of her lover had to help.

"Ebba said the Countess, if you love him, you shall not ask what it was he, but you marry him.
Who married the Countess Dohna is so rich and so powerful that his youthful sins are already forgiven
him.

"Remember that I gave him my word, Ebba!

     "The young girl turned pale.
     
     "Mother, I tell you, if you marry me with him, you
     part me from God.
     
     "I have decided to make your fortune, says the
     Countess. I am convinced that with you this man to
     be happy. It is you, did not have succeeded to make
     him a saint.

     
     "I have decided to overlook the class difference and to forget
     that he is poor and despised, to give you the opportunity
     to save him. I feel that I do what is right. You know
     that I despise all the old prejudices.
     
     "But all things she says just because she does not like that
     someone opposes their will. Maybe they meant it when she said it.
     From Countess Marta is not easy clever be.

     
     "The young girl was lying on her bed long after the countess
     had left her. She fought her battle. The ground level
     with the sky, love rebelled against love, but the lover of
     her childhood was the day. Where it was - it was here on the
     Sofa - they saw the glowing western sky at sunset.
     She believed that it is a Greetings from the good King was, and she
     had no strength to remain faithful to him, if they would live,
     so she decided to die.

     She could not help because her mother demanded that they
     should belong to a man who was not a good servant of the king.

She
     went to the window, opened it and let the damp, cold evening
     air her poor, weak Body by iron.
     
     "She was easy to incur death. It was inevitable if the
     disease is again stopped, and she did.
     
     "No one but me knows that they investigated the death, Elizabeth.

     I found her at the window. I heard their delirium. She wanted me in
     recent days to retain on their side.
     
     "I saw her die, I saw her in that evening hour, the hands
     to the glowing evening sky and divorce with a smile, as though
     someone they stretch from the splendor of the sunset and come
     out to see her meet. I had him, she had loved her last Greeting
     deliver. I should ask him to forgive her, that she not be his
     wife could. The good King did not want to allow.

     
     "But I have not had the courage to tell the man that he was
     her killer. I have not had the courage to put him to the weight
     of such anguish on his shoulders. And yet - he, of their
     love to surreptitiously through lies, he was not her killer?
     Was he not, Elisabeth? "-
     
     The young countess has long since ceased to play with the blue
     flowers. Now raises they, and the branch falls to the ground.

"Anna, you lead me all the time behind the light. You say it was an old story, the man was already
long dead, but I know very well that barely five years since Ebba
Dohna Death have passed, and you say yes, that you yourself have experienced.

You are not old! - Tell me now who is the man!

"

Anna Stjarnhok starts to laugh.

"You did indeed have a love story!

Now you got one that you both tears and unrest has cost.

"

"Is the story because it not?"

"It's a pipe dream from beginning to end!"

"You're disgusting, Anna!"

That may be. " I am also not happy to let you just know it! - But the ladies are awakened, and
the gentlemen came into the room. Let us go! "

In the door keeps Gosta Berling back, who came to check on the young ladies.

"You have to be patient with me," he says, laughing. "I do not want more than ten minutes To torture
but now you have to listen to some verses!

"

He tells them that he had dreamed in the night as lively as ever, and that He had dreamed that he
had written verses.

He whom the people called the "poet", even though he nicknamed this
been borne entirely deterministic as no fault was in the middle of
the night got up and had, half asleep, half awake sat down to write.

And in the morning he had a whole poem displayed on the desktop. He had himself never have
believed such a thing! Now, the Women's hear it. And it reads:

"The moon rose, and with it came the hour, Engenders in the soul the dream thoughts. Lit by
moonlight, the bright silver certificates Shines the porch roof for
every man, tendrils of vine leaves.

In the winds of the lily cup varies from sniffing rocks.

On the veranda steps, for an evening round Are united young and old, and old songs way The
still lives in the heart ertönet, gentle and quiet, As further time
greeting in solemn hour.

From her Resedabeet us umwehn sweet scents Whispering shadows floating
up out of the bushes, branches On the grass surface, moistened by
overnight dew: So the Spirit Strive to rise in heaven's heights From
the body to the night light that shines eternally us From the bright
cloud, where a clear and clean the air And in the infinite space of
the stars vanish from view.

O, who can overcome the silence of the night the feelings urge When
shadows draw near him and intoxicating scents of the flowers!

Like the withered leaf, the tired senket to earth, Quietly fluttering there, if you bloom the
rose accomplished Not bent by the storm: then want as we go, How verhallet the tones sound, when
our life ends to Still and silent, as in autumn the leaves blow in the wind. And satisfied with
the way God as gelenket, Our annual target and the path that we should move down here: Death
is life's reward, so let us depart in peace, As the rose leaf wilting on the ground softly to senket.

Past, the bat flew silently on their wings And back in the moonlight at a rapid zigzag flight,
And as she flutters back and forth, rising in our hearts The old riddle unsolved for fools as Kluge
The mystery, as heavy as grief and sorrow, as old as the love of pain: Where is our life,
where he will bring us If we do not walk here on earth in woods and fields? Alas, no one can guide
the path of the mind probably the other; Rather 'it still shows the
way the bird's light wings.

And clinging tightly to me, she puts my hair and cheeks, She who loves me, to my breast and speaks
in a low whisper: 'In other worlds will never entschweben the souls
of all, And if dim shadow of death, my eyes may, For you, you want
hot lover, I still live on: Of a good man's heart is then enveloped
my spirit!

" Oh, what pain, so severe suffering, so anxious to take pain! They die! - And for the last time I
will tell her today: 'I love you! " and kiss on the mouth and hair and cheeks!

Years faded away - yet often in the early hours of I search the place to me, where I once sat caressing,
Where my mouth they kissed, but I see illuminated by the moon Hell the porch roof, then I can never
forget As the moon is seen that tears moistened her eyes, As she spoke, from the vagina, the
beloved, with trembling lips. Oh, the memories torment! How can I atone for the sin That the
storm I gazed into the breast to the innocent child And it tied to
me in that unhappy hour! "

Gosta, "Anna says in a jesting tone, while
the fear together constricted her throat. "One said of you that you
have experienced more poems, as others have written that it is occupy
their lives with nothing more, but you sure do best on your own Way
to write poetry: the poem as night work "!

"You're not a gentle judge."

"And
something to read of the death and misery! Are not you ashamed? "

Gosta
do not hear more on their speeches, he looks intently at the young
countess. She sits rigid and motionless as a statue. He believes that
she is about to faint.

But with infinite pains it brings out a word:
"Go," she says.

"Who should go? Should I go? "

go to "The priest,"
she stammered.

"Elizabeth! Be quiet. "

"The drunk priest to leave
my house!"

"Anna! Anna! Asks Gosta. "What does she mean it?"

"It
is best if you go, Gosta."

"Why should I go? What does this mean
anything? "

"Anna," says Countess Elisabeth, "tell them, tell it
to him."

"No, countess, say so myself!"

The Countess grits his teeth
and looks of their movement under control.

"Mr. Berling," she says,
and goes up to him, "You have a remarkable talent, the people forgot
to make, who you are. I did not know to this day. I hear tell just
by Ebba Dohna death and found out that only the certainty that the
Man she loved, was not worthy of her, she has driven to death. From
your poem I see that you are the man. I do not understand how a man
of your past allowed to be seen before the eyes of a respectable woman.
I do not understand, Mr. Berling. If I have been clear enough now?
"

"Countess are clear enough now. I just want a single word in my
defense . Say I have lived in the firm belief that you knew everything
about me. I have never tried something to hide, but it is not pleasant,
the bitter misfortune of his life on streets and listen to hawk streets,
let alone to trumpet it himself. "

He goes, and at the same moment
is Countess Dohna the narrow foot on the bouquet blue stars.

"Now
hast thou done what I wanted," said Anna Stjarnhok hard to the countess,
"but now It has also an end to our friendship. You must not think
that I will thy cruelty forgive him against going. You have rejected
him from you, have mocked him and hurt and I followed him into prison,
like the beggar bank if it must be. I want him guard and preserve.
You have done what I wanted, but I'll never forgive you! "

"But Anna,
Anna!"

"When I told you all that, you believe that I did with a joyful
sense? I not sitting here and I ripped the heart piece by piece from
the breast? "

"Why didst thou for it?"

"Why? Because I did not want
to - because I did not want that he is the lover of a married Woman
should be. "

Mademoiselle Marie

Ah, hush! St!

It hums above my
head! That must be a bee that is flying.

But no, it was only still!
What a smell! As I live, are not the Levkoien and lavender and lilacs
and daffodils? This is a real treat on this gray autumn afternoon
in the middle of the city. When I think of the delightful spot, it
starts around around me to smell the same, and to hum, and before
I have confidence, I find myself middle of a small, square rose garden
full of flowers, enclosed by a Ligustrumhecke. In the corners are
lilac bowers, with narrow wooden benches, and around the flower beds,
like stars and hearts are shaped, runs the narrow, covered with white
sand trail. On three sides of the rose garden is surrounded by forest.
Rowan and septic trees which semi-civilized and have beautiful flowers,
the garden are first and mix their fragrance with the the lilac bushes.
Behind them comes the birch, and then starts the fir forest, the right
Forest, still and dark, towering and bearded.

And on the fourth side
is a small, gray house.

The Rose Garden, to which I now think was,
sixty years ago the property of the old woman Moraeus, who supported
herself by embroidering. She also went as a woman cooking on the surrounding
Farms.

Dear friends! Of all the good that I wish you, I want first
of an embroidery frame and name a rose garden. A large, old-fashioned
hoop of the type in which five or six people at a time can work, where
one competes, who is the rate- and has had whose other face is the
prettiest stitches, where to eat apples and social Play games and
so while laughing, that the squirrels fall in terror from the trees.
A hoop for the winter and a rose garden for the summer! Not a big
garden, in which one must dig into more money than it emporsproßt
pleasure again, no one small rose garden you can cultivate with their
own hands.
But Marre, too, has disappeared--you understand, Jimmie? And now, hidden, under cover, never
showing himself personally, 'Clarke' is working, not only to reach me, but to further all his
other schemes, through some agency without appearing himself either as Marre or as 'Clarke.'
I believe it is only a matter of a few hours now before I shall either have got to the bottom
of who and what this agency is, or else--again do not let us mince matters, Jimmie--'Clarke'
will have been too much for me. And in that latter case is found the whole object of this letter.
Once I am removed from his path, and believing that no one else could, or would, link 'Clarke'
and Peter Marre together, he will naturally resume the freedom of his former life, and Peter
Marre will appear again in his old-time surroundings, a Peter Marre unhampered by fear of discovery,
and therefore a Peter Marre a hundredfold more dangerous than ever before. And so, Jimmie,
if that should happen, you have simply to get this information into the hands of the police
without appearing yourself, say, through the agency of the Gray Sealand I shall not have brought
you into the shadows again."

The letter was signed simply--"Marie." But there was a postscript:

"You will hear from me the moment that I can tell you I am free at last."

Jimmie Dale sat staring at the postscript. He made no movement; and there was no sound in the
room, save that the sheets of paper crackled slightly in his hand. He was afraid to-night,
afraid as he had never been in his life before; and the fear that was gnawing at his heart
was mirrored in a gray, rigid face, and in the misery that had crept into the dark, half-closed
eyes. It was three days ago since he had received that letter, and the awaited, promised word
had not come--three days, and the letter stated that it would be but a matter of a few hours
before the decision that meant life or death was reached. And the hurried little note, so obviously
written subsequent to the letter, though it had been received prior to it, but bore out in
its very optimism the fact that the final card was then almost in the very act of being played.
And since then--there had been nothing.

He put little faith in the Pippin's belief that she had gone to Chicago. He found no relief
in that possibility at all. That they had seen her buy a ticket and board a train--yes. That
for her own ends she had let them see her do that--yes. But whether she had ever gone or not
was quite a different matter! Her letter would certainly indicate that she had not. But even
if she had! She could have communicated with him from Chicago just as easily as she could have
communicated with him from any place here in New York!

Jimmie Dale's hand lifted and pressed hard against his temple, as though to still the dull,
constant throbbing that brought to his mental agony the added torment of physical pain. For
these three days now he had fought with mind and body and soul against the one conclusion that
was tenable--the conclusion which to-night, robbing him of every hope in life, bringing a grief
and anguish greater than he could bear, cold logic was finally forcing him to accept. She would
have known the torment of anxiety in which he lived, and if her plans had only been delayed
or checked, if it had been no more than that, she would surely have communicated with him and
allayed his fears.

A low sound, a moan of bitter pain, came from Jimmie Dale's lips. Logic had won at last, and
was triumphant in the blackest hour that had ever come into his life. The one glimmer of hope
to which, as time went on and one by one other hopes had vanished, he had still clung tenaciously,
had surrendered, too, and gone down before the face of that brutal logic that weighed neither
human agony nor suffering in its remorseless conclusions. Clarke, it was true, had not yet
resumed his former life as Peter Marre--but he, Jimmie Dale, was forced to admit now that that
meant little or nothing. A thousand and one reasons might account for Clarke postponing his
re-entry into his old life--that the man had allowed three days to pass proved nothing.

Marre! Peter Marre! Wizard Marre! A smile that held no mirth hovered for an instant over Jimmie
Dale's lips. Yes, he knew Marre, Marre of the underworld, well! The man was brilliant, clever--and
possessed of a devil's soul! Also Marre, as certainly no other man had ever held it, held the
confidence of crimeland--and crime-land had supplied the tricky lawyer with his clientele.
And so Marre was "Clarke," one of the leaders of the old Crime Club! Jimmie Dale's smile disappeared,
and his lips drew straight and tight together. It was quite easily understood now. The returns
in a financial sense from such a clientele, large even as they perhaps might be, were meagre
and pitiful in comparison with the huge sums which, in one way and another, the Crime Club
would have acquired; but the returns in another sense had been vast and of incalculable value,
not only to Clarke, but to the Crime Club as well. Clarke's power in the underworld as Marre
had reached the height where the underworld itself eulogised that power by bestowing on the
man the "moniker" of Wizard, investing him, as it were, with a title and a peerage in that
inglorious realm. And this power, supplying a foreknowledge of events through intimacy with
those whispered secrets in the innermost circles of the citizenry of crimeland, must have been
of immeasurable worth. And now Clarke, hidden away somewhere, acting, it appeared, through
some unknown agency and go-between, was utilising that power with deadly cunning and effect--not
only against the Tocsin, but against society at large, as witness the murder of Forrester of
a few days ago, and presumably the murder of Jathan Lane, the banker, not longer ago than this
afternoon.

Jimmie Dale shook his head suddenly. Acting through some unknown agency? The Tocsin had not
said that. Indeed, if she had been as near to the final move in this battle of wits which she
had been playing for months, as her letter indicated, she must have known by now who and what
and where that agency was. And he could see plainly enough why she had kept her own counsel
in that respect. It was through her great, unselfish love for him that she had intentionally
refrained from giving him any clue that would enable him to find his way into the danger zone
which she reserved for herself alone. Yes, he understood that--but it only made what he feared
now the harder to bear. She had been right, of course, in her conclusion as to what he would
have done had she given him the opportunity! It was the one thing he had been fighting for,
struggling for, battling for all these months, that clue--and she had told him only that "Clarke"
was behind it all, and that "Clarke" was Peter Marre. And it had served him little! As though
the earth had opened and swallowed the man and his alias up, there was neither trace nor sign
of Peter Marre.

He knew that well! He had not been idle since that letter came! He had instantly seized upon
what he had hoped would prove the clue that he could follow to the heart of the web--and the
clue had led him nowhere. Marre, like the Tocsin, was somewhere "on a trip." Marre's office
was not closed. A year ago Marre had taken in with him as partner a young lawyer by the name
of Cleaver, who lacked only, through experience, the same degree of dishonest finesse and cunning
possessed by Marre himself--a defect which Marre had doubtless counted on speedily rectifying
under his own unholy tutelage! Cleaver was carrying on the business. To all inquiries Cleaver's
replies had been the same--Mr. Marre, through overwork, had been obliged to take a rest; he
did not know where Mr. Marre was other than that Mr. Marre was making an extended tour through
the Orient, nor did he know when Mr. Marre might be expected to return; Mr. Marre, purposely,
in order that he might escape all thought and care of business, and to preclude the possibility
of anything of that nature reaching him, had refrained from giving the office any specific
address. But he, Jimmie Dale, had not been content with inquiries alone in those last few days--though
the result here again had been nothing. He was satisfied only that, in so far as the main issue
was concerned, Cleaver was not in Marre's confidence, and that Cleaver not only did not know
Marre's exact whereabouts, but believed, as he had said, that Marre was travelling somewhere
in the Orient.

Jimmie Dale drew his hand heavily again across his forehead. It seemed as though the very act
of sitting here was a traitorous act to her, that even in this momentary inaction he had cause
for bitter self-reproach and even for contempt--and yet he could see no way now to take. In
the last three days, as Smarlinghue, as Jimmie Dale, yes, even as Larry the Bat again, working
with feverish intensity, with almost sleepless continuity, he had exhausted every means and
effort within his power of running Marre, alias Clarke, to earth. There seemed nothing now
left to do but to wait until Marre should resume his own identity; nothing left but the promise
of a vengeance that--again Jimmie Dale laughed harshly, and, as the laugh died away, a smile
took its place on the thinned lips that was not good to see. Yes, she was right in that; he
knew Marre--he knew Marre, with his thin, cruel face, his black, sleepy eyes; his suave, ingratiating
manner that hid under its veneer a devil's treachery! The paint is schilpert, the Kroll
hair in the back seat and the upholstery looks out of the holes that the moths have eaten.
"Let us rest, let us fall apart," said the old fellow. "We have long hobbled enough on the roads,
and we have enough moisture from rain and snow imbibed in us. Let us rest! Long has it been since
we the young men to their first ball exports, long ago, as we freshly washed and gleaming on
the magnificent Adventures of the sleigh took off when we merry heroes on soggy trails in the Stock
of Trosnäs contributed. Sleep, most of them, but the last and best Ekeby will never leave, never
again! "

And then bursts the upper, and then solve the rings from the wheels to rot, then Spokes and
wheel bolts and the old fellow to make living for nothing more from that responsibility, they
want to die. The dust is already on them like a shroud, and under his protection let them age
gain power over them. In an undisturbed life, they are lazy since fallen and. No one uses them,
yet they are destroyed. Once a year, going on the door of the carriage shed when a new friend
has come to establish himself at Ekeby wants, and when the door is closed again, lies down fatigue,
sleep, old age also about the new arrivals. Mice and moths and wood worms and how they like to welcome
all, prevent the robbery onlookers, over him, and it rusts and falls apart in a quiet, dreamless
sleep.

But now in the February night leaves the door wide open the major's wife. By the light of lanterns
and lights, they can carry out the vehicles, are the knights of the present Ekeby: Beer Creutz 'old
and carriages Örneclous emblazoned carriage, and the narrow carriage, crept along in the Cousin
Christopher. Whether it is winter or summer companion, it returns
they are not.

It provides only for the fact that everyone gets his.

And in the stable they are aroused, all the old gentleman horses that filled just before the Creches
dreamed. Once more to the dream come true, her careless! You shall again the musty hay in the
stables of travel inns eat you shall tremble before the whip Knut
the drunken horse traders and the mad races on the shimmering ice
so smooth is that it shakes about to enter it.

Schick is now the right over the old mate when the little gray mountain horses before a high,
skeleton-like Gigg be clamped, or if the long-legged, bony Equestrian horses to the low Spitz sled
be harnessed. The old animals snorting and , Whinny when they are out of Stangenzaum into
the toothless mouth, the creaking old companion and scream. Miserable frailty, permission would have
to, to the end sleep in peace in the world, is now dragged into daylight,
stiff knees, crippled front legs, Spat and crop emerge.

The grooms, it is possible but yet to harness all of them.

Then they go to the major's wife and ask to have what a wagon Gosta Berling, because like God,
and everyone knows, came He drove the coal truck in the major's wife to Ekeby.

»Clamps Don Juan before our best sled," says the Baroness, "and spreads the bearskin . And the
silver bells about And murmurs as the groom, she says, "There is no Horse in my stable, I would
not give to get rid of the guy have to, you know! "

So, now the companion aroused and the horses, but the Cavaliers are still sleeping. Now the series
is up to them to be brought out into the winter night.

But it is a daring Indeed, attacking them in their beds, pull out as stiff-legged horses and
old, dilapidated cars.

They are bold, strong, dangerous men, hardened by hundreds of adventures. They are willing to look
up to defend to the last drop of blood, it is not an easy thing,
they against their will to get out of bed and down into the cars,
which are to lead from there.

Then the major's wife can light a straw rent, which is so close
to the court, that the appearance of the sleeping knights must throw
light.

"The straw rent is mine, all mine Ekeby," she says. And when
the rent in flames as she calls: "Now she awakens!"

But the Cavaliers
sleep wohlverriegelten behind doors.

"Will you need me any further, sir?" Benson asked.

Jimmie Dale was lighting a cigarette deliberately--it was the same question that he was pondering
in his own mind, but the answer was dependent upon the contents of that note which was waiting
for him in the Sanctuary.

"I am not quite sure, Benson," he replied. "In any case, you had better wait here for twenty,
minutes. If I am not back in that time, you may go home. Don't wait any longer."

"Very good, sir," Benson answered.

It was only a short distance to the Sanctuary--down the cross street, a turn into another only
to emerge again on one that paralleled the first, and then Jimmie Dale, walking slowly now,
was sauntering along an ill-lighted thoroughfare flanked on either side with a miscellany of
small shops and tenements of the cheaper class. There were but few pedestrians in sight; but,
as he neared the tenement that made the corner of the lane ahead, Jimmie Dale's pace became
still more leisurely. A man and a woman were strolling up the street toward him. They passed.
Jimmie Dale, at the corner of the lane now, glanced behind him. The two were self-absorbed.
And then, like a shadow merging with the darkness of the lane, Jimmie Dale had disappeared.

In an instant, he had gained the loose board in the high fence; and in another, pressing close
to the rear wall of the tenement, he had reached the little French window that gave on the
dingy courtyard. There was an almost inaudible sound, a faint metallic snip, as, kneeling,
his fingers loosened the hidden catch beneath the sill--and the window on well-oiled hinges
swung silently inward, and closed as silently again behind Jimmie Dale as he entered.

The top-light, high up near the ceiling, threw a misty ray of moonlight along the greasy, threadbare
carpet, and threw into relief a folded piece of dark-coloured paper at Jimmie Dale's feet.
He stooped and picked it up--and then moving close to the window again, his fingers, in the
darkness, felt over the dilapidated roller shade to assure himself that the rents were securely
pinned together against the possibility of prying eyes. He stepped quickly then across the
room, tested the door lock; and then the single gas-jet, air-choked, hissing spitefully, illuminated
the room with a wavering meagre yellow flame.

Under the light, Jimmie Dale unfolded the paper, his face hardening suddenly. Beer Creutz invites him to a game Rabouge, Patron Julius he sings his best Songs before, and
Örneclou talk to him about beautiful women, these celestial beings, the Sweeten life. He is
very well, the Horned, while he was with Royal Attitude towards the old coachman Bock rejects
and lifts the cup filled to the grinning mouth.

Gosta Berling, of course, holds a speech for him.

"Your worship," he says, "we have long expected to Ekeby here, for you have hardly Access to
another paradise. Here one lives, to sow or without spin, as your worship probably already know.
Here a roast pigeons fly into the mouth, where strong flows Beer
and sweet spirits in all rivers and streams.

To be here is good, you will notice this, your Grace!

"We pensioners have really been longing for you, because we are not yet quite complete been.
Because we are a little more than what we pretend to be: we are the old gasket Number of twelve,
which runs through all times. Twelve we were when we view the world reigned as the top of
the wolkenumkränzten summit of Olympus, twelve, as we like birds lived in Yggdrasil's green
crown. We were sitting not to twelve of King Arthur's Round Table, and not twelve comrades were in Charlemagne's
army? One of us has been Thor, a other Jupiter, which we have every child can still see. You can
switch the gods shine recognize among the rags, the lion's mane in
the donkey skin.

The time has battered us, here but we will forge on Mount Olympus, the cavalier wings to Valhalla!

"But,
your honor, we have not been complete. We know that in the crowd of Twelfth in the seal had to
be always Loke, a Prometheus, a Ganelon.

We have missing.

"Your Highness! I welcome you! "

"Look, look!" Said the evil. "Beautiful words, beautiful words. And I, who have no time the
answer! Business, my friends, shopping! I must away at once, or I
would be you to any role at the service.

I thank you for your warm welcome, comrade. Goodbye! "

Since asking the Cavaliers, while it draws him in such a hurry, and he replied that the Lady
Ekeby on the major's own waiting for him to renew their contract.

Big surprise take the Cavaliers. A strong and capable woman she is, the major's wife on Ekeby.
She raises a ton of rye on their broad shoulders. It takes the ore from the mines up to Ekeby.
She sleeps like a carter on the threshing floor, a bag as Pillow under the head. In winter,
they can oversee a coal pile, in the summer a wooden raft down the Löfsee charge. A strong
willed woman she is.

She swears like a guy and ruled their seven possessions and goods of their neighbors, ruled
their own Parish and neighboring parishes, and indeed the whole beautiful
Wermland.

The homeless Cavaliers but she was a mother, and so they have closed
their ears, if the rumor penetrated to them that they stand in league
with the devil.

So they ask him with great wonder, which has taken her contract with him.

And he, the black man replied to them that he had given the major's
wife her seven possessions has, for the promise that they will send
him every year, a soul.

O, what a horror constricted when the hearts of the cavaliers together!

They knew it, yes, but they have not yet understood.

On Ekeby dies each year Man, one dies of the guests of the grand gentleman, one of those who
rejoice, the careless, the eternal boy dies. Butterflies need to know how to die, as long as
the sun shines.

But only now understood the importance of the right thing.

Woe to the woman! Therefore, so it has given them many a good meal, so can they drink your beer strong,
their sweet spirits, so they drink from the room and the tables Ekeby on to the prince of darkness,
a plunge down each year - one in each volatile Year!

Woe to the woman, woe to the witch! Strong, beautiful men had come
to this Ekeby to to pass away.

And they fell into ruin, and their brains were to sponges, their lungs to dry ashes, her mind
was clouded when she fell on the death bed, to no hope to connect this long journey without
a soul. Woe to the woman!

Thus, all are dead, the, the better Men than they, and they too shall die.

Long but the Cavaliers are not a terror since paralyzed.

Thou Prince of Doom, "they shout. "With the witch you shall never again written with your blood
Contracts include, should they die.

Christian Bergh, a strong captain, has the heaviest Hammer forging thrown over the shoulder of
the head is buried in this monster be. You will sacrifice to you no soul. And you yourself, you
horned up we put on the anvil, and then we let go of the rod iron hammer. During fall, the hammer
blows, we hold you tight with the pliers, and we want to teach you
to go out hunting for souls gentleman!

"

He is cowardly, the black gentleman, this is an old story, and the prospect, under the big hammer
to come, tells him not to.

He recalls Christian Bergh and begins with the pensioners to negotiate.

"Take the seven iron works in the coming year, they take themselves,
gentlemen, and leave me the major's wife!

"

"Do you think that we think as low as?" Cries Patron Julius. »Ekeby and all seven Possessions
we do with the major's wife but you must accept yourself.

"

"What says Gösta? What does Gösta? Asks the gentle mountain lions. Gosta Berling is talking about.
In such an important matter we need to hear his view. "

"The whole thing is nonsense," said Gosta Berling. "Gentlemen, you do not let him lead! What We are
against the major's wife?

With our souls, come what may, as it wants, but with my free Will
we be ungrateful not to weighting, we act not as villains and traitors.

I ate the bread of the major's wife of many years, now order them to let them down. "

Yes, driving you to hell, Gosta, if you feel like it! We want to rule Ekeby love itself. "

"But be ye very great, or do you have drunk all your sense and reason?
Believe her that this is the truth?

Do you think that this is the devil? Can you not remember, then, that the whole thing is a damned
lie? "

"Look, look, look," says the black gentleman. "He does not realize yet that he on the way is to go
to hell, and yet he is already seven years have been on Ekeby!

He does not notice how far he has come. "

"Oh, nonsense, old man! I've been the one to help you so, then crawl
into the oven!

"

"As if that made a difference. As if I did so not just as well could be a devil like any other.
Yes, yes, Gosta Berling! I got you safe.

You've been pretty nice develops during treatment of the major's wife. "

"You saved me," says Gösta. "What I would have been without them?"

"Look, look! As if they do not own their purpose would have been there
when they up to Ekeby held back.

You can find many lured into the trap, you have large gifts. Once you were seeking up get rid
of her, you let her give you of a house, and you were working, did you want eat your own bread.
Every day she walked past the house, and she had beautiful girls in their wake. One day Marianne
Sinclaire was with her, because you threw a spade and a leather apron
away, Gosta Berling, and was re-cavalier.

"

"The road led past my house, you fool."

"Of course, led the way over there. Later, you came to Borg, Henrik Dohna've been a tutor and
almost the son of the Countess Marta become. Who was responsible for the fact that the young
Countess Ebba Dohna learned that you were just a retired priest,
so that she may gave a basket?

This demonstrates the major's wife was to blame, Gosta Berling! She wanted to have you back
again. "

"What!" Replied Gosta. Ebba Dohna died soon after. I would not get it.

"

Since the black gentleman came up to him and hissed in his face: "Died - yes of course she died.
Murder she has for your sake - that they did, but no one has told you. "

"You're not such a bad devil," says Gösta.

"The major's wife was concerned about the whole thing, I tell you!

She wanted you again for your cavalier wing have! "

Gösta laughed out loud. "You're not such a bad devil," he cried wildly. "Why should we not conclude
a contract with you?

You can contact us if you want to give the seven iron works. "

"Well, your happiness that you no longer stand in the way."

The Cavaliers breathed a sigh of relief. So far it had come with them that they no longer want
to do without Gosta. If he did not mention this, it would not be
the whole pact come about.

And yet it was not easy for poor pensioners, the rule to get through seven iron works!

"Give now eight," said Gosta, "that we accept the seven possessions to our souls save, but not
to be about rich landowners, money counting and iron predominate, no dry parchments, do not
use a constricted budget, we will do, but pensioners do we will be and remain. "

"Golden grains of wisdom," murmured the black gentleman.

"If you want to give us so the seven possessions in one year, we accept
them, But you remember one thing: if we do during the time something
that is not excessively cavalier when we do anything that is useful
or wise or villainous, so can you tell us all twelve To get when the
year is up, and give the iron works, who you want.

"

The Evil rubbed his hands with delight.

"In contrast, however, if we always behave like true gentlemen," continued
Gosta, "then allowed to you never close a contract in relation to
Ekeby and get this year is no Wage, neither we nor the major's wife.

"

"These are tough conditions," said the evil. "Oh, dear Gosta, after all, could you tell me
a soul, treat one little soul. I could not get the major's wife? Why already you only the major's
wife? "

"I do not trade" with the like goods, roars Gosta. "Do you want but a soul have, so you get the
old Sintram to Fors, is ripe for hell, but I have a stand! "

"Look, look, look! This can be "heard," says the old gentleman, without blinking. "The Cavaliers
or Sintram - that goes against one another. This is a rich year. "

And then the contract with blood from Göstas written little finger on the black Paper of evil
and with his quill.

When this is done, however, cheer the Cavaliers. Now the glory of the world them a whole year
are - and later, you'll find a way out.

They move the chairs aside, join hands and form a circle around the
punch boiler middle of the black floor and swing around in a wild
dance.

In the middle of the Circle dance of evil with high jumps, and finally
it can be as long as he is, in addition to the boiler tends to drop
it to him and drink.

Since throwing Beer Creutz down beside him and Gosta Berling, and then store them all in a circle around
the cauldron, which is tilted from one mouth to another. Finally gets it a push, so that he overturned
and all the hot, sticky drink over the in-stock pours.

When they rise up cursing the evil is gone, but his golden promises
immediately suspended radiant crowns of the apexes of the Cavaliers.

The Weihnachtsfestmahl

On Christmas Day, is the major's Samzelius a great feast on Ekeby.

There she sits as a hostess at her table that will be covered for
fifty guests.

She sits there in Splendor and glory of the short coat, the striped dress made of both walls, the
clay pipe have disappeared.

Silk it umrauscht, gold adorns her arms, her white neck beads cool.

But where are the gentlemen, where are the ones on the black floor of the forge from the bright
copper kettles on the welfare of the new owners of Ekeby drank?

In a corner by the stove, the Cavaliers are sitting at a table for
himself and today is no room for them at the big table.

To get them the food late and scanty the wine to them not fly the
eyes of the lovely ladies over, nobody listens there Göstas jokes.

The pensioners same but tamed colt, matt predators. Only an hour of sleep had the night for them,
then they took the torch and starlight to early mass. They saw Christmas
candles, they heard the Christmas carols, their faces were like gentle
children.

They forgot the Christmas night in the forge, how to forget a bad dream.

Large and powerful is the major's wife on Ekeby.

Who dares to raise his arm to strike her, who dares to open his mouth to testify against them?
Certainly not the poor cavaliers to eat their bread for years and
have slept under its roof.

It sets out where she likes, she can shut the door on them when they want and they can not even
beyond their power.

God are with them! Far from Ekeby can not live.

At the large table, you can enjoy life, where radiation Marianne Sinclair's
beautiful eyes, there sounds the cheerful laughter of the merry countess
Dohna.

For the pensioners but it is still. Would not it be right and proper that they, the order of Major's
sake will be thrown headlong into the abyss, were sitting at the same table as their other Guests?
What a shameful this device with the table below in the corner by
the stove?

As if the Cavaliers are not worthy to participate in the company of dignitaries!

The major's wife brags about how she's sitting between the Count and
the provost on credit to Bro.

The pensioners can hang their heads as children who are placed in the corner. And Duringthe
captured the thoughts of the night, waking up with them.

DC shy guests come lively ideas, the funny tall tales to the table in the corner. There hold the
anger of the night, the vow of the night her entry into the brain. Patron Julius probably makes
a strong captain, Christian Bergh-looking, that the roast grouse, which are now being passed around
at the big table, not enough for all guests, but this Incident does not cause merry laugh.

"They
may not be enough," he says. "I know how many were there.

But why is it not at a loss, Captain Christian, one has for us here at the little table crows
fried. "

But Colonel Beer Creutz 'lips curl only a faint smile in the desert
Mustache, and Gösta sees the whole day through, as he was going around
with the idea kill anyone.

"Is not any food good enough for the Cavaliers," he asks.

In fact, given at last a towering bowl of magnificent grouse at the small table.

But Captain Christian is angry. Has he not all the hatred of his life dedicated to the crows,
this heinous, screaming creatures.

So bitter was his hatred that he was in the fall of women's garments
docked and the laughing stock for all made up just to get within range
at them, if they ate the corn in the fields.

He surprised her in the spring when love dance on the bare fields
and killed them.

He searched in the summer on their nests, and threw the screaming, callow young halbausgebrüteten
out or destroyed the eggs.

Now he puts the bowl of the grouse towards you.

"You think about that I do not know," he shouted to the servant. "Do you think that I caw have to
hear to know it? To hell with you, Christian Bergh offer crows! Hell, I say! "

He takes a grouse after the other and throws it against the wall. Sauce and fat splash around.
The crushed birds bounce off the wall and fly across the floor out. And cheered the whole cavalier
wing.

Since penetrates the angry voice of the major's wife to the ear of the Cavaliers: "Throw him
out the door!" she cried to the servants.

But do not dare them. But he is Christian Bergh, the strong main man!

"Throw him out the door!"

He hears the call.

And scary scary in his rage, he now turns to the major's wife, as a bear of a fallen enemy against
the new attackers used. It occurs at the horseshoe-shaped set table. The floor shakes under
the footsteps of giants. He is against stand, the table between himself and her.

"Throw him out the door," the major's wife calls again.

But he is mad, his furrowed brow, his rough fist are terrible to .

Look He is tall like a giant, strong as a giant. Guests and servants
tremble and dare not to lay hands on him.

Who should dare well, now that his mind of anger has stolen?

It is exactly opposite to the major's wife and threatens her. "I threw the crows against the
Wall. Had I not a right to do so? "

"Out with you, Captain!"

"You wench! Christian Bergh to offer crows! I acted against you, as you of God's and law to merit,
I would take you along with your seven devils ... "

"By all the devils, Christian Bergh under stand, do not swear - only
I can only curse.

"

"Do you think that I am afraid of you, you witch?

Do you think I do not know where you your seven possessions searched? "

"Silence, Captain!"

"When Altringer died, he gave it to your husband, because you had been his sweetheart."

"Shut up, I tell you!"

"Because you've been such a faithful wife, Margaret Samzelius. And the Major took the seven
Goods calmly, leaving you to manage and pretended he knew nothing. And the devil has instigated
the whole story. But now it will come to an end with you! "

The major's wife sits down, she is pale, she trembled all over. Then
they confirmed his Words with a strangely quiet voice, "Yes, now it's
over with me, and that is your doing, Christian Bergh, "

Trembles
at the sound of strong captain, his features distorted, tears to the
fear him in the eye.

"I'm drunk," he exclaims. "I do not know what
I say I have not said anything. Dog and Slave, slave and dog, and
nothing I've been in these forty years for them. She is Margaret Celsing
that I have served all my life. I say no evil from it. Should I say
something about the beautiful Margaret Celsing? I am the dog that
their Door guarded, the slave who bear its burdens. You can beat me,
push me under foot, yes but you see that I keep silent and suffer.
I loved her for forty years. As I should probably say something bad
about it! "

And a strange sight it is, as he throws her feet and
asks for forgiveness and as she sits at the other end of the table,
he goes on his knees around the table, until he reached her, as he
bends down, kisses the hem of her dress and wet the Floor with his
tears.

But not far from the major's wife sits a small, portly man,
he has curly hair, small, squinting eyes and a protruding lower jaw.
He is like a bear. A few words Man he is, he does prefer his own way
and does not care about the world and their activities. This is Major
Samzelius.

He rises when he hears Captain Christian's last words,
and the major's wife gets up, and all the fifty guests do the same.
The women are crying out of fear of what there is. The men stand there
like water, and at the feet of the major's wife is Captain Christian
and kisses the hem of her dress, while his tears networks: the floor.

The
wide, hairy hand of the Major coagulates slowly, he raises his arm.

But
she speaks first. It is a dull sound in her voice, it is usually a
stranger.

"You stole me," she exclaims. "You came and took me like
a robber. Forced home I was with blows and blows, hunger and harsh
words, be your wife. I against you acted as you deserve. "

The broad
fist clenched in the majors has. The major's wife runs a step back.
Then she continued: "A live eel writhing under the knife, forced into
marriage Wife bought herself a lover. Do you want me for what, twenty
years ago happened? Why do not you hit me back then? Do not you remember
that he lived on Ekeby and we set Sjö? Have you forgotten how he helped
us out of our poverty? We drove in his Car, we drank his wine. We
have you hiding something? were not his servant our servants? Not
your gold filled his pockets? Took you are not the seven possessions
at? because you had to strike decisively, Berndt; that time did you
remain silent, and all accepted Samzelius would have, as three hit
you! Should "

The man turns away from her and looked at everyone
present. He reads on their faces, that they give it right that they
all believed that he had money and property for his silence taken.

"I
did not know," he says and stomps on the floor.

"Lucky that you know
it now," she interrupted him sharply. "I was afraid you would die
without having experienced it. Lucky that you now know, as I can frank
with you that you have been my Lord and my prison guards. Know then,
I've heard him yet, you were stolen from me. All who have gossipy
me It should know! "

It is the old love, who rejoices in her voice,
which radiates from her eyes. She sees her Man with a raised, clenched
fist in front of him. Horror and contempt she reads on the fifty faces
before him. She feels that this is the last hour of their power. But
they can not help but be glad that they open from the most beautiful
memories of your life allowed to talk.

"He was a man, a wonderful
man! Who were you that you were allowed to put up between us? I never
saw his equal. He gave me good fortune, he gave me belongings. Blessed
be his memory! "

Since lowering the raised arm of the Major, without
strike - now he knows how to punish them.

"Get out," he yells, "Get
out of my house!"

They did not move.

The Cavaliers, however, with
pale faces are there and stare at each other. Now was indeed all in
fulfillment of what had prophesied the Black. Now they saw the result
that the contract of the major's wife was not again. If this is true,
it is probably also true that it has more than twenty years Cavaliers
sent down to hell, that they also be this trip have been determined.
Oh, this witch!

"Out with you," repeated the Major. »Erbettle your
bread on the highway. You shall do not enjoy more of his money, you
shall not dwell on his property. Now is it with the major's wife on
Ekeby. On the day when you put your foot in my house, propose I tot
up! "

"You drive me away from my home?"

"You have no home! Ekeby
mine! "

Since a spirit of fear comes over the major's wife. She draws
back to the door, and He follows on the heels.

"You, who have you
been the misfortune of my life," she complains, "You shall now have
power, harming me this? "

"Out, out with you!"

She leans against
the doorpost, folds his hands and holds it before his face. She thinks
to her mother, muttering to himself: "Would you be denied, I denied
've been. May the road your home, your bed of the ditch, the coal
pile your fireplace be. So it should be done so yet, so it should
be done that! "

The good old pastor of Bro and the county judge from
Munkerud were now up to the Major and tried to calm him down. They
told him that he does best in, if they all these old stories can be
suspended if he left all the old, forgotten and forgiven. But he shakes
his soft hands on his shoulders. It is dangerous to him close, as
earlier Christian Bergh.

"That's not an old story," he exclaims.
"I've known to this day nothing.

Again Jimmie Dale's eyes made a circuit of the place, failed to identify the person of one
Kid Greer, and, giving up the attempt, rested speculatively instead on Klanner's back. Yes,
he could quite fully understand why the Tocsin could not have warned Klanner to beware, for
instance, of Kid Greer. Such a warning, apart from keeping Hunchback Joe from planting the
evidence, would even have defeated its own end--for, even to save Klanner, the game had to
be played out as Hunchback Joe had planned it. They meant to "get" Klanner, and if not here
at Baldy Jack's, then somewhere else. She knew what they meant to do here--she might not know
when, or how, or where they would make the attempt if they had been forced to change their plans.

Jimmie Dale tossed a coin on the table, as the waiter set down a glass of beer in front of
him--and then, over the top of the glass, Jimmie Dale resumed his scrutiny of the hall. Directly
behind him was a back entrance that opened on a lane at the rear of the building; and between
himself and the entrance was only one table, which was unoccupied. Jimmie Dale, playing with
his match box, as he lighted another cigarette, dropped the box, stooped to pick it up--and
drew his chair unostentatiously nearer to Klanner.

It was ten o'clock now, time that--yes, the game was on--now! A man, that he recognised as
one of the Mole's gunmen, had dropped into a seat a couple of tables away from Klanner, where
there was a clear space between the two men. There was a sudden jostling among the dancers
on the floor--then an oath, rising high above the riot of talk and laughter--a swirl of figures--a
medley of shouts and women's screams, drowning out the squeak of the musicians' violins and
the thump of the tinny piano.

Jimmie Dale's jaws locked hard together. There was a struggling, Furious mob at the lower end
of the hall--but his eyes now never left the gunman two tables away. Klanner, in dazed amazement,
had half risen from his seat, as though uncertain what to do. The screams, shouts, oaths and
yells grew louder--came the roar of a revolver shot--another--pandemonium was reigning now.
It seemed an hour, a great period of time since the first shout had rung through the hall--it
had been but a matter of seconds. Jimmie Dale was crouched a little forward in his chair now,
tense, motionless. What was holding Hoppy Meggs! This was Hoppy Meggs' cue, wasn't it?--those
shots there, aimed at the floor, had only been to create the panic--there was to be another
shot that--

The hall was in sudden darkness. With a spring, quick on the instant, Jimmie Dale was upon
Klanner's back, hurling the man to the floor. The tongue-flame of a revolver split the black
over his head; there was the deafening roar of a revolver shot almost in his ears that blotted
out for an instant all other sounds--and then came the shouts and cries again in an access
of terror and now the rush of feet--a blind stampede in the darkness for the exits. Another
shot from the gunman, as though to make his work doubly sure, followed the first--but now some
of the fear-stricken crowd had come between them, plunging, falling, tripping over tables and
chairs, seeking the rear exit.

"Quick!" Jimmie Dale breathed in Klanner's ear. He was half lifting, half dragging the man
along. "Quick--get your feet, man!"

There was a surging mob around them now, pushing, fighting madly to reach the door; and, as
Klanner regained his feet, they were both swept forward, and, lunging through the door, were
precipitated out into the lane. And here, wary of a riot call that had probably already been
rung in by the patrolman on the beat, the crowd was taking to its heels and dispersing in both
directions along the lane.

"Quick!" said Jimmie Dale again--and, with his hand on Klanner's arm, broke into a run.

Those running in the same direction turned off from the lane at the first cross street; but
Jimmie Dale held to the lane, and it was three blocks away from Baldy Jack's before he stopped.

Klanner was panting from his exertions.

"My God--what's it mean!" he gasped. "I--I thought I saw a revolver in that man's hand, the
fellow next to me, just as the lights went out."

"You probably did," said Jimmie Dale grimly.

"Well----what's it mean?" repeated Klanner heavily.

It was a moment before Jimmie Dale answered. For the man's own sake, the less that Klanner
knew the better, probably--and yet the man must be kept out of harm's way for the rest of the
night. Having failed at Baldy Jack's, it was certain, since Clarke's whole plan hinged on Klanner's
death, that they would try again. After to-night--if all went well--it did not matter, for
Klanner then would be no longer a factor to Clarke or Hunchback Joe!

"It means," said Jimmie Dale gravely, "that there's been some sort of a gangster's fight pulled
off, and that probably there's been dirty work--murder--in there. The police will go the limit
to round up everybody they can find who was in Baldy Jack's. There's only one thing to do--keep
your mouth shut and lie low to-night. You can't take any chances of getting into this--you
look like a man who's got a decent job he doesn't want to lose, and you don't look like a man
who is entitled to be saddled with a reputation for hanging around that sort of place. Do you
live near here?"

"Yes," said Klanner, a little dully.

"Well then," said Jimmie Dale quietly, "get out of this neighbourhood for the night. Don't
risk recognition while the chase is hot. Go uptown somewhere to any hotel you like, and stay
there in your room. You can go to work just as well from there in the morning. Got any money?"

"Yes," said Klanner slowly. "Yes, I got some money--and I guess you're right. Say, who are
you anyway? You seem to have a line on this sort of thing, and I guess I owe you a whole skin.
If you hadn't--"

"I'm a man in a hurry," said Jimmie Dale whimsically--and then the grim note crept back into
his voice. "I am giving you a straight tip. Take it--and take that street car that's coming
along there." He held out his hand.

"Sure!" said Klanner. "And I--"

"Good-night," said Jimmie Dale, and started abruptly across the street, entering the lane on
the other side again--but here, in the shadows, he paused for a moment, watching until Klanner
boarded the uptown car.

CHAPTER XXIV

AT FIVE MINUTES OF TWELVE

Twenty minutes later, well along the East River front, in an unsavoury and deserted neighbourhood,
Jimmie Dale was crouched before the door of a small building that seemed built half on the
shore edge, and half on an old and run-down pier that extended out into the water. The building
itself was little more than a storage shed, and originally had probably laid claims to nothing
more pretentious--to-day it served as warehouse and office for Hunchback Joe's "business,"
and, above, for Hunchback Joe's living quarters. Jimmie Dale glanced around him sharply--not
for the first time. There were no other buildings in his immediate vicinity, and such as could
be seen loomed up only as black, shadowy, distant shapes--warehouses and small factories, for
the most part, and empty and deserted now at night. It was intensely black--only a twinkling
light here and there from a passing craft on the river, and the glow from thousands of street
lamps that, like some strange aerial illumination, hovered over the opposite shore. The shed
itself, windowless at least in front, was as silent, as deserted, and as black as all around it.

Jimmie Dale's hand stole into his pocket, produced a black silk mask, adjusted the mask over
his face--and then the deft, slim fingers were at work with a little steel instrument on the
door lock. A moment more, and the door swung silently inward, slowly, inch by inch. He listened
intently. There was no sound. He stepped inside, and silently closed and locked the door behind
If Hunchback Joe had not returned yet, it was necessary that Hunchback Joe should find the
door as he had left it--locked! Again Jimmie Dale listened--and then the ray of his flashlight
circled the place. A miscellany of ship's junk was piled without any attempt at order all over
the place; a board partition with two small windows, one on each side of the door, ran from
side to side of the shed about a third of the way up its length; and in the sides of the shed
itself were also two small, narrow windows--too small and too narrow, Jimmie Dale noted grimly,
for the passage of a man's body.

He moved forward cautiously, though he was almost certain that he was ahead of Hunchback Joe.
He, Jimmie Dale, had come without an instant's loss of time from Baldy Jack's, and it was more
than an even chance that Hunchback Joe would have remained somewhere in the neighbourhood until
the affair was over. It would take some little time--not until after the police had restored
order--to discover that the attempt upon Klanner had been abortive, that Klanner's body was
not lying there dead on the floor. But after that--Jimmie Dale opened the door of the partition
stealthily, slipped through, and, as his flashlight swept around again, nodded his head sharply--yes,
he had thought so!--there was a means of communication here--a telephone. Well then, after
that, Hunchback Joe would set every crook and tool over whom he had any control at work to
find Klanner. But that meant different men at work in many different directions, and there
must therefore be some central spot where Hunchback Joe could be instantly reached and reports
made to him should Klanner be found--and what better place, what more likely place than here
in the security of his own lair! Yes, Hunchback Joe, since he, Jimmie Dale, was now satisfied
that the other had not yet returned, would be back here, and, in all probability, long before
midnight. Midnight! Why had the Tocsin set midnight, waited for midnight as the hour for the
Secret Service raid? Did she have a hidden purpose in that? Was it possible she knew that some
one beside Hunchback Joe would also be here at that hour--that Clarke might be here, too! Well,
why not! There might well be need for a conference between Clarke and his unholy chief of staff!
There might--Jimmie Dale frowned savagely. His mind was running riot! He had not come here
to speculate on possibilities; for, whatever might happen, there was definite and instant work
to do.

The white ray of the flashlight played steadily now around him. The place evidently served
as the office; it was partitioned off again in exactly the same manner from the rear of the
shed, making an oblong enclosure the width of the shed one way, and a good fifteen feet the
other. It was electric-lighted, and contained a battered table in lieu of desk, upon which
stood the telephone; there were several chairs, and a safe, whose scratched, marred, and apparently
ramshackle exterior did not disguise from Jimmie Dale the fact that it was of the finest and
most modern make.

A rough, wooden stairway led above. Jimmie Dale mounted this, found that it gave on a crudely
furnished, attic-like bedroom, and then descending again, he opened the rear door of the partition,
and flashed his light around the back of the shed. There were a few packing cases here--that
was all. The shed was evidently built out to the extreme end of the pier, judging from its
depth; and there had been side doors, but these were boarded up and bore evidence of having
been long out of use--and there were no windows.

Jimmie Dale returned now to the front of the shed.

"Under the sail-cloth in left corner," she had written. Yes, here it was! He stooped down,
a twisted smile on his lips, and, taking from his pocket the packet of papers and the blackjack,
tucked them under several folds of the cloth. "Unto Caesar!" she had said. Well, he had rendered
back to "Caesar" the things that were "Caesar's." He straightened up. The Secret Service men
would know where to look--she would have seen to that! "Unto Caesar!" The smile died away,
and an angry red tinged Jimmie Dale's cheeks--he was picturing again that scene in Klanner's
room, the bestial deviltry of that deformed and hideous creature who, to cover up his own guilt,
was railroading an innocent man to death. "Unto Caesar!"--yes, there was grim justice here--but
that was not enough! Justice might and would have its turn, but before then there was another
sort of justice, too!

He went back into the office, and sat down in a chair beside the table where he could command
the door. He laid his flashlight, the ray on, upon the table, took from his pocket the metal
insignia case, lifted out a seal, dropped it by means of the tweezers on his handkerchief,
folded the handkerchief carefully, and replaced the insignia case and handkerchief in his pocket;
then, switching off the flashlight, he restored that, too, to his pocket. Old ladies pray there with her thin
hair, now that you have removed the fine bonnets, and the young have their clothes among the husks
pulled up into the air, so the stiff toppings while driving not to be wrinkled.

Without, however, to return to the warning cries, jumps Gosta Berling to the Countess and take
them. He lifts his arms and rushes to her from the room, the hallway and from then on the stairs.

The
cries of the women did not inhibit surprised.

As they rush behind him to see it was that he, the Countess is still holding in her arms, throws
in a carriage. You hear the coachman pop with the whip and watch the horse hunt from there. You
know the Kutscher - it's beer Creutz. You know the horse - it's Don Juan. And in the deep
concern the fate of the Countess they call the masters.

And they do not spend time with many questions, but to overthrow the sleigh. Count at the top, they
are hunting down the woman robber.

But he is in the slide and holds the young countess. All sorrow is forgotten, carried away from
the heady joy of the adventure, he sings of his voice and a song of love of roses. He holds them
pressed in itself, but makes no attempt to escape him.

Her face white and stone rests on his chest.

Oh, what should a man do if he is a pale, helpless face so directly
in his Nearby is when he the blond hair, which shades the otherwise
gleaming white forehead, brushed back see if the lids have closed
hard over the gray, mischievous eyes?

Kissing, of course, the pale lips, closed eyes, the white forehead kiss!

But as the young woman wakes up. She throws herself on the page, it is flexible like a spring.
And he must fight with all his force against them, so they are not out of the sleigh crashes
before it manages to give it but shivering in one corner of the carriage force.

"Behold," says Gösta calm of Beer Creutz, "the Countess is the third, the Don Juan and I carry off this winter.
But the others were hanging on my neck and kissed me, and kissed her I neither want nor will
dance with me. Can you make sense of these women be Creutz Beer?

"

But when Gösta from the court started when the women screamed and
the men swore, as the sleigh bells rang and the whips cracked, and
everywhere there was noise and confusion, as was the Men who guarded
the major's wife, felt very strange.

"What is going on," she thought. "Why do people cry?"

Suddenly the
door flung open and a voice calls to them: "She's gone. Now go it
with her. "

And they run like crazy people like this, without looking
whether the major's wife, or else was someone who disappeared.

Luck
was favorable to them, they found some extra space in a carriage.

"I want to give this back to you," said Jimmie Dale quietly--and flung the roll of bills that
he had taken from Klanner's trunk down upon the table.

Hunchback Joe's eyes ceased to blink.

"Why, thanks!" grinned Hunchback Joe. "You're a queer sort of a night marauder, you are! Sure
this is for me, and that you aren't making a mistake?"

"Quite sure," said Jimmie Dale, still quietly. "It's yours. It's the money you planted in Klanner's
trunk a couple of hours ago."

"I never heard of Klanner," said Hunchback Joe.

"It's simply the evidence that that isn't all I found in the trunk," said Jimmie Dale. "There
was a packet of papers, and the blood-stained blackjack with which Jathan Lane was murdered
in the bank this afternoon."

"My God, the man's mad!" muttered Hunchback Joe under his breath. In
the cage they put a young panther. It was even the dullest sense tactile Recreation, to see throw
around in the desert so long cage this wild animal is. He missed nothing. The food that he
liked it, brought him without much reflection, the guardian, not the freedom he once seemed to
miss, this chic, with everything necessary to almost the breaking point appointed body, the freedom
seemed to carry around with them, somewhere in the teeth seemed to put them, and the joy of life
came with such a strong passion from his throat that for the spectators was not easy to carry
it. But they overcame themselves, crowded round the cage and wanted to continue not move at all.


"What's your price?" he asked thickly. "I suppose you've got those--those other things, or
at least you know where they are."

"Yes," said Jimmie Dale grimly, "I know where they are."

"Well"--Hunchback Joe hesitated, fumbling for his words--"we're both tarred with the same brush,
only you're worse than I am. I've got to pay your price, of course. Make it reasonable. I haven't
got all the money in the world. The second time he was tutor to the young Borg with earl Heinrich
Dohna. There he fell in love with Ebba Dohna, Count sister when she died, however, just as he meant
to win it, he gave any thought that anything other than a gentleman Ekeby to be on. It seemed
as if a remote parish priest all the way to Restore his honor closed.

Gosta Berling saga

The landscape

Now I have to those who know the long lake, the rich plains and blue
mountains, already, ask that they roll over a few pages.

You can do quiet, the book is still long enough.

Everyone will understand that I am forced to describe these three scenarios which, they have
not seen yet, because they were the stage on the Gosta Berling and the pensioners were living their
happy life.

But for those who have seen, it is to understand very easily that it exceeds the powers of a
man who only the spring run can.

Most of all I would be content to tell of the lake that he called the Löfsee, that it is long
and narrow that he deserted from the great forests of northern Wermland up to down in the lowlands of
the south Wenersees extends, from the level that they on both sides
of the lake then runs from the mountains and that they, with their
superior chains enclose the entire valley.

But that's not enough for me if I the lake of my childhood dreams and will describe the life of
my childhood heroes.

The sources of the lake are high in the north, and there is a wonderful country for a lake. Forest
and mountains will never be ready to collect water for him, elf and streams bring down the throughout
the year in him down. It has fine white sand, on which he can stretch out, Headlands and islands, which
he can reflect, there is free room for the Wassermann and the mermaid, and he grows big and
beautiful. Up there in the north, he is cheerful and friendly. Her it should only look at one
summer morning when he lies wide awake and under the veil of mist lightning, how funny he is.
He hides them for a while, then he slips quietly, very quietly out
of his bright shell out, so bewitching, that he was hardly recognize
can. But then, with a jerk, he throws off the whole ceiling and lies
there, naked and free and rose and shines in the morning light.

The misshapen, shrunken thing was rocking on its feet. There was no answer.

"There are two minutes left," said Jimmie Dale in a monotone.

The man's eyes, coal black, hunted, the pupils gone, swept the room. His lips were working;
his hands, clenching and unclenching, clawed at the table.

"One!" said Jimmie Dale.

There was a scream of ungovernable fury, the crash of the toppling table, and, reaching out
with both hands for Jimmie Dale's weapon, Hunchback Joe hurled himself forward--but quick as
the other was, Jimmie Dale was quicker, and with his left hand, palm open, pushed full into
the man's face, he flung the other back.

And then there came a cry--a cry in a woman's voice;

"Marre!"

It was the Tocsin's voice from the rear doorway of the office. It was her voice; Jimmie Dale
could never mistake it even in its startled cry--but he did not look. His eyes were on the
man who was standing on the other side of the overturned table, whose beard where he, Jimmie
Dale, had grasped the other's face had been wrenched away, and whose shrunken figure seemed
to tower up now in height, and whose deformity was a padded coat, awry now because of the erect
and upright posture in which the man stood. It was Clarke, the master of disguise, who once
had impersonated Travers, the chauffeur; it was Marre--Wizard Marre.

There was a ghastly smile on the man's face. "He brings the ideas of the youth in him, if he
has collected enough. He gives the pastor a sign, if the people of God of its needs. "

"But if the priest is now the signs are not obeyed, Gosta Berling?"

"He can not resist him," Gosta said with a beaming smile. "The thought of the warm huts, whose construction
he should help the poor, is too tempting. "

The priest looks down on the small building that he made from the
withered branches of Schandhügels has shown.

The longer he talks to Gösta, the more he feels convinced that he
was right added.

He had always had the idea to do good, even if he had collected enough. He clings to it; of
course he had had this idea.

"Why is there no houses he builds," he asked shyly.

"He is ashamed. One could easily believe that he would do for fear of the people what he to do always
intended. "

"He can not bear the thought that one wants to force him, that is the reason."

"But he can help in secret.

This year, it needs much help. He can give someone who hands out
his gifts.

I understand all that, "exclaims Gosta, and his eyes shine. "This year will receive thousands
of the bread, which she curses . Overwhelm "

"So it should be, Gösta!"

A
noise came over these two, who had understood so little to fill the
job, the had chosen them. The desire to serve their youth, God and
man, came over her again. They reveled in the benefits they wanted
to perform. Gösta was the assistant be the pastor.

"Above all, we've
got to make bread, said the minister.

"And we need to create teachers.
We have land surveyors come to the ground and Bottom deal.

"Right ahead, Jimmie!" she breathed. "The planks at the end of the pier swing aside--yes, there--no,
a little to the right--yes!"

The boat shot out into the river--farther out--and the pier and shed merged into the shadows
of the shore line and were lost.

And then Jimmie Dale let the oars swing loose. She was crouched in the bottom of the boat close
beside him. He bent his head until his lips touched her hair, and lower still until his lips
touched hers. And a long time passed. And the boat drifted on. And he drew her closer into
his arms, and held her there. She was safe now, safe for always--and the road of fear lay behind.
And into the night there seemed to come a great quiet, and a great joy, and a great thankfulness,
and a wondrous peace.

And the boat drifted on.

And neither spoke--for they were going home.

THE END

