"Information concerning the period previous to her coming to England...." The words were an
evocation. He saw her again as she had looked at their first meeting, the poor woman of genius
with her long pale face and short-sighted eyes, softened a little by the grace of youth and
inexperience, but so incapable even then of any hold upon the pulses. When she spoke, indeed,
she was wonderful, more wonderful, perhaps, than when later, to Glennard's fancy at least,
the conscious of memorable things uttered seemed to take from even her most intimate speech
the perfect bloom of privacy. It was in those earliest days, if ever, that he had come near
loving her; though even then his sentiment had lived only in the intervals of its expression.
Later, when to be loved by her had been a state to touch any man's imagination, the physical
reluctance had, inexplicably, so overborne the intellectual attraction, that the last years
had been, to both of them, an agony of conflicting impulses. Even now, if, in turning over
old papers, his hand lit on her letters, the touch filled him with inarticulate misery....

"She had so few intimate friends... that letters will be of special value." So few intimate
friends! For years she had had but one; one who in the last years had requited her wonderful
pages, her tragic outpourings of love, humility, and pardon, with the scant phrases by which
a man evades the vulgarest of sentimental importunities. He had been a brute in spite of himself,
and sometimes, now that the remembrance of her face had faded, and only her voice and words
remained with him, he chafed at his own inadequacy, his stupid inability to rise to the height
of her passion. His egoism was not of a kind to mirror its complacency in the adventure. To
have been loved by the most brilliant woman of her day, and to have been incapable of loving
her, seemed to him, in looking back, the most derisive evidence of his limitations; and his
remorseful tenderness for her memory was complicated with a sense of irritation against her
for having given him once for all the measure of his emotional capacity. It was not often,
however, that he thus probed the past. The public, in taking possession of Mrs. Aubyn, had
eased his shoulders of their burden. There was something fatuous in an attitude of sentimental
apology toward a memory already classic: to reproach one's self for not having loved Margaret
Aubyn was a good deal like being disturbed by an inability to admire the Venus of Milo. From
her cold niche of fame she looked down ironically enough on his self-flagellations.... It was
only when he came on something that belonged to her that he felt a sudden renewal of the old
feeling, the strange dual impulse that drew him to her voice but drove him from her hand, so
that even now, at sight of anything she had touched, his heart contracted painfully. It happened
seldom nowadays. Her little presents, one by one, had disappeared from his rooms, and her letters,
kept from some unacknowledged puerile vanity in the possession of such treasures, seldom came
beneath his hand....

"Her letters will be of special value--" Her letters! Why, he must have hundreds of them--enough
to fill a volume. Sometimes it used to seem to him that they came with every post--he used
to avoid looking in his letter-box when he came home to his rooms--but her writing seemed to
spring out at him as he put his key in the door--.

He stood up and strolled into the other room. Hollingsworth, lounging away from the window,
had joined himself to a languidly convivial group of men to whom, in phrases as halting as
though they struggled to define an ultimate idea, he was expounding the cursed nuisance of
living in a hole with such a damned climate that one had to get out of it by February, with
the contingent difficulty of there being no place to take one's yacht to in winter but that
other played-out hole, the Riviera. From the outskirts of this group Glennard wandered to another,
where a voice as different as possible from Hollingsworth's colorless organ dominated another
circle of languid listeners.

"Come and hear Dinslow talk about his patent: admission free," one of the men sang out in a
tone of mock resignation.

Dinslow turned to Glennard the confident pugnacity of his smile. "Give it another six months
and it'll be talking about itself," he declared. "It's pretty nearly articulate now."

"Can it say papa?" someone else inquired.

Dinslow's smile broadened. "You'll be deuced glad to say papa to IT a year from now," he retorted.
"It'll be able to support even you in affluence. Look here, now, just let me explain to you--"

Glennard moved away impatiently. The men at the club--all but those who were "in it"--were
proverbially "tired" of Dinslow's patent, and none more so than Glennard, whose knowledge of
its merits made it loom large in the depressing catalogue of lost opportunities. The relations
between the two men had always been friendly, and Dinslow's urgent offers to "take him in on
the ground floor" had of late intensified Glennard's sense of his own inability to meet good
luck half way. Some of the men who had paused to listen were already in evening clothes, others
on their way home to dress; and Glennard, with an accustomed twinge of humiliation, said to
himself that if he lingered among them it was in the miserable hope that one of the number
might ask him to dine. Miss Trent had told him that she was to go to the opera that evening
with her rich aunt; and if he should have the luck to pick up a dinner-invitation he might
join her there without extra outlay.

He moved about the room, lingering here and there in a tentative affectation of interest; but
though the men greeted him pleasantly no one asked him to dine. Doubtless they were all engaged,
these men who could afford to pay for their dinners, who did not have to hunt for invitations
as a beggar rummages for a crust in an ash-barrel! But no--as Hollingsworth left the lessening
circle about the table an admiring youth called out--"Holly, stop and dine!"

Hollingsworth turned on him the crude countenance that looked like the wrong side of a more
finished face. "Sorry I can't. I'm in for a beastly banquet."

Glennard threw himself into an arm-chair. Why go home in the rain to dress? It was folly to
take a cab to the opera, it was worse folly to go there at all. His perpetual meetings with
Alexa Trent were as unfair to the girl as they were unnerving to himself. Since he couldn't
marry her, it was time to stand aside and give a better man the chance--and his thought admitted
the ironical implication that in the terms of expediency the phrase might stand for Hollingsworth.

II

He dined alone and walked home to his rooms in the rain. As he turned into Fifth Avenue he
caught the wet gleam of carriages on their way to the opera, and he took the first side street,
in a moment of irritation against the petty restrictions that thwarted every impulse. It was
ridiculous to give up the opera, not because one might possibly be bored there, but because
one must pay for the experiment.

In his sitting-room, the tacit connivance of the inanimate had centred the lamp-light on a
photograph of Alexa Trent, placed, in the obligatory silver frame, just where, as memory officiously
reminded him, Margaret Aubyn's picture had long throned in its stead. Miss Trent's features
cruelly justified the usurpation. She had the kind of beauty that comes of a happy accord of
face and spirit. It is not given to many to have the lips and eyes of their rarest mood, and
some women go through life behind a mask expressing only their anxiety about the butcher's
bill or their inability to see a joke. With Miss Trent, face and mind had the same high serious
contour. She looked like a throned Justice by some grave Florentine painter; and it seemed
to Glennard that her most salient attribute, or that at least to which her conduct gave most
consistent expression, was a kind of passionate justice--the intuitive feminine justness that
is so much rarer than a reasoned impartiality. Circumstances had tragically combined to develop
this instinct into a conscious habit. She had seen more than most girls of the shabby side
of life, of the perpetual tendency of want to cramp the noblest attitude. Poverty and misfortune
had overhung her childhood and she had none of the pretty delusions about life that are supposed
to be the crowning grace of girlhood. This very competence, which gave her a touching reasonableness,
made Glennard's situation more difficult than if he had aspired to a princess bred in the purple.
Between them they asked so little--they knew so well how to make that little do--but they understood
also, and she especially did not for a moment let him forget, that without that little the
future they dreamed of was impossible.

The sight of her photograph quickened Glennard's exasperation. He was sick and ashamed of the
part he was playing. He had loved her now for two years, with the tranquil tenderness that
gathers depth and volume as it nears fulfilment; he knew that she would wait for him--but the
certitude was an added pang. There are times when the constancy of the woman one cannot marry
is almost as trying as that of the woman one does not want to.

Glennard turned up his reading-lamp and stirred the fire. He had a long evening before him
and he wanted to crowd out thought with action. He had brought some papers from his office
and he spread them out on his table and squared himself to the task....

It must have been an hour later that he found himself automatically fitting a key into a locked
drawer. He had no more notion than a somnambulist of the mental process that had led up to
this action. He was just dimly aware of having pushed aside the papers and the heavy calf volumes
that a moment before had bounded his horizon, and of laying in their place, without a trace
of conscious volition, the parcel he had taken from the drawer.

The letters were tied in packets of thirty or forty. There were a great many packets. On some
of the envelopes the ink was fading; on others, which bore the English post-mark, it was still
fresh. She had been dead hardly three years, and she had written, at lengthening intervals,
to the last....

He undid one of the earlier packets--little notes written during their first acquaintance at
Hillbridge. Glennard, on leaving college, had begun life in his uncle's law office in the old
university town. It was there that, at the house of her father, Professor Forth, he had first
met the young lady then chiefly distinguished for having, after two years of a conspicuously
unhappy marriage, returned to the protection of the paternal roof.

Mrs. Aubyn was at that time an eager and somewhat tragic young woman, of complex mind and undeveloped
manners, whom her crude experience of matrimony had fitted out with a stock of generalizations
that exploded like bombs in the academic air of Hillbridge. In her choice of a husband she
had been fortunate enough, if the paradox be permitted, to light on one so signally gifted
with the faculty of putting himself in the wrong that her leaving him had the dignity of a
manifesto--made her, as it were, the spokeswoman of outraged wifehood. In this light she was
cherished by that dominant portion of Hillbridge society which was least indulgent to conjugal
differences, and which found a proportionate pleasure in being for once able to feast openly
on a dish liberally seasoned with the outrageous. So much did this endear Mrs. Aubyn to the
university ladies that they were disposed from the first to allow her more latitude of speech
and action than the ill-used wife was generally accorded in Hillbridge, where misfortune was
still regarded as a visitation designed to put people in their proper place and make them feel
the superiority of their neighbors. The young woman so privileged combined with a kind of personal
shyness an intellectual audacity that was like a deflected impulse of coquetry: one felt that
if she had been prettier she would have had emotions instead of ideas. She was in fact even
then what she had always remained: a genius capable of the acutest generalizations, but curiously
undiscerning where her personal susceptibilities were concerned. Her psychology failed her
just where it serves most women and one felt that her brains would never be a guide to her
heart. Of all this, however, Glennard thought little in the first year of their acquaintance.
He was at an age when all the gifts and graces are but so much undiscriminated food to the
ravening egoism of youth. In seeking Mrs. Aubyn's company he was prompted by an intuitive taste
for the best as a pledge of his own superiority. The sympathy of the cleverest woman in Hillbridge
was balm to his craving for distinction: it was public confirmation of his secret sense that
he was cut out for a bigger place. It must not be understood that Glennard was vain. Vanity
contents itself with the coarsest diet; there is no palate so fastidious as that of self-distrust.
To a youth of Glennard's aspirations the encouragement of a clever woman stood for the symbol
of all success. Later, when he had begun to feel his way, to gain a foothold, he would not
need such support; but it served to carry him lightly and easily over what is often a period
of insecurity and discouragement.

It would be unjust, however, to represent his interest in Mrs. Aubyn as a matter of calculation.
It was as instinctive as love, and it missed being love by just such a hair-breadth deflection
from the line of beauty as had determined the curve of Mrs. Aubyn's lips. When they met she
had just published her first novel, and Glennard, who afterward had an ambitious man's impatience
of distinguished women, was young enough to be dazzled by the semi-publicity it gave her. It
was the kind of book that makes elderly ladies lower their voices and call each other "my dear"
when they furtively discuss it; and Glennard exulted in the superior knowledge of the world
that enabled him to take as a matter of course sentiments over which the university shook its
head. Still more delightful was it to hear Mrs. Aubyn waken the echoes of academic drawing-rooms
with audacities surpassing those of her printed page. Her intellectual independence gave a
touch of comradeship to their intimacy, prolonging the illusion of college friendships based
on a joyous interchange of heresies. Mrs. Aubyn and Glennard represented to each other the
augur's wink behind the Hillbridge idol: they walked together in that light of young omniscience
from which fate so curiously excludes one's elders.

Husbands who are notoriously inopportune, may even die inopportunely, and this was the revenge
that Mr. Aubyn, some two years after her return to Hillbridge, took upon his injured wife.
He died precisely at the moment when Glennard was beginning to criticise her. It was not that
she bored him; she did what was infinitely worse--she made him feel his inferiority. The sense
of mental equality had been gratifying to his raw ambition; but as his self-knowledge defined
itself, his understanding of her also increased; and if man is at times indirectly flattered
by the moral superiority of woman, her mental ascendency is extenuated by no such oblique tribute
to his powers. The attitude of looking up is a strain on the muscles; and it was becoming more
and more Glennard's opinion that brains, in a woman, should be merely the obverse of beauty.
To beauty Mrs. Aubyn could lay no claim; and while she had enough prettiness to exasperate
him by her incapacity to make use of it, she seemed invincibly ignorant of any of the little
artifices whereby women contrive to palliate their defects and even to turn them into graces.
Her dress never seemed a part of her; all her clothes had an impersonal air, as though they
had belonged to someone else and been borrowed in an emergency that had somehow become chronic.
She was conscious enough of her deficiencies to try to amend them by rash imitations of the
most approved models; but no woman who does not dress well intuitively will ever do so by the
light of reason, and Mrs. Aubyn's plagiarisms, to borrow a metaphor of her trade, somehow never
seemed to be incorporated with the text.

Genius is of small use to a woman who does not know how to do her hair. The fame that came
to Mrs. Aubyn with her second book left Glennard's imagination untouched, or had at most the
negative effect of removing her still farther from the circle of his contracting sympathies.
We are all the sport of time; and fate had so perversely ordered the chronology of Margaret
Aubyn's romance that when her husband died Glennard felt as though he had lost a friend.

It was not in his nature to be needlessly unkind; and though he was in the impregnable position
of the man who has given a woman no more definable claim on him than that of letting her fancy
that he loves her, he would not for the world have accentuated his advantage by any betrayal
of indifference. During the first year of her widowhood their friendship dragged on with halting
renewals of sentiment, becoming more and more a banquet of empty dishes from which the covers
were never removed; then Glennard went to New York to live and exchanged the faded pleasures
of intercourse for the comparative novelty of correspondence. Her letters, oddly enough, seemed
at first to bring her nearer than her presence. She had adopted, and she successfully maintained,
a note as affectionately impersonal as his own; she wrote ardently of her work, she questioned
him about his, she even bantered him on the inevitable pretty girl who was certain before long
to divert the current of his confidences. To Glennard, who was almost a stranger in New York,
the sight of Mrs. Aubyn's writing was like a voice of reassurance in surroundings as yet insufficiently
aware of him. His vanity found a retrospective enjoyment in the sentiment his heart had rejected,
and this factitious emotion drove him once or twice to Hillbridge, whence, after scenes of
evasive tenderness, he returned dissatisfied with himself and her. As he made room for himself
in New York and peopled the space he had cleared with the sympathies at the disposal of agreeable
and self-confident young men, it seemed to him natural to infer that Mrs. Aubyn had refurnished
in the same manner the void he was not unwilling his departure should have left. But in the
dissolution of sentimental partnerships it is seldom that both associates are able to withdraw
their funds at the same time; and Glennard gradually learned that he stood for the venture
on which Mrs. Aubyn had irretrievably staked her all. It was not the kind of figure he cared
to cut. He had no fancy for leaving havoc in his wake and would have preferred to sow a quick
growth of oblivion in the spaces wasted by his unconsidered inroads; but if he supplied the
seed it was clearly Mrs. Aubyn's business to see to the raising of the crop. Her attitude seemed
indeed to throw his own reasonableness into distincter relief: so that they might have stood
for thrift and improvidence in an allegory of the affections.

It was not that Mrs. Aubyn permitted herself to be a pensioner on his bounty. He knew she had
no wish to keep herself alive on the small change of sentiment; she simply fed on her own funded
passion, and the luxuries it allowed her made him, even then, dimly aware that she had the
secret of an inexhaustible alchemy.

Their relations remained thus negatively tender till she suddenly wrote him of her decision
to go abroad to live. Her father had died, she had no near ties in Hillbridge, and London offered
more scope than New York to her expanding personality. She was already famous and her laurels
were yet unharvested.

For a moment the news roused Glennard to a jealous sense of lost opportunities. He wanted,
at any rate, to reassert his power before she made the final effort of escape. They had not
met for over a year, but of course he could not let her sail without seeing her. She came to
New York the day before her departure, and they spent its last hours together. Glennard had
planned no course of action--he simply meant to let himself drift. They both drifted, for a
long time, down the languid current of reminiscence; she seemed to sit passive, letting him
push his way back through the overgrown channels of the past. At length she reminded him that
they must bring their explorations to an end. He rose to leave, and stood looking at her with
the same uncertainty in his heart. He was tired of her already--he was always tired of her--yet
he was not sure that he wanted her to go.

"I may never see you again," he said, as though confidently appealing to her compassion.

Her look enveloped him. "And I shall see you always--always!"

"Why go then--?" escaped him.

"To be nearer you," she answered; and the words dismissed him like a closing door.

The door was never to reopen; but through its narrow crack Glennard, as the years went on,
became more and more conscious of an inextinguishable light directing its small ray toward
the past which consumed so little of his own commemorative oil. The reproach was taken from
this thought by Mrs. Aubyn's gradual translation into terms of universality. In becoming a
personage she so naturally ceased to be a person that Glennard could almost look back to his
explorations of her spirit as on a visit to some famous shrine, immortalized, but in a sense
desecrated, by popular veneration.

Her letters, from London, continued to come with the same tender punctuality; but the altered
conditions of her life, the vistas of new relationships disclosed by every phrase, made her
communications as impersonal as a piece of journalism. It was as though the state, the world,
indeed, had taken her off his hands, assuming the maintenance of a temperament that had long
exhausted his slender store of reciprocity.

In the retrospective light shed by the letters he was blinded to their specific meaning. He
was not a man who concerned himself with literature, and they had been to him, at first, simply
the extension of her brilliant talk, later the dreaded vehicle of a tragic importunity. He
knew, of course, that they were wonderful; that, unlike the authors who give their essence
to the public and keep only a dry rind for their friends, Mrs. Aubyn had stored of her rarest
vintage for this hidden sacrament of tenderness. Sometimes, indeed, he had been oppressed,
humiliated almost, by the multiplicity of her allusions, the wide scope of her interests, her
persistence in forcing her superabundance of thought and emotion into the shallow receptacle
of his sympathy; but he had never thought of the letters objectively, as the production of
a distinguished woman; had never measured the literary significance of her oppressive prodigality.
He was almost frightened now at the wealth in his hands; the obligation of her love had never
weighed on him like this gift of her imagination: it was as though he had accepted from her
something to which even a reciprocal tenderness could not have justified his claim.

He sat a long time staring at the scattered pages on his desk; and in the sudden realization
of what they meant he could almost fancy some alchemistic process changing them to gold as
he stared. He had the sense of not being alone in the room, of the presence of another self
observing from without the stirring of subconscious impulses that sent flushes of humiliation
to his forehead. At length he stood up, and with the gesture of a man who wishes to give outward
expression to his purpose--to establish, as it were, a moral alibi--swept the letters into
a heap and carried them toward the grate. But it would have taken too long to burn all the
packets. He turned back to the table and one by one fitted the pages into their envelopes;
then he tied up the letters and put them back into the locked drawer.

III

It was one of the laws of Glennard's intercourse with Miss Trent that he always went to see
her the day after he had resolved to give her up. There was a special charm about the moments
thus snatched from the jaws of renunciation; and his sense of their significance was on this
occasion so keen that he hardly noticed the added gravity of her welcome.

His feeling for her had become so vital a part of him that her nearness had the quality of
imperceptibly readjusting his point of view, so that the jumbled phenomena of experience fell
at once into a rational perspective. In this redistribution of values the sombre retrospect
of the previous evening shrank to a mere cloud on the edge of consciousness. Perhaps the only
service an unloved woman can render the man she loves is to enhance and prolong his illusions
about her rival. It was the fate of Margaret Aubyn's memory to serve as a foil to Miss Trent's
presence, and never had the poor lady thrown her successor into more vivid relief.

Miss Trent had the charm of still waters that are felt to be renewed by rapid currents. Her
attention spread a tranquil surface to the demonstrations of others, and it was only in days
of storm that one felt the pressure of the tides. This inscrutable composure was perhaps her
chief grace in Glennard's eyes. Reserve, in some natures, implies merely the locking of empty
rooms or the dissimulation of awkward encumbrances; but Miss Trent's reticence was to Glennard
like the closed door to the sanctuary, and his certainty of divining the hidden treasure made
him content to remain outside in the happy expectancy of the neophyte.

"You didn't come to the opera last night," she began, in the tone that seemed always rather
to record a fact than to offer a reflection on it.

He answered with a discouraged gesture. "What was the use? We couldn't have talked."

"Not as well as here," she assented; adding, after a meditative pause, "As you didn't come
I talked to Aunt Virginia instead."

"Ah!" he returned, the fact being hardly striking enough to detach him from the contemplation
of her hands, which had fallen, as was their wont, into an attitude full of plastic possibilities.
One felt them to be hands that, moving only to some purpose, were capable of intervals of serene
inaction.

"We had a long talk," Miss Trent went on; and she waited again before adding, with the increased
absence of stress that marked her graver communications, "Aunt Virginia wants me to go abroad
with her."

Glennard looked up with a start. "Abroad? When?"

"Now--next month. To be gone two years."

He permitted himself a movement of tender derision. "Does she really? Well, I want you to go
abroad with ME--for any number of years. Which offer do you accept?"

"Only one of them seems to require immediate consideration," she returned, with a smile.

Glennard looked at her again. "You're not thinking of it?"

Her gaze dropped and she unclasped her hands. Her movements were so rare that they might have
been said to italicize her words. "Aunt Virginia talked to me very seriously. It will be a
great relief to mother and the others to have me provided for in that way for two years. I
must think of that, you know." She glanced down at her gown which, under a renovated surface,
dated back to the first days of Glennard's wooing. "I try not to cost much--but I do."

"Good Lord!" Glennard groaned.

They sat silent till at length she gently took up the argument. "As the eldest, you know, I'm
bound to consider these things. Women are such a burden. Jim does what he can for mother, but
with his own children to provide for it isn't very much. You see, we're all poor together."

"Your aunt isn't. She might help your mother."

"She does--in her own way."

"Exactly--that's the rich relation all over! You may be miserable in any way you like, but
if you're to be happy you've got to be so in her way--and in her old gowns."

"I could be very happy in Aunt Virginia's old gowns," Miss Trent interposed.

"Abroad, you mean?"

"I mean wherever I felt that I was helping. And my going abroad will help."

"Of course--I see that. And I see your considerateness in putting its advantages negatively."

"Negatively?"

"In dwelling simply on what the going will take you from, not on what it will bring you to.
It means a lot to a woman, of course, to get away from a life like this." He summed up in a
disparaging glance the background of indigent furniture. "The question is how you'll like coming
back to it."

She seemed to accept the full consequences of his thought. "I only know I don't like leaving it."

He flung back sombrely, "You don't even put it conditionally then?"

Her gaze deepened. "On what?"

He stood up and walked across the room. Then he came back and paused before her. "On the alternative
of marrying me."

The slow color--even her blushes seemed deliberate--rose to her lower lids; her lips stirred,
but the words resolved themselves into a smile and she waited.

He took another turn, with the thwarted step of the man whose nervous exasperation escapes
through his muscles.

"And to think that in fifteen years I shall have a big practice!"

Her eyes triumphed for him. "In less!"

"The cursed irony of it! What do I care for the man I shall be then? It's slaving one's life
away for a stranger!" He took her hands abruptly. "You'll go to Cannes, I suppose, or Monte
Carlo? I heard Hollingsworth say to-day that he meant to take his yacht over to the Mediterranean--"

She released herself. "If you think that--"

"I don't. I almost wish I did. It would be easier, I mean." He broke off incoherently. "I believe
your Aunt Virginia does, though. She somehow connotes Hollingsworth and the Mediterranean."
He caught her hands again. "Alexa--if we could manage a little hole somewhere out of town?"

"Could we?" she sighed, half yielding.

"In one of those places where they make jokes about the mosquitoes," he pressed her. "Could
you get on with one servant?"

"Could you get on without varnished boots?"

"Promise me you won't go, then!"

"What are you thinking of, Stephen?"

"I don't know," he stammered, the question giving unexpected form to his intention. "It's all
in the air yet, of course; but I picked up a tip the other day--"

"You're not speculating?" she cried, with a kind of superstitious terror.

"Lord, no. This is a sure thing--I almost wish it wasn't; I mean if I can work it--" He had
a sudden vision of the comprehensiveness of the temptation. If only he had been less sure of
Dinslow! His assurance gave the situation the base element of safety.

"I don't understand you," she faltered.

"Trust me, instead!" he adjured her, with sudden energy; and turning on her abruptly, "If you
go, you know, you go free," he concluded.

She drew back, paling a little. "Why do you make it harder for me?"

"To make it easier for myself," he retorted.

IV

Glennard, the next afternoon, leaving his office earlier than usual, turned, on his way home,
into one of the public libraries.

He had the place to himself at that closing hour, and the librarian was able to give an undivided
attention to his tentative request for letters--collections of letters. The librarian suggested
Walpole.

"I meant women--women's letters."

The librarian proffered Hannah More and Miss Martineau.

Glennard cursed his own inarticulateness. "I mean letters to--to some one person--a man; their
husband--or--"

"Ah," said the inspired librarian, "Eloise and Abailard."

"Well--something a little nearer, perhaps," said Glennard, with lightness. "Didn't Merimee--"

"The lady's letters, in that case, were not published."

"Of course not," said Glennard, vexed at his blunder.

"There are George Sand's letters to Flaubert."

"Ah!" Glennard hesitated. "Was she--were they--?" He chafed at his own ignorance of the sentimental
by-paths of literature.

"If you want love-letters, perhaps some of the French eighteenth century correspondences might
suit you better--Mlle. Aisse or Madame de Sabran--"

But Glennard insisted. "I want something modern--English or American. I want to look something
up," he lamely concluded.

The librarian could only suggest George Eliot.

"Well, give me some of the French things, then--and I'll have Merimee's letters. It was the
woman who published them, wasn't it?"

He caught up his armful, transferring it, on the doorstep, to a cab which carried him to his
rooms. He dined alone, hurriedly, at a small restaurant near by, and returned at once to his books.

Late that night, as he undressed, he wondered what contemptible impulse had forced from him
his last words to Alexa Trent. It was bad enough to interfere with the girl's chances by hanging
about her to the obvious exclusion of other men, but it was worse to seem to justify his weakness
by dressing up the future in delusive ambiguities. He saw himself sinking from depth to depth
of sentimental cowardice in his reluctance to renounce his hold on her; and it filled him with
self-disgust to think that the highest feeling of which he supposed himself capable was blent
with such base elements.

His awakening was hardly cheered by the sight of her writing. He tore her note open and took
in the few lines--she seldom exceeded the first page--with the lucidity of apprehension that
is the forerunner of evil.

"My aunt sails on Saturday and I must give her my answer the day after to-morrow. Please don't
come till then--I want to think the question over by myself. I know I ought to go. Won't you
help me to be reasonable?"

It was settled, then. Well, he would be reasonable; he wouldn't stand in her way; he would
let her go. For two years he had been living some other, luckier man's life; the time had come
when he must drop back into his own. He no longer tried to look ahead, to grope his way through
the endless labyrinth of his material difficulties; a sense of dull resignation closed in on
him like a fog.

"Hullo, Glennard!" a voice said, as an electric-car, late that afternoon, dropped him at an
uptown corner.

He looked up and met the interrogative smile of Barton Flamel, who stood on the curbstone watching
the retreating car with the eye of a man philosophic enough to remember that it will be followed
by another.

Glennard felt his usual impulse of pleasure at meeting Flamel; but it was not in this case
curtailed by the reaction of contempt that habitually succeeded it. Probably even the few men
who had known Flamel since his youth could have given no good reason for the vague mistrust
that he inspired. Some people are judged by their actions, others by their ideas; and perhaps
the shortest way of defining Flamel is to say that his well-known leniency of view was vaguely
divined to include himself. Simple minds may have resented the discovery that his opinions
were based on his perceptions; but there was certainly no more definite charge against him
than that implied in the doubt as to how he would behave in an emergency, and his company was
looked upon as one of those mildly unwholesome dissipations to which the prudent may occasionally
yield. It now offered itself to Glennard as an easy escape from the obsession of moral problems,
which somehow could no more be worn in Flamel's presence than a surplice in the street.

"Where are you going? To the club?" Flamel asked; adding, as the younger man assented, "Why
not come to my studio instead? You'll see one bore instead of twenty."

The apartment which Flamel described as his studio showed, as its one claim to the designation,
a perennially empty easel; the rest of its space being filled with the evidences of a comprehensive
dilettanteism. Against this background, which seemed the visible expression of its owner's
intellectual tolerance, rows of fine books detached themselves with a prominence, showing them
to be Flamel's chief care.

Glennard glanced with the eye of untrained curiosity at the lines of warm-toned morocco, while
his host busied himself with the uncorking of Apollinaris.

"You've got a splendid lot of books," he said.

"They're fairly decent," the other assented, in the curt tone of the collector who will not
talk of his passion for fear of talking of nothing else; then, as Glennard, his hands in his
pockets, began to stroll perfunctorily down the long line of bookcases--"Some men," Flamel
irresistibly added, "think of books merely as tools, others as tooling. I'm between the two;
there are days when I use them as scenery, other days when I want them as society; so that,
as you see, my library represents a makeshift compromise between looks and brains, and the
collectors look down on me almost as much as the students."

Glennard, without answering, was mechanically taking one book after another from the shelves.
His hands slipped curiously over the smooth covers and the noiseless subsidence of opening
pages. Suddenly he came on a thin volume of faded manuscript.

"What's this?" he asked, with a listless sense of wonder.

"Ah, you're at my manuscript shelf. I've been going in for that sort of thing lately." Flamel
came up and looked over his shoulders. "That's a bit of Stendhal--one of the Italian stories--and
here are some letters of Balzac to Madame Commanville."

Glennard took the book with sudden eagerness. "Who was Madame Commanville?"

"His sister." He was conscious that Flamel was looking at him with the smile that was like
an interrogation point. "I didn't know you cared for this kind of thing."

"I don't--at least I've never had the chance. Have you many collections of letters?"

"Lord, no--very few. I'm just beginning, and most of the interesting ones are out of my reach.
Here's a queer little collection, though--the rarest thing I've got--half a dozen of Shelley's
letters to Harriet Westbrook. I had a devil of a time getting them--a lot of collectors were
after them."

Glennard, taking the volume from his hand, glanced with a kind of repugnance at the interleaving
of yellow cris-crossed sheets. "She was the one who drowned herself, wasn't she?"

Flamel nodded. "I suppose that little episode adds about fifty per cent. to their value," he
said, meditatively.

Glennard laid the book down. He wondered why he had joined Flamel. He was in no humor to be
amused by the older man's talk, and a recrudescence of personal misery rose about him like
an icy tide.

"I believe I must take myself off," he said. "I'd forgotten an engagement."

He turned to go; but almost at the same moment he was conscious of a duality of intention wherein
his apparent wish to leave revealed itself as a last effort of the will against the overmastering
desire to stay and unbosom himself to Flamel.

The older man, as though divining the conflict, laid a detaining pressure on his arm.

