Once the fort was finished, Captain Newport sailed back to England for supplies, and the little
settlement was soon in desperate straits for food. Within three months, half of the colonists
were in their graves, and bitter feuds arose among the survivors. These were for the most part
"gentlemen adventurers," who had accompanied the expedition in the hope of finding gold, and
who were wholly unfitted to cope with the conditions in which they found themselves. Of all
of them, Smith was by far the most competent, and he did valiant service in trading with the
Indians for corn and in conducting a number of expeditions in search of game.

It was while on one of these, in December, 1607, that that incident of his career occurred
which is all that a great many people know of Captain John Smith. With two companions, he was
paddling in a canoe up the Chickahominy, when the party was attacked by Indians. Smith's two
companions were killed, and he himself saved his life only by exhibiting his compass and doing
other things to astonish and impress the savages.

He was finally taken captive to the Powhatan, the ruler of the tribe, and, according to Smith's
story, a long debate ensued among the Indians as to his fate. Presently two large stones were
laid before the chief, and Smith was dragged to them and his head forced down upon them, but
even as one of the warriors raised his club to dash out the captive's brains, the Powhatan's
daughter, a child of thirteen named Pocahontas, threw herself upon him, shielding his head
with hers, and claimed him for her own, after the Indian custom. Smith was thereupon released,
adopted into the tribe, and sent back to Jamestown, where he arrived on the eighth of January,
1608.

From the Indian standpoint, there was nothing especially unusual about this procedure, for
any member of the tribe was privileged to claim a captive, if he wished. A century before,
Ortiz, a member of De Soto's expedition, had been captured by the Indians and saved in precisely
the same way, and many instances of the kind occurred in the years which followed. But to the
captive, it partook of the very essence of romance; he had only the dimmest idea of what was
really happening, and his account of it, written many years later, was of the most sentimental
kind. Many doubts have been cast on the story, and historians seem hopelessly divided about
it, as they are about many other incidents of Smith's life. Certain it is, however, that Pocahontas
afterwards befriended the colony on more than one occasion; and was finally converted, married
to a planter named John Rolfe, and taken to England, where, among the artificialities of court
life, she soon sickened and died.

On the very day that Smith reached Jamestown with his Indian escort, the supply ship sent out
by Captain Newport also arrived, bringing 120 new colonists. Of the original 105, only thirty-eight
were left alive. But Smith's enemies were yet in the ascendancy, and he spent the summer of
1608 in exploration, leaving the colony to its own devices. When he returned to it in September,
he found it reduced and disheartened. His brave and cheery presence acted as a tonic, and at
last the colonists, appreciating him at his true value, elected him president. He put new life
into everyone, and when, soon afterwards, Newport arrived again from England with fresh supplies,
he found the colony in fairly good shape.

But the members of the Virginia Company were growing impatient at the failure of the venture
to bring any returns, and they sent out instructions by Newport demanding that either a lump
of gold be sent back to England or that the way to the South Sea be discovered. Smith said
plainly that the instructions were ridiculous, and wrote an answer to them in blunt soldier
English. Then, turning his hand in earnest to the government of the disorderly rabble under
him, he instituted an iron discipline, whipped the laggards into line, and by the end of April
had some twenty houses built, thirty or forty acres of ground broken up and planted, nets and
weirs arranged for fishing, a new fortress under way, and various small manufactures begun.
A great handicap was the system, by which all property was held in common, so that the drones
shared equally with the workers, but Smith took care that there should be few drones. There
can be no doubt that his sheer will power kept the colony together, but his credit with the
company was undermined by enemies in England, nor did his own blunt letter help matters. The
company was re-organized on a larger scale, a new governor appointed, new colonists started
on the way; and, finally, in 1609, Smith was so seriously wounded by the explosion of a bag
of gun-powder, that he gave up the struggle and returned to England.

Instant disaster followed. When he left the colony, it numbered five hundred souls; when the
next supply ship reached it in May, 1610, it consisted of sixty scarecrows, mere wrecks of
human beings. The rest had starved to death--or been eaten by their companions! There was a
hasty consultation, and it was decided that Virginia must be abandoned. On Thursday, June 7,
1610, the cabins were stripped of such things as were of value, and the whole company went
on shipboard and started down the river--only to meet, next day, in Hampton Roads, a new expedition
headed by the new governor, Lord Delaware, himself! By this slight thread of coincidence was
the fate of Virginia determined.

The ship put about at once, and on the following Sunday morning, Lord Delaware stepped ashore
at Jamestown, and, falling to his knees, thanked God that he had been in time to save Virginia.
He proceeded at once to place the colony upon a new and sounder basis, and it was never again
in danger of extinction, though Jamestown itself was finally abandoned as unsuited to a settlement
on account of its malarious atmosphere. But Virginia itself grew apace into one of the greatest
of England's colonies in America.

John Smith himself never returned to Virginia. In 1614, he explored the coast south of the
Penobscot, giving it the name it still bears, New England. A year later, while on another expedition,
he was captured by the French and forced to serve against the Spaniards. Broken in health and
fortune, he spent his remaining years in London, dying there in 1631. There is a portrait of
him, showing him as a handsome, bearded man, with nose and mouth bespeaking will and spirit--just
such a man as one would imagine this gallant soldier of fortune to have been.

While the English, under the guiding hand of John Smith, were fighting desperately to maintain
themselves upon the James, the French were struggling to the same purpose and no less desperately
along the St. Lawrence. We have seen how Jacques Cartier explored and named that region, but
civil and religious wars in France put an end to plans of colonization for half a century,
and it was not until 1603 that Samuel Champlain, the founder of New France, and one of the
noblest characters in American history, embarked for the New World.

Samuel Champlain was born at Brouage about 1567, the son of a sea-faring father, and his early
years were spent upon the sea. He served in the army of the Fourth Henry, and after the peace
with Spain, made a voyage to Mexico. Upon his return to France in 1603, he found a fleet preparing
to sail to Canada, and at once joined it. Some explorations were made of the St. Lawrence,
but the fleet returned to France within the year, without accomplishing anything in the way
of colonization. Another expedition in the following year saw the founding of Port Royal, while
Champlain made a careful exploration of the New England coast, but he found nothing that attracted
him as did the mighty river to the north. Thither, in 1608, he went, and sailing up the river
to a point where a mighty promontory rears its head, disembarked and erected the first rude
huts of the city which he called by the Indian name of Quebec, or "The Narrows." A wooden wall
was built, mounting a few small cannon and loopholed for musketry, and the conquest of Canada
had begun. A magnificent cargo of furs was dispatched to France, and Champlain and twenty-eight
men were left to winter at Quebec. When spring came, only nine were left alive, but reinforcements
and supplies soon arrived, and Champlain arranged to proceed into the interior and explore
the country.

The resources at his disposal were small, he could not hope to assemble a great expedition;
so he determined to make the venture with only a few men and little baggage, relying upon the
friendship of the Indians, instead of seeking to conquer them, as the Spaniards had always
done. Champlain had from the first treated the Indians well, and it was this necessity of gaining
their friendship that determined the policy which France pursued--the policy of making friends
of the Indians, entering into an alliance with them, and helping them fight their battles.
Champlain opened operations by joining an Algonquin war-party against the Iroquois, and assisting
at their defeat--starting, at the same time, a blood feud with that powerful tribe which endured
as long as the French held Canada. In the course of this expedition, he discovered the beautiful
lake which bears his name.

He went back to France for a time, after that, and on his next return to Canada, in 1611, began
building a town at the foot of a rock which had been named Mont Royal, since corrupted to Montreal.
Succeeding years were spent in further explorations, which carried him across Lake Ontario,
and in plans for the conversion of the Indians, to which the aid of the Jesuits was summoned.
Missions were established, and the intrepid priests pushed their way farther and farther into
the wilderness. To this work, Champlain gave more and more of his thought in the last years
of his life, which ended on Christmas day, 1635.

Among the young men whom Champlain set to work among the Indians was Jean Nicolet. The year
before his death, Champlain sent him on an exploring expedition to the west, in the course
of which he visited Lake Michigan and perhaps Lake Superior. Following in his footsteps, the
Jesuits gradually established missions as far west as the Wisconsin River, and, finally, in
1670, at Sault Ste. Marie, the French formally took possession of the whole Northwest.

It was at about this time there appeared upon the scene another of those picturesque and formidable
figures, in which this period of American history so abounds--Robert Cavalier La Salle. La
Salle was at that time only twenty years of age. He had reached Canada four years earlier and
had devoted himself for three years to the study of the Indian languages, in order to fit himself
for the career of western exploration which he contemplated. One day he was visited by a party
of Senecas, who told him of a river, which they called the Ohio, so great that many months
were required to traverse it. From their description, La Salle concluded that it must fall
into the Gulf of California, and so form the long-sought passage to China. He determined to
explore it, and after surmounting innumerable obstacles, actually did reach it, and descend
it as far as the spot where the city of Louisville now stands, afterwards exploring the Illinois
and the country south of the Great lakes, as well as the lakes themselves.

