By this time France was deprived of her ablest minister, in the death of the cardinal de Fleury,
who had for many years managed the affairs of that kingdom. He is said to have possessed a
lively genius, and an insinuating address; to have been regular in his deportment, and moderate
in his disposition; but at the same time he has been branded as deceitful, dissembling, and
vindictive. His scheme of politics was altogether pacific; he endeavoured to accomplish his
purposes by raising and fomenting intrigues at foreign courts; he did not seem to pay much
regard to the military glory of France; and he too much neglected the naval power of that kingdom.
Since Broglio was driven out of Germany, the French court affected uncommon moderation. They
pretended that their troops had only acted as auxiliaries while they remained in the empire;
being, however, apprehensive of an irruption into their own dominions, they declared that those
troops were no longer to be considered in that light, but as subjects acting in the service
of France. The campaign in Italy proved unfavourable to the Spaniards. In the beginning of
February count Gages, who commanded the Spanish army in the Bolognese, amounting to four-and-twenty
thousand men, passed the Penaro, and advanced to Cam-po-Santo, where he encountered the Imperial
and Pied-montese forces, commanded by the counts Traun and Aspremont. The strength of the two
armies was nearly equal. The action was obstinate and bloody, though indecisive. The Spaniards
lost about four thousand men, killed, wounded, or taken. The damage sustained by the confederates
was not quite so great. Some cannon and colours were taken on both sides; and each claimed
the victory. Count Gages repassed the Penaro; retreated suddenly from Bologna; and marched
to Rimini in the ecclesiastical state, where he fortified his camp in an advantageous situation,
after having suffered severely by desertion. Count Traun remained inactive in the Modenese
till September, when he resigned his command to prince Lobkowitz. This general entered the
Bolognese in October, and then advanced towards count Gages, who, with his forces, now induced
to seven thousand, retreated to Fano; but afterwards took possession of Pesaro, and fortified
all the passes of the river Froglia. The season was far advanced before the Spanish troops,
commanded by don Philip in Savoy, entered upon action. In all probability, the courts of Versailles
and Madrid carried on some private negotiation with the king of Sardinia. This expedient failing,
don Philip decamped from Chamberri in the latter end of August, and defiling through Dauphiné
towards Briancon, was joined by the prince of Conti, at the head of twenty thousand French
auxiliaries. Thus reinforced, he attacked the Piedmontese lines at Chateau Dauphine; but was
repulsed in several attempts, and obliged to retreat with considerable loss. The French established
their winter quarters in Dauphiné and Provence; and the Spaniards maintained their footing
in Savoy.

TRANSACTIONS OF THE BRITISH FLEET.

