At this moment, some naked savages appeared upon the newly discovered coast. Columbus had his
long boat lowered, and got into it with Alonzo and Yanez Pinzon, the comptroller Rodrigo, the
secretary Descovedo, and some others. He landed upon the shore, carrying in his hand the royal
banner, whilst the two captains bore between them the green banner of the Cross, upon which
were interlaced, the initials of Ferdinand and Isabella. Then the admiral solemnly took possession
of the island in the name of the King and Queen of Spain, and caused a record of the act to
be drawn up. During this ceremony the natives came round Columbus and his companions. M. Charton
gives the account of the scene in the very words of Columbus: "Desiring to inspire them (the
natives) with friendship for us, and being persuaded, on seeing them, that they would confide
the more readily in us, and be the better disposed towards embracing our Holy Faith, if we
used mildness in persuading them, rather than if we had recourse to force, I caused to be given
to several amongst them, coloured caps, and also glass beads, which they put around their necks.
I added various other articles of small value; they testified great joy, and showed so much
gratitude that we marvelled greatly at it. When we were re-embarking, they swam towards us,
to offer us parroquets, balls of cotton thread, zagayes (or long darts), and many other things;
in exchange we gave them some small glass beads, little bells, and other objects. They gave
us all they had, but they appeared to me to be very poor. The men and women both were as naked
as when they were born. Amongst those whom we saw, one woman was rather young, and none of
the men appeared to be more than thirty years of age. They were well made, their figures handsome,
and their faces agreeable. Their hair, coarse as that of a horse's tail, hung down in front
as low as their eyebrows, behind it formed a long mass, which they never cut. There are some
who paint themselves with a blackish pigment; their natural colour being neither black nor
white, but similar to that of the inhabitants of the Canary islands; some paint themselves
with white, some with red, or any other colour, either covering the whole body with it, or
the whole face, or perhaps only the eyes, or the nose. They do not carry arms like our people,
and do not even know what they are. When I showed them some swords, they laid hold of them
by the blades, and cut their fingers. They have no iron; their zagayes are sticks, the tip
is not of iron, but sometimes made of a fish tooth, or of some other hard substance. They have
much grace in their movements. I remarked that several had scars upon their bodies, and I asked
them by means of signs, how they had been wounded. They answered in the same manner, that the
inhabitants of the neighbouring islands had come to attack them, and make them prisoners, and
that they had defended themselves. I thought then and I still think that they must have come
from the mainland to make them prisoners for slaves; they would be faithful and gentle servants.
They seem to have the power of repeating quickly what they hear. I am persuaded that they might
be converted to Christianity without difficulty, for I believe that they belong to no sect."

When Columbus returned on board, several of the savages swam after his boat; the next day,
the 13th, they came in crowds around the ships, on board of enormous canoes shaped out of the
trunks of trees; they were guided by means of a kind of baker's shovel, and some of the canoes
were capable of holding forty men. Several natives wore little plates of gold hanging from
their nostrils; they appeared much surprised at the arrival of the strangers, and quite believed
that these white men must have fallen from the skies. It was with a mixture of respect and
curiosity that they touched the garments of the Spaniards, considering them doubtless, a kind
of natural plumage. The scarlet coat of the admiral excited their admiration above everything,
and it was evident they looked upon Columbus as a parroquet of a superior species; at once
they seemed to recognize him as the chief amongst the strangers.

So Columbus and his followers visited this new island of San Salvador. They were never tired
of admiring the beauty of its situation, its magnificent groves, its running streams, and verdant
meadows. The fauna of the island offered little variety; parroquets of radiant plumage abounded
amongst the trees, but they appeared to be the only species of birds upon the island. San Salvador
presented an almost flat plateau of which no mountain broke the uniformity; a small lake occupied
the centre of the island. The explorers imagined that San Salvador must contain great mineral
riches, since the inhabitants were adorned with ornaments of gold. But was this precious metal
derived from the island itself? Upon this point the admiral questioned one of the natives,
and succeeded in learning from him by means of signs, that in turning the island and sailing
towards the south, the admiral would find a country of which the king possessed great vessels
of gold and immense riches. The next morning, at daybreak, Columbus gave orders to have the
ships prepared for sea; he set sail, and steered towards the continent of which the natives
had spoken, which, as he imagined, could be none other than Cipango.

Here an important observation must be made, showing the state of geographical knowledge at
this period: viz. that Columbus now believed himself to have arrived at Asia, Cipango being
the name given by Marco Polo to Japan. This error of the admiral, shared in by all his companions,
was not rectified for many years afterwards, and thus, as we have already remarked, the great
navigator after four successive voyages to the islands, died, without knowing that he had discovered
a new world. It is beyond doubt that the sailors of Columbus, and Columbus himself, imagined
that they had arrived, during that night of the 12th October, 1492, either at Japan, or China,
or the Indies. This is the reason why America so long bore the name of the "Western Indies,"
and why the aborigines of this continent, in Brazil and in Mexico, as well as in the United
States, are still classed under the general appellation of "Indians."

So Columbus dreamt only of reaching the shores of Japan. He coasted along San Salvador, exploring
its western side. The natives, running down to the shore, offered him water and cassava bread,
made from the root of a plant called the "Yucca." Several times the admiral landed upon the
coast at different points, and with a sad want of humanity, he carried away some of the natives,
that he might take them with him to Spain. Poor men! already the strangers began to tear them
from their country; it would not be long before they began to sell them! At last the caravels
lost sight of San Salvador, and were again upon the wide ocean.

Fortune had favoured Columbus in thus guiding him into the centre of one of the most beautiful
archipelagos which the world contains. These new lands which he discovered were as a casket
of precious stones, which needed only to be opened, and the hands of the discoverer were full
of treasures. On the 15th October, at sunset, the flotilla came to anchor near the western
point of a second island, at a distance of only fifteen miles from San Salvador; this island
was named Conception; on the morrow the admiral landed upon the shore, having his men well
armed for fear of surprise; the natives, however, proved to be of the same race as those of
San Salvador, and gave a kind welcome to the Spaniards. A south-easterly wind having arisen,
Columbus soon put to sea again, and twenty-seven miles further westward, he discovered a third
island, which he called Fernandina, but which now goes by the name of the Great Exuma. All
night they lay-to, and next day, the 17th October, large native canoes came off to the vessels.
The relations with the natives were excellent, the savages peacefully exchanging fruit, and
small balls of cotton for glass beads, tambourines, needles, which took their fancy greatly,
and some molasses, of which they appeared very fond. These natives of Fernandina wore some
clothing, and appeared altogether more civilized than those of San Salvador; they inhabited
houses made in the shape of tents and having high chimneys; the interiors of these dwellings
were remarkably clean and well kept. The western side of the island, with its deeply indented
shore, formed a grand natural harbour, capable of containing a hundred vessels.

But Fernandina did not afford the riches so much coveted by the Spaniards as spoils to take
back to Europe; there were no gold-mines here; the natives who were on board the flotilla always
spoke, however, of a larger island, situated to the south and called Saometo, in which the
precious metal was found. Columbus steered in the direction indicated, and during the night
of Friday, the 19th of October, he cast anchor near this Saometo, calling it Isabella; in modern
maps it goes by the name of Long Island. According to the natives of San Salvador, there was
a powerful king in this island, but the admiral for several days awaited in vain the advent
of this great personage; he did not show himself. The island of Isabella was beautiful of aspect,
with its clear lakes, and thick forests; the Spaniards were never tired of admiring the new
type of nature presented to their view, and of which the intense verdure was wonderful to European
eyes. Parroquets in innumerable flocks were flying amongst the thick trees, and great lizards,
doubtless iguanas, glided with rapid movements in the high grass. The inhabitants of the island
fled at first at the sight of the foreigners, but soon becoming bolder, they trafficked with
the Spaniards in the productions of their country.

Still Columbus held firmly to the notion of reaching the shores of Japan. The natives had mentioned
to him a large island a little to the west which they called Cuba, and this the admiral supposed
must form part of the kingdom of Cipango; he felt little doubt but that he would soon arrive
at the town of Quinsay, or Hang-tchoo-foo, formerly the capital of China. With this object,
as soon as the winds permitted, the fleet weighed anchor. On Thursday, the 25th of October,
seven or eight islands lying in a straight line were sighted, these were probably the Mucaras.
Columbus did not stop to visit them, and on the Sunday he came in sight of Cuba. The caravels
were moored in a river, to which the Spaniards gave the name of San Salvador; after a short
stay, they sailed again towards the west, and entered a harbour situated at the mouth of a
large river which was afterwards called the harbour of Las Nuevitas del Principe.

Numerous palm-trees were growing upon the shores of the island, having leaves so broad that
only one was required for roofing a native hut. The natives had fled at the approach of the
Spaniards, who found upon the shore idols of female form, tame birds, bones of animals, also
dumb dogs, and some fishing instruments. The Cuban savages, however, were ready to be enticed
like the others, and they consented to barter their goods with the Spaniards. Columbus believed
himself to be now on the mainland, and only a few leagues from Hang-tchoo-foo; this idea being
so rooted in his mind, that he even busied himself in despatching some presents to the great
Khan of China. On the 2nd of November he desired one of the officers of his ship, and a Jew
who could speak Hebrew, Chaldee, and Arabic, to set out to seek this native monarch. The ambassadors,
carrying with them strings of beads, and having six days given to them for the fulfilment of
their mission, started, taking a route leading towards the interior of this so-called continent.

In the meantime, Columbus explored for nearly six miles a splendid river which flowed beneath
the shade of woods of odoriferous trees. The inhabitants freely bartered their goods with the
Spaniards, and frequently mentioned to them a place named Bohio, where gold and pearls might
be obtained in abundance. They added that men lived there who had dogs' heads, and who fed
upon human flesh.

The admiral's envoys returned to the port on the 6th of November, after a four days' absence.
Two days had sufficed to bring them to a village composed of about fifty huts, where they were
received with every mark of respect; the natives kissing their feet and hands, and taking them
for deities descended from the skies. Among other details of native customs, they reported
that both men and women smoked tobacco by means of a forked pipe, drawing up the smoke through
their nostrils. These savages were acquainted with the secret of obtaining fire by rubbing
briskly two pieces of wood against each other. Cotton was found in large quantities in the
houses, made up into the form of tents, one of these containing as much as 11,000 pounds of
the material. As to the grand khan they saw no vestige of him.

Another consequence of the error of Columbus must be noticed here, one which, according to
Irving, changed the whole series of his discoveries. He believed himself to be on the coast
of Asia, and therefore looked upon Cuba as a portion of that continent. In consequence, he
never thought of making the tour of Cuba, but decided on returning towards the east. Now, had
he not been deceived on this occasion, and had he continued to follow the same direction as
at first, the results of his enterprise would have been greatly modified. He might then have
drifted towards Florida at the south-eastern point of North America, or he might have run direct
to Mexico. In this latter case, instead of ignorant and savage natives, what would he have
found? The inhabitants of the great Aztec Empire, of the half-civilized kingdom of Montezuma.
There he would have seen towns, armies, enormous wealth, and his rôle would no doubt have been
the same as that afterwards played by Fernando Cortès. But it was not to be thus, and the admiral,
persevering in his mistake, directed his flotilla towards the east, weighing anchor on the
12th of November, 1492.

