Jews, too, there were in plenty. For the stress of this Bill had brought Jew and Gentile together
in a new comradeship that amazed the East End. Here were groups representing the thrifty, hard-working
London Jew of the second generation,--small masters for the most part, pale with the confinement
and "drive" of the workshop,--men who are expelling and conquering the Gentile East Ender,
because their inherited passion for business is not neutralised by any of the common English
passions for spending--above all by the passion for drink. Here, too, were men of a far lower
type and grade--the waste and refuse of the vast industrial mill. Tressady knew a good many
of them by sight--sullen, quick-eyed folk, who buy their "greeners" at the docks, and work
them day and night at any time of pressure; whose workshops are still flaring at two o'clock
in the morning, and alive again by the winter dawn; who fight and flout the law by a hundred
arts, and yet, brutal and shifty as many of them are, have a curious way of winning the Gentile
inspector's sympathy, even while he fines and harasses them, so clearly are they and their
"hands" alike the victims of a huge world-struggle that does but toss them on its surge.

These gentry, however, were hard hit by more than one clause of the Maxwell Bill, and they
were here to-night to protest, as they had been already protesting at many meetings, large
and small, all over the East End. And they had their slaves with them,--ragged, hollow-eyed
creatures, newly arrived from Russian Poland, Austria, or Romania, and ready to shout or howl
in Yiddish as they were told,--men whose strange faces and eyes under their matted shocks of
black or reddish hair suggested every here and there the typical history and tragic destiny
of the race which, in other parts of the crowd, was seen under its softer and more cosmopolitan
aspects.

As the two men neared the door of the school, where the press was densest, they were recognised
as probably belonging to the Maxwell party, and found themselves a good deal jeered and hustled,
and could hardly make any way at all. However, a friendly policeman came to their aid. They
were passed into a lobby, and at last, with much elbowing and pushing, found themselves inside
the schoolroom.

So crowded was the place and so steaming the atmosphere, that it was some minutes before Tressady
could make out what was going on. Then he saw that Naseby was speaking--Naseby, looking remarkably
handsome and well curled, and much at his ease, besides, in the production of a string of Laodicean
comments on the Bill, his own workshop scheme, and the general prospects of East End labour.
He described the scheme, but in such a way as rather to damn it than praise it; and as for
the Bill itself, which he had undertaken to compare with former Factory Bills, when he sat
down he left it, indeed, in a parlous case--a poor, limping, doubtful thing, quite as likely
to ruin the East End as to do it a hand's turn of good.

Just as the speaker was coming to his peroration Tressady suddenly caught sight of a delicate
upraised profile on the platform, behind Naseby. The repressed smile on it set him smiling, too.

"What on earth do they make Naseby speak for!" said Watton, indignantly. "Idiocy! He spoils
everything he touches. Let him give the money, and other people do the talking. You can see
the people here don't know what to make of him in the least. Look at their faces.--Who's he
talking to?"

"Lady Madeleine, I think," said Tressady. "What amazing red hair that girl has! and what queer,
scared eyes! It is like an animal--one wants to stroke her."

"Well, Naseby strokes her," said Watton, laughing. "Look at her; she brightens up directly
he comes near."

Tressady thought of the tale Fontenoy had just told him, and wondered. Consolation seemed to
come easy to maidens of quality.

Meanwhile various trade-unionists--sturdy, capable men, in black coats--were moving and seconding
resolutions; flinging resentful comments, too, at Naseby whenever occasion offered. Tressady
heard very little of what they had to say. His eyes and thoughts were busy with the beautiful
figure to the left of the chair. Its dignity and charm worked upon him like a spell--infused
a kind of restless happiness.

When he woke from his trance of watching, it was to turn upon Watton with impatience. How long
was this thing going on? The British workman spoke with deplorable fluency. Couldn't they push
their way through to the platform?

Watton looked at the crowd, and shrugged his shoulders.

"Not yet--I say! who's this they've put up. Come, my dear fellow, that looks like the real thing!"

Tressady turned, and saw an old man, a Jew, with a long greyish beard, coming slowly to the
front of the platform. His eyes were black and deep, sunk under white brows; he was decently
but poorly dressed; and he began to speak with a slight German accent, in an even, melancholy
voice, rather under-pitched, which soon provoked the meeting. He was vociferously invited to
speak up or sit down; and at the first interruption he stopped timorously, and looked towards
the Chair.

An elderly, grey-haired woman was presiding--no doubt to mark the immense importance of the
Bill for the women of the East End. She came forward at the man's appeal.

"My friends," she said quietly, "you let this man speak, and don't you be hard on him. He's
got a sad story to tell you, and he won't be long about it. You give him his chance. Some of
you shall have yours soon."

Up. The speaker was the paid secretary of one of the women's unions; but she had been a tailoress
for years, and had known a tragic life. Once, at a meeting where some flippant speaker had
compared the reality and frequency of "starvation" in London to the reality and frequency of
the sea serpent, Tressady had seen her get up and, with a sudden passion, describe the death
of her own daughter from hardship and want, with the tears running down her cheeks. Her appeal
to the justice of the meeting succeeded, and the old man was allowed to go on. It soon appeared
that he had been put up by one of the tailoring unions to denounce the long hours worked in
some of the Whitechapel and Spitalfields workshops. His H facts were appalling. But he put
them badly, with a dull, stumbling voice, and he got no hold on the meeting at all till suddenly
he stepped forward, paused,--his miserable face working, his head turning from if side to side,--and
finally said, with a sharp change of note:

"And now, if you please, I will tell you how it was about Isaac--my brother Isaac. It was Mr.
Jacobs "--he looked round, and pointed to the tradeunion secretary who had been speaking before
him--"Mr. Jacobs it was that put it in my mind to come here and tell you about Isaac. For the
way Isaac died was like this. He and I were born in Spitalfields; he wasn't one of your greeners--he
was a reg'lar good worker, first-rate general coat-hand, same as me. But he got with a hard
master. And last winter season but one there came a rush. And Isaac must be working six days
a week--and he must be working fourteen hours a day--and, more'n that, he must be doing his
bastes overtime, two hours one time, and an hour or so, perhaps, another; anyway, they made
it up to half a day--eight hours and more in the week. You know how they reckon it."

He stopped, grinning feebly. The trade-unionists about the platform shouted or groaned in response.
The masters round the door, with their "greeners," stood silent.

"And about Wednesday in the third week," he went on, "he come to the master, and he says--Isaac
was older than me, and his chest it would be beginning to trouble him pretty bad, so he says:
'I'm done,' he says; 'I must go home. You can get another chap to do my bastes to-night--will
you?' And the master says to Isaac: 'If you don't do your bastes overtime, if you're too high
and mighty,' he says, 'why, there's plenty as will, and you don't need to come to-morrow neither.'
And Isaac had his wife Judith at home, and four little uns; and he stopped and done his bastes,
of course. And next night he couldn't well see, and he'd been dreadful sick all day, and he
says to the master again, he says as he must go home. And the master, he says the same to him--and
Isaac stops. And on Friday afternoon he come home. And the shop had been steamin hot, but outside
it was a wind to cut yer through. And his wife Judith says to him, 'Isaac, you look starved!'
and she set him by the fire. And he sat by the fire, and he didn't say nothing. Then his hands
fell down sudden like that--"

The old man let his hands drop heavily by his side with a simple dramatic gesture. By this
time there was not a sound in the crowded room. Even the wildest and most wolfish of the greeners
were staring silently, craning brown necks forward.

"And his wife ran to him, and he falls against her; and he says, 'Lay me down, Judith, and
don't you let em wake me--not the young uns,' he says 'not for nothing and nobody. For if it
was the trump of the Most High,' he says--and Isaac was a religious man, and careful in his
speech--'I must have my sleep.' And she laid him down, and the children and she watched--and
by midnight Isaac turned himself over. He just opened his eyes once, and groaned. And he never
spoke no more--he was gone before mornin.--And his master gave Judith five shillings towards
the coffin, and the men in the shop, they raised the rest."

The old man paused. He stood considering a moment, his face and ragged beard thrown out--a
spot of greyish white--against the figures behind, his eyes blinking painfully under the gas.

"Well, we've tried many things," he said at last. "We've tried strikes and unions, and it isn't
no good. There's always one treading on another, and if you don't do it, someone else will.
It's the law as'll have to do it. You may take that and smoke it!--you won't get nothing else.
Why!"--his hoarse voice trembled--"why, they use us up cruel in the sort of shop I work for.
Ten or twelve years, and a man's all to pieces. It's the irons, and the heat, and the sitting--you
know what it is. I've lasted fifteen year, but I'm breaking up now. If my master give me the
sack for speaking here I'll have nothing but the Jewish Board of Guardians to look to. All
the same, I made up my mind as I'd come and say how they served Isaac."

He stopped abruptly, and stood quite still a moment, fronting the meeting, as though appealing
to them, through the mere squalid physical weakness he could find no more words to express.
Then, with a sort of shambling bow, he turned away, and the main body of the meeting clapped
excitedly, while at the back some of the "sweaters" grinned, and chatted sarcastic things in
Yiddish with their neighbours. Tressady saw Lady Maxwell rise eagerly as the old man passed
her, take his hand, and find him a seat.

"That, I suppose, was an emotion," said Tressady, looking down upon his companion.

"Or an argument," said Watton--"as you like!"

One other "emotion" of the same kind--the human reality at its simplest and cruellest--Tressady
afterwards remembered.

A "working-woman" was put up to second an amendment condemning the workshops clause, which
had been moved in an angry speech by one of "Fontenoy's ladies," a shrill-voiced, fashionable
person, the secretary to the local branch of the Free Workers' League. Tressady had yawned
impatiently through the speech, which had seemed to him a violent and impertinent performance.
But as the speaker sat down he was roused by an exclamation from a man beside him.

"That woman!" cried a tall curate, straining on tiptoe to see. "No! They ought to be ashamed
of themselves!"

Tressady wondered who and why; but all that he saw was that a thin, tall woman was being handed
along the bench in front of him, while her neighbours and friends clapped her on the back as
she passed, laughing and urging her on. Then, presently, there she stood on the platform, a
thin, wand-like creature, with her battered bonnet sideways on her head, a woollen crossover
on her shoulders, in spite of July, her hands clasped across her chest, her queer light eyes
wandering and smiling hither and thither. In her emaciation, her weird cheerfulness, she was
like a figure from a Dance of Death. But what was amazing was her self-possession.

"Now yer laffin' at me," she began in a conversational tone, nodding towards the group of women
she had just left. "You go 'long! I told the lidy I'd speak, an I will. Well, they comes to
me, an they ses, Mrs. Dickson, yer not to work at 'ome no longer--they'll put yer in prison
if yer do't, they ses; yer to go out ter work, same as the shop 'ands, they ses; and what's
more, if they cotch Mr. Butterford--that's my landlord; p'raps yer dunno 'im--"

She looked down at the meeting with a whimsical grin, her eyes screwed up and her crooked brows
lifted, so that the room roared merely to look at her. The trim lady-secretary, however, bent
forward with an air of annoyance. She had not, perhaps, realised that Mrs. Dickson was so much
of a character.

"If they cotch Mr. Butterford, they'll make 'im pay up smart for lettin yer do such a thing
as make knickers in 'is 'ouse. So I asks the lidy, Wot's ter become o' me an the little uns?
An she says she done know, but yer mus come and speak Tuesday night, she says--Manx Road Schools,
she says--if yer want to perwent em making a law ov it. Which I'm a doin of--aint I?"

Fresh laughter and response from the room. She went on satisfied.

"An, yer know, if I can't make the knickers at 'ome, I can't make 'em awy from 'ome. For ther
aint no shops as want kids squallin round, as fer as I can make out. An Jimmy's a limb, as
boys mos'ly are in my egsperience. Larst week 'e give the biby a 'alfpenny and two o' my biggest
buttons to swaller, an I ony jest smacked 'em out of 'er in time. Ther'd be murder done if
I was to leave 'em. An 'ow 'ud I be able to pay anyone fer lookin' after em? I can't git much,
yer know, shop or no shop. I aint wot I was."

She stopped, and pointed significantly to her chest. Tressady shuddered as the curate whispered
to him.

"I've been in orspital--cut about fearful. I can't go at the pace them shops works at. They'd
give me the sack, double-quick, if I was to go try in 'em. No, it's settin as does it--settin
an settin. I'm at it by seven, an my 'usband--yer can see im there--e'll tell yer."

She stopped, and pointed to a burly ruffian standing amid a group of "pals" round the door.
This gentleman had his arms folded, and was alternately frowning and grinning at this novel
spectacle of his wife as a public performer. Bribes had probably been necessary to bring him
to consent to the spectacle at all. But he was not happy, and when his wife pointed at him,
and the meeting turned to look, he suddenly took a dive head-foremost into the crowd about
him; so that when the laughter and horse-play that followed had subsided, it was seen that
Mr. Tom Dickson's place knew him no more.

Meanwhile Mrs. Dickson stood grinning--grinning wide and visibly. It was the strangest mirth,
as though hollow pain and laughter strove with each other for the one poor indomitable face.

"Well, ee could 'a told yer, if e'd ad the mind," she said, nodding, "for ee knows. Ee's been
out o' work this twelve an a arf year--well, come, I'll bet yer, anyway, as ee 'asn't done
a 'and's turn this three year--an I don't blime im. Fust, there isn't the work to be got, and
then yer git out of the way o' wantin it. An beside, I'm used to im. When Janey--no, it were
Sue!--were seven month old, he come in one night from the public, an after ee'd broke up most
o' the things, he says to me, 'Clear out, will yer!' An I cleared out, and Sue and me set on
the doorstep till mornin. And when mornin come, Tom opened the door, an ee says, 'What are
you doin there, mother? Why aint yer got my breakfast?' An I went in an got it. But, bless
yer, nowadays--the women won't do it!--"

Another roar went up from the meeting. Mrs. Dickson still grinned.

"An so there's nothink but settin', as I said before--settin' till yer can't set no more. If
I begin o' seven, I gets Mr. Dickson to put the teathings an the loaf andy, so as I don't 'ave
to get up more'n jes to fetch the kettle; and the chillen gets the same as me--tea an bread,
and a red 'erring Sundays; an Mr. Dickson, 'e gets 'is meals out. I gives 'im the needful,
and 'e don't make no trouble; an the children is dreadful frackshus sometimes, and gets in
my way fearful. But there, if I can set--set till I 'ear Stepney Church goin twelve--I can
earn my ten shillin a week, an keep the lot of 'em. Wot does any lidy or genelman want, a comin'
meddlin down 'ere? Now, that's the middle an both ends on it. Done? Well, I dessay I is done.
Lor, I ses to em in the orspital it do seem rummy to me to be layin abed like that. If Tom
was 'ere, why, 'e'd--"

She made a queer, significant grimace. But the audience laughed no longer. They stared silently
at the gaunt creature, and with their silence her own mood changed.

Suddenly she whipped up her apron. She drew it across her eyes, and flung it away again passionately.

"I dessay we shall be lyin abed in Kingdom Come," she said defiantly, yet piteously. "But we've
got to git there fust. An I don't want no shops, thank yer!"

She rambled on a little longer, then, at a sign from the lady-secretary, made a grinning curtsy
to the audience and departed.

"What do they get out of that?" said Watton, in Tressady's ear--"Poor galley-slave in praise
of servitude!"

"Her slavery keeps her alive, please."

"Yes--and drags down the standard of a whole class!"

"You'll admit she seemed content?"

"It's that content we want to kill.--Ah! at last!" and Watton clapped loudly, followed by about
half the meeting, while the rest sat silent. Then Tressady perceived that the chair-woman had
called upon Lady Maxwell to move the next resolution, and that the tall figure had risen.

She came forward slowly, glancing from side to side, as though doubtful where to look for her
friends. She was in black, and her head was covered with a little black lace bonnet, in the
strings of which, at her throat, shone a small diamond brooch. The delicate whiteness of her
face and hands, and this sparkle of light on her breast, that moved as she moved, struck a
thrill of pleasure through Tressady's senses. The squalid monotony and physical defect of the
crowd about him passed from his mind. Her beauty redressed the balance. "'Loveliness, magic,
and grace--they are here; they are set in the world!'--and ugliness and pain have not conquered
while this face still looks and breathes." This, and nothing less, was the cry of the young
man's heart and imagination as he strained forward, waiting for her voice.

Then he settled himself to listen--only to pass gradually from expectation to nervousness,
from nervousness to dismay.

What was happening? She had once told him that she was not a speaker, and he had not believed
her. She had begun well, he thought, though with a hesitation he had not expected. But now--had
she lost her thread--or what? Incredible! when one remembered her in private life, in conversation.
Yet these stumbling sentences, this evident distress!

Tressady found himself fidgeting in sympathetic misery. He and Watton looked at each other.

A little more, and she would have lost her audience. She had lost it. At first there had been
eager listening, for she had plunged straightway into a set explanation and defence of the
Bill point by point, and half the room knew that she was Lord Maxwell's wife. But by the end
of ten minutes their attention was gone. They were only staring at her because she was handsome
and a great lady. Otherwise, they seemed not to know what to make of her. She grew white; she
wavered. Tressady saw that she was making great efforts, and all in vain. The division between
her and her audience widened with every sentence, and Fontenoy's lady-organiser, in the background,
sat smilingly erect. Tressady, who had been at first inclined to hate the thought of her success
in this Inferno, grew hot with wrath and irritation. His own vanity suffered in her lack of
triumph.

Amazing! How could her personal magic--so famous on so many fields--have deserted her like
this in an East End schoolroom, before people whose lives she knew, whose griefs she carried
in her heart?

Then an idea struck him. The thought was an illumination--he understood. He shut his eyes and
listened. Maxwell's sentences, Maxwell's manner--even, at times, Maxwell's voice! He had been
rehearsing to her his coming speech in the House of Lords, and she was painfully repeating
it! To his disgust, Tressady saw the reporters scribbling away--no doubt they knew their business!
Aye, there was the secret. The wife's adoration showed through her very failure--through this
strange conversion of all that was manly, solid, and effective in Maxwell, into a confused
mass of facts and figures, pedantic, colourless, and cold!

Edward Watton began to look desperately unhappy. "Too long," he said, whispering in Tressady's
ear, "and too technical. They can't follow."

And he looked at a group of rough factory-girls beginning to scuffle with the young men near
them, at the restless crowd of "greeners," at the women in the centre of the hall lifting puzzled
faces to the speaker, as though in a pain of listening.

Tressady nodded. In the struggle of devotion with a half-laughing annoyance he could only crave
that the thing should be over.

But the next instant his face altered. He pushed forward instinctively, turning his back on
Watton, hating the noisy room, that would hardly let him hear.

Ah!--those few last sentences, that voice, that quiver of passion--they were her own--herself,
not Maxwell. The words were very simple, and a little tremulous--words of personal reminiscence
and experience. But for one listener there they changed everything. The room, the crowd, the
speaker--he saw them for a moment under another aspect: that poetic, eternal aspect, which
is always there, behind the veil of common things, ready to flash out on mortal eyes. He felt
the woman's heart, oppressed with a pity too great for it; the delicate, trembling consciousness,
like a point in space, weighed on by the burden of the world; he stood, as it were, beside
her, hearing with her ears, seeing the earth-spectacle as she saw it, with that terrible second
sight of hers: the all-environing woe and tragedy of human things--the creeping hunger and
pain--the struggle that leads no whither--the life that hates to live and yet dreads to die--the
death that cuts all short, and does but add one more hideous question to the great pile that
hems the path of man.

A hard, reluctant tear rose in his eyes. Is it starved tailoresses and shirtmakers alone who
suffer? Is there no hunger of the heart, that matches and overweighs the physical? Is it not
as easy for the rich as the poor to miss the one thing needful, the one thing that matters
and saves? Angrily, and in a kind of protest, he put out his hand, as it were, to claim his
own share of the common pain.

"Make way there! make way!" cried a police-sergeant, holding back the crowd, "and let the lady
pass."

Tressady did his best to push through with Lady Maxwell on his arm. But there was an angry
hum of voices in front of him, an angry pressure round the doors.

"We shall soon get a cab," he said, bending over her. "You are very tired, I fear. Please lean
upon me."

Yet he could but feel grateful to the crowd. It gave him this joy of protecting and supporting
her. Nevertheless, as he looked ahead, he wished that they were safely off, and that there
were more police!

For this meeting, which had been only mildly disorderly and inattentive while Marcella was
speaking, had suddenly flamed, after she sat down, into a fierce confusion and tumult--why,
Tressady hardly now understood. A man had sprung up to speak as she sat down who was apparently
in bad repute with most of the unions of the district. At any rate, there had been immediate
uproar and protest. The trade-unionists would not hear him--hurled names at him--"thief," "blackleg"--as
he attempted to speak. Then the Free Workers, for whom this dubious person had been lately
acting, rose in a mass and booed at the unionists; and finally some of the dark-eyed, black-bearded
"greeners" near the door, urged on, probably, by the masters, whose slaves they were, had leaped
the benches near them, shouting strange tongues, and making for the hostile throng around the
platform.

Then it had been time for Naseby and the police to clear the platform and open a passage for
the Maxwell party. Unfortunately, there was no outlet to the back, no chance of escaping the
shouting crowd in Manx Road. Tressady, joining his friends at last by dint of his height and
a free play of elbows, found himself suddenly alone with Lady Maxwell, Naseby and Lady Madeleine
borne along far behind, and no chance but to follow the current, with such occasional help
as the police stationed along the banks of it might be able to give.

Outside, Tressady strained his eyes for a cab.

"Here, sir!" cried the sergeant in front, carving a passage by dint of using his own stalwart
frame as a ram.

They hurried on, for some rough lads on the edges of the crowd had already begun stone-throwing.
The faces about them seemed to be partly indifferent, partly hostile. "Look at the bloomin
bloats!" cried a wild factory-girl with a touzled head as Lady Maxwell passed. "Let 'em stop
at 'ome and mind their own 'usbands--yah!"

"Garn! who paid for your bonnet?" shouted another, until a third girl pulled her back, panting,
"If you say that any more I'll scrag yer!" For this third girl had spent a fortnight in the
Mile End Road house, getting fed and strengthened before an operation.

But here was the cab! Lady Maxwell's foot was already on the step, when Tressady felt something
fly past him.

There was a slight cry. The form in front of him seemed to waver a moment. Then Tressady himself
mounted, caught her, and in another moment, after a few plunges from the excited horse, they
were off down Manx Road, followed by a shouting crowd that gradually thinned.

"You are hurt!" he said.

"Yes," she said faintly, "but not much. Will you tell him to drive first to Mile End Road?"

"I have told him. Can I do anything to stop the bleeding?"

He looked at her in despair. The handkerchief, and the delicate hand itself that she was holding
to her brow, were dabbled in blood.

"Have you a silk handkerchief to spare?" she asked him, smiling slightly and suddenly through
her pallor, as though at their common predicament.

By good fortune he had one. She took off her hat, and gave him a few business-like directions.
His fingers trembled as he tried to obey her; but he had the practical sense that the small
vicissitudes and hardships of travel often develop in a man, and between them they adjusted
a rough but tolerable bandage.

Then she leant against the side of the cab, and he thought she would have swooned. There was
a pause, during which he watched the quivering lines of the lips and nostrils and the pallor
of the cheeks with a feeling of dismay.

But she did not mean to faint, and little by little her will answered to her call upon it.
Presently she said, with eyes shut and brow contracted:

"I trust the others are safe. Oh! what a failure--what a failure! I am afraid I have done Aldous
harm!"

The tone of the last words touched Tressady deeply. Evidently she could hardly restrain her tears.

"They were not worthy you should go and speak to them," he said quickly. "Besides, it was only
a noisy minority."

She did not speak again till they drew up before the house in the Mile End Road. Then she turned
to him.

"I was to have stayed here for the night, but I think I must go home. Aldous might hear that
there had been a disturbance. I will leave a message here, and drive home."

"I trust you will let me go with you. We should none of us be happy to think of you as alone
just yet. And I am due at the House by eleven."

She smiled, assenting, then descended, leaning heavily upon him in her weakness.

When she reappeared, attended by her two little servants, all frightened and round-eyed at
their mistress's mishap, she had thrown a thick lace scarf round her head, which hid the bandage
and gave to her pale beauty a singularly touching, appealing air.

"I wish I could see Madeleine," she said anxiously, standing beside the cab and looking up
the road. "Ah!"

For she had suddenly caught sight of a cab in the distance driving smartly up. As it approached,
Naseby and Lady Madeleine were plainly to be seen inside it. The latter jumped out almost at
Marcella's feet, looking more scared than ever as she saw the bandage and the black scarf twisted
round the white face. But in a few moments Marcella had soothed her, and given her over, apparently,
to the care of another lady staying in the house. Then she waved her hand to Naseby, who, with
his usual coolness, asked no questions and made no remarks, and she and Tressady drove off.

"Madeleine will stay the night," Marcella explained as they sped towards Aldgate. "That was
our plan. My secretary will look after her. She has been often here with me lately, and has
things of her own to do. But I ought not to have taken her to-night. Lady Kent would never
have forgiven me if she had been hurt. Oh! it was all a mistake--all a great mistake! I suppose
I imagined--that is one's folly--that I could really do some good--make an effect."

She bit her lip, and the furrow reappeared in the white brow.

Tressady felt by sympathy that her heart was all sore, her moral being shaken and vibrating.
After these long months of labour and sympathy and emotion, the sudden touch of personal brutality
had unnerved her.

Mere longing to comfort, to "make-up," overcame him.

"You wouldn't talk of mistake--of failing--if you knew how to be near you, to listen to you,
to see you, touches and illuminates some of us!"

His cheek burnt, but he turned a manly, eager look upon her.

Her cheek, too, flushed, and he thought he saw her bosom heave.

"Oh no!--no!" she cried. "How impossible!--when one feels oneself so helpless, so clumsy, so
useless. Why couldn't I do better? But perhaps it is as well. It all prepares one--braces one--against--"

She paused and leaned forward, looking out at the maze of figures and carriages on the Mansion
House crossing, her tight-pressed lips trembling against her will.

"Against the last inevitable disappointment." That, no doubt, was what she meant.

"If you only understood how loth some of us are to differ from you," he cried,--"how hard it
seems to have to press another view,--to be already pledged."

"Oh yes!--please--I know that you are pledged," she said, in hasty distress, her delicacy shrinking
as before from the direct personal argument.

They were silent a little. Tressady looked out at the houses in Queen Victoria Street, at the
lamplit summer night, grudging the progress of the cab, the approach of the river, of the Embankment,
where there would be less traffic to bar their way--clinging to the minutes as they passed.

"Oh! how could they put up that woman?" she said presently, her eyes still shut, her hand shaking,
as it rested on the door. "How could they? It is the thought of women like that--the hundreds
and thousands of them--that goads one on. A clergyman who knows the East End well said to me
the other day, 'The difference between now and twenty years ago is that the women work much
more, the men less.' I can never get away from the thought of the women! Their lives come to
seem to me the mere refuse, the rags and shreds, that are thrown every day into the mill and
ground to nothing--without a thought--without a word of pity, an hour of happiness! Cancer--three
children left out of nine--and barely forty, though she looked sixty! They tell me she may
live eighteen months. Then, when the parish has buried her, the man has only to hold up his
finger to find someone else to use up in the same way. And she is just one of thousands."

"I can only reply by the old, stale question," said Tressady, sturdily. "Did we make the mill?
Can we stop its grinding? And if not, is it fair even to the race that has something to gain
from courage and gaiety--is it reasonable to take all our own poor little joy and drench it
in this horrible pain of sympathy, as you do! But we have said all these things before."

He bent over to her, smiling. But she did not look up. And he saw a tear which her weakness,
born of shock and fatigue, could not restrain, steal from the lashes on the cheek. Then he
added, still leaning towards her:

"Only, what I never have said--I think--is what is true to-night. At last you have made one
person feel--if that matters anything!--the things you feel. I don't know that I am particularly
grateful to you! And, practically, we may be as far apart as ever. But I was without a sense
when I went into this game of politics; and now--"

His heart beat. What would he not have said, mad youth!--within the limits imposed by her nature
and his own dread--to make her look at him, to soften this preposterous sadness!

But it needed no more. She opened her eyes, and looked at him with a wild sweetness and gratitude
which dazzled him, and struck his memory with the thought of the Southern, romantic strain in her.

"You are very kind and comforting!" she said; "but then, from the first--somehow--I knew you
were a friend to us. One felt it--through all difference."

The little sentences were steeped in emotion--emotion springing from many sources, fed by a
score of collateral thoughts and memories--with which Tressady had, in truth, nothing to do.
Yet the young man gulped inwardly. She had been a tremulous woman till the words were said.
Now--strange!--through her very gentleness and gratefulness, a barrier had risen between them.
Something stern and quick told him this was the very utmost of what she could ever say to him--the
farthest limit of it all.

They passed under Charing Cross railway bridge. Beside them, as they emerged, the moon shone
out above the darks and silvers of the river, and in front, the towers of Westminster rose
purplish grey against a west still golden.

"How were things going in the House this afternoon?" she asked, looking at the towers. "Oh!
I forgot. You see, the clock says close on eleven. Please let me drop you here. I can manage
by myself quite well."

He protested, and she yielded, with a patient kindness that made him sore. Then he gave his
account, and they talked a little of Monday's division and of the next critical votes in Committee--each
of them, so he felt in his exaltation, a blow dealt to her--that he must help to deal. Yet
there was a fascination in the topic. Neither could get away from it.

Presently, Pall Mall being very full of traffic, they had to wait a moment at the corner of
the street that turns into St. James's Square. In the pause Tressady caught sight of a man
on the pavement. The man smiled, looked astonished, and took off his hat. Lady Maxwell bowed
coldly, and immediately looked away. Tressady recognised Harding Watton. But neither he nor
she mentioned his name.

In another minute he had seen her vanish within the doors of her own house. Her hand had rested
gently, willingly, in his.

"I am so grateful!" she had said; "so will Maxwell be. We shall meet soon, and laugh over our
troubles!"

And then she was gone, and he was left standing a moment, bewildered.

Eleven? What had he to do?

Then he remembered his pair, and that he had promised to call for Letty at a certain house,
and take her on to a late ball. The evening, in fact, instead of ending, was just beginning.
He could have laughed, as he got back into his cab.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile Marcella had sped through the outer hall into the inner, where one solitary light,
still burning, made a rather desolate dark-in-light through the broad, pillared space. A door
opened at the farther side.

"Aldous!"

"You!"

He came out, and she flew to him. He felt her trembling as she touched him. In ten words she
told him something of what had happened. Then he saw the bandage round her temple. His countenance
fell. She knew that he turned white, and loved him for it. How few things had power to move him so!

He wanted to lead her back into his library, where he was at work. But she resisted.

"Let me go up to Annette," she said. "The little wound--oh! it is not much, I know it is not
much--ought to be properly seen to. We will do it between us in a moment. Then come--I will
send her down for you. I want to tell you."

But in her heart of hearts she was just a little afraid of telling him. What if an exaggerated
version should get into the papers--if it should really do him harm--at this critical moment!
She was always tormented by this dread, a dread born of long-past indiscretions and mistakes.

He acquiesced, but first he insisted on half leading, half carrying her upstairs; and she permitted
it, delighting in his strong arm.

Half an hour later she sent for him. The maid found him pacing up and down the hall, waiting.

When he entered her room she was lying on her sofa in a white wrapper of some silky stuff.
The black lace had been drawn again round her head, and he saw nothing but a very pale face
and her eager, timid eyes--timid for no one in the world but him. As he caught sight of her,
she produced in him that exquisite mingled impression of grace, passion, self-yielding, which
in all its infinite variations and repetitions made up for him the constant poem of her beauty.
But though she knew it, she glanced at him anxiously as he approached her. It had been to her
a kind of luxury of feeling, in the few moments that she had been waiting for him, to cherish
a little fear of him--of his displeasure.

"Now describe exactly what you have been doing," he said, sitting down by her with a troubled
face and taking her hand, as soon as he had assured himself that the cut was slight and would
leave no scar.

She told her tale, and was thrilled to see that he frowned. She laid her hand on his shoulder.

"It is the first public thing I have done without consulting you. I meant to have asked you
yesterday, but we were both so busy. The meeting was got up rather hurriedly, and they pressed
me to speak, after all the arrangements were made."

"We are both of us too busy," he said, rather sadly; "we glance, and nod, and bustle by--"

He did not finish the quotation, but she could. Her eyes scanned his face. "Do you think I
ought to have avoided such a thing at such a time? Will it do harm?"

His brow cleared. He considered the matter.

"I think you may expect some of the newspapers to make a good deal of it," he said, smiling.

And, in fact, his own inherited tastes and instincts were all chafed by her story. His wife--the
wife of a Cabinet Minister--pleading for her husband's Bill, or, as the enemy might say, for
his political existence, with an East End meeting, and incidentally with the whole public--exposing
herself, in a time of agitation, to the rowdyism and the stone-throwing that wait on such things!
The notion set the fastidious old-world temper of the man all on edge. But he would never have
dreamed of arguing the matter so with her. A sort of high chivalry forbade it. In marrying
her he had not made a single condition--would have suffered tortures rather than lay the smallest
fetter upon her. In consequence, he had been often thought a weak, uxorious person. Maxwell
knew that he was merely consistent. No sane man lays his heart at the feet of a Marcella without
counting the cost.

She did not answer his last remark. But he saw that she was wistful and uneasy, and presently
she laid her fingers lightly on his.

"Tell me if I am too much away from you--too much occupied with other people."

He sighed,--the slightest sigh,--but she winced. "I had just an hour before dinner," he said;
"you were not here, and the house seemed very empty. I would have come down to fetch you, but
there were some important papers to read before to-morrow." A Cabinet meeting was fixed, as
she knew, for the following day. "Then, I have been making Saunders draw up a statement for
the newspapers in answer to Watton's last attack, and it would have been a help to talk to
you before we sent it off. Above all, if I had known of the meeting I should have begged you
not to go. I ought to have warned you yesterday, for I knew that there was some ugly agitation
developing down there. But I never thought of you as likely to face a mob. Will you please
reflect"--he pressed her hand almost roughly against his lips--"that if that stone had been
a little heavier, and flung a little straighter--"

He paused. A dew came to her eyes, a happy glow to her cheek. As for her, she was grateful
to the stone that had raised such heart-beats.

Perhaps some instinct told him not to please her in this way too much, for he rose and walked
away a moment.

"There! don't let's think of it, or I shall turn tyrant after all, and plunge into 'shalls'
and 'sha'n'ts'! You know you carry two lives, and all the plans that either of us care about,
in your hand. You say that Tressady brought you home?"

He turned and looked at her.

"Yes. Edward Watton brought him to the meeting."

"But he has been down to see you there several times before, as well as coming here?"

"Oh yes! almost every week since we met at Castle Luton."

"It is curious," said Maxwell, thoughtfully; "for he will certainly vote steadily with Fontenoy
all through. His election speeches pledged him head over ears."

"Oh! of course he will vote," said Marcella, moving a little uneasily; "but one cannot help
trying to modify his way of looking at things. And his tone is changed."

Maxwell stood at the foot of her sofa, considering, a host of perplexed and unwelcome notions
flitting across his mind. In spite of his idealist absorption in his work, his political aims,
and the one love of his life, he had the training of a man of the world, and could summon the
shrewdness of one when he pleased. He had liked this young Tressady, for the first time, at
Castle Luton, and had seen him fall under Marcella's charm with some amusement. But this haunting
of their camp in the East End, at such a marked and critical moment, was strange, to say the
least of it. It must point, one would think, to some sudden and remarkable strength of personal
influence.

Had she any real consciousness of the power she wielded? Once or twice, in the years since
they had been married, Maxwell had watched this spell of his wife's at work, and had known
a moment of trouble. "If I were the fellow she had talked and walked with so," he had once
said to himself, "I must have fallen in love with her had she been twenty times another man's
wife!" Yet no harm had happened; he had only reproached himself for a gross mind without daring
to breathe a word to her.

And he dared not now. Besides, how absurd! The young man was just married, and, to Maxwell's
absent, incurious eyes, the bride had seemed a lively, pretty little person enough. No doubt
it was the nervous strain of his political life that made such fancies possible to him. Let
him not cumber her ears with them!

Then gradually, as he stood at her feet, the sight of her, breathing weakness, submission,
loveliness, her eyes raised to his, banished every other thought from his happy heart, and
drew him like a magnet.

Meanwhile she began to smile. He knelt down beside her, and she put both hands on his shoulders.

"Dear!" she said, half laughing and half crying, "I did speak so badly; you would have been
ashamed of me. I couldn't hold the meeting. I didn't persuade a soul. Lord Fontenoy's ladies
had it all their own way. And first I was dreadfully sorry I couldn't do such a thing decently--sorry
because of one's vanity, and sorry because I couldn't help you. And now I think I'm rather glad."

"Are you?" said Maxwell, drily; "as for me, I'm enchanted! There!--so much penalty you shall have."

She pressed his lips with her hand.

"Don't spoil my pretty speech. I am only glad because--because public life and public success
make one stand separate--alone. I have gone far enough to know how it might be. A new passion
would come in, and creep through one like a poison. I should win you votes--and our hearts
would burn dry! There! take me--scold me--despise me. I am a poor thing--but yours!"

With such a humbleness might Diana have wooed her shepherd, stooping her goddess head to him
on the Latmian steep.

CHAPTER XV

George went back to the House, and stayed for half an hour or so, listening to a fine speech
from a member of a former Liberal Cabinet. The speech was one more sign of the new cleavage
of parties that was being everywhere brought about by the pressure of the new Collectivism.

"We always knew," said the speaker, referring to a Ministry in which he had served seven years
before, "that we should be fighting Socialism in good earnest before many years were over;
and we knew, too, that we should be fighting it as put forward by a Conservative Government.
The hands are the hands of the English Tory, the voice is the voice of Karl Marx."

The Socialists sent forth mocking cheers, while the Government benches sat silent. The rank-and-file
of the Conservative party already hated the Bill. The second reading must go through. But if
only some rearrangement were possible without rushing the country into the arms of revolutionists--if
it were only conceivable that Fontenoy, or even the old Liberal gang, should form a Government,
and win the country, the Committee stage would probably not trouble the House long.

Meanwhile in the smoking-rooms and lobbies the uncertainties of the coming division kept up
an endless hum of gossip and conjecture. Tressady wandered about it all like a ghost, indifferent
and preoccupied, careful above all to avoid any more talk with Fontenoy. While he was in the
House itself he stood at the door or sat in the cross-benches, so as to keep a space between
him and his leader.

A little before twelve he drove home, dressed hastily, and went off to a house in Berkeley
Square, where he was to meet Letty. He found her waiting for him, a little inclined to be reproachful,
and eager for her ball. As they drove towards Queen's Gate she chattered to him of her evening,
and of the people and dresses she had seen.

"And, you foolish boy!" she broke out, laughing, and tapping him on the hand with her fan--"you
looked so glum this morning when I couldn't go and see Lady Tressady--and--what do you think?
Why, she has been at a party to-night--at a party, my dear!--and dressed! Mrs. Willy Smith
told me she had seen her at the Webers'."

"I daresay," said George, rather shortly; "all the same, this morning she was very unwell."

Letty shrugged her shoulders, but she did not want to be disagreeable and argue the point.
She was much pleased with her dress--with the last glance of herself that she had caught in
the cloak-room looking-glass before leaving Berkeley Square--and, finally, with this well-set-up,
well-dressed husband beside her. She glanced at him every now and then as she put on a fresh
pair of gloves. He had been very much absorbed in this tiresome Parliament lately, and she
thought herself a very good and forbearing wife not to make more fuss. Nor had she made any
fuss about his going down to see Lady Maxwell at the East End. It did not seem to have made
the smallest difference to his opinions.

The thought of Lady Maxwell brought a laugh to her lips.

"Oh! do you know, Harding was so amusing about the Maxwells to-day!" she said, turning to Tressady
in her most good-humoured and confiding mood. "He says people are getting so tired of her,--of
her meddling, and her preaching, and all the rest of it,--and that everybody thinks him so
absurd not to put a stop to it. And Harding says that it doesn't succeed even--that Englishmen
will never stand petticoat government. It's all very well--they have to stand it in some forms!"

And, stretching her slim neck, she turned and gave her husband a tiny flying kiss on the cheek.
Mechanically grateful, George took her hand in his, but he did not make her the pretty speech
she expected. Just before she spoke he was about to tell her of his evening--of the meeting,
and of his drive home with Lady Maxwell. He had been far too proud hitherto, and far too confident
in himself, to make any secret to Letty of what he did. And, luckily, she had raised no difficulties.
In truth, she had been too well provided with amusements and flatteries of her own since their
return from the country to leave her time or opportunities for jealousy. Perhaps, secretly,
the young husband would have been more flattered if she had been more exacting.

But as she quoted Harding something stiffened in him. Later, after the ball, when they were
alone, he would tell her--he would try and make her understand what sort of a woman Marcella
Maxwell was. In his trouble of mind a confused plan crossed his thoughts of trying to induce
Lady Maxwell to make friends with Letty. But a touch of that charm, that poetry!--he asked no more.

He glanced at his wife. She looked pretty and young as she sat beside him, lost in a pleasant
pondering of social successes. But he wondered, uncomfortably, why she must use such a thickness
of powder on her still unspoilt complexion; and her dress seemed to him fantastic, and not
over-modest. He had begun to have the strangest feeling about their relation, as though he
possessed a double personality, and were looking on at himself and her, wondering how it would
end. It was characteristic, perhaps, of his half-developed moral life that his sense of ordinary
husbandly responsibility towards her was not strong. He always thought of her as he thought
of himself--as a perfectly free agent, dealing with him and their common life on equal terms.

The house to which they were going belonged to very wealthy people, and Letty was looking forward
feverishly to the cotillon.

"They say, at the last dance they gave, the cotillon gifts cost eight hundred pounds," she
said gleefully, to George. "They always do things extraordinarily well."

No doubt it was the prospect of the cotillon that had brought such a throng together. The night
was stifling; the stairs and the supper-room were filled with a struggling mob; and George
spent an hour of purgatory wondering at the gaieties of his class.

He had barely more than two glimpses of Letty after they had fought their way into the room.
On the first occasion, by stretching himself to his full height so as to look over the intervening
crowd, he saw her seated in a chair of state, a mirror in one hand and a lace handkerchief
in the other. Young men were being brought up behind her to look into the glass over her shoulder,
and she was merrily brushing their images away. Presently a tall, dark fellow advanced, with
jet-black moustache and red cheeks. Letty kept her handkerchief suspended a moment over the
reflection in the glass. George could see the corners of her lips twitching with amusement.
Then she quietly handed the mirror to the leader of the cotillon, rose, gathered up her white
skirt a little, the music struck up joyously, and she and Lord Cathedine spun round the room
together, followed by the rest of the dancers.

George meanwhile found few people to talk to. He danced a few dances, mostly with young girls
in the white frocks of their first season--a species of partner for which, as a rule, he had
no affinity at all. But on the whole he passed the time leaning against the wall in a corner,
lost in a reverie which was a vague compound of this and that, there and here; of the Manx
Road schoolroom, its odours and heats, its pale, uncleanly crowd absorbed in the things of
daily bread, with these gay, scented rooms, and this extravagance of decoration, that made
even flowers a vulgarity, with these costly cotillon gifts--pins, bracelets, rings--that were
being handed round and wondered over by people who had already more of such things than they
could wear; of these rustling women, in their silks and diamonds, with that gaunt stooping
image of the loafer's wife, smiling her queer defiance at pain and fate, and letting meddling
"lidies" know that without sixteen hours' "settin" she could not keep her husband and children
alive. Stale commonplace, that all the world knows by heart!--the squalor of the pauperum tabernae
dimming the glory of the regum turres. Yet there are only a few men and women in each generation
who really pass into the eclipsing shadow of it. Others talk--they feel and struggle. There
were many elements in Tressady's nature that might seem destined to force him into their company.
Yet hitherto he had resolutely escaped his destiny--and enjoyed his life.

About supper-time he found himself near Lady Cathedine, a thin-faced, silent creature, whose
eyes suddenly attracted him. He took her down to supper, and spent an exceedingly dull time.
She had the air of one pining to talk, to confide herself. Yet in practice it was apparently
impossible for her to do it. She fell back into monosyllables or gentle banalities; and George
noticed that she was always restlessly conscious of the movements in the room--who came in,
who went out--and throwing little frightened glances towards the door.

He was glad indeed when his task was over. On their way to the drawing-rooms they passed a
broad landing, which on one side led out to a balcony, and had been made into a decorated bower
for sitting-out. At the farther end he saw Letty sitting beside Harding Watton. Letty was looking
straight before her, with a flushed and rather frowning face. Harding was talking to her, and,
to judge from his laughing manner, was amusing himself, if not her.

George duly found Lady Cathedine a seat, and returned himself to ask Letty whether it was not
time to go. He found, however, that she had been carried off by another partner, and could
only resign himself to a fresh twenty minutes of boredom. He leant, yawning, against the wall,
feeling the evening interminable.

Then a Harrow and Oxford acquaintance came up to him, and they chatted for a time behind a
stand of flowers that stood between them and one of the doorways to the ballroom. At the end
of the dance George saw Lady Cathedine hurrying up to this door with the quick, furtive step
that was characteristic of her. She passed on the other side of the flowers, and George heard
her say to someone just inside the room:

"Robert, the carriage has come!"

A pause; then a thick voice said, in an emphatic undertone:

"Damn the carriage!--go away!"

"But, Robert, you know we promised to look in at Lady Tuam's on the way home."

The thick voice dropped a note lower.

"Damn Lady Tuam! I shall come when it suits me."

Lady Cathedine fell back, and George saw her cross the landing, and drop into a chair beside
an old general, who was snoozing in a peaceful corner till his daughters should see fit to
take him home. The old general took no notice of her, and she sat there, playing with her fan,
her rather prominent grey eyes staring out of her white face.

Both George and his friend, as it happened, had heard the conversation. The friend raised his
eyebrows in disgust.

"What a brute that fellow is! They have been married four months. However, she was amply warned."

"Who was she?"

"The daughter of old Wickens, the banker. He married her for her money, and lives upon it religiously.
By now, I should think, he has dragged her through every torture that marriage admits of."

"So soon?" said George, drily.

"Well," said the friend, laughing, "no doubt it admits of a great many."

"I am ready to go home," said a voice at Tressady's elbow.

Something in the intonation surprised him, and he turned quickly.

"By all means," he said, throwing an astonished look at his wife, who had come up to him on
Lord Cathedine's arm. "I will go and look for the carriage."

What was the matter, he asked himself as he ran downstairs--what was the meaning of Letty's
manner and expression?

But by the time he had sent for the carriage the answer had suggested itself. No doubt Harding
Watton had given Letty news of that hansom in Pall Mall, and no doubt, also--He shrugged his
shoulders in annoyance. The notion of having to explain and excuse himself was particularly
unpalatable. What a fool he had been not to tell Letty of his East End adventure on their way
to Queen's Gate.

He was standing in a little crowd at the foot of the stairs when Letty swept past him in search
of her wraps. He smiled at her, but she held her head erect as though she did not see him.

So there was to be a scene. George felt the rise of a certain inner excitement. Perhaps it
was as well. There were a good many things he wanted to say.

At the same time, the Cathedine episode had filled him with a new disgust for the violences
and brutalities to which the very intimacy of the marriage relation may lead. If a scene there
was to be, he meant to be more or less frank, and at the same time to keep both himself and
her within bounds.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You can't deny that you made a secret of it from me," cried Letty, angrily. "I asked you what
had been doing in the House, and you never let me suspect that you had been anywhere else the
whole evening."

"I daresay," said George, quietly. "But I never meant to make any mystery. Something you said
about Lady Maxwell put me off telling you--then. I thought I would wait till we got home."

They were in George's study--the usual back-room on the ground-floor, which George could not
find time to make comfortable, while Letty had never turned her attention to it. Tressady was
leaning against the mantelpiece. He had turned up a solitary electric light, and in the cold
glare of it Letty was sitting opposite to him, angrily upright. The ugly light had effaced
the half-tones of the face and deepened the lines of it, while it had taken all the grace from
her extravagant dress and tumbled flowers. She seemed to have lost her prettiness.

"Something I said about Lady Maxwell?" she repeated scornfully. "Why shouldn't I say what I
like about Lady Maxwell? What does she matter either to you or to me that I should not laugh
at her if I please? Everybody laughs at her."

"I don't think so," said Tressady, quietly. "I have seen her to-night in a curious and touching
scene--in a meeting of very poor people. She tried to make a speech, by the way, and spoke
badly. She did not carry the meeting with her, and towards the end it got noisy. As we came
out she was struck with a stone, and I got a hansom for her, and drove her home to St. James's
Square. We were just turning into the Square when Harding saw us. I happened to be with her
in the crowd when the stone hit her. What do you suppose I could do but bring her home?"

"Why did you go? and why didn't you tell me at once?"

"Why did I go?" Tressady hesitated, then looked down upon his wife. "Well!--I suppose I went
because Lady Maxwell is very interesting to watch--because she is sympathetic and generous,
and it stirs one's mind to talk to her."

"Not at all!" cried Letty, passionately. "You went because she is handsome--because she is
just a superior kind of flirt. She is always making women anxious about their husbands under
this pretence of politics. Heaps of women hate her, and are afraid of her."

She was very white, and could hardly save herself from the tears of excitement. Yet what was
working in her was not so much Harding Watton's story as this new and strange manner of her
husband's. She had sat haughtily silent in the carriage on their way home, fully expecting
him to question her--to explain, entreat, excuse himself, as he had generally been ready to
do whenever she chose to make a quarrel. But he, too, said nothing, and she could not make
up her mind how to begin. Then, as soon as they were shut into his room her anger had broken
out, and he had not yet begun to caress and appease her. Her surprise had brought with it a
kind of shock. What was the matter? Why was she not mistress as usual?

As she made her remark about Marcella, Tressady smiled a little, and played with a cigarette
he had taken up.

"Whom do you mean?" he asked her. "One often hears these things said of her in the vague, and
never with any details. I myself don't believe it. Harding, of course, believes anything to
her disadvantage."

Letty hesitated; then, remembering all she could of Harding's ill-natured gossip, she flung
out some names, exaggerating and inventing freely. The emphasis with which she spoke reddened
all the small face again--made it hot and common.

Tressady raised his shoulders as she came to the end of her tirade.

"Well, you know I don't believe all that--and I don't think Harding believes it. Lady Maxwell,
as you once said yourself, is not, I suppose, a woman's woman. She gets on better, no doubt,
with men than with women. These men you speak of are all personal and party friends. They support
Maxwell, and they like her. But if anybody is jealous, I should think they might remember that
there is safety in numbers."

"Oh, that's all very well! But she wants power, and she doesn't care a rap how she gets it.
She is a dangerous, intriguing woman--and she just trades upon her beauty!"

Tressady, who had been leaning with his face averted from her, turned round with sparkling eyes.

"You foolish child!" he said slowly--"you foolish child!"

Her lips twitched. She put out a shaking hand to her cloak, that had fallen from her arms.

"Oh! very well. I sha'n't stay here to be talked to like that, so good-night."

He took no notice. He walked up to her and put his hands on her shoulders.

"Don't you know what it is"--he spoke with a curious imperiousness--"that protects any woman--or
any man either for the matter of that--from Marcella Maxwell's beauty? Don't you know that
she adores her husband?"

"That's a pose, of course, like everything else," cried Letty, trying to move herself away;
"you once said it was."

"Before I knew her. It's not a pose--it's the secret of her whole life."

He walked back to the mantelpiece, conscious of a sudden rise of inward bitterness.

"Well, I shall go to bed," said Letty, again half rising. "You might, I think, have had the
kindness and the good taste to say you were sorry I should have the humiliation of finding
out where my husband spends his evenings, from Harding Watton!"

Tressady was stung.

"When have I ever concealed what I did from you?" he asked her hotly.

Letty, who was standing stiff and scornful, tossed her head without speaking.

"That means," said Tressady after a pause, "that you don't take my word for it--that you suspect
me of deceiving you before to-night?"

Letty still said nothing. His eyes flashed. Then a pang of conscience smote him. He took up
his cigarette again with a laugh.

"I think we are both a pair of babies," he said, as he pretended to look for matches. "You
know very well that you don't really think I tell you mean lies. And let me assure you, my
dear child, that fate did not mean Lady Maxwell to have lovers--and that she never will have
them. But when that's said there's something else to say."

He went up to her again, and touched her arm.

"You and I couldn't have this kind of scene, Letty, could we, if everything was all right?"

Her breast rose and fell hurriedly.

"Oh! I supposed you would want to retaliate--to complain on your side!"

"Yes," he said deliberately, "I think I do want to complain. Why is it that--I began to like
going down to see Lady Maxwell--why did I like talking to her at Castle Luton? Well! of course
it's pleasant to be with a beautiful person--I don't deny that in the least. But she might
have been as beautiful as an angel, and I mightn't have cared twopence about her. She has something
much less common than beauty. It's very simple, too--I suppose it's only sympathy--just that.
Everybody feels the same. When you talk to her she seems to care about it; she throws her mind
into yours. And there's a charm about it--there's no doubt of that."

He had begun his little speech meaning to be perfectly frank and honest--to appeal to her better
nature and his own. But something stopped him abruptly, perhaps the sudden perception that
he was after playing the hypocrite--perhaps the consciousness that he was only making matters
worse.

"It's a pity you didn't say all these things before," she said, with a hard laugh, "instead
of denouncing the political woman, as you used to do."

He sat down on the arm of the chair beside her, balancing lightly, with his hands in his pockets.

"Did I denounce the political woman? Well, the Lord knows I'm not in love with her now! It
isn't politics, my dear, that are attaching--it's the kind of human being. Ah! well, don't
let's talk of it. Let's go back to that point of sympathy. There's more in it than I used to
think. Suppose, for instance, you were to try and take a little more interest in my political
work than you do? Suppose you were to try and see money matters from my point of view, instead
of driving us"--he paused a moment, then went on coolly, lifting his thin, long-chinned face
to her as she stood quivering beside him--"driving us into expenses that will, sooner or later,
be the ruin of us--that rob us, too, of self-respect. Suppose you were to take a little more
account, also, of my taste in people? I am afraid I don't like Harding, though he is your cousin,
and I don't certainly see why he should furnish our drawing-rooms and empty our purse for us
as he has been doing. Then, as to Lord Cathedine, I'm really not over-particular, but when
I hear that fellow's in the house, my impulse is to catch the nearest hansom and drive away
from it. I heard him speak to his wife to-night in a way for which he ought to be kicked down
Oxford Street--and, in general, I should say that it takes the shine off a person to be much
seen with Cathedine."

The calm attitude--the voice, just a shade interrogative, exasperated Letty still more. She,
too, sat down, her cheeks flaming.

"I am extremely obliged to you! You really couldn't have been more frank. I am sorry that nothing
I do pleases you. You must be quite sorry by now you married me--but really I didn't force
you! Why should I give up my friends? You know very well you won't give up Lady Maxwell."

She looked at him keenly, her little foot beating the ground. George started.

"But what is there to give up?" he cried. "Come and see her yourself--come with me, and make
friends with her. You would be quite welcome."

But as he spoke he knew that he was talking absurdly, and that Letty had reason for her laugh.

"Thank you! Lady Maxwell made it quite plain to me at Castle Luton that she didn't want my
acquaintance. I certainly sha'n't force myself upon her any more. But if you'll give up going
to see her--well, perhaps I'll see what can be done to meet your wishes; though, of course,
I think all you say about Harding and Lord Cathedine is just unreasonable prejudice!"

George was silent. His mind was torn between the pricks of a conscience that told him Letty
had in truth, as far as he was concerned, a far more real grievance than she imagined, and
a passionate intellectual contempt for the person who could even distantly imagine that Marcella
Maxwell belonged to the same category as other women, and was to be won by the same arts as
they. At last he broke out impatiently:

"I cannot possibly show discourtesy to one who has been nothing but kindness to me, as she
is to scores of others--to old friends like Edward Watton, or new ones like--"

"She wants your vote, of course!" threw in Letty, with an excited laugh. "Either she is a flirt--or
she wants your vote. Why should she take so much notice of you? She isn't your side--she wants
to get hold of you--and it makes you ridiculous. People just laugh at you and her!" She turned
upon him passionately. A little more, and the wish to say the wounding, venomous thing would
have grown like a madness upon her. But George kept his self-possession.

"Well, they may laugh," he said, with a strong effort to speak good-humouredly. "But politics
aren't managed like that, as you and they will find out. Votes are not so simple as they sound."

He got up and walked away from her as he spoke. As usual, his mood was beginning to cool. He
saw no way out. They must both accept the status quo. No radical change was possible. It is
character that makes circumstance, and character is inexorable.

"Well, of course I didn't altogether believe that you would really be such a fool, and wreck
all your prospects!" said Letty, violently, her feverish eyes intent the while on her husband
and on the thin fingers once more busied with the cigarette. "There now! I think we have had
enough of this! It doesn't seem to have led to much, does it?"

"No," said George, coolly; "but perhaps we shall come to see more alike in time. I don't want
to tyrannise--only to show you what I think. Shall I carry up your cloak for you?"

He approached her punctiliously. Letty gathered her wraps upon her arm in a disdainful silence,
warding him off with a gesture. As he opened the door for her she turned upon him:

"You talk of my extravagance, but you never seem to consider what you might do to make up to
me for the burden of being your mother's relation! You expect me to put up with the annoyance
and ridicule of belonging to her--and to let her spend all your money besides. I give you fair
warning that I sha'n't do it! I shall try and spend it on my side, that she sha'n't get it."

She was perfectly conscious that she was behaving like a vixenish child, but she could not
restrain herself. This strange new sense that she could neither bend nor conquer him was becoming
more than she could bear.

George looked at her, half inclined to shake her first, and then insist on making friends.
He was conscious that he could probably assert himself with success if he tried. But the impulse
failed him. He merely said, without any apparent temper, "Then I shall have to see if I can
invent some way of protecting both myself and you."

She flung through the door, and almost ran through the long passage to the stairs, in a sobbing
excitement. A sudden thought struck George as he stood looking after her. He pursued her, caught
her at the foot of the stairs, and held her arm strongly.

"Letty! I wasn't to tell you, but I choose to break my promise. Don't be too cruel, my dear,
or too angry. My mother is dying!"

She scanned him deliberately, the flushed face--the signs of strongly felt yet strongly suppressed
emotion. The momentary consciousness flew through her that he was at bottom a very human, impressionable
creature--that if she could but have broken down and thrown herself on his neck, this miserable
evening might open for both of them a new way. But her white-heat of passion was too strong.
She pushed him away.

"She made you believe that this morning? Then I'd better hurry up at Ferth; for of course it
only means that there will be a fresh list of debts directly!"

He let her go, and she heard him walk quickly back to his study and shut the door. She stared
after him triumphantly for a moment, then rushed upstairs.

In her room her maid was waiting for her. Grier's sallow face and gloomy eyes showed considerable
annoyance at being kept up so late. But she said nothing, and Letty, who in general was only
too ready to admit the woman to a vulgar familiarity, for once held her tongue. Her state of
excitement and exhaustion, however, was evident, and Grier bestowed many furtive, examining
glances upon her mistress in the course of the undressing. She thought she had heard "them"
quarrelling on the stairs. What a pity she had been too tired and cross to listen!

Of course they must come to quarrelling! Grier's sympathies were tolerably impartial. She had
no affection for her mistress, and she cordially disliked Sir George, knowing perfectly well
that he thought ill of her. But she had a good place, and meant to keep it if she could. To
which end she had done her best to strengthen a mean hold on Letty. Now, as she was brushing
out Letty's brown hair, and silently putting two and two together the while, an idea occurred
to her which pleased her.

After Grier had left her, Letty could not make up her mind to go to bed. She was still pacing
up and down the room in her dressing-gown, when she heard a knock--Grier's knock.

"Come in!"

"Please, my lady," said Grier, appearing with something in her hand, "doesn't this belong to
your photograph box? I found it on the floor in Sir George's dressing-room this morning."

Letty hastily took it from her, and, in spite of an instant effort to control herself, the
red flushed again into a cheek that had been very pale when Grier came in.

"Where did you find it?"

"It had tumbled off Sir George's table, I think," said Grier, with elaborate innocence; "someone
must have took it out of your photo-box."

"Thank you," said Letty, shortly. "You may go, Grier."

The maid went, and Letty was left standing with the photograph in her hands.

Two days before Tressady had been in Edward Watton's room in St. James's Street, and had seen
this amateur photograph of Marcella Maxwell and her boy on Watton's table. The poetic charm
of it had struck him so forcibly that he had calmly put it in his pocket, telling the protesting
owner that he in his role of great friend could easily procure another, and must beware of
a grudging spirit. Watton had laughed and submitted, and Tressady had carried off the picture,
honestly meaning to present it to Letty for a collection of contemporary "beauties" she had
just begun to make.

Later in the day, as he was taking off his coat in the evening to dress for dinner, Tressady
drew out the photograph. A sudden instinct, which he himself could hardly have explained, made
him delay handing it over to Letty. He thrust it into the top tray of his collar-and-shirt
wardrobe. Two days later the butler, coming in a hurry before breakfast to put out his master's
clothes, shook the photograph out of the folds of the shirt, where it had hidden itself, without
noticing what he had done. The picture slipped between the wardrobe and the wall of the recess
in which it stood, was discovered later in the day by the housemaid, and given to Lady Tressady's
maid.

Letty laid the photograph down on the dressing-table, and stood leaning upon her hands, looking
at it. Marcella was sitting under one of the cedars of Maxwell Court with her boy beside her.
A fine corner of the old house made a background, and the photographer had so dealt with his
picture as to make it a whole, full of significance, and culminating in the two faces--the
sensitive, speaking beauty of the mother, the sturdy strength of the child. Marcella had never
looked more wistful, more attaching. It was the expression of a woman at rest, in the golden
moment of her life, yet conscious--as all happiness is conscious--of the common human doom
that nothing escapes. Meanwhile the fine, lightly furrowed brow above the eyes spoke action
and power; so did the strong waves of black hair blown back by the breeze. A noble, strenuous
creature, yet quivering through and through with the simplest, most human instincts. So one
must needs read her, as one looked from the eyes to the eager clasp of the arm about the boy.

Letty studied it, as though she would pierce and stab it with looking. Then, with a sudden
wild movement, she took up the picture, and tore it into twenty pieces. The pieces she left
strewn on the floor, so that they must necessarily strike the eye of anyone coming into the
room. And in a few more minutes she was in bed, lying still and wakeful, with her face turned
away from the door.

About an hour afterwards there was a gentle knock at her door. She made no answer, and Tressady
came in. He stepped softly, thinking she was asleep, and presently she heard him stop, with
a stifled exclamation. She made no sound, but from his movement she guessed that he was picking
up the litter on the floor. Then she heard it thrown into the basket under her writing-table,
and she waited, holding her breath.

Tressady walked to a far window, drew a curtain back softly, and stood looking out at the starlight
over the deserted street. Once, finding him so still, she ventured a hasty glance at him over
the edge of the sheet. But she could see nothing. And after a time he turned and came to his
accustomed place beside her. In twenty minutes at latest, she knew, much to her chagrin, that
he was asleep.

She herself had no sleep. She was stung to wakefulness by that recurrent sense of the irrevocable
which makes us say to ourselves in wonder, "How can it have happened? Two hours ago--such a
little while--it had not happened!" And the mind clutches at the bygone hour, so near, so eternally
distant--clutches at its ghost, in vain.

Yet it seemed to her now that she had been jealous from the first moment when she and George
had come into contact with Marcella Maxwell. During the long hours of this night her jealousy
burnt through her like a hot pain--jealousy, mixed with reluctant memory. Half consciously
she had always assumed that it had been a piece of kindness on her part to marry George Tressady
at all. She had almost condescended to him. After all, she had played with ambitions so much
higher! At any rate, she had taken for granted that he would always admire and be grateful
to her--that in return for her pretty self she might at least dispose of him and his as she
pleased.

And now, what galled her intolerably was this discernment of the way in which--at least since
their honeymoon--he must have been criticising and judging her--judging her by comparison with
another woman. She seemed to see at a glance, the whole process of his mind, and her vanity
writhed under it.

How much else than vanity? As she turned restlessly from side to side, possessed by plans for
punishing George, for humiliating Lady Maxwell, and avenging herself, she said to herself that
she did not care,--that it was not worth caring about,--that she would either bring George
to his senses, or manage to amuse herself without him.

But in reality she was held tortured and struggling all the time in the first grip of that
masterful hold wherewith the potter lifts his clay when he lays it on the eternal whirring
of the wheel.

CHAPTER XVI

The newspapers of the morning following these events--that is to say, of Saturday, July 5--gave
very lively accounts of the East End meeting, at which, as some put it, Lady Maxwell "had got
her answer" from the East End mob. The stone-throwing, the blow, the woman, and the cause were
widely discussed that same day throughout the clubs and drawing-rooms of Mayfair and Belgravia,
no less than among the clubs and "publics" of the East End; and the guests at country-house
parties as they hurried out of town for the Sunday, carried the gossip of the matter far and
wide. The Maxwells went down alone to Brookshire, and the curious visitors who called in St.
James's Square "to inquire" came away with nothing to report.

"A put-up thing, the whole business," said Mrs. Watton, indignantly, to her son Harding, as
she handed him the "Observer," on the Sunday morning, in the dining-room of the family house
in Tilney Street. "Of course, a little martyrdom just now suits her book excellently. How that
man can let her make him a laughing-stock in this way--"

"A laughing-stock?" said Harding, smiling. "Not at all. Don't spoil your first remark, mother.
For, of course, it is all practical politics. The handsomest woman in England doesn't give
her temple to be gashed for nothing. You will see what her friends will make out of it!--and
out of the brutal violence of our mob."

"Disgusting!" said Mrs. Watton, playing severely with the lid of the mustard-pot that stood
beside her.

She and Harding were enjoying a late breakfast tete-a-tete. The old Squire had finished long
before, and was already doing his duty with a volume of sermons in the library upstairs, preparatory
to going to church. Mrs. Watton and Harding, however, would accompany him thither presently;
for Harding was a great supporter of the Establishment.

The son raised his shoulders at his mother's adjective.

"What I want to know," he said, "is whether Lady Maxwell is going to bag George Tressady, or
not. He brought her home from the meeting on Friday."

"Brought her home from the meeting?--George Tressady?"

Mrs. Watton raised her masculine head and frowned at her son, as though he were, in some sense,
personally responsible for this unseemly fact.

"He has been haunting her in the East End for weeks. I got that out of Edward. But, of course,
one knew that was going to happen as soon as one saw them together at Castle Luton. She throws
her flies cleverly, that woman!"

"All I can say is," observed Mrs. Watton, ponderously, "that in any decent state of society
such a woman would be banned!"

Harding rose, and stood by the open window caressing his moustache. It was a perception of
long standing with him, that life would have been better worth living had his mother possessed
a sense of humour.

"It seems to me," his mother resumed after a pause, "that someone at least should give Letty
a hint."

"Oh! Letty can take care of herself," said Watton, laughing. He might have said, if he had
thought it worth while, that somebody had already given Letty a hint. Tressady, it appeared,
disliked him. Well, people that disliked you were fair game. However, in spite of Tressady's
dislike, he had been able to amuse himself a good deal with Letty and Letty's furnishing during
the last few months. Harding, who prided himself on the finest of tastes, liked to be consulted;
he liked anything, also, that gave him importance, if it were only with the master of a curiosity
shop, and, under cover of Letty's large dealings, he had carried off various spoils of his
own for his rooms in the Temple--spoils which were not to be despised--at a very moderate price
indeed.

"Who could have thought George Tressady would turn out such a weak creature," said his mother,
rising, "when one remembers how Lord Fontenoy believed in him?"

"And does still believe in him, more or less," said Harding; "but Fontenoy will have to be warned."

He looked at the clock, to see if there was time for a cigarette before church, lit it, and,
leaning against the window, gazed towards the hazy park with a meditative air.

"Do you mean there is any question of his ratting?" said his mother.

Harding raised his eyebrows.

"Well, no--hardly anything so gross as that. But you can see all the spirit has gone out of
him. He does no work for us. The party gets nothing out of him."

Harding spoke as if he had the party in his pocket. His mother looked at him with a severely
concealed admiration. There were few limits to her belief in Harding. But it was not her habit
to flatter her sons.

"What makes one so mad," she said, as she sailed towards the door in a stiff rustle of Sunday
brocade, "is the way in which the people who admire her talk of her. When one thinks that all
this 'slumming,' and all this stuff about the poor, only means keeping her husband in office
and surrounding herself with a court of young men, it turns one sick!"

"My dear mother, we keep all our little hypocrisies," said Harding, indulgently. "Don't forget
that Lady Maxwell provides me with a deal of good copy."

And after his mother had left him he smoked on, thinking with pleasure of an article of his
on "The Woman of the Slums," packed with allusions to Marcella Maxwell, which was to appear
in the next number of the "Haymarket Reporter," the paper that he and Fontenoy were now running.
Harding was not the editor. He disliked drudgery and office-hours; and his father was good
for enough to live upon. But he was a powerful adviser in the conduct of the new journal, and
wrote, perhaps, the smartest articles.

The paper, indeed, was written by the smartest people conceivable, and had achieved the smartest
combinations. "Liberty" was its catchword; but the employer must be absolute. To care or think
about religion was absurd; but whoso threw a stone at the Established Church, let him die the
death. Christianity must be steadily, even ferociously supported; in the policing of an unruly
world it was indispensable. But the perennial butt of the paper was the fool who "went about
doing good." The young men who lived in "settlements," for instance, and gave University Extension
Lectures--the paper pursued all such with a hungry malice, only less biting than that wherewith
day by day it attacked Lord Maxwell, the arch offender of all the philanthropic tribe. To help
a man who had toiled his ten or twelve hours in the workshop or the mine to read Homer or Dante
in the evening,--well! in the language of Hedda Gabler "people don't do these things,"--not
people with any sense of the humorous or the seemly. Harding and his crew had required a good
deal of help in their time towards the reading of those authors; that, however, was only their
due, and in the order of the universe. The same universe had sent the miner below to dig coals
for his betters, while Harding Watton went to college.

But the last and worst demerit in the eyes of Harding and his set was that old primitive offence
that Cain already found so hard to bear. Half the violence which the new paper had been lavishing
on Maxwell--apart from passionate conviction of the Fontenoy type, which also spoke through
it--sprang from this source. Maxwell, in spite of his obvious drawbacks, threatened to succeed,
to be accepted, to take a large place in English political life. And his wife, too, reigned,
and had her way without the help of clever young men who write. There was the sting. Harding
at any rate found it intolerable.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, in spite of newspapers to right of it and newspapers to left of it, the political
coach clattered on.

The following day--Monday--was a day of early arrivals, packed benches, and much excitement
in the House of Commons; for the division on the second reading was to be taken after the Home
Secretary's reply on the debate. Dowson was expected to get up about ten o'clock, and it was
thought that the division would be over by eleven.

On this afternoon and evening Fontenoy was ubiquitous. At least so it seemed to Tressady. Whenever
one put one's head into the Smoking-room or the Library, whenever one passed through the Lobby,
or rushed on to the Terrace for ten minutes' fresh air, Fontenoy's great brow and rugged face
were always to be seen, and always in fresh company.

The heterogeneous character of the Opposition with which the Government was confronted, the
conflicting groups and interests into which it was split up, offered large scope for the intriguing,
contriving genius of the man. And he was spending it lavishly. The small eyes were more invisible,
the circles round them more saucer-like than ever.

Meanwhile George Tressady had never been so keenly conscious as on this critical afternoon
that his party had begun to drop him out of its reckonings. Consultations that would once have
included him as a matter of course were going on without him. During the whole of this busy
day Fontenoy even had hardly spoken to him; the battle was leaving him on one side.

Well, what room for bitterness?--though, with the unreason that no man escapes, he was not
without bitterness. He had disappointed them as a debater--and, in other ways, what had he
done for them since Whitsuntide? No doubt also the mention of his name in the reports of the
Mile End meeting had not been without its effect. He believed that Fontenoy's personal regard
for him still held. Otherwise, he was beginning to feel himself placed in a tacit isolation.

What wonder, good Lord! During the dinner-hour he found himself in a corner of the library,
dreaming over a biography of Lord Melbourne. Poor Melbourne! in those last tragic years of
waiting and pining, every day expecting the proffer of office that never came and the familiar
recognition that would be his no more. But Melbourne was old, and had had his day.

"I wanted to speak to you," said a hoarse voice, over his shoulder.

"Say on, and sit down," said George, smiling, and pushing forward a chair beside him. "I should
think you'll want a week's sleep after this."

"Have you got some time to spare this week," said Fontenoy, abruptly, as he sat down.

George hesitated.

"Well, no. I ought to go down to the country immediately, and see after my own affairs and
the strike, before Committee begins. There is a meeting of coal-owners on Wednesday."

"What I want wouldn't take long," said Fontenoy, persistently, after a pause. "I hear you have
been going round workshops lately?"

His keen, peremptory eyes fixed his companion.

"I had a round or two with Everard," said George. "We saw a fair representative lot."

The thought that flashed through Fontenoy's mind was, "Why the deuce didn't you speak of it
to me?" Aloud, he said with impatience:

"Representing what Everard chose to show, I should think. However, what I want is this. You
know the series of extracts from reports that has been going on lately in the 'Chronicle.'"

George nodded.

"We want something done to correct the impression that has been made. You and I know perfectly
well that the vast majority of workshops work factory-hours and an average of four and a half
days a week. You have just had personal experience, and you can write. Will you do three or
four signed articles for the 'Reporter' this week or next? Of course the office will give you
every help."

George considered.

"I think not," he said presently, looking up. "I shouldn't do it well. Perhaps I have become
too conscious of the exceptions--the worst cases. Frankly, the whole thing has become more
of a problem to me than it was."

Fontenoy moved, and grunted uneasily.

"Does that mean," he said at last, in his harshest manner, "that you will feel any difficulty
in--?"

"In voting? No. I shall vote right enough. I am all for delay. This particular Bill doesn't
convince me any more than it did. But I don't want to take a strong public part just at present."

The two men eyed each other in silence.

"I thought there was something brewing," said Fontenoy at last.

"Well, I'm not sorry to have had these few words," was George's reply, after a pause. "I wanted
to tell you that, though I shall vote, I don't think I shall speak much more. I don't believe
I'm the stuff people in Parliament ought to be made of. I shall be remorseful presently for
having led you into a mistake!" He forced a smile.

"I made no mistake," said Fontenoy, grimly, and departed. Then, as he walked down the corridor,
he completed his sentence--"except in not seeing that you were the kind of man to be made a
fool of by women!"

First of all, a hasty marriage with a silly girl who could be no help to him or to the cause;
now, according to Watton--who had called upon Fontenoy that morning, at his private house,
to discuss various matters of business--the Lady-Maxwell fever in a pronounced form. Most likely.
It was the best explanation.

The leader's own sense of annoyance and disappointment was considerable. There was no man for
whom he had felt so much personal liking as for Tressady since the fight began.

Somewhere before midnight the division on the second reading was taken, amid all those accompaniments
of crowd, expectation, and commotion, that are usually evoked by the critical points of a contested
measure. The majority for Government was forty-four--less by twenty-four votes than its normal
figure.

As the cheers and counter-cheers subsided, George found himself borne into the Lobby with the
crowd pouring out of the House. As he approached the door leading to the outer lobby, a lady
in front of him turned. George received a lightning impression of beauty, of a kind of anxious
joy, and recognised Marcella Maxwell.

She held out her hand.

"Well, the first stage is over!" she said.

"Yes, and well over," he said, smiling. "But you have shed a great many men already."

"Oh! I know--I know. The next few weeks will be intolerable; one will feel sure of nobody."
Then her voice changed--took a certain shyness. "A good many people from here are coming down
to us at Mile End during the next few weeks--will you come some time, and bring Lady Tressady?"

"Thank you," said George, rather formally. "It is very kind of you." Then, in another voice:
"And you are really none the worse?"

His eyes sought the injured temple, and she instinctively put up her hand to the black wave
of hair that had been drawn forward so as to conceal the mark.

"Oh no! That boy was not an expert, luckily. How absurd the papers have been!"

George shook his head.

"I don't know what else one could expect," he said, laughing.

"Not at all!"--the flush mounted in the delicate hollow of the cheek. "Why should there be
any more fuss about a woman's being struck than a man? We don't want any of this extra pity
and talk."

"Human nature, I am afraid," said George, raising his shoulders. Did she really suppose that
women could mix in the political fight on the same terms as men--could excite no more emotion
there than men? Folly!

Then Maxwell, who was standing behind her, came forward, greeted Tressady kindly, and they
talked for a few minutes about the evening's debate. The keen look of the elder scanned the
younger's face and manner the while with some minuteness. As for George, his dialogue with
the Minister, at which more than one passer-by threw looks of interest and amusement, gave
him no particular pleasure. Maxwell's qualities were not of the kind that specially appealed
to him; nor was he likely to attract Maxwell. Nevertheless, he could have wished their ten
minutes' talk to last interminably, merely because of the excuse it gave him to be near her!--played
upon by her movements and her tones. He talked to Maxwell of speeches, and votes, and little
incidents of the day. And all the time he knew how she was surrounded; how the crowd that was
always gathering about her came and went; with whom she talked; above all, how that eager,
sensitive charm which she had shown in its fulness to him--perhaps to him only, beside her
husband, of all this throng--played through her look, her voice, her congratulations, and her
dismays. For had he not seen her in distress and confusion--seen her in tears, wrestling with
herself? His heart caressed the thought like a sacred thing, all the time that he was conscious
of her as the centre of this political throng--the adored, detested, famous woman, typical
in so many ways of changing custom and of an expanding world.

Then, in a flash, as it were, the crowd had thinned, the Maxwells had gone, and George was
running down the steps of the members' entrance, into the rain outside. He seemed to carry
with him the scent of a rose,--the rose she had worn on her breast,--and his mind was tormented
with the question he had already asked himself: "How is it going to end?"

He pushed on through the wet streets, lost in a hundred miseries and exaltations. The sensation
was that of a man struggling with a rising tide, carried helplessly in the rush and swirl of
it. Yet conscience had very little to say, and, when it did speak, got little but contempt
for its pains. What had any clumsy code, social or moral, to do with it? When would Marcella
Maxwell, by word or look or thought, betray the man she loved?

How he found his way home he hardly knew; for it was a moment of blind crisis with him. All
that crowded, dramatic scene of the House--its lights, its faces, its combinations--had vanished
from his mind. What remained was a group of three people, contemplated in a kind of terror--terror
of what this thing might grow to! Once, in St. James's Street, the late hour, the soft, gusty
night, suddenly reminded him of that other gusty night in February when he had walked home
after his parting with Letty, so well content with himself and the future, and had spoken to
Marcella Maxwell for the first time amid that little crowd in the Mall. Nothing had been irreparable
then. He had his life in his hands.

As for this passion, that was creeping into all his veins, poisoning and crippling all his
vitalities, he was still independent enough of it to be able to handle it with the irony it
deserved. For it was almost as ludicrous as it was pitiable. He did not want any man of the
world, any Harding Watton, to tell him that.

What amazed him was the revelation of his own nature that was coming out of it. He had always
been rather proud to think of himself as an easygoing fellow with no particular depths. Other
men were proud of a "storm period"--of feasting and drinking deep--made a pose of it. Tressady's
pose had been the very opposite. Out of a kind of good taste, he had wished to take life lightly,
with no great emotion. And marriage with Letty had seemed to satisfy this particular canon.

Now, for the first time, certain veils were drawn aside, and he knew what this hunger for love,
and love's response, can do with a man--could do with him, were it allowed its scope!

Had Marcella Maxwell been another woman, less innocent, less secure!

As it was, Tressady no sooner dared to give a sensuous thought to her beauty than his own passion
smote him back--bade him beware lest he should be no longer fit to speak and talk with her,
actually or spiritually. For in this hopeless dearth of all the ordinary rewards and encouragements
of love he had begun to cultivate a sort of second, or spiritual, life, in which she reigned.
Whenever he was alone he walked with her, consulted her, watched her dear eyes, and the soul
playing through them. And so long as he could maintain this dream he was conscious of a sort
of dignity, of reconciliation with himself; for the passions and tragedies of the soul always
carry with them this dignity, as Dante, of all mortals, knew first and best.

But with the turn into Upper Brook Street, the dream suddenly and painfully gave way. He saw
his own house, and could forget Letty and the problem of his married life no more. What was
he going to do with her and it? What relation was he going to establish with his wife, through
all these years that stretched so interminably before them? Remorse mingled with the question.
But perhaps impatience, still more--impatience of his own misery, of this maze of emotion in
which he felt himself entangled, as it were against his will.

During the three days which had passed since his quarrel with Letty, their common life had
been such a mere confusion of jars and discomforts that George's hedonist temper was almost
at the end of its patience; yet so far, he thought, he had not done badly in the way of forbearance.
After the first moment of angry disgust, he had said to himself that the tearing up of the
photograph was a jealous freak, which Letty had a right to if it pleased her. At any rate,
he had made no comment whatever upon it, and had done his best to resume his normal manner
with her the next day. She had been, apparently, only the more enraged; and, although there
had been no open quarrelling since, her cutting, contemptuous little airs had been very hard
to bear. Nor was it possible for George to ignore her exasperated determination to have her
own way in the matter both of friends and expenses.

As he took his latch-key out of the lock, and turned up the electric light, he saw two handsome
marqueterie chairs standing in the hall. He went to look at them in some perplexity. Ah! no
doubt they had been sent as specimens. Letty had grown dissatisfied with the chairs originally
bought for the dining-room. He remembered to have heard her say something about a costly set
at a certain Asher's, that Harding had found.

He studied them for a few moments, his mouth tightening. Then, instead of going upstairs, he
went into his study, and sat down to his table to write a letter.

Yes--he had better go off to Staffordshire by the early train; and this letter, which he would
put upon her writing-desk in the drawing-room, should explain him to Letty.

The letter was long and candid, yet by no means without tenderness. "I have written to Asher,"
it said, "to direct him to send in the morning for the chairs I found in the hall. They are
too expensive for us, and I have told him that I will not buy them, I need not say that in
writing to him I have avoided every word that could be annoying to you. If you would only trust
me, and consult me a little about such things,--trifles as they be,--life just now would be
easier than it is."

Then he passed to a very frank statement of their financial position, and of his own steady
resolve not to allow himself to drift into hopeless debt. The words were clear and sharp, but
not more so than the course of the preceding six weeks made absolutely necessary. And their
very sharpness led him to much repentant kindness at the end. No doubt she was disappointed
both in him and in his circumstances; and, certainly, differences had developed between them
that they had never foreseen at the time of their engagement. But to "make a good thing" of
living together was never easy. He asked her not to despair, not to judge him hardly. He would
do his best--let her only give him back her confidence and affection.

He closed the letter, and then paced restlessly about the little room for a time. It seemed
to him that he was caught in a vice--that neither happiness, nor decent daily comfort, nor
even the satisfactions of ambition, were ever to be his.

Next day he was off to Euston before Letty was properly awake. She found his letter waiting
for her when she descended, and spent the day in a pale excitement. Yet by the end of it she
had pretty well made up her mind. She would have to give in on the money question. George's
figures and her natural shrewdness convinced her that the ultimate results of fighting him
in this matter could only be more uncomfortable for herself than for him. But as to her freedom
in choosing her own friends, or as to her jealousy of Lady Maxwell, she would never give in.
If George had ceased to court his wife, then he could have nothing to say if she looked for
the amusement and admiration that were her due from other people. There was no harm in that.
Everybody else did it; and she was not going to be pretty and young for nothing. Whereupon
she sat down and wrote a line to Lord Cathedine to tell him that she and "Tully" would be at
the Opera on the following night, and to beg him to make sure that she got her "cards for Clarence
House." Moreover, she meant to make use of him to procure her a card for a very smart ball,
the last of the season, which was coming off in a fortnight. That could be arranged, no doubt,
at the Opera.

       *       *       *       *       *

George returned from the North in a few days looking, if possible, thinner and more careworn
than when he went. He had found the strike a very stubborn business. Burrows was riding the
storm triumphantly; and while upon his own side Tressady looked in vain for a "man," there
was a dogged determination to win among the masters. George's pugnacity shared it fully. But
he was beginning to ask himself a number of questions about these labour disputes which, apparently,
his co-employers did not ask themselves. Was it that here, no less than in matters that concerned
the Bill before Parliament, her influence, helped by the power of an expanding mind, had developed
in him that fatal capacity for sympathy, for the double-seeing of compromise, which takes from
a man all the joy of battle.

Letty, at any rate, was not troubled by anything of the sort. When he came back he found that
she was ready to be on fairly amicable terms with him. Moreover, she had postponed the more
expensive improvements and changes she had begun to make at Perth against his will; nor was
there any sign of the various new purchases for the London house with which she had threatened
him. On the other hand, she ceased to consult him about her own engagements; and she let him
know, though without any words on the subject, that she had entirely broken with his mother--would
neither see her nor receive her. As her attitude on this point involved--or, apparently, must
involve--a refusal to accept her husband's statement made solemnly under strong emotion, George's
pride took it in absolute silence. No doubt it was her revenge upon him for their crippled
income--and for Lady Maxwell.

The effect of her behaviour on this point was to increase his own pity for his mother. He told
her frankly that Letty could not get over the inroads upon their income and the shortening
of their resources produced by the Shapetsky debt, just at a time when they should have been
able to spend, and were already hampered by the state of the coal trade. It would be better
that she and Letty should not meet for a time. He would do his best to make it up.

Lady Tressady took his news with a curious equanimity.

"Well, she always hated me!" she said--"I don't exactly know why--and was a little jealous
of my gowns, too, I think. Don't mind, George. I must say it out. You know, she doesn't really
dress very well--Letty doesn't. Though, my goodness, the bills! Wait till you see them before
you call me extravagant. You should make her go to that new woman--what do they call her? She's
a darling, and such a style! Never mind about Letty; you needn't bother. I daresay she isn't
very nice to you about it. But if you don't come and see me, I shall cut my throat, and leave
a note on the dressing-table. It would spoil your career dreadfully, so you'd better take care."

But, indeed, George came, without any pressing, almost every day. He saw her in her bursts
of gaiety and affectation, when the habits of a lifetime asserted themselves as strongly as
ever; and he saw her in her moments of pain and collapse, when she could hide the omens of
inexorable physical ill neither from herself nor him. By the doctor's advice, he ceased to
press her to give in, to resign herself to bed and invalidism. It was best, even physically,
to let her struggle on. And he was both astonished and touched by her pluck. She had never
been so repellent to him as on those many occasions in the past when she had feigned illness
to get her way. Now that Death was really knocking, the half-gay, half-frightened defiance
with which she walked the palace of life, one moment listening to the sounds at the gate, the
next throwing herself passionately into the revelry within, revealed to the son a new fact
about her--a fact of poetry unutterably welcome.

Even her fawning dependents, the Fullertons, ceased to annoy him. They were poor parasites,
but she thought for them, and they professed to love her in return. She had emptied her life
of finer things, but this relation of patron and flatterer, such as it was, did something to
fill the vacancy; and George made no further effort to disturb it.

It was surprising, indeed, how easily, as the weeks went on, he came to bear many of those
ways of hers which had once set him most on edge--even her absurd outbursts of affection towards
him, and preposterous praise of him in public. In time he submitted even to being flown at
and kissed before the Fullertons. Amazing into what new relations that simple perspective of
the end will throw all the stuff of life!

       *       *       *       *       *

In Parliament the weeks rushed by. The first and comparatively non-contentious sections of
the Bill passed with a good deal of talk and delay. George spoke once or twice, without expecting
to speak, instinctively pleasing Fontenoy where he could. They had now but little direct intercourse.
But George did not feel that his leader had become his enemy, and was not slow to recognise
a magnanimity he had not foreseen. Yet, after all, he had not offered the worst affront to
party discipline. Fontenoy could still count on his vote. As to the rest of his party, he saw
that he was to be finally reckoned as a "crank," and let alone. It was not, he found, altogether
to be regretted. The position gave him a new freedom of speech.

Meanwhile he and Marcella Maxwell rarely met. Week after week passed, and still Tressady avoided
those gatherings at the Mile End house, of which he heard full accounts from Edward Watton.
He once formally asked Letty if she would go with him to one of Lady Maxwell's East End "evenings,"
and she, with equal formality, refused. But he did not take advantage of her refusal to go
himself. Was it fear of his own weakness, or compunction towards Letty, or the mere dread of
being betrayed into something at once ridiculous and irreparable?

At the same time, it was surprising how often during these weeks he had occasion to pass through
St. James's Square. Once or twice he saw her go out or come in, and sometimes was near enough
to catch the sudden smile and look which surely must be the smile and look she gave her friends,
and not to every passing stranger! Once or twice, also, he met her for a few minutes in the
Lobby, or on the Terrace, but always in a crowd. She never repeated her invitation. He divined
that she was, perhaps, vexed with herself for having seemed to press the point on the night
of the second reading.

       *       *       *       *       *

July drew to an end. The famous "workshop clause" had been debated for nearly ten days, the
whole country, as it were, joining in. One evening in the last week of the month Naseby and
Lady Madeleine were sitting together in a corner of a vast drawing-room in Carlton House Terrace.
The drawing-room was Mrs. Allison's. She had returned about a fortnight before from Bad Wildheim,
and was now making an effort, for the boy's sake, to see some society. As she moved about the
room in her black silk and lace she was more gentle, but in a sense more inaccessible, than
ever. She talked with everyone, but her eyes followed her son's auburn head, with its strange
upstanding tufts of hair above the fair, freckled face; or they watched the door, even when
she was most animated. She looked ill and thin, and the many friends who loved her would have
gladly clung about her and cherished her. But it was not easy to cherish Mrs. Allison.

"Do you see how our hostess keeps a watch for Fontenoy?" said Naseby, in a low voice, to Lady
Madeleine.

Madeleine turned her startled face to him. Nature had given her this hunted look--the slightly
open mouth, the wide eyes of one who perpetually hears or expects bad news. Naseby did not
like it, and had tried to laugh her out of her scared ways before this. But he had no sooner
laughed at her than he found himself busy--to use Watton's word--in "stroking" and making it
up to her, so tender and clinging was the girl's whole nature, so golden was her hair, so white
her skin!

"Isn't it the division news she is expecting?"

"Yes--but don't look so unhappy! She will bear up--even if they are beaten. And they will be
beaten. Fontenoy's hopes have been going down. The Government will get through this clause
at all events--by a shave."

"What a fuss everybody is making about this Bill!"

"Well, you don't root up whole industries without a fuss. But, certainly, Maxwell has roused
the country finely."

"She will break down if it goes on," said Lady Madeleine, in a melancholy voice.

Naseby laughed.

"Not at all! Lady Maxwell was made for war--she thrives on it. Don't you, too, enjoy it?"

"I don't know," said the girl, drearily. "I don't know what I was made for."

And over her feather fan her wide eyes travelled to the distant ogress figure of her mother,
sitting majestical in black wig and diamonds beside the Russian Ambassador. Naseby's also travelled
thither--unwillingly. It was a disagreeable fact that Lady Kent had begun to be very amiable
to him of late.

Lady Madeleine's remark made him silent a moment. Then he looked at her oddly.

"I am going to offend you," he said deliberately. "I am going to tell you that you were made
to wear white satin and pearls, and to look as you look this evening."

The girl flushed hotly.

"I knew you despised women," she said, in a strained voice, staring back at him reproachfully.
During her months of distress and humiliation she had found her only comfort in "movements"
and "causes"--in the moral aspirations generally--so far as her mother would allow her to have
anything to do with them. She had tried, for instance, to work with Marcella Maxwell--to understand
her.

But Naseby held his ground.

"Do I despise women because I think they make the grace and poetry of the world?" he asked
her. "And, mind you, I don't draw any lines. Let them be county councillors and guardians,
and inspectors, and queens as much as they like. I'm very docile. I vote for them. I do as
I'm told."

"Only, you don't think that I can do anything useful!"

"I don't think you're cut out for a 'platform woman,' if that's what you mean," he said, laughing--"even
Lady Maxwell isn't. And if she was, she wouldn't count. The women who matter just now--and
you women are getting a terrible amount of influence--more than you've had any time this half
century--are the women who sit at home in their drawing-rooms, wear beautiful gowns, and attract
the men who are governing the country to come and see them."

"Lady Maxwell doesn't sit at home and wear beautiful gowns!"

"I vow she does!" said Naseby, with spirit. "I can vouch for it. I was caught that way myself.
Not that I belong to the men who are governing the country. And now she has roped me to her
chariot for good and all. Ah, Ancoats! how do you do?"

He got up to make room for the master of the house as he spoke. But as he walked away he said
to himself, with a kind of delight: "Good! she didn't turn a hair."

Lady Madeleine, indeed, received her former suitor with a cool dignity that might have seemed
impossible to anyone so plaintively pretty. He lingered beside her, twirling his carefully
pointed moustache, that matched the small Richelieu chin, and looking at her with a furtive
closeness from time to time.

"Well--so you have just come back from Paris?" she said indifferently.

"Yes; I stayed a day or two after my mother. One didn't want to come back to this dull hole."

"Did you see the new piece at the Francais?"

He made a face.

"Not I! One couldn't be caught by such vieux jeu as that! There was a splendid woman in one
of the cafes chantants--but I suppose you don't go to cafes chantants?"

"No," said Madeleine, eyeing him over her fan with a composure that astonished herself. "No,
I don't go to cafes chantants."

Ancoats looked blank a moment, then resumed, with fervour:

"This woman's divine--epatant! Then, at the Chat Noir--but--ah! well, perhaps you don't go
to the Chat Noir?"

"No, I don't go to the Chat Noir."

He fidgeted for a minute. She sat silent. Then he said:

"There are some new French pictures in the next room. Will you come and see them?"

"Thank you, I think I'll stay here," she said coldly.

He lingered another second or two, then departed. The girl drew a long breath, then instinctively
turned her white neck to see if Naseby had really left her. Strange! he too, from far away,
was looking round. In another moment he was making his way slowly back to her.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Ah, there's Tressady! Now for news."

The remark was Naseby's. He and Lady Madeleine were, as it happened, inspecting the very French
pictures that the girl had just refused to look at in Ancoats's company.

But now they hurried back to the main drawing-room where the Tressadys were already surrounded
by an eager crowd.

"Eighteen majority," Tressady was saying. "The Socialists saved it at the last moment, after
growling and threatening till nobody knew what was going to happen. Forty Ministerialists walked
out, twenty more, at least, were away unpaired, and the Old Liberals voted against the Government
to a man."

"Oh! they'll go--they'll go on the next clause," said an elderly peer, whose ruddy face glowed
with delight. "Serve them right, too! Maxwell's whole aim is revolution made easy. The most
dangerous man we have had for years! Looks so precious moderate, too, all the time. Tell me
how did Slade vote after all?"

And Tressady found himself buttonholed by one person after another; pressed for the events
and incidents of the evening: how this person had voted, how that; how Ministers had taken
it; whether, after this Pyrrhic victory there was any chance of the Bill's withdrawal, or at
least of some radical modification in the coming clauses. Almost everyone in the crowded room
belonged, directly or indirectly, to the governing political class. Barely three people among
them could have given a coherent account of the Bill itself. But to their fathers and brothers
and cousins would belong the passing or the destroying of it. And in this country there is
no game that amuses so large a number of intelligent people as the political game.

"I don't know why he should look so d--d excited over it," said Lord Cathedine to Naseby in
a contemptuous aside, with a motion of the head towards Tressady, showing pale and tall above
the crowd. "He seems to have voted straight this time, but he's as shaky as he can be. You
never know what that kind of fellow will be up to. Ah, my lady! and how are you?"

He made a low bow, and Naseby, turning, saw young Lady Tressady advancing.

"Are you, too, talking politics?" said Letty, with affected disgust, giving her hand to Cathedine
and a smile to Naseby.

"We will now talk of nothing but your scarlet gown," said Cathedine in her ear. "Amazing!"

"You like it?" she said, with nonchalant self-possession. "It makes me look dreadfully wicked,
I know." And she threw a complacent glance at a mirror near, which showed her a gleam of white
shoulders in a setting of flame-coloured tulle.

"Well, you wouldn't wish to look good," said Cathedine, pulling his black moustache. "Any fool
can do that!"

"You cynic!" she said, laughing. "Come and talk to me over there. Have you got me my invitations?"

Cathedine followed, a disagreeable smile on his full lips, and they settled themselves in a
corner out of the press. Nor were they disturbed by the sudden hush and parting of the crowd
when, five minutes later, amid a general joyous excitement, Fontenoy walked in.

Mrs. Allison forgot her usual dignity, and hurried to meet the leader as he came up to her,
with his usual flushed and haggard air.

"Magnificent!" she said tremulously. "Now you are going to win!"

He shook his head, and would hardly let himself be congratulated by any of the admirers, men
or women, who pressed to shake hands with him. To most of them he said, impatiently, that it
was no good hallooing till one was out of the wood, that for his own part he had expected more,
and that the Government might very well rally on the next clause. Then, when he had effectively
chilled the enthusiasm of the room, he drew his hostess aside.

"Well, and are you happier?" he said to her in a low voice, his whole expression changing.

"Oh, dear friend! don't think of me," she said, putting out a thin hand to him with a grateful
gesture. "Yes, the boy has been very good--he gives me a great deal of his time. But how can
one know--how can one possibly know?"

Her pale, small face contracted with a look of pain. Fontenoy, too, frowned as he looked across
at Ancoats, who was leaning against the wall in an affected pose, and quoting bits from a new
play to George Tressady.

After a pause, he said:

"I think if I were you I should cultivate Tressady. Ancoats likes him. It might be possible
some time for you to work through him."

The mother assented eagerly, then said, with a smile:

"But I gather you don't find him much to be depended on in the House?"

Fontenoy shrugged his shoulders.

"Lady Maxwell has bedevilled him somehow. You're responsible!"

"Poor Castle Luton! You must tell me how it and I can make up. But you don't mean that there
is any thought of his going over?"

"His vote's all safe--I suppose. He would make too great a fool of himself if he failed us
there. But he has lost all heart for the business. And Harding Watton tells me it's all her
doing. She has been taking him about in the East End--getting her friends to show him round."

"And now you are in the mood to put the women down--to show them their place?"

She looked at him with gentle humour--a very delicate high-bred figure, in her characteristic
black-and-white. Fontenoy's whole aspect changed as he caught the reference to their own relation.
The look of premature old age, of harsh fatigue, was for the moment effaced by something young
and ardent as he bent towards her.

"No--I take the rough with the smooth. Lady Maxwell may do her worst. We have the counter-charm."

A flush showed itself in her lined cheek. She was fourteen years older than he, and had refused
a dozen times to marry him. But she would have found it hard to live without his devotion,
and she had brought him by now into such good order that she dared to let him know it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Half an hour later George and Letty mounted another palatial staircase, and at the top of it
Letty put on fresh smiles for a new hostess. George, tired out with the drama of the day, could
hardly stifle his yawns; but Letty had treated the notion of going home after one party when,
they might, if they pleased, "do" four, with indignant amazement.

So here they were at the house of one of the greatest of bankers, and George stalked through
the rooms in his wife's train, taking comparatively little part in the political buzz all about
him, and thinking mostly of a hurried little talk with Mrs. Allison that had taken up his last
few minutes in her drawing-room. Poor thing! But what could he do for her? The lad was as stage-struck
as ever--could barely talk sense on any other subject, and not much on that.

But if he, owing to the clash of an inner struggle, was weary of politics, the world in general
could think and speak of nothing else. The rooms were full of politicians and their wives,
of members just arrived from the House, of Ministers smiling at each other with lifted eyebrows,
like boys escaped from a birching. A tempest of talk surged through the rooms--talk concerned
with all manner of great issues, with the fate of a Government, the rousing of a country, the
fortunes of individual statesmen. Through it all the little host himself, a small fair-haired
man, with the tired eyes and hot-house air of the financier, walked about from group to group,
gossiping over the incidents of the division, and now and then taking up some newcomer to be
introduced to his pretty and fashionable wife.

Somewhere in the din George stumbled across Lady Leven, who was talking merrily to young Bayle;
and found her, notwithstanding, very ready to turn and chat with him.

"Of course we are all waiting for the Maxwells," she said to him. "Will they come, I wonder?"

"Why not?"

"Do people show on their way to disaster? I think I should stay at home if I were she."

"Why, they have to hearten their friends!"

"No good," said Betty, pursing her pretty lips; "and they have fought so hard."

"And may win yet," said George, an odd sparkle in his eye, as he stood looking over his tiny
companion to the door. "Nobody is sure of anything, I can tell you."

"I don't believe you care," she said audaciously, shaking her golden head at him.

"Pray, why?"

"Oh! you don't seem at all desperate," she said coolly. "Perhaps you're like Frank--you think
the other side make so much better points than you do. 'If Dowson makes another speech,' Frank
said to me yesterday, 'I vow I shall rat!' There's a way of talking of your own chiefs. Oh!
I shall have to take him out of politics."

And she unfurled her fan with a jerk half melancholy, half decided. Then, suddenly, a laugh
flashed over her face; she raised herself eagerly on tiptoe.

"Ah! bravo!" she said. "Here they are!"

George turned with the crowd, and saw them enter, Marcella first, in a blaze of diamonds; then
the quiet face and square shoulders of her husband.

Nothing, he thought, could have been better than the manner in which both bore themselves as
they passed through the throng, answering the greetings of friend and foe, and followed by
the keen or hostile scrutiny of hundreds. There was no bravado, no attempt to disguise the
despondency that must naturally follow on a division so threatening and in many ways so wounding.
Maxwell looked grey with fatigue and short nights, while her black eyes passed wistfully from
friend to friend, and had never been more quick, more responsive. Their cause was in danger;
nevertheless, the impression on Tressady's mind was of two people consciously in the grip of
forces infinitely greater than they--forces that would hold on their path whatever befell their
insignificant mortal agents.

I steadier step when I recall, Howe'er I slip, thou canst not fall.

So cries the thinker to his mistress, Truth. And in the temper of that cry lies the secret
of brave living. One looker-on, at least,--and that an opponent,--recalled the words as he
watched Marcella and her husband taking their way through the London crowd, amid the doubts
of their friends and the half-concealed triumph of their foes.

It seemed to him that he could have no chance of speech with her. But presently, from the other
side of the room, he saw that she had recognised and was greeting him, and, do what he would,
he must needs make his way to her.

She welcomed him with great friendliness, and without a word of small reproach on the score
of the weeks he had let pass without coming to see her. They fell into talk about the speeches
of the evening. George thought he could see that she, or Maxwell speaking through her, was
dissatisfied with Dowson's conduct of the Bill in the House, and chafing under the constitutional
practice that made it necessary to give him so large a share in the matter. But she said nothing
ungenerous; nor was there any bitterness towards the many false friends who had deserted them
that night in the division-lobby. She spoke with eager hope of a series of speeches Maxwell
was about to make in the North, and then she turned upon her companion.

"You haven't spoken since the second reading--on any of the fighting points, at least. I have
been wondering what you thought of many things."

George threw his head back against the wall beside her, and was silent a moment. At last he
said, looking down upon her:

"Perhaps, very often I haven't known what to think."

She started--reddened ever so little. "Does that mean"--she hesitated for a phrase--"that you
have moved at all on the main question?"

"No," he said deliberately--"no! I think as I always did, that you are calling in law to do
what law can't do. But perhaps I appreciate better than I once did what provokes you to it.
It seems to me difficult now to meet the case your side is putting forward by a mere non possumus.
One wants to stop the machine a bit and think it out. So much I admit."

She met his smile with a curious, tremulous look. Instinctively he guessed that this partial
triumph in him of her cause--of Maxwell's cause--had let flow some inner font of feeling.

"If you only knew," she said, "how all this Parliamentary rush and clatter seem to me beside
the mark. People talk to me of divisions and votes. I think all the time of persons I know--of
faces of children--sick-beds, horrible rooms--"

She had turned her face from the crowd towards the open window, in whose recess they were standing.
As she spoke they both fell back a little into comparative solitude, and he drew her on to
talk--trying in a young eager way to make her rest in his kindness, to soothe her weariness
and disappointment. And as she spoke, he clutched at the minutes; he threw more and more sympathy
at her feet to keep her talking, to enchain her there beside him, in her lovely whiteness and
grace. And, mingled with it all, was the happy guess that she liked to linger with him--that
amid all this hard clamour of public talk and judgment she felt him a friend in a peculiar
sense--a friend whose loyalty grew with misfortune. As for this wild-beast world, that was
thwarting and libelling her, he began to think of it with a blind, up-swelling rage--a desire
to fight and win for her--to put down--

"Tressady, your wife sent me to find you. She wishes to go home."

The voice was Harding Watton's. That observant young man advanced bowing, and holding out his
hand to Lady Maxwell.

When Marcella had drifted once more into the fast-melting crowd, George found himself face
to face with Letty. She was very white, and stared at him with wide, passionate eyes.

And on the way home George, with all his efforts, could not keep the peace. Letty flung at
him a number of bitter and insulting things that he found very hard to bear.

"What do you want me to do?" he said to her at last, impatiently. "I have hardly spoken six
sentences to Lady Maxwell, since the meeting, till tonight--I suppose because you wished it.
But neither you nor anyone else shall make me rude to her. Don't be such a fool, Letty! Make
friends with her, and you will be ashamed of saying or even thinking such things."

Whereat Letty burst into hysterical tears, and he soon found himself involved in all the remorseful,
inconsequent speeches to which a man in such a plight feels himself driven. She allowed herself
to be calmed, and they had a dreary making-up. When it was over, however, George was left with
the uneasy conviction that he knew very little of his wife. She was not of a nature to let
any slight to her go unpunished. What was she planning? What would she do?

CHAPTER XVII

"Hullo! Are you come back?"

The speaker was George Tressady. He was descending the steps of his club in Fall Mall, and
found his arm caught by Naseby, who had just dismissed his hansom outside.

"I came back last night. Are you going homewards? I'll walk across the Square with you."

The two men turned into St. James's Square, and Naseby resumed:

"Yes, we had a most lively campaign. Maxwell spoke better than I ever heard him."

"The speeches have been excellent reading, too. And you had good meetings?"

"Splendid! The country is rallying, I can tell you. The North is now strong for Maxwell and
the Bill--or seems to be."

"Just as we are going to kick it out in the House! It's very queer--for no one could tell,
a month ago, how the big towns were going. And it looked as though London even were deserting
them."

"A mere wave, I think. At least, I'll bet you anything they'll win this Stepney election. Shall
we get the division on the hours clause to-morrow?"

"They say so."

"If you know your own interests, you'll hurry up," said Naseby, smiling. "The country is going
against you."

"I imagine Fontenoy has got his eye on the country! He's been letting the Socialists talk nonsense
till now to frighten the steady-going old fellows on the other side or putting up our men to
mark time. But I saw yesterday there was a change."

"Between ourselves, hasn't he been talking a good deal of nonsense on his own account?"

Naseby threw a glance of laughing inquiry at his companion. George shrugged his shoulders in
silence. It had become matter of public remark during the last few days that Fontenoy was beginning
at last to show the strain of the combat--that his speeches were growing hysterical and his
rule a tyranny. His most trusted followers were now to be heard grumbling in private over certain
aspects of his bearing in the House. He had come into damaging collision with the Speaker on
one or two occasions, and had made here and there a blunder in tactics which seemed to show
a weakening of self-command. Tressady, indeed, knew enough to wonder that the man's nerve and
coolness had maintained themselves in their fulness so long.

"So Maxwell took a party to the North?" said George, dropping the subject of Fontenoy.

"Lady Maxwell, of course--myself, Bennett, and Madeleine Penley. It was a pleasure to see Lady
Maxwell. She has been dreadfully depressed in town lately. But those trade-union meetings in
Lancashire and Yorkshire were magnificent enough to cheer anyone up."

George shook his head.

"I expect they come too late to save the Bill."

"I daresay. Well, one can't help being tremendously sorry for her. I thought her looking quite
thin and ill over it. It makes one doubt about women in politics! Maxwell will take it a deal
more calmly, unless one misunderstands his cool ways. But I shouldn't wonder if she had a breakdown."

George made no reply. Naseby talked a little more about Maxwell and the tour, the critical
side of him gaining upon the sympathetic with every sentence. At the corner of King Street
he stopped.

"I must go back to the club. By the way, have you heard anything of Ancoats lately?"

George made a face.

"I saw him in a hansom last night, late, crossing Regent Circus with a young woman--the young
woman, to the best of my belief."

In the few moments' chat that followed Tressady found that Naseby, like Fontenoy, regarded
him as the new friend who might be able to do something for a wild fellow, now that mother
and old friends were alike put aside and ignored. But, as he rather impatiently declared--and
was glad to declare--such a view was mere nonsense. He had tried, for the mother's sake, and
could do nothing. As for him, he believed the thing was very much a piece of blague--

"Which won't prevent it from taking him to the devil," said Naseby, coolly; "and his mother,
by all accounts, will die of it. I'm sorry for her. He seems to think tremendous things of
you. I thought you might, perhaps, have knocked it out of him." George shook his head again,
and they parted.

In truth, Tressady was not particularly flattered by Ancoats's fancy for him. He did not care
enough about the lad in return. Yet, in response to one or two outbreaks of talk on Ancoats's
part--talks full of a stagey railing at convention--he had tried, for the mother's sake, to
lecture the boy a little--to get in a word or two that might strike home. But Ancoats had merely
stared a moment out of his greenish eyes, had shaken his queer mane of hair, as an animal shakes
off the hand that curbs it, had changed the subject at once, and departed. Tressady had seen
very little of him since.

And had not, in truth, taken it to heart. He had neither time nor mind to think about Ancoats.
Now, as he walked home to dinner, he put the subject from him impatiently. His own moral predicament
absorbed him--this weird, silent way in which the whole political scene was changing in aspect
and composition under his eyes, was grouping itself for him round one figure--one face.

Had he any beliefs left about the Bill itself? He hardly knew. In truth it was not his reason
that was leading him. It now was little more than a passionate boyish longing to wrench himself
free from this odious task of hurting and defeating Marcella Maxwell. The long process of political
argument was perhaps tending every day to the loosening and detaching of those easy convictions
of a young Chauvinism, that had drawn him originally to Fontenoy's side. Intellectually he
was all adrift. At the same time he confessed to himself, with perfect frankness, that he could
and would have served Fontenoy happily enough, but for another influence--another voice.

Yet his old loyalty to Fontenoy tugged sorely at his will. And with this loyalty of course
was bound up the whole question of his own personal honour and fidelity--his pledges to his
constituents and his party.

Was there no rational and legitimate way out? He pondered the political situation as he walked
along with great coolness and precision. When the division on the hours clause was over the
main struggle on the Bill, as he had all along maintained, would be also at an end. If the
Government carried the clause--and the probability still was that they would carry it by a
handful of votes--the two great novelties of the Bill would have been affirmed by the House.
The homework in the scheduled trades would have been driven by law into inspected workshops,
and the male workers in these same trades would have been brought under the time-restrictions
of the Factory Acts.

Compared to these two great reforms, or revolutions, the remaining clause--the landlords clause--touched,
as he had already said to Fontenoy, questions of secondary rank, of mere machinery. Might not
a man thereupon--might not he, George Tressady--review and reconsider his whole position?

He had told Fontenoy that his vote was safe; but must that pledge extend to more than the vital
stuff, the main proposals of the Bill? The hours clause?--yes. But after it?

Fontenoy, no doubt, would carry on the fight to the bitter end, counting on a final and hard-wrung
victory. The sanguine confidence which had possessed him about the time of the second reading
was gone. He did not, Tressady knew, reckon with any certainty on turning out the Government
in this coming division. The miserable majority with which they had carried the workshops clause
would fall again--it would hardly be altogether effaced. That final wiping-out would come--if
indeed it were attained--in the last contest of all, to which Fontenoy was already heartening
and urging on his followers.

Fontenoy's position, of course, in the matter was clear. It was that of the leader and the
irreconcilable.

But for the private member, who had seen cause to modify some of his opinions during the course
of debate, who had voted loyally with his party up till now--might not the division on the
hours clause be said to mark a new stage in the Bill--a stage which restored him his freedom?

The House would have pronounced on the main points of the Bill; the country was rallying in
a remarkable and unexpected way to the Government--might it not be fairly argued that the war
had been carried far enough?

He already, indeed, saw signs of that backing down of opposition which he had prophesied to
Fontenoy. The key to the whole matter lay, he believed, in the hands of the Old Liberals, that
remnant of a once great host, who were now charging the Conservative Government with new and
damaging concessions to the Socialist tyranny. These men kept a watchful eye on the country;
they had maintained all along that the country had not spoken. George had already perceived
a certain weakening among them. And now, this campaign of Maxwell's, this new enthusiasm in
the industrial North--no doubt they would have their effect.

He hurried on, closely weighing the whole matter, the prey to a strange and mingled excitement.

Meanwhile the streets through which he walked had the empty, listless air which marks a stage
from which the actors have departed. It was nearing the middle of August, and society had fled.

All the same, as he reflected with a relief which was not without its sting, he and Letty would
not be alone at dinner. Some political friends were coming, stranded, like themselves, in this
West End, which had by now covered up its furniture and shut its shutters.

What a number of smart invitations had been showering upon them during the last weeks of the
season, and were now still pursuing them, for the country-house autumn! The expansion of their
social circle had of late often filled George with astonishment. No doubt, he said to himself,--though
with a curious doubtfulness,--Letty was very successful; still, the recent rush of attentions
from big people, who had taken no notice of them on their marriage, was rather puzzling. It
had affected her so far more than himself. For he had been hard pressed by Parliament and the
strike, and she had gone about a good deal alone--appearing, indeed, to prefer it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Come out with me on the Terrace," said Marcella to Betty Leven; "I had rather not wait here.
Aldous, will you take us through?"

She and Betty were standing in the inner lobby of the House of Commons. The division had just
been called and the galleries cleared. Members were still crowding into the House from the
Library, the Terrace, and the smoking-rooms; and all the approaches to the Chamber itself were
filled with a throng about equally divided between the eagerness of victory and the anxieties
of defeat.

Maxwell took the ladies to the Terrace, and left them there, while he himself went back to
the House. Marcella took a seat by the parapet, leant both hands upon it, and looked absently
at the river and the clouds. It was a cloudy August night, with a broken, fleecy sky, and gusts
of hot wind from the river. A few figures and groups were moving about the Terrace in the flickering
light and shade--waiting like themselves.

"Will you be very sad if it goes wrongly?" said Betty, in a low voice, as she took her friend's
hand in hers.

"Yes--" said Marcella, simply. Then, after a pause, she added, "It will be all the harder after
this time in the North. Everything will have come too late."

There was a silence; then Betty said, not without sheepishness, "Frank's all right."

Marcella smiled. She knew that little Betty had been much troubled by Frank's tempers of late,
and had been haunted by some quite serious qualms about his loyalty to Maxwell and the Bill.
Marcella had never shared them. Frank Leven had not grit enough to make a scandal and desert
a chief. But Betty's ambition had forced the boy into a life that was not his; had divided
him from the streams and fields, from the country gentleman's duties and pleasures, that were
his natural sphere. In this hot town game of politics, this contest of brains and ambitions,
he was out of place--was, in fact, wasting both time and capacity. Betty would have to give
way, or the comedy of a lovers' quarrel might grow to something ill-matched with the young
grace and mirth of such a pair of handsome children.

Marcella meant to tell her friend all this in due time. Now she could only wait in silence,
listening for every sound, Betty's soft fingers clasping her own, the wind as it blew from
the bridge cooling her hot brow.

"Here they are!" said Betty.

They turned to the open doorway of the House. A rush of feet and voices approached, and the
various groups on the Terrace hurried to meet it.

"Just saved! By George, what a squeak!" said a man's voice in the distance; and at the same
moment Maxwell touched his wife on the shoulder.

"A majority of ten! Nobody knew how it had gone till the last moment."

She put up her face to him, leaning against him.

"I suppose it means we can't pull through?" He bent to her.

"I should think so. Darling, don't take it to heart so much!"

In the darkness he felt the touch of her lips on his hand. Then she turned, with a white cheek
and smiling mouth, to meet the greetings and rueful congratulations of the friends that were
crowding about them.

The Terrace was soon a moving mass of people, eagerly discussing the details of the division.
The lamps, blown a little by the wind, threw uncertain lights on faces and figures, as they
passed and re-passed between the mass of building on the one hand and the wavering darkness
of the river on the other. To Marcella, as she stood talking to person after person--talking
she hardly knew what--the whole scene was a dim bewilderment, whence emerged from time to time
faces or movements of special significance.

Now it was Dowson, the Home Secretary, advancing to greet her, with his grey shaven face, eyelids
somewhat drooped, and the cool, ambiguous look of one not quite certain of his reception. He
had been for long a close ally of Maxwell's. Marcella had thought him a true friend. But certainly,
in his conduct of the Bill of late there had been a good deal to suggest the attitude of a
man determined to secure himself a retreat, and uncertain how far to risk his personal fortunes
on a doubtful issue. So that she found herself talking to him with a new formality, in the
tone of those who have been friends, yet begin to foresee the time when they may be antagonists.

Or, again, it was Fontenoy--Fontenoy's great head and overhanging brows, thrown suddenly into
light against the windy dusk. He was walking with a young viscount whose curls, clothes, and
shoulders were alike unapproachable by the ordinary man. This youth could not forbear an exultant
twitching of the lip as he passed the Maxwells. Fontenoy ceremoniously took off his hat. Marcella
had a momentary impression of the passionate, bull-like force of the man, before he disappeared
into the crowd. His eye had wavered as it met hers. Out of courtesy to the woman he had tried
not to look his triumph.

And now it was quite another face--thin, delicately marked, a noticeable chin, an outstretched
hand.

She was astonished by her own feeling of pleasure.

"Tell me," she said quickly, as she moved eagerly forward--"tell me! is it about what you expected?"

They turned towards the river. George Tressady hung over the wall beside her.

"Yes. I thought it might be anything from eight to twenty."

"I suppose Lord Fontenoy now thinks the end quite certain."

"He may. But the end is not certain!"

"But what can prevent it! The despairing thing for us is, that if the country had been roused
earlier, everything might have been different. But now the House--"

"Has got out of hand? It may be; but I find a great many people affected by Lord Maxwell's
speeches in the North, and his reception there. To-day's result was inevitable, but, if I'm
not mistaken, we shall now see a number of new combinations."

The sensitive face became in a moment all intelligence. She played the politician, and cross-examined
him. He hesitated. What he was doing was already a treachery. But he only hesitated to give
way. They lingered by the wall together, discussing possibilities and persons; and when Maxwell
at last turned from his own conversations to suggest to his wife that it was time to go home,
she came forward with a mien of animation that surprised him. He greeted Tressady with friendliness,
and then, as though a thought had struck him, suddenly drew the young man aside.

"Ancoats, of course," said George to himself; and Ancoats it was.

Maxwell, without preliminaries, and taking his companion's knowledge of the story for granted--no
doubt on Fontenoy's information--said a few words about the renewal of the difficulty. Did
he not think it had all begun again? Yes, George had some reason to think so. "If you can do
anything for us--"

"Of course! but what can I do? As we all know, Ancoats does not sit still to be scolded."

Their colloquy lasted only a minute or two; yet when it was over, and the Maxwells had gone,
George was left with a vivid impression of the great man's quiet strength and magnanimity.
No one could have guessed from his anxious and well-considered talk on this private matter
that he was in the very heat of a political struggle that must affect all his own fortunes.
Tressady had been accustomed to spend his wit on the heavier sides of Maxwell's character.
To-night, he said to himself, half in a passion, grudging the confession, that it was not wonderful
she loved him!

She! The remembrance of how her whole nature had brightened from its cloud as he drew out for
her his own forecast of what might still happen; the sweet confidence and charm that she had
shown him; the intimacy of the tone she had allowed between them; the mingling all through
of a delicate abstinence from anything touching on his own personal position, with an unspoken
recognition of it--the impulse of a generosity that could not help rewarding what seemed to
it the yielding of an adversary; these things filled him with a delicious pleasure as he walked
home. In a hundred directions--political, social, spiritual--the old horizons of the mind seemed
to be lightening and expanding. The cynical, indifferent temper of his youth was breaking down;
the whole man was more intelligent, capable, tender. Yet what sadness and restlessness of soul
as soon as the brief moment of joy had come and gone!

A few afternoons of Supply encroached upon the eight days that still remained before the last
clause of the Bill came to a division. But the whole eight days, nevertheless, were filled
with the new permutations and combinations which Tressady had foreseen. The Government carried
the Stepney election, and in other quarters the effects of the speechmaking in the North began
to be visible. Rumours of the syndicate already formed to take over large numbers of workshops
in both the Jewish and Gentile quarters of the East End, and of the hours and wages that were
likely to obtain in the new factories, were driving a considerable mass of working-class opinion,
which had hitherto held aloof, straight for the Government, and splitting up much of that which
had been purely hostile.

Nevertheless, the situation in the House itself was hardly changing with the change in the
country. The Socialist members very soon developed the proposal to make the landlords responsible
for the carrying-out of the new Act into a furious general attack on the landlords of London.
Their diatribes kept up the terrors which had already cost the Government so many men. It was
not possible, not seemly, to yield, as Maxwell was yielding, all along the line to these fellows!

But the Old Liberals, or the New Whigs, as George had expected, were restless. They felt the
country, and they had no affection for landlords as such. Did a man arise who could give them
a lead, there was no saying how soon they might not break away from the Fontenoy combination.
Fontenoy felt it, and prowled among them like a Satan, urging them to complete their deed,
to give the coup de grace.

On the Wednesday afternoon before the Friday on which he thought the final vote would be taken,
George let himself into his own house about six o'clock, thankful to feel that he had a quiet
evening before him. He had been wandering about the House of Commons and its appurtenances
all day, holding colloquies with this person and that, unable to see his way--to come to any
decision. And, as was now usual, he and Fontenoy had been engaged in steering out of each other's
way as much as possible.

As he went upstairs he noticed a letter lying on the step. He took it up, and found an open
note, which he read, at first without thinking of it:

"My dear Lady,--Chatsworth can't be done. I have thrown my flies with great skill, but--no
go! I don't seem to have influence enough in that quarter. But I have various other plans on
hand. You shall have a jolly autumn, if I can manage it. There are some Scotch invitations
I can certainly get you--and I should like to show you the ways of those parts. By the way,
I hope your husband shoots decently. People are very particular. And you really must consult
me about your gowns--I'm deuced clever at that sort of thing! I shall come to-morrow, when
I have packed off my family to the country. Don't know why God made families!

"Yours always,

"CATHEDINE."

"George! is that you?" cried Letty from above him, in a voice half angry, half hesitating;
"and--and--that's my note. Please give it me at once."

He finished it under her eyes, then handed it to her with formal courtesy. They walked into
the drawing-room, and George shut the door. He was very pale, and Letty quailed a little.

"So Cathedine has been introducing us into society," he said, "and advising you as to your
gowns. Was that--quite necessary--do you think?"

"It's very simple what he has been doing," was her angry reply. "You never take any pains to
make life amusing to me, so I must look elsewhere, if I want society--that's all."

"And it never occurs to you that you are thereby incurring an unseemly obligation to a man
whom I dislike, whom I have warned you against, who bears everywhere an evil name? You think
I am likely to enjoy--to put up with, even--the position of being asked on sufferance--as your
appendage--provided I 'shoot decently'?"

His tone of scorn, his slight figure, imperiously drawn up, sent her a challenge, which she
answered with sullen haste.

"That's all nonsense, of course! And he wouldn't be rude to you if you weren't always rude to him."

"Rude to him!" He smiled. "But now, let us get to the bottom of this thing. Did Cathedine get
us the cards for Clarence House--and that Goodwood invitation?"

Letty made no answer. She stared at him defiantly, twisting and untwisting the ribbons of her
blue dress.

George reddened hotly. His personal pride in matters of social manners was one of his strongest
characteristics.

"Let me beg you, at any rate, to write and tell Lord Cathedine that we will not trouble him
for any more of these kind offices. And, moreover, I shall not go to any of these houses in
the autumn unless I am quite certain he has had nothing to do with it."

"I have accepted," said Letty, breathing hard.

"I cannot help that. You should have been frank with me. I am not going to do what would destroy
my own self-respect."

"No--you prefer making love to Lady Maxwell!"

He looked steadily a moment at her pallor and her furious eyes. Then he said, in another tone:

"Letty, does it ever occur to you that we have not been married yet five months? Are our relations
to each other to go on for ever like this? I think we might make something better of them."

"That's your lookout. But as to these invitations, I have accepted them, and I shall go."

"I don't think you will. You would find it wouldn't do. Anyway, Cathedine must be written to."

"I shall do nothing of the kind!" she cried.

"Then I shall write myself."

She rose, quivering with passion, supporting herself on the arm of her chair.

"If you do, I will find some way of punishing you for it. Oh, if I had never made myself miserable
by marrying you!"

Their eyes met. Then he said:

"I think I had better go and dine at the club. We are hardly fit to be together."

"Go, for heaven's sake!" she said, with a disdainful gesture.

Outside the door he paused a moment, head bent, hands clenched. Then a wild, passionate look
overspread his young face. "It is her evening," he said to himself. "Letty turns me out. I
will go."

Meanwhile Letty stood where he had left her till she had heard the street-door close. The typical,
significant sound knelled to her heart. She began to walk tempestuously up and down, crying
with excitement.

Time passed on. The August evening closed in; and in this deserted London nobody came to see
her. She dined alone, and afterwards spent what seemed to her interminable hours pacing the
drawing-room and meditating. At last there was a pause in the rush of selfish or jealous feeling
which had been pulsing through her for weeks past, dictating all her actions, fevering all
her thoughts. And there is nothing so desolate as such a pause, to such a nature. For it means
reflection; it means putting one's life away from one, and looking at it as a whole. And to
the Lettys of this world there is no process more abhorrent--none they will spend more energy
in escaping.

It was inexplicable, intolerable that she should be so unhappy. What was it that tortured her
so--hatred of Marcella Maxwell, or pain that she had lost her husband? But she had never imagined
herself in love with him when she married him. He had never obtained from her before a tenth
part of the thought she had bestowed upon him during the past six weeks. During all the time
that she had been flirting with Cathedine, and recklessly placing herself in his power by the
favours she asked of him, she saw now, with a kind of amazement, that she had been thinking
constantly of George, determined to impress him with her social success, to force him to admire
her and think much of her.

Cathedine? Had he any real attraction for her? Why, she was afraid of him, she knew him to
be coarse and brutal, even while she played with him and sent him on her errands. When she
compared him with George--even George as she had just seen him in this last odious scene--she
felt the tears of anger and despair rising.

But to be forced to dismiss him at George's word, to submit in this matter of the invitations,
to let herself be trampled on, while George gave all his homage, all his best mind, to Lady
Maxwell--something scorching flew through her veins as she thought of it. Never! never! She
would find, she had already thought of, a startling way of avenging herself.

Late at night George came home. She had locked her door, and he turned into his dressing-room.
When the house was quiet again, she pressed her face into the pillows, and wept till she was
amazed at her own pain, and must needs turn her rage upon herself.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Tressady arrived at the house in Mile End Road he found the pretty, bare room where Marcella
held her gatherings full of guests. The East End had not "gone out of town." The two little
workhouse girls, in the whitest of caps and aprons, were carrying round trays of coffee and
cakes; and beyond the open window was a tiny garden, backed by a huge Board School and some
tall warehouses, yet as pleasant within its own small space as a fountain and flowers, constantly
replenished from Maxwell Court, could make it.

Amid the medley of workmen, union officials, and members of Parliament that the room contained,
George was set first of all to talk to a young schoolmaster or two, but he had never felt so
little able to adjust his mind to strangers. The thought of his home miseries burnt within
him. When could he get his turn with her? He was thirsty for the sound of her voice, the kindness
of her eyes.

She had received him with unusual warmth, and an eagerness of look that seemed to show she
had at least as much to say to him as he to her. And at last his turn came. She took some of
her guests into the garden. George followed, and they found themselves side by side. He noticed
that she was very pale. Yet how was it that fatigue and anxiety instead of marring her physical
charm, only increased it? This thin black dress in which the tall figure moved so finely, the
black lace folded in a fashion all her own about her neck and breast, the waving lines of hair
above the delicate stateliness of the brow--those slight tragic hollows in cheek and temple
with their tale of spirit and passionate feeling, and all the ebb and flow of noble life--he
had never felt her so rare, so adorable.

"Well! what do you think of it all to-day? Are you still inclined to prophesy?" she asked him,
smiling.

"I might be--if I saw any chance of the man you want. But he doesn't seem to be forthcoming, and--"

"And to-morrow is the end!"

"The Government has quite made up its mind not to take defeat--not to accept modifications?"

She shook her head.

They were standing at the end of the garden, looking into the brightly lit windows of the Board
School, where evening-classes were going on. She gave a long sigh.

"As for us personally, we can only be thankful to have it over. Neither of us could have borne
it much longer. I suppose, when the crisis is all over, we shall go away for a long time."

By "the crisis" she meant, of course, the resignation of Ministers and a change of Government.
So that a few days hence she would be no longer within his reach at all. Maxwell, once out
of office, would, no doubt, for a long while to come prefer to spend the greater part of his
time in Brookshire, away from politics. A sudden sharp perception woke in Tressady of what
it would mean to him to find himself in a world where, on going out of a morning, it would
be no longer possible to come across her.

At last she broke the silence.

"How little I really thought, in spite of all one's anxiety, that Lord Fontenoy was going to
win! He has played his cards amazingly well."

George took no notice. Thoughts were whirling in his brain.

"What would you say to me, I wonder," he said at last, "if I were to try the part?"

He spoke in a bantering tone, poking at the black London earth with his stick.

"What part?"

"Well, it seems to me I might put the case. One wants to argue the thing in a common-sense
way. I don't feel towards this clause as I did towards the others. I know a good many men don't."

He turned to her with a light composure.

She stared in bewilderment.

"I don't understand."

"Well; why shouldn't one put the case? We have always counted on the hostility of the country.
But the country seems to be coming round. Some of us now feel the Bill should have its chance--we
are inclined to let Ministers take the responsibility. But, gracious heavens!--to suppose the
House would pay any attention to me!"

He took up a stone and jerked it over the wall. She did not speak for a moment. At last she said:

"It would be a grave thing for you to do."

He turned, and their eyes met, hers full of emotion, and his hesitating and reflective. Then
he laughed, his pride stung a little by her expression.

"You think I should do myself more harm, than good to anybody else?"

"No.--Only it would be serious," she repeated after a pause.

Instantly he dropped the subject as far as his own action was concerned. He led her back into
discussion of other people, and of the situation in general.

Then suddenly, as they talked, a host of thoughts fled cloud-like, rising and melting, through
Marcella's memory. She remembered with what prestige--considering his youth and inexperience--he
had entered Parliament, the impression made by the short and brilliant campaign of his election.
Now, since the real struggle of the session had begun, his energies seemed to have been unaccountably
in abeyance, and eclipse. People she noticed had ceased to talk of him. But supposing, after
all, there had been a crisis of mind and conviction underlying it?--supposing that now, at
the last moment, in a situation that cried out for a leader, something should suddenly release
his powers and gifts to do their proper work--

It vexed her to realise her own excitement, together with an odd shrinking and reluctance that
seemed to be fighting with it. All in a moment, to Tressady's astonishment, she recalled the
conversation to the point where it had turned aside.

"And you think--you really think"--her voice had a nervous appealing note--"that even at this
eleventh hour--No, I don't understand!--I can't understand!--why, or how you should still think
it possible to change things enough!"

He felt a sting of pleasure, and the passing sense of hurt pride was soothed. At least he had
conquered her attention, her curiosity!

"I am sure that anything might still happen," he said stubbornly.

"Well, only let it be settled!" she said, trying to speak lightly, "else there will be nothing
left of some of us."

She raised her hand, and pushed back her hair with a childish gesture of weariness, that was
quite unconscious, and therefore touching.

As she spoke, indeed, the thought of a strong man harassed with overwork, and patiently preparing
to lay down his baffled task, and all his cherished hopes, captured her mind, brought a quick
rush of tears even to her eyes. Tressady looked at her; he saw the moisture in the eyes, the
reddening of the cheek, the effort for self-control.

"Why do you let yourself feel it so much?" he said resentfully; "it is not natural, nor right."

"That's our old quarrel, isn't it?" she answered, smiling.

He was staring at the ground again, poking with his stick.

"There are so many things one must feel," he said in a bitter low voice; "one may as well try
to take politics calmly."

She looked down upon him, understanding, but not knowing how to meet him, how to express herself.
His words and manner were a confession of personal grief,--almost an appeal to her,--the first
he had ever made. Yet how to touch the subject of his marriage! She shrank from it painfully.
What ominous, disagreeable things she had heard lately of the young Lady Tressady from people
she trusted! Why, oh! why had he ruined his own life in such a way!

And with the yearning towards all suffering which was natural to her, there mingled so much
else--inevitable softness and gratitude for that homage towards herself, which had begun to
touch and challenge all the loving, responsive impulse which was at the root of her character--an
eager wish to put out a hand and guide him--all tending to shape in her this new longing to
rouse him to some critical and courageous action, action which should give him at least the
joy that men get from the strenuous use of natural powers, from the realisation of themselves.
And through it all the most divinely selfish blindness to the real truth of the situation!
Yet she tried not to think of Maxwell--she wished to think only of and for her friend.

After his last words they stood side by side in silence for a few moments. But the expression
of her eyes, of her attitude, was all sympathy. He must needs feel that she cared, she understood,
that his life, his pain, his story mattered to her. At last she said, turning her face away
from him, and from the few people who had not yet left the garden to go and listen to some
music that was going on in the drawing-room:

"Sometimes, the best way to forget one's own troubles--don't you think?--is to put something
else first for a time--perhaps in your case, the public life and service. Mightn't it be? Suppose
you thought it all really out, what you have been saying to me--gave yourself up to it--and
then determined. Perhaps afterwards--"

She paused--overcome with doubt, even shyness--and very pale too, as she turned to him again.
But so beautiful! The very perplexity which spoke in the gently quivering face as it met his,
made her lovelier in his eyes. It seemed to strike down some of the barrier between them, to
present her to him as weaker, more approachable.

But after waiting a moment, he gave a little harsh laugh.

"Afterwards, when one has somehow settled other people's affairs, one might see straighter
in one's own? Is that what you mean?"

"I meant," she said, speaking with difficulty, "what I have often found--myself--that it helps
one sometimes, to throw oneself altogether into something outside one's own life, in a large
disinterested way. Afterwards, one comes back to one's own puzzles--with a fresh strength and
hope."

"Hope!" he said despondently, with a quick lifting of the shoulders. Then, in another tone--

"So that's your advice to me--to take this thing seriously--to take myself seriously--to think
it out?"

"Yes, yes," she said eagerly; "don't trifle with it--with what you might think and do--till
it is too late to think and do anything."

Suddenly it flashed across them both how far they had travelled since their first meeting in
the spring. Her mind filled with a kind of dread, an uneasy sense of responsibility--then with
a tremulous consciousness of power. It was as though she felt something fluttering like a bird
in her hands. And all the time there echoed through her memory a voice speaking in a moonlit
garden--"You know--you don't mind my saying it?--nobody is ever converted--politically--nowadays."

No, but there may be honest advance and change--why not? And if she had influenced him--was
it not Maxwell's work and thought that had spoken through her?

"Well, anyway," said Tressady's voice beside her, "whatever happens--you'll believe--"

"That you won't help to give us the coup de grace unless you must?" she said, half laughing,
yet with manifest emotion. "Anyway, I should have believed that."

"And you really care so much?" he asked her again, looking at her wondering.

She suddenly dropped her head upon her hands. They were alone now in the moonlit garden, and
she was leaning over the low wall that divided them from the school enclosure. But before he
could say anything--before he could even move closer to her--she had raised her face again,
and drawn her hand rapidly across her eyes.

"I suppose one is tired and foolish after all these weeks," she said, with a breaking voice--"I
apologise. You see when one comes to see everything through another's eyes--to live in another's
life--" He felt a sudden stab, then a leap of joy--hungry, desolate joy--that she should thus
admit him to the very sanctuary of her heart--let him touch the "very pulse of the machine."
At the same moment that it revealed the eternal gulf between them, it gave him a delicious
passionate sense of intimity--of privilege.

"You have--a marvellous idea of marriage"--he said, under his breath, as he moved slowly beside
her towards the house.

She made no answer. In another minute she was talking to him of indifferent things, and immediately
afterwards he found himself parted from her in the crowd of the drawing-room.

When the party dispersed and he was walking alone towards Aldgate through the night, he could
do nothing but repeat to himself fragments of what she had said to him--lost all the time in
a miserable yearning memory of her eyes and voice.

His mind was made up. And as he lay sleepless and solitary through the night, he scarcely thought
any more of the strait to which his married life had come. Forty-eight hours hence he should
have time for that. For the present he had only to "think out" how it might be possible for
him to turn doubt and turmoil into victory, and lay the crown of it at Marcella Maxwell's feet.

Meanwhile Marcella, on her return to St. James's Square, put her hands on Maxwell's shoulders,
and said to him, in a voice unlike herself: "Sir George Tressady was at the party to-night.
I think he may be going to throw Lord Fontenoy over. Don't be surprised if he speaks in that
sense to-morrow."

Maxwell looked extraordinarily perturbed.

"I hope he will do nothing of the kind," he said, with decision. "It will do him enormous harm.
All the conviction he has ever shown has been the other way. It will be thought to be a mere
piece of caprice and indiscipline."

Marcella said nothing. She walked away from him, her hands clasped behind her, her soft skirt
trailing--a pale muse of meditation--meditation in which for once she did not invite him to share.

"Tressady, by all that's wonderful!" said a member of Fontenoy's party to his neighbour. "What's
he got to say?"

The man addressed bent forward, with his hands on his knees, to look eagerly at the speaker.

"I knew there was something up," he said. "Every time I have come across Tressady to-day he
has been deep with one or other of those fellows"--he jerked his head towards the Liberal benches.
"I saw him buttonholing Green in the Library, then with Speedwell on the Terrace. And just
look at their benches! They're as thick as bees! Yes, by George! there is something up."

His young sportsman's face flushed with excitement, and he tried hard through the intervening
heads to get a glimpse of Fontenoy. But nothing was to be seen of the leader but a hat jammed
down over the eyes, a square chin, and a pair of folded arms.

The House, indeed, throughout the day had worn an aspect which, to the experienced observer--to
the smooth-faced Home Secretary, for instance, watching the progress of this last critical
division--meant that everything was possible, the unexpected above all. Rumours gathered and
died away. Men might be seen talking with unaccustomed comrades; and those who were generally
most frank had become discreet. It was known that Fontenoy's anxiety had been growing rapidly;
and it was noticed that he and the young viscount who acted as the Whip of the party had kept
an extraordinarily sharp watch on all their own men through the dinner-hour.

Fontenoy himself had spoken before dinner, throwing scorn upon the clause, as the ill-conceived
finish of an impossible Bill. So the landlords were to be made the executants, the police,
of this precious Act? Every man who let out a tenement-house in workmen's dwellings was to
be haled before the law and punished if a tailor on his premises did his work at home, if a
widow took in shirtmaking to keep her children. Pass, for the justice or the expediency of
such a law in itself. But who but a madman ever supposed you could get it carried out! What
if the landlords refused or neglected their part? Quis custodiet? And was Parliament going
to make itself ridiculous by setting up a law, which, were it a thousand times desirable, you
simply could not enforce?

The speech was delivered with amazing energy. It abounded in savage epigram and personality;
and a month before it would have had great effect. Every Englishman has an instinctive hatred
of paper reforms.

During the dinner-hour Tressady met Fontenoy in the Lobby, and suddenly stopped to speak. The
young man was deeply flushed and holding himself stiffly erect. "If you want me," he said--"you
will find me in the Library. I don't want to spring anything upon you. You shall know all I know."

"Thank you," said the other with slow bitterness--"but we can look after ourselves. I think
you and I understood each other this morning."

The two men parted abruptly. Tressady walked on, stung and excited afresh by the memory of
the hateful half hour he had spent that morning in Fontenoy's library. For after all, when
once he had come to his decision, he had tried to behave with frankness, with consideration.

Fontenoy hurried on to look for the young viscount with the curls and shoulders, and the two
men stood about the inner lobby together, Fontenoy sombrely watching everybody who came out or in.

It was about ten o'clock when Tressady caught the Speaker's eye. He rose in a crowded House,
a House conscious not only that the division shortly to be taken would decide the fate of a
Government, but vaguely aware, besides, that something else was involved--one of those personal
incidents that may at any moment make the dullest piece of routine dramatic, or rise into history
by the juxtaposition of some great occasion.

The House had not yet made up its opinion about him as a speaker. He had done well; then, not
so well. And, moreover, it was so long since he had taken any part in debate that the House
had had time to forget whatever qualities he might once have shown.

His bearing and voice won him a first point. For youth, well-bred and well-equipped, the English
House of Commons has always shown a peculiar indulgence. Then members began to bend eagerly
forward, to crane necks, to put hands to ears. The Treasury Bench was seen to be listening
as one man.

Before the speech was over many of those present had already recognised in it a political event
of the first order. The speaker had traced with great frankness his own relation to the Bill--from
an opinion which was but a prejudice, to a submission which was still half repugnance. He drew
attention to the remarkable and growing movement in support of the Maxwell policy which was
now spreading throughout the country, after a period of coolness and suspended judgment; he
pointed to the probable ease with which, as it was now seen, the "harassed trades" would adapt
themselves to the new law; he showed that the House, in at least three critical divisions,
and under circumstances of enormous difficulty, had still affirmed the Bill; that the country,
during the progress of the measure, had rallied unmistakably to the Government, and that all
that remained was a question of machinery. That being so, he--and, he believed, some others--had
reconsidered their positions. Their electoral pledges, in their opinion, no longer held, though
they would be ready at any moment to submit themselves to consequences, if consequences there
were to be.

Then, taking up the special subject-matter of the clause, he threw himself upon his leader's
speech with a nervous energy, an information, and a resource which held the House amazed. He
tore to pieces Fontenoy's elaborate attack, showed what practical men thought of the clause,
and with what careful reliance upon their opinion and their experience it had been framed;
and, finally--with a reference not lacking in a veiled passion that told upon the House, to
those "dim toiling thousands" whose lot, "as it comes to work upon the mind, is daily perplexing
if not transforming the thoughts and ideals of such men as I"--he, in the plainest terms, announced
his intention of voting with the Government, and sat down, amid the usual mingled storm, in
a shouting and excited House.

The next hour passed in a tumult. One speaker after another got up from the Liberal benches--burly
manufacturers and men of business, who had so far held a strong post in the army of resistance--to
tender their submission, to admit that the fight had gone far enough, that the country was
against them, and that the Bill must be borne. What use, too, in turning out a Government which
would either be sent back with redoubled strength or replaced by combinations that had no attractions
whatever from men of moderate minds? Sadness reigned in the speeches of this Liberal remnant;
nor could the House from time to time forbear to jeer them. But they made their purpose plain,
and the Government Whip, standing near the door, gleefully struck off name after name from
his Opposition list.

Then followed the usual struggle between the division that all men wanted and the speakers
that no man could endure. But at last the bell was rung, the House cleared. As Tressady turned
against the stream of his party, Fontenoy, with a sarcastic smile, stood elaborately aside
to let him pass.

"We shall soon know what you have cost us," he said hoarsely in Tressady's ear; then, advancing
a little towards the centre of the floor, he looked up markedly and deliberately at the Ladies'
Gallery. Tressady made no reply. He held his fair head higher than usual as he passed on his
unaccustomed way to the Aye Lobby. Many an eager eye strained back to see how many recruits
would join him as he reached the Front Opposition Bench; many a Parliamentary Nestor watched
the young man's progress with a keenness born of memory--memory that burnt anew with the battles
of the past.

"Do you remember Chandos," said one old man to another--"young Chandos, that went for Peel
in '46 against his party? It was my first year in Parliament. I can see him now. He was something
like this young fellow."

"But his ratting changed nothing," said his companion, with an uneasy laugh; and they both
struggled forward among the Noes.

Twenty minutes later the tellers were at the table, and the moment that was to make or mar
a great Ministry had come.

"Ayes, 306; Noes, 280. The Ayes have it!"

"By Jove, he's done it!--the Judas!" cried a young fellow, crimson with excitement, who was
standing beside Fontenoy!

"Yes--he's done it!" said Fontenoy, with grim composure, though the hand that held his hat
shook. "The curtain may now fall."

"Where is he?" shouted the hot bloods around him, hooting and groaning, as their eyes searched
the House for the man who had thus, in an afternoon, pulled down and defeated all their hopes.

But Tressady was nowhere to be seen. He had left the House just as the great news, surging
like a wave through Lobby and corridor, reached a group of people waiting in a Minister's private
room--and Marcella Maxwell knew that all was won.

CHAPTER XVIII

"I Shall go straight to Brook Street, and see if I can be a comfort to Letty," said Mrs. Watton,
with a tone and air, however, that seemed to class her rather with the Sons of Thunder than
the Sons of Consolation.

She was standing on the steps of the Ladies' Gallery entrance to the House of Commons, and
Harding, who had just called a cab for her, was beside her.

"Could you see from the Gallery whether George had left?"

"He was still there when I came down," said Mrs. Watton, ungraciously, as though she grudged
to talk of such a monster. "I saw him near the door while they hooted him. But, anyway, I should
go to Letty--I don't forget that I am her only relative in town."

As a matter of fact, her eyes had played her false. But the wrath with which her large face
and bonnet were shaking was cause enough for hallucinations.

"Then I'll go, too," said Harding, who had been hesitating. "No doubt Tressady'll stay for
his thanks! But I daresay we sha'n't find Letty at home yet. I know she was to go to the Lucys'
to-night."

"Poor lamb!" said Mrs. Watton, throwing up her hands.

Harding laughed.

"Oh! Letty won't take it like a lamb--you'll see!"

"What can a woman do?" said his mother, scornfully. "A decent woman, I mean, whom one can still
have in one's house. All she can do is to cry, and take a district."

When they reached Upper Brook Street, the butler reported that his mistress had just come in.
He made, of course, no difficulty about admitting Lady Tressady's aunt, and Mrs. Watton sailed
up to the drawing-room, followed by Harding, who carried his head poked forward, as was usual
to him, an opera-hat under his arm, and an eyeglass swinging from a limp wrist.

As they entered the drawing-room door, Letty, in full evening-dress, was standing with her
back to them. She had the last edition of an evening paper open before her, so that her small
head and shoulders seemed buried in the sheet. And so eager was her attention to what she was
reading that she had not heard their approach.

"Letty!" said Mrs. Watton.

Her niece turned with a violent start.

"My dear Letty!" The aunt approached, quivering with majestic sympathy, both hands outstretched.

Letty looked at her a moment, frowning; then recoiled impatiently, without taking any notice
of the hands.

"So I see George has spoken against his party. There has been a scene. What has happened? What's
the end?"

"Only that the Government has won its clause," said Harding, interposing his smooth falsetto--"won
by a substantial majority, too. No chance of the Lords playing the fool!"

"The Government has won?--the Maxwells have won, that is,--she has won!" said Letty, still
frowning, her voice sharp and tingling.

"If you like to put it so," said Harding, raising his shoulders. "Yes, I should think that
set's pretty jubilant to-night."

"And you mean to say that George did and said nothing to prepare you, my poor child?" cried
Mrs. Watton, in her heaviest manner. She had picked up the newspaper, and was looking with
disgust at the large head-lines with which the hastily printed sheet strove to eke out the
brevity of the few words in which it announced the speech of the evening: "Scene in the House
of Commons--Break-down of the Resistance to the Bill--Sir George Tressady's Speech--Unexampled
Excitement."

Letty breathed fast.

"He said something a day or two ago about a change, but of course I never believed--He has
disgraced himself!"

She began to pace stormily up and down the room, her white skirts floating behind her, her
small hands pulling at her gloves. Harding Watton stood looking on in an attitude of concern,
one pensive finger laid upon his lip.

"Well, my dear Letty," said Mrs. Watton, impressively, as she laid down the newspaper, "the
only thing to be done is to take him away. Let people forget it--if they can. And let me tell
you, for your comfort, that he is not the first man, by a long way, that woman has led astray--nor
will he be the last."

Letty's pale cheeks flamed into red. She stopped. She turned upon her comforter with eyes of
hot resentment and dislike.

"And they dare to say that he did it for her! What right has anybody to say it?"

Mrs. Watton stared. Harding slowly and compassionately shook his head.

"I am afraid the world dares to say a great many unpleasant things--don't you know? One has
to put up with it. Lady Maxwell has a characteristic way of doing things. It's like a painter:
one can't miss the touch."

"No more than one can mistake a saying of Harding Watton's," said a vibrating voice behind them.

And there in the open doorway stood Tressady, pale, spent, and hollow-eyed, yet none the less
the roused master of the house, determined to assert himself against a couple of intruders.

Letty looked at him in silence, one foot beating the ground. Harding started, and turned aside
to search for his opera-hat, which he had deposited upon the sofa. Mrs. Watton was quite unabashed.

"We did not expect you so soon," she said, holding out a chilly hand. "And I daresay you will
misunderstand our being here. I cannot help that. It seemed to me my duty, as Letty's nearest
relative in London, to come here and condole with her to-night on this deplorable event."

"I don't know what you mean," said Tressady, coolly, his hand on his side. "Are you speaking
of the division?"

Mrs. Watton threw up her hands and her eyebrows. Then, gathering up her dress, she marched
across the room to Letty.

"Good-night, Letty. I should have been glad to have had a quiet talk with you, but as your
husband's come in I shall go. Oh! I'm not the person to interfere between husband and wife.
Get him to tell you, if you can, why he has disappointed the friends and supporters who got
him into Parliament; why he has broken all his promises, and given everybody the right to pity
his unfortunate young wife! Oh! don't alarm yourself, Sir George! I say my mind, but I'm going.
I know very well that I am intruding. Good-night. Letty understands that she will always find
sympathy in my house."

And the fierce old lady swept to the door, holding the culprit with her eyes. Harding, too,
stepped up to Letty, who was standing now by the mantelpiece, with her back to the room. He
took the hand hanging by her side, and folded it ostentatiously in both of his.

"Good-night, dear little cousin," he said, in his most affected voice. "If you have any need
of us, command us."

"Are you going?" said Tressady. His brow was curiously wrinkled.

Harding made him a bow, and walked with rather sidling steps to the door. Tressady followed
him to the landing, called to the butler, who was still up, and ceremoniously told him to get
Mrs. Watton a cab. Then he walked back to the drawing-room, and shut the door behind him.

"Letty!"

His tone startled her. She looked round hastily.

"Letty! you were defending me as I came in."

He was extraordinarily pale--his blue eyes flashed. Every trace of the hauteur with which he
had treated the Wattons had disappeared.

Letty recovered herself in an instant. The moment he showed softness she became the tyrant.

"Don't come!--don't touch me!" she said passionately, putting out her hand as he approached
her. "If I defended you, it was just for decency's sake. You have disgraced us both. It is
perfectly true what Aunt Watton says. I don't suppose we shall ever get over it. Oh! don't
try to bully me"--for Tressady had turned away with an impatient groan. "It's no use. I know
you think me a little fool! I'm not one of your great political ladies, who pretend to know
everything that they may keep men dangling after them. I don't pose and play the hypocrite,
as some--some people do. But, all the same, I know that you have done for yourself, and that
people will say the most disgraceful things. Of course they will! And you can't deny them--you
know you can't. Why did you never tell me a thing? Who made you change over? Ah! you can't
answer--or you won't!"

Tressady was walking up and down with folded arms. He paused at her challenge.

"Why didn't I tell you? Do you remember that I wanted to talk to you yesterday morning--that
I suggested you should come and hear my speech--and you wouldn't have it? You didn't care about
politics, you said, and weren't going to pretend.--What made me go over? Well--I changed my
mind--to some extent," he said slowly.

"To some extent?" She laughed scornfully, mimicking his voice. "To some extent! Are you going
to try and make me believe there was nothing else?"

"No. As I walked home to-night I determined not to conceal the truth from you. Opinions counted
for something. I voted--yes, taking all things together, I think it may be said that I voted
honestly. But I should never have taken the part I did but--" he hesitated, then went on deliberately--"but
that I had come to have a strong--wish--to give Lady Maxwell her heart's desire. She has been
my friend. I repaid her what I could."

Letty, half beside herself, flung at him a shower of taunts hysterical and hardly intelligible.
He showed no emotion. "Of course," he said disdainfully, "if you choose to repeat this to others
you will do us both great damage. I suppose I can't help it. For anybody else in the world--for
Mrs. Watton and her son, for instance--I have a perfectly good political defence, and I shall
defend myself stoutly. I have no intention whatever of playing the penitent in public."

And what, she asked him, striving with all her might to regain the self-command which could
alone enable her to wound him, to get the mastery--what was to be her part in this little comedy?
Did he expect her to put up with this charming situation--to take what Marcella Maxwell left?

"No," he said abruptly. "You have no right to reproach me or her in any vulgar way. But I recognise
that the situation is impossible. I shall probably leave Parliament and London."

She stared at him in speechless passion, then suddenly gathered up her fan and gloves and fled
past him.

He caught at her, and stopped her, holding her satin skirt.

"My poor child!" he cried in remorse; "bear with me, Letty--and forgive me!"

"I hate you!" she said fiercely, "and I will never forgive you!"

She wrenched her dress away; he heard her quick steps across the floor and up the stairs.

Tressady fell into a chair, broken with exhaustion. His day in the House of Commons alone would
have tried any man's nervous strength; this final scene had left him in a state to shrink from
another word, another sound.

He must have dozed as he sat there from pure fatigue, for he found himself waking suddenly,
with a sense of chill, as the August dawn was penetrating the closed windows and curtains.

He sprang up, and pulled the curtains back with a stealthy hand, so as to make no noise. Then
he opened the window and stepped out upon the balcony, into a misty haze of sun.

The morning air blew upon him, and he drew it in with delight. How blessed was the sun, and
the silence of the streets, and the dappled sky there to the east, beyond the Square!

After those long hours of mental tension in the crowd and heat of the House of Commons, what
joy! what physical relief! He caught eagerly at the sensation of bodily pleasure, driving away
his cares, letting the morning freshness recall to him a hundred memories--the memories of
a traveller who has seen much, and loved Nature more than man. Blue surfaces of rippling sea,
cool steeps among the mountains, streams brawling over their stones, a thousand combinations
of grass and trees and sun--these things thronged through his brain, evoked by the wandering
airs of this pale London sunrise and the few dusty plains which he could see to his right,
behind the Park railings. And, like heralds before the presence, these various images flitted,
passed, drew to one side, while memory in trembling revealed at last the best she had--an English
river flowing through June meadows under a heaven of flame, a woman with a child, the scents
of grass and hawthorn, the plashing of water.

He hung over the balcony, dreaming.

But before long he roused himself, and went back into the house. The gaudy drawing-room looked
singularly comfortless and untidy in the delicate purity of the morning light. The flowers
Letty had worn in her dress the night before were scattered on the floor, and the evening paper
lay on the chair, where she had flung it down.

He stood in the centre of the room, his head raised, listening. No sound. Surely she was asleep.
In spite of all the violence she had shown in their after-talk, the memory of her speech to
Mrs. Watton lingered in the young fellow's mind. It astonished him to realise, as he stood
there, in this morning silence, straining to hear if his wife were moving overhead, how, pari
passu with the headlong progress of his act of homage to the one woman, certain sharp perceptions
with regard to the other had been rising in his mind.

His life had been singularly lacking till now in any conscious moral strain. That a man's desires
should outrun his conscience had always seemed to him, on the whole, the normal human state.
But all sorts of new standards and ideals had begun to torment him since the beginning of his
friendship with Marcella Maxwell, and a hundred questions that had never yet troubled him were
even now pressing through his mind as to his relations to his wife, and the inexorableness
of his debt towards her.

Moreover, he had hardly left the House of Commons and its uproar--his veins were still throbbing
with the excitement of the division--when a voice said to him, "This is the end! You have had
your 'moment'--now leave the stage before any mean anti-climax comes to spoil it all. Go. Break
your life across. Don't wait to be dismissed and shaken off--take her gratitude with you, and go!"

Ah! but not yet--not yet! He sat down before his wife's little writing-table, and buried his
face in his hands, while his heart burnt with longing. One day--then he would accept his fate,
and try and mend both his own life and Letty's.

Would it be generous to drop out of her ken at once, leave the gift in her lap, and say nothing?
Ah! but he was not capable of it. His act must have its price. Just one half hour with her--face
to face. Then, shut the door--and, good-bye! What was there to fear? He could control himself.
But after all these weeks, after their conversation of the night before, to go away without
a word would be discourteous--unkind even--almost a confession to her of the whys and wherefores
of what he had done.

He had a book of hers which he had promised to return. It was a precious little manuscript
book, containing records written out by herself of lives she had known among the poor. She
prized it much, and had begged him to keep it safe and return it.

He took it out of his pocket, looked at it, and put it carefully back. In a few hours the little
book should pass him into her presence. The impulse that possessed him barred for the moment
all remorse, all regret.

Then he looked for paper and pen and began to write.

He sat for some time, absorbed in his task, doing his very best with it. It was a letter to
his constituents, and it seemed to him he must have been thinking of it in his sleep, so easily
did the sentences run.

No doubt, ill-natured gossip of the Watton type would be humming and hissing round her name
for the next few days. Well, let him write his letter as well as he could, and publish it as
soon as possible! It took him about an hour and a half, and when he read it over it appeared
to him the best piece of political statement he had yet achieved. Very likely it would make
Fontenoy more savage still. But Fontenoy's tone and attitude in the House of Commons had been
already decisive. The breech between them was complete.

He put the sheets down at last, groaning within himself. Fustian and emptiness! What would
ever give him back his old self-confidence, the gay whole-heartedness with which he had entered
Parliament? But the thing had to be done, and he had done it efficiently. Moreover, the brain-exercise
had acted as a tonic; his tension of nerve had returned. He stood beside the window once more,
looking out into a fast-awakening London with an absent and frowning eye. He was thinking out
the next few hours.

       *       *       *       *       *

A little after eight Letty was roused from a restless sleep by the sound of a closing door.
She rang hastily, and Grier appeared.

"Who was that went out?"

"Sir George, my lady. He's just dressed and left word that he had gone to take a packet to
the 'Pall Mall' office. He said it must be there early, and he would breakfast at his club."

Letty sat up in bed, and bade Grier draw the curtains, and be quick in bringing her what she
wanted. The maid glanced inquisitively, first at her mistress's haggard looks, then at the
writing-table, as she passed it on her way to draw the blinds. The table was littered with
writing-materials; some torn sheets had been transferred to the waste-paper basket, and a sealed
letter was lying, address downwards, on the blotting-book. Letty, however, did not encourage
her to talk. Indeed, she found herself sent away, and her mistress dressed without her.

Half an hour later Letty in her hat and cape slipped out of her room. She looked over the banisters
into the hall. No one was to be seen, and she ran downstairs to the hall-door, which closed
softly behind her. Five minutes later a latch-key turned quietly in the lock, and Letty reappeared.
She went rapidly up to her room, a pale, angry ghost, glancing from side to side.

"Is Lady Maxwell at home?"

The butler glanced doubtfully at the inquirer.

"Sir George Tressady, I believe, sir? I will go and ask, if you will kindly wait a moment.
Her ladyship does not generally see visitors in the morning."

"Tell her, please, that I have brought a parcel to return to her."

The butler retired, and shortly appeared at the corner of the stairs beckoning to the visitor.
George mounted.

They passed through the outer drawing-room, and the servant drew aside the curtain of the inner
room. Was it February again? The scent of hyacinth and narcissus seemed to be floating round him.

There was a hasty movement, and a tall figure came with a springing step to meet him.

"Sir George! How kind of you to come! I wish Maxwell were in. He would have enjoyed a chat
with you so much. But Lord Ardagh sent him a note at breakfast-time, and he has just gone over
to Downing Street. Hallin, move your puzzle a little, and make a way for Sir George to pass.
Will you sit there?"

Hallin sprang up readily enough at the sight of his friend Sir George, put a fat hand into
his, and then gave his puzzle-map of Europe a vigorous push to one side that drove Crete helplessly
into the arms of the United Kingdom.

"Oh! what a muddle!" cried his mother, laughing, and standing to look at the disarray. "You
must try, Hallin, and see if you can straighten it out--as Sir George straightened out father's
Bill for him last night."

She turned to him; but the softness of her eyes was curiously veiled. It struck George at once
that she was not at her ease--that there had been embarrassment in her very greeting of him.

They began to talk of the debate. She asked him minutely about the progress of the combination
that had defeated Fontenoy. They discussed this or that man's attitude, or they compared the
details of the division with those of the divisions which had gone before.

All through it seemed to Tressady that the person sitting in his chair and talking politics
was a kind of automaton, with which the real George Tressady had very little to do. The automaton
wore a grey summer suit, and seemed to be talking shrewdly enough, though with occasional lapses
and languors. The real Tressady sat by, and noted what passed. "How pale she is! She is not
really happy--or triumphant. How she avoids all personal talk--nothing to be said, or hardly,
of my part in it--my effort. Ah! she praises my speech, but with no warmth--I see! she would
rather not owe such a debt to me. Her mind is troubled--perhaps Maxwell?--or some vile talk?"

Meanwhile, all that Marcella perceived was that the man beside her became gradually more restless
and more silent. She sat near him, with Hallin at her feet, her beautiful head held a little
stiffly, her eyes at once kind and reserved. Nothing could have been simpler than her cool
grey dress, her quiet attitude. Yet it seemed to him he had never felt her dignity so much--a
moral dignity, infinitely subtle and exquisite, which breathed not only from her face and movements,
but from the room about her--the room which held the pictures she loved, the books she read,
the great pots of wild flowers or branching green it was her joy to set like jewels in its
shady corners. He looked round it from time to time. It had for him the associations and the
scents of a shrine, and he would never see it again! His heart swelled within him. The strange
double sense died away.

Presently, Hallin, having put his puzzle safely into its box, ran off to his lessons. His mother
looked after him, wistfully. And he had no sooner shut the door than Tressady bent forward.
"You see--I thought it out!"

"Yes indeed!" she said, "and to some purpose."

But her voice was uncertain, and veiled like her eyes. Something in her reluctance to meet
him, to talk it over, both alarmed and stung him. What was wrong? Had she any grievance against
him? Had he so played his part as to offend her in any way? He searched his memory anxiously,
his self-control, that he had been so sure of, failing him fast.

"It was a strange finish to the session--wasn't it?" he said, looking at her. "We didn't think
it would end so, when we first began to argue. What a queer game it all is! Well, my turn of
it will have been exciting enough--though short. I can't say, however, that I shall much regret
putting down the cards. I ought never to have taken a hand."

She turned to him, in flushed dismay.

"You are thinking of leaving Parliament? But why--why should you?"

"Oh yes!--I am quite clear about that," he said deliberately. "It was not yesterday only. I
am of no use in Parliament. And the only use it has been to me, is to show me--that--well!--that
I have no party really, and no convictions. London has been a great mistake. I must get out
of it--if only--lest my private life should drift on a rock and go to pieces. So far as I know
it has brought me one joy only, one happiness only--to know you!"

He turned very pale. The hand that was lying on her lap suddenly shook. She raised it hastily,
took some flowers out of a jar of poppies and grass that was standing near, and nervously put
them back again. Then she said gently, almost timidly:

"I owe a great deal to your friendship. My mind--please believe it--is full of thanks. I lay
awake last night, thinking of all the thousands of people that speech of yours would save--all
the lives that hang upon it."

"I never thought of them at all," he said abruptly. His heart seemed to be beating in his throat.

She shrank a little. Evidently her presence of mind failed her, and he took advantage.

"I never thought of them," he repeated, "or, at least, they weighed with me as nothing compared
with another motive. As for the thing itself, by the time yesterday arrived I had given up
my judgment to yours--I had simply come to think that what you wished was good. A force I no
longer questioned drove me on to help you to your end. That was the whole secret of last night.
The rest was only means to a goal."

But he paused. He saw that she was trembling--that the tears were in her eyes.

"I have been afraid," she said, trying hard for composure--"it has been weighing upon me all
through these hours--that--I had been putting a claim--a claim of my own forward." It seemed
hardly possible for her to find the words. "And I have been realising the issues for you, feeling
bitterly that I had done a great wrong--if it were not a matter of conviction--in--in wringing
so much from a friend. This morning everything,--the victory, the joy of seeing hard work bear
fruit,--it has all been blurred to me."

He gazed at her a moment--fixing every feature, every line upon his memory.

"Don't let it be," he said quietly, at last. "I have had my great moment. It does not fall
to many to feel as I felt for about an hour last night. I had seen you in trouble and anxiety
for many weeks. I was able to brush them away, to give you relief and joy,--at least, I thought
I was"--he drew himself up with a half-impatient smile. "Sometimes I suspected that--that your
kindness might be troubled about me; but I said to myself, 'that will pass away, and the solid
thing--the fact--will remain. She longed for this particular thing. She shall have it. And
if the truth is as she supposes it,--why not?--there are good men and keen brains with her--what
has been done will go on gladdening and satisfying her year by year. As for me, I shall have
acknowledged, shall have repaid--'"

He hesitated--paused--looked up.

A sudden terror seized her--her lips parted.

"Don't--don't say these things!" she said, imploring, lifting her hand. It was like a child
flinching from a punishment.

He smiled unsteadily, trying to master himself, to find a way through the tumult of feeling.

"Won't you listen to me?" he said at last, "I sha'n't ever trouble you again."

She could make no reply. Intolerable gratitude and pain held her, and he went on speaking,
gazing straight into her shrinking face.

"It seems to me," he said slowly, "the people who grow up in the dry and mean habit of mind
that I grew up in, break through in all sorts of different ways. Art and religion--I suppose
they change and broaden a man. I don't know. I am not an artist--and religion talks to me of
something I don't understand. To me, to know you has broken down the walls, opened the windows.
It always used to come natural to me--well! to think little of people, to look for the mean,
ugly things in them, especially in women. The only people I admired were men of action--soldiers,
administrators; and it often seemed to me that women hampered and belittled them. I said to
myself, one mustn't let women count for too much in one's life. And the idea of women troubling
their heads with politics, or social difficulties, half amused, half disgusted me. At the same
time I was all with Fontenoy in hating the usual philanthropic talk about the poor. It seemed
to be leading us to mischief--I thought the greater part of it insincere. Then I came to know
you.--And, after all, it seemed a woman could talk of public things, and still be real--the
humanity didn't rub off, the colour stood! It was easy, of course, to say that you had a personal
motive--other people said it, and I should have liked to echo it. But from the beginning I
knew that didn't explain it. All the women,"--he checked himself,--"most of the women I had
ever known judged everything by some petty personal standard. They talked magnificently, perhaps,
but there was always something selfish and greedy at bottom. Well, I was always looking for
it in you! Then instead--suddenly--I found myself anxious lest what I said should displease
or hurt you--lest you should refuse to be my friend. I longed, desperately, to make you understand
me--and then, after our talks, I hated myself for posing, and going further than was sincere.
It was so strange to me not to be scoffing and despising."

Marcella woke from her trance of pain--looked at him with amazement. But the sight of him--a
man, with the perspiration on his brow, struggling now to tell the bare truth about himself
and his plight--silenced her. She hung towards him again, as pale as he, bearing what fate
had sent her.

"And ever since that day," he went on, putting his hand over his eyes, "when you walked home
with me along the river, to be with you, to watch you, to puzzle over you, has built up a new
self in me, that strains against and tears the old one. So these things--these heavenly, exquisite
things that some men talk of--this sympathy, and purity, and sweetness--were true! They were
true because you existed--because I had come to know something of your nature--had come to
realise what it might be--for a man to have the right--"

He broke off, and buried his face in his hands, murmuring incoherent things. Marcella rose
hurriedly, then stood motionless, her head turned from him, that she might not hear. She felt
herself stifled with rising tears. Once or twice she began to speak, and the words died away
again. At last she said, bending towards him:

"I have done very ill--very, very ill. I have been thinking all through of my personal want--of
personal victory."

He shook his head, protesting. And she hardly knew how to go on. But suddenly the word of nature,
of truth, came; though in the speaking it startled them both.

"Sir George!"--she put out her hand timidly and touched him--"may I tell you what I am thinking
of? Not of you, nor of me--of another person altogether!"

He looked up.

"My wife?" he said, almost in his usual voice.

She said nothing; she was struggling with herself. He got up abruptly, walked to the open window,
stood there a few seconds, and came back.

"It has to be all thought out again," he said, looking at her appealingly. "I must go away,
perhaps--and realise--what can be done. I took marriage as carelessly as I took everything
else. I must try and do better with it."

A sudden perception leapt in Marcella, revealing strange worlds. How she could have hated--with
what fierceness, what flame!--the woman who taught ideal truths to Maxwell! She thought of
the little self-complacent being in the white satin wedding-dress, that had sat beside her
at Castle Luton--thought of her with overwhelming soreness and pain. Stepping quickly, her
tears driven back, she went across the room to Tressady.

"I don't know what to say," she began, stopping suddenly beside him, and leaning her hand for
support on a table while her head drooped. "I have been very selfish--very blind. But--mayn't
it be the beginning--of something quite--quite--different? I was thinking only of Maxwell--or
myself. But I ought to have thought of you--of my friend. I ought to have seen--but oh! how
could I!" She broke off, wrestling with this amazing difficulty of choosing, amid all the thoughts
that thronged to her lips, something that might be said--and if said, might heal.

But before he could interrupt her, she went on: "The harm was, in acting all through--by myself--as
if only you and I, and Maxwell's work--were concerned. If I had made you known to him--if I
had remembered--had thought--"

But she stopped again, in a kind of bewilderment. In truth she did not yet understand what
had happened to her--how it could have happened to her--to her, whose life, soul, and body,
to the red ripe of its inmost heart, was all Maxwell's, his possession, his chattel.

Tressady looked at her with a little sad smile.

"It was your unconsciousness," he said, in a low trembling voice, "of what you are--and have--that
was so beautiful."

Somehow the words recalled her natural dignity, her noble pride as Maxwell's wife. She stood
erect, composure and self-command returning. She was not her own, to humble herself as she pleased.

"We must never talk to each other like this again," she said gently, after a little pause.
"We must try and understand each other--the real things in each other's lives.--Don't lay a
great remorse on me, Sir George!--don't spoil your future, and your wife's--don't give up Parliament!
You have great, great gifts! All this will seem just a passing misunderstanding--both to you--and
me--by and by. We shall learn to be--real friends--you and we--together?"

She looked at him appealing--her face one prayer.

But he, flushing, shook his head.

"I must not come into your world," he said huskily. "I must go."

The wave of grief rolled upon her again. She turned away, looking across the room with wide
dim eyes, as though asking for some help that did not come.

Tressady walked quickly back to the chair where he had been sitting, and took up his hat and
gloves. Suddenly, as he looked back to her, he struck one of the gloves across his hand.

"What a coward--what a mean whining wretch I was to come to you this morning! I said to myself--like
a hypocrite--that I could come--and go--without a word. My God--if I had!"--the low hoarse
voice became a cry of pain--"I might still have taken some joy--"

He wrestled with himself.

"It was mad selfishness," he said at last, recovering himself by a fierce effort. "Mad it must
have been--or I could never have come here to give you pain. Some demon drove me. Oh, forgive
me!--forgive me! Good-bye! I shall bless you while I live. But you--you must never think of
me, never speak of me--again."

She felt his grasp upon her fingers. He stooped, passionately kissed her hand and a fold of
her dress. She rose hurriedly; but the door had closed upon him before she had found her voice
or choked down the sob in her throat.

She could only drop back into her chair, weeping silently, her face hidden in her hands.

A few minutes passed. There was a step outside. She sprang up and listened, ready to fly to
the window and hide herself among the curtains. Then the colour flooded into her cheek. She
waited. Maxwell came in. He, too, looked disturbed, and as he entered the room he thrust a
letter into his pocket, almost with violence. But when his eyes fell on his wife a pang seized
him. He hurried to her, and she leant against him, saying in a sobbing voice:

"George Tressady has been here. I seem to have done him a wrong--and his wife. I am not fit
to help you, Aldous. I do such rushing, blind, foolish things--and all that one hoped and worked
for turns to mere selfishness and misery. Whom shall I hurt next? You, perhaps--you!"

And she clung to him in despair.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few minutes later the husband and wife were in conference together, Marcella sitting, Maxwell
standing beside her. Marcella's tears had ceased; but never had Maxwell seen her so overwhelmed,
so sad, and he felt half ashamed of his own burning irritation and annoyance with the whole matter.

Clearly, what he had dimly foreseen on the night of her return from the Mile End meeting had
happened. This young man, ill-balanced, ill-mated, yet full of a sensitive ability and perception,
had fallen in love with her; and Maxwell owed his political salvation to his wife's charm.

The more he loved her, the more odious the situation was to him. That any rational being should
have even the shred of an excuse for regarding her as the political coquette, using her beauty
for a personal end, struck him as a kind of sacrilege, and made him rage inwardly. Nevertheless,
the idea struck him--struck and kindled him all at once that the very perfectness of this tie
that bound them together weakened her somewhat as a woman in her dealing with the outside world.
It withdrew from her some of a woman's ordinary intuitions with regard to the men around her.
The heart had no wants, and therefore no fears. To any man she liked she was always ready,
as she came to know him, to show her true self with a freedom and loveliness that were like
the freedom and loveliness of a noble child. To have supposed that such a man could have any
feelings towards her other than those she gave to her friends would have seemed to her a piece
of ill-bred vanity. Such contingencies lay outside her ken; she would have brushed them away
with a laughing contempt had they been presented to her. Her life was at once too happy and
too busy for such things. How could anyone fall in love with Aldous's wife? Why should they?--if
one was to ask the simplest question of all.

Yet Maxwell, as he stood looking down upon her, conscious of a certain letter in his inner
pocket, felt with growing yet most unwilling determination that he must somehow try and make
her turn her eyes upon this dingy world and see it as it is.

For it was not the case merely of a spiritual drama in which a few souls, all equally sincere
and void of offence, were concerned. That, in Maxwell's eyes, would have been already disagreeable
and tragic enough. But here was this keen, spiteful crowd of London society watching for what
it might devour--those hateful newspapers!--not to speak of the ordinary fool of everyday life.

There had not been wanting a number of small signs and warnings. The whole course of the previous
day's debate, the hour of Tressady's speech, while Maxwell sat listening in the Speaker's Gallery
overhead, had been for him--for her, too--poisoned by a growing uneasiness, a growing distaste
for the triumph laid at their feet. She had come down to him from the Ladies' Gallery pale
and nervous, shrinking almost from the grasp of his hand.

"What will happen? Has he made his position in Parliament impossible?" she had said to him
as they stood together for a moment in the Home Secretary's room; and he understood, of course,
that she was speaking of Tressady. In the throng that presently overwhelmed them he had no
time to answer her; but he believed that she, too, had been conscious of the peculiar note
in some of the congratulations showered upon them on their way through the crowded corridors
and lobbies. On the steps of St. Stephen's entrance an old white-haired gentleman, the friend
and connection of Maxwell's father, had clapped the successful Minister on the back, with a
laughing word in his ear: "Upon my word, Aldous, your beautiful lady is a wife to conjure with!
I hear she has done the whole thing--educated the young man, brought him to his bearings, spoilt
all Fontenoy's plans, broken up the group, in fact. Glorious!" and the old man looked with
eyes half sarcastic, half admiring at the form of Lady Maxwell standing beside the carriage-door.

"I imagine the group has broken itself up," said Maxwell, shortly, shaking off his tormentor.
But as he glanced back from, the carriage-window to the crowded doorway, and the faces looking
after them, the thought of the talk that was probably passing amid the throng set every nerve
on edge.

Meanwhile she sat beside him, unconsciously a little more stately than usual, but curiously
silent--till at last, as they were nearing Trafalgar Square, she threw out her hand to him,
almost timidly:

"You do rejoice?"

"I do," he said, with a long breath, pressing the hand. "I suppose nothing ever happens as
one has foreseen it. How strange, when one looks back to that Sunday!"

She made no reply, and since then Tressady's name had been hardly mentioned between them. They
had discussed every speech but his--even when the morning papers came, reflecting the astonishment
and excitement of the public. The pang in Marcella's mind was--"Aldous thinks I asked a personal
favour--Did I?" And memory would fall back into anxious recapitulation of the scene with Tressady.
Had she indeed pressed her influence with him too much--taken advantage of his Parliamentary
youth and inexperience? In the hours of the night that followed the division, merely to ask
the question tormented a conscience as proud as it was delicate.

And now!--this visit--this incredible declaration--this eagerness for his reward! Maxwell's
contempt and indignation were rising fast. Mere chivalry, mere decent manners even, he thought,
might have deterred a man from such an act. Meanwhile, in rapid flashes of thought he began
to debate with himself how he should use this letter in his pocket--this besmirching, degrading
letter.

But Marcella had much more to say. Presently she roused herself from her trance and looked
at her husband.

"Aldous!"--she touched him on the arm, and he turned to her gravely--"There was one moment
at Mile End, when--when I did play upon his pity--his friendship. He came down to Mile End
on Thursday night. I told you. I saw he was unhappy--unhappy at home. He wanted sympathy desperately.
I gave it him. Then I urged him to throw himself into his public work--to think out this vote
he was to give. Oh! I don't know!--I don't know--" she broke off, in a depressed voice, shaking
her head slowly--"I believe I threw myself upon his feelings--I felt that he was very sympathetic,
that I had a power over him--it was a kind of bribery."

Her brow drooped under his eye.

"I believe you are quite unjust to yourself," he said unwillingly. "Of course, if any man chooses
to misinterpret a confidence--"

"No," she said steadily. "I knew. It was quite different from any other time. I remember how
uncomfortable I felt afterwards. I did try to influence him--just through, being a woman. There!--it
is quite true."

He could not withdraw his eyes from hers--from the mingling of pride, humility, passion, under
the dark lashes.

"And if you did, do you suppose that I can blame you?" he said slowly.

He saw that she was holding an inquisition in her own heart, and looking to him as judge. How
could he judge?--whatever there might be to judge. He adored her.

For the moment she did not answer him. She clasped her hands round her knees, thinking aloud.

"From the beginning, I remember I thought of him as somebody quite new and fresh to what he
was doing--somebody who would certainly be influenced--who ought to be influenced. And then"--she
raised her eyes again, half shrinking--"there was the feeling, I suppose, of personal antagonism
to Lord Fontenoy! One could not be sorry to detach one of his chief men. Besides, after Castle
Luton, George Tressady was so attractive! You did not know him, Aldous; but to talk to him
stirred all one's energies; it was a perpetual battle--one took it up again and again, enjoying
it always. As we got deeper in the fight I tried never to think of him as a member of Parliament--often
I stopped myself from saying things that might have persuaded him, as far as the House was
concerned. And yet, of course"--her face, in its nobility, took a curious look of hardness--"I
did know all the time that he was coming to think more and more of me--to depend on me. He
disliked me at first--afterwards he seemed to avoid me--then I felt a change. Now I see I thought
of him all along; just in one capacity--in relation to what I wanted--whether I tried to persuade
him or no. And all the time--"

A cloud of pain effaced the frown. She leant her head against her husband's arm.

"Aldous!"--her voice was low and miserable,--"what can his wife have felt towards me? I never
thought of her after Castle Luton--she seemed to me such a vulgar, common little being. Surely,
surely!--if they are so unhappy, it can't be--my doing; there was cause enough--"

Nothing could have been more piteous than the tone. It was laden with the remorse that only
such a nature could feel for such a cause. Maxwell's hand touched her head tenderly. A variety
of expressions crossed his face, then a sharp flash of decision.

"Dear! I think you ought to know--she has written to me."

Marcella sprang up. Face and neck flushed crimson. She threw him an uncertain look, the nostrils
quivering.

"Will you show me the letter?"

He hesitated. On his first reading of it he had vowed to himself that she should never see
it. But since her confessions had begun to make the matter clearer to him a moral weight had
pressed upon him. She must realise her power, her responsibility! Moreover, they two, with
conscience and good sense to guide them, had got to find a way out of this matter. He did not
feel that he could hide the letter from her if there was to be common action and common understanding.

So he gave it to her.

She read it pacing up and down, unconscious sounds of pain and protest forcing themselves to
her lips from time to time, which made it very difficult for him to stand quietly where he
was. On that effusion of gall and bitterness poor Letty had spent her sleepless night. Every
charge that malice could bring, every distortion that jealousy could apply to the simplest
incident, every insinuation that, judged by her own standard, had seemed to her most likely
to work upon a husband--Letty had crowded them all into the mean, ill-written letter--the letter
of a shopgirl trying to rescue her young man from the clutches of a rival.

But every sentence in it was a stab to Marcella. When she had finished it she stood with it
in her hand beside her writing-table, looking absently through the window, pale, and deep in
thought. Maxwell watched her.

When her moment of consideration broke her look swept round to him.

"I shall go to her," she said simply. "I must see her!"

Maxwell pondered.

"I think," he said reluctantly, "she would only repulse and insult you."

"Then it must be borne. It cannot end so."

She walked up to him and let him draw his arm about her. They stood in silence for a minute
or two. When she raised her head again, her eyes sought his beseechingly.

"Aldous, help me! If we cannot repair this mischief,--you and I,--what are we worth? I will
tell you my plan--"

There was a sound at the door. Husband and wife moved away from each other as the butler entered.

"My lord, Mrs. Allison and Lord Fontenoy are in the library. They asked me to say that they
wish to consult your lordship on something very urgent. I told them I thought your lordship
was engaged, but I would come and see."

Marcella and Maxwell looked at each other. Ancoats! No doubt the catastrophe so long staved
off had at last arrived. Maxwell's stifled exclamation was the groan of the overworked man
who hardly knows how to find mind enough for another anxiety. But a new and sudden light shone
in his wife's face. She turned to the servant almost with eagerness:

"Please tell Mrs. Allison and Lord Fontenoy to come up."

CHAPTER XIX

The door opened silently, and there came in a figure that for a moment was hardly recognised
by either Maxwell or his wife. Shrunken, pale, and grief-stricken, Ancoats's poor mother entered,
her eye seeking eagerly for Maxwell, perceiving nothing else. She was in black, her veil hurriedly
thrown back, and the features beneath it were all blurred by distress and fatigue.

Marcella hurried to her. Mrs. Allison took her hand in both her own with the soft, appealing
motion habitual to her, then said hastily, still looking at Maxwell:

"Maxwell, the boy has gone. He left me two days ago. This morning, in my trouble, I sent for
Lord Fontenoy, my kind, kind friend. And he persuaded me to come to you at once. I begged him
to come too--"

She glanced timidly from one to the other, implying many things.

But even with this preface, Maxwell's greeting of his defeated antagonist was ceremony itself.
The natural instinct of such a man is to mask victory in courtesy. But a paragraph that morning
in Fontenoy's paper--a paragraph that he happened to have seen in Lord Ardagh's room--had appealed
to another natural instinct, stronger and more primitive. It amazed him that even this emergency
and Mrs. Allison's persuasions could have brought the owner of the paper within his doors on
this particular morning.

Fontenoy, immersed in the correspondence of the morning, had not yet chanced to see the paragraph,
which was Harding Watton's. Yet, if he had, he could not have shown a more haughty and embarrassed
bearing. He was there under a compulsion he did not know how to resist, a compulsion of tears
and grief; but the instinct for manners, which so often upon occasion serves the man of illustrious
family, as well, almost, as good feeling or education may serve another, had been for the time
weakened in him by the violences and exhaustion of the political struggle, and he did not feel
certain that he could trust himself. He was smarting still through every nerve, and the greeting
especially that Maxwell's tall wife extended to him was gall and bitterness. She meanwhile,
as she advanced towards him, was mostly struck with the perfection of his morning dress. The
ultra-correctness and strict fashion that he affected in these matters were generally a surprise
to those who knew him only by reputation.

After five minutes' question and answer the Maxwells understood something of the situation.
A servant of Ancoats's had been induced to disclose what he knew. There could be no question
that the young fellow had gone off to Normandy, where he possessed a chalet close to Trouville,
in the expectation that his fair lady would immediately join him there. She had not yet started.
So much Fontenoy had already ascertained. But she had thrown up a recent engagement within
the last few days, and before Ancoats's flight all Fontenoy's information had pointed to the
likelihood of a coup of some sort. As for the boy himself, he had left his mother at Castle
Luton, three days before, on the pretext of a Scotch visit, and had instead taken the evening
train to Paris, leaving a letter for his mother in which the influence of certain modern French
novels of the psychological kind could perhaps be detected. "The call of the heart that drives
me from you," wrote this incredible young man, "is something independent of myself. I wring
my hands, but I follow where it leads. Love has its crimes,--that I admit,--but they are the
only road to experience. And experience is all I care to live for! At any rate, I cannot accept
the limits that you, mother, would impose upon me. Each of us must be content to recognise
the other's personality. I have tried to reconcile you to an affection that must be content
to be irregular. You repel it and me, under the influence of a bigotry in which I have ceased
to believe. Suffer me, then, to act for myself in this respect. At any time that you like to
call upon me I will be your dutiful son, so long as this matter is not mentioned between us.
And let me implore you not to bring in third persons. They have already done mischief enough.
Against them I should know how to protect myself."

Maxwell returned the letter with a disgust he could hardly repress. Everything in it seemed
to him as pinchbeck as the passion itself. Mrs. Allison took it with the same miserable look,
which had in it, Marcella noticed, a certain strange sternness, as of some frail creature nerving
itself to desperate things.

"Now what shall we do?" said Maxwell, abruptly.

Fontenoy moved forward. "I presume you still command the same persons you set in motion before?
Can you get at them to-day?"

Maxwell pondered. "Yes, the clergyman. The solicitor-brother is too far away. Your idea is
to stop the girl from crossing?"

"If it were still possible." Fontenoy dropped his voice, and his gesture induced Maxwell to
follow him to the recess of a distant window.

"The chief difficulty, perhaps," said Fontenoy, resuming, "concerns the lad himself. His mother,
you will understand, cannot run any risk of being brought in contact with that woman. Nor is
she physically fit for the voyage; but someone must go, if only to content her. There has been
some wild talk of suicide, apparently--mere bombast, of course, like so much of it, but she
has been alarmed."

"Do you propose, then, to go yourself?"

"I am of no use," said Fontenoy, decisively.

Maxwell had cause to know that the statement was true, and did not press him. They fell into
a rapid consultation.

Meanwhile, Marcella had drawn Mrs. Allison to the sofa beside her, and was attempting a futile
task of comfort. Mrs. Allison answered in monosyllables, glancing hither and thither. At last
she said in a low, swift voice, as though addressing herself, rather than her companion, "If
all fails, I have made up my mind. I shall leave his house. I can take nothing more from him."

Marcella started. "But that would deprive you of all chance, all hope of influencing him,"
she said, her eager, tender look searching the other woman's face.

"No; it would be my duty," said Mrs. Allison, simply, crossing her hands upon her lap. Her
delicate blue eyes, swollen with weeping, the white hair, of which a lock had escaped from
its usual quiet braids and hung over her blanched cheeks, her look at once saintly and indomitable--every
detail of her changed aspect made a chill and penetrating impression. Marcella began to understand
what the Christian might do, though the mother should die of it.

Meanwhile she watched the two men at the other side of the room, with a manifest eagerness
for their return. Presently, indeed, she half rose and called:

"Aldous!"

Lord Maxwell turned.

"Are you thinking of someone who might go to Trouville?" she asked him.

"Yes, but we can hit on no one," he replied, in perplexity.

She moved towards him, bearing herself with a peculiar erectness and dignity.

"Would it be possible to ask Sir George Tressady to go?" she said quietly.

Maxwell looked at her open-mouthed for an instant. Fontenoy, behind him, threw a sudden, searching
glance at the beautiful figure in grey.

"We all know," she said, turning back to the mother, "that Ancoats likes Sir George."

Mrs. Allison shrunk a little from the clear look. Fontenoy's rage of defeat, however modified
in her presence, had nevertheless expressed itself to her in phrases and allusions that had
both perplexed and troubled her. Had Marcella indeed made use of her beauty to decoy a weak
youth from his allegiance? And now she spoke his name so simply.

But the momentary wonder died from the poor mother's mind.

"I remember," she said sadly, "I remember he once spoke to me very kindly about my son."

"And he thought kindly," said Marcella, rapidly; "he is kind at heart. Aldous! if Cousin Charlotte
consents, why not at least put the case to him? He knows everything. He might undertake what
we want, for her sake,--for all our sakes,--and it might succeed."

The swift yet calm decision of her manner completed Maxwell's bewilderment.

His eyes sought hers, while the others waited, conscious, somehow, of a dramatic moment. Fontenoy's
flash of malicious curiosity made him even forget, while it lasted, the little tragic figure
on the sofa.

"What do you say, Cousin Charlotte?" said Maxwell at last.

His voice was dry and business-like. Only the wife who watched him perceived the silent dignity
with which he had accepted her appeal.

He went to sit beside Mrs. Allison, stooping over her, while they talked in a low key. Very
soon she had caught at Marcella's suggestion, with an energy of despair.

"But how can we find him?" she said at last, looking helplessly round the room, at the very
chair, among others, where Tressady had just been sitting.

Maxwell felt the humour of the situation without relishing it.

"Either at his own house," he said shortly, "or the House of Commons."

"He may have left town this morning. Lord Fontenoy thought"--she looked timidly at her companion--"that
he would be sure to go and explain himself to his constituents at once."

"Well, we can find out. If you give me instructions,--if you are sure this is what you want,--we
will find out at once. Are you sure?"

"I can think of nothing better," she said, with a piteous gesture. "And if he goes, I have
only one message to give him. Ancoats knows that I have exhausted every argument, every entreaty.
Now let him tell my son"--her voice grew firm, in spite of her look of anguish--"that if he
insists on surrendering himself to a life of sin I can bear him company no more. I shall leave
his house, and go somewhere by myself, to pray for him."

Maxwell tried to soothe her, and there was some half-whispered talk between them, she quietly
wiping away her tears from time to time.

Meanwhile, Marcella and Fontenoy sat together a little way off, he at first watching Mrs. Allison,
she silent, and making no attempt to play the hostess. Gradually, however, the sense of her
presence beside him, the memory of Tressady's speech, of the scene in the House of the night
before, began to work in his veins with a pricking, exciting power. His family was famous for
a certain drastic way with women; his father, the now old and half-insane Marquis, had parted
from his mother while Fontenoy was still a child, after scenes that would have disgraced an
inn parlour. Fontenoy himself, in his reckless youth, had simply avoided the whole sex, so
far as its reputable members were concerned; till one woman by sympathy, by flattery perhaps,
by the strange mingling in herself of iron and gentleness, had tamed him. But there were brutal
instincts in his blood, and he became conscious of them as he sat beside Marcella Maxwell.

Suddenly he broke out, bending forward, one hand on his knee, the other nervously adjusting
the eyeglass without which he was practically blind.

"I imagine your side had foreseen last night better than we had?"

She drew herself together instantly.

"One can hardly say. It was evident, wasn't it, that the House as a whole was surprised? Certainly,
no one could have foreseen the numbers."

She met his look straight, her white hand playing with Mrs. Allison's card.

"Oh! a slide of that kind once begun goes like the wind," said Fontenoy. "Well, and are you
pleased with your Bill--not afraid of your promises--of all the Edens you have held out?"

The smile that he attempted roused such ogerish associations in Marcella, she must needs say
something to give colour to the half-desperate laugh that caught her.

"Did you suppose we should be already en penitence?" she asked him.

The man's wrath overcame him. So England--all the serious forces of the country--were to be
more and more henceforward at the mercy of this kind of thing! He had begun the struggle with
a scornful disbelief in current gossip. He--politically and morally the creation of a woman--had
yet not been able to bring himself to fear a woman. And now he sat there, fiercely saying to
himself that this woman, playing the old game under new names, had undone him.

"Ah! I see," he said. "You are of the mind of the Oxford don--never regret, never retract,
never apologise?"

The small, reddish eyes, like needle-points, fixed the face before him. She looked up, her
beautiful lips parting. She felt the insult--marvelled at it! On such an errand, in her own
house! Scorn was almost lost in astonishment.

"A quotation which nobody gets right--isn't it so?" she said calmly. "If a wise man said it,
I suppose he meant, 'Don't explain yourself to the wrong people,' which is good advice, don't
you think?"

She rose as she spoke, and moved away from him, that she might listen to what her husband was
saying. Fontenoy was left to reflect on the folly of a man who, being driven to ask a kindness
of his enemy, cannot keep his temper in the enemy's house. Yet his temper had been freshly
tried since he entered it. The whole suggestion of Tressady's embassy was to himself galling
in the extreme. "There is a meaning in it," he thought; "of course she thinks it will save
appearances!" There was no extravagance, no calumny, that this cold critic of other men's fervours
was not for the moment ready to believe.

Nevertheless, as he threw himself back in his chair, and his eye caught Mrs. Allison's bent
figure on the other side of the room, he knew that he must needs submit--he did submit--to
anything that could give that torn heart ease. Of his two passions, one, the passion for politics,
seemed for the moment to have lost itself in disgust and disappointment; to the other he clung
but the more strongly. Once or twice in her talk with Maxwell, Mrs. Allison raised her gentle
eyes and looked across to Fontenoy. "Are you there, my friend?" the glance seemed to say, and
a thrill spread itself through the man's rugged being. Ah, well! the follies of this young
scapegrace must wear themselves out in time, and either he would marry and so free his mother,
or he would so outrage her conscience that she would separate herself from him. Then would
come other people's rewards.

Presently, indeed, Mrs. Allison rose from her seat and advanced to him with hurried steps.

"We have settled it, I think; Maxwell will do all he can. It seems hard to trust so much to
a stranger like Sir George Tressady, but if he will go--if Ancoats likes him? We must do the
best, mustn't we?"

She raised to him her delicate, small face, in a most winning dependence. Fontenoy did not
even attempt resistance.

"Certainly--it is not a chance to lose. May I suggest also"--he looked at Maxwell--"that there
is no time to lose?"

"Give me ten minutes, and I am off," said Maxwell, hurriedly carrying a bundle of unopened
letters to a distance. He looked through them, to see if anything especially urgent required
him to give instructions to his secretary before leaving the house.

"Shall I take you home?" said Fontenoy to Mrs. Allison.

She drew her thick veil round her head and face, and said some tremulous words, which unconsciously
deepened the gloom on Fontenoy's face. Apparently they were to the effect that before going
home she wished to see the Anglican priest in whom she especially confided, a certain Father
White, who was to all intents and purposes her director. For in his courtship of this woman
of fifty, with her curious distinction and her ethereal charm, which years seemed only to increase,
Fontenoy had not one rival, but two--her son and her religion.

Fontenoy's fingers barely touched those of Maxwell and his wife. As he closed the door behind
Mrs. Allison, leaving the two together, he said to himself contemptuously that he pitied the
husband.

When the latch had settled, Maxwell threw down his letters and crossed the room to his wife.

"I only half understood you," he said, a flush rising in his face. "You really mean that we,
on this day of all days--that I--am to personally ask this kindness of George Tressady?"

"I do!" she cried, but without attempting any caress. "If I could only go and ask it myself!"
"That would be impossible!" he said quickly.

"Then you, dear husband--dear love!--go and ask it for me! Must we not--oh! do see it as I
do!--must we not somehow make it possible to be friends again, to wipe out that--that half-hour
once for all?"--she threw out her hand in an impetuous gesture. "If you go, he will feel that
is what we mean--he will understand us at once--there is nothing vile in him--nothing! Dear,
he never said a word to me I could resent till this morning. And, alack, alack! was it somehow
my fault?" She dropped her face a moment on the back of the chair she held. "How I am to play
my own part--well! I must think. But I cannot have such a thing on my heart, Aldous--I cannot!"

He was silent a moment; then he said:

"Let me understand, at least, what it is precisely that we are doing. Is the idea that it should
be made possible for us all to meet again as though nothing had happened?"

She shrank a moment from the man's common sense; then replied, controlling herself:

"Only not to leave the open sore--to help him to forget! He must know--he does know"--she held
herself proudly--"that I have no secrets from you. So that when the time comes for remembering,
for thinking it over, he will shrink from you, or hate you. Whereas, what I want"--her eyes
filled with tears--"is that he should know you--only that! I ought to have brought it about
long ago."

"Are you forgetting that I owe him this morning my political existence?"

The voice betrayed the inner passion.

"He would be the last person to remember it!" she cried. "Why not take it quite, quite simply?--behave
so as to say to him, without words, 'Be our friend--join with us in putting out of sight what
hurts us no less than you to think of. Shut the door upon the old room--pass with us into a
new!'--oh! if I could explain!"

She hid her face in her hands again.

"I understand," he said, after a long pause. "It is very like you. I am not quite sure it is
very wise. These things, to my mind, are best left to end themselves. But I promised Mrs. Allison;
and what you ask, dear, you shall have. So be it."

She lifted her head hastily, and was dismayed by the signs of agitation in him as he turned
away. She pursued him timidly, laying her hand on his arm.

"And then--"

Her voice sank to its most pleading note. He caught her hand; but she withdrew herself in haste.

"And then," she went on, struggling for a smile, "then you and I have things to settle. Do
you think I don't know that I have made all your work, and all your triumph, gall and bitterness
to you--do you think I don't know?"

She gazed at him with a passionate intensity through her tears, yet by her gesture forbidding
him to come near her. What man would not have endured such discomforts a thousand times for
such a look?

He stooped to her.

"We are to talk that out, then, when I come back?--Please give these letters to Saunders--there
is nothing of importance. I will go first to Tressady's house."

       *       *       *       *       *

Maxwell drove away through the sultry streets, his mind running on his task. It seemed to him
that politics had never put him to anything so hard. But he began to plan it with his usual
care and precision. The butler who opened the door of the Upper Brook Street house could only
say that his master was not at home.

"Shall I find him, do you imagine, at the House of Commons?"

The butler could not say. But Lady Tressady was in, though just on the point of going out.
Should he inquire?

But the visitor made it plain that he had no intention of disturbing Lady Tressady, and would
find out for himself. He left his card in the butler's hands.

"Who was that, Kenrick?" said a sharp voice behind the man as the hansom drove away. Letty
Tressady, elaborately dressed, with a huge white hat and lace parasol, was standing on the
stairs, her pale face peering out of the shadows. The butler handed her the card, and telling
him to get her a cab at once, she ran up again to the drawing-room.

Meanwhile Maxwell sped on towards Westminster, frowning over his problem. As he drove down
Whitehall the sun brightened to a naked midday heat, throwing its cloak of mists behind it.
The gilding on the Clock Tower sparkled in the light; even the dusty, airless street, with
its withered planes, was on a sudden flooded with gaiety. Two or three official or Parliamentary
acquaintances saluted the successful minister as he passed; and each was conscious of a certain
impatience with the gravity of the well-known face. That a great man should not be content
to look victory, as well as win it, seemed a kind of hypocrisy.

In the House of Commons, a few last votes and other oddments of the now dying session were
being pushed through to an accompaniment of empty benches. Tressady was not there, nor in the
library. Maxwell made his way to the upper lobby, where writing-tables and materials are provided
in the window-recesses for the use of members.

He had hardly entered the lobby before he caught sight at its further end of the long straight
chin and fair head of the man he was in quest of. And almost at the same moment, Tressady,
who was sitting writing amid a pile of letters and papers, lifted his eyes and saw Lord Maxwell
approaching.

He started, then half rose, scattering his papers. Maxwell bowed as he neared the table, then
stopped beside it, without offering his hand.

"I fear I may be disturbing you," he said, with simple but cold courtesy. "The fact is I have
come down here on an urgent matter, which may perhaps be my excuse. Could you give me twenty
minutes, in my room?"

"By all means," said Tressady. He tried to put his papers together, but to his own infinite
annoyance his hand shook. He seemed hardly to know what to do with them.

"Do not let me hurry you," said Maxwell, in the same manner. "Will you follow me at your leisure?"

"I will follow you immediately," said Tressady; "as soon as I have put these under lock and key."

His visitor departed. Tressady remained standing a moment by the table, his blue eyes, unusually
wide open, fixed absently on the river, a dark red flush overspreading the face. Then he rapidly
threw his papers together into a black bag that stood near, and walked with them to his locker
in the wall.

For an hour after he left Marcella Maxwell he had wandered blindly up and down the Green Park;
at the end of it a sudden impulse had driven him to the House, as his best refuge both from
Letty and himself. There he found waiting for him a number of letters, and a sheaf of telegrams
besides from his constituency, with which he had just begun to grapple when Maxwell interrupted
him. Some hours of hard writing and thinking might, he thought, bring him by reaction to some
notion of what to do with the next days and nights--how to take up the business of his private
life again.

Now, as he withdrew his key from the lock, in a corridor almost empty of inhabitants, abstraction
seized him once more. He leant against the wall a moment, with his hands in his pockets, seeing
her face--the tears on her cheek--feeling the texture of her dress against his lips. Barely
two hours ago! No doubt she had confided all to Maxwell in the interval. The young fellow burnt
with mingled rage and shame. This interview with the husband seemed to transform it all to
vaudeville, if not to farce. How was he to get through it with any dignity and self-command?
Moreover, a passionate resentment towards Maxwell developed itself. His telling of his secret
had been no matter for a common scandal, a vulgar jealousy. She knew that--she could not have
so misrepresented him. A sense of the situation to which he had brought himself on all sides
made his pride feel itself in the grip of something that asked his submission. Yet why, and
to whom?

He walked along through the interminable corridors towards Maxwell's room in the House of Lords,
a prey to what afterwards seemed to him the meanest moment of his life. Little knowing the
pledges that a woman had given for him, he did say to himself that Maxwell owed him much--that
he was not called upon to bear everything from a man he had given back to power. And all the
time his thoughts built a thorn-hedge about her face, her pity. Let him see them no more, not
even in the mirror of the mind. Great heaven! what harm could such as he do to her?

By the time he reached Maxwell's door he seemed to himself as hard and cool as usual. As he
entered, the minister was standing by an oriel window, overlooking the river, turning over
the contents of a despatch-box that had just been brought him. He advanced at once; and Tressady
noticed that he had already dismissed his secretary.

"Will you sit by the window?" said Maxwell. "The day promises to be extraordinarily hot."

Tressady took the seat assigned him. Maxwell's grey eye ran over the young man's figure and
bearing. Then he bent forward from a chair on the other side of a small writing-table.

"You will probably have guessed the reason of my intrusion upon you--you and I have already
discussed this troublesome affair--and the kind manner in which you treated our anxieties then--"

"Ancoats!" exclaimed Tressady, with a start he could not control. "You wish to consult me about
Ancoats?"

A flash of wonder crossed the other's mind. "He imagined--" Instinctively Maxwell's opening
mildness stiffened into a colder dignity.

"I fear we may be making an altogether improper claim upon you," he said quietly; "but this
morning, about an hour ago, Ancoats's mother came to us with the news that he had left her
two days ago, and was now discovered to be at Trouville, where he has a chalet, waiting for
this girl, of whom we all know, to join him. You will imagine Mrs. Allison's despair. The entanglement
is in itself bad enough. But she--I think you know it--is no ordinary woman, nor can she bring
any of the common philosophy of life to bear upon this matter. It seems to be sapping her very
springs of existence, and the impression she left upon myself--and upon Lady Maxwell"--he said
the words slowly--"was one of the deepest pity and sorrow. As you also know, I believe, I have
till now been able to bring some restraining influence to bear upon the girl, who is of course
not a girl, but a very much married woman, with a husband always threatening to turn up and
avenge himself upon her. There is a good man, one of those High Church clergymen who interest
themselves specially in the stage, who has helped us many times already. I have telegraphed
to him, and expect him here before long. We know that she has not yet left London, and it may
be possible again, at the eleventh hour, to stop her. But that--"

"Is not enough," said Tressady, quickly, raising his head. "You want someone to grapple with
Ancoats?"

Face and voice were those of another man--attentive, normal, sympathetic. Maxwell observed
him keenly.

"We want someone to go to Ancoats; to represent to him his mother's determination to leave
him for good if this disgraceful affair goes on; to break the shock of the girl's non-arrival
to him, if, indeed, we succeed in stopping her; and to watch him for a day or two, in case
there should be anything in the miserable talk of suicide with which he seems to have been
threatening his mother."

"Oh! Suicide! Ancoats!" said Tressady, throwing back his head.

"We rate him, apparently, much the same," said Maxwell, drily. "But it is not to be wondered
at that the mother should be differently affected. She sent you"--the speaker paused a moment--"what
seemed to me a touching message."

Tressady bent forward.

"'Tell him that I have no claim upon him--that I am ashamed to ask this of him. But he once
said some kind words to me about my son, and I know that Ancoats desired his friendship. His
help might save us. I can say no more.'"

Tressady looked up quickly, reddening involuntarily.

"Was Fontenoy there--did he agree?"

"Fontenoy agreed," said Maxwell, in the same measured voice. "In fact, you grasp our petition.
To speak frankly, my wife suggested it, and I was deputed to bear it to you. But I need not
say that we are quite prepared to find that you are not able to do what we have ventured to
ask of you, or that your engagements will not permit it."

A strange gulp rose in Tressady's throat. He understood--oh! he understood her--perfectly.

He leant back in his chair, looking through the open window to the Thames. A breeze had risen
and was breaking up the thunderous sky into gay spaces of white and blue. The river was surging
and boiling under the tide, and strings of barges were mounting with the mounting water, slipping
fast along the terrace wall. The fronts of the various buildings opposite rose in shadow against
the dazzling blue and silver of the water. Here over the river, even for this jaded London,
summer was still fresh; every mast and spar, every track of boat or steamer in the burst of
light, struck the eye with sharpness and delight.

Each line and hue printed itself on Tressady's brain. Then he turned slowly to his companion.
Maxwell sat patiently waiting for his reply; and for the first time Tressady received, as it
were, a full impression of a personality he had till now either ignored or disliked. In youth
Maxwell had never passed for a handsome man. But middle life and noble habit were every year
giving increased accent and spiritual energy to the youth's pleasant features; and Nature as
she silvered the brown hair, and drove deep the lines of thought and experience, was bringing
more than she took away. A quiet, modest fellow Maxwell would be to the end; not witty; not
brilliant; more and more content to bear the yoke of the great commonplaces of life as subtlety
and knowledge grew; saying nothing of spiritual things, only living them--yet a man, it seemed,
on whom England would more and more lay the burden of her fortunes.

Tressady gazed at him, shaken with new reverences, new compunctions. Maxwell's eyes were drawn
to his--mild, penetrating eyes, in which for an instant Tressady seemed to read what no words
would ever say to him. Then he sprang up.

"There is an afternoon train put on this month. I can catch it. Tell me, if you can, a few
more details."

Maxwell took out a half-sheet of notes from his pocket, and the two men standing together beside
the table went with care into a few matters it was well for Tressady to know. Tressady threw
a quick intelligence into his questions that inevitably recalled to Maxwell the cut-and-thrust
of his speech on the preceding evening; nor behind his rapid discussion of a vulgar business
did the constrained emotion of his manner escape his companion.

At last all was settled. At the last moment an uneasy question rose in Maxwell's mind. "Ought
we, at such a crisis, to be sending him away from his wife?" But he could not bring himself
to put it, even lightly, into words, and as it happened Tressady did not leave him in doubt.

"I am glad you caught me," he said nervously, in what seemed an awkward pause, while he looked
for his hat, forgetting where he had put it. "I was intending to leave London to-night. But
my business can very well wait till next week. Now I think I have everything."

He gathered up a new Guide-Chaix that Maxwell had put into his hand, saw that the half-sheet
of notes was safely stowed into his pocket-book, and took up his hat and stick. As he spoke,
Maxwell had remembered the situation and Mrs. Allison's remark. No doubt Tressady had proposed
to go north that night on a mission of explanation to his Market Malford constituents, and
it struck one of the most scrupulous of men with an additional pang, that he should be thus
helping to put private motives in the way of public duty. But what was done was done. And it
seemed impossible that either should speak a word of politics.

"I ought to say," said Tressady, pausing once more as they moved together towards the door,
"that I have not ultimately much hope for Mrs. Allison. If this entanglement is put aside,
there will be something else. Trouville itself, in August, I should imagine, is a place of
bonnes fortunes for the man who wants them, and Ancoats's mind runs to such things."

He spoke with a curious eagerness, like one who pleads that his good-will shall not be judged
by mere failure or success.

Maxwell raised his shoulders.

"Nothing that can happen will in the least affect our gratitude to you," he said gravely.

"Gratitude!" muttered the young man under his breath. His lip trembled. He looked uncertainly
at his companion. Maxwell did not offer his hand, yet as he opened the door for his visitor
there was a quiet cordiality and kindness in his manner that made his renewed words of thanks
sound like a strange music in Tressady's ears.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the minister was once more alone he walked back to the window, and stood looking down
thoughtfully on the gay pageant of the river. She was right--she was always right. There was
nothing vile in that young fellow, and his face had a look of suffering it pained Maxwell to
remember. Why had he personally not come to know him better? "I think too little of men, too
much of machinery," he said to himself, despondently; "unconsciously I leave the dealing with
human beings far too often to her, and then I wonder that a man sees and feels her as she is!"

Yet as he stood there in the sunshine a feeling of moral relief stole upon him, the feeling
that rewards a man who has tried to deal greatly with some common and personal strait. Some
day, not yet, he would make Tressady his friend. He calmly felt it to be within his power.

Unless the wife!--He threw up his hand, and turned back to his writing-table. What was to be
done with that letter? Had Tressady any knowledge of it? Maxwell could not conceive it possible
that he had. But, no doubt, it would come to his knowledge, as well as Maxwell's reply.

For he meant to reply, and as he glanced at the clock on his table he saw that he had just
half an hour before his clergyman-visitor arrived. Instantly, in his methodical way, he sat
down to his task, labouring it, however, with toil and difficulty, when it was once begun.

The few words he ultimately wrote ran as follows:

"Dear Lady Tressady,--Your letter was a great surprise and a great pain to me. I believe you
will recognise before long that you wrote it under a delusion, and that you have said in it
both unkind and unjust things of one who is totally incapable of wronging you or anyone else.
My wife read your letter, for she and I have no secrets. She will try and see you at once,
and I trust you will not refuse to see her. She will prove to you, I think, that you have been
giving yourself quite needless torture, for which she has no responsibility, but for which
she is none the less sorrowful and distressed.

"I have treated your letter in this way because it is impossible to ignore the pain and trouble
which drove you to write. I need not say that if it became necessary for me to write or act
in another way, I should think only of my wife. But I will trust to the effect upon you of
her own words and character; and I cannot believe that you will misconstrue the generosity
that prompts her to go to you.

"Is it not possible, also, that your misunderstanding of your husband may be in its own way
as grave as your misunderstanding of Lady Maxwell? Forgive an intrusive question, and believe me,

"Yours faithfully,

"MAXWELL."

He read it anxiously over and over, then took a hasty copy of it, and finally sealed and sent
it. He was but half satisfied with it. How was one to write such a letter without argument
or recrimination? The poor thing had a vulgar, spiteful, little soul; that was clear from her
outpouring. It was also clear that she was miserable; nor could Maxwell disguise from himself
that in a sense she had ample cause. From that hard fact, with all its repellent and unpalatable
consequences, a weaker man would by now have let his mind escape, would at any rate have begun
to minimise and make light of George Tressady's act of the morning. In Maxwell, on the contrary,
after a first movement of passionate resentment which had nothing whatever in common with ordinary
jealousy, that act was now generating a compelling and beneficent force, that made for healing
and reparation. Marcella had foreseen it, and in her pain and penitence had given the impulse.
For all things are possible to a perfect affection, working through a nature at once healthy
and strong.

Yet when Maxwell was once more established in his room at the Privy Council, overwhelmed with
letters, interviews, and all the routine of official business, those who had to do with him
noticed an unusual restlessness in their even-tempered chief. In truth, whenever his work left
him free for a moment, all sorts of questions would start up in his mind: "Is she there? Is
that woman hurting and insulting her? Can I do nothing? My love! my poor love!"

       *       *       *       *       *

But Marcella's plans so far had not prospered.

When George Tressady, after hastily despatching his most urgent business at the House, drove
up to his own door in the afternoon just in time to put his things together and catch a newly-put-on
dining-train to Paris, he found the house deserted. The butler reminded him that Letty accompanied
by Miss Tulloch had gone to Hampton Court to join a river party for the day. George remembered;
he hated the people she was to be with, and instinct told him that Cathedine would be there.

A rush of miserable worry overcame him. Ought he to be leaving her?

Then, in the darkness of the hall, he caught sight of a card lying on the table. Her card!
Amazement made him almost dizzy, while the man at his arm explained.

"Her ladyship called just after luncheon. She thought she would have found my lady in--before
she went out. But her ladyship is coming again, probably this evening, as she wished to see
Lady Tressady particularly."

Tressady gave the man directions to pack for him immediately, then took the card into his study,
and stood looking at it in a tumult of feeling. Ah! let him begone--out of her way! Oh, heavenly
goodness and compassion! It seemed to him already that an angel had trodden this dark house,
and that another air breathed in it.

That was his first thought. Then the rush of sore longing, of unbearable self-contempt, stirred
all his worser self to life again. Had she not better after all have left him and Letty alone!
What did such lives as theirs matter to her?

He ran upstairs to make his last preparations, wrote a few lines to Letty describing Mrs. Allison's
plight and the errand on which he was bound, and in half an hour was at Charing Cross.

CHAPTER XX

"Did you ring, my lady?"

"Yes. Kenrick, if Lady Maxwell calls to see me to-night, you will say, please, that I am particularly
engaged, and unable to receive anyone."

Letty Tressady had just come in from her river party. Dressed in a delicate gown of lace and
pale green chiffon, she was standing beside her writing-table with Lady Maxwell's card in her
hand. Kenrick had given it to her on her arrival, together with the message which had accompanied
it, and she had taken a few minutes to think it over. As she gave the man his order, the energy
of the small figure, as it half turned towards the door, the brightness of the eyes under the
white veil she had just thrown back, no less than the emphasis of her tone, awakened in the
butler the clear perception that neither the expected visit nor his mistress's directions were
to be taken as ordinary affairs. After he left the drawing-room, Grier passed him on the stairs.
He gave her a slight signal, and the two retired to some nether region to discuss the secrets
of their employers.

Meanwhile Letty, having turned on the electric light in the room, walked to the window and
set it half open behind the curtain. In that way she would hear the carriage approaching, it
was between eight and nine o'clock. No doubt Lady Maxwell would drive round after dinner.

Then, still holding the card lightly in her hand, she threw herself on the sofa. She was tired,
but so excited that she could not rest--first, by the memory of the day that had just passed;
still more by the thought of the rebuff she was about to administer to the great lady who had
affronted her. No doubt her letter had done its work. The remembrance of it tilled her with
an uneasy joy. Did George know of it by now? She did not care. Lady Maxwell, of course, was
coming to try and appease her, to hush it up. There had been a scene, it was to be supposed,
between her and her stiff husband. Letty gloated over the dream of it. Tears, humiliation,
reproaches, she meted them all out in plenty to the woman she hated. Nor would things end there.
Why, London was full of gossip! Harding's paragraph--for of course it was Harding's--had secured
that. How clever of him! Not a name!--not a thing that could be taken hold of!--yet so clear.
Well!--if she, Letty, was to be trampled on and set aside, at any rate other people should
suffer too.

So George had gone off to France, leaving her alone, without "Good-bye." She did not believe
a word of his excuse; and, if it were true, it was only another outrage that he should have
thought twice of such a matter at such a crisis. But it was probably a mere device of his and
hers--she would find out for what.

Her state of tension was too great to allow her to stay in the same place for more than a few
minutes. She got up, and went to the glass before the mantelpiece. Taking out the pins that
held her large Gainsborough hat, she arranged her hair with her hands, putting the curls of
the fringe in their right place, fastening up some stray ends. She had given orders, as we
have seen, to admit no one, and was presumably going to bed. Nevertheless, her behaviour was
instinctively the behaviour of one who expects a guest.

When, more or less to her satisfaction, she had restored the symmetry of the little curled
and crimped head, she took her face between her hands, and stared at her own reflection. Memories
of the party she had just left, of the hot river, the slowly filling locks, the revelry, the
champagne, danced in her mind, especially of a certain walk through a wood. She defiantly watched
the face in the glass grow red, the eyelids quiver. Then, like the tremor from some volcanic
fire far within, a shudder ran through her. She dropped her head on her hands. She hated--hated
him! Was it to-morrow evening she had told him he might come? She would go down to Ferth.

Wheels in the quiet street! Letty flew to the window like an excited child, her green and white
twinkling through the room.

A brougham, and a tall figure in black stepping slowly out of it. Letty sheltered herself behind
a curtain, held her breath, and listened.

Presently her lower lip dropped a little. What was Kenrick about? The front door had closed,
and Lady Maxwell had not re-entered her carriage.

She opened the drawing-room door with care, and was stooping over the banisters when she saw
Kenrick on the stairs. He seemed to be coming from the direction of George's study.

"What have you been doing?" she asked him in a hard under-voice, looking at him angrily. "I
told you not to let Lady Maxwell in."

"I told her, my lady, that you were engaged and could see no one. Then her ladyship asked if
she might write a few lines to you and send them up, asking when you would be able to see her.
So I showed her into Sir George's study, my lady, and she is writing at Sir George's desk."

"You should have done nothing of the sort," said Letty, sharply. "What is that letter?"

She took it from his hand before the butler, somewhat bewildered by the responsibilities of
his position, could explain that he had just found it in the letterbox, where it might have
been lying some little time, as he had heard no knock.

She let him go downstairs again, to await Lady Maxwell's exit, and herself ran back to read
her letter, her heart beating, for the address of the sender was on the envelope.

When she had finished she threw it down, half suffocating.

"So I am to be lectured and preached to besides. Good heavens! In his lofty manner, I suppose,
that people talk of. Prig--odious, insufferable prig! So I have mistaken George, have I? My
own husband! And insulted her--her! And she is actually downstairs, writing to me, in my own
house!"

She locked her hands, and began stormily to pace the room again. The image of her rival, only
a few feet from her, bending over George's table, worked in her with poisonous force. Suddenly
she swept to the bell and rang it. A door opened downstairs. She ran to the landing.

"Kenrick!"

"Yes, my lady." She heard a pause, and the soft rustle of a dress.

"Tell Lady Maxwell, please"--she struggled hard for the right, the dignified tone--"that if
it is not too late for her to stay, I am now able to see her."

She hurried back into the drawing-room and waited. Would she come? Letty's whole being was
now throbbing with one mad desire. If Kenrick let her go!

But steps approached; the door was thrown open.

Marcella Maxwell came in timidly, very pale, the dark eyes shrinking from the sudden light
of the drawing-room. She was bareheaded, and wore a long cloak of black lace over her white
evening dress. Letty's flash of thought as she saw her was twofold: first, hatred of her beauty,
then triumph in the evident nervousness with which her visitor approached her.

Without making the slightest change of position, the mistress of the house spoke first.

"Will you please tell me," she said, in her sharpest, thinnest voice, "to what I owe the honour
of this visit?"

Marcella paused half-way towards her hostess.

"I read your letter to my husband," she said quietly, though her voice shook, "and I thought
you would hardly refuse to let me speak to you about it."

"Then perhaps you will sit down," said Letty, in the same voice; and she seated herself.

If she had wished to heighten the effect of her reception by these small discourtesies she
did not succeed. Rather, Marcella's self-possession returned under them. She looked round simply
for a chair, brought one forward within speaking distance of her companion, moving once more,
in her thin, tall grace, with all that unconscious dignity Letty had so often envied and admired
from a distance.

But neither dignity nor grace made any bar to the emotion that filled her. She bent forward,
clasping her hands on her knee.

"Your letter to my husband made me so unhappy--that I could not help coming," she said, in
a tone that was all entreaty, all humbleness. "Not--of course--that it seemed to either of
us a true or just account of what had happened"--she drew herself up gently--"but it made me
realise--though indeed I had realised it before I read it--that in my friendship with your
husband I had been forgetting--forgetting those things--one ought to remember most. You will
let me put things, won't you, in my own way, as they seem to me? At Castle Luton Sir George
attracted me very much. The pleasure of talking to him there first made me wish to try and
alter some of his views--to bring him across my poor people--to introduce him to our friends.
Then, somehow, a special bond grew up between him and me with regard to this particular struggle
in which my husband and I"--she dropped her eyes that she might not see Letty's heated face--"have
been so keenly interested. But what I ought to have felt--from the very first--was, that there
could be, there ought to have been, something else added. Married people "--she spoke hurriedly,
her breath rising and falling--"are not two, but one--and my first step should have been to
come--and--and ask you to let me know you too--to find out what your feelings were, whether
you wished for a friendship--that--that I had perhaps no right to offer to Sir George alone.
I have been looking into my own heart"--her voice trembled again--"and I see that fault, that
great fault. To be excluded myself from any strong friendship my husband might make, would
be agony to me!" The frank, sudden passion of her lifted eyes sent a thrill even through Letty's
fierce and hardly, kept silence. "And that I wanted to say to you, first of all. I wronged
my own conception of what marriage should be, and you were quite, quite right to be angry!"

"Well, I think it's quite clear, isn't it, that you forgot from the beginning George had a
wife?" cried Letty, in her most insulting voice. "That certainly can't be denied. Anybody could
see that at Castle Luton!"

Marcella looked at her in perplexity. What could suggest to her how to say the right word,
touch the right chord? Would she be able to do more than satisfy her own conscience and then
go, leaving this strange little fury to make what use she pleased of her visit and her avowals?

She shaded her eyes with her hand a moment, thinking. Then she said:

"Perhaps it is of no use for me to ask you to remember how full our minds--my husband's and
mine--have been of one subject--one set of ideas. But, if I am not keeping you too long, I
should like to give you an account, from my point of view, of the friendship between Sir George
and myself. I think I can remember every talk of ours, from our first meeting in the hospital
down to--down to this morning."

"This morning!" cried Letty, springing up. "This morning! He went to you to-day?"

The little face convulsed with passion raised an intolerable distress in Marcella.

"Yes, he came to see me," she said, her dark eyes, full of pain, full, too, once more, of entreaty,
fixed upon her interrogator. "But do let me tell you! I never saw anyone in deeper trouble--trouble
about you--trouble about himself."

Letty burst into a wild laugh.

"Of course! No doubt he went to complain of me--that I flirted--that I ill-treated his mother--that
I spent too much money--and a lot of other pleasant little things. Oh! I can imagine it perfectly.
Besides that, I suppose he went to be thanked. Well, he deserved that. He has thrown away his
career to please you; so if you didn't thank him, you ought! Everybody says his position in
Parliament now isn't worth a straw--that he must resign--which is delightful, of course, for
his wife. And I saw it all from the beginning--I understood exactly what you wanted to do at
Castle Luton--only I couldn't believe then--I was only six weeks married--"

A wave of excitement and self-pity swept over her. She broke off with a sob.

Marcella's heart was wrung. She knew nothing of the real Letty Tressady. It was the wife as
such, slighted and set aside, that appealed to the imagination, the remorse of this happy,
this beloved woman. She rose quickly, she held out her hands, looking down upon the little
venomous creature who had been pouring these insults upon her.

"Don't--don't believe such things," she said, with sobbing breath. "I never wronged you consciously
for a moment. Can't you believe that Sir George and I became friends because we cared for the
same kind of questions; because I--I was full of my husband's work and everything that concerned
it; because I liked to talk about it, to win him friends. If it had ever entered my mind that
such a thing could pain and hurt you--"

"Where have you sent him to-day?" cried Letty, peremptorily, interrupting her, while she drew
her handkerchief fiercely across her eyes.

Instantly Marcella was conscious of the difficulty of explaining her own impulse and Maxwell's
action.

"Sir George told me," she said, faltering, "that he must go away from London immediately, to
think out some trouble that was oppressing him. Only a few minutes after he left our house
we heard from Mrs. Allison that she was in great distress about her son. She came, in fact,
to beg us to help her find him. I won't go into the story, of course; I am sure you know it.
My husband and I talked it over. It occurred to us that if Maxwell went to him--to Sir George--and
asked him to do us and her this great kindness of going to Ancoats and trying to bring him
back to his mother, it would put everything on a different footing. Maxwell would get to know
him,--as I had got to know him. One would find a way--to silence the foolish, unjust things--that
have been said--I suppose--I don't know--"

She paused, confused by the difficulties in her path, her cheeks hot and flushed. But the heart
knew its own innocence. She recovered herself; she came nearer.

"--If only--at the same time--I could make you realise how truly--how bitterly--I had felt
for any pain you might have suffered--if I could persuade you to look at it all--your husband's
conduct and mine--in its true light, and to believe that he cares--he must care--for nothing
in the world so much as his home--as you and your happiness!"

