The newspapers fanned the public excitement to the highest pitch, and threats of attacking
the arsenal on the one hand, and the mob of d--d rebels in Camp Jackson on the other, were
bandied about.  I tried my best to keep out of the current, and only talked freely with a few
men; among them Colonel John O'Fallon, a wealthy gentleman who resided above St. Louis.  He
daily came down to my office in Bremen, and we walked up and down the pavement by the hour,
deploring the sad condition of our country, and the seeming drift toward dissolution and anarchy.
I used also to go down to the arsenal occasionally to see Lyon, Totten, and other of my army
acquaintance, and was glad to see them making preparations to defend their post, if not to
assume the offensive.

The bombardment of Fort Sumter, which was announced by telegraph, began April 12th, and ended
on the 14th.  We then knew that the war was actually begun, and though the South was openly,
manifestly the aggressor, yet her friends and apologists insisted that she was simply acting
on a justifiable defensive, and that in the forcible seizure of, the public forts within her
limits the people were acting with reasonable prudence and foresight.  Yet neither party seemed
willing to invade, or cross the border.  Davis, who ordered the bombardment of Sumter, knew
the temper of his people well, and foresaw that it would precipitate the action of the border
States; for almost immediately Virginia, North Carolina, Arkansas, and Tennessee, followed
the lead of the cotton States, and conventions were deliberating in Kentucky and Missouri.

On the night of Saturday, April 6th, I received the following, dispatch:

Washington,  April 6,1861.

Major W. T. Sherman:

Will you accept the chief clerkship of the War Department? We will make you assistant Secretary
of War when Congress meets.

M. Blair, Postmaster-General.

To which I replied by telegraph, Monday morning; "I cannot accept;" and by mail as follows:

Monday, April 8, 1861. Office of the St. Louis Railroad Company.

Hon. M. Blair, Washington, D. C.

I received, about nine o'clock Saturday night, your telegraph dispatch, which I have this moment
answered, "I cannot accept."

I have quite a large family, and when I resigned my place in Louisiana, on account of secession,
I had no time to lose; and, therefore, after my hasty visit to Washington, where I saw no chance
of employment, I came to St. Louis, have accepted a place in this company, have rented a house,
and incurred other obligations, so that I am not at liberty to change. 

Another cause was the difference concluded in soil. The soil of the South was favorable to the growth of
cotton, tobacco, rice, and sugar, the cultivation of which crops
necessitate large forces of concentrated and organized labor, which
the slaves supplied.

Yours truly,

W.T. SHERMAN

I was afterward told that this letter gave offense, and that some of Mr. Lincoln's cabinet
concluded that I too would prove false to the country.

