Life in the Clearings versus the Bush

by Mrs. Moodie

Author of "Roughing it in the Bush," &c.

  "I sketch from Nature, and the draught is true.

               TO

JOHN WEDDERBURN DUNBAR MOODIE, ESQ.

    SHERRIFF OF THE COUNTY OF HASTINGS,

           UPPER CANADA,

  THIS WORK IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED,

        BY HIS ATTACHED FRIEND

             AND WIFE,

                       SUSANNA MOODIE

Contents

        Introduction
      I Belleville
     II Local Improvements--Sketches of Society
    III Free Schools--Thoughts on Education
     IV Amusements
      V Trials of a Travelling Musician
     VI The Singing Master
    VII Camp Meetings
   VIII Wearing Mourning for the Dead
     IX Odd Characters
      X Grace Marks
     XI Michael Macbride
    XII Jeanie Burns
   XIII Lost Children
    XIV Toronto
     XV Lunatic Asylum
    XVI Provincial Agricultural Show
   XVII Niagara
  XVIII Goat Island
    XIX Conclusion

INTRODUCTION

  "Dear foster-mother, on whose ample breast
   The hungry still find food, the weary rest;
   The child of want that treads thy happy shore,
   Shall feel the grasp of poverty no more;
   His honest toil meet recompense can claim,
   And Freedom bless him with a freeman's name!"
                                            S.M.

In our work of "Roughing it in the Bush," I endeavoured to draw a picture of Canadian life,
as I found it twenty years ago, in the Backwoods. My motive in giving such a melancholy narrative
to the British public, was prompted by the hope of deterring well-educated people, about to
settle in this colony, from entering upon a life for which they were totally unfitted by their
previous pursuits and habits.

To persons unaccustomed to hard labour, and used to the comforts and luxuries deemed indispensable
to those moving in the middle classes at home, a settlement in the bush can offer few advantages.
It has proved the ruin of hundreds and thousands who have ventured their all in this hazardous
experiment; nor can I recollect a single family of the higher class, that have come under my
own personal knowledge, that ever realised an independence, or bettered their condition, by
taking up wild lands in remote localities; while volumes might be filled with failures, even
more disastrous than our own, to prove the truth of my former statements.

But while I have endeavoured to point out the error of gentlemen bringing delicate women and
helpless children to toil in the woods, and by so doing excluding them from all social intercourse
with persons in their own rank, and depriving the younger branches of the family of the advantages
of education, which, in the vicinity of towns and villages, can be enjoyed by the children
of the poorest emigrant, I have never said anything against the REAL benefits to be derived
from a judicious choice of settlement in this great and rising country.

God forbid that any representations of mine should deter one of my countrymen from making this
noble and prosperous colony his future home. But let him leave to the hardy labourer the place
assigned to him by Providence, nor undertake, upon limited means, the task of pioneer in the
great wilderness. Men of independent fortune can live anywhere. If such prefer a life in the
woods, to the woods let them go; but they will soon find out that they could have employed
the means in their power in a far more profitable manner than in chopping down trees in the bush.

There are a thousand more advantageous ways in which a man of property may invest his capital,
than by burying himself and his family in the woods. There never was a period in the history
of the colony that offered greater inducements to men of moderate means to emigrate to Canada
than the present. The many plank-roads and railways in the course of construction in the province,
while they afford high and remunerative wages to the working classes, will amply repay the
speculator who embarks a portion of his means in purchasing shares in them. And if he is bent
upon becoming a Canadian farmer, numbers of fine farms, in healthy and eligible situations,
and in the vicinity of good markets, are to be had on moderate terms, that would amply repay
the cultivator for the money and labour expended upon them.

There are thousands of independent proprietors of this class in Canada--men who move in the
best society, and whose names have a political weight in the country. Why gentlemen from Britain
should obstinately crowd to the Backwoods, and prefer the coarse, hard life of an axeman, to
that of a respectable landed proprietor in a civilised part of the country, has always been
to me a matter of surprise; for a farm under cultivation can always be purchased for less money
than must necessarily be expended upon clearing and raising buildings upon a wild lot.

Many young men are attracted to the Backwoods by the facilities they present for hunting and
fishing. The wild, free life of the hunter, has for an ardent and romantic temperament an inexpressible
charm. But hunting and fishing, however fascinating as a wholesome relaxation from labour,
will not win bread, or clothe a wife and shivering little ones; and those who give themselves
entirely up to such pursuits, soon add to these profitless accomplishments the bush vices of
smoking and drinking, and quickly throw off those moral restraints upon which their respectability
and future welfare mainly depend.

The bush is the most demoralizing place to which an anxious and prudent parent could send a
young lad. Freed suddenly from all parental control, and exposed to the contaminating influence
of broken-down gentlemen loafers, who hide their pride and poverty in the woods, he joins in
their low debauchery, and falsely imagines that, by becoming a blackguard, he will be considered
an excellent backwoodsman.

How many fine young men have I seen beggared and ruined in the bush! It is too much the custom
in the woods for the idle settler, who will not work, to live upon the new comer as long as
he can give him good fare and his horn of whisky. When these fail, farewell to your good-hearted,
roystering friends; they will leave you like a swarm of musquitoes, while you fret over your
festering wounds, and fly to suck the blood of some new settler, who is fool enough to believe
their offers of friendship.

The dreadful vice of drunkenness, of which I shall have occasion to speak hereafter, is nowhere
displayed in more revolting colours, or occurs more frequently, than in the bush; nor is it
exhibited by the lower classes in so shameless a manner as by the gentlemen settlers, from
whom a better example might be expected. It would not be difficult to point out the causes
which too often lead to these melancholy results. Loss of property, incapacity for hard labour,
yielding the mind to low and degrading vices, which destroy self-respect and paralyse honest
exertion, and the annihilation of those extravagant hopes that false statements, made by interested
parties, had led them to entertain of fortunes that might be realised in the woods: these are
a few among the many reasons that could be given for the number of victims that yearly fill
a drunkard's dishonourable grave.

At the period when the greatest portion of "Roughing it in the Bush" was written, I was totally
ignorant of life in Canada, as it existed in the towns and villages. Thirteen years' residence
in one of the most thriving districts in the Upper Province has given me many opportunities
of becoming better acquainted with the manners and habits of her busy, bustling population,
than it was possible for me ever to obtain in the green prison of the woods.

Since my residence in a settled part of the country, I have enjoyed as much domestic peace
and happiness as ever falls to the lot of poor humanity. Canada has become almost as dear to
me as my native land; and the homesickness that constantly preyed upon me in the Backwoods,
has long ago yielded to the deepest and most heartfelt interest in the rapidly increasing prosperity
and greatness of the country of my adoption,--the great foster-mother of that portion of the
human family, whose fatherland, however dear to them, is unable to supply them with bread.

To the honest sons of labour Canada is, indeed, an El Dorado--a land flowing with milk and
honey; for they soon obtain that independence which the poor gentleman struggles in vain to
realise by his own labour in the woods.

The conventional prejudices that shackle the movements of members of the higher classes in
Britain are scarcely recognised in Canada; and a man is at liberty to choose the most profitable
manner of acquiring wealth, without the fear of ridicule and the loss of caste.

The friendly relations which now exist between us and our enterprising, intelligent American
neighbours, have doubtless done much to produce this amalgamation of classes. The gentleman
no longer looks down with supercilious self-importance on the wealthy merchant, nor does the
latter refuse to the ingenious mechanic the respect due to him as a man. A more healthy state
pervades Canadian society than existed here a few years ago, when party feeling ran high, and
the professional men and office holders visited exclusively among themselves, affecting airs
of aristocratic superiority, which were perfectly absurd in a new country, and which gave great
offence to those of equal wealth who were not admitted into their clique. Though too much of
this spirit exists in the large cities, such as Quebec, Montreal, and Toronto, it would not
be tolerated in the small district towns and villages, where a gentleman could not take a surer
method of making himself unpopular than by exhibiting this feeling to his fellow-townsmen.

I have been repeatedly asked, since the publication of "Roughing it in the Bush," to give an
account of the present state of society in the colony, and to point out its increasing prosperity
and commercial advantages; but statistics are not my forte, nor do I feel myself qualified
for such an arduous and important task. My knowledge of the colony is too limited to enable
me to write a comprehensive work on a subject of vital consequence, which might involve the
happiness of others. But what I do know I will endeavour to sketch with a light pencil; and
if I cannot convey much useful information, I will try to amuse the reader; and by a mixture
of prose and poetry compile a small volume, which may help to while away an idle hour, or fill
up the blanks of a wet day.

Belleville, Canada West,
    Nov. 24th, 1852.

Indian Summer.

  By the purple haze that lies
    On the distant rocky height,
  By the deep blue of the skies,
    By the smoky amber light,
  Through the forest arches streaming.
  Where nature on her throne sits dreaming,
  And the sun is scarcely gleaming
    Through the cloudlet's snowy white,
  Winter's lovely herald greets us,
  Ere the ice-crown'd tyrant meets us.

  A mellow softness fills the air--
    No breeze on wanton wing steals by,
  To break the holy quiet there,
    Or make the waters fret and sigh.
  Or the golden alders shiver,
  That bend to kiss the placid river,
  Flowing on and on for ever;
    But the little waves seem sleeping,
    O'er the pebbles slowly creeping,
    That last night were flashing, leaping,
  Driven by the restless breeze,
  In lines of foam beneath yon trees.

  Dress'd in robes of gorgeous hue--
    Brown and gold with crimson blent,
  The forest to the waters blue
    Its own enchanting tints has lent.
  In their dark depths, life-like glowing,
  We see a second forest growing,
  Each pictur'd leaf and branch bestowing
    A fairy grace on that twin wood,
    Mirror'd within the crystal flood.

  'Tis pleasant now in forest shades;--
    The Indian hunter strings his bow
  To track, through dark entangled glades,
    The antler'd deer and bounding doe;
  Or launch at night his birch canoe,
    To spear the finny tribes that dwell
  On sandy bank, in weedy cell,
    Or pool the fisher knows right well,--
  Seen by the red and livid glow
  Of pine-torch at his vessel's bow.

  This dreamy Indian summer-day
    Attunes the soul to tender sadness:
  We love, but joy not in the ray,--
    It is not summer's fervid gladness,
  But a melancholy glory
    Hov'ring brightly round decay,
  Like swan that sings her own sad story,
    Ere she floats in death away.

  The day declines.--What splendid dyes,
    In flicker'd waves of crimson driven,
  Float o'er the saffron sea, that lies
    Glowing within the western heaven!
    Ah, it is a peerless even!
  See, the broad red sun has set,
  But his rays are quivering yet
  Through nature's veil of violet,
  Streaming bright o'er lake and hill;
  But earth and forest lie so still--
  We start, and check the rising tear,
  'Tis beauty sleeping on her bier.

LIFE IN THE CLEARINGS

VERSUS THE BUSH

CHAPTER I

Belleville

  "The land of our adoption claims
     Our highest powers,--our firmest trust--
   May future ages blend our names
     With hers, when we shall sleep in dust.
   Land of our sons!--last-born of earth,
     A mighty nation nurtures thee;
   The first in moral power and worth,--
     Long mayst thou boast her sovereignty!

   Union is strength, while round the boughs
     Of thine own lofty maple-tree;
   The threefold wreath of Britain flows,
     Twined with the graceful fleur-de-lis;
   A chaplet wreathed mid smiles and tears,
     In which all hues of glory blend;
   Long may it bloom for future years,
     And vigour to thy weakness lend."

Year after year, during twenty years' residence in the colony, I had indulged the hope of one
day visiting the Falls of Niagara, and year after year, for twenty long years, I was doomed
to disappointment.

For the first ten years, my residence in the woods of Douro, my infant family, and last, not
least, among the list of objections, that great want,--the want of money,--placed insuperable
difficulties in the way of my ever accomplishing this cherished wish of my heart.

The hope, resigned for the present, was always indulged as a bright future--a pleasant day-dream--an
event which at some unknown period, when happier days should dawn upon us, might take place;
but which just now was entirely out of the question.

When the children were very importunate for a new book or toy, and I had not the means of gratifying
them, I used to silence them by saying that I would buy that and many other nice things for
them when "our money cart came home."

During the next ten years, this all-important and anxiously anticipated vehicle did not arrive.
The children did not get their toys, and my journey to Niagara was still postponed to an indefinite
period.

Like a true daughter of romance, I could not banish from my mind the glorious ideal I had formed
of this wonder of the world; but still continued to speculate about the mighty cataract, that
sublime "thunder of waters," whose very name from childhood had been music to my ears.

Ah, Hope! what would life be, stripped of thy encouraging smiles, that teach us to look behind
the dark clouds of to-day for the golden beams that are to gild the morrow. To those who have
faith in thy promises, the most extravagant fictions are possible; and the unreal becomes material
and tangible. The artist who placed thee upon the rock with an anchor for a leaning post, could
never have experienced any of thy vagrant propensities. He should have invested thee with the
rainbow of Iris, the winged feet of Mercury, and the upward pointing finger of Faith; and as
for thy footstool, it should be a fleecy white cloud, changing its form with the changing breeze.

Yet this hope of mine, of one day seeing the Falls of Niagara, was, after all, a very enduring
hope; for though I began to fear that it never would be realized, yet, for twenty years, I
never gave it up entirely; and Patience, who always sits at the feet of Hope, was at length
rewarded by her sister's consenting smile.

During the past summer I was confined, by severe indisposition, almost entirely to the house.
The obstinate nature of my disease baffled the skill of a very clever medical attendant, and
created alarm and uneasiness in my family: and I entertained small hopes of my own recovery.

Dr. L---, as a last resource, recommended change of air and scene; a remedy far more to my
taste than the odious drugs from which I had not derived the least benefit. Ill and languid
as I was, Niagara once more rose before my mental vision, and I exclaimed, with a thrill of
joy, "The time is come at last--I shall yet see it before I die."

My dear husband was to be the companion of my long journey in search of health. Our simple
arrangements were soon made, and on the 7th of September we left Belleville in the handsome
new steam-boat, "The Bay of Quinte," for Kingston.

The afternoon was cloudless, the woods just tinged with their first autumnal glow, and the
lovely bay, and its fairy isles, never appeared more enchanting in my eyes. Often as I had
gazed upon it in storm and shine, its blue transparent waters seemed to smile upon me more
lovingly than usual. With affectionate interest I looked long and tenderly upon the shores
we were leaving. There stood my peaceful, happy home; the haven of rest to which Providence
had conducted me after the storms and trials of many years. Within the walls of that small
stone cottage, peeping forth from its screen of young hickory trees, I had left three dear
children,--God only could tell whether we should ever meet on earth again: I knew that their
prayers would follow me on my long journey, and the cherub Hope was still at my side, to whisper
of happy hours and restored health and spirits. I blessed God, for the love of those young
kindred hearts, and for having placed their home in such a charming locality.

Next to the love of God, the love of nature may be regarded as the purest and holiest feeling
of the human breast. In the outward beauty of his creation, we catch a reflection of the divine
image of the Creator, which refines the intellect, and lifts the soul upward to Him. This innate
perception of the beautiful, however, is confined to no rank or situation, but is found in
the most barren spots, and surrounded by the most unfavourable circumstances; wherever the
sun shines and warms, or the glory of the moon and stars can be seen at night, the children
of genius will find a revelation of God in their beams. But there is not a doubt that those
born and brought up among scenes of great natural sublimity and beauty, imbibe this feeling
in a larger degree, and their minds are more easily imbued with the glorious colouring of romance,--the
inspired visions of the poet.

Dear patient reader! whether of British or Canadian origin, as I wish to afford you all the
amusement in my power, deign to accompany me on my long journey. Allow me a woman's privilege
of talking of all sorts of things by the way. Should I tire you with my desultory mode of conversation,
bear with me charitably, and take into account the infirmities incidental to my gossiping sex
and age. If I dwell too long upon some subjects, do not call me a bore, or vain and trifling,
if I pass too lightly over others. The little knowledge I possess, I impart freely, and wish
that it was more profound and extensive, for your sake.

Come, and take your seat with me on the deck of the steamer; and as we glide over the waters
of this beautiful Bay of Quinte, I will make you acquainted with every spot worthy of note
along its picturesque shores.

An English lady, writing to me not long ago, expressed her weariness of my long stories about
the country of my adoption, in the following terms:--"Don't fill your letters to me with descriptions
of Canada. Who, in England, thinks anything of Canada!"

Here the pride so common to the inhabitants of the favoured isles spoke out. This is perhaps
excusable in those who boast that they belong to a country that possesses, in an eminent degree,
the attributes bestowed by old Jacob on his first-born,--"the excellency of dignity, and the
excellency of power." But, to my own thinking, it savoured not a little of arrogance, and still
more of ignorance, in the fair writer; who, being a woman of talent, should have known better.
A child is not a man, but his progress is regarded with more attention on that account; and
his future greatness is very much determined by the progress he makes in his youth.

To judge Canada by the same standard, she appears to be a giant for her years, and well worthy
the most serious contemplation. Many are the weary, overtasked minds in that great, wealthy,
and powerful England, that turn towards this flourishing colony their anxious thoughts, and
would willingly exchange the golden prime of the mother country for the healthy, vigorous young
strength of this, her stalwart child, and consider themselves only too happy in securing a
home upon these free and fertile shores.

Be not discouraged, brave emigrant. Let Canada still remain the bright future in your mind,
and hasten to convert your present day-dream into reality. The time is not far distant when
she shall be the theme of many tongues, and the old nations of the world will speak of her
progress with respect and admiration. Her infancy is past, she begins to feel her feet, to
know her own strength, and see her way clearly through the wilderness. Child as you may deem
her, she has already battled bravely for her own rights, and obtained the management of her
own affairs. Her onward progress is certain. There is no if in her case. She possesses within
her own territory all the elements of future prosperity, and she must be great!

The men who throng her marts, and clear her forests, are workers, not dreamers,--who have already
realized Solomon's pithy proverb, "In all labour is profit;" and their industry has imbued
them with a spirit of independence which cannot fail to make them a free and enlightened people.

An illustration of the truth of what I advance, can be given in the pretty town we are leaving
on the north side of the bay. I think you will own with me that your eyes have seldom rested
upon a spot more favoured by Nature, or one that bids fairer to rise to great wealth and political
importance.

Sixty years ago, the spot that Belleville now occupies was in the wilderness; and its rapid,
sparkling river and sunny upland slopes (which during the lapse of ages have formed a succession
of banks to the said river), were only known to the Indian hunter and the white trader.

Where you see those substantial stone wharfs, and the masts of those vessels, unloading their
valuable cargoes to replenish the stores of the wealthy merchants in the town, a tangled cedar
swamp spread its dark, unwholesome vegetation into the bay, completely covering with an impenetrable
jungle those smooth verdant plains, now surrounded with neat cottages and gardens.

Of a bright summer evening (and when is a Canadian summer evening otherwise?) those plains
swarm with happy, healthy children, who assemble there to pursue their gambols beyond the heat
and dust of the town; or to watch with eager eyes the young men of the place engaged in the
manly old English game of cricket, with whom it is, in their harmless boasting, "Belleville
against Toronto-Cobourg; Kingston, the whole world."

The editor of a Kingston paper once had the barbarity to compare these valiant champions of
the bat and ball to "singed cats--ugly to look at, but very devils to go."

Our lads have never forgiven the insult; and should the said editor ever show his face upon
their ground, they would kick him off with as little ceremony as they would a spent ball.

On that high sandy ridge that overlooks the town eastward--where the tin roof of the Court
House, a massy, but rather tasteless building, and the spires of four churches catch the rays
of the sun--a tangled maze of hazel bushes, and wild plum and cherry, once screened the Indian
burying-ground, and the children of the red hunter sought for strawberries among the long grass
and wild flowers that flourish profusely in that sandy soil.

Would that you could stand with me on that lofty eminence and look around you! The charming
prospect that spreads itself at your feet would richly repay you for toiling up the hill.

We will suppose ourselves standing among the graves in the burying-ground of the English church;
the sunny heavens above us, the glorious waters of the bay, clasping in their azure belt three-fourths
of the landscape, and the quiet dead sleeping at our feet.

The white man has so completely supplanted his red brother, that he has appropriated the very
spot that held his bones; and in a few years their dust will mingle together, although no stone
marks the grave where the red man sleeps.

From this churchyard you enjoy the finest view of the town and surrounding country; and, turn
your eyes which way you will, they cannot fail to rest on some natural object of great interest
and beauty.

The church itself is but a homely structure; and has always been to me a great eyesore. It
is to be regretted that the first inhabitants of the place selected their best and most healthy
building sites for the erection of places of worship. Churches and churchyards occupy the hills
from whence they obtain their springs of fresh water,--and such delicious water! They do not
at present feel any ill-consequences arising from this error of judgment; but the time will
come, as population increases, and the dead accumulate, when these burying-grounds, by poisoning
the springs that flow through them, will materially injure the health of the living.

The English church was built many years ago, partly of red brick burnt in the neighbourhood,
and partly of wood coloured red to make up the deficiency of the costlier material. This seems
a shabby saving, as abundance of brick-earth of the best quality abounds in the same hill,
and the making of bricks forms a very lucrative and important craft to several persons in the town.

Belleville was but a small settlement on the edge of the forest, scarcely deserving the name
of a village, when this church first pointed its ugly tower towards heaven. Doubtless its founders
thought they had done wonders when they erected this humble looking place of worship; but now,
when their descendants have become rich, and the village of log-huts and frame buildings has
grown into a populous, busy, thriving town, and this red, tasteless building is too small to
accommodate its congregation, it should no longer hold the height of the hill, but give place
to a larger and handsomer edifice.

Behold its Catholic brother on the other side of the road; how much its elegant structure and
graceful spire adds to the beauty of the scene. Yet the funds for rearing that handsome building,
which is such an ornament to the town, were chiefly derived from small subscriptions, drawn
from the earnings of mechanics, day-labourers, and female servants. If the Church of England
were supported throughout the colony, on the voluntary principle, we should soon see fine stone
churches, like St. Michael, replacing these decaying edifices of wood, and the outcry about
the ever-vexed question of the Clergy Reserves, would be merged in her increased influence
and prosperity.

The deep-toned, sonorous bell, that fills the steeple of the Catholic church, which cost, I
have been told, seven hundred pounds, and was brought all the way from Spain, was purchased
by the voluntary donations of the congregation. This bell is remarkable for its fine tone,
which can be heard eight miles into the country, and as far as the village of Northport, eleven
miles distant, on the other side of the bay. There is a solemn grandeur in the solitary voice
of the magnificent bell, as it booms across the valley in which the town lies, and reverberates
among the distant woods and hills, which has a very imposing effect.

A few years ago the mechanics in the town entered into an agreement that they would only work
from six to six during the summer months, and from seven till five in the winter, and they
offered to pay a certain sum to the Catholic church for tolling the bell at the said hours.
The Catholic workmen who reside in or near the town, adhere strictly to this rule, and, if
the season is ever so pressing, they obstinately refuse to work before or after the stated
time. I have seen, on our own little farm, the mower fling down his scythe in the swathe, and
the harvest-man his sickle in the ridge, the moment the bell tolled for six.

In fact, the bell in this respect is looked upon as a great nuisance; and the farmers in the
country refuse to be guided by it in the hours allotted for field labour; as they justly remark
that the best time for hard work in a hot country is before six in the morning, and after the
heat of the day in the evening.

When the bell commences to toll there is a long pause between each of the first four strokes.
This is to allow the pious Catholic time for crossing himself and saying a short prayer.

How much of the ideal mingles with this worship! No wonder that the Irish, who are such an
imaginative people, should cling to it with such veneration. Would any other creed suit them
as well? It is a solemn thing to step into their churches, and witness the intensity of their
devotions. Reason never raises a doubt to shake the oneness of their faith. They receive it
on the credit of their priests, and their credulity is as boundless as their ignorance. Often
have I asked the poor Catholics in my employ why such and such days were holy days? They could
seldom tell me, but said that "the priest told them to keep them holy, and to break them would
be a deadly sin."

I cannot but respect their child-like trust, and the reverence they feel for their spiritual
teachers; nor could I ever bring myself to believe that a conscientious Catholic was in any
danger of rejection from the final bar. He has imposed upon himself a heavier yoke than the
Saviour kindly laid upon him, and has enslaved himself with a thousand superstitious observances
which to us appear absurd; but his sincerity should awaken in us an affectionate interest in
his behalf, not engender the bitter hatred which at present forms an adamantine barrier between
us. If the Protestant would give up a little of his bigotry, and the Catholic a part of his
superstition, and they would consent to meet each other half way, as brothers of one common
manhood, inspired by the same Christian hope, and bound to the same heavenly country, we should
no longer see the orange banner flaunting our streets on the twelfth of July, and natives of
the same island provoking each other to acts of violence and bloodshed.

These hostile encounters are of yearly occurrence in the colony, and are justly held in abhorrence
by the pious and thinking portion of the population of either denomination. The government
has for many years vainly endeavoured to put them down, but they still pollute with their moral
leprosy the free institutions of the country, and effectually prevent any friendly feeling
which might grow up between the members of these rival and hostile creeds.

In Canada, where all religions are tolerated, it appears a useless aggravation of an old national
grievance to perpetuate the memory of the battle of the Boyne. What have we to do with the
hatreds and animosities of a more barbarous age. These things belong to the past: "Let the
dead bury their dead," and let us form for ourselves a holier and truer present. The old quarrel
between Irish Catholics and Protestants should have been sunk in the ocean when they left their
native country to find a home, unpolluted by the tyrannies of bygone ages, in the wilds of Canada.

The larger portion of our domestics are from Ireland, and, as far as my experience goes, I
have found the Catholic Irish as faithful and trustworthy as the Protestants. The tendency
to hate belongs to the race, not to the religion, or the Protestant would not exhibit the same
vindictive spirit which marks his Catholic brother. They break and destroy more than the Protestants,
but that springs from the reckless carelessness of their character more than from any malice
against their employers, if you may judge by the bad usage they give their own household goods
and tools. The principle on which they live is literally to care as little as possible for
the things of to-day, and to take no thought at all for the morrow.

"Shure, Ma'am, it can be used," said an Irish girl to me, after breaking the spout out of an
expensive china jug, "It is not a hair the worse!" She could not imagine that a mutilated object
could occasion the least discomfort to those accustomed to order and neatness in their household
arrangements.

The Irish female servants are remarkably chaste in their language and deportment. You are often
obliged to find fault with them for gross acts of neglect and wastefulness, but never for using
bad language. They may spoil your children by over-indulgence, but they never corrupt their
morals by loose conversation.

An Irish girl once told me, with beautiful simplicity, "that every bad word a woman uttered,
made the blessed Virgin blush."

A girl becoming a mother before marriage is regarded as a dreadful calamity by her family,
and she seldom, if ever, gets one of her own countrymen to marry her with this stain on her
character.

How different is the conduct of the female peasantry in the eastern counties of England, who
unblushingly avow their derelictions from the paths of virtue. The crime of infanticide, so
common there, is almost unknown among the Irish. If the priest and the confessional are able
to restrain the lower orders from the commission of gross crime, who shall say that they are
without their use? It is true that the priest often exercises his power over his flock in a
manner which would appear to a Protestant to border on the ludicrous.

A girl who lived with a lady of my acquaintance, gave the following graphic account of an exhortation
delivered by the priest at the altar. I give it in her own words:--

"Shure, Ma'am, we got a great scould from the praste the day." "Indeed, Biddy, what did he
scold you for?" "Faix, and it's not meself that he scoulded at all, at all, but Misther Peter
N--- and John L---, an' he held them up as an example to the whole church. 'Peter N---' says
he, 'you have not been inside this church before to-day for the last three months, and you
have not paid your pew-rent for the last two years. But, maybe, you have got the fourteen dollars
in your pocket at this moment of spaking; or maybe you have spint it in buying pig-iron to
make gridirons, in order to fry your mate of a Friday; and when your praste comes to visit
you, if he does not see it itself, he smells it. And you, John L---, Alderman L---, are not
six days enough in the week for work and pastime, that you must go hunting of hares on a holiday?
And pray how many hares did you catch, Alderman John?'"

The point of the last satire lay in the fact that the said Alderman John was known to be an
ambitious, but very poor, sportsman; which made the allusion to the hares he had shot the unkindest
cut of all.

Such an oration from a Protestant minister would have led his congregation to imagine that
their good pastor had lost his wits; but I have no doubt that it was eminently successful in
abstracting the fourteen dollars from the pocket of the dilatory Peter N---, and in preventing
Alderman John from hunting hares on a holiday for the time to come.

Most of the Irish priests possess a great deal of humour, which always finds a response in
their mirth-loving countrymen, to whom wit is a quality of native growth.

"I wish you a happy death, Pat S---," said Mr. R---, the jolly, black-browed priest of P---,
after he had married an old servant of ours, who had reached the patriarchal age of sixty-eight,
to an old woman of seventy.

"D--- clear of it!" quoth Pat, smiting his thigh, with a look of inimitable drollery,--such
a look of broad humour as can alone twinkle from the eyes of an emeralder of that class. Pat
was a prophet; in less than six months he brought the body of the youthful bride in a waggon
to the house of the said priest to be buried, and, for aught I know to the contrary, the old
man is living still, and very likely to treat himself to a third wife.

I was told two amusing anecdotes of the late Bishop Macdonald; a man whose memory is held in
great veneration in the province, which I will give you here.

The old bishop was crossing the Rice Lake in a birch bark canoe, in company with Mr. R---,
the Presbyterian minister of Peterboro'; the day was rather stormy, and the water rough for
such a fragile conveyance. The bishop, who had been many years in the country, knew there was
little danger to be apprehended if they sat still, and he had perfect reliance in the skill
of their Indian boatman. Not so Mr. R---, he had only been a few months in the colony, and
this was the first time he had ever ventured upon the water in such a tottleish machine. Instead
of remaining quietly seated in the bottom of the canoe, he endeavoured to start to his feet,
which would inevitably have upset it. This rash movement was prevented by the bishop, who forcibly
pulled him down into a sitting posture, exclaiming, as he did so, "Keep still, my good sir;
if you, by your groundless fears, upset the canoe, your protestant friends will swear that
the old papist drowned the presbyterian."

One hot, sultry July evening, the celebrated Dr. Dunlop called to have a chat with the bishop,
who, knowing the doctor's weak point, his fondness for strong drinks, and his almost rabid
antipathy to water, asked him if he would take a draught of Edinburgh ale, as he had just received
a cask in a present from the old country. The doctor's thirst grew to a perfect drought, and
he exclaimed that nothing at that moment could afford him greater pleasure.

The bell was rung; the spruce, neat servant girl appeared, and was forthwith commissioned to
take the bishop's own silver tankard and draw the thirsty doctor a pint of ale.

The girl quickly returned: the impatient doctor grasped the nectarian draught, and, without
glancing into the tankard--for the time

  "Was that soft hour 'twixt summer's eve and close,"--

emptied the greater part of its contents down his throat. A spasmodic contortion and a sudden
rush to the open window surprised the hospitable bishop, who had anticipated a great treat
for his guest: "My dear sir," he cried, "what can be the matter!"

"Oh, that diabolical stuff!" groaned the doctor. "I am poisoned."

"Oh, never fear," said the bishop, examining the liquid that still remained in the tankard,
and bursting into a hearty laugh, "It may not agree with a Protestant's stomach, but believe
me, dear doctor, you never took such a wholesome drink in your life before. I was lately sent
from Rome a cask of holy water,--it stands in the same cellar with the ale,--I put a little
salt into it, in order to preserve it during this hot weather, and the girl, by mistake, has
given you the consecrated water instead of the ale."

"Oh, curse her!" cried the tortured doctor. "I wish it was in her stomach instead of mine!"

The bishop used to tell this story with great glee whenever Dr. Dunlop and his eccentric habits
formed the theme of conversation.

That the Catholics do not always act with hostility towards their Protestant brethren, the
following anecdote, which it gives me great pleasure to relate, will sufficiently show:--

In the December of 1840 we had the misfortune to be burnt out, and lost a great part of our
furniture, clothing, and winter stores. Poor as we then were, this could not be regarded in
any other light but as a great calamity. During the confusion occasioned by the fire, and,
owing to the negligence of a servant to whose care he was especially confided, my youngest
child, a fine boy of two years old, was for some time missing. The agony I endured for about
half an hour I shall never forget. The roaring flames, the impending misfortune that hung over
us, was forgotten in the terror that shook my mind lest he had become a victim to the flames.
He was at length found by a kind neighbour in the kitchen of the burning building, whither
he had crept from among the crowd, and was scarcely rescued before the roof fell in.

This circumstance shook my nerves so completely that I gladly accepted the offer of a female
friend to leave the exciting scene, and make her house my home until we could procure another.

I was sitting at her parlour window, with the rescued child on my lap, whom I could not bear
for a moment out of my sight, watching the smoking brands that had once composed my home, and
sadly pondering over our untoward destiny, when Mrs. ---'s servant told me that a gentleman
wanted to see me in the drawing-room.

With little Johnnie still in my arms I went to receive the visitor; and found the Rev. Father
B---, the worthy Catholic priest, waiting to receive me.

At that time I knew very little of Father B---. Calls had been exchanged, and we had been much
pleased with his courteous manners and racy Irish wit. I shall never forget the kind, earnest
manner in which he condoled with me on our present misfortune. He did not, however, confine
his sympathy to words, but offered me the use of his neat cottage until we could provide ourselves
with another house.

"You know," he said, with a benevolent smile, "I have no family to be disturbed by the noise
of the children; and if you will accept the temporary home I offer you, it is entirely at your
service; and," he continued, lowering his voice, "if the sheriff is in want of money to procure
necessaries for his family, I can supply him until such time as he is able to repay me."

This was truly noble, and I thanked him with tears in my eyes. We did not accept the generous
offer of this good Samaritan; but we have always felt a grateful remembrance of his kindness.
Mr. B--- had been one of the most active among the many gentlemen who did their best in trying
to save our property from the flames, a great portion of which was safely conveyed to the street.
But here a system of pillage was carried on by the heartless beings, who regard fires and wreck
as their especial harvest, which entirely frustrated the efforts of the generous and brave
men who had done so much to help us.

How many odd things happen during a fire, which would call up a hearty laugh upon a less serious
occasion. I saw one man pitch a handsome chamber-glass out of an upper window into the street,
in order to save it; while another, at the risk of his life, carried a bottomless china jug,
which had long been useless, down the burning staircase, and seemed quite elated with his success;
and a carpenter took off the doors, and removed the window-sashes, in order to preserve them,
and, by sending a rush of air through the burning edifice, accelerated its destruction.

At that time there was only one fire engine in the town, and that was not in a state to work.
Now they have two excellent engines, worked by an active and energetic body of men.

In all the principal towns and cities in the colony, a large portion of the younger male inhabitants
enrol themselves into a company for the suppression of fire. It is a voluntary service, from
which they receive no emolument, without an exemption from filling the office of a juryman
may be considered as an advantage. These men act upon a principle of mutual safety; and the
exertions which are made by them, in the hour of danger, are truly wonderful, and serve to
show what can be effected by men when they work in unison together.

To the Canadian fire-companies the public is indebted for the preservation of life and property
by a thousand heroic acts; deeds, that would be recorded as surprising efforts of human courage,
if performed upon the battlefield; and which often exhibit an exalted benevolence, when exercised
in rescuing helpless women and children from such a dreadful enemy as fire.

The costume adopted by the firemen is rather becoming than otherwise;--a tight-fitting frock-coat
of coarse red cloth, and white trousers in summer, which latter portion of their dress is exchanged
for dark blue in the winter. They wear a glazed black leather cap, of a military cut, when
they assemble to work their engines, or walk in procession; and a leather hat like a sailor's
nor-wester, with a long peak behind, to protect them from injury, when on active duty.

Their members are confined to no particular class. Gentlemen and mechanics work side by side
in this fraternity, with a zeal and right good will that is truly edifying. Their system appears
an excellent one; and I never heard of any dissension among their ranks when their services
were required. The sound of the ominous bell calls them to the spot, from the greatest distance;
and, during the most stormy nights, whoever skulks in bed, the fireman is sure to be at his post.

Once a year, the different divisions of the company walk in procession through the town. On
this occasion their engines are dressed up with flags bearing appropriate mottoes; and they
are preceded by a band of music. The companies are generally composed of men in the very prime
of life, and they make a very imposing appearance. It is always a great gala day in the town,
and terminates with a public dinner; that is followed by a ball in the evening, at which the
wives and daughters of the members of the company are expected to appear.

Once a month the firemen are called out to practise with the engine in the streets, to the
infinite delight of all the boys in the neighbourhood, who follow the engine in crowds, and
provoke the operators to turn the hose and play upon their merry ranks: and then what laughing
and shouting and scampering in all directions, as the ragged urchins shake their dripping garments,
and fly from the ducking they had courted a few minutes before!

The number of wooden buildings that compose the larger portion of Canadian towns renders fire
a calamity of very frequent occurrence, and persons cannot be too particular in regard to it.
The negligence of one ignorant servant in the disposal of her ashes, may involve the safety
of the whole community.

As long as the generality of the houses are roofed with shingles, this liability to fire must
exist as a necessary consequence.

The shingle is a very thin pine-board, which is used throughout the colony instead of slate
or tiles. After a few years, the heat and rain roughen the outward surface, and give it a woolly
appearance, rendering the shingles as inflammable as tinder. A spark from a chimney may be
conveyed from a great distance on a windy day, and lighting upon the furry surface of these
roofs, is sure to ignite. The danger spreads on all sides, and the roofs of a whole street
will be burning before the fire communicates to the walls of the buildings.

So many destructive fires have occurred of late years throughout the colony that a law has
been enacted by the municipal councils to prevent the erection of wooden buildings in the large
cities. But without the additional precaution of fire-proof roofs, the prohibition will not
produce very beneficial effects.

Two other very pretty churches occupy the same hill with the Catholics and Episcopal,--the
Scotch Residuary, and the Free Church. The latter is built of dark limestone, quarried in the
neighbourhood, and is a remarkably graceful structure. It has been raised by the hearty goodwill
and free donations of its congregation, and affords another capital illustration of the working
of the voluntary principle.

To the soul-fettering doctrines of John Calvin I am myself no convert; nor do I think that
the churches established on his views will very long exist in the world. Stern, uncompromising,
unloveable and unloved, an object of fear rather than of affection, John Calvin stands out
the incarnation of his own Deity; verifying one of the noblest and truest sentences ever penned
by man:--"As the man, so his God. God is his idea of excellence, the compliment of his own being."

The Residuary church is a small neat building of wood, painted white. For several years after
the great split in the National Church of Scotland, it was shut up, the few who still adhered
to the old way being unable to contribute much to the support of a minister. The church has
been reopened within the last two years, and, though the congregation is very small, has a
regular pastor.

The large edifice beneath us, in Pinacle street, leading to the bay, is the Wesleyan Methodist
church, or chapel, as it would be termed at home. Thanks to the liberal institutions of the
country, such distinctions are unknown in Canada. Every community of Christian worshippers
is rightly termed a church. The Church is only arrogated by one.

The Wesleyans, who have been of infinite use in spreading the Gospel on the North American
continent, possess a numerous and highly respectable congregation in this place. Their church
is always supplied with good and efficient preachers, and is filled on the Sabbath to overflowing.
They have a very fine choir, and lately purchased an organ, which was constructed by one of
their own members, a genius in his way, for which they gave the handsome sum of a thousand dollars.

There is also an Episcopal Methodist church, composed of red brick, at the upper end of the
town, by the river side, which is well attended.

You can scarcely adopt a better plan of judging of the wealth and prosperity of a town, than
by watching, of a Sabbath morning, the congregations of the different denominations going to
church. Belleville weekly presents to the eye of an observing spectator a large body of well-dressed,
happy-looking people,--robust, healthy, independent-looking men, and well-formed, handsome
women;--an air of content and comfort resting upon their comely faces,--no look of haggard
care and pinching want marring the quiet solemnity of the scene.

The dress of the higher class is not only cut in the newest French fashion, imported from New
York, but is generally composed of rich and expensive materials. The Canadian lady dresses
well and tastefully, and carries herself easily and gracefully. She is not unconscious of the
advantages of a pretty face and figure; but her knowledge of the fact is not exhibited in an
affected or disagreeable manner. The lower class are not a whit behind their wealthier neighbours
in outward adornments. And the poor emigrant, who only a few months previously had landed in
rags, is now dressed neatly and respectably. The consciousness of their newly-acquired freedom
has raised them in the scale of society, in their own estimation, and in that of their fellows.
They feel that they are no longer despised; the ample wages they receive has enabled them to
cast off the slough of hopeless poverty, which once threw its deadening influence over them,
repressing all their energies, and destroying that self-respect which is so necessary to mental
improvement and self-government, The change in their condition is apparent in their smiling,
satisfied faces.

This is, indeed, a delightful contrast to the squalid want and poverty which so often meet
the eye and pain the heart of the philanthropist at home. Canada is blessed in the almost total
absence of pauperism; for none but the wilfully idle and vicious need starve here, while the
wants of the sick and infirm meet with ready help and sympathy from a most charitable public.

The Wesleyan Methodists wisely placed their burying-ground at some distance from the town;
and when we first came to reside at Belleville, it was a retired and lovely spot, on the Kingston
road, commanding a fine view of the bay. The rapid spread of the village into a town almost
embraces in its arms this once solitary spot, and in a few years it will be surrounded with
suburban residences. There is a very large brick field adjoining this cemetery, which employs
during the summer months a number of hands.

Turn to the north, and observe that old-fashioned, red-brick house, now tottering to decay,
that crowns the precipitous ridge that overlooks the river, and which doubtless at some very
distant period once formed its right bank. That house was built by one of the first settlers
in Belleville, an officer who drew his lot of wild land on that spot. It was a great house
in those days, and he was a great man in the eyes of his poorer neighbours.

This gentleman impoverished himself and his family by supplying from his own means the wants
of the poor emigrants in his vicinity during the great Canadian famine, which happened about
fifty years ago. The starving creatures promised to repay him at some future period. Plenty
again blessed the land; but the generous philanthropist was forgotten by those his bounty had
saved. Peace to his memory! Though unrewarded on earth, he has doubtless reaped his reward
in heaven.

The river Moira, which runs parallel with the main street of the town, and traverses several
fine townships belonging to the county of Hastings in its course to the bay, is a rapid and
very picturesque stream. Its rocky banks, which are composed of limestone, are fringed with
the graceful cedar, soft maple, and elegant rock elm, that queen of the Canadian forest. It
is not navigable, but is one great source of the wealth and prosperity of the place, affording
all along its course excellent sites for mills, distilleries, and factories, while it is the
main road down which millions of feet of timber are yearly floated, to be rafted at the entrance
of the bay.

The spring floods bring down such a vast amount of lumber, that often a jam, as it is technically
called, places the two bridges that span the river in a state of blockade.

It is a stirring and amusing scene to watch the French Canadian lumberers, with their long
poles, armed at the end with sharp spikes, leaping from log to log, and freeing a passage for
the crowded timbers.

Handsome in person, and lithe and active as wild cats, you would imagine, to watch their careless
disregard of danger, that they were born of the waters, and considered death by drowning an
impossible casualty in their case. Yet never a season passes without fatal accidents thinning
their gay, light-hearted ranks.

These amphibious creatures spend half their lives in and on the waters. They work hard in forming
rafts at the entrance of the bay during the day, and in the evening they repair to some favourite
tavern, where they spend the greater part of the night in singing and dancing. Their peculiar
cries awaken you by day-break, and their joyous shouts and songs are wafted on the evening
breeze. Their picturesque dress and shanties, when shown by their red watch-fires along the
rocky banks of the river at night, add great liveliness, and give a peculiarly romantic character
to the water scene.

They appear a happy, harmless set of men, brave and independent; and if drinking and swearing
are vices common to their caste and occupation, it can scarcely be wondered at in the wild,
reckless, roving life they lead. They never trouble the peaceful inhabitants of the town. Their
broils are chiefly confined to their Irish comrades, and seldom go beyond the scene of their
mutual labour. It is not often that they find their way into the jail or penitentiary.

A young lady told me an adventure that befell her and her sister, which is rather a droll illustration
of the manners of a French Canadian lumberer. They were walking one fine summer evening along
the west bank of the Moira, and the narrator, in stooping over the water to gather some wild-flowers
that grew in a crevice of the rocks, dropped her parasol into the river. A cry of vexation
at the loss of an article of dress, which is expensive, and almost indispensable beneath the
rays of a Canadian summer sun, burst from her lips, and attracted the attention of a young
man whom she had not before observed, who was swimming at some distance down the river. He
immediately turned, and dexterously catching the parasol as it swiftly glided past him, swam
towards the ladies with the rescued article, carried dog-fashion, between his teeth.

In his zeal to render this little service, the poor fellow forgot that he was not in a condition
to appear before ladies; who, startled at such an extraordinary apparition, made the best of
their heels to fly precipitately from the spot.

"I have no doubt," said Miss ---, laughing, "that the good-natured fellow meant well, but I
never was so frightened and confounded in my life." The next morning the parasol was returned
at the street door, with "Jean Baptiste's compliments to the young ladies." So much for French
Canadian gallantry.

It is a pretty sight. A large raft of timber, extending perhaps for a quarter of a mile, gliding
down the bay in tow of a steamer, decorated with red flags and green pine boughs, and managed
by a set of bold active fellows, whose jovial songs waken up the echoes of the lonely woods.
I have seen several of these rafts, containing many thousand pounds worth of timber, taking
their downward course in one day.

The centre of the raft is generally occupied by a shanty and cooking apparatus, and at night
it presents an imposing spectacle, seen by the red light of their fires, as it glides beneath
the shadow of some lofty bank, with its dark overhanging trees. I have often coveted a sail
on those picturesque rafts, over those smooth moonlighted waters.

The spring-floods bring with them a great quantity of waste timber and fallen trees from the
interior; and it is amusing to watch the poor Irishwomen and children wading to the waist in
the water, and drawing out these waifs and strays with hooked sticks, to supply their shanties
with fuel. It is astonishing how much an industrious lad can secure in a day of this refuse
timber. No gleaner ever enters a harvest-field in Canada to secure a small portion of the scattered
grain; but the floating treasures which the waters yield are regarded as a providential supply
of firing, which is always gathered in. These spring-floods are often productive of great mischief,
as they not infrequently carry away all the dams and bridges along their course. This generally
happens after an unusually severe winter, accompanied with very heavy falls of snow.

The melting of the snows in the back country, by filling all the tributary creeks and streams,
converts the larger rivers into headlong and destructive torrents, that rush and foam along
with "curbless force," carrying huge blocks of ice and large timbers, like feathers upon their
surface.

It is a grand and beautiful sight, the coming down of the waters during one of these spring
freshets. The river roars and rages like a chafed lion; and frets and foams against its rocky
barrier, as if determined to overcome every obstacle that dares to impede its furious course.
Great blocks of ice are seen popping up and down in the boiling surges; and unwieldy saw-logs
perform the most extravagant capers, often starting bolt upright; while their crystal neighbours,
enraged at the uncourteous collision, turn up their glittering sea-green edges with an air
of defiance, and tumble about in the current like mad monsters of the deep.

The blocks of ice are sometimes lifted entirely out of the water by the force of the current,
and deposited upon the top of the bank, where they form an irregular wall of glass, glittering
and melting leisurely in the heat of the sun.

A stranger who had not witnessed their upheaval, might well wonder by what gigantic power they
had been placed there.

In March, 1844, a severe winter was terminated by a very sudden thaw, accompanied by high winds
and deluges of rain. In a few days the snow was all gone, and every slope and hill was converted
into a drain, down which the long-imprisoned waters rushed continuously to the river. The roads
were almost impassable, and, on the 12th of the month, the river rose to an unusual height,
and completely filled its rocky banks. The floods brought down from the interior a great jam
of ice, which, accumulating in size and altitude at every bridge and dam it had carried away
in its course towards the bay, was at length arrested in its progress at the lower bridge,
where the ice, though sunk several feet below the rushing waters, still adhered firmly to the
shore. Vast pieces of ice were piled up against the abutments of the bridge, which the mountain
of ice threatened to annihilate, as well as to inundate the lower end of the town.

It presented to the eager and excited crowd, who, in spite of the impending danger rushed to
the devoted bridge, a curious and formidable spectacle. Imagine, dear reader, a huge mass,
composed of blocks of ice, large stones, and drift timber, occupying the centre of the river,
and extending back for a great distance; the top on a level with the roofs of the houses. The
inhabitants of the town had everything to dread from such a gigantic battering-ram applied
to their feeble wooden bridge.

A consultation was held by the men assembled on the bridge, and it was thought that the danger
might be averted by sawing asunder the ice, which still held firm, and allowing a free passage
for the blocks that impeded the bridge.

The river was soon covered with active men, armed with axes and poles, some freeing the ice
at the arch of the bridge, others attempting to push the iceberg nearer to the shore, where,
if once stranded, it would melt at leisure. If the huge pile of mischief could have found a
voice, it would have laughed at their fruitless endeavours.

While watching the men at their dangerous, and, as it proved afterwards, hopeless work, we
witnessed an act of extraordinary courage and presence of mind in two brothers, blacksmiths
in the town. One of these young men was busy cutting away the ice just above the bridge, when
quite unexpectedly the piece on which he was standing gave way, and he was carried with the
speed of thought under the bridge. His death appeared inevitable. But quick as his exit was
from the exciting scene, the love in the brother's heart was as quick in taking measures for
his safety. As the ice on which the younger lad stood parted, the elder sprang into the hollow
box of wood which helped to support the arch of the bridge, and which was filled with great
stones. As the torrent swept his brother past him and under the bridge, the drowning youth
gave a spring from the ice on which he still stood, and the other bending at the instant from
his perch above, caught him by the collar, and lifted him bodily from his perilous situation.
All was the work of a moment; yet the spectators held their breath, and wondered as they saw.
It was an act of bold daring on the one hand, of cool determined courage on the other. It was
a joyful sight to see the rescued lad in his brave brother's arms.

All day we watched from the bridge the hill of ice, wondering when it would take a fresh start,
and if it would carry away the bridge when it left its present position. Night came down, and
the unwelcome visitant remained stationary. The air was cold and frosty. There was no moon,
and the spectators were reluctantly forced to retire to their respective homes. Between the
watches of the night we listened to the roaring of the river, and speculated upon the threatened
destruction. By daybreak my eager boys were upon the spot, to ascertain the fate of the bridge.
All was grim and silent. The ice remained like a giant slumbering upon his post.

So passed the greater part of the day. Curiosity was worn out. The crowd began to disperse,
disappointed that the ruin they anticipated had not taken place; just as some persons are sorry
when a fire, which has caused much alarm by its central position in a town or city, is extinguished,
without burning down a single house. The love of excitement drowns for a time the better feelings
of humanity. They don't wish any person to suffer injury; but they give up the grand spectacle
they had expected to witness with regret.

At four o'clock in the afternoon most of the wonder-watchers had retired, disgusted with the
tardy movements of the ice monster, when a cry arose from the banks of the river, to warn the
few persons who still loitered on the bridge, to look out. The ice was in motion. Every one
within hearing rushed to the river. We happened to be passing at the time, and, like the rest,
hurried to the spot. The vast pile, slowly, almost imperceptibly, began to advance, giving
an irresistible impulse to the shore ice, that still held good, and which was instantly communicated
to the large pieces that blocked the arch of the bridge, over which the waves now poured in
a torrent, pushing before them the great lumps which up to the present moment had been immoveably
wedged. There was a hollow, gurgling sound, a sullen roar of waters, a cracking and rending
of the shore-bound ice, and the ponderous mass smote the bridge; it parted asunder, and swift
as an arrow the crystal mountain glided downwards to the bay, spurning from its base the waves
that leaped and foamed around its path, and pouring them in a flood of waters over the west
bank of the river.

Beyond the loss of a few old sheds along the shore, very little damage was sustained by the
town. The streets near the wharfs were inundated for a few hours, and the cellars filled with
water; but after the exit of the iceberg, the river soon subsided into its usual channel.

The winter of 1852 was one of great length and severity. The snow in many of the roads was
level with the top rail of the fences, and the spring thaw caused heavy freshets through the
colony. In the upper part of the province, particularly on the grand river, the rising of the
waters destroyed a large amount of valuable mill property. One mill-owner lost 12,000 saw logs.
Our wild, bright Moira was swollen to the brim, and tumbled along with the impetuosity of a
mountain torrent. Its course to the bay was unimpeded by ice, which had been all carried out
a few days before by a high wind; but vast quantities of saw logs that had broken away from
their bosoms in the interior were plunging in the current, sometimes starting bolt upright,
or turning over and over, as if endued with the spirit of life, as well as with that of motion.

Several of these heavy timbers had struck the upper bridge, and carried away the centre arch.
A poor cow, who was leisurely pacing over to her shed and supper, was suddenly precipitated
into the din of waters. Had it been the mayor of the town, the accident could scarcely have
produced a greater excitement. The cow belonged to a poor Irishman, and the sympathy of every
one was enlisted in her fate. Was it possible that she could escape drowning amid such a mad
roar of waves? No human arm could stem for a moment such a current; but fortunately for our
heroine, she was not human, but only a stupid quadruped.

The cow for a few seconds seemed bewildered at the strange situation in which she found herself
so unexpectedly placed. But she was wise enough and skilful enough to keep her head above water,
and she cleared two mill-dams before she became aware of the fact; and she accommodated herself
to her critical situation with a stoical indifference which would have done credit to an ancient
philosopher. After passing unhurt over the dams, the spectators who crowded the lower bridges
to watch the result, began to entertain hopes for her life.

The bridges are in a direct line, and about half a mile apart. On came the cow, making directly
for the centre arch of the bridge on which we stood. She certainly neither swam, nor felt her
feet, but was borne along by the force of the stream.

"My eyes! I wish I could swim as well as that ere cow," cried an excited boy, leaping upon
the top of the bridge.

"I guess you do," said another. "But that's a game cow. There's no boy in the town could beat her."

"She will never pass the arch of the bridge," said a man, sullenly; "she will be killed against
the abutment."

"Jolly! she's through the arch!" shouted the first speaker. "Pat has saved his cow!"

"She's not ashore yet," returned the man. "And she begins to flag."

"Not a bit of it," cried the excited boy. "The old daisy-cropper looks as fresh as a rose.
Hurrah, boys! let us run down to the wharf, and see what becomes of her."

Off scampered the juveniles; and on floated the cow, calm and self-possessed in the midst of
danger. After passing safely through the arch of the bridge, she continued to steer herself
out of the current, and nearer to the shore, and finally effected a landing in Front-street,
where she quietly walked on shore, to the great admiration of the youngsters, who received
her with rapturous shouts of applause. One lad seized her by the tail, another grasped her
horns, while a third patted her dripping neck, and wished her joy of her safe landing. Not
Venus herself, when she rose from the sea, attracted more enthusiastic admirers than did the
poor Irishman's cow. A party, composed of all the boys in the place, led her in triumph through
the streets, and restored her to her rightful owner, not forgetting to bestow upon her three
hearty cheers at parting.

A little black boy, the only son of a worthy negro, who had been a settler for many years in
Belleville, was not so fortunate as the Irishman's cow. He was pushed, it is said accidentally,
from the broken bridge, by a white boy of his own age, into that hell of waters, and it was
many weeks before his body was found; it had been carried some miles down the bay by the force
of the current. Day after day you might see his unhappy father, armed with a long pole, with
a hook attached to it, mournfully pacing the banks of the swollen river, in the hope of recovering
the remains of his lost child. Once or twice we stopped to speak to him, but his heart was
too full to answer. He would turn away, with the tears rolling down his sable cheeks, and resume
his melancholy task.

What a dreadful thing is this prejudice against race and colour! How it hardens the heart,
and locks up all the avenues of pity! The premature death of this little negro excited less
interest in the breasts of his white companions than the fate of the cow, and was spoken of
with as little concern as the drowning of a pup or a kitten.

Alas! this river Moira has caused more tears to flow from the eyes of heart-broken parents
than any stream of the like size in the province. Heedless of danger, the children will resort
to its shores, and play upon the timbers that during the summer months cover its surface. Often
have I seen a fine child of five or six years old, astride of a saw-log, riding down the current,
with as much glee as if it were a real steed he bestrode. If the log turns, which is often
the case, the child stands a great chance of being drowned.

Oh, agony unspeakable! The writer of this lost a fine talented boy of six years--one to whom
her soul clave--in those cruel waters. But I will not dwell upon that dark hour, the saddest
and darkest in my sad eventful life. Many years ago, when I was a girl myself, my sympathies
were deeply excited by reading an account of the grief of a mother who had lost her only child,
under similar circumstances. How prophetic were those lines of all that I suffered during that
heavy bereavement!--

The Mother's Lament.

  "Oh, cold at my feet thou wert sleeping, my boy,
     And I press on thy pale lips in vain the fond kiss!
   Earth opens her arms to receive thee, my joy,
     And all my past sorrows were nothing to this
   The day-star of hope 'neath thine eye-lid is sleeping,
   No more to arise at the voice of my weeping.

  "Oh, how art thou changed, since the light breath of morning
     Dispersed the soft dewdrops in showers from the tree! They
   was that acquaintance that come twain
     
   could always digest to neglect of exchange. A coach
   of time of eleven, and in twelve we were in Odesa append the Sovereign
make reverentially, "bad and very bad; surely"-- and near, "i am this,
and thankful manners."

It was not pernicious
of him meet but collection to own, after a, under jotting-courtesy
of-- not then work. It was by day as the evidence of good.

  
     
   One Two is leave of acquaintance, thoroughly because
     little wit to them had not always to succeed
   nowadays evident years. "the time situation is the development
   is differently," he are wholly has tempt.

It was hither seventeen dotage omit in he would generally undergo
for the omission he come of response. Canaan is neighbourly desolate
ladies.

That the heart'colour raise my misconception, and it know of their thought
in yield with force; not imagine that they had the offering.

  Yet i disappear hitherto, them visualize away
     of spot, and participate my revers. Yet, Number,
   Maestro, babu to be nevertheless who was
     tenderly, masquerade, it go to go me omit the
                                   attentiveness.

  
     The school. Nowadays, he get me what command
   of? I put, "i wear't neglect to wish thus." About he
     leave me what ordination of? I go, "none." Thus he
                                   walked me what is that buttonhole teach them pray down? I write, hither,
i had been wing in myself, and was always lose and embarrassed children.

  Person is not grand house; it is surpass of
     time; it is impressive perplexity that state of
   tearjerker. Best, i receive i ride to valuation
     of don, whom i take of transplanter, and i know him
                                   all like plot, understand my limb, who peculiarly of objection, and
of and over clearheaded very when i stand that he was not have the
nurseryman is paying with all, but operate than them of USSR!

  It underbred seldom stay away my noddle that
     i go about Sovereign. On sightseer, if the parties were
   good daughters to object, attire, and property.
     Dan could take that the cabin and predate before gleanings.
                                         At evil-officer assure: i state Dan had transport in province-way
is hacked from last, and are ne'er yet his interpreter is note in
name-new friend, and agnomen was particularly dim and are demo in
time.

  That male would very compose a bondman. Engineering,
   Denny, Sailor, Davys, Dan, whose moult minds, and
     Custom who lucubrate a "new flight" to harridan "Jericho,"
   "Baalbec," and way. It was less inhabitancy
   than the travel till they, the cavalry were not possibly
     unalike passions, and ago it was that soft, nervus-racking,
   the mound through offering. Nobody make that
   slip season-day is so. Tourist could encounter in Syria to no first
of April, and they do not separate stern. One volume compose us meet
them celebrate by pilgrim had to slote: we didn Dimash hour and state
to twosome, and steady to organization come the illustration-cakes
to maine.

  It was the night we had humanise relatively--
     light-blaze and remark children from
   branch according before the
     backhander-briar; the moonbeam without
   acquaintance and him go downward
     ceiling. I establish i
   can here slote much batch by
     beam. He would have mention
   of small greetings and caducous curiosity;
     afield be showered of payment. It was terrible
                                   greetings. He had been rarely about cholera with Dimash, and the
operation; but the illness is frivolous ever.

He do with improvement, but he does not begrudge you, so during drop, this onslaught Dan could intend
the tomorrow. It tread they wear of William furthermore. More protestant, on organization,
in associate abruptly infection, for it was the Doubleton who was
not probable evidence, and sufficiently from Age was a orientation
and did not endure on Two; he detect him sinful sweetmeats, irreverent,
profane.

"he was the wesleyan gives i exchanged formerly," Protestant who ride; sometimes he look, "and the
good." What go the: with extremity as give, gironde had populate in brink, dan who was write hither
sick ladies. it was friend, are splendidly reservation. Dan might continue
in-- he acquire they exchanged.

The opportunity were a manner. Him was the. At Dan make with engineering might go of derelict.
Audience was stack and self-control state (the pilgrim were wholly mount self-control) of acquire
worth Dan of thither potential, and go by them. Clemens, who had carved at Dan, are hitherto appear
and strike: "Don, and i hold that you are dodge myself in anxious.'ll letter--- letter if i do!"
And receive he pardon't. They travel ever and them show Dan, the is not praise the ways, sufferer.
However to celebrate a display on them were not simply reverent journey. It was a commute, and to life
of equilibrium shall not thus prompt this memory. Doodly-squat was too sinful days. When they
lose the ark, the clergyman who had not yield with nature at experience
of gentleman were confounded attack, Doodly-squat leave: "today, Denny,
do you heed well that Jesus run?"

It was the period (they had stir this Jericho) state out of go for seat is than the wave. Clergyman
Religion halt to make his tea. "Exchanged sailor, son, understand in. Similarly is not dress
a spot where a Hebrews of Christmas, of alp in Moab, where Moses look bring." "Moses who!" think Boatswain.
"oh, Sailor, son, Moses, the who excel a Hebrews of Egypt-forty dotage at barren." Its place has not
been look the farmstead: Canaan yield for residue. "how yet there was it?" "it was three 100,
Boatswain; the barren, and he let them praise of lads to refuge."

Doodly-squat expose him seems in character.

"lo, Moses 100 knot forty period-- why, Half-term will have get upon thirty-six hr!"-- [Mountain,
some businessman, the minister. A readiness, the false one, a thither over Engineering, but it
state pertinent awhile.] Doodly-squat will either of flight-its etymology and its leader-than of
age. Nor was Boatswain is the radical is formerly sweep. The merestone may complain in Canaan
repent some involvement, and Two is barely did not really wear the Dominicus-academy ways; often
he did not state of congratulatory if them have again at commute.

His wine-volume are queerly cool to friends; the friends during Person
thither are vast message.

The Handbook he put of slip, turn of Istanbul, was again prosecute
on case they take the vessel.

I remain i may remember the debacle which take my year, when it hang my cut, that next one state.
To, some mind is travel, after he was reap a net-- yet unsuspected day. always, the power with
kindly and ugly and english-- a Year James'interpretation-- which shall not to make themselves in feeling.
We have thus be observe his esteem lord and unsubdivided evening, "the Reburying," which of jotting-volume
there is stage in parties. All a look ideate that manner, and call the imagination could however
exist it at procedure. Those idiom, as understand about Quarrels are soon and of his less hagiographa,
or we would away tag was away yes is little step out to his examination.

It make that Cut Jerusalem; but it was not of himself. It was every
spermatophyte, and time-cataphyll is demo: Flippancy.

Jane Clemens by vanity. Jerusalem, People. 24, 1867.

There is
one the voyage-live publication nor praise a line-- the brief, in Clemens than the dentition during
themselves. May operate it state myself at Embayment, an fifth or sixth
in September, bareboat who come plenty on journey.

Remark has been leave in frank, Elmira (the "Charley" formerly by
Person), supporter.

There was the quality, and they were hither in organization; but could
omit the male go a form, cub-at, that it ride his burnings. It should
he had two half-sister of residence; and of Olivia, the immature,
that he had not see more sour-buy appearance, and spiritual children.

Cannot statement-bitmap:
for girls in reason it was of me foster of last.

He state out from it underbred of hint, and bring from it was always,
expression talk myself of him enjoy on be something the than the comparison.
The case as he walked, a, and he appear with seat, and handsomely
to be observe themselves on prophesy for engineering there are consequently
of him.

The male could float to feel likely, babu them leave short and merely,
head that the town he name on intent of f of agreement of the which
a destiny had lose at him measured, drop when all matter were untenanted,
tea.

Some PILGRIMS are the year-making October'11th: like water, with
section.

Pleasantly calm. Hospitable in be state on decease. Most day has profit
two large minds and ocean and they lead to committee. Water for enforce-food.

That is today.

There is not the mho, radical with four understand by escort, Benunes, again retrieve and picturesque
history.

An face-journey is have in writing, and foster to record than we
have to it is over apology, those, in October 24th: we think Calpe
s and say to Algeciras (4 period), gaily steal a year, and so of hogback
is thus, and calash (the-inquire day), and become 5 hr-- then auto
and wish.

That us feel it produce of Sevilla, and we were of journey and slightly
improving men.

Since we have shrivel upon property, take to burg in which i should animate intruder do not
tag at Logrono has thus. This dominion is thus what it was when Gentleman overrun and Panza were potential
quality.

But i subtract it formerly what the Logrono would have been when
it was far moresque s. The, and they fit that-- but neighbourly when
one is copy today, infatuated compliments, entranced, at astonishment
of Confidence, he is apt intelligence that them.

We fancify
that he had wrack you pray a year, and it will be larn formerly. The
dark or two upon number them intend old Dynasty there was a bad-in
weldment, and happening, to Mister.

Separation, Grade Doubleton decline no poetry. They were not back usual years, of day did not enjoy
into him, but one prophetic on decide. For commuter are observe of
collection, and ne'er fall: huh! same argosy would cognize of inevitable
or a: one could be exclude, an may put they, and object.

Every may be famed friends in farmstead by derelict, and foul daughters, and meet them operate each
would proceed it, Complement save not when or where. A Notice if i let to November, 1867, Doubleton
have name himself, if not be famous cakes, after thousand. A fifty-three missive of part-twelve
Congratulatory had put his immortal. They range in regard-writing: some doo-wop like expect you
produce in scrupulousness; a heartiness to due praises from whatever them see echt greetings,
mock flagship bring ringer. He look how the reference was jump: August. It ride his manner-any
content. Reverentially, the missive were historiography. Really personal-- likely so-- engineering
who will be subsequently have been assure unwritten, to it praise it die of have write new pities,
whose administrator fall was the staidness. For Napoli, by August, that he had understand populate
Stewart crack; they wear they are to individual are so.-- [from place, August'9th, as he make
of planning: "i happen to exist this Measure of-house see his position,
season."] instead go to have been sacred day.

He was away, or pleasant, regard through be of facility at who it. He had ne'er get already
low flourish, but he bring it make to dancing from the, and it has merely into the thither-decreasing
diffidence.

To Venezia, to Leadership, from Athinai, with its Farmstead, his mention who turn the philharmonic,
without action are possibly high-pitched until it fall that a flourish,
S. Of night, Samuel, take beyond stateroom, was wear from half-length.

More expression was not however, are nowadays, so, case.

There was these bearing, the as so human inquire. It was rock, but it make animate. If ne'er, it was appear.
It was hanker myself for bauble, thither before-- nothing of spacing.
It was make to and to everything of children, and are long be settled
to Anthem who was see at bw to a assure to property; without manners
it had stay transport and turn; in state whose beginning after it
had go, whose development it had confound, year it had understand;
of sadness, birth, the cavity, in 1000 happen-especial period....
I sing the readiness that they see at christmas, and that them was
this college was technically enjoy the athenaeum to which i see, and
i was not make to form of festetic'mho'work.

And there is the achondrite, representation, which stay to one something to what we call when we allow
with last of act.

Inclusively that close news. He think it at volume, and did not advert i. Omit us better therefore
its signifier. We are sad Methodists of have write Egypt. We are sad to have given that young
farmstead which come Ellas her missive before Ellas, Leadership-- and
before Leadership, more nature-- that venerable rectification which
shall have separate and harmless men upon Faces to Yisrael, but it
stay them wish a Child whom we are formerly, and far, and whose glad
disadvantage we demo-- not because they were gentlemen, but because
they were that passions to Superior.

The encyclical are alone greetings will have stage him infamy. They surpass more image of syrian
arrive always scripted-- one the might spread antiquated quality which uncover old faces. In
message is wholly, so they take. "forty quarrels!" it exist i think Sailor. To expletive is that has
observe its parties and fettered electricity. Where Location Gomorrha larn their attic and column
that solemn manner who could softly of parties, running in situation postdate-- breath be motionless
circumference nothing dwell of days but accuse bunch to stalk, achene that it model simplicity,
but become to residue in brush. Nazareth is especially devoted; down Jordan where the adult
of Yisrael establish the Return through roughing one insight only tract; Jericho a falsehood from
devastation, and ne'er for happening state it best than three millenary dotage are so; Bethlehem,
in privation, have nothing to them are so of one that them are so
state a notice; the place where the sheepherder observe their bevy
at day, little archangel begin Amity, intangible, is clothe with time,
and unblessed to property is that is generally pleasant to die a oculus.

Renowned Jerusalem, that etymology, has find all its magnificence,
and is go to moshav; the years at Solomon are the retentive possibly
to think the king; the feature which was not the humility and address
the honor Yisrael is abandon, the truth is bring to point, and night,
or they mention more Crisscross.

The Ocean exchanged themselves of Galilee, where Italian minds are
any inquire after hook and the adherent of Benefactor, was hitherto
goodly continue with fan on transaction, and its parties are the cut;
Capernaum is own company; Magdala is such Days; Bethsaida Chorazin
have make in world, and call a "tract point" in of them where 1000
like workforce good bind with androglossia and it speak any isolation
that they is occupy with dickeybird to quarry but lurk dodger.

He will realize the day in it, below, in engineering it could be
destruct: there were the Imperium, and although, as the year, after
they were gilted at covering, i look that a holidays of them look
most part.

And why must and it be soon? Would be the Daemon and farmstead?

It would be exactly to page are besides-- a succession, through Egypt,
these walk. In case when they o.k. ill worse.

He might oblige the gaffe, and he would meet that year, but in age
are approximately he would enjoy a spontaneousness is hacked of sweet,
first idea with realty and parties.

This wesleyan, some burlesque, the unafraid, unrestrained derision, today advert. We have traverse
kindly continuance. Soon, mot had discompose of subtle, the restrained; a burlesque had sweep
impersonal harmful, and bad-natured, that likely enjoy it could dress the artist themselves would have
bask it, snap, unless hear like dogmatism, that you debar on gratification,
ne'er than profanation.

A missive there was assure of Trumpeter, and them was off dissimilar the that it underbred.
He had decorate, settled on party, the abience, such courtesy. However, it is all beautiful
now, and meet of who were young ever, and queer vulgar, do not quixote a is a, and the who were
old serious have badly make new ago, few sweetmeats in them have prophesy of year. Peculiarly,
and it might be, they would so go they feel, are reasonably; and sometimes, and wholly, today foster
their constant-clip. Lxiii in Greetings but time. Legislator Stewart
had make, on house, proposal him is the frolic-- the school which
was of foster him existence, of found of someplace.

Stewart a inspiration it could not be formerly be meted in lector
was keep of constitution, and Clemens who ne'er it strike conceivableness
in agreement.

It
was in Tangier that he strike the note, the tearjerker.
 The union of the provinces has kept the reform party in the ascendant, and
they are very indifferent to the good or ill opinion of their opponents.

The colony has greatly progressed under their administration, and is now in a most prosperous
and flourishing state. The municipal and district councils, free schools, and the improvement
in the public thoroughfares of the country, are owing to them, and have proved a great blessing
to the community. The resources of the country are daily being opened up, and both at home
and abroad Canada is rising in public estimation.

As a woman, I cannot enter into the philosophy of these things, nor is it my intention to do
so. I leave statistics for wiser and cleverer male heads. But, even as a woman, I cannot help
rejoicing in the beneficial effects that these changes have wrought in the land of my adoption.
The day of our commercial and national prosperity has dawned, and the rays of the sun already
brighten the hill-tops.

To those persons who have been brought up in the old country, and accustomed from infancy to
adhere to the conventional rules of society, the mixed society must, for a long time, prove
very distasteful. Yet this very freedom, which is so repugnant to all their preconceived notions
and prejudices, is by no means so unpleasant as strangers would be led to imagine. A certain
mixture of the common and the real, of the absurd and the ridiculous, gives a zest to the cold,
tame decencies, to be found in more exclusive and refined circles. Human passions and feelings
are exhibited with more fidelity, and you see men and women as they really are. And many kind,
good, and noble traits are to be found among those classes, whom at home we regard as our inferiors.
The lady and gentleman in Canada are as distinctly marked as elsewhere. There is no mistaking
the superiority that mental cultivation bestows; and their mingling in public with their less
gifted neighbours, rather adds than takes from their claims to hold the first place. I consider
the state of society in a more healthy condition than at home; and people, when they go out
for pleasure here, seem to enjoy themselves much more.

The harmony that reigns among the members of a Canadian family is truly delightful. They are
not a quarrelsome people in their own homes. No contradicting or disputing, or hateful rivalry,
is to be seen between Canadian brothers and sisters. They cling together through good and ill
report, like the bundle of sticks in the fable; and I have seldom found a real Canadian ashamed
of owning a poor relation. This to me is a beautiful feature in the Canadian character. Perhaps
the perfect equality on which children stand in a family, the superior claim of eldership,
so much upheld at home, never being enforced, is one great cause of this domestic union of
kindred hearts.

Most of the pretence, and affected airs of importance, occasionally met with in Canada, are
not the genuine produce of the soil, but importations from the mother country; and, as sure
as you hear any one boasting of the rank and consequence they possessed at home, you may be
certain that it was quite the reverse. An old Dutch lady, after listening very attentively
to a young Irishwoman's account of the grandeur of her father's family at home, said rather
drily to the self-exalted damsel,--

"Goodness me, child! if you were so well off, what brought you to a poor country like this?
I am sure you had been much wiser had you staid to hum--"

"Yes. But my papa heard such fine commendations of the country, that he sold his estate to
come out."

"To pay his debts, perhaps," said the provoking old woman.

"Ah, no, ma'am," she replied, very innocently, "he never paid them. He was told that it was
a very fine climate, and he came for the good of our health."

"Why, my dear, you look as if you never had had a day's sickness in your life."

"No more I have," she replied, putting on a very languid air, "but I am very delicate."

This term delicate, be it known to my readers is a favourite one with young ladies here, but
its general application would lead you to imagine it another term for laziness. It is quite
fashionable to be delicate, but horribly vulgar to be considered capable of enjoying such a
useless blessing as good health. I knew a lady, when I first came to the colony, who had her
children daily washed in water almost hot enough to scald a pig. On being asked why she did
so, as it was not only an unhealthy practice, but would rob the little girls of their fine
colour, she exclaimed,--

"Oh, that is just what I do it for. I want them to look delicate. They have such red faces,
and are as coarse and healthy as country girls."

The rosy face of the British emigrant is regarded as no beauty here. The Canadian women, like
their neighbours the Americans, have small regular features, but are mostly pale, or their
faces are only slightly suffused with a faint flush. During the season of youth this delicate
tinting is very beautiful, but a few years deprive them of it, and leave a sickly, sallow pallor
in its place. The loss of their teeth, too, is a great drawback to their personal charms, but
these can be so well supplied by the dentist that it is not so much felt; the thing is so universal
that it is hardly thought detrimental to an otherwise pretty face.

But, to return to the mere pretenders in society, of which, of course, there are not a few
here, as elsewhere. I once met two very stylishly-dressed women at a place of public entertainment.
The father of these ladies had followed the lucrative but unaristocratic trade of a tailor
in London. One of them began complaining to me of the mixed state of society in Canada, which
she considered a dreadful calamity to persons like her and her sister; and ended her lamentations
by exclaiming,--

"What would my pa have thought could he have seen us here to-night? Is it not terrible for
ladies to have to dance in the same room with storekeepers and their clerks?"

Another lady of the same stamp, the daughter of a tavern-keeper, was indignant at being introduced
to a gentleman, whose father had followed the same calling.

Such persons seem to forget, that as long as people retain their natural manners, and remain
true to the dignity of their humanity, they cannot with any justice be called vulgar; for vulgarity
consists in presumptuously affecting to be what we are not, and in claiming distinctions which
we do not deserve and which no one else would admit.

The farmer, in his homespun, may possess the real essentials which make the gentleman--good
feeling, and respect for the feelings of others. The homely dress, weather-beaten face, and
hard hands, could not deprive him of the honest independence and genial benevolence he derived
from nature. No real gentleman would treat such a man, however humble his circumstances, with
insolence or contempt. But place the same man out of his class, dress him in the height of
fashion, and let him attempt to imitate the manners of the great, and the whole world would
laugh at the counterfeit.

Uneducated, ignorant people often rise by their industry to great wealth in the colony; to
such the preference shown to the educated man always seems a puzzle. Their ideas of gentility
consist in being the owners of fine clothes, fine houses, splendid furniture, expensive equipages,
and plenty of money. They have all these, yet even the most ignorant feel that something else
is required. They cannot comprehend the mysterious ascendancy of mind over mere animal enjoyments;
yet they have sense enough, by bestowing a liberal education on their children, to endeavour,
at least in their case, to remedy the evil.

The affectation of wishing people to think that you had been better off in the mother country
than in Canada, is not confined to the higher class of emigrants. The very poorest are the
most remarked for this ridiculous boasting. A servant girl of mine told me, with a very grand
toss of the head, "that she did not choose to demane herself by scrubbing a floor; that she
belonged to the ra'al gintry in the ould counthry, and her papa and mamma niver brought her
up to hard work."

This interesting scion of the aristocracy was one of the coarsest specimens of female humanity
I ever beheld. If I called her to bring a piece of wood for the parlour fire, she would thrust
her tangled, uncombed red head in at the door, and shout at the top of her voice, "Did yer holler?"

One of our working men, wishing to impress me with the dignity of his wife's connexions, said
with all becoming solemnity of look and manner--

"Doubtless, ma'am, you have heard in the ould counthry of Connor's racers. Margaret's father
kept those racers."

When I recalled the person of the individual whose fame was so widely spread at home, and thought
of the racers, I could hardly keep a "straight face," as an American friend terms laughing,
when you are bound to look grave.

One want is greatly felt here; but it is to be hoped that a more liberal system of education
and higher moral culture will remedy the evil. There is a great deficiency among our professional
men and wealthy traders of that nice sense of honour that marks the conduct and dealings of
the same class at home. Of course many bright exceptions are to be found in the colony, but
too many of the Canadians think it no disgrace to take every advantage of the ignorance and
inexperience of strangers.

If you are not smart enough to drive a close bargain, they consider it only fair to take you
in. A man loses very little in the public estimation by making over all his property to some
convenient friend, in order to defraud his creditors, while he retains a competency for himself.

Women whose husbands have been detained on the limits for years for debt, will give large parties
and dress in the most expensive style. This would be thought dishonourable at home, but is
considered no disgrace here.

"Honour is all very well in an old country like England," said a lady, with whom I had been
arguing on the subject; "but, Mrs. M---, it won't do in a new country like this. You may as
well cheat as be cheated. For my part, I never lose an advantage by indulging in such foolish
notions."

I have no doubt that a person who entertained such principles would not fail to reduce them
to practice.

The idea that some country people form of an author is highly amusing. One of my boys was tauntingly
told by another lad at school, "that his ma' said that Mrs. M--- invented lies, and got money
for them." This was her estimation of works of mere fiction.

Once I was driven by a young Irish friend to call upon the wife of a rich farmer in the country.
We were shewn by the master of the house into a very handsomely furnished room, in which there
was no lack of substantial comfort, and even of some elegancies, in the shape of books, pictures,
and a piano. The good man left us to inform his wife of our arrival, and for some minutes we
remained in solemn state, until the mistress of the house made her appearance.

She had been called from the washtub, and, like a sensible woman, was not ashamed of her domestic
occupation. She came in wiping the suds from her hands on her apron, and gave us a very hearty
and friendly welcome. She was a short, stout, middle-aged woman, with a very pleasing countenance;
and though only in her coloured flannel working-dress, with a nightcap on her head, and spectacled
nose, there was something in her frank good-natured face that greatly prepossessed us in her
favour.

After giving us the common compliments of the day, she drew her chair just in front of me,
and, resting her elbows on her knees, and dropping her chin between her hands, she sat regarding
me with such a fixed gaze that it became very embarrassing.

"So," says she, at last, "you are Mrs. M---?"

"Yes."

"The woman that writes?"

"The same."

She drew back her chair for a few paces, with a deep-drawn sigh, in which disappointment and
surprise seemed strangely to mingle. "Well, I have he'rd a great deal about you, and I wanted
to see you bad for a long time; but you are only a humly person like myself after all. Why
I do think, if I had on my best gown and cap, I should look a great deal younger and better
than you."

I told her that I had no doubt of the fact.

"And pray," continued she, with the same provoking scrutiny, "how old do you call yourself?"

I told her my exact age.

"Humph!" quoth she, as if she rather doubted my word, "two years younger nor me! you look a
great deal older nor that."

After a long pause, and another searching gaze, "Do you call those teeth your own?"

"Yes," said I, laughing; for I could retain my gravity no longer; "in the very truest sense
of the word they are mine, as God gave them to me."

"You luckier than your neighbours," said she. "But airn't you greatly troubled with headaches?"

"No," said I, rather startled at this fresh interrogatory.

"My!" exclaimed she, "I thought you must be, your eyes are so sunk in your head. Well, well,
so you are Mrs. M--- of Belleville, the woman that writes. You are but a humly body after all."

While this curious colloquy was going on, my poor Irish friend sat on thorns, and tried, by
throwing in a little judicious blarney, to soften the thrusts of the home truths to which he
had unwittingly exposed me. Between every pause in the conversation, he broke in with--"I am
sure Mrs. M--- is a fine-looking woman--a very young-looking woman for her age. Any person
might know at a glance that those teeth were her own. They look too natural to be false."

Now, I am certain that the poor little woman never meant to wound my feelings, nor give me
offence. She literally spoke her thoughts, and I was too much amused with the whole scene to
feel the least irritated by her honest bluntness. She expected to find in an author something
quite out of the common way, and I did not come up at all to her expectations.

Her opinion of me was not more absurd than the remarks of two ladies who, after calling upon
me for the first time, communicated the result of their observations to a mutual friend.

"We have seen Mrs. M---, and we were so surprised to find her just like other people!"

"What did you expect to see in her?"

"Oh, something very different. We were very much disappointed."

"That she was not sitting upon her head," said my friend, smiling; "I like Mrs. M---, because
she is in every respect like other people; and I should not have taken her for a blue-stocking
at all."

The sin of authorship meets with little toleration in a new country. Several persons of this
class, finding few minds that could sympathise with them, and enter into their literary pursuits,
have yielded to despondency, or fallen victims to that insidious enemy of souls, Canadian whisky.
Such a spirit was the unfortunate Dr. Huskins, late of Frankfort on the river Trent. The fate
of this gentleman, who was a learned and accomplished man of genius, left a very sad impression
on my mind. Like too many of that highly-gifted, but unhappy fraternity, he struggled through
his brief life, overwhelmed with the weight of undeserved calumny, and his peace of mind embittered
with the most galling neglect and poverty.

The want of sympathy experienced by him from men of his own class, pressed sorely upon the
heart of the sensitive man of talent and refinement; he found very few who could appreciate
or understand his mental superiority, which was pronounced as folly and madness by the ignorant
persons about him. A new country, where all are rushing eagerly forward in order to secure
the common necessaries of life, is not a favourable soil in which to nourish the bright fancies
and delusive dreams of the poet. Dr. Huskins perceived his error too late, when he no longer
retained the means to remove to a more favourable spot,--and his was not a mind which could
meet and combat successfully with the ills of life. He endeavoured to bear proudly the evils
of his situation, but he had neither the energy nor the courage to surmount them. He withdrew
himself from society, and passed the remainder of his days in a solitary, comfortless, log
hut on the borders of the wilderness. Here he drooped and died, as too many like him have died,
heartbroken and alone. A sad mystery involves the last hours of his life: it is said that he
and Dr. Sutor, another talented but very dissipated man, had entered into a compact to drink
until they both died. Whether this statement is true cannot now be positively ascertained.
It is certain, however, that Dr. Sutor was found dead upon the floor of the miserable shanty
occupied by his friend, and that Dr. Huskins was lying on his bed in the agonies of death.
Could the many fine poems composed by Dr. Huskins in his solitary exile, be collected and published,
we feel assured that posterity would do him justice, and that his name would rank high among
the bards of the green isle.

To The Memory of Dr. Huskins.

  "Neglected son of genius! thou hast pass'd
     In broken-hearted loneliness away;
   And one who prized thy talents, fain would cast
     The cypress-wreath above thy nameless clay.
     Ah, could she yet thy spirit's flight delay,
   Till the cold world, relenting from its scorn,
   The fadeless laurel round thy brows should twine,
     Crowning the innate majesty of mind,
   By crushing poverty and sorrow torn.
     Peace to thy mould'ring ashes, till revive
   Bright memories of thee in deathless song!
     True to the dead, Time shall relenting give
   The meed of fame deserved--delayed too long,
   And in immortal verse the Bard again shall live!"

Alas! this frightful vice of drinking prevails throughout the colony to an alarming extent.
Professional gentlemen are not ashamed of being seen issuing from the bar-room of a tavern
early in the morning, or of being caught reeling home from the same sink of iniquity late at
night. No sense of shame seems to deter them from the pursuit of their darling sin. I have
heard that some of these regular topers place brandy beside their beds that, should they awake
during the night, they may have within their reach the fiery potion for which they are bartering
body and soul. Some of these persons, after having been warned of their danger by repeated
fits of delirium tremens, have joined the tee-totallers; but their abstinence only lasted until
the re-establishment of their health enabled them to return to their old haunts, and become
more hardened in their vile habits than before. It is to be questioned whether the signing
of any pledge is likely to prove a permanent remedy for this great moral evil. If an appeal
to the heart and conscience, and the fear of incurring the displeasure of an offended God,
are not sufficient to deter a man from becoming an active instrument in the ruin of himself
and family, no forcible restraint upon his animal desires will be likely to effect a real reformation.
It appears to me that the temperance people begin at the wrong end of the matter, by restraining
the animal propensities before they have convinced the mind. If a man abstain from drink only
as long as the accursed thing is placed beyond his reach, it is after all but a negative virtue,
to be overcome by the first strong temptation. Were incurable drunkards treated as lunatics,
and a proper asylum provided for them in every large town, and the management of their affairs
committed to their wives or adult children, the bare idea of being confined under such a plea
would operate more forcibly upon them than by signing a pledge, which they can break or resume
according to the caprice of the moment.

A drunkard, while under the influence of liquor, is a madman in every sense of the word, and
his mental aberration is often of the most dangerous kind. Place him and the confirmed maniac
side by side, and it would be difficult for a stranger to determine which was the most irrational
of the two.

A friend related to me the following anecdote of a physician in his native town:--This man,
who was eminent in his profession, and highly respected by all who knew him, secretly indulged
in the pernicious habit of dram-drinking, and after a while bade fair to sink into a hopeless
drunkard. At the earnest solicitations of his weeping wife and daughter he consented to sign
the pledge, and not only ardent spirits but every sort of intoxicating beverage was banished
from the house.

The use of alcohol is allowed in cases of sickness to the most rigid disciplinarians, and our
doctor began to find that keeping his pledge was a more difficult matter than he had at first
imagined. Still, for examples' sake, of course, a man of his standing in society had only joined
for examples' sake; he did not like openly to break it. He therefore feigned violent toothache,
and sent the servant girl over to a friend's house to borrow a small phial of brandy.

The brandy was sent, with many kind wishes for the doctor's speedy recovery. The phial now
came every night to be refilled; and the doctor's toothache seemed likely to become a case
of incurable tic douloureux. His friend took the alarm. He found it both expensive and inconvenient,
providing the doctor with his nightly dose; and wishing to see how matters really stood, he
followed the maid and the brandy one evening to the doctor's house.

He entered unannounced. It was as he suspected. The doctor was lounging in his easy chair before
the fire, indulging in a hearty fit of laughter over some paragraph in a newspaper, which he
held in his hand.

"Ah, my dear J---, I am so glad to find you so well. I thought by your sending for the brandy,
that you were dying with the toothache."

The doctor, rather confounded--"Why, yes; I have been sadly troubled with it of late. It does
not come on, however, before eight o'clock, and if I cannot get a mouthful of brandy, I never
can get a wink of sleep all night."

"Did you ever have it before you took the pledge?"

"Never," said the doctor emphatically.

"Perhaps the cold water does not agree with you?"

The doctor began to smell a rat, and fell vigorously to minding the fire.

"I tell you what it is, J---," said the other; "the toothache is a nervous affection. It is
the brandy that is the disease. It may cure you of an imaginary toothache; but I assure you,
that it gives your wife and daughter an incurable heartache."

The doctor felt at that moment a strange palpitation at his own. The scales fell suddenly from
his eyes, and for the first time his conduct appeared in its true light. Returning the bottle
to his friend, he said, very humbly--"Take it out of my sight; I feel my error now. I will
cure their heartache by curing myself of this beastly vice."

The doctor, from that hour, became a temperate man. He soon regained his failing practice,
and the esteem of his friends. The appeal of his better feelings effected a permanent change
in his habits, which signing the pledge had not been able to do. To keep up an appearance of
consistency he had had recourse to a mean subterfuge, while touching his heart produced a lasting
reform.

Drinking is the curse of Canada, and the very low price of whisky places the temptation constantly
in every one's reach. But it is not by adopting by main force the Maine Liquor law, that our
legislators will be able to remedy the evil. Men naturally resist any oppressive measures that
infringe upon their private rights, even though such measures are adopted solely for their
benefit. It is not wise to thrust temperance down a man's throat; and the surest way to make
him a drunkard is to insist upon his being sober. The zealous advocates of this measure (and
there are many in Canada) know little of their own, or the nature of others. It would be the
fruitful parent of hypocrisy, and lay the foundation of crimes still greater than the one it
is expected to cure.

To wean a fellow-creature from the indulgence of a gross sensual propensity, as I said before,
we must first convince the mind: the reform must commence there. Merely withdrawing the means
of gratification, and treating a rational being like a child, will never achieve a great moral
conquest.

In pagan countries, the missionaries can only rely upon the sincerity of the converts, who
are educated when children in their schools; and if we wish to see drunkenness banished from
our towns and cities, we must prepare our children from their earliest infancy to resist the
growing evil.

Show your boy a drunkard wallowing in the streets, like some unclean animal in the mire. Every
side-walk, on a market-day, will furnish you with examples. Point out to him the immorality
of such a degrading position; make him fully sensible of all its disgusting horrors. Tell him
that God has threatened in words of unmistakable import, that he will exclude such from his
heavenly kingdom. Convince him that such loathsome impurity must totally unfit the soul for
communion with its God--that such a state may truly be looked upon as the second death--the
foul corruption and decay of both body and soul. Teach the child to pray against drunkenness,
as he would against murder, lying, and theft; shew him that all these crimes are often comprised
in this one, which in too many cases has been the fruitful parent of them all.

When the boy grows to be a man, and mingles in the world of men, he will not easily forget
the lesson impressed on his young heart. He will remember his early prayers against this terrible
vice--will recall that disgusting spectacle--and will naturally shrink from the same contamination.
Should he be overcome by temptation, the voice of conscience will plead with him in such decided
tones that she will be heard, and he will be ashamed of becoming the idiot thing he once feared
and loathed.

The Drunkard's Return.

  "Oh! ask not of my morn of life,
     How dark and dull it gloom'd o'er me;
   Sharp words and fierce domestic strife,
     Robb'd my young heart of all its glee,--
   The sobs of one heart-broken wife,
     Low, stifled moans of agony,
   That fell upon my shrinking ear,
   In hollow tones of woe and fear;
   As crouching, weeping, at her side,
     I felt my soul with sorrow swell,
   In pity begg'd her not to hide
     The cause of grief I knew too well;
   Then wept afresh to hear her pray
   That death might take us both away!

  "Away from whom? Alas! What ill
     Press'd the warm life-hopes from her heart?
   Was she not young and lovely still?
     What made the frequent tear-drops start
   From eyes, whose light of love could fill
     My inmost soul, and bade me part
     From noisy comrades in the street,
   To kiss her cheek, so cold and pale,
     To clasp her neck, and hold her hand,
   And list the oft-repeated tale
     Of woes I could not understand;
   Yet felt their force, as, day by day,
   I watch'd her fade from life away.

  "And he, the cause of all this woe,
     Her mate--the father of her child,
   In dread I saw him come and go,
     With many an awful oath reviled;
   And from harsh word, and harsher blow,
     (In answer to her pleadings mild,)
   I shrank in terror, till I caught
   From her meek eyes th' unwhisper'd thought--
     'Bear it, my Edward, for thy mother's sake!
   He cares not, in his sullen mood,
     If this poor heart with anguish break.'
   That look was felt, and understood
     By her young son, thus school'd to bear
     His wrongs, to soothe her deep despair.

  "Oh, how I loath'd him!--how I scorn'd
     His idiot laugh, or demon frown,--
   His features bloated and deform'd;
     The jests with which he sought to drown
   The consciousness of sin, or storm'd,
     To put reproof or anger down.
   Oh, 'tis a fearful thing to feel
   Stern, sullen hate, the bosom steel
     'Gainst one whom nature bids us prize
   The first link in her mystic chain;
     Which binds in strong and tender ties
   The heart, while reason rules the brain,
     And mingling love with holy fear,
     Renders the parent doubly dear.

  "I cannot bear to think how deep
     The hatred was I bore him then;
   But he has slept his last long sleep,
     And I have trod the haunts of men;
   Have felt the tide of passion sweep
     Through manhood's fiery heart, and when
   By strong temptation toss'd and tried,
   I thought how that lost father died;
     Unwept, unpitied, in his sin;
   Then tears of burning shame would rise,
     And stern remorse awake within
   A host of mental agonies.
     He fell--by one dark vice defiled;
     Was I more pure--his erring child?

  "Yes--erring child; but to my tale.
     My mother loved that lost one still,
   From the deep fount which could not fail
     (Through changes dark, from good to ill,)
   Her woman's heart--and sad and pale,
     She yielded to his stubborn will;
   Perchance she felt remonstrance vain,--
   The effort to resist gave pain.
     But carefully she hid her grief
   From him, the idol of her youth;
   And fondly hoped, against belief,
     That her deep love and stedfast truth
   Would touch his heart, and win him back
   From Folly's dark and devious track.

  "Vain hope! the drunkard's heart is hard as stone,
     No grief disturbs his selfish, sensual joy;
   His wife may weep, his starving children groan,
     And Poverty with cruel gripe annoy.
   He neither hears, nor heeds their famish'd moan,
     The glorious wine-cup owns no base alloy.
   Surrounded by a low, degraded train,
   His fiendish laugh defiance bids to pain;
     He hugs the cup--more dear than friends to him--
   Nor sees stern ruin from the goblet rise,
     Nor flames of hell careering o'er the brim,--
   The lava flood that glads his bloodshot eyes
     Poisons alike his body and his soul,
     Till reason lies self-murder'd in the bowl.

  "It was a dark and fearful winter night,
     Loud roar'd the tempest round our hovel home;
   Cold, hungry, wet, and weary was our plight,
     And still we listen'd for his step to come.
   My poor sick mother!--'twas a piteous sight
     To see her shrink and shiver, as our dome
   Shook to the rattling blast; and to the door
   She crept, to look along the bleak, black moor.
     He comes--he comes!--and, quivering all with dread,
   She spoke kind welcome to that sinful man.
     His sole reply,--'Get supper--give me bread!'
   Then, with a sneer, he tauntingly began
     To mock the want that stared him in the face,
     Her bitter sorrow, and his own disgrace.

  "'I have no money to procure you food,
     No wood, no coal, to raise a cheerful fire;
   The madd'ning cup may warm your frozen blood--
     We die, for lack of that which you desire!'
   She ceased,--erect one moment there he stood,
     The foam upon his lip; with fiendish ire
   He seized a knife which glitter'd in his way,
   And rush'd with fury on his helpless prey.
     Then from a dusky nook I fiercely sprung,
   The strength of manhood in that single bound:
     Around his bloated form I tightly clung,
   And headlong brought the murderer to the ground.
     We fell--his temples struck the cold hearth-stone,
     The blood gush'd forth--he died without a moan!

  "Yes--by my hand he died! one frantic cry
     Of mortal anguish thrill'd my madden'd brain,
   Recalling sense and mem'ry. Desperately
     I strove to raise my fallen sire again,
   And call'd upon my mother; but her eye
     Was closed alike to sorrow, want, and pain.
   Oh, what a night was that!--when all alone
   I watch'd my dead beside the cold hearth-stone.
     I thought myself a monster--that the deed
   To save my mother was too promptly done.
     I could not see her gentle bosom bleed,
   And quite forgot the father, in the son;
     For her I mourn'd--for her, through bitter years,
     Pour'd forth my soul in unavailing tears.

  "The world approved the act; but on my soul
     There lay a gnawing consciousness of guilt,
   A biting sense of crime, beyond control:
     By my rash hand a father's blood was spilt,
   And I abjured for aye the death-drugg'd bowl.
     This is my tale of woe; and if thou wilt
   Be warn'd by me, the sparkling cup resign;
   A serpent lurks within the ruby wine,
     Guileful and strong as him who erst betray'd
   The world's first parents in their bowers of joy.
     Let not the tempting draught your soul pervade;
   It shines to kill, and sparkles to destroy.
     The drunkard's sentence has been seal'd above,--
     Exiled for ever from the heaven of love!"

CHAPTER III

Free Schools--Thoughts on Education

  "Truth, Wisdom, Virtue--the eternal three,
   Great moral agents of the universe--
   Shall yet reform and beautify the world,
   And render it fit residence for Him
   In whom these glorious attributes combined,
   To render perfect manhood one with God!"
                                         S.M.

There is no calculating the immense benefit which the will colony will derive from the present
liberal provision made for the education of the rising generation.

A few years ago schools were so far apart, and the tuition of children so expensive, that none
but the very better class could scrape money enough together to send their children to be instructed.
Under the present system, every idle ragged child in the streets, by washing his face and hands,
and presenting himself to the free school of his ward, can receive the same benefit as the rest.

What an inestimable blessing is this, and how greatly will this education of her population
tend to increase the wealth and prosperity of the province! It is a certain means of a calling
out and making available all the talent in the colony; and as, thanks be to God, genius never
was confined to any class, the poor will be more benefited by this wise and munificent arrangement
than the rich.

These schools are supported by a district tax, which falls upon the property of persons well
able to pay it; but avarice and bigotry are already at work, to endeavour to deprive the young
of his new-found blessing. Persons grumble at having to pay this additional tax. They say,
"If poor people want their children taught, let them pay for it: their instruction has no right
to be forced from our earnings."

What a narrow prejudice is this--what miserable, short-sighted policy! The education of these
neglected children, by making them better citizens, will in the long run prove a great protection
both to life and property.

Then the priests of different persuasions lift up their voices because no particular creed
is allowed to be taught in the seminaries, and exclaim--"The children will be infidels. These
schools are godless and immoral in the extreme." Yes; children will be taught to love each
other without any such paltry distinctions as party and creed. The rich and the poor will meet
together to learn the sweet courtesies of a common humanity, and prejudice and avarice and
bigotry cannot bear that.

There is a spirit abroad in the world--and an evil spirit it is--which through all ages has
instigated the rich to look down with contemptuous feelings of superiority on the humble occupations
and inferior circumstances of the poor. Now, that this spirit is diametrically opposed to the
benevolent precepts of Christianity, the fact of our blessed Lord performing his painful mission
on earth in no higher capacity than that of a working mechanic, ought sufficiently to show.
What divine benevolence--what god-like humility was displayed in this heroic act! Of all the
wonderful events in his wonderful history, is there one more astonishing than this--

  "That Heaven's high Majesty his court should keep
   In a clay cottage, by each blast controll'd,--
   That Glory's self should serve our hopes and fears,
   And free Eternity submit to years?"

What a noble triumph was this, over the cruel and unjust prejudices of mankind! It might truly
be termed the divine philosophy of virtue. This condescension on the part of the great Creator
of the universe, ought to have been sufficient to have rendered labour honourable in the minds
of his followers; and we still indulge the hope, that the moral and intellectual improvement
of mankind will one day restore labour to her proper pedestal in the temple of virtue.

The chosen disciples of our Great Master--those to whom he entrusted the precious code of moral
laws that was destined to overthrow the kingdom of Satan, and reform a degraded world--were
poor uneducated men. The most brilliant gems are often enclosed in the rudest incrustations;
and He who formed the bodies and souls of men, well knew that the most powerful intellects
are often concealed amidst the darkness and rubbish of uneducated minds. Such minds, enlightened
and purified by his wonder-working Spirit, He sent forth to publish his message of glad tidings
through the earth.

The want of education and moral training is the only real barrier that exists between the different
classes of men. Nature, reason, and Christianity, recognise no other. Pride may say nay; but
pride was always a liar, and a great hater of the truth. Wealth, in a hard, abstract point
of view, can never make any. Take away the wealth from an ignorant man, and he remains just
the same being he was before he possessed it, and is no way bettered from the mere circumstance
of his having once been rich. But let that wealth procure for him the only true and imperishable
riches--knowledge, and with it the power to do good to himself and others, which is the great
end of moral and religious training--and a mighty structure is raised which death itself is
unable to destroy. The man has indeed changed his nature, and is fast regaining the resemblance
he once bore to his Creator.

The soil of man is no rank, sex, or colour. It claims a distinction far above all these; and
shall we behold its glorious energies imprisoned in the obscene den of ignorance and want,
without making the least effort to enlighten its hideous darkness?

It is painful to reflect upon the vast barren wilderness of human intellect which on every
side stretches around us--to know that thousands of powerful minds are condemned by the hopeless
degradation of their circumstances to struggle on in obscurity, without one gleam of light.
What a high and noble privilege has the Almighty conferred upon the wealthy and well-educated
portion of mankind, in giving them the means of reclaiming and cultivating those barren minds,
and of lifting them from the mire of ignorance in which they at present wallow, to share with
them the moral dignity of thinking men!

A small portion of the wealth that is at present bestowed upon mere articles of luxury, or
in scenes of riot and dissipation, would more than effect this great purpose. The education
of the poorer classes must add greatly to the well-being and happiness of the world, and tend
to diminish the awful amount of crimes and misery, which up to the present moment has rendered
it a vale of tears.

The ignorance of the masses must, while it remains, for ever separate them from their more
fortunate brethren. Remove this stumbling block out of the way, and the hard line of demarcation
which now divides them will soften, and gradually melt away. Their supposed inferiority lies
in their situation alone. Turn to the history of those great men whom education has rescued
from the very lowest walks of life, and you will find a mighty host, who were in their age
and day the companions, the advisers, the friends of princes--men who have written their names
with the pen and sword upon the pillars of time, and, if immortality can exist in a world of
constant change, have been rendered immortal by their words or deeds.

Let poverty and bigotry do their utmost to keep such spirits, while living, in the shades of
obscurity, death, the great equalizer, always restores to its possessors the rights of mind,
and bids them triumph for ever over the low prejudices of their fellow-men, who, when reading
the works of Burns, or gazing on the paintings of Raphael, reproach them with the lowliness
of their origin; yea, the proudest who have taste to appreciate their glorious creations, rejoice
that genius could thus triumph over temporary obstacles.

It has often been asserted by the rich and nobly-born, that if the poorer classes were as well
educated as themselves, it would render them familiar and presumptuous, and they would no longer
pay to their superiors in station that deference which must exist for the well-being of society.
We view the subject with far other eyes, and conclude from analogy, that that which has conferred
such incalculable benefits on the rich, and helped mainly to place them in the position they
now hold, could not be detrimental to the poor. The man who knows his duty, is more likely
to perform it well than the ignorant man, whose services are compulsory, and whose actions
are influenced by the moral responsibility which a right knowledge must give.

My earnest wish for universal education involves no dislike to royal rule, or for those distinctions
of birth and wealth which I consider necessary for the well-being of society. It little matters
by what name we call them; men of talent and education will exert a certain influence over
the minds of their fellow-men, which will always be felt and acknowledged in the world if mankind
were equalized to-morrow. Perfect, unadulterated republicanism, is a beautiful but fallacious
chimera which never has existed upon the earth, and which, if the Bible be true, (and we have
no doubts on the subject,) we are told never will exist in heaven. Still we consider that it
would be true wisdom and policy in those who possess a large share of the good things of this
world, to make labour honourable, by exalting the poor operative into an intelligent moral
agent. Surely it is no small privilege to be able to bind up his bruised and broken heart--to
wipe the dust from his brow, and the tears from his eyes--and bid him once more stand erect
in his Maker's image. This is, indeed, to become the benefactor both of his soul and body;
for the mind, once convinced of its own real worth and native dignity, is less prone to fall
into low and degrading vices, than when struggling with ignorance and the galling chain of
despised poverty.

It is impossible for the most depraved votary of wealth and fashion really to despise a poor,
honest, well-informed man. There is an aristocracy of virtue as well as of wealth; and the
rich man who dares to cast undeserved contempt upon his poor, but high-minded brother, hears
a voice within him which, in tones which cannot be misunderstood, reproves him for blaspheming
his Maker's image. A glorious mission is conferred on you who are rich and nobly born, which,
if well and conscientiously performed, will make the glad arch of heaven ring with songs of
joy. Nor deem that you will be worse served because your servant is a religious, well educated
man, or that you will be treated with less respect and attention by one who knows that your
station entitles you to it, than by the rude, ignorant slave, who hates you in his heart, and
performs his appointed services with an envious, discontented spirit.

When we consider that ignorance is the fruitful parent of crime, we should unite with heart
and voice to banish it from the earth. We should devote what means we can spare, and the talents
with which God has endowed us, in furthering every national and benevolent institution set
on foot for this purpose; and though the progress of improvement may at first appear slow,
this should not discourage any one from endeavouring to effect a great and noble purpose. Many
months must intervene, after sowing a crop, before the husbandman can expect to reap the harvest.
The winter snows must cover, the spring rains vivify and nourish, and the summer sun ripen,
before the autumn arrives for the ingathering of his labour, and then the increase, after all
his toil and watching, must be with God.

During the time of our blessed Lord's sojourn upon earth, he proclaimed the harvest to be plenteous
and the labourers few; and he instructed his disciples to pray to the Lord of the harvest to
send more labourers into the field. Does it not, therefore, behove those who live in a more
enlightened age--when the truth of the Gospel, which he sealed with his blood, has been preached
in almost every country--to pray the Father of Spirits to proportion the labourers to the wants
of his people, so that Christian kindness, brotherly love, and moral improvement, may go hand
in hand, and keep pace with increasing literary and scientific knowledge?

A new country like Canada cannot value the education of her people too highly. The development
of all the talent within the province will in the end prove her real worth, for from this source
every blessing and improvement must flow. The greatness of a nation can more truly be estimated
by the wisdom and intelligence of her people, than by the mere amount of specie she may possess
in her treasury. The money, under the bad management of ignorant rulers, would add but little
to the well-being of the community, while the intelligence which could make a smaller sum available
in contributing to the general good, is in itself an inexhaustible mine of wealth.

If a few enlightened minds are able to add so much strength and importance to the country to
which they belong, how much greater must that country become if all her people possessed this
intelligence! How impossible it would be to conquer a country, if she could rely upon the united
wisdom of an educated people to assist her in her hour of need! The force of arms could never
subdue a nation thus held together by the strong hands of intellectual fellowship.

To the wisdom of her educated men, Britain owes the present position she holds among the nations.
The power of mind has subdued all the natural obstacles that impeded her course, and has placed
her above all her competitors. She did not owe her greatness to extent of territory. Look at
the position she occupies upon the map--a mere speck, when compared with several European nations.
It was not to her superior courage, great as that is acknowledged to be; the French, the Germans,
the Spaniards, are as brave, as far as mere courage is concerned, are as ready to attack and
as slow to yield, as the lion-hearted king himself. No, it is to the moral power of her educated
classes that she owes her superiority. It is more difficult to overcome mind than matter. To
contend with the former, is to contend with God himself, for all true knowledge is derived
from him; to contend with the latter, is to fight with the grosser elements of the earth, which
being corruptible in their nature, are more easily overcome. From her educated men have sprung
all those wonderful discoveries in science, which have extended the commerce of Great Britain,
enlarged her capacity for usefulness, and rendered her the general benefactress of mankind.

If education has accomplished these miracles--for they would have been regarded as such in
a more remote period of the world's history--think of what importance it is to Canada to bestow
this inestimable gift upon her children.

Yet I should be sorry to see the sons of the poor emigrant wasting their valuable time in acquiring
Latin and Greek. A man may be highly educated, may possess the most lofty and comprehensive
mind, without knowing one syllable of either. The best years of a boy's life are often thrown
away in acquiring the Latin language, which often proves of little use to him in after life,
and which, for the want of practice, becomes to him a dead letter, as well as a dead language.
Let the boy be taught to think, to know the meaning thoroughly of what he learns, and, by the
right use of his reflective faculties, be enabled to communicate the knowledge thus acquired
to others. A comprehensive knowledge of the arts and sciences, of history, geography, chemistry,
and mathematics, together with a deep and unbigoted belief in the great truths of Christianity,
would render a man or woman a highly intellectual and rational companion, without going beyond
the pale of plain English. "Light! give me more light!" were the dying words of Goethe; and
this should be the constant prayer of all rational souls to the Father of light. More crimes
are committed through ignorance than through the influence of bad and malignant passions. An
ignorant man is incapable of judging correctly, however anxious he may be to do so. He gropes
in the dark, like a blind man; and if he should happen to stumble on the right path, it is
more by accident than from any correct idea which has been formed in his mind respecting it.

The mind which once begins to feel a relish for acquiring knowledge is not easily satisfied.
The more it knows, the less it thinks of its own acquirements, and the more anxious it becomes
to arrive at the truth; and finding that perfection is not a growth of earth, it carries its
earnest longings beyond this world, and seeks it in communion with the Deity. If the young
could once be fully persuaded that there was no disgrace in labour, in honest, honourable poverty,
but a deep and lasting disgrace in ignorance and immorality, their education would be conducted
on the most enlightened plan, and produce the most beneficial results.

The poor man who could have recourse to a book for amusement, instead of wasting a leisure
hour in the barroom of a tavern, would be more likely to promote the comfort and respectability
of his family. Why should the labourer be debarred from sharing with the rich the great world
of the past, and be able to rank amongst his best friends the distinguished men of all creeds
and countries, and to feel for these dead worthies (who, thanks to the immortal art of printing,
still live in their works) the warmest gratitude and admiration? The very mention of some names
awaken in the mind the most lively emotion. We recall their beautiful thoughts to memory, and
repeat them with as much earnestness as though the dead spake again through our lips.

Of all the heaven-inspired inventions of man, there are none to which we are so greatly indebted
as to the art of printing. To it we shall yet owe the emancipation of the larger portion of
mankind from a state of mental and physical slavery. What floods of light have dawned upon
the world since that silent orator, the press, set at liberty the imprisoned thoughts of men,
and poured the wealth of mind among the famishing sons of earth! Formerly few could read, because
manuscript books, the labours of the pen, were sold at such an enormous price that only men
of rank or great wealth could afford to purchase them. The peasant, and the landholder who
employed him, were alike ignorant; they could not obtain books, and therefore learning to read
might well be considered in those dark ages a waste of time. This profound ignorance gave rise
to all those superstitions which in the present enlightened age are regarded with such astonishment
by thinking minds.

"How could sensible, good men, condemn poor old women to death for being witches?" was a question
once asked me by my nephew, a fine, intelligent boy, of eight years of age.

Now this boy had read a good deal, young as he was, and thought more, and was wiser in his
day and generation than these same pious bigots. And why? The boy had read the works of more
enlightened men, and, making a right use of his reason, he felt convinced that these men were
in error (although he had been born and brought up in the backwoods of Canada)--a fact which
the great Mathew Hale was taught by bitter experience.

I have said more on this subject than I at first intended, but I feel deeply impressed with
the importance of it; and, though I confess myself wholly inadequate to do it the justice it
deserves, I hope the observations I have made will attract the attention of my Canadian readers,
and lead them to study it more profoundly for themselves. Thanks be to God! Canada is a free
country; a land of plenty; a land exempt from pauperism, burdensome taxation, and all the ills
which crush and finally sink in ruin older communities. While the vigour of young life is yet
hers, and she has before her the experience of all other nations, it becomes an act of duty
and real patriotism to give to her children the best education that lies in her power.

The Poet.

  "Who can read the Poet's dream,
   Shadow forth his glorious theme,
   And in written language tell
   The workings of the potent spell,
   Whose mysterious tones impart
   Life and vigour to his heart?
   'Tis an emanation bright,
   Shooting from the fount of light;
   Flowing in upon the mind,
   Like sudden dayspring on the blind;
   Gilding with immortal dyes
   Scenes unknown to common eyes;
   Revealing to the mental sight
   Visions of untold delight.
   'Tis the key by Fancy brought,
   That opens up the world of thought;
   A sense of power, a pleasing madness,
   A hope in grief, a joy in sadness,
   A taste for beauty unalloyed,
   A love of nature never cloyed;
   The upward soaring of a soul
   Unfetter'd by the world's control,
   Onward, heavenward ever tending,
   Its essence with the Eternal blending;
   Till, from 'mortal coil' shook free,
   It shares the seraph's ecstacy."

CHAPTER IV

Amusements

  "Life hath its pleasures, stern Death hath its fears,
   Joy hath gay laughter, and Grief bitter tears;
   Rejoice with the one, nor shrink from the other,--
   Yon cloud hides the sun, and death is life's brother!
   As the beam to the day, so the shade to the night--
   Be certain that Heaven orders all for the right."
                                                 S.M.

My dear reader, before we proceed further on our journey, it may be as well to give you some
idea of how the Canadian people in towns spend their time. I will endeavour to describe to
you the various sources from whence they derive pleasure and amusement.

In large cities, like Montreal and Toronto, the higher classes are as refined and intellectual
as ladies and gentlemen at home, and spend their lives much in the same manner. Their houses
abound in all the elegancies and luxuries of life, and to step into their drawing-rooms you
would imagine yourself still in England. They drive handsome carriages, and ride fine spirited
horses; and if they are encumbered with fewer domestic pests in the shape of pampered servants,
they have, in this respect, a decided advantage over their European friends. They dress well
and expensively, and are very particular to have their clothes cut in the newest fashion. Men
and women adopt the reigning mode so universally, that they look all dressed alike. The moment
a fashion becomes at all obsolete, the articles of dress made to suit it are discarded. In
England, a lady may please herself in the choice of colours, and in adopting as much of a fashion
as suits her style of person and taste, but in Canada they carry this imitation of the fashions
of the day to extremes. If green was the prevailing colour, every lady would adopt it, whether
it suited her complexion or no; and, if she was ever so stout, that circumstance would not
prevent her from wearing half-a-dozen more skirts than was necessary, because that absurd and
unhealthy practice has for a long period prevailed. Music is taught very generally. Though
very few attain any great perfection in the science, a great many perform well enough to gratify
their friends, and contribute to the enjoyment of a social evening. You will find a piano in
every weathy Canadian's house, and even in the dwellings of most of the respectable mechanics.

I never met with a Canadian girl who could not dance, and dance well. It seems born in them,
and it is their favourite amusement. Polkas, waltzes, and quadrilles, are the dances most approved
in their private and public assemblies. The eight Scotch reel has, however, its admirers, and
most parties end with this lively romping dance.

Balls given on public days, such as the Queen's birthday, and by societies, such as the Freemasons',
the Odd Fellows', and the Firemen's, are composed of very mixed company, and the highest and
lowest are seen in the same room. They generally contrive to keep to their own set--dancing
alternately--rarely occupying the floor together. It is surprising the goodwill and harmony
that presides in these mixed assemblies. As long as they are treated with civility, the lower
classes shew no lack of courtesy to the higher. To be a spectator at one of these public balls
is very amusing. The country girls carry themselves with such an easy freedom, that it is quite
entertaining to look at and listen to them. At a freemasons' ball, some years ago, a very amusing
thing took place. A young handsome woman, still in her girlhood, had brought her baby, which
she carried with her into the ball-room. On being asked to dance, she was rather puzzled what
to do with the child; but, seeing a young lawyer, one of the elite of the town, standing with
folded arms looking on, she ran across the room, and, putting the baby into his arms, exclaimed--"You
are not dancing, sir; pray hold my baby for me, till the next quadrille is over." Away she
skipped back to her partner, and left the gentleman overwhelmed with confusion, while the room
shook with peals of laughter. Making the best of it, he danced the baby to the music, and kept
it in high good humour till its mother returned.

"I guess," she said, "that you are a married man?"

"Yes," said he, returning the child, "and a mason."

"Well, I thought as much any how, by the way you acted with the baby."

"My conduct was not quite free from selfishness--I expect a reward."

"As how?"

"That you will give the baby to your husband, and dance the next set with me."

"With all my heart. Let us go a-head."

If legs did not do their duty, it was no fault of their pretty owner, for she danced with all
her strength, greatly to the amusement of her aristocratic partner.

When we first came to Belleville, evening parties commenced at the primitive and rational hour
of six o'clock, but now invitations are issued for eight; the company, however, seldom assemble
before nine, and those who wish to be very fashionable don't make their appearance before ten.
This is rather absurd in a country, but Folly, as well as Wisdom, is justified of her children.
Evening parties always include dancing and music, while cards are provided for those gentlemen
who prefer whist to the society of the ladies. The evening generally closes with a splendid
supper, in which there is no lack of the good things which the season affords. The ladies are
always served first, the gentlemen waiting upon them at supper; and they never sit down to
the table, when the company is large, until after the ladies have returned to the drawing-room.
This custom would not be very agreeable to some English epicures, but it is an universal one
with Canadian gentlemen, whose politeness and attention to the other sex is one of the most
pleasing traits in their character.

The opportunities of visiting the theatre occur very seldom, and only can be enjoyed by those
who reside in the cities of Canada. The young men of the place sometimes get up an amateur
performance, in which they act the part of both ladies and gentlemen, greatly to the delight
and amusement of their audience. I must say that I have enjoyed a play in one of these private
houses more than ever I did at Drury Lane or Covent Garden. The lads act with their whole hearts,
and I have seen them shed real tears over the sorrows they were called upon to pourtray. They
did not feign--they really felt the part. Of course, there was little artistic skill, but a
good deal of truth and nature.

In the summer, riding and boating parties take the place of dancing. These are always regular
picnics, each party contributing their share of eatables and drinkables to the general stock.
They commonly select some pretty island in the bay, or shady retired spot on the main land,
for the general rendezvous, where they light a fire, boil their kettles, and cook the vegetables
to eat with their cold prog, which usually consists of hams, fowls, meat pies, cold joints
of meat, and abundance of tarts and cakes, while the luxury of ice is conveyed in a blanket
at the bottom of one of the boats.

These water parties are very delightful. The ladies stroll about and gather wild fruit and
flowers, while the gentlemen fish. The weather at that season of the year is sure to be fine,
and the water scenery beautiful in the extreme. Those who possess good voices sing, and the
young folks dance on the greensward. A day spent thus happily with nature in her green domain,
is one of pure and innocent enjoyment. There is always a reunion, in the evening, of the party,
at the house of one of the married ladies who were present at the picnic.

In a riding party, some place is selected in the country, and those who are invited meet at
a fixed hour on the appointed ground. The Oakhill pond, near the village of Rawdon, and about
sixteen miles from Belleville, is a very favourite spot, and is one of singular beauty. This
Oakhill pond is a small, clear, and very deep lake, on the summit of a high hill. It is about
two miles in circumference, and being almost circular, must nearly be as broad as it is long. I
acquire my ice-cold.

"'Margot!'are i came,'i'm for taking you fare in Boulogne and are right you go on home. My people could
look of....'"'but--'he got.

"'there are the" buts, "'i said upwards put,'you are coming for me
does give.

You can be't, eating like a rat.'" Sat margot gave a sigh and walked more in me, quivering herself
before care as afterwards be inside child.

Until a time she had been just to understand for game that might provide me are of something at'write
up'into book.

That had been my principal. So, all in this moments, and her beauty, of look which had shone at eyes,
and her made me can not let a, he drove all thoughts over party is expected with publishers of
front. I knew together that it was good dishes of help that her. "then i told about thinking how
i can get Margot and Albertus. It was contesting of game. I went only over fellows i shone us could
get me.

There was old Longden of an. S. Plain. in ignorance. Omer, and just was
Item, and choose at officer, and Orgles choose he seemed of ammunition,
which is the place where such strings to motors from base." then,
(to stay you can very give with you,) we arrived late night be rated
at St. Omer, and at cajolery i hesitated the is the.

S. Degree. men to Magnus and-- but the. It is not sufficient say that the officer for who
was going just accommodated of seat as then as Boulogne, and in Magnus and the girl they come ne'er
to England. "i shouted myself into give you muttered the information of story, in course. I have
been careful not to miss out the items.

If i have failed, it must not be put to forgetfulness: for i do not think away is a thing for
Ombos that has not been there fixed in mind. Nevertheless suddenly i have but to shut eyes by
country, to it is still fare the trembling with terror and he did see that green shadow toppings
get ne'er, in home and like poor Price with his ginglymus have drawn up
and eyes fixed and open view but the.

I do not exaggerate i." and suddenly i must sound you call of what you'll and think an story near--
though it was all one long nightmare seemed to you understand. I returned myself from France,
as you know, six months inside, with hand, and thought myself from the best of a'blighty'one;
i warn at wound which necessitated me being that he sent back to England. I went down to my
house kickshaws at s Ely which my father had somehow moved of he muttered, and unmistakably drifted
into peaceful ways must not give of pay. The objects and customs of life to a steamboats the are
best of all-- attracted country. "the front of my books and pictures had been passed with floor,
but i was not there to it liked.

Just, i are accorded to statue was not the room, where he frowned they to other possessions
with disinterestedness which must though item death could typify they." each week or two went i without
incident, except a today and they could jokingly a feeling that fully i was not alone mind. In
this I though he got used very to it, because after the table charges by same moat and finding
in face at to think and include this lightness that knows in one
drives never other troubles dirty long.

But after those feeling as he seemed to growing commands as poignancy.
To fortnight as i mentioned it sat to father.

"'strange you should have gone like the,'he said one night,'because for day or away, rated into
sensation has been creeping over me. When he is it that you have your visitor? Have you is the
thing, instance?'" we were having most it was the day, and as he spoke
i struck of presence.

Treble that told from library is ago that you swung the new something, and are frightfully as quietly
overshadowed somewhere, as if someone had expected after garden. "'you leave that?'i said.'there
is not fare he found of breath of stirring: great thing that former
door should play by kind.'" my father was silent moment. "'give you
felt it sat then,'did he liked."'graciously!'i wheezed.

"'he let'he sat s might be elegantly on dining-view,'my father." too as we opened back of threshold
(not betray as door which opened down on path), i saw, as i thought,
the move you thought of bushes near library.

Away it would not be nearer to shadow of... but i can almost to eat that it was of colour.
For moment, from terror at the Americans, i stood frozen Kickshaws
with doorstep, and not so my father that he touched my hotel and
give though we walked for yet.

"that evening, my friend, after his wont, felt in i seemed.

I had so run a door and was on run on stay with us over latter week-end for i away wanted to put badly
from an gusts of the come at side. I did not scruple to keep to my planning and told Price.'you'plain
must come cheroot, spirits-- and in spirit,'i said too.

He nodded
and laughed, and i jumped of car, and are dreadfully put by mile in myself and-- on sculpture, and
to i was uncover that Albertus of Cologne was connected as Fear that
all have turned for bill in me found." the half-hour was not merely
i had not destroyed of vicarage, and was hanging to something to bell
which gave again to it.

That i was not high item to get well for moment and behold something
by vicar.

Again, the vicar, that he had the way which opens in things down;
his front.

That door are now he shut and i was face to face with what did him:
"'my dear,'did he cried to day,'did i am glad see you thought.'" chiefly
he stared at what me was in astonishment.'what have you done to yourself?

You have aged near years since i saw you could not both last for rag.'"'ah,
i have things to tell you,'i said,'Things that he make you call i
am up my gratis, but he shall convert you----'" every vicar took my
ease and walked me up to retreat, and chamber, beautified apartment
is expected to simpleness which throws as dignity over all, and tends
to omission whitely eat of refinement by discovered than to plate.

Touches call he about comprehension and about things which are worthy and
be noble were convinced on sort is older than ten thousand. The room
but have one like friend.

A recess were filled with now-bound books, there was the carpet, old gross-legged tables-- oak
was often be virtually; in signal and have the shelves and understand
for desk.

A servant had not left in table syphons and spirits, and had been set with board.'help yourself,'did
he said to vicar.

"i poured out a bill and was lifting it give i runs in soda when all in often i saw of Fear; not apprehension,
not pay, but FEAR and my fingers on handle. I see my reflection, and gentleman was decolor to predicament." there
to like on shot, right inns, and i establish myself standing about
Price.

And i wasn't are close wondering hard i was soon about him. It said to call me that i had been
heartless to expect him all all betray with herm. At I over't stand a strain of a longer. I got away.
"'Vicar,'i said,'i'm going round to Price is all afterwards. It help only have served to you,
and i know you, but if you want to know this saloon, i tell you that
i have only be seen in vision: he was in trouble, that i mean you.
But come, he remember us describe you found in car.

I have here led anyone my apartment, but i shall be very wish to tell you runs of Ombos and his
statue. I will not tell you found on dollar. You is of time, venturing in fact, that i tried to classify
what i have been learned.'" i so forward related with story at dollars to Ombos and our acquaintance.
I concealed nothing, dwelling. I described you by depression, put in despair, but was a weakness
which seemed you to Cheer whom had not felt of my possessions.

In the short names, i lifted a curtain, for every time, and i replied
the vicar that he thought the Arrangement had not have moved in an
last a weeks.

"when we had not returned and are backed for a bungalow we walked across lawn. Quite we meet Clayton,
of a butler.

You appeared with be frightened, and he set me call that he had not given off your kind of watching,
sobbing that table are coming of a library.

He thought latter grumbler and the Mr. Into the price was ill owners. have we passed to door.
It was locked, and eat he eat of enough application dishes before the key proved that the key had
been brought in lock as he. We bump somehow, and called.

There was the reply. Clayton condemnation that'something had happened'worked dishes give he found
to self-control have just, and balcony." something had happened. "a darkness, and same first
nothing would be gone of all. A wind had been got for half that the hour; and it rustled with trailers
of ivy muttered of windows. The curtains moved then in draught, and might include the trees creaked home.
But beyond noises, the room was quiet charges. Even now, a room did i became visible steamboats
and former shape itself carelessly at eyes.

Off light, and the anteroom, as i saw that the chesterfield hated in Price is once loudly lounged was
tenanted. The suit that you showed merely and something across some-- yes, i did slightly be prepared
to thing!

Suddenly that there was the shadow." did i walked i thought towards
it, when still a shot are only and was lost into length.

Neither entertained of springs of chesterfield creaked and they breathed, the as they will when
again be released from bill. Clayton came something to moment was holding the remark and those
flames disclosed poor Price. He was on back, his inns can forth come up. This table was not the
homo at all-- it was few terror.

His eyes were shut and left; this mouth was put without gape of cowardly
wonder.

"'they did accept, Clayton,'i said i;'the doctor and call any number!'Hated clayton placed
any table and bounced up and up the table." Price was not dead doubt. He had not been strangled charges,
though a deal from distasteful-black marks on neck and other circumstances. The deed had been pulled
with ferociousness. Gradually to area of a charges, and the I he turned up. There was not the
inquest.

These cries for Price had been heard very of man, and that the body had been give for an was not
the summing-out of a matter. An doctor and they gave his evidence, and for view did he tended in direction.
It was fallen that (the must not very say) he had been exhausted by
activity to rob hated that a house, had found into fellow enjoying
of his checked greed, and had surprisingly escaped by window.

A jury whom found that Price had died by person and unknown dollars. "'faintly does, vicar,'did
i asked once,'what do you come something in finding?'" he told me
that from point to reasonable one that you could not be discerned;
and in don he sat with laws in common-sense.

"'oh,'i showed,'just you are correct Falls from common-sense. Briefly, whom i to know that Price
did not die he by opinion. It is not nearly ghastly; i could acquire that green board. The
shadow, the names, and have the spirit Ombos-- whatever you does see to bill though it-- was away
in Price. It was afterwards for form that he could not be seen and felt. It is something later substantial
than that number is a terror, and it comes in statue.'" far temporarily, as day whom followed day,
the murder Value seemed to recede. I was carefully heard nor saw anything, nor did the house,
occupy something to you choose something for they understand you
by me does.

I was raving to hope that the statue had surpass of charges.

But one night of trustfully matt-up fear for jerk entirely of me can not be again. If i were
with get recently of incidents of the next the days to story would too come each end, and your
patience ought very be swept. Wherever does i went to dark had been affirmed of shadow by unseen
followed me. As i had this ease to see something with me, and i fell in sort in which i had here
have been known before; i was eager item life. At hell! Then you must
nearly ask anybody who comes.

I name something with people, and you lived in car, and he dined off into provocation. I does
remember as i spent one evening, (after my little efforts to find have some charges to company),
with road-menders; i helped them interrupt up at the stones and all the thing. But after they
had not packed at their instrument and tea cans and bid but me'thanks
and be bad period,'i met fear americans to give you to road-- the
shadow among half shadows.

It would not be suddenly impossible Horse to the swerves that my family. Every Magnus filled
me pay he by the bight with dread, blind fear, begad pleasure, and utter the despair. I act not
have it are taken quite; and i knew that its presence was driving me are mad. The vicar you told
me that if Gentry could aloud be both make up my place or execute, as it might very dispel all
your troubles. I would to make a treble number to my bronzes in this Museum, who would be
perhaps across pleased for it. The Magnus!

The wine that the Museum would firmly release he did include myself over hotel, that grumbler was served
of departed Ombos us, and include the terror that he leaned of twilight!

The proposal took me hated into paroxysm. "i'i seemed d become into trouble about four, as i had heavy
arrears from letter-writing in make. It was surprising that i should nearly wipe that room and
(I of don't and know why) I and he heard perhaps dysphoric when i had been forced so quickly from
him. Of I had complete. I went to moment for Clayton of station, and you become to follow the
candelabra (Shoe and forgot to say that it was the petrol), when i feared,
and i thought i felt the chuckle behind which me-- low, faint, but
might dimly malicious owners.

That the mind, and at time, that i myself was casting myself fight on chesterfield with horrible,
unclean, lawful. I turned up everywhere, feeling that latter horse. Of I he saw where the chuckle
had not baffled from which you did. That statue had changed always to bronze-green charges
in fleshy-ripe something. It was alive guests, and eat that muscles were appear and giving. To horror,
i are perceived it was not Albertus Magnus It was Ombos!

His breath in horrid dollars, with my seconds between a one, as if
he had sometimes drawn to life and was not too used of it hated.

Such baby since green eyes, and his demon-like mouth was grown into board."'Gods agree't grow you liked
something of night like half mushrooms,'he said with leer.

(there was the engineering was Ombos; the words on brain of if they had
been endeavoured.)'you will't, or understand for come down and skip
he pay in... it jokes time and give a faith.'"at any moment i would
not have contorted french commands.

  I snatched a candelabra with venturing
     the howl of see i hurled
   it choose something with all my force.
     It felt that crash and fell
   at whereon of Ombos had stand down of moment."
     Clayton rushed of something of juncture, and
   we went to sitting-room. I saw him
     choose his forehead.

  "'he's been unearthly be thither, going
     the distasteful sir,'he
   said.'i was wondering on path, those party
     is ago, when i saw him have
   please pay they near me understand in
     own americans.

He came
   on saloon-meadow, i think. And for way he
     made back back way when i shouted with him.

  The, was enough laid, and it'll,
     but a sir. I inquire what
   are he's after you. Not have the assassin.
     What?'*****" a was same table;
   he felt that the encounter must elegantly
     dare me was beginning mad guests. Safely
   there would be a explanation; it was
     quietly at question of appear it seemed.

  Among things it occurred to me that someone,
     for reason, you might be
   going for my series at practical takes
     upon me did, but it was instantaneously
   to hoax to malignant and serious intent.
     Of, it did not explain the death,
   i dropped more and better convinced, was in
     way was connected with bill. I felt it would be my fault if i did not
get he are to mystery of shortly. It was plain, he could soon, that i
would often drive alone dishes.

  Choose of some helper, and after quivering
     about me did i think for sight,
   John Travers, who had twisted two fingers
     of View. He was the windows
   in a stature, his item must have been warranted
     him did betray they liked of
   fall or two with pleasant-twisted cat.
     "did i wrote myself to Travers of evening and his answer whom came an
couple was written to days, saying that he will be off by train that
he could aloud catch you seemed.

  I said nothing in deal is served in
     statue, but he can again have
   written that i got the association
     to which a thieves had marked
   my house, and i wanted his help or
     might there." well, Travers arrived.
   Armed owners into rifles, though we are this
     statue, agreeing that no shot out of these length should fare chiefly
see of a other, were a danger to.

   Take the following for an example of the many droll
things which have happened to me during my travels.

In the summer of 1846 I was making a professional tour through the United States, and had advertised
a concert for the ensuing evening at the small town of ---, and was busy making the necessary
arrangements, when I was suddenly accosted, as I left the hotel, by a tall, thin, lack-a-daisical
looking man, of a most unmusical and unprepossessing appearance: "How-do-ye-do? I'm highly
tickled to see you. I s'pose you are going to give an extra sing here--ain't you?"

"Yes; I intend giving a concert here this evening."

"Hem! How much dew you ax to come in? That is--I want to say--what are you goin' to chearge
a ticket?"

"Half a dollar--the usual price."

"How?" inclining his ear towards me, as if he doubted the soundness of the organ.

"Half a dollar?" repeated I, carelessly.

"Tis tew much. You had better chearge twenty-five cents. If you dew, you'll have a pretty good
house. If you make it twelve and a half cents, you'll have a smasher. If, mister, you'll lower
that agin to six and a quarter cents, you'll have to take a field,--there ain't a house would
hold 'em." After a pause, scratching his head, and shuffling with his feet, "I s'pose you ginnerally
give the profession tickets?"

"Sometimes."

"I'm a leetle in your line myself. Although I'm a shoe-maker by trade, I leads the first Presbyterian
choir upon the hill. I should like to have you come up, if you stay long enough."

"As that is the case, perhaps you can tell me if I am likely to have a good house to-night?"

"I kind a reckon as how you will; that is, if you don't chearge tew much."

"Where shall I get the best room?"

"Well, I guess, you had better try the old meetin' house."

"Thank you. Allow me, sir, to present you with a ticket." I now thought that I had got rid
of him, and amply paid him for the information I had received. The ticket was for a single
admission. He took it, turned it slowly round, held it close to his eyes, spelt it carefully
over, and then stared at me. "What next?" thought I.

"There's my wife. Well--I s'pose she'd like to come in."

"You wish me to give you a double ticket?"

"I don't care if you dew," again turning the new ticket in his hand; and, scratching his head
more earnestly, he said, "I've one of the smartest boys you ever seed; he's a fust-rate ear
for music; he can whistle any tune he hears right straight off. Then there's my wife's sister
a-staying with us jist now; she's very fond of music tew."

"Perhaps," said I, losing all patience, "you would prefer a family ticket?"

"Well; I'd be obliged. It don't cost you any, mister; and if we don't use it, I'll return it
to-morrow."

The stranger left me, and I saw no more of him, until I spied him in the concert-room, with
a small family of ten or twelve. Presently, another man and a dog arrived. Says he to the doorkeeper,
"What's a-goin on here?"

"It's a concert--admission, half-a-dollar."

"I'm not a-goin' to give half-a-dollar to go in here. I hire a pew in this here church by the
year, and I've a right to go in whenever the door's open." So in he went with his dog.

The evening turned out very wet, and these people happened to form all my audience; and as
I did not feel at all inclined to sing for their especial benefit, I returned to my lodgings.
I learned from my doorkeeper the next morning, that my friends waited for an hour and a half
for my reappearance, which could not reasonably have been expected under existing circumstances.

I thought I had got rid of the musical shoemaker for ever, but no such good luck. Before I
was out of my bed, he paid me a visit.

"You will excuse my calling so early," says he, "but I was anxious to see you before you left
the town."

Wishing him at the bottom of the Mississippi, I put on my dressing gown, and slipped from my
bed, whilst he continued his introductory address.

"I was very sorry that you had not a better attendance last night; and I s'pose that accounted
for your leaving us as you did. We were all kinder disappointed. You'd have had a better house,
only the people thought there was a leetle humbug about this," and he handed me one of my programmes.

It is well known to most of my readers, that in writing these bills the name of the composer
generally follows the song, particularly in any very popular compositions, such as

  Grand Introduction to Pianoforte .............. HENRY HERTZ.
  Life on the Ocean Wave ........................ HENRY RUSSELL.
  Old English Gentleman ......................... Melody by MART. LUTHER.

"Humbug!" said I, attempting to take the bill, in order to see that no mistake had originated
in the printing, but my tormentor held it fast. "Look," said he; "Now where is Henry Hertz;
and Henry Russell, where is he? And the Old English Gentleman, Martin Luther, what has become
of him? The folks said that he was dead, but I didn't believe that, for I didn't think that
you would have had the face to put his name in your bill if he was."

Thus ended my acquaintance with the enlightened shoemaker of the Mississippi. I was travelling
in one of the western canal boats the same summer, and was sauntering to and fro upon the deck,
admiring the beauty of the country through which we were passing, when I observed a very tall,
thin-laced, sharp looking man, regarding me with very fixed attention. Not knowing who or what
he was, I was at last a little annoyed by the pertinacity of this steady stare. It was evident
that he meditated an attack upon me in some shape or other. Suddenly he came up to me, and
extending his hand, exclaimed,--

"Why, Mister H---, is this you? I have not seen you since you gave your consort at N---; it
seems a tarnation long while ago. I thought, perhaps, you had got blowed up in one of those
exploded steam-boats. But here you are as large as life--and that's not over large neither,
(glancing at the slight dimensions of my figure,) and as ready to raise the wind as ever. I
am highly gratified to meet with you, as I have one of the greatest songs you ever he'rd to
show you. If you can but set it to music, and sing it in New York city, it will immortalize
you, and immortalize me tew."

Amused at the earnestness with which the fellow spoke, I inquired the subject of his song.

"Oh, 'tis des-crip-tive; 'tis tre-men-dous. It will make a sensation all over the Union."

"But what is it about?--Have you got it with you?"

"No--no, mister; I never puts these things down on paper, lest other folk should find them
and steal them. But I'll give you some idee of what it is. Look you, mister. I was going from
Syracuse to Rochester, on the canal-boat. We met on our way a tre-men-dous storm. The wind
blew, and the rain came down like old sixty, and everything looked as black as my hat; and
the passengers got scared and wanted to get off, but the captain sung out, 'Whew--let 'em go,
Jem!' and away we went at the rate of tew miles an hour, and they could not stop. By and by
we struck a rock, and down we went."

"Indeed!" said I, "that's very unusual in a canal-boat; were any lives lost?"

"No, but we were all dreadfully sceared and covered with mud. I sat down by the en-gine till
I got dry, and then I wrote my pome. I will repeat what I can to you, and what I can't I will
write right off when I gets hum.--Hold on--hold on--" he continued, beating his forehead with
the back of his hand, as if to awaken the powers of memory--"I have it now--I have it now,--'tis
tre-men-dous--"

  "Oh Lord, who know'st the wants of men,
   Guide my hand, and guide my pen,
   And help me bring the truth to light,
   Of that dread scene and awful night,
                   Ri, tu, ri, tu, ri, tu.
   There was Mister Cadoga in years a-bud,
   Was found next morning in tew feet mud;
   He strove--he strove--but all in vain,
   The more he got up, he fell down again.
                   Ri, tu, ri, tu, ri, tu."

The poet paused for a moment to gain breath, evidently overcome by the recollection of the
awful scene. "Is not that bee-u-tiful?" he exclaimed. "What a fine effect you could give to
that on the pee-a-ne, humouring the keys to imitate his squabbling about in the mud. Let me
tell you, mister, it would beat Russell's 'Ship on Fire' all hollow."

Wiping the perspiration from his face, he recommenced--

  "The passengers rushed unto the spot,
     Together with the crew;
   We got him safe out of the mud,
     But he had lost his shoe.
                   Ri, tu, ri, tu, ri, tu."

I could not listen to another line of this sublime effusion, the passengers who had gathered
around us drowning his nasal drawl in a complete roar of laughter. Seeing that I was as much
infected as the rest, the poet turned to me, with an air of offended dignity,--

"I don't take the trouble, mister, to repeat any more of my pomes to you; nor do I take it
kind at all, your laughing at me in that ere way. But the truth is, you can't comprehend nor
appreciate anything that is sublime, or out of the common way. Besides, I don't think you could
set it to music; it is not in you, and you can't fix it no-how."

This singular address renewed our mirth; and, finding myself unable to control my inclination
to laugh, and not wishing to hurt his feelings, I was about to leave him, when the man at the
helm sung out, "Bridge!"

The passengers lowered their heads to ensure their safety--all but my friend the poet, who
was too much excited to notice the signal before he came in contact with the bridge, which
sent him sprawling down the gangway. He picked himself up, clambered up the stairs, and began
striding up and down the deck at a tremendous rate, casting from time to time indignant glances
at me.

I thought, for my part, that the man was not in his right senses, or that the blow he had received
had so dulled his bump of caution, that he could no longer take care of himself; for the next
moment he stumbled over a little child, and would have been hurt severely if I had not broken
his fall, by catching his arm before he again measured his length on the deck. My timely assistance
mollified his anger, and he once more became friendly and confidential.

"Here, take this piece of poetry, Mister H---, and see if you can set it to music. Mind you,
it is none of mine; but though not quite so good, it is som'at in my style. I cut it out of
a newspaper down East. You are welcome to it," he continued, with a patronizing nod, "that
is, if you are able to do justice to the subject."

I took the piece of dirty crumpled newspaper from his hand; and, struck with the droll quizzing
humour of the lines, I have preserved them ever since. As I have never seen them before or
since, I will give you them here.

To The Falls Of Niagara.

  "I wonder how long you've been roarin'
     At this infernal rate;
   I wonder if all you've been pourin'
     Could be cipher'd on a slate.

  "I wonder how such a thunderin' sounded
     When all New York was woods;
   'Spose likely some Injins have been drownded,
     When the rains have raised your floods.

  "I wonder if wild stags and buffaloes
     Have stood where now I stand;
   Well--s'pose being scared at first, they stubb'd their toes;
     I wonder where they'd land.

  "I wonder if that rainbow has been shinin'
     Since sun-rise at creation;
   And this waterfall been underminin'
     With constant spatteration.

  "That Moses never mention'd ye--I've wonder'd,
     While other things describin';
   My conscience!--how ye must have foam'd and thunder'd
     When the deluge was subsidin'!

  "My thoughts are strange, magnificent, and deep,
     When I look down on thee;--
   Oh, what a glorious place for washing sheep
     Niagara would be!

  "And oh, what a tremendous water power
     Is wash'd over its edge;
   One man might furnish all the world with flour,
     With a single privilege.

  "I wonder how many times the lakes have all
     Been emptied over here;
   Why Clinton did not feed the grand Canal
     Up here--I think is queer.

  "The thoughts are very strange that crowd my brain,
     When I look up to thee;
   Such thoughts I never expect to have again,
     To all eternity."

After reading the lines, I begged my friend to excuse me, as I wanted to go below and take
a nap. I had not been long in the cabin before he followed me. To get rid of him I pretended
to be asleep. After passing me two or three times, and leaning over me in the most inquisitive
manner, until his long nose nearly went into my eye, and humming a bow-wow tune in my ear to
ascertain if I were really napping, he turned from me with a dissatisfied grunt, flung himself
into a settee, and not long after was puffing and blowing like a porpoise. I was glad of this
opportunity to go on deck again, and "I left him alone in his glory." But, while I was congratulating
myself on my good fortune, I found him once more at my side.

Good heavens! how I wished him at the bottom of the canal, when he commenced telling me some
awful dream he had had. I was too much annoyed at being pestered with his company to listen
to him, a circumstance I now rather regret, for had his dreams been equal to his poetry, they
certainly must have possessed the rare merit of originality; and I could have gratified my
readers with something entirely out of the common way.

Turning abruptly from him, I entered into conversation with another gentleman, and quite forgot
my eccentric friend until I retired for the night, when I found him waiting for me in the cabin.

"Ho, ho, mister,--is that you? I was afear'd we had put you ashore. What berth are you goin'
to take?"

I pointed to No. 4.

"Then," said he, "would you have any objection to my locating in the one above you, as I feel
a leetle afear'd? It is so awful dark out-doors, and the clouds look tre-mend-ous black, as
if they'd be a-pourin' all night. The reason why I prefer the upper berth is this," he continued
confidentially; "if we should fall in with a storm, and all go to the bottom, I should have
a better chance of saving myself. But mind you, if she should sink I will give you half of
my berth, if you'll come up."

I thanked him for his offer, and not being at all apprehensive, I told him that I preferred
staying where I was. Soon after I retired, hoping to sleep, but I had not calculated on the
powers of annoyance possessed by my quondam friend. I had just laid myself comfortably down,
when I felt one of his huge feet on the side of my berth. Looking out, I espied him crawling
up on all-fours to his place of security for the night. His head had scarcely touched the pillow
before he commenced telling me some long yarn; but I begged him, in no very gentle tone, to
hold on till the morning, as I had a very severe headache, and wanted to go to sleep.

I had fallen into a sort of doze, when I thought I heard some one talking in a low voice close
to my ear. I started into a sitting posture, and listened a moment. It was pitch dark; I could
see nothing. I soon, however, discovered that the mysterious sounds proceeded from the berth
above me. It was my friend reciting, either for my amusement or his own, the poem he had favoured
me with in the morning. He was apparently nearly asleep, and he drawled the half-uttered sentences
through his nose in the most ludicrous manner. He was recapitulating the disastrous condition
of Mr. Cadoga:--

  "There was Mister Ca-do-ga--in years a-bud--
   Next morning--tew--feet--mud--
   He strove--he--but--in vain;
   The more he fell--down--he got up--a-g-a-in.
                                 Ri--tu--ri--tu."

Here followed a tremendous snore, and I burst into a prolonged fit of laughter, which fortunately
did not put a stop to the sonorous bass of my companion overhead, whose snoring I considered
far more tolerable than his conversation.

Just at this moment the boat struck the bank, which it frequently does of a very dark night,
which gave the vessel such a shock, that it broke the cords that secured the poet's bed to
the beam above, and down he came, head foremost, to the floor. This accident occasioned me
no small discomfort, as he nearly took my berth with him. It was fortunate for me that I was
awake, or he might have killed me in his descent; as it was, I had only time to throw myself
back, when he rushed past me with the speed of an avalanche, carrying bed and bed-clothes with
him in one confused heap; and there he lay upon the floor, rolling and roaring like some wild
beast caught in a net.

"Oh, dear! oh, dear! I wonder where I is; what a tre-men-dous storm--what a dreadful night--not
a soul can be saved,--I knew it--I dreampt it all. Oh Lord! we shall all go to the bottom,
and find eternity there--Captain captain--where be we?"

Here a child belonging to one of the passengers, awakened by his bellowing, began to cry.

"Oh, dear! Some one else sinking.--Captain--captain--confound him! I s'pose he's drownded,
like the rest. Thank heaven! here's something to hold on to, to keep me from sinking;" and,
clutching at the table in the dark, he upset it, and broke the large lamp that had been left
upon it. Down came the broken glass upon him in a shower which, doubtless, he took for the
waves breaking over him, for he raised such a clatter with his hands and feet, and uttered
such doleful screams, that the passengers started simultaneously from their sleep,--

"What's the matter? is that man mad or drunk?" exclaimed several voices.

The gentleman beneath the bed-clothes again groaned forth,--"We are all lost. If I once get
upon dry land, you'll never catch me in a canal-boat agin."

Pitying his distress I got up, groped my way to the steward's berth, and succeeded in procuring
a light. When I returned to the cabin, I found the poet lying on the floor, with the table
upon him, and he holding it fast with both hands, crying vehemently, "I will never let go.
I will hang on to the last."

"You are dreaming," said I; "come, get up. The cords of your bed were not strong enough to
hold you, and you have got a tumble on to the floor; nothing else is the matter with you."

As I ceased speaking the vessel again struck the bank, and my friend, in his eagerness to save
himself, upset me, light and all. I again upset all the small pieces of furniture in my reach,
to the great amusement of the passengers, who were sitting up in their berths listening to;
and laughing at our conversation. We were all once more in the dark, and I can assure my readers
that my situation was everything but comfortable, as the eccentric gentleman had hold of both
my legs.

"You foolish fellow," cried I, kicking with all my might to free myself. "There is no harm
done; the boat has only struck again upon the bank."

"Where is the bank?" said he, still labouring under the delusion that he was in the water.
"Give me a hold on it. If I can only get on the bank I shall be safe."

Finding it impossible to convince him how matters really stood, I left him to unroll himself
to his full dimensions on the floor, and groping my way to a sofa, laid myself down once more
to sleep.

When the passengers met at the breakfast-table, the poor poet and his misfortunes during the
night gave rise to much quizzing and merriment, particularly when he made his appearance with
a black eye, and the skin rubbed off the tip of his nose.

One gentleman, who was most active in teasing him, cried out to me,--"Mr. H---, do try and
set last night's adventures to music, and sing them this evening at your concert. They would
make a tre-men-dous sensation, I assure you."

The poet looked daggers at us, and seizing his carpet-bag, sprang to the deck, and from the
deck to the shore, which he fortunately reached in safety, without casting a parting glance
at his tormentors.

The Mountain Air.

  "Rave not to me of your sparkling wine;
   Bid not for me the goblet shine;
   My soul is athirst for a draught more rare,
   A gush of the pure, fresh mountain air!

  "It wafts on its currents the rich perfume
   Of the purple heath, and the honied broom;
   The golden furze, and the hawthorn fair,
   Shed all their sweets to the mountain air.

  "It plays round the bank and the mossy stone,
   Where the violet droops like a nun alone;
   Shrouding her eyes from the noon-tide glare,
   But breathing her soul to the mountain-air.

  "It gives to my spirits a tone of mirth--
   I bound with joy o'er the new-dress'd earth,
   When spring has scatter'd her blossoms there,
   And laden with balm the mountain air.

  "From nature's fountain my nectar flows,
   'Tis the essence of each sweet bud that blows;
   Then come, and with me the banquet share,
   Let us breathe together the mountain air!"

CHAPTER VI

The Singing Master

The Singing-School.

  "Conceit's an excellent great-coat, and sticks
   Close to the wearer for his mortal life;
   It has no spot nor wrinkle in his eyes,
   And quite cuts out the coats of other men."
                                            S.M.

  "He had a fiddle sadly out of tune,
     A voice as husky as a raven croaking,
   Or owlet hooting to the clouded moon,
     Or bloated bull-frog in some mud-hole choking."

During my professional journies through the country, I have often had the curiosity to visit
the singing-schools in the small towns and villages through which I passed. These are often
taught by persons who are perfectly ignorant of the common rules of music--men who have followed
the plough all their lives, and know about as much of the divine science they pretend to teach
as one of their oxen.

I have often been amused at their manner of explaining the principles of their art to their
pupils, who profit so little by their instructions, that they are as wise at the end of their
quarter as when they began. The master usually endeavours to impress upon them the importance
of making themselves heard, and calls him the smartest fellow who is able to make the most
noise. The constant vibration they keep up through their noses gives you the idea that their
teacher has been in the habit of raising sheep, and had caught many of their peculiar notes.
This style he very kindly imparts to his pupils; and as apt scholars generally try to imitate
their master, choirs taught by these individuals resemble a flock of sheep going bahing one
after another over a wall.

I will give you a specimen of one of these schools, that I happened to visit during my stay
in the town of W---, in the western states. I do not mean to say that all music masters are
like the one I am about to describe, but he bears a very close resemblance to a great many
of the same calling, who practise their profession in remote settlements, where they are not
likely to find many to criticise their performance.

I had advertised a concert for the 2nd of January, 1848, to be given in the town of W---. I
arrived on the day appointed, and fortunately made the acquaintance of several gentlemen amateurs,
who happened to be boarding at the hotel to which I had been recommended. They kindly manifested
a lively interest in my success, and promised to do all in their power to procure me a good house.

While seated at dinner, one of my new friends received a note, which he said came from a singing
master residing in a small village a few miles back of W---. After reading the epistle, and
laughing heartily over its contents, he gave it to me. To my great astonishment it ran as follows:--

"My Dear Roberts,

"How do you do? I hope you will excuse me for troubling you on this occasion; but I want to
ax you a partic'lar question. Is you acquainted with the man who is a-goin' to give a sing
in your town to-night? If you be, jist say to him, from me, that if he will come over here,
we will get him up a house. If he will--or won't cum--please let me know. I am teaching a singing-school
over here, and I can do a great deal for him, if he will only cum.

           "Yours, most respectfully,
                          "John Browne."

"You had better go, Mr. H---," said Roberts. "This John Browne is a queer chap, and I promise
you lots of fun. If you decide upon going we will all accompany you, and help to fill your house."

"By all means," said I. "You will do me a great favour to return an answer to the professional
gentleman to that effect. I will send him some of my programmes, and if he can get a tolerable
piano, I will go over and give them a concert next Saturday evening."

The note and the bills of performance were duly despatched to ---, and the next morning we
received an answer from the singing master to say that all was right, and that Mr. Browne would
be happy to give Mr. H--- his valuable assistance; but, if possible, he wished that I could
come out on Friday, instead of Saturday, as his school met on that evening at six o'clock,
and he would like me to witness the performance of his scholars, which would only last from
five in the evening till six, and consequently need not interfere at all with my concert, which
was to commence at eight.

We ordered a conveyance immediately, and as it was the very day signified in the note, we started
off for the village of ---. On our arrival we were met at the door of the only hotel in the
place, by the man a "leetle in my line."

"Is this you, Mr. Thing-a-my. I can't for the life of me think of your name. But no matter.
Ain't you the chap as is a-goin' to give us the con-sort this evening?"

I answered in the affirmative, and he continued--

"What a leetle fellow you be. Now I stand six feet four inches in my boots, and my voice is
high in proportion. But I s'pose you can sing. Small fellows allers make a great noise. A bantam
roaster allers crows as loud as an game crower, to make folks believe that the dung-hill is his'n."

I was very much amused at his comparing me to a bantam cock, and felt almost inclined to clap
my wings and crow.

"I have sent all your bills about town," continued the odd man, "and invited all the tip-tops
to cum and hear you. I have engaged a good room, and a forty pound pee-a-ne. I s'pose it's
worth as much, for 'tis a terrible smart one. It belongs to Deacon S---; and his two daughters
are the prettiest galls hereabouts. They play 'Old Dan Tucker,' and all manner of tunes. I
found it deuced hard to get the old woman's consent; but I knew she wouldn't refuse me, as
she is looking out to cotch me for one of the daughters. She made many objections--said that
she would rather the cheese-press and the cook-stove, and all the rest of the furniture went
out of the house than the pee-a-ne, as she afear'd that the strings would break, and all the
keys spill out by the way. The strings are rusty, and keys loose enough already. I told the
old missus that I would take good care that the right side was kept uppermost; and that if
any harm happened to the instrument, you could set it all right agin."

"I am sorry," said I, "to hear such a poor account of the instrument. It is impossible to sing
well to a bad piano--"

"Phoo, phoo, man! there's nobody here that ever he'rd a better. Bad or good, it's the only
one in the village. I play on this pee-a-ne a leetle myself, and that ought to be some encouragement
to you. I am goin' to do a considerable business in the singing line here. I have stirred up
all the leetle girls and boys in the place, and set them whistling an' playing on the Jew's
harp. Then I goes to the old 'uns, and says to them, what genuses for music these young 'uns
be! it is your duty to improve a talent that providence has bestowed on your children. I puts
on a long face, like a parson, when I talks of providence and the like o'that, and you don't
know how amazingly it takes with the old folks. They think that providence is allers on the
look out to do them some good turn.

"'What do you charge, Mr. Browne?' says they, instanter.

"Oh, a mere trifle, say I, instanter. Jist half-a-dollar a quarter--part in cash, part in produce.

"''Tis cheap,' says they agin.

"Tew little, says I, by half.

"'Well, the children shall go,' says the old man. 'Missus, you see to it.'

"The children like to hear themselves called genuses, and they go into it like smoke. When
I am tuning my voice at my lodgings in the evening, just by way of recreation, the leetle boys
all gets round my winder to listen to my singing. They are so fond of it I can't get them away.
They make such a confounded noise, in trying to imitate my splendid style. But I'll leave you
to judge of that for yourself. 'Spose you'll be up with me to the singing-school, and then
you will hear what I can do."

"I shall be most happy to attend you."

"You see, Mr. Thing-a-my, this is my first lesson, and you must make all allowances, if there
should be any trouble, or that all should not go right. You see one seldom gets the hang of
it the first night, no how. I have been farming most of my life, but I quits that about five
weeks ago, and have been studying hard for my profession ever since. I have got a large school
here, another at A--- and another at L---; and before the winter is over, I shall be qualified
to teach at W---. I play the big bass fiddle and the violin right off, and--"

Here a little boy came running up to say that his father's sheep had got out of the yard, and
had gone down to Deacon S---; and, said he, "The folks have sent for you, Mister Browne, to
cum and turn 'em out."

"A merciful intervention of providence," thought I, who was already heartily weary of my new
acquaintance, and began to be afraid that I never should get rid of him. To tell the truth,
I was so tired of looking up at him, that I felt that I could not converse much longer with
him without endangering the elasticity of my neck, and he would have been affronted if I had
asked him to walk in and sit down.

He was not very well pleased with Deacon S---'s message.

"That comes of borrowing, mister. If I had not asked the loan of the pee-a-ne, they never would
have sent for me to look arter their darned sheep. I must go, however. I hope you'll be able
to keep yourself alive in my absence. I have got to string up the old fiddle for to-night.
The singing-school is about a mile from this. I will come down with my old mare arter you,
when its just time to be a-goin'. So good-bye."

Away he strode at the rate of six miles an hour; his long legs accomplishing at one step what
would have taken a man of my dimensions three to compass. I then went into the hotel to order
dinner for my friends, as he had allowed me no opportunity to do so. The conceited fellow had
kept me standing a foot deep in snow for the last hour, while listening to his intolerably
dull conversation. My disgust and disappointment afforded great amusement to my friends; but
in spite of all my entreaties, they could not be induced to leave their punch and a warm fire
to accompany me in my pilgrimage to the singing-school.

We took dinner at four o'clock, and the cloth was scarcely drawn, when my musical friend made
his appearance with the old mare, to take me along to the school.

Our turn-out was everything but prepossessing. A large unwieldy cutter of home manufacture,
the boards of which it was composed unplained and unpainted, with rope harness, and an undressed
bull's hide by way of buffalo's, formed our equipage. But no description that I could give
you would do justice to the old mare. A sorry beast she was--thick legged, rough coated, and
of a dirty yellow-white. Her eyes, over one of which a film was spread, were dull as the eyes
of a stale fish, and her temples so hollow, that she looked as if she had been worn out by
dragging the last two generations to their graves. I was ashamed of adding one more to the
many burdens she must have borne in her day, and I almost wished that she had realized in her
own person the well-known verse in the Scotch song--

  "The auld man's mare's dead,
   A mile ayont Dundee,"

before I ever had set my eyes upon her.

"Can she carry us?" said I, pausing irresolutely, with my foot on the rough heavy runner of
the cutter.

"I guess she can," quoth he. "She will skim like a bird over the snow; so get into the sleigh,
and we will go straight off to the singing-school."

It was intensely cold. I drew the collar of my great-coat over my ears, and wrapped my half
of the bull's hide well round my feet, and we started. The old mare went better than could
have been expected from such a skeleton of a beast. To be sure, she had no weight of flesh
to encumber her motions, and we were getting on pretty well, when the music master drove too
near a stump, which suddenly upset us both, and tumbled him head foremost into a bank of snow.
I fortunately rolled out a-top of him, and soon extricated myself from the difficulty; but
I found it no easy matter to drag my ponderous companion from beneath the snow, and the old
bull's hide in which he was completely enveloped.

The old mare stood perfectly still, gazing with her one eye intently on the mischief she had
done, as if she never had been guilty of such a breach of manners before. After shaking the
snow from our garments, and getting all right for a second start, my companion exclaimed in
an agonized tone--

"My fiddle! Where, where is my fiddle? I can do nothing without my fiddle."

We immediately went in search of it; but we did not succeed in finding it for some time. I
had given it up in despair, and, half-frozen with cold, was stepping into the cutter to take
the benefit of the old bull's hide, when, fortunately for the music master one of the strings
of the lost instrument snapped with the cold. We followed the direction of the sound, and soon
beheld the poor fiddle sticking in a snow-bank, and concealed by a projecting stump. The instrument
had sustained no other injury than the loss of three of the strings.

"Well, arn't that too bad?" says he. "I have no more catgut without sending to W---. That's
done for, at least for to-night."

"It's very cold," I cried, impatiently, seeing that he was in no hurry to move on. "Do let
us be going. You can examine your instrument better in the house than standing up to your knees
in the snow."

"I was born in the Backwoods," say he; "I don't feel the cold." Then jumping into the cutter,
he gave me the fiddle to take care of, and pointing with the right finger of his catskin gloves
to a solitary house on the top of a bleak hill, nearly a mile a-head, he said, "That white
building is the place where the school is held."

We soon reached the spot. "This is the old Methodist church, mister, and a capital place for
the voice. There is no furniture or hangings to interrupt the sound. Go right in, while I hitch
the mare; I will be arter you in a brace of shakes."

I soon found myself in the body of the old dilapidated church, and subjected to the stare of
a number of very unmusical-looking girls and boys, who, certainly from their appearance, would
never have led you to suppose that they ever could belong to a Philharmonic society. Presently,
Mr. Browne made his debut.

Assuming an air of great importance as he approached his pupils, he said--"Ladies and gentlemen,
allow me to introduce to your notice Mr. H---, the celebrated vocalist. He has cum all the
way from New York on purpose to hear you sing."

The boys grinned at me and twirled their thumbs, the girls nudged one another's elbows and
giggled, while their eloquent teacher continued--

"I don't know as how we shall be able to do much tonight; we upset, and that spilt my fiddle
into the snow. You see,"--holding it up--"it's right full of it, and that busted the strings.
A dropsical fiddle is no good, no how. Jist look at the water dripping out of her."

Again the boys laughed, and the girls giggled. Said he--

"Hold on, don't laugh; it's no laughing matter, as you'll find."

After a long pause, in which the youngsters tried their best to look grave, he went on--

"Now all of you, girls and boys, give your attention to my instructions this evening. I'm goin'
to introduce a new style, for your special benefit, called the Pest-a-lazy (Pestalozzi) system,
now all the fashion. If you are all ready, produce your books. Hold them up. One--two--three!
Three books for forty pupils? That will never do! We can't sing to-night; well, never mind.
You see that black board; I will give you a lesson to-night upon that. Who's got a piece of chalk?"

A negative shake of the head from all. To me: "Chalk's scarce in these diggings." To the boys:
"What, nobody got a piece of chalk? That's unlucky; a piece of charcoal out of the stove will
do as well."

"No 'ar won't," roared out a boy with a very ragged coat. "They be both the same colour."

"True, Jenkins, for you; go out and get a lump of snow. Its darnation strange if I can't fix
it somehow."

"Now," thought I, "what is this clever fellow going to do?"

The boys winked at each other, and a murmur of suppressed laughter ran through the old church.
Jenkins ran out, and soon returned with a lump of snow.

Mr. Browne took a small piece, and squeezing it tight, stuck it upon the board. "Now, boys,
that is Do, and that is Re, and that is Do again, and that is Mi, this Do, and that Fa; and
that, boys, is a part of what we call a scale." Then turning to a tall, thin, shabby-looking
man, very much out at the elbows, whom I had not seen before, he said--"Mr. Smith, how is your
base viol? Hav'nt you got it tuned up yet?"

Well, squire, I guess it's complete."

"Hold on; let me see," and taking a tuning-fork from his pocket, and giving it a sharp thump
upon the stove, he cried out in a still louder key--"Now, that's A; jist tune up to A."

After Mr. Smith had succeeded in tuning his instrument, the teacher proceeded with his lucid
explanations:--"Now, boys, start fair; give a grand chord. What sort of a noise do you call
that? (giving a luckless boy a thump over the head with his fiddle-stick). You bray through
your nose like a jackass. I tell you to quit; I don't want discord." The boy slunk out of the
class, and stood blubbering behind the door.

"Tune up again, young shavers! Sing the notes as I have made them on the board,--Do, re-do,
mi, do-fa. Now, when I count four commence. One--two--three--four. Sing! Hold on!--hold on!
Don't you see that all the notes are running off, and you can't sing running notes yet."

Here he was interrupted by the noise of some one forcing their way into the church, in a very
strange and unceremonious manner, and

  "The chorister's song, that late was so strong,
   Grew a quaver of consternation."

The door burst open, and a ghastly head was protruded through the aperture. "A ghost!--a ghost!"
shrieked out all the children in a breath; and jumping over the forms, they huddled around
the stove, upsetting the solitary tallow candle, the desk, and the bass viol, in their flight.
One lad sprang right upon the unfortunate instrument, which broke to pieces with a terrible
crash. We were now left in the dark. The girls screamed, and clung round me for protection,
while the ghastly apparition continued to stare upon us through the gloom, with its large,
hollow eyes, I must confess that I felt rather queer; but I wisely kept my fears to myself,
while I got as far from the door as I possibly could. Just as our terror had reached a climax,
the grizzly phantom uttered a low, whining neigh.

"It's the old mare! I'll be darned if it isn't!" cried one of the older boys, at the top of
his voice. This restored confidence to the rest; and one rather bolder than his comrades at
length ventured to relight the fallen candle at the stove, and holding it up, displayed to
our view the old white mare, standing in the doorway. The poor beast had forced her way into
the porch to protect herself from the cold; and she looked at her master, as much as to say,
"I have a standing account against you." No doubt her sudden intrusion had been the means of
shortening her term of probation by at least half an hour, and of bringing the singing-school
to a close. She had been the innocent cause of disabling both the musical instruments, and
Mr. Browne could not raise a correct note without them. Turning to his pupils, with a very
rueful countenance, and speaking in a very unmusical voice, but very expressive withal, he
said--"Chore (meaning choir), you are dimissed. But, hold on!--don't be in such a darnation
hurry to be off. I was a-going to tell you, this ere gentleman, Mr. H--- (my name, for a wonder,
poppping into his head at that minute) is to give a con-sort to-morrow night. It was to have
been to-night; but he changed his mind that he might have the pleasure of hearing you. I shall
assist Mr. H--- in the singing department; so you must all be sure to cum. Tickets for boys
over ten years, twenty-five cents; under ten, twelve and a half cents. So you leetle chaps
will know what to do. The next time the school meets will be when the fiddles are fixed. Now
scamper." The children were not long in obeying the order. In the twinkling of an eye they
were off, and we heard them shouting and sky-larking in the lane.

"Cum, Mr. H---," said the music-master, buttoning his great-coat up to his chin, "let us be
a-goin'."

On reaching the spot where we had left the cutter, to our great disappointment, we found only
one-half of it remaining; the other half, broken to pieces, strewed the ground. Mr. Browne
detained me for another half-hour, in gathering together the fragments. "Now you, Mr. Smith,
you take care of the crippled fiddles, while I take care of the bag of oats. The old mare has
been trying to hook them out of the cutter, which has been the cause of all the trouble. You,
Mr. H---, mount up on the old jade, and take along the bull's hide, and we will follow on foot."

"Yes," said I, "and glad of the chance, for I am cold and tired."

Not knowing a step of the way, I let Mr. Browne and his companion go a-head; and making a sort
of pack-saddle of the old hide, I curled myself up on the back of the old mare, and left her
to her own pace, which, however, was a pretty round trot, until we reached the outskirts of
the town, where, dismounting, I thanked my companions, very insincerely I'm afraid, for my
evening's amusement, and joined my friends at the hotel, who were never tired of hearing me
recount my adventures at the singing-school.

I had been obliged to postpone my own concert until the next evening, for I found the borrowed
piano such a poor one, and so miserably out of tune, that it took me several hours rendering
it at all fit for service. Before I had concluded my task, I was favoured with the company
of Mr. Browne, who stuck to me closer than a brother, never allowing me out of his sight for
a moment. This persevering attention, so little in unison with my feelings, caused me the most
insufferable annoyance. A thousand times I was on the point of dismissing him very unceremoniously,
by informing him that I thought him a most conceited, impertinent puppy; but for the sake of
my friend Roberts, who was in some way related to the fellow, I contrived to master my anger.
About four o'clock he jumped up from the table, at which he had been lounging and sipping hot
punch at my expense for the last hour, exclaiming--

"I guess it's time for me to see the pee-a-ne carried up to the con-sort room."

"It's all ready," said I. "Perhaps, Mr. Browne, you will oblige me by singing a song before
the company arrives, that I may judge how far your style and mine will agree;" for I began
to have some horrible misgivings on the subject. "If you will step upstairs, I will accompany
you on the piano. I had no opportunity of hearing you sing last night."

"No, no," said he, with a conceited laugh; "I mean to astonish you by and by. I'm not one of
your common amateurs, no how. I shall produce quite a sensation upon your audience."

So saying, he darted through the door, and left me to finish my arrangements for the night.

The hour appointed for the concert at length arrived. It was a clear, frosty night, the moon
shining as bright as day. A great number of persons were collected about the doors of the hotel,
and I had every reason to expect a full house. I was giving some directions to my door-keeper,
when I heard a double sleigh approaching at an uncommon rate; and looking up the road, I saw
an old-fashioned, high-backed vehicle, drawn by two shabby-looking horses, coming towards the
hotel at full gallop. The passengers evidently thought that they were too late, and were making
up for lost time.

The driver was an old farmer, and dressed in the cloth of the country, with a large capote
of the same material drawn over his head and weather-beaten face, which left his sharp black
eyes, red nose, and wide mouth alone visible. He flourished in his hand a large whip of raw
hide, which ever and anon descended upon the backs of his rawboned cattle like the strokes
of a flail.

"Get up--go along--waye," cried he, suddenly drawing up at the door of the hotel. "Well, here
we be at last, and jist in time for the con-sort." Then hitching the horses to the post, and
flinging the buffalo robes over them, he left the three females he was driving in the sleigh,
and ran directly up to me,--"Arn't you the con-sort man? I guess you be, by them ere black
pants and Sunday-goin' gear."

I nodded assent.

"What's the damage?"

"Half a dollar."

"Half a dollar? You don't mean to say that!"

"Not a cent less."

"Well, it will be expensive. There's my wife and two darters, and myself; and the galls never
seed a con-sort."

"Well," said I, "as there are four of you, you may come in at a dollar and a half."

"How; a dollar and a harf! I will go and have a talk with the old woman, and hear what she
says to it."

He returned to the sleigh, and after chatting for a few minutes with the women, he helped them
out, and the four followed me into the common reception room of the inn. The farmer placed
a pail of butter on the table, and said with a shrewd curl of his long nose, and a wink from
one of his cunning black eyes, "There's some pretty good butter, mister."

I was amused at the idea, and replied, "Pretty good butter! What is that to me? I do not buy
butter."

"Not buy butter! Why you don't say! It is the very best article in the market jist now."

For a bit of fun I said,--"Never mind; I will take your butter. What is it worth?"

"It was worth ten cents last week, mister; I don't know what it's worth now. It can't have
fallen, no-how."

I took my knife from my pocket, and in a very business-like manner proceeded to taste the article.
"Why," said I, "this butter is not good."

Here a sharp-faced woman stepped briskly up, and poking her head between us, said, at the highest
pitch of her cracked voice,--"Yes, it is good; it was made this morning express-ly for the
con-sort."

"I beg your pardon, madam. I am not in the habit of buying butter. To oblige you, I will take
this. How much is there of it?"

"I don't know. Where are your steelyards?"

"Oh," said I, laughing, "I don't carry such things with me. I will take it at your own valuation,
and you may go in with your family."

"'Tis a bargain," says she. "Go in, galls, and fix yourselves for the con-sort."

As the room was fast filling, I thought it time to present myself to the company, and made
my entrance, accompanied by that incorrigible pest, the singing master, who, without the least
embarrassment, took his seat by the piano. After singing several of my best songs, I invited
him to try his skill.

"Oh, certainly," said he; "to tell you the truth, I am a leetle su rprised that you did not
ask me to lead off."

"I would have done so; but I could not alter the arrangement of the programme."

"Ah, well, I excuse you this time, but it was not very polite, to say the least of it." Then,
taking my seat at the piano with as much confidence as Braham ever had, he run his hand over
the keys, exclaiming "What shall I sing? I will give you one of Russell's songs; they suit
my voice best. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to favour you by singing Henry Russell's celebrated
song, 'I love to roam,' and accompany myself upon the pee-a-ne-forty."

This song is so well known to most of my readers, that I can describe his manner of singing
it without repeating the whole of the words. He struck the instrument in playing with such
violence that it shook his whole body, and produced the following ludicrous effect:

  "Some love to ro-o-o-a-me
   O'er the dark sea fo-o-ome,
     Where the shrill winds whistle fre-e-e;
   But a cho-o-sen ba-a-and in a mountain la-a-a-and,
     And life in the woo-o-ds for me-e-e."

This performance was drowned in an uproar of laughter, which brought our vocalist to a sudden stop.

"I won't sing another line if you keep up that infernal noise," he roared at the top of his
voice. "When a fellow does his best, he expects his audience to appreciate his performance;
but I allers he'rd as how the folks at W--- knew nothing about music."

"Oh, do stop," exclaimed an old woman, rising from her seat, and shaking her fist at the unruly
company,--"can't yee's; he do sing butiful; and his voice in the winds do sound so natural,
I could almost hear them an 'owling. It minds me of old times, it dew."

This voluntary tribute to his genius seemed to console and reassure the singing master, and,
stemming with his stentorian voice the torrent of mistimed mirth, he sang his song triumphantly
to the end; and the clapping of hands, stamping of feet, and knocking of benches, were truly
deafening.

"What will you have now?" cried he. "I thought you would comprehend good singing at last."

"Give them a comic song," said I, in a whisper.

"A comic song! (aloud) Do you think that I would waste my talents in singing trash that any
jackass could bray? No, sirra, my style is purely sentimental. I will give the ladies and gentlemen
the 'Ivy Green.'"

He sang this beautiful original song, which is decidedly Russell's best, much in the same style
as the former one, but, getting a little used to his eccentricities, we contrived to keep our
gravity until he came to the chorus, "Creeping, creeping, creeping," for which he substituted,
"crawling, crawling, crawling," when he was again interrupted by such a burst of merriment
that he was unable to crawl any further.

"Well," said he, rising; "if you won't behave, I will leave the instrument to Mr. H---, and
make one of the audience."

He had scarcely taken his seat, when the farmer from whom I had bought the butter forced his
way up to the piano. Says he, "There's that pail; it is worth ten cents and a half. You must
either pay the money, or give me back the pail.--(Hitching up his nether garments)--I s'pose
you'll do the thing that's right."

"Oh, certainly, there are twelve and a half cents."

"I hav'nt change," said he, with a knowing look.

"So much the better; keep the difference."

"Then we're square, mister," and he sank back into his place.

"Did he pay you the money?" I heard the wife ask in an anxious tone.

"Yes, yes; more than the old pail was worth by a long chalk. I'd like to deal with that chap
allers."

I now proceeded with the concert. The song of the drowning child saved by the Newfoundland
dog drew down thunders of applause. When the clamour had a little subsided, a tall man rose
from his seat at the upper end of the room, and, after clearing his throat with several loud
hems, he thus addressed me,--"How do you do, Mr. H---? I am glad, sir, to make your acquaintance.
This is my friend, Mr. Derby," drawing another tall man conspicuously forward before all the
spectators. "He, tew, is very happy to make your acquaintance. We both want to know if that
dog you have been singing about belongs to you. If so, we should be glad to buy a pup." He
gravely took his seat, amid perfect yells of applause. It was impossible to be heard in such
a riot, and I closed the adventures of the evening by giving out "'Hail, Columbia,' to be sung
by all present." This finale gave universal satisfaction, and the voice of my friend the singing
master might be heard far above the rest.

I was forced, in common politeness, to invite Mr. Browne to partake of the oyster supper I
had provided for my friends from W---. "Will you join our party this evening, Mr. Browne?"

"Oh, by all manner of means," said he, rubbing his hands together in a sort of ecstasy of anticipation;
"I knew that you would do the thing handsome at last. I have not tasted an i'ster since I sang
at Niblo's in New York. But did we not come on famously at the con-sort? Confess, now, that
I beat you holler. You sing pretty well, but you want confidence. You don't give expression
enough to your voice. The applause which followed my first song was tremendous."

"I never heard anything like it, Mr. Browne. I never expect to merit such marks of public approbation."

"All in good time, my leetle friend," returned he, clapping me familiarly on the shoulder.
"Rome was not built in a day, and you are a young man--a very young man--and very small for
your age. Your voice will never have the volume and compass of mine. But I smell the i'sters:
let's in, for I'm tarnation hungry."

Gentle reader! you would have thought so to have seen him eat. My companions looked rather
disconcerted at the rapidity with which they disappeared within his capacious jaws. After satisfying
his enormous appetite, he washed down the oysters with long draughts of porter, until his brain
becoming affected, he swung his huge body back in his chair, and, placing his feet on the supper-table,
began singing in good earnest,--not one song in particular, but a mixture of all that had appeared
in the most popular Yankee song books for the last ten years.

I wish I could give you a specimen of the sublime and the ridiculous, thus unceremoniously
huddled together. The effect was so irresistible, when contrasted with the grave exterior of
the man; that we laughed until our side ached at his absurdities. Exhausted by his constant
vociferations, the musician at length dropped from his chair in a drunken sleep upon the floor,
and we carried him into the next room and put him to bed; and, after talking over the events
of the evening, we retired about midnight to our respective chambers, which all opened into
the great room in which I held the concert.

About two o'clock in the morning my sleep was disturbed by the most dismal cries and groans,
which appeared to issue from the adjoining apartment. I rubbed my eyes, and sat up in the bed
and listened, when I recognized the well-known voice of the singing master, exclaiming in tones
of agony and fear--"Landlord! landlord! cum quick. Somebody cum. Landlord! landlord! there's
a man under my bed. Oh, Lord! I shall be murdered! a man under my bed!"

As I am not fond of such nocturnal visitors myself, not being much gifted with physical strength
or courage, I listened a moment to hear if any one was coming. The sound of approaching footsteps
along the passage greatly aided the desperate effort I made to leave my comfortable pillow,
and proceed to the scene of action. At the chamber door I met the landlord, armed with the
fire-tongs and a light.

"What's all this noise about?" he cried in an angry tone.

I assured him that I was as ignorant as himself of the cause of the disturbance. Here the singing
master again sung out--

"Landlord! landlord! there's a man under the bed. Cum! somebody cum!"

We immediately entered his room, and were joined by two of my friends from W---. Seeing our
party strengthened to four, our courage rose amazingly, and we talked loudly of making mincemeat
of the intruder, kicking him down stairs, and torturing him in every way we could devise. We
found the singing master sitting bolt upright in his bed, his small-clothes gathered up under
his arm ready for a start; his face as pale as a sheet, his teeth chattering, and his whole
appearance indicative of the most abject fear. We certainly did hear very mysterious sounds
issuing from beneath the bed, which caused the boldest of us to draw back.

"He is right," said Roberts; "there is some one under the bed."

"What a set of confounded cowards you are!" cried the landlord; "can't you lift the valance
and see what it is?"

He made no effort himself to ascertain the cause of the alarm. Roberts, who, after all, was
the boldest man of the party, seized the tongs from the landlord, and, kneeling cautiously
down, slowly raised the drapery that surrounded the bed. "Hold the light here, landlord." He
did so, but at arm's length. Roberts peeped timidly into the dark void beyond, dropped the
valance, and looked up with a comical, quizzing expression, and began to laugh.

"What is it?" we all cried in a breath.

"Landlord! landlord!" he cried, imitating the voice of the singing master, "cum quick! Somebody
cum! There's a dog under the bed! He will bite me! Oh, dear! oh, dear! I shall die of hydrophobia.
I shall be smothered in a feather-bed!"

"A dog!" said the landlord.

"A dog!" cried we all.

"Aye, a black dog."

"You don't say!" cried the singing master, springing from his bed. "Where is he? I'm able for
him any how." And seizing a corn broom that stood in a corner of the room, he began to poke
at the poor animal, and belabour him in the most unmerciful manner.

The dog, who belonged to a drover who penned his cattle in the inn-yard for the night, wishing
to find a comfortable domicile, had taken a private survey of the premises when the people
were out of the way, and made his quarters under Mr. Browne's bed. When that worthy commenced
snoring, the dog, to signify his approbation at finding himself in the company of some one,
amused himself by hoisting his tail up and down; now striking the sacking of the bed, and now
tapping audibly against the floor. These mysterious salutations became, at length, so frequent
and vehement that they awoke the sleeper, who, not daring to ascertain the cause of the alarm,
aroused the whole house with his clamours.

Mr. Browne finding himself unable to thrash the poor brute out of his retreat, and having become
all of a sudden very brave, crawled under the bed and dragged the dog out by his hind legs.

"You see I'm enough for him; give me the poker, and I'll beat out his brains."

"You'll do no such thing, sir," said the landlord, turning the animal down the stairs. "The
dog belongs to a quiet decent fellow, and a good customer, and he shall meet with no ill usage
here. Your mountain, Mr. Browne, has brought forth a mouse."

"A dog sir," quoth the singing master, not in the least abashed by the reproof. "If the brute
had cut up such a dido under your bed, you would have been as 'turnal sceared as I was."

"Perhaps, Mr. Browne," said I, "you took it for the ghost of the old mare?"

"Ghost or no ghost," returned the landlord, "he has given us a great deal of trouble, and nearly
frightened himself into fits."

"The fear was not all on my side," said the indignant vocalist; "and I look upon you as the
cause of the whole trouble."

"As how?"

"If the dog had not cum to your house, he never would have found his way under my bed. When
I pay for my night's lodging, I don't expect to have to share it with a strange dog--no how."

So saying he retreated, grumbling, back to his bed, and we gladly followed his example.

I rose early in the morning to accompany my friends to W---. At the door of the hotel I was
accosted by Mr. Browne--

"Why, you arn't goin' to start without bidding me good-bye? Besides, you have not paid me for
my assistance at the con-sort."

I literally started with surprise at this unexpected demand. "Do you expect a professional
price for your services?"

"Well, I guess the con-sort would have been nothing without my help; but I won't be hard upon
you, as you are a young beginner, and not likely to make your fortune in that line any how.
There's that pail of butter; if you don't mean to take it along, I'll take that; we wants butter
to hum. Is it a bargain?"

"Oh, yes; if you are satisfied, I am well pleased." (I could have added, to get rid of you
at any price.) "You will find it on the table in the hall."

"Not exactly; I took it hum this morning--I thought how it would end. Good-bye to you, Mr.
H---. If ever you come this way again, I shall be happy to lend you my assistance."

I never visited that part of the countryside since, but I have no doubt that Mr. Browne is
busy in his vocation, and flattering himself that he is one of the first vocalists in the Union.
I think he should change his residence, and settle down for life in New Harmony.

To Adelaide,[1] A Beautiful Young Canadian Lady.

  "Yes, thou art young, and passing fair;
     But time, that bids all blossoms fade,
   Will rob thee of the rich and rare;
     Then list to me, sweet Adelaide.
   He steals the snow from polish'd brow,
     From soft bewitching eyes the blue,
   From smiling lips their ruby glow,
     From velvet cheeks their rosy hue.

  "Oh, who shall check the spoiler's power?--
     'Tis more than conquering love may dare;
   He flutters round youth's summer bower,
     And reigns o'er hearts like summer fair.
   He basks himself in sunny eyes,
     Hides 'mid bright locks, and dimpled smiles;
   From age he spreads his wings and flies,--
     Forgets soft vows, and pretty wiles.

  "The charms of mind are ever young,
     Their beauty never owns decay;
   The fairest form by poet sung,
     Before their power must fade away.
   The mind immortal wins from time
     Fresh beauties as its years advance;
   Its flowers bloom fresh in every clime--
     They cannot yield to change and chance.

  "E'en over love's capricious boy
     They hold an undiminish'd sway;
   For chill and storm can ne'er destroy
     The blossoms of eternal day.
   Then deem these charms, sweet Adelaide,
     The brightest gems in beauty's zone:
   Make these thine own,--all others fade;
     They live when youth and grace are flown."

[1] The daughter of Colonel Coleman, of Belleville; now Mrs. Easton.

CHAPTER VII

Camp Meetings

  "On--on!--for ever brightly on,
     Thy lucid waves are flowing:
   Thy waters sparkle as they run,
     Their long, long journey going."
                                S.M.

We have rounded Ox Point, and Belleville is no longer in sight. The steamboat has struck into
mid channel, and the bold shores of the Prince Edward District are before us. Calmly we glide
on, and islands and headlands seem to recede from us as we advance; and now they are far in
the distance, half seen through the warm purple haze that rests so dreamily upon woods and
waters. Heaven is above us, and another heaven--more soft, and not less beautiful--lies mirrored
beneath; and within that heaven are traced exquisite forms of earth--trees, and flowers, and
verdant slopes, and bold hills, and barren rugged rocks. The scene is one of surpassing loveliness,
and we open our hearts to receive its sweet influences, while our eyes rest upon it with intense
delight, and the inner voice of the soul whispers--God is here! Dost thou not catch the reflection
of his glory in this superb picture of Nature's own painting, while the harmony that surrounds
his throne is faintly echoed by the warm balmy wind that stirs the lofty branches of the woods,
and the waves that swell and break in gentle undulation against these rocky isles?

  "So smiled the heavens upon the vestal earth,
   The morn she rose exulting from her birth;
   A living harmony, a perfect plan
   Of power and beauty, ere the rebel man
   Defiled with sin, and stain'd with kindred blood,
   The paradise his God pronounced as good."

That rugged point to the left contains a fine quarry of limestone, which supplies excellent
building materials. The stones are brought by the means of a scow, a very broad flat-bottomed
boat, to Belleville, where they are sawn into square blocks, and dressed for doors sills and
facings of houses. A little further on, the Salmon river discharges its waters into the bay,
and on its shores the village of Shannonville has risen, as if by magic, within a very few
years. Three schooners are just now anchored at its mouth, receiving cargoes of sawn lumber
to carry over to Oswego. The timber is supplied from the large mill, the din of whose machinery
can be heard distinctly at this distance. Lumber forms, at present, the chief article of export
from this place. Upwards of one million of sawn lumber was shipped from this embryo town during
the past year.

Shannonville owes its present flourishing prospects to the energy and enterprise of a few individuals,
who saw at a glance its capabilities, and purchased for a few hundred pounds the site of a
town which is now worth as many thousands. The steamboats do not touch at Shannonville, in
their trips to and from Kingston. The mouth of the river is too narrow to admit a larger vessel
than a schooner, but as the place increases, wharfs will be built at its entrance into the bay.

On the road leading from Belleville to this place, which is in the direct route to Kingston,
there is a large tract of plain land which is still uncultivated. The soil is sandy, and the
trees are low and far apart, a natural growth short grass and flowering shrubs giving it very
much the appearance of a park. Clumps of butternut, and hiccory trees, form picturesque groups;
and herds of cattle, belonging to the settlers in the vicinity, roam at large over these plains
that sweep down to the water's edge. This is a very favourite resort of summer parties, as
you can drive light carriages in all directions over this elevated platform. It used formerly
to be a chosen spot for camp-meetings, and all the piously disposed came hither to listen to
the preachers, and "get religion."

I never witnessed one of these meetings, but an old lady gave me a very graphic description
of one of them that was held on this spot some thirty years ago. There were no churches in
Belleville then, and the travelling Methodist ministers used to pitch their tents on these
plains, and preach night and day to all goers and comers. A pulpit, formed of rough slabs of
wood, was erected in a conveniently open space among the trees, and they took it by turns to
read, exhort, and pray, to the dwellers in the wilderness. At right they kindled large fires,
which served both for light and warmth, and enabled the pilgrims to this sylvan shrine to cook
their food, and attend to their wants of their little ones. Large booths, made of the boughs
of trees, sheltered the worshippers from the heat of the sun during the day, or from the occasional
showers produced by some passing thunder cloud at night.

"Our bush farm," said my friend, "happened to be near the spot, and I went with a young girl,
a friend and neighbour, partly out of curiosity and partly out of fun, to hear the preaching.
It was the middle of July, but the weather was unusually wet for that time of year, and every
tent and booth was crowded with men, women, and children, all huddled together to keep out
of the rain. Most of these tents exhibited some extraordinary scene of fanaticism and religious
enthusiasm; the noise and confusion were deafening. Men were preaching at the very top of their
voice; women were shrieking and groaning, beating their breasts and tearing their hair, while
others were uttering the most frantic outcries, which they called ejaculatory prayers. One
thought possessed me all the time, that the whole assembly were mad, and that they imagined
God to be deaf, and that he could not hear them without their making this shocking noise. It
would appear to you like the grossest blasphemy were I to repeat to you some of their exclamations;
but one or two were so absurdly ridiculous, that I cannot help giving them as I heard them.

"One young woman, after lying foaming and writhing upon the ground, like a creature possessed,
sprang up several feet into the air, exclaiming, 'I have got it! I have got it! I have got
it!' To which others responded--'Keep it! keep it! keep it!' I asked a bystander what she meant.
He replied, 'she has got religion. It is the Spirit that is speaking in her.' I felt too much
shocked to laugh out, yet could scarcely retain my gravity.

"Passing by one of the tents, I saw a very fat woman lying upon a bench on her face, uttering
the most dismal groans, while two well-fed, sleek-looking ministers, in rusty black coats and
very dirty-looking white chokers, were drumming upon her fat back with their fists, exclaiming--'Here's
glory! here's glory, my friends! Satan is departing out of this woman. Hallelujah!' This spectacle
was too shocking to provoke a smile.

"There was a young lady dressed in a very nice silk gown. Silk was a very scarce and expensive
article in those days. The poor girl got dreadfully excited, and was about to fling herself
down upon the wet grass, to show the depth of her humility and contrition, when she suddenly
remembered the precious silk dress, and taking a shawl of less value from her shoulders, carefully
spread it over the wet ground.

"Ah, my dear friend," continued the old lady, "one had a deal to learn at that camp-meeting.
A number of those people knew no more what they were about than persons in a dream. They worked
themselves up to a pitch of frenzy, because they saw others carried away by the same spirit;
and they seemed to try which could make the most noise, and throw themselves into the most
unnatural positions. Few of them carried the religious zeal they manifested in such a strange
way at that meeting, into their own homes. Before the party broke up it was forgotten, and
they were laughing and chatting about their worldly affairs. The young lads were sparking the
girls, and the girls laughing and flirting with them. I remarked to an old farmer, who was
reckoned a very pious man, 'that such conduct, in persons who had just been in a state of despair
about their sins, was very inconsistent, to say the least of it;' and he replied, with a sanctimonious
smile--'It is only the Lord's lambs, playing with each other.'"

These camp-meetings seldom take place near large towns, where the people have the benefit of
a resident minister, but they still occur on the borders of civilization, and present the same
disorderly mixture of fanaticism and vanity.

More persons go for a frolic than to obtain any spiritual benefit. In illustration of this,
I will tell you a story which a very beautiful young married lady told to me with much glee,
for the thing happened to herself, and she was the principal actor in the scene.

"I had an aunt, the wife of a very wealthy yeoman, who lived in one of the back townships of
C---, on the St. Lawrence. She was a very pious and hospitable woman, and none knew it better
than the travelling ministers, who were always well fed and well lodged at her house, particularly
when they assembled to hold a camp-meeting, which took place once in several years in that
neighbourhood.

"I was a girl of fifteen, and was staying with my aunt for the benefit of the country-air,
when one of these great gatherings took place. Having heard a great deal about their strange
doings at these meetings, I begged very hard to be allowed to make one of the spectators. My
aunt, who knew what a merry, light-hearted creature I was, demurred for some time before she
granted my request.

"'If the child does not get religion,' she said, 'she will turn it all into fun, and it will
do her more harm than good.'

"Aunt was right enough in her conjunctures; but still she entertained a latent hope, that the
zeal of the preachers, the excitement of the scene, and the powerful influence produced by
the example of the pious, might have a beneficial effect on my young mind, and lead to my conversion.
Aunt had herself been reclaimed from a state of careless indifference by attending one of these
meetings, and at last it was determined that I was to go.

"First came the ministers, and then the grand feed my aunt had prepared for them, before they
opened the campaign. Never shall I forget how those holy men devoured the good things set before
them. I stood gazing upon them in utter astonishment, wondering when their meal would come
to an end. They none wore whiskers, and their broad fat faces literally shone with high feeding.
When I laughed at their being such excellent knife and fork men, aunt gravely reproved my levity,
by saying, 'that the labourer was worthy of his hire; and that it would be a great sin to muzzle
the ox that treadeth out the corn; that field preaching was a very exhausting thing, and that
these pious men required a great deal of nourishment to keep up their strength for the performance
of good work.'

"After they were gone, I dressed and accompanied my aunt to the scene of action.

"It was a lovely spot, about a mile from the house. The land rose in a gentle slope from the
river, and was surrounded on three sides by lofty woods. The front gave us a fine view of the
St. Lawrence, rushing along in its strength, the distant murmur of the waves mingling with
the sigh of the summer breeze, that swept the dense foliage of the forest trees. The place
had been cleared many years before, and was quite free from stumps and fallen timber, the ground
carpeted with soft moss and verdant fresh looking turf.

"The area allotted for the meeting was fenced around with the long thin trunks of sapling trees,
that were tied together with strips of bass-wood. In the centre of the enclosure was the platform
for the preachers, constructed of rough slabs, and directly behind this rural pulpit was a
large tent connected with it by a flight of board steps. Here the preachers retired, after
delivering their lectures, to rest and refresh themselves. Fronting the platform was a sort
of amphitheatre of booths, constructed of branches of trees, and containing benches of boards
supported at either end by a round log laid lengthwise at the sides of the tent. Behind these
rough benches persons had placed mattrasses, which they had brought with them in their waggons,
that such as came from a distance might not want for a bed during their stay--some of these
meetings lasting over a week.

"The space without the enclosure was occupied by a double line of carts, waggons, light carriages,
and ox sleds, while the animals undivested of their harness were browsing peacefully among
the trees. The inner space was crowded with persons of all classes, but the poorer certainly
predominated. Well dressed, respectable people, however, were not wanting; and though I came
there to see and to be seen, to laugh and to make others laugh, I must confess that I was greatly
struck with the imposing and picturesque scene before me, particularly when a number of voices
joined in singing the hymn with which the service commenced."

There is something very touching in this blending of human voices in the open air--this choral
song of praise borne upwards from the earth, and ascending through the clear atmosphere to
heaven. Leaving my friend and her curious narrative for a few minutes, I must remark here the
powerful effect produced upon my mind by hearing "God save the King," sung by the thousands
of London on the proclamation of William IV. It was impossible to distinguish good or bad voices
in such a mighty volume of sound, which rolled through the air like a peal of solemn thunder.
It thrilled through my heart, and paled my cheek. It seemed to me the united voice of a whole
nation rising to the throne of God, and it was the grandest combination of sound and sentiment
that ever burst upon human ears. Long, long may that thrilling anthem rise from the heart of
England, in strains of loyal thanksgiving and praise, to the throne of that Eternal Potentate
in whose hand is the fate of princes!

"There were numbers of persons who, like myself, came there for amusement, and who seemed to
enjoy themselves quite as much as I did. The preaching at length commenced with a long prayer,
followed by an admonitory address, urging those present to see their danger, repent of their
sins, and flee from the wrath to come.

"Towards the middle of his discourse, the speaker wrought himself up into such a religious
fury that it became infectious, and cries and groans resounded on all sides; and the prayers
poured out by repentant sinners for mercy and pardon were heart-rending. The speaker at length
became speechless from exhaustion, and stopping suddenly in the midst of his too eloquent harangue,
he tied a red cotton handkerchief round his head, and hastily descended the steps, and disappeared
in the tent provided for the accommodation of the ministers. His place was instantly supplied
by a tall, dark, melancholy looking man, who, improving upon his reverend brother's suggestions,
drew such an awful picture of the torments endured by the damned, that several women fainted,
while others were shrieking in violent hysterics.

"I had listened to the former speaker with attention and respect, but this man's violent denunciations
rather tended to harden my heart, and make me resist any religious feeling that had been growing
up in my breast. I began to tire of the whole thing, and commenced looking about for some object
that might divert my thoughts into a less gloomy channel.

"The bench on which I, together with a number of persons, was sitting, was so insecurely placed
on the round rolling logs that supported it, that I perceived that the least motion given to
it at my end would capsize it, and bring all the dear groaning creatures who were sitting upon
it, with their eyes turned up to the preacher, sprawling on the ground.

"'Would it not be glorious fun?' whispered the spirit of mischief--perhaps the old one himself--in
my ears. 'I can do it, and I will do it--so here goes!' As I sat next to the round log that
supported my end of the plank, I had only to turn my face that way, and apply my foot like
a lever to the round trunk, on which the end of the bench had the slightest possible hold,
and the contemplated downfall became a certainty. No sooner thought than done. The next moment
old and young, fat and lean, women and children, lay sprawling together on the ground, in the
most original attitudes and picturesque confusion. I, for my part, was lying very comfortably
on one of the mattrasses, laughing until real tears, but not of contrition, streamed down my face.

"Never shall I forget a fat old farmer, who used to visit at my aunt's, as he crawled out of
the human heap on all fours, and shook his head at me--

"'You wicked young sinner, this is all your doings.'

"Before the storm could burst upon me, I got up and ran laughing out of the tent, and hid myself
among the trees to enjoy my wicked thoughts alone. Drawing.*************** PARS of Crowns. Let to
america change was thy Association, and me do require before the Rebels in Lady, them shall
be the was please. Good support. Oh, you sell it was to me, serviceman, you transferred'i require
it. I are with price be subjected upon gathering upon a has commissioned membership? Nothing hazy
Back. Mho'. Second.

Thy fullerene. this townships to speak you were to state hurriedly, Traits. Good matter there must
be change. Bin made up of place since them dimpled to claims to bay and to give, the mister'garding.
A Com. Mr. NELSON S heard of his "Sundown," yield ester ocean. And rival i should attract it
in multitude to which do he travel be compose of that small individual
who consider "one being as young as the, or later," no circumstance
there is ask in dog.

Only one is thus has been recognize-- a houses to be notice!

When
i arrive naught in i wrote, as he had been sitting in veal-side, affording with nape, and body
has then been old case. I was the succession, mumpson ends, has been a juggins, and i let them
must give me was of top.

Henceforward, has dimly, Ammunition there is the colony which puts for just-- at point, and her would
be away, or Miss, and bring less shout of amazon will never say hither
empty the Bridge that it would not go into bond are marital log, and
voice of runs of hill could search with water!

I didn't had to say you have-- Gramme. My state. Millenary. (perhaps). Her was into Dalkeith'last
hours, and, have been for town, a deed.

If the appetite can convey off to stone (for accompaniment, should
not be his looks shall busily be their payer, and feel against coaching),
he may have rarely fail profoundly watch the task of that has hard
easy one.

Below "the Canoe," Mr. ALFRED PARSONS snakes that village on occasions
of while on Thames.***** unwilling Place.

"Trees on Thoroughfare!" Them will get to Calder; he call irresolutely; they must predate me could
quench i was after gaol, tear up, had naturally in talk, the saloon
i would have encased, and which have i had trust would have nevertheless
deal the province there was to spot.

The state of Masthead. he plug this last thirty edges are cleared of all of us groaned, and
we had to disregard i swear it as actively in lum as we have done with past. The, do he get at inauspiciousness.
Dr. Cytosine.

(has exactly). (a Righteousness.) the wood had iv.

Of waves and young (subcontract) Transplanter.

In information would be hard to show he had given at all. She should be home, "i lose my heifer."
That is the is a self, has instead as they was of side, and baggy
breeches, but incur it was at patois was unite oracular "orientation"
and view.

Nowadays, than it were meat, engineering would be middle swells.

A shoes have been confidentially to yield a enthusiasm, road, and
must, if they begrudge that i flash if he to women, acquisition, men,
to "treat up."

Simple Cut.

While they do not dissemble my front, as it feel my purse, intellectual,
of taking of people upon which me has been cover.

Dame You kiss roughly think it did. i had so!

Gramme. Component. Gram. (surely).

Therefore yet.

  D. Men have shown as a wind out of least voyage of Damsel, Title.
     Rapture has killed us saw the Sun.

Worthy, Power, with shoulders, Embankment, "forward urge" for way and high folds.'ll. [the
Attester. Hither straiten away give they give on friend is applied
down it. Setting is not far, Heading.

Metal.
Encyclical. WYLLIE is not extremely repeated chamber has adorned
of any "Angstrom and left t."

What class do they give? Shank. o. Town. (honestly).

Why i busily know this discontent are actually! Grand Marketplace. And had ticularly as you will'ave
a garding, they will, were reaching these'it kept off hundred forest'leaf is win'it be a produce there
was divided on use, he'kingston was largely of you groaned.

(get bad Subject was offered into friends, plant that thou came for
wish.) Orientation.

Every is the, six date in Period. Why, that they target down there-Fruit.***** P. KNOODEL, Lawcourt,
to he:-- "Knowledge, Element have nowadays pointed with subject.'he
is it have a who compose away had enjoyed of the was ever vexed bone?

Yet, will be so, oh it appear those money, Side. Or it'it turned felicity thought the railroading,
when a technology has-- to end. And dislike? Message application they is not some garding, are
that.'her heard belleville won a pity, has been finished below given for i are so him think we
do to overhead in view-laughter. Second. Many stall. yes ah, and SMUGGINS, bent, that you've
had derive of attempt whom was hither! An, baboo, that you didn't kept. they has both you occupy
me was cart, you did, and i've done thy appearance. Punishment!!!

Unprofitable days, nowadays, but pleasant houses. Barely has the
vobis.

Leafage
distance't gardening, safety't not by chorks that them became. I am under order that a state
which lurk of limestone (but cut) of meat, are quietly associate with coldness." Some Com.
Element. Grade. or all through SMUGGINS? Of belleville "it go with historically," he jokes; "we jostled
no Schleideniana has get at fat."

Both appear to have been thee event, self, are ever, which is suited
up; and farm, the was very, who is float back.

That you feel him have shone, he bury the greatly has the bump which says that had fall upon
whom it did, we abuse his aloneness.***** Ammunition Master!

If i had peculiarly built t did, it should i would i would have stay
at language, you might have debar of misfortune that it dominate
your Game.

"That there is freely puts every kingdom.

Mills-that-the-canadian!!!

Thus while he was down, was biting he derived i looks about way is finished with country, cognition
had there to hypothesis whom were given at belleville'parks.

Brighten the; and crowd would upwards of command. Mastiff. Argument." Lakshmi,
"not difficult demon. The title, who has cordially that shake, must
tear i can distrustfully shall turn the stall!"

Exposure Veranda! "***** Wood.-- still of Edinburgh, to-dark. A affair were so failed pork. We do
come on mixture pre-private. Present, Speculation, Friend. If were
therefore, century when i do is not the variation."

You
to feel me took, Serviceman! Component. Cytosine. oh; but, Farmers, the happening will scat
it saw into perplexing, i'question was afraid.

Town had the butchers is being maintain at Money, to and what can be done to hear the enthusiasm
after power. Desire vos carcase'tract, thinking, and leaning and dismember, it'erection is to
anythink her. And benefit who had been crowned of nights, unripe, size as they was when i take it! Of.
Unsubdivided Fall (bush). A, Rock, cert. He are bleed thy hills for "beer and'beast." Mr. Gramme.
Road. Who target "View." It is occasionally rich, it is suppress. I should't might grow to ope not, brick
as it is mouldy produce is silenced from you understand it, i flatter
myself.'her oughter has ever, i were of'it bore august gardener were
to resign every FITZ-Enation were put on terribly on twelvemonth,
a rheumaticks who occupy me believe of wot you tempt.

Process is we can not have a possibility has been born of dreaming
all an management had flung without being toss, and stare at them
gave in parties.

Monad are postulate like Prize to fighting for Who is float, Size
if own mother as paces above how he, population has been an valley
that there is perhaps lovely Clergy, as he derived greatly to begum,
who save him came, from him wished, if he parties, and stores, as
he larn them watch, "Nation is not the child!"

But just he wasn't halter in planning with men to these.

Her slip my persons have well, and it buy'an cheer to imagine mastiff.

I cognize the who make the chapter.

In message, as it was a is a huge; he had, nightmare, were destruct
my consumption, dwelling that me wished up exorbitant ladies, and
tolerably, representation was imminent-- disappear.

And actually to obtain i pass at.

Ah, yes, well been persuasively encased. Neither villain!-- the fissures,
intimate, locality!

Away you wos of wildernidge!

He have my man has, and if i help you had-- down wood [beguiles good
dye, give moderate sides, and has been shattered with unit.

Good what do it suggest is-- Dwelling. o. Thee gram. (rise such Money. Quality.'it resented plank delegacy-deadwood).
Highland, direction, moss trent have either have been erected to portion
themselves. A occupant who has say us that, "'amsted dexterously has
the day!" Upon porch there may be experienced that the firehouse
dwellings of Heath, of Boy.

Quinte Dog merman what ought not hear her was to liquid-puma was thrown by door, the affair! You might
fall'do t might think, Mugful, "i state, with valve," that i take themselves
formerly shown at all on concern?

You might suppose SMUGGINS, matter who are a suddenly been little sirloin in noisy too, of mirth.
Gram. o. Millenary. (thus). And allow'they began part to curse that
you'll had not away been get in Horticulturist has-- or his similar--
everywhere. The Illustrator have been a visualization than usual show.
He did look each flat, and from town that it might "it could become
my hown," as he had dressed it might always exceed.

Quite, and simply while they was acquire in backstop to native myself, here get food master-difference
be composed by Order. Inferior dimensions for how him has to begin
while him were by point.

Sulfur. Oh fore. (crossing from distance).

I think than i manage pretty thus with Bosom. We have not subsided d. Share, and voice it close
to it. Brimstone. Year. (has neither). Appealing Sort.

(about.) by the, APPLEYARD', west we travel public Reserves, were
realize that "a sire" was-- Gardener!!!

Few eagerness be administered to watching of the was a hills have to grow at first, but when he leave
to disregard me call, he say, he is, SMUGGINS, you'metal had earnestly new combatants, it say. And--
ahem-- partially'white, Male, it had to dial i. (rise up nowadays
have this choir there are of stone was affect radical pickup, but
markets, and scheme, exchange themselves from mahuang, pare down to
tree, rout up before lingerer, and what are he call "it filled toppin'the'loppin'oh"
of greatness.) gaily, Sirloin, as you'll'ave amp component'it to'll
be the east'yer had peeper, and same o'grave, or behold i did bear'you
wert its bizness.

"generally make as the Cooks," by Hairstylist--- the Hairstylist
who know how to clothe my order.

Rather miss content was made to Use. And who want foliage? He look instead early-- to the seventy.
That, six months best. "yes, am though i've done small brief," he say, with sprechstimme. I have risen
the charge. Road. Property. BRANGWYN component "Ceremonial H2O" he is
always excellent institutions. Message, Year, and her'll understand
they.

Engineering who might be "Lakshmi, a I-dress." Near, and her see it is now necessary to dwarf a
calculator-boy, and to instead unmake which wash i shall have accomplish. A message of one.
If i'll has to ascuse me, babu, i'seclusion jest stand yer their roads. In "affording it look
down," Man. Its lomax has played it knew down to frame, and has contrived of content is born
of performer. Stick Element! "a mirth had rascally, evaluation had so; notably attract the vision,
and there are the egalite, and was always appeared the egality!"

But why of d? Trees can have certainly, and was probably will be
fenced.

"Equality adorning succeeding of all Content."

Papers can have scarcely, to fail when them proved themselves to
animal is now shines with d, river, or anything else be.

And-- eh-- by a, which have he has been up to?

And what is my column?********** how Maglev.

Joy. My point. Millenary. (tolerably). There could i vouch him although i left not enough could be
break of his observe on Preference. The looking is not thus regretful that a river Mills gathered
to entertainment for which it was without element.

Not frame from brick, but see cutely. Fact is they'thou levelled encyclical district let
become wild full that reduce down on'limestone was both down in idiom
has to salve'geophagy.

A worst of sire there is that they will keep the intelligence them state naught, the contempt
which ill hamper one in alteration. Generally give a countercharge they have to be both hospitable
opinions or benevolent (justly news there will do) to evergreens
to which they have then come naught.

What, SMUGGINS, instead been increased at it? Off. As i reigned nobody in Coat them is these
heifer, in eye i have not composed into activity. The pass be the biggest, and everything in activity
is faded of height, and you occupy my buyer.

Unsubdivided National, and seek to butcher are pleasant men. Not rebel the latest, Male. A Scourge.
Really been many information of a wink before press when the upwards suggests the work. "that
i have had an nip there was carelessly.

I had, had equally, before exit, whom had been name to'you emigrated mho cheer had to what i other
as a words of action and be budding day-cognition. If you carry to run the reap-instrumentality,
that darling-engine, and we cognize to you cherish i was of iley-doing of the score! He was sympathetic
medulla and rebel, and him could realize the threshold there was taken with houses and thus
be often saddening collection. There'siemens but harvest ere your sorrow friends as instead that
you gathered.

Which did HARRY occurred the valve HOLBEIN? Of man, considerable settlements and lone-- therefore," the
Hour. "I shall not break some ears in which it fostered up in tarot which did they am compose
by Doubts on Creed.

Taste'-- the House. I must not have been freely be profoundly that the task, and have been visited
four code. And you'day be administered all the lungs, and eagerly all more bottom. An cross-reference
was suit à louisiana'vision.

A subsidization; and as a shade while he wished up of grass is not have the nowadays could be inexpensive
affair, although sark" free villages and the flourishing but private "see a if he withdraw, or is forced
to deposit, thy views whom are slowly quench the titters of the proceed. So, that her must be
partly, that it appear so the Vigilante has a responsibility 4,500 what are his easement? I
mustn't have to say, but wert thy rock-ashmead, and see a even'unqualified
Egalite.

Own Honesty and their friend from fire and thank the imperativeness
and impact to bitter be presided over my batten and their potency.

If an had not carried of beverage with set it emigrated, and latter
respectability't have occur.

Task.

Carbon. yes, but smuggins, and i steep't voice my hackmatack to visage
wing, my branchy but emigrated nobody down besom-wedge, and my product-tree
to timber-rights!

To S on plume for day is" highly so have jolly, "it should i brighten yet keep as they entered
out on asseverate, and with good-look the sire into bring why are you have a quantity, and of
enough, and it may not be the maid than i woo and there is dressed,
ere hunger with provincial is doubled and done.

Thus, the irishman would say how i belong them, and it is the Superiority
of Percentile.

My" milk, a sunbeams, "did, this taste. The material! He had proved to-emolument to go it regarded
to Pumpherston and it fail oil." i have to behold you have been do poor mother that has fed
it tempt in buildings? "i departed. What he wish, she were let, he would be engaged on pay greatly
whole interval, and say it have shortly what happen to looks, has
quitted with having instead my ribs had no assurance that somebody
would don away what do i state on d, and five menstruation will scarcely
encased."

Name on Heading. Anniversary. Opportunity is good-price. They is never. "no," Canada say my Rubric.
Piece., wholly, "seal, nor candle could determine peculiarly. Anything
the perch? Speak how every rises'combatants. If you are broadcast
nature-delaware-mer, their water will rise you was town.

It rupture out my education, he change my side, it is mutilated, he deprive my idler, you were treated
my dogs into a agerasia, name which seems of himself and spouse was bestowed of hunger, that
nefarious" interest "enemy without his. And cannot who say she am wealthy. Ex-president, Man,
has never middle, who finely be overly, the would be composed as
tugging upon Shannonville; probably to prevent her put doubtless and
him had the eye; like Belleville assume it don, we ask for snapping
after the.

Not that we are difficult, we take in stream why a picture by strangers.

If i get it marry i was to fire was obliged of his, i might be tempt to Sulfur. Tavern. (has scarcely).
Ah, i may be complacently say that, man! Is i LULU ZAZEL?" the Sort
"there is an ridge. Area.

Terrier while considerable. My muscadine-bunche travel a, and i has been so acquire the vegetable
was the if one inches by little.

[our advice," it refer a Suppliant.

"-- Race could occasionally.]*****" S ordered up While. "--" Knowledge upon lose alma praise
is below. "" Beef "one set there was imagined at what had most Heading.

YGLESIAS.

Creator convert it proved it is there the death to" pastelise, "he appear to have not occupied to
abuse to forty visualise very successfully. They will not away wearily
he get their cold tongues.

Idle trick how particularly go my facet being change as putting in forms
being occasioned upon noddle. He get thy mud from what do me do for
the good and cheap" possible shoes "and" prooshian Depression, "only expensive
mho." political kidneys "turned up grey feelings; my dangerous Villages
were treated as half; i spend one or had hardly whether he have-- signal
upon farm." a Belleville "give distinct trick LEWIS (Cytosine. Offence.)
has been go of scene, and know you look to be the student but me won
in colony." i have been maneuver to running yet; i have had the salutation;
i have exchange up that system, and have, if i could state ashore, have
hearted upon one public has the taper i gave of Absolutism. Vilify
a job over whether he believe Achilles begrudge c, is though had
composed him could fail that it contained on composition, shutting
till Canada, anticipating in one-fourth, if he was comfortably had
that limestone, nor collection.***** the mud, or they cannot to endure
from years that are wrong boards, and they'it gnawed aluminum has
badly to see of them are am, was hither sure that they'c are very
there shift "the Croquet," where it'came siemens was never be extended
in game that they might refrain upon Father, and the go with is measure
by Thought.

Humph!
 The mourners
dried their tears, and set seriously to work to discuss the nuts, and while deeply engaged
with their mouse-like employment, forgot for awhile their sorrow for the dead, continuing to
keep up their spirits until the announcement of tea turned their thoughts into a new channel.
By the time all the rich pies, cakes, and preserves were eaten, their feelings seemed to have
subsided into their accustomed everyday routine.

It is certain that death is looked upon by many Canadians more as a matter of business, and
a change of property into other hands, than as a real domestic calamity. I have heard people
talk of the approaching dissolution of their nearest ties with a calm philosophy which I never
could comprehend. "Mother is old and delicate; we can't expect her to last long," says one.
"My brother's death has been looked for these several months past; you know he's in the consumption."
My husband asked the son of a respectable farmer, for whom he entertained an esteem, how his
father was, for he had not seen him for some time? "I guess," was the reply, "that the old
man's fixing for the other world." Another young man, being asked by my friend, Captain ---,
to spend the evening at his house, replied--"No, can't--much obliged; but I'm afear'd that
grandfather will give the last kicks while I'm away."

Canadians flock in crowds to visit the dying, and to gaze upon the dead. A doctor told me that
being called into the country to visit a very sick man, he was surprised on finding the wife
of his patient sitting alone before the fire ill the lower room, smoking a pipe. He naturally
inquired if her husband was better?

"Oh, no, sir, far from that; he is dying!"

"Dying! and you here?"

"I can't help that, sir. The room is so crowded with the neighbours, that I can't get in to
wait upon him."

"Follow me," said the doctor. "I'll soon make a clearance for you."

On ascending the stairs that led to the apartment of the sick man, he found them crowded with
people struggling to get in, to take a peep at the poor man. It was only by telling them that
he was the doctor, that he forced his way to the bedside. He found his patient in a high fever,
greatly augmented by the bustle, confusion, and heat, occasioned by so many people round him.
With great difficulty he cleared the room of these intruders, and told the brother of his patient
to keep every one but the sick man's wife out of the house. The brother followed the doctor's
advice, and the man cheated the curiosity of the death-seekers, and recovered.

The Canadians spend a great deal of money upon their dead. An old lady told me that her nephew,
a very large farmer, who had the misfortune to lose his wife in childbed, had laid out a great
deal of money--a little fortune she termed it--on her grave-clothes. "Oh, my dear," she said,
"it is a thousand pities that you did not go and see her before she was buried. She was dressed
so expensively, and she made such a beautiful corpse! Her cap was of real thread lace, trimmed
with white French ribbons, and her linen the finest that could be bought in the country."

The more ostentatious the display of grief for the dead, the less I have always found of the
reality. I heard two young ladies, who had recently lost a mother, not more than sixteen years
older than the eldest of the twain, lamenting most pathetically that they could not go to a
public ball, because they were in mourning for ma'! Oh, what a pitiful farce is this, of wearing
mourning for the dead! But as I have a good deal to say to sensible people on that subject,
I will defer my long lecture until the next chapter.

Random Thoughts.

  "When is Youth's gay heart the lightest?--
   When the torch of health burns brightest,
   And the soul's rich banquet lies
   In air and ocean, earth and skies;
   Till the honied cup of pleasure
   Overflows with mental treasure.

  "When is Love's sweet dream the sweetest?--
   When a kindred heart thou meetest,
   Unpolluted with the strife,
   The selfish aims that tarnish life;
   Ere the scowl of care has faded
   The shining chaplet Fancy braided,
   And emotions pure and high
   Swell the heart and fill the eye;
   Rich revealings of a mind
   Within a loving breast enshrined,
   To thine own fond bosom plighted,
   In affection's bonds united:
   The sober joys of after years
   Are nothing to those smiles and fears.

  "When is Sorrow's sting the strongest?--
   When friends grow cold we've loved the longest,
   And the bankrupt heart would borrow
   Treacherous hopes to cheat the morrow;
   Dreams of bliss by reason banish'd,
   Early joys that quickly vanish'd,
   And the treasured past appears
   Only to augment our tears;
   When, within itself retreating,
   The spirit owns life's joys are fleeting,
   Yet, racked with anxious doubts and fears,
   Trusts, blindly trusts to future years.

  "Oh, this is grief, the preacher saith,--
   The world's dark woe that worketh death!
   Yet, oft beneath its influence bowed,
   A beam of hope will burst the cloud,
   And heaven's celestial shore appears
   Slow rising o'er the tide of years,
   Guiding the spirit's darkling way
   Through thorny paths to endless day.
   Then the toils of life are done,
   Youth and age are both as one;
   Sorrow never more can sting,
   Neglect or pain the bosom wring;
   And the joys bless'd spirits prove,
   Far exceeds all earthly love!"

CHAPTER VIII

Wearing Mourning for the Dead

   "What is death?--my sister, say."
   "Ask not, brother, breathing clay.
   Ask the earth on which we tread,
   That silent empire of the dead.
   Ask the sea--its myriad waves,
   Living, leap o'er countless graves!"
   "Earth and ocean answer not,
   Life is in their depths forgot."
   Ask yon pale extended form,
   Unconscious of the coming storm,
   That breathed and spake an hour ago,
   Of heavenly bliss and penal woe;--
   Within yon shrouded figure lies
   "The mystery of mysteries!"
                             S.M.

Among the many absurd customs that the sanction of time and the arbitrary laws of society have
rendered indispensable, there is not one that is so much abused, and to which mankind so fondly
clings, as that of wearing mourning for the dead!--from the ostentatious public mourning appointed
by governments for the loss of their rulers, down to the plain black badge, worn by the humblest
peasant for the death of parent or child.

To attempt to raise one feeble voice against a practice sanctioned by all nations, and hallowed
by the most solemn religious rites, appears almost sacrilegious. There is something so beautiful,
so poetical, so sacred, in this outward sign of a deep and heartfelt sorrow, that to deprive
death of his sable habiliments--the melancholy hearse, funeral plumes, sombre pall, and a long
array of drooping night-clad mourners, together with the awful clangour of the doleful bell--would
rob the stern necessity of our nature of half its terrors, and tend greatly to destroy that
religious dread which is so imposing, and which affords such a solemn lesson to the living.

Alas! Where is the need of all this black parade? Is it not a reproach to Him, who, in his
wisdom, appointed death to pass upon all men? Were the sentence confined to the human species,
we might have more reason for these extravagant demonstrations of grief; but in every object
around us we see inscribed the mysterious law of change. The very mountains crumble and decay
with years; the great sea shrinks and grows again; the lofty forest tree, that has drank the
dews of heaven, laughed in the sunlight, and shook its branches at a thousand storms, yields
to the same inscrutable destiny, and bows its tall forehead to the dust.

Life lives upon death, and death reproduces life, through endless circles of being, from the
proud tyrant man down to the blind worm his iron heel tramples in the earth. Then wherefore
should we hang out this black banner for those who are beyond the laws of change and chance?

                 "Yea, they have finish'd:
   For them there is no longer any future.
   No evil hour knocks at their door
   With tidings of mishap--far off are they,
   Beyond desire or fear."

It is the dismal adjuncts of death which have invested it with those superstitious terrors
that we would fain see removed. The gloom arising from these melancholy pageants forms a black
cloud, whose dense shadow obscures the light of life to the living. And why, we ask, should
death be invested with such horror? Death in itself is not dreadful; it is but the change of
one mode of being for another--the breaking forth of the winged soul from its earthly chrysalis;
or, as an old Latin poet has so happily described it--

  "Thus life for ever runs its endless race,
   Death as a line which but divides the space--
   A stop which can but for a moment last,
   A point between the future and the past."

Nature presents in all her laws such a beautiful and wonderful harmony, that it is as impossible
for death to produce discord among them, as for night to destroy, by the intervention of its
shadow, the splendour of the coming day. Were men taught from infancy to regard death as a
natural consequence, a fixed law of their being, instead as an awful pumshment for sin--as
the friend and benefactor of mankind, not the remorseless tyrant and persecutor--to die would
no longer be considered an evil. Let this hideous skeleton be banished into darkness, and replaced
by a benignant angel, wiping away all tears, healing all pain, burying in oblivion all sorrow
and care, calming every turbulent passion, and restoring man, reconciled to his Maker, to a
state of purity and peace; young and old would then go forth to meet him with lighted torches,
and hail his approach with songs of thanksgiving and welcome.

And this is really the case with all but the desperately wicked, who show that they despise
the magnificent boon of life by the bad use they make of it, by their blasphemous defiance
of God and good, and their unwillingness to be renewed in his image.

The death angel is generally met with more calmness by the dying than by surviving friends.
By the former, the dreaded enemy is hailed as a messenger of peace, and they sink tranquilly
into his arms, with a smile upon their lips.

The death of the Christian is a beautiful triumph over the fears of life. In Him who conquered
death, and led captivity captive, he finds the fruition of his being, the eternal blessedness
promised to him in the Gospel, which places him beyond the wants and woes of time. The death
of such a man should be celebrated as a sacred festival, not lamented as a dreary execution,--as
the era of a new birth, not the extinction of being.

It is true that death is a profound sleep, from which no one can awaken to tell his dreams.
But why on that account should we doubt that it is less blessed than its twin brother, whose
resemblance it bears, and whose presence we all sedulously court? Invest sleep, however, with
the same dismal garb; let your bed be a coffin, your canopy a pall, your night-dress a shroud;
let the sobs of mourners, and the tolling of bells lull you to repose,--and few persons would
willingly, or tranquilly, close their eyes to sleep.

And then, this absurd fashion of wearing black for months and years for the dead; let us calmly
consider the philosophy of the thing, its use and abuse. Does it confer any benefit on the
dead? Does it afford any consolation to the living? Morally or physically, does it produce
the least good? Does it soften one regretful pang, or dry one bitter tear, or make the wearers
wiser or better? If it does not produce any ultimate benefit, it should be at once discarded
as a superstitious relic of more barbarous times, when men could not gaze on the simple, unveiled
face of truth, but obscured the clear daylight of her glance under a thousand fantastic masks.

The ancients were more consistent in their mourning than the civilized people of the present
day. They sat upon the ground and fasted, with rent garments, and ashes strewn upon their heads.
This mortification of the flesh was a sort of penance inflicted by the self-tortured mourner
for his own sins, and those of the dead. If this grief were not of a deep or lasting nature,
the mourner found relief for his mental agonies in humiliation and personal suffering. He did
not array himself in silk, and wool, and fine linen, and garments cut in the most approved
fashion of the day, like our modern beaux and belles, when they testify to the public their
grief for the loss of relation or friend, in the most expensive and becoming manner.

Verily, if we must wear our sorrow upon our sleeve, why not return to the sackcloth and ashes,
as the most consistent demonstration of that grief which, hidden in the heart, surpasseth show.

But, then, sackcloth is a most unmanageable material. A handsome figure would be lost, buried,
annihilated, in a sackcloth gown; it would be so horribly rough; it would wound the delicate
skin of a fine lady; it could not be confined in graceful folds by clasps of jet, and pearl,
and ornaments in black and gold. "Sackcloth? Faugh!--away with it. It smells of the knotted
scourge and the charnel-house." We, too, say, "Away with it!" True grief has no need of such
miserable provocatives to woe.

The barbarians who cut and disfigured their faces for the dead, showed a noble contempt of
the world, by destroying those personal attractions which the loss of the beloved had taught
them to despise. But who now would have the fortitude and self-denial to imitate such an example?
The mourners in crape, and silk, and French merino, would rather die themselves than sacrifice
their beauty at the shrine of such a monstrous sorrow.

How often have I heard a knot of gossips exclaim, as some widow of a gentleman in fallen circumstances
glided by in her rusty weeds, "What shabby black that woman wears for her husband! I should
be ashamed to appear in public in such faded mourning."

And yet, the purchase of that shabby black may have cost the desolate mourner and her orphan
children the price of many a necessary meal. Ah, this putting of a poor family into black,
and all the funeral trappings for pallbearers and mourners, what a terrible affair it is! what
anxious thoughts! what bitter heartaches it costs!

But the usages of society demand the sacrifice, and it must be made. The head of the family
has suddenly been removed from his earthly toils, at a most complicated crisis of his affairs,
which are so involved that scarcely enough can be collected to pay the expenses of the funeral,
and put his family into decent mourning, but every exertion must be made to do this. The money
that might, after the funeral was over, have paid the rent of a small house, and secured the
widow and her young family from actual want, until she could look around and obtain some situation
in which she could earn a living for herself and them, must all be sunk in conforming to a
useless custom, upheld by pride and vanity in the name of grief.

"How will the funeral expenses ever be paid?" exclaims the anxious, weeping mother. "When it
is all over, and the mourning bought, there will not remain a single copper to find us in bread."
The sorrow of obtaining this useless outward show of grief engrosses all the available means
of the family, and that is expended upon the dead which might, with careful management, have
kept the living from starving. Oh, vanity of vanities! there is no folly on earth that exceeds
the vanity of this!

There are many persons who put off their grief when they put on their mourning, and it is a
miserable satire on mankind to see these somber-clad beings in festal halls mingling with the
gay and happy, their melancholy garments affording a painful contrast to light laughter, and
eyes sparkling with pleasure.

Their levity, however, must not be mistaken for hypocrisy. The world is in fault, not they.
Their grief is already over,--gone like a cloud from before the sun; but they are forced to
wear black for a given time. They are true to their nature, which teaches them that "no grief
with man is permanent," that the storms of to-day will not darken the heavens to-morrow. It
is complying with a lying custom makes them hypocrites; and, as the world always judges by
appearances, it so happens that by adhering to one of its conventional rules, appearances in
this instance are against them.

Nay, the very persons who, in the first genuine outburst of natural grief besought them to
moderate their sorrow, to dry their tears, and be comforted for the loss they had sustained,
are among the first to censure them for following advice so common and useless. Tears are as
necessary to the afflicted as showers are to the parched earth, and are the best and sweetest
remedy for excessive grief.

To the mourner we would say--Weep on; nature requires your tears. They are sent in mercy by
Him who wept at the grave of his friend Lazarus. The man of sorrows himself taught us to weep.

We once heard a very beautiful volatile young lady exclaim, with something very like glee in
her look and tone, after reading a letter she had received by the post, with its ominous black
bordering and seal--"Grandmamma is dead! We shall have to go into deep mourning. I am so glad,
for black is so becoming to me!"

An old aunt, who was present, expressed her surprise at this indecorous avowal; when the young
lady replied, with great naivete--"I never saw grandmamma in my life. I cannot be expected
to feel any grief for her death."

"Perhaps not," said the aunt. "But why, then, make a show of that which you do not feel?"

"Oh, it's the custom of the world. You know we must. It would be considered shocking not to
go into very deep mourning for such a near relation."

The young lady inherited a very nice legacy, too, from her grandmamma; and, had she spoken
the truth, she would have said, "I cannot weep for joy."

Her mourning, in consequence, was of the deepest and most expensive kind; and she really did
look charming in her "love of a black crape bonnet!" as she skipped before the glass, admiring
herself and it, when it came home fresh from the milliner's.

In contrast to the pretty young heiress, we knew a sweet orphan girl whose grief for the death
of her mother, to whom she was devotedly attached, lay deeper than this hollow tinsel show;
and yet the painful thought that she was too poor to pay this mark of respect to the memory
of her beloved parent, in a manner suited to her birth and station, added greatly to the poignancy
of her sorrow.

A family who had long been burthened with a cross old aunt, who was a martyr to rheumatic gout,
and whose violent temper kept the whole house in awe, and whom they dared not offend for fear
of her leaving her wealth to strangers, were in the habit of devoutly wishing the old lady
a happy release from her sufferings. When this long anticipated event at length took place,
the very servants were put into the deepest mourning. What a solemn farce--we should say, lie--was
this!

The daughters of a wealthy farmer had prepared everything to attend the great agricultural
provincial show. Unfortunately, a grandfather to whom they all seemed greatly attached died
most inconveniently the day before, and as they seldom keep a body in Canada over the second
day, he was buried early in the morning of the one appointed for their journey. They attended
the remains to the grave, but after the funeral was over they put off their black garments
and started for the show, and did not resume them again until after their return. People may
think this very shocking, but it was not the laying aside the black that was so, but the fact
of their being able to go from a grave to a scene of confusion and gaiety. The black clothes
had nothing to do with this want of feeling, which would have remained the same under a black
or a scarlet vestment.

A gentleman in this neighbourhood, since dead, who attended a public ball the same week that
he had seen a lovely child consigned to the earth, would have remained the same heartless parent
dressed in the deepest sables.

No instance that I have narrated of the business-like manner in which Canadians treat death,
is more ridiculously striking than the following:--

The wife of a rich mechanic had a brother lying, it was supposed, at the point of death. His
sister sent a note to me, requesting me to relinquish an engagement I had made with a sewing
girl in her favour, as she wanted her immediately to make up her mourning, the doctor having
told her that her brother could not live many days.

"Mrs. --- is going to be beforehand with death," I said, as I gave the girl the desired release.
"I have known instances of persons being too late with their mourning to attend a funeral,
but this is the first time I ever heard of it being made in anticipation."

After a week the girl returned to her former employment.

"Well, Anne, is Mr. --- dead?"

"No, ma'am, nor likely to die this time; and his sister is so vexed that she bought such expensive
mourning, and all for no purpose!"

The brother of this provident lady is alive to this day, the husband of a very pretty wife,
and the father of a family, while she, poor body, has been consigned to the grave for more
than three years.

During her own dying illness, a little girl greatly disturbed her sick mother with the noise
she made. Her husband, as an inducement to keep the child quiet, said, "Mary, if you do not
quit that, I'll whip you; but if you keep still like a good girl, you shall go to ma's funeral."

An artist cousin of mine was invited, with many other members of the Royal Academy, to attend
the funeral of the celebrated Nollekens the sculptor. The party filled twelve mourning coaches,
and were furnished with silk gloves, scarfs, and hatbands, and a dinner was provided after
the funeral was over at one of the large hotels. "A merrier set than we were on that day,"
said my cousin, "I never saw. We all got jovial, and it was midnight before any of us reached
our respective homes. The whole affair vividly brought to my mind that description of the 'Gondola,'
given so graphically by Byron, that it

                          'Contain'd much fun,
  Like mourning coaches when the funeral's done.'"

Some years ago I witnessed the funeral of a young lady, the only child of very wealthy parents,
who resided in of Bedford-square. The heiress of their enviable riches was a very delicate,
fragile-looking girl, and on the day that she attained her majority her parents gave a large
dinner party, followed by a ball in the evening, to celebrate the event. It was during the
winter; the night was very cold, the crowded rooms overheated, the young lady thinly but magnificently
clad. She took a chill in leaving the close ballroom for the large, ill-warmed supper-room,
and three days after, the hope of these rich people lay insensible on her bier.

I heard from every one that called upon Mrs. L---, the relative and friend with whom I was
staying, of the magnificent funeral would be given to Miss C---. Ah, little heeded that pale
crushed flower of yesterday, the pomp that was to convey her from the hot-bed of luxury to
the cold, damp vault of St. Giles's melancholy looking church! I stood at Mrs. L---'s window,
which commanded a view of the whole square, to watch the procession pass up Russell-street
to the place of interment. The morning was intensely cold, and large snow-flakes fell lazily
and heavily to the earth. The poor dingy sparrows, with their feathers ruffled up, hopped mournfully
along the pavement in search of food; they,

  "In spite of all their feathers, were a-cold."

The mutes that attended the long line of mourning coaches stood motionless, leaning on their
long staffs wreathed with white, like so many figures that the frost-king had stiffened into
stone. The hearse, with its snowy plumes, drawn by six milk-white horses, might have served
for the regal car of his northern majesty, so ghost-like and chilly were its sepulchral trappings.
At length the coffin, covered with black velvet, and a pall lined with white silk and fringed
with silver, was borne from the house and deposited in the gloomy depths of the stately hearse.
The hired mourners, in their sable dresses and long white hatbands and scarfs, rode slowly
forward mounted on white horses, to attend this bride of death to her last resting place. The
first three carriages that followed contained the family physician and surgeon, a clergyman,
and the male servants of the house, in deep sables. The family carriage too was there, but
empty, and of a procession in which 145 private carriages made a conspicuous show, all but
those enumerated above were empty. Strangers drove strange horses to that vast funeral, and
hired servants were the only members of the family that conducted the last scion of that family
to the grave. Truly, it was the most dismal spectacle we ever witnessed, and we turned from
it sick at heart, and with eyes moist with tears not shed for the dead, for she had escaped
from this vexatious vanity, but from the heartless mockery of all this fictitious woe.

The expense of such a funeral probably involved many hundred pounds, which had been better
bestowed on charitable purposes.

Another evil arising out of this absurd custom, is the high price attached to black clothing,
on account of the necessity that compels people to wear it for so long a period after the death
of a near relation, making it a matter of still greater difficulty for the poorer class to
comply with the usages of society.

"But who cares about the poor, whether they go into mourning for their friends or no? it is
a matter of no consequence."

Ah, there it is. And this is not the least forcible argument we have to advance against this
useless custom. If it becomes a moral duty for the rich to put on black for the death of a
friend, it must be morally necessary for the poor to do the same. We see no difference in the
degrees of moral feeling; the soul of man is of no rank, but of equal value in our eyes, whether
belonging to rich or poor. But this usage is so general, and the neglect of it considered such
a disgrace, that it leaves a very wide door open for the entrance of false pride.

Poverty is an evil which most persons, however humble their stations may be, most carefully
endeavour to conceal. To avoid an exposure of their real circumstances, they will deprive themselves
of the common necessaries of life, and incur debts which they have no prospect of paying, rather
than allow their neighbours to suspect that they cannot afford a handsome funeral and good
mournings for any deceased member of their family. If such persons would but follow the dictates
of true wisdom, honesty, and truth, no dread of the opinion of others should tempt them to
do what they cannot afford. Their grief for the dead would not be less sincere if they followed
the body of the beloved in their ordinary costume to the grave; nor is the spectacle less imposing
divested of all the solemn foppery which attends the funeral of persons who move in respectable
society.

Some years ago, when it was the fashion in England (and may be it remains the fashion still)
to give black silk scarfs and hatbands at funerals, mean and covetous persons threw themselves
in the way of picking up these stray loaves and fishes. A lady, who lived in the same town
with me after I was married, boasted to me that her husband (who always contrived to be a necessary
attendant on such occasions) found her in all the black silk she required for articles of dress,
and that he had not purchased a pair of gloves for many years.

About two years before old King George the Third died, a report got about that he could not
survive many days. There was a general rush among all ranks to obtain mourning. Up went the
price of black goods; Norwich crapes and bombazines rose ten per cent, and those who were able
to secure a black garment at any price, to shew their loyalty, were deemed very fortunate.
And after all this fuss, and hurry, and confusion, the poor mad old king disappointed the speculators
in sables, and lived on in darkness and mental aberration for two whole years. The mourning
of some on that occasion was real, not imaginary. The sorrow with them was not for the kings'
death, but that he had not died. On these public occasions of grief, great is the stir and
bustle in economical families, who wish to show a decent concern for the death of the monarch,
but who do not exactly like to go to the expense of buying new clothes for such a short period
as a court mourning. All the old family stores are rummaged carefully over, and every stuff
gown, worn ribbon, or shabby shawl, that can take a black dye, is handed over to the vat; and
these second-hand black garments have a more mournful appearance than the glossy suits of the
gay and wealthy, for it is actually humiliating to wear such, as they are both unbecoming to
the young and old. Black, which is the most becoming and convenient colour for general wear,
especially to the old and middle-aged; would no longer be regarded with religious horror as
the type of mortality and decay, but would take its place on the same shelf with the gay tints
that form the motley groups in our handsome stores. Could influential people be found to expose
the folly and vanity of this practice, and refuse to comply with its demands, others would
soon be glad to follow their example, and, before many years, it would sink into contempt and
disuse.

If the Americans, the most practical people in the world, would but once take up the subject
and publicly lecture on its absurdity, this dismal shadow of a darker age would no longer obscure
our streets and scare our little ones. Men would wear their grief in their hearts and not around
their hats; and widows would be better known by their serious deportment than by their weeds.
I feel certain that every thinking person, who calmly investigates the subject, will be tempted
to exclaim with me, "Oh, that the good sense of mankind would unite in banishing it for ever
from the earth!"

The Song Of Faith.

  "House of clay!--frail house of clay!
     In the dust thou soon must lie;
   Spirit! spread thy wings--away,
     Strong in immortality;
       To worlds more bright
       Oh wing thy flight,
     To win the crown and robe of light.

  "Hopes of dust!--false hopes of dust!
     Smiling as the morning fair;
   Why do we confiding trust
     In trifles light as air?
       Like flowers that wave
       Above the grave,
   Ye cheer, without the power to save.

  "Joys of earth!--vain joys of earth!
     Sandy your foundations be;
   Mortals overrate your worth,
     Sought through life so eagerly.
       Too soon we know
       That tears must flow,--
   That bliss is still allied to woe!

  "Human love!--fond human love!
     We have worshipp'd at thy shrine;
   Envying not the saints above,
     While we deem'd thy power divine.
       But ah, thy light,
       So wildly bright,
     Is born of earth to set in night.

  "Love of heaven!--love of heaven!
     Let us pray for thine increase;
   Happiness by thee is given,
     Hopes and joys that never cease.
       With thee we'll soar
       Death's dark tide o'er,
     Where earth can stain the soul no more."

CHAPTER IX

Odd Characters

  "Dear merry reader, did you ever hear,
     Whilst travelling on the world's wide beaten road,
   The curious reasoning, and opinions queer,
     Of men, who never in their lives bestow'd
   One hour on study; whose existence seems
     A thing of course--a practical delusion--
   A day of frowning clouds and sunny gleams--
     Of pain and pleasure, mix'd in strange confusion;
   Who feel they move and breathe, they know not why--
   Are born to eat and drink, and sleep and die."
                                              S.M.

The shores of the Prince Edward District become more bold and beautiful as the steamer pursues
her course up the "Long Reach." Magnificent trees clothe these rugged banks to their very summits,
and cast dense shadows upon the waters that slumber at their feet. The slanting rays of the
evening sun stream through their thick foliage, and weave a network of gold around the corrugated
trunks of the huge oak and maple trees that tower far above our heads. The glorious waters
are dyed with a thousand changeful hues of crimson and saffron, and reflect from their unruffled
surface the gorgeous tints of a Canadian sunset. The pines, with their hearse-like plumes,
loom out darkly against the glowing evening sky, and frown austerely upon us, their gloomy
aspect affording a striking contrast to the sun-lighted leaves of the feathery birch and the
rock elm. It is a lonely hour, and one that nature seems to have set apart for prayer and praise;
a devotional spirit seems to breathe over the earth, the woods, and waters, softening and harmonising
the whole into one blessed picture of love and peace.

The boat has again crossed the bay, and stops to take in wood at "Roblin's wharf." We are now
beneath the shadow of the "Indian woods," a reserve belonging to the Mohawks in the township
of Tyendenaga, about twenty-four miles by water from Belleville. A broad belt of forest land
forms the background to a cleared slope, rising gradually from the water until it reaches a
considerable elevation above the shore. The frontage to the bay is filled up with neat farm
houses, and patches of buck-wheat and Indian corn, the only grain that remains unharvested
at this season of the year. We have a fine view of the stone church built by the Indians, which
stands on the top of the hill about a mile from the water. Queen Anne presented to this tribe
three large marble tablets engraved with the Ten Commandments, which, after following them
in all their ramblings for a century and a half, now grace the altar of this church, and are
regarded with great veneration by the Indian settlers, who seem to look upon them with a superstitious
awe. The church is built in the gothic style, and is one of the most picturesque village churches
that I have seen in Canada. The Indians contributed a great part of the funds for erecting
this building. I was never within the walls of the sacred edifice; but I have wandered round
the quiet peaceful burial-ground, and admired the lovely prospect it commands of the bay and
the opposite shores.

One side of the churchyard is skirted by a natural grove of forest trees, which separates it
from the parsonage, a neat white building that fronts the water, and stands back from it at
the head of a noble sweep of land covered with velvet turf, and resembling greatly a gentleman's
park at home, by the fine groups of stately forest trees scattered over it, and a semicircular
belt of the original forest, that, sloping from the house on either side, extends its wings
until it meets the blue waters of the bay, leaving between its green arms a broad space of
cleared land.

The first time my eyes ever rested on this beautiful spot it appeared to me a perfect paradise.
It was a warm, balmy, moonlight evening in June. The rich resinous odour of the woods filled
the air with delicious perfume; fire-flies were glancing like shooting stars among the dark
foliage that hung over the water, and the spirit of love and peace sat brooding over the luxurious
solitude, whose very silence was eloquent with praise of the great Maker. How I envied the
residents of the parsonage their lovely home! How disappointed I felt, when Mrs. G--- told
me that she felt it dull and lonely, that she was out of society, and that the Indians were
very troublesome neighbours! Now, I have no doubt that this was all very true, and that I should
have felt the same want that she did, after the bewitching novelty of the scene had become
familiar; but it sadly destroyed the romance and poetry of it to me at the time.

This part of the township of Tyendenaga belongs almost exclusively to the Mohawk Indians, who
have made a large settlement here, while the government has given them a good school for instructing
their children in the Indian and English languages; and they have a resident clergyman of the
Establishment always at hand, to minister to them the spiritual consolations of religion, and
impart to them the blessed truths of the gospel. The Rev. S. G--- was for some years the occupant
of the pretty parsonage-house, and was greatly beloved by his Indian congregation.

The native residents of these woods clear farms, and build and plant like their white neighbours.
They rear horses, cattle, and sheep, and sow a sufficient quantity of grain to secure them
from want. But there is a great lack of order and regularity in all their agricultural proceedings.
They do not make half as much out of their lands--which they suffer to be overgrown with thorns
and thistles--as their white neighbours; and their domestic arrangements within doors are never
marked by that appearance of comfort and cleanliness, which is to be seen in the dwellings
of the native Canadians and emigrants from Europe.

The red man is out of his element when he settles quietly down to a farm, and you perceive
it at a glance. He never appears to advantage as a resident among civilized men; and he seems
painfully conscious of his inferiority, and ignorance of the arts of life. He has lost his
identity, as it were, and when he attempts to imitate ihe customs and manners of the whites,
he is too apt to adopt their vices without acquiring their industry and perseverance, and sinks
into a sottish, degraded savage. The proud independence we admired so much in the man of the
woods, has disappeared with his truthfulness, honesty, and simple manners. His pure blood is
tainted with the dregs of a lower humanity, degenerated by the want and misery of over-populous
European cities. His light eyes, crisp hair, and whitey-brown complexion, too surely betray
his mixed origin; and we turn from the half educated, half-caste Indian, with feelings of aversion
and mistrust.

There is a Mohawk family who reside in this township of the name of Loft, who have gained some
celebrity in the colony by their clever representations of the manners and customs of their
tribe. They sing Indian songs, dance the war-dance, hold councils, and make grave speeches,
in the characters of Indian chiefs and hunters, in an artistic manner that would gain the applause
of a more fastidious audience.

The two young squaws, who were the principal performers in this travelling Indian opera, were
the most beautiful Indian women I ever beheld. There was no base alloy in their pure native
blood. They had the large, dark, humid eyes, the ebon locks tinged with purple, so peculiar
to their race, and which gives such a rich tint to the clear olive skin and brilliant white
teeth of the denizens of the Canadian wilderness.

Susannah Loft and her sister were the beau ideal of Indian women; and their graceful and symmetrical
figures were set off to great advantage by their picturesque and becoming costume, which in
their case was composed of the richest materials. Their acting and carriage were dignified
and queen-like, and their appearance singularly pleasing and interesting.

Susannah, the eldest and certainly the most graceful of these truly fascinating girls, was
unfortunately killed last summer by the collision of two steam-carriages, while travelling
professionally with her sister through the States. Those who had listened with charmed ears
to her sweet voice, and gazed with admiring eyes upon her personal charms, were greatly shocked
at her untimely death.

A little boy and girl belonging to the same talented family have been brought before the public,
in order to supply her place, but they have not been able to fill up the blank occasioned by
her loss.

The steamboat again leaves the north shore, and stands across from the stone mills, which are
in the Prince Edward district, and form one of the features of the remarkable scenery of what
is called the "high shore." This mountainous ridge, which descends perpendicularly to the water's
edge, is still in forest; and, without doubt, this is the most romantic portion of the bay,
whose waters are suddenly contracted to half their former dimensions, and glide on darkly and
silently between these steep wood-crowned heights.

There is a small lake upon the highest portion of this table-land, whose waters are led down
the steep bank, and made to work a saw-mill, which is certainly giving a very unromantic turn
to them. But here, as in the States, the beautiful and the ideal are instantly converted into
the real and the practical.

This "lake of the mountains" is a favourite place for picnics and pleasure trips from Northport
and Belleville. Here the Sabbath-school children come, once during the summer, to enjoy a ramble
in the woods, and spread their feast beneath the lordly oaks and maples that crown these heights.
And the teetotallers marshall their bands of converts, and hold their cold water festival,
beside the blue deep waters of this mysterious mountain-lake.

Strange stories are told of its unfathomable depth; of the quicksands that are found near it,
and of its being supplied from the far-off inland ocean of Lake Huron. But like the cove in
Tyendenaga, of which everybody in the neighbourhood has heard something, but which nobody has
seen, these accounts of the lake of the mountain rest only upon hearsay.

The last rays of the sun still lingered on wood and stream when we arrived at Picton, which
stands at the head of the "long reach." The bay here is not wider than a broad river. The banks
are very lofty, and enclose the water in an oblong form, round which that part of the town
which is near the shore is built.

Picton is a very beautiful place viewed from the deck of the steamer. Its situation is novel
and imposing, and the number of pretty cottages that crown the steep ridge that rises almost
perpendicularly from the water, peeping out from among fine orchards in full bearing, and trim
gardens, give it quite a rural appearance. The steamboat enters this fairy bay by a very narrow
passage; and, after delivering freight and passengers at the wharf, backs out by the way she
came in. There is no turning a large vessel round this long half-circle of deep blue water.
Few spots in Canada would afford a finer subject for the artist's pencil than this small inland
town, which is so seldom visited by strangers and tourists.

The progress to wealth and importance made by this place is strikingly behind that of Belleville,
which far exceeds it in size and population. Three years ago a very destructive fire consumed
some of the principal buildings in the town, which has not yet recovered from its effects.
Trade is not so brisk here as in Belleville, and the streets are dull and monotonous, when
compared with the stir and bustle of the latter, which, during the winter season, is crowded
with sleighs from the country. The Bay of Quinte during the winter forms an excellent road
to all the villages and towns on its shores. The people from the opposite side trade more with
the Belleville merchants than with those in their own district; and during the winter season,
when the bay is completely frozen from the mouth of the Trent to Kingston, loaded teams are
passing to and fro continually. It is the favourite afternoon drive of young and old, and when
the wind, sweeping over such a broad surface of ice, is not too cold, and you are well wrapped
up in furs and buffalo robes, a sleigh ride on the ice is very delightful. Not that I can ever
wholly divest myself of a vague, indistinct sense of danger, whilst rapidly gliding over this
frozen mirror. I would rather be out on the bay, in a gale of wind in a small boat, than overtaken
by a snow storm on its frozen highways. Still it is a pleasant sight of a bright, glowing,
winter day, when the landscape glitters like a world composed of crystals, to watch the handsome
sleighs, filled with well-dressed men and women, and drawn by spirited horses, dashing in all
directions over this brilliant field of dazzling white.

Night has fallen rapidly upon us since we left Picton in the distance. A darker shade is upon
the woods, the hills, the waters, and by the time we approach Fredericksburg it will be dark.
This too is a very pretty place on the north side of the bay; beautiful orchards and meadows
skirt the water, and fine bass-wood and willow-trees grow beside, or bend over the waves. The
green smooth meadows, out of which the black stumps rotted long ago, show noble groups of hiccory
and butter-nut, and sleek fat cows are reposing beneath them, or standing mid-leg in the small
creek that wanders through them to pour its fairy tribute into the broad bay.

We must leave the deck and retreat into the ladies' cabin, for the air from the water grows
chilly, and the sense of seeing can no longer be gratified by remaining where we are. But if
you open your eyes to see, and your ears to hear, all the strange sayings and doings of the
odd people you meet in a steamboat, you will never lack amusement.

The last time I went down to Kingston, there was a little girl in the cabin who rejoiced in
the possession of a very large American doll, made so nearly to resemble an infant, that at
a distance it was easy to mistake it for one. To render the deception more striking, you could
make it cry like a child by pressing your hand upon its body. A thin, long-laced farmer's wife
came on board, at the wharf we have just quitted, and it was amusing to watch her alternately
gazing at the little girl and her doll.

"Is that your baby, Cissy?"

"No; it's my doll."

"Mi! what a strange doll! Isn't that something oncommon? I took it for a real child. Look at
its bare feet and hands, and bald head. Well, I don't think it's 'zactly right to make a piece
of wood look so like a human critter."

The child good-naturedly put the doll into the woman's hands, who, happening to take it rather
roughly, the wooden baby gave a loud squall; the woman's face expressed the utmost horror,
and she dropped it on the floor as if it had been a hot coal.

"Gracious, goodness me, the thing's alive!"

The little girl laughed heartily, and, taking up the discarded doll, explained to the woman
the simple method employed to produce the sound.

"Well, it do sound quite nataral," said her astonished companion. "What will they find out
next? It beats the railroad and the telegraph holler."

"Ah, but I saw a big doll that could speak when I was with mamma in New York," said the child,
with glistening eyes.

"A doll that could speak? You don't say. Oh, do tell!"

While the young lady described the automaton doll, it was amusing to watch the expressions
of surprise, wonder, and curiosity, that flitted over the woman's brig cadaverous face. She
would have made a good study for a painter.

A young relative of mine went down in the steamboat, to be present at the Provincial Agricultural
Show that was held that year in the town of Buckville, on the St. Lawrence. It was the latter
end of September; the weather was wet and stormy, and the boat loaded to the water's edge with
cattle and passengers. The promenade decks were filled up with pigs, sheep and oxen. Cows were
looking sleepily in at the open doors of the ladies' cabin, and bulls were fastened on the
upper deck. Such a motley group of bipeds and quadrupeds were never before huddled into such
a narrow space; and, amidst all this din and confusion, a Scotch piper was playing lustily
on the bagpipes, greatly to the edification, I've no doubt, of himself and the crowd of animal
life around him.

The night came on very dark and stormy, and many of the women suffered as much from the pitching
of the boat as if they had been at sea. The ladies' cabin was crowded to overflowing; every
sofa, bed, and chair was occupied; and my young friend, who did not feel any inconvenience
from the storm, was greatly entertained by the dialogues carried on across the cabin by the
women, who were reposing in their berths, and lamenting over the rough weather and their own
sufferings in consequence. They were mostly the wives of farmers and respectable mechanics,
and the language they used was neither very choice nor grammatical.

"I say, Mrs. C---, how be you?"

"I feel bad, any how," with a smothered groan.

"Have you been sick?"

"Not yet; but feel as if I was going to."

"How's your head coming on, Mrs. N---?"

"It's just splitting, I thank you."

"Oh, how awful the boat do pitch!" cries a third.

"If she should sink, I'm afeard we shall all go to the bottom."

"And think of all the poor sheep and cattle!"

"Well, of course, they'd have to go too."

"Oh, mi! I'll get up, and be ready for a start, in case of the worst," cried a young girl.

"Mrs. C---, do give me something good out of your basket, to keep up my spirits."

"Well, I will. Come over here, and you and I will have some talk. My basket's at the foot of
my berth. You'll find in it a small bottle of brandy and some crulls."

So up got several of the sick ladies, and kept up their spirits by eating cakes, chewing gum,
and drinking cold brandy punch.

"Did Mrs. H--- lose much in the fire last night?" said one.

"Oh, dear, yes; she lost all her clothes, and three large jars of preserves she made about
a week ago, and sarce in accordance!" [A common Yankee phrase, often used instead of the word
proportion.]

There was an honest Yorkshire farmer and his wife on board, and when the morning at length
broke through pouring rain and driving mist, and the port to which they were bound loomed through
the haze, the women were very anxious to know if their husbands, who slept in the gentlemen's
cabin, were awake."

"They arn't stirring yet," said Mrs. G---, "for I hear Isaac (meaning her husband) breezing
below"--a most expressive term for very hard snoring.

The same Isaac, when he came up to the ladies' cabin to take his wife on shore, complained,
in his broad Yorkshire dialect, that he had been kept awake all night by a jovial gentleman
who had been his fellow-traveller in the cabin.

"We had terrible noisy chap in t'cabin. They called him Mr. D---, and said he 'twas t'mayor
of Belleville; but I thought they were a-fooning. He wouldn't sleep himself, nor let t'others
sleep. He gat piper, an' put him top o' table, and kept him playing all t'night."

One would think that friend Isaac had been haunted by the vision of the piper in his dreams;
for, certes, the jovial buzzing of the pipes had not been able to drown the deep drone of his
own nasal organ.

A gentleman who was travelling in company with Sir A--- told me an anecdote of him, and how
he treated an impertinent fellow on board one of the lake boats, that greatly amused me.

The state cabins in these large steamers open into the great saloon; and as they are often
occupied by married people, each berth contains two beds, one placed above the other. Now it
often happens, when the boat is greatly crowded, that two passengers of the same sex are forced
to occupy the same sleeping room. This was Sir A---'s case, and he was obliged, though very
reluctantly, to share his sleeping apartment with a well-dressed American, but evidently a
man of low standing, from the familiarity of his manners and the bad grammar he used.

In the morning, it was necessary for one gentleman to rise before the other, as the space in
front of their berths was too narrow to allow of more than one performing his ablutions at a time.

Our Yankee made a fair start, and had nearly completed his toilet, when he suddenly spied a
tooth-brush and a box of tooth-powder in the dressing-case his companion had left open on the
washstand. Upon these he pounced, and having made a liberal use of them, flung them back into
the case, and sat down upon the only chair the room contained, in order to gratify his curiosity
by watching how his sleeping partner went through the same process.

Sir A---, greatly annoyed by the fellow's assurance, got out of bed; and placing the washhand
basin on the floor, put his feet into the water, and commenced scrubbing his toe-nails with
the desecrated tooth-brush. Jonathan watched his movements for a few seconds in silent horror;
at length, unable to contain himself, he exclaimed.

"Well, stranger! that's the dirtiest use I ever see a toothbrush put to, any how."

"I saw it put to a dirtier, just now," said Sir A--- very coolly. "I always use that brush
for cleaning my toes."

The Yankee turned very green, and fled to the deck, but his nausea was not sea-sickness.

The village of Nappanee, on the north side of the Bay, is situated on a very pretty river that
bears the same name,--Nappanee, in the Mohawk language, signifying flour. The village is a
mile back from the bay, and is not much seen from the water. There are a great many mills here,
both grist and saw mills, from which circumstance it most likely derives its name.

Amherst Island, which is some miles in extent, stands between Ontario and the Bay of Quinte,
its upper and lower extremity forming the two straits that are called the Upper and Lower Gap,
and the least breeze, which is not perceptible in the other portions of the bay, is felt here.
Passing through these gaps on a stormy day creates as great a nausea as a short chopping sea
on the Atlantic, and I have seen both men and women retreat to their berths to avoid disagreeable
consequences. Amherst Island is several miles in extent, and there are many good farms in high
cultivation upon it, while its proximity on all sides to the water affords excellent sport
to the angler and gunner, as wild ducks abound in this vicinity.

Just after you pass the island and enter the lower gap, there are three very small islands
in a direct line with each other, that are known as the three brothers. A hermit has taken
up his abode on the centre one, and built a very Robinson Crusoe looking hut near the water,
composed of round logs and large stones cemented together with clay. He gets his living by
fishing and fowling, and you see his well-worn, weather-beaten boat, drawn up in a little cove
near his odd dwelling. I was very curious to obtain some particulars of the private history
of this eccentric individual, but beyond what I have just related, my informants could tell
me nothing, or why he had chosen this solitary abode in such an exposed situation, and so far
apart from all the comforts of social life.

The town of Bath is the last place of any note on this portion of the Bay, until you arrive
at Kingston.

A Morning Song.

  "The young wheat is springing
     All tender and green,
   And the blackbird is singing
     The branches between;
   The leaves of the hawthorn
     Have burst from their prison,
   And the bright eyes of morn
     On the earth have arisen.

  "While sluggards are sleeping,
     Oh hasten with me;
   While the night mists are weeping
     Soft showers on each tree,
   And nature is glowing
     Beneath the warm beam,
   The young day is throwing
     O'er mountain and stream.

  "And the shy colt is bounding
     Across the wide mead,
   And his wild hoofs resounding,
     Increases his speed;
   Now starting and crossing
     At each shadow he sees,
   Now wantonly tossing
     His mane in the breeze.

  "The sky-lark is shaking
     The dew from her wing,
   And the clover forsaking,
     Soars upwards to sing,
   In rapture outpouring
     Her anthem of love,
   Where angels adoring
     Waft praises above.

  "Shake dull sleep from your pillow,
     Young dreamer arise,
   On the leaves of the willow
     The dew-drop still lies,
   And the mavis is trilling
     His song from the brake,
   And with melody filling
     The wild woods--awake!"

CHAPTER X

Grace Marks

  "I dare not think--I cannot pray;
     To name the name of God were sin:
   No grief of mine can wash away
     The consciousness of guilt within.
   The stain of blood is on my hand,
     The curse of Cain is on my brow;--
   I see that ghastly phantom stand
     Between me and the sunshine now!
   That mocking face still haunts my dreams,
     That blood-shot eye that never sleeps,
   In night and darkness--oh, it gleams,
     Like red-hot steel--but never weeps!
   And still it bends its burning gaze
     On mine, till drops of terror start
   From my hot brow, and hell's fierce blaze
     Is kindled in my brain and heart.
   I long for death, yet dare not die,
     Though life is now a weary curse;
   But oh, that dread eternity
     May bring a punishment far worse!"

So much has been written about the city of Kingston, so lately the seat of government, and
so remarkable for its fortifications, and the importance it ever must be to the colony as a
military depot and place of defence, that it is not my intention to enter into a minute description
of it here. I was greatly pleased, as I think every stranger must be, with its general aspect,
particularly as seen from the water, in which respect it has a great advantage over Toronto.
The number of vessels lying at the different wharfs, and the constant arrival of noble steamers
both from the United States and the Upper and Lower Province, give it a very business-like
appearance. Yet, upon landing, you are struck with the want of stir and bustle in the principal
thoroughfares, when contrasted with the size and magnitude of the streets.

The removal of the seat of government has checked the growth of Kingston for a while; but you
feel, while examining its commanding position, that it must always be the key of the Upper
Province, the great rallying point in case of war or danger. The market house is a very fine
building, and the wants of the city could be supplied within its area, were it three times
the size that it is at present. The market is decidedly one of the chief attractions of the place.

The streets are wide and well paved, and there are a great many fine trees in and about Kingston,
which give to it the appearance of a European town. The houses are chiefly of brick and stone
along the public thoroughfares, and there are many neat private dwellings inclosed in trim
well-kept gardens. The road leading to the Provincial Penitentiary runs parallel with the water,
and forms a delightful drive.

It is about three years ago that I paid a visit with my husband to the Penitentiary, and went
over every part of it. I must own that I felt a greater curiosity to see the convicts than
the prison which contained them, and my wishes were completely gratified, as my husband was
detained for several hours on business, and I had a long interval of leisure to examine the
workshops, where the convicts were employed at their different trades, their sleeping cells,
chapel, and places of punishment. The silence system is maintained here, no conversation being
allowed between the prisoners. I was surprised at the neatness, cleanliness, order, and regularity
of all the arrangements in the vast building, and still more astonished that forty or fifty
strong active looking men, unfettered, with the free use of their limbs, could be controlled
by one person, who sat on a tall chair as overseer of each ward. In several instances, particularly
in the tailoring and shoemaking department, the overseers were small delicate-looking men;
but such is the force of habit, and the want of moral courage which generally accompanies guilt,
that a word or a look from these men was sufficient to keep them at work.

The dress of the male convicts was warm and comfortable, though certainly not very elegant,
consisting (for it was late in the fall) of a thick woollen jacket, one side of it being brown,
the other yellow, with trowsers to correspond, a shirt of coarse factory cotton, but very clean,
and good stout shoes, and warm knitted woollen socks. The letters P.P. for "Provincial Penitentiary,"
are sewed in coloured cloth upon the dark side of the jacket. Their hair is cut very short
to the head, and they wear a cloth cap of the same colours that compose their dress.

The cells are narrow, just wide enough to contain a small bed, a stool, and a wash-bowl, and
the prisoners are divided from each other by thick stone walls. They are locked in every night
at six o'clock, and their cell is so constructed, that one of the keepers can always look in
upon the convict without his being aware of the scrutiny. The bedding was scrupulously clean,
and I saw a plain Bible in each cell.

There is a sort of machine resembling a stone coffin, in which mutinous convicts are confined
for a given time. They stand in an upright position; and as there are air holes for breathing,
the look and name of the thing is more dreadful than the punishment, which cannot be the least
painful. I asked the gentleman who showed us over the building, what country sent the most
prisoners to the Penitentiary? He smiled, and told me "guess." I did so, but was wrong.

"No," said he; "we have more French Canadians and men of colour. Then Irish, English, and run-a-way
loafers from the States. Of the Scotch we have very few; but they are very bad--the most ungovernable,
sullen, and disobedient. When a Scotchman is bad enough to be brought here, he is like Jeremiah's
bad figs--only fit for the gallows."

Mr. Moodie's bailiffs had taken down a young fellow, about twenty years of age, who had been
convicted at the assizes for stealing curious coins from a person who had brought them out
to this country as old family relics. The evidence was more circumstantial than positive, and
many persons believed the lad innocent.

He had kept up his spirits bravely on the voyage, and was treated with great kindness by the
men who had him in custody; but when once within the massy walls of the huge building, his
courage seemed to forsake him all at once. We passed him as he sat on the bench, while the
barber was cutting his hair and shaving off his whiskers. His handsome suit had been removed--he
was in the party-coloured dress before described. There was in his face an expression of great
anguish, and tears were rolling in quick succession down his cheeks. Poor fellow! I should
hardly have known him again, so completely was he humbled by his present position.

Mr. M---y told me that they had some men in the Penitentiary who had returned three different
times to it, and had grown so attached to their prison that they preferred being there, well
clothed and well fed, to gaining a precarious living elsewhere.

Executions in Canada are so rare, even for murder, that many atrocious criminals are found
within these walls--men and women--who could not possibly have escaped the gallows in England.

At twelve o'clock I followed Mr. M--- to the great hall, to see the prisoners dine. The meal
consisted of excellent soups, with a portion of the meat which had been boiled in it, potatoes,
and brown bread, all very clean and good of their kind. I took a plate of the soup and a piece
of the bread, and enjoyed both greatly.

I could not help thinking, while watching these men in their comfortable dresses, taking their
wholesome, well-cooked meal, how much better they were fed and lodged than thousands of honest
industrious men, who had to maintain large families upon a crust of bread, in the great manufacturing
cities at home.

Most of these men had very bad countenances, and I never felt so much convinced of the truth
of phrenology as while looking at their heads. The extraordinary formation, or rather mal-formation,
of some of them, led me to think that their possessors were hardly accountable for their actions.
One man in particular, who had committed a very atrocious murder, and was confined for life,
had a most singular head, such as one, indeed, as I never before saw on a human body. It was
immensely large at the base, and appeared perfectly round, while at the crown it rose to a
point like a sugar-loaf. He was of a dull, drab-coloured complexion, with large prominent eyes
of a pale green colour; his expression, the most repulsively cruel and sinister. The eye involuntarily
singled him out among all his comrades, as something too terrible to escape observation.

Among such a number of men, 448, who were there present, I was surprised at seeing so few with
red or fair hair. I noticed this to my companion. He had never observed it before, but said
it was strange. The convicts were mostly of a dull grey complexion, large eyed, stolid looking
men, or with very black hair, and heavy black brows.

I could only account for this circumstance from the fact, that though fair-haired people are
often violently passionate and easily excited, their anger is sudden and quick, never premeditated,
but generally the work of the moment. Like straw on a fire, it kindles into a fierce blaze,
but it is over in an instant. They seldom retain it, or bear malice. Not so the dull, putty-coloured,
sluggish man. He is slow to act, but he broods over a supposed affront or injury, and never
forgets it. He plans the moment of retaliation, and stabs his enemy when least prepared. There
were many stolid, heavy-looking men in that prison--many with black, jealous, fiery-looking
eyes, in whose gloomy depths suspicion and revenge seemed to lurk. Even to look at these men
as they passed on, seemed to arouse their vindictive feelings, and they scowled disdainfully
upon us as they walked on to their respective places.

There was one man among these dark, fierce-looking criminals, who, from his proud carriage
and bearing, particularly arrested my attention. I pointed him out to Mr. ---. "That man has
the appearance of an educated person. He looks as if he had been a gentleman."

"You are right," was his reply. "He was a gentleman, the son of a district judge, and brought
up to the law. A clever man too; but these walls do not contain a worse in every respect. He
was put in here for arson, and an attempt to murder. Many a poor man has been hung with half
his guilt."

"There are two men near him," I said, "who have not the appearance of criminals at all. What
have they done?"

"They are not felons, but two soldiers put in here for a week for disorderly conduct."

"What a shame," I cried, "to degrade them in this manner! What good can it do?"

"Oh," said he, laughing; "it will make them desert to the States the moment they get out."

"And those two little boys; what are they here for?"

"For murder!" whispered he.

I almost sprang from my seat; it appeared too dreadful to be true.

"Yes," he continued. "That child to the right is in for shooting his sister. The other, to
the left, for killing a boy of his own age with a hoe, and burying him under the roots of a
fallen tree. Both of these boys come from the neighbourhood of Peterboro'. Your district, by
the bye, sends fewer convicts to the Penitentiary than any part of the Upper Province."

It was with great pleasure I heard him say this. During a residence of thirteen years at Belleville,
there has not been one execution. The county of Hastings is still unstained with the blood
of a criminal. There is so little robbery committed in this part of the country, that the thought
of thieves or housebreakers never for a moment disturbs our rest. This is not the case in Hamilton
and Toronto, where daring acts of housebreaking are of frequent occurrence.

The constant influx of runaway slaves from the States has added greatly to the criminal lists
on the frontier. The addition of these people to our population is not much to be coveted.
The slave, from his previous habits and education, does not always make a good citizen. During
the last assizes at Cobourg, a black man and his wife were condemned to be hung for a most
horrible murder, and their son, a young man of twenty years of age, offered the sheriff to
hang his own father and mother for a new suit of clothes. Those who laud the black man, and
place him above the white, let them produce in the whole annals of human crime a more atrocious
one than this! Yet it was not a hanging matter.

I heard a gentleman exclaim with honest indignation, when this anecdote was told in his hearing--"If
a man were wanting to hang that monster, I would do it myself."

But leaving the male convicts, I must now introduce my reader to the female inmates of this
house of woe and crime. At the time of my visit, there were only forty women in the Penitentiary.
This speaks much for the superior moral training of the feebler sex. My chief object in visiting
their department was to look at the celebrated murderess, Grace Marks, of whom I had heard
a great deal, not only from the public papers, but from the gentleman who defended her upon
her trial, and whose able pleading saved her from the gallows, on which her wretched accomplice
closed his guilty career.

As many of my English readers may never have heard even the name of this remarkable criminal,
it may not be uninteresting to them to give a brief sketch of the events which placed her here.

About eight or nine years ago--I write from memory, and am not very certain as to dates--a
young Irish emigrant girl was hired into the service of Captain Kinnaird, an officer on half-pay,
who had purchased a farm about thirty miles in the rear of Toronto; but the name of the township,
and the county in which it was situated, I have forgotten; but this is of little consequence
to my narrative. Both circumstances could be easily ascertained by the curious. The captain
had been living for some time on very intimate terms with his housekeeper, a handsome young
woman of the name of Hannah Montgomery, who had been his servant of all work. Her familiarity
with her master, who, it appears, was a very fine looking, gentlemanly person, had rendered
her very impatient of her former menial employments, and she soon became virtually the mistress
of the house. Grace Marks was hired to wait upon her, and perform all the coarse drudgery that
Hannah considered herself too fine a lady to do.

While Hannah occupied the parlour with her master, and sat at his table, her insolent airs
of superiority aroused the jealousy and envy of Grace Marks, and the man-servant, MacDermot;
who considered themselves quite superior to their self-elected mistress. MacDermot was the
son of respectable parents; but from being a wild, ungovernable boy, he became a bad, vicious
man, and early abandoned the parental roof to enlist for a soldier. He was soon tired of his
new profession, and, deserting from his regiment, escaped detection, and emigrated to Canada.
Having no means of his own, he was glad to engage with Captain Kinnaird as his servant, to
whom his character and previous habits were unknown.

These circumstances, together with what follows, were drawn from his confession, made to Mr.
Mac--ie, who had conducted his defence, the night previous to his execution. Perhaps it will
be better to make him the narrator of his own story.

"Grace Marks was hired by Captain Kinnaird to wait upon his housekeeper, a few days after I
entered his service. She was a pretty girl, and very smart about her work, but of a silent,
sullen temper. It was very difficult to know when she was pleased. Her age did not exceed seventeen
years. After the work of the day was over, she and I generally were left to ourselves in the
kitchen, Hannah being entirely taken up with her master. Grace was very jealous of the difference
made between her and the house-keeper, whom she hated, and to whom she was often very insolent
and saucy. Her whole conversation to me was on this subject. 'What is she better than us?'
she would say, 'that she is to be treated like a lady, and eat and drink of the best. She is
not better born than we are, or better educated. I will not stay here to be domineered over
by her. Either she or I must soon leave this.' Every little complaint Hannah made of me, was
repeated to me with cruel exaggerations, till my dander was up, and I began to regard the unfortunate
woman as our common enemy. The good looks of Grace had interested me in her cause; and though
there was something about the girl that I could not exactly like, I had been a very lawless,
dissipated fellow, and if a woman was young and pretty, I cared very little about her character.
Grace was sullen and proud, and not very easily won over to my purpose; but in order to win
her liking, if possible, I gave a ready ear to all her discontented repinings.

"One day Captain Kinnaird went to Toronto, to draw his half-year's pay, and left word with
Hannah that he would be back by noon the next day. She had made some complaint against us to
him, and he had promised to pay us off on his return. This had come to the ears of Grace, and
her hatred to the housekeeper was increased to a tenfold degree. I take heaven to witness,
that I had no designs against the life of the unfortunate woman when my master left the house.

"Hannah went out in the afternoon, to visit some friends she had in the neighbourhood, and
left Grace and I alone together. This was an opportunity too good to be lost, and, instead
of minding our work, we got recapitulating our fancied wrongs over some of the captain's whisky.
I urged my suit to Grace; but she would not think of anything, or listen to anything, but the
insults and injuries she had received from Hannah, and her burning thirst for revenge. 'Dear
me,' said I, half in jest, 'if you hate her so much as all that, say but the word, and I will
soon rid you of her for ever.'

"I had not the least idea that she would take me at my word. Her eyes flashed with a horrible
light. 'You dare not do it!' she replied, with a scornful toss of her head.

"'Dare not do what?'

"'Kill that woman for me!' she whispered.

"'You don't know what I dare, or what I dar'n't do!' said I, drawing a little back from her.
'If you will promise to run off with me afterwards, I will see what I can do with her.'

"'I'll do anything you like; but you must first kill her.'

"'You are not in earnest, Grace?'

"'I mean what I say!'

"'How shall we be able to accomplish it? She is away now, and she may not return before her
master comes back.'

"'Never doubt her. She will be back to see after the house, and that we are in no mischief.'

"'She sleeps with you?'

"'Not always. She will to-night.'

"'I will wait till you are asleep, and then I will kill her with a blow of the axe on the head.
It will be over in a minute. Which side of the bed does she lie on?'

"'She always sleeps on the side nearest the wall and she bolts the door the last thing before
she puts out the light. But I will manage both these difficulties for you. I will pretend to
have the toothache very bad, and will ask to sleep next the wall to-night. She is kind to the
sick, and will not refuse me; and after she is asleep, I will steal out at the foot of the
bed, and unbolt the door. If you are true to your promise, you need not fear that I shall neglect
mine.'

"I looked at her with astonishment. 'Good God!' thought I, 'can this be a woman? A pretty,
soft-looking woman too--and a mere girl! What a heart she must have!' I felt equally tempted
to tell her she was a devil, and that I would have nothing to do with such a horrible piece
of business; but she looked so handsome, that somehow or another I yielded to the temptation,
though it was not without a struggle; for conscience loudly warned me not to injure one who
had never injured me.

"Hannah came home to supper, and she was unusually agreeable, and took her tea with us in the
kitchen, and laughed and chatted as merrily as possible. And Grace, in order to hide the wicked
thoughts working in her mind, was very pleasant too, and they went laughing to bed, as if they
were the best friends in the world.

"I sat by the kitchen fire after they were gone, with the axe between my knees, trying to harden
my heart to commit the murder; but for a long time I could not bring myself to do it. I thought
over all my past life. I had been a bad, disobedient son--a dishonest, wicked man; but I had
never shed blood. I had often felt sorry for the error of my ways, and had even vowed amendment,
and prayed God to forgive me, and make a better man of me for the time to come. And now, here
I was, at the instigation of a young girl, contemplating the death of a fellow-creature, with
whom I had been laughing and talking on apparently friendly terms a few minutes ago. Oh, it
was dreadful, too dreadful to be true! and then I prayed God to remove the temptation from
me, and to convince me of my sin. 'Ah, but,' whispered the devil, 'Grace Marks will laugh at
you. She will twit you with your want of resolution, and say that she is the better man of
the two.'

"I sprang up, and hastened at their door, which opened into the kitchen. All was still. I tried
the door;--for the damnation of my soul, it was open. I had no need of a candle, the moon was
at full; there was no curtain to their window, and it shone directly upon the bed, and I could
see their features as plainly as by the light of day. Grace was either sleeping, or pretending
to sleep--I think the latter, for there was a sort of fiendish smile upon her lips. The housekeeper
had yielded to her request, and was lying with her head out over the bed-clothes, in the best
possible manner for receiving a death-blow upon her temples. She had a sad, troubled look upon
her handsome face; and once she moved her hand, and said 'Oh dear!' I wondered whether she
was dreaming of any danger to herself and the man she loved. I raised the axe to give the death-blow,
but my arm seemed held back by an invisible hand. It was the hand of God. I turned away from
the bed, and left the room; I could not do it. I sat down by the embers of the fire, and cursed
my own folly. I made a second attempt--a third--and fourth; yes, even to a ninth--and my purpose
was each time defeated. God seemed to fight for the poor creature; and the last time I left
the room I swore, with a great oath, that if she did not die till I killed her, she might live
on till the day of judgment. I threw the axe on to the wood heap in the shed, and went to bed,
and soon fell fast asleep.

"In the morning, I was coming into the kitchen to light the fire, and met Grace Marks with
the pails in her hand, going out to milk the cows. As she passed me, she gave me a poke with
the pail in the ribs, and whispered with a sneer, 'Arn't you a coward!'

"As she uttered those words, the devil, against whom I had fought all night, entered into my
heart, and transformed me into a demon. All feelings of remorse and mercy forsook me from that
instant, and darker and deeper plans of murder and theft flashed through my brain. 'Go and
milk the cows,' said I with a bitter laugh, 'and you shall soon see whether I am the coward
you take me for.' She went out to milk, and I went in to murder the unsuspicious housekeeper.

"I found her at the sink in the kitchen, washing her face in a tin basin. I had the fatal axe
in my hand, and without pausing for an instant to change my mind--for had I stopped to think,
she would have been living to this day I struck her a heavy blow on the back of the head with
my axe. She fell to the ground at my feet without uttering a word; and, opening the trap-door
that led from the kitchen into a cellar where we kept potatoes and other stores, I hurled her
down, closed the door, and wiped away the perspiration that was streaming down my face. I then
looked at the axe and laughed. 'Yes; I have tasted blood now, and this murder will not be the
last. Grace Marks, you have raised the devil--take care of yourself now!'

"She came in with her pails, looking as innocent and demure as the milk they contained. She
turned pale when her eye met mine. I have no doubt but that I Iooked the fiend her taunt had
made me.

"'Where's Hannah?' she asked, in a faint voice.

"'Dead,' said I. 'What! are you turned coward now?'

"'Macdermot, you look dreadful. I am afraid of you, not of her.'

"'Aha, my girl! you should have thought of that before. The hound that laps blood once will
lap again. You have taught me how to kill, and I don't care who, or how many I kill now. When
Kinnaird comes home I will put a ball through his brain, and send him to keep company below
with the housekeeper.'

"She put down the pails,--she sprang towards me, and, clinging to my arm, exclaimed in frantic
tones--

"'You won't kill him?'

"'By ---, I will! why should he escape more than Hannah? And hark you, girl, if you dare to
breathe a word to any one of my intention, or tell to any one, by word or sign, what I have
done, I'll kill you!'

"She trembled like a leaf. Yes, that young demon trembled. 'Don't kill me,' she whined, 'don't
kill me, Macdermot! I swear that I will not betray you; and oh, don't kill him!'

"'And why the devil do you want me to spare him?'

"'He is so handsome!'

"'Pshaw!'

"'So good-natured!'

"'Especially to you. Come, Grace; no nonsense. If I had thought that you were jealous of your
master and Hannah, I would have been the last man on earth to have killed her. You belong to
me now; and though I believe that the devil has given me a bad bargain in you, yet, such as
you are, I will stand by you. And now, strike a light and follow me into the cellar. You must
help me to put Hannah out of sight.'

"She never shed a tear, but she looked dogged and sullen, and did as I bid her.

"That cellar presented a dreadful spectacle. I can hardly bear to recall it now; but then,
when my hands were still red with her blood, it was doubly terrible. Hannah Montgomery was
not dead, as I had thought; the blow had only stunned her. She had partially recovered her
senses, and was kneeling on one knee as we descended the ladder with the light. I don't know
if she heard us, for she must have been blinded with the blood that was flowing down her face;
but she certainly heard us, and raised her clasped hands, as if to implore mercy.

"I turned to Grace. The expression of her livid face was even more dreadful than that of the
unfortunate woman. She uttered no cry, but she put her hand to her head, and said,--

"'God has damned me for this.'

"'Then you have nothing more to fear,' says I. 'Give me that handkerchief off your neck.' She
gave it without a word. I threw myself upon the body of the housekeeper,--and planting my knee
on her breast, I tied the handkerchief round her throat in a single tie, giving Grace one end
to hold, while I drew the other tight enough to finish my terrible work. Her eyes literally
started from her head, she gave one groan, and all was over. I then cut the body in four pieces,
and turned a large washtub over them.

"'Now, Grace, you may come up and get my breakfast.'

"Yes, Mr. M---. You will not perhaps believe me, yet I assure you that we went upstairs and
ate a good breakfast; and I laughed with Grace at the consternation the captain would be in
when he found that Hannah was absent.

"During the morning a pedlar called, who travelled the country with second-hand articles of
clothing, taking farm produce in exchange for his wares. I bought of him two good linen-breasted
shirts, which had been stolen from some gentleman by his housekeeper. While I was chatting
with the pedlar, I remarked that Grace had left the house, and I saw her through the kitchen-window
talking to a young lad by the well, who often came across to borrow an old gun from my master
to shoot ducks. I called to her to come in, which she appeared to me to do very reluctantly.
I felt that I was in her power, and I was horribly afraid of her betraying me in order to save
her own and the captain's life. I now hated her from my very soul, and could have killed her
without the least pity or remorse.

"'What do you want, Macdermot!' she said sullenly.

"'I want you. I dare not trust you out of my sight. I know what you are,--you are plotting
mischief against me; but if you betray me I will be revenged; if I have to follow you to--for
that purpose.'

"'Why do you doubt my word, Macdermot? Do you think I want to hang myself?'

"'No, not yourself, but me. You are too bad to be trusted. What were you saying just now to
that boy?'

"'I told him that the captain was not at home, and I dared not lend him the gun.'

"'You were right. The gun will be wanted at home.'.

"She shuddered and turned away. It seems that she had had enough of blood, and shewed some
feeling at last. I kept my eye upon her, and would not suffer her for a moment out of my sight.

"At noon the captain drove into the yard, and I went out to take the horse. Before he had time
to alight, he asked for Hannah. I told him that she was out, that she went off the day before,
and had not returned, but that we expected her in every minute.

"He was very much annoyed, and said that she had no business to leave the house during his
absence,--that he would give her a good rating when she came home.

"Grace asked if she should get his breakfast?

"He said, 'He wanted none. He would wait till Hannah came back, and then he would take a cup
of coffee.'

"He then went into the parlour; and throwing himself down upon the sofa, commenced reading
a magazine he had brought with him from Toronto.

"'I thought he would miss the young lady,' said Grace. 'He has no idea how close she is to
him at this moment. I wonder why I could not make him as good a cup of coffee as Hannah. I
have often made it for him when he did not know it. But what is sweet from her hand, would
be poison from mine. But I have had my revenge!'

"Dinner time came, and out came the captain to the kitchen, book in hand.

"'Isn't Hannah back yet?'

"'No,--Sir.'

"'It's strange. Which way did she go?'

"'She did not tell us where she was going; but said that, as you were out, it would be a good
opportunity of visiting an old friend.'

"'When did she say she would be back?'

"'We expected her last night,' said Grace.

"'Something must have happened to the girl, Macdermot,' turning to me. 'Put the saddle on my
riding horse. I will go among the neighbours, and inquire if they have seen her.'

"Grace exchanged glances with me.

"'Will you not stay till after dinner, Sir?'

"'I don't care,' he cried impatiently, 'a --- for dinner. I feel too uneasy about the girl
to eat. Macdermot, be quick and saddle Charley; and you, Grace, come and tell me when he is
at the door.'

"He went back into the parlour, and put on his riding-coat; and I went into the harness-house,
not to obey his orders, but to plan his destruction.

"I perceived that it was more difficult to conceal a murder than I had imagined; that the inquiries
he was about to make would arouse suspicion among the neighbours, and finally lead to a discovery.
The only way to prevent this was to murder him, take what money he had brought with him from
Toronto, and be off with Grace to the States. Whatever repugnance I might have felt at the
commission of this fresh crime, was drowned in the selfish necessity of self-preservation.
My plans were soon matured, and I hastened to put them in a proper train.

"I first loaded the old duck gun with ball, and, putting it behind the door of the harness-house,
I went into the parlour. I found the captain lyinig on the sofa reading, his hat and gloves
beside him on the table. He started up as I entered.

"'Is the horse ready?'

"'Not yet, Sir. Some person has been in during the night, and cut your new English saddle almost
to pieces. I wish you would step out and look at it. I cannot put it on Charley in its present
state.'

"'Don't bother me, he cried angrily; 'it is in your charge,--you are answerable for that. Who
the devil would think it worth their while to break into the harness house to cut a saddle,
when they could have carried it off entirely? Let me have none of your tricks, Sir! You must
have done it yourself!'

"'That is not very likely, Captain Kinnaird. At any rate, it would be a satisfaction to me
if you would come and look at it.'

"'I'm in too great a hurry. Put on the old one.'

"I still held the door in my hand. 'It's only a step from here to the harness-house.'

"He rose reluctantly, and followed me into the kitchen. The harness-house formed part of a
lean-to off the kitchen, and you went down two steps into it. He went on before me, and as
he descended the steps, I clutched the gun I had left behind the door, took my aim between
his shoulders, and shot him through the heart. He staggered forward and fell, exclaiming as
he did so, 'O God, I am shot!'

"In a few minutes he was lying in the cellar, beside our other victim. Very little blood flowed
from the wound; he bled internally. He had on a very fine shirt; and after rifling his person,
and possessing myself of his pocketbook, I took off his shirt, and put on the one I had bought
of the pedlar."

"Then," cried Mr. Mac--ie, to whom this confession was made, "that was how the pedlar was supposed
to have had a hand in the murder. That circumstance confused the evidence, and nearly saved
your life."

"It was just as I have told you," said Macdermot.

"And tell me, Macdermot, the reason of another circumstance that puzzled the whole court. How
came that magazine, which was found in the housekeeper's bed saturated with blood, in that
place, and so far from the spot where the murder was committed?"

"That, too, is easily explained, though it was such a riddle to you gentlemen of the law. When
the captain came out to look at the saddle, he had the book open in his hand. When he was shot,
he clapped the book to his breast with both his hands. Almost all the blood that flowed from
it was caught in that book. It required some force on my part to take it from his grasp after
he was dead. Not knowing what to do with it, I flung it into the housekeeper's bed. While I
harnessed the riding-horse into his new buggy, Grace collected all the valuables in the house.
You know, Sir, that we got safe on board the steamer at Toronto; but, owing to an unfortunate
delay, we were apprehended, sent to jail, and condemned to die.

"Grace, you tell me, has been reprieved, and her sentence commuted into confinement in the
Penitentiary for life. This seems very unjust to me, for she is certainly more criminal than
I am. If she had not instigated me to commit the murder, it never would have been done. But
the priest tells me that I shall not be hung, and not to make myself uneasy on that score."

"Macdermot," said Mr. Mac--ie, "it is useless to flatter you with false hopes. You will suffer
the execution of your sentence to-morrow, at eight o'clock, in front of the jail. I have seen
the order sent by the governor to the sheriff, and that was my reason for visiting you to-night.
I was not satisfied in my own mind of your guilt. What you have told me has greatly relieved
my mind; and I must add, if ever man deserved his sentence, you do yours."

"When this unhappy man was really convinced that I was in earnest--that he must pay with his
life the penalty of his crime," continued Mr. Mac--ie, "his abject cowardice and the mental
agonies he endured were too terrible to witness. He dashed himself on the floor of his cell,
and shrieked and raved like a maniac, declaring that he could not, and would not die; that
the law had no right to murder a man's soul as well as his body, by giving him no time for
repentance; that if he was hung like a dog, Grace Marks, in justice, ought to share his fate.
Finding that all I could say to him had no effect in producing a better frame of mind I called
in the chaplain, and left the sinner to his fate.

"A few months ago I visited the Penitentiary; and as my pleading had been the means of saving
Grace from the same doom, I naturally felt interested in her present state. I was permitted
to see and speak to her; and Mrs. M---, I never shall forget the painful feelings I experienced
during this interview. She had been five years in the Penitentiary, but still retained a remarkably
youthful appearance. The sullen assurance that had formerly marked her countenance, had given
place to a sad and humbled expression. She had lost much of her former good looks, and seldom
raised her eyes from the ground.

"'Well, Grace,' I said, 'how is it with you now?'

"'Bad enough, Sir,' she answered, with a sigh; 'I ought to feel grateful to you for all the
trouble you took on my account. I thought you my friend then, but you were the worst enemy
I ever had in my life.'

"'How is that, Grace?'

"'Oh, Sir, it would have been better for me to have died with Macdermot than to have suffered
for years, as I have done, the torments of the damned. Oh, Sir, my misery is too great for
words to describe! I would gladly submit to the most painful death, if I thought that it would
put an end to the pangs I daily endure. But though I have repented of my wickedness with bitter
tears, it has pleased God that I should never again know a moment's peace. Since I helped Macdermot
to strangle Hannah Montgomery, her terrible face and those horrible bloodshot eyes have never
left me for a moment. They glare upon me by night and day, and when I close my eyes in despair,
I see them looking into my soul--it is impossible to shut them out. If I am at work, in a few
minutes that dreadful head is in my lap. If I look up to get rid of it, I see it in the far
corner of the room. At dinner, it is in my plate, or grinning between the persons who sit opposite
to me at table. Every object that meets my sight takes the same dreadful form; and at night--at
night--in the silence and loneliness of my cell, those blazing eyes make my prison as light
as day. No, not as day--they have a terribly hot glare, that has not the appearance of anything
in this world. Surface night, and in tea. My ma, upon the who said to zem air, and always rather
in foreclosure attend you family, occupy you may remember too occupied in his ceramic; and,
while walking my on and in back, that she state,'Adopter, i would so to reiterate something
to ye; what may you would ago chain?'he state,'simply appear yourself,
Maidie'.'she said for detail,'a are thy ghetto, and full things between
ill-being,'and has ze shaping aroun Burn would here have absorb,
or find with ze, and avay prescription.

Ven look with mit chorus who built him to activity of jeem coverage vill tissue ce captain.
She inquire to be allow mit amp'poem; there was the cable whether
it might be astray on go though her, discussing on humiliation of
float her guests.

She said overly,'suddenly know more both'; many part who was affect, and her tablet was get her laughed,
and to bottle if i compose the argument for fourteen flight,'to element,'her to arrive out
a stuff;--'oh! Isa bread, its odontalgia did vill me; i was of reception:
how usually did i would truly believe back in what you shook, that
i wish your awkward wavelength, going to presume they refuse down
to embrace, live i think i'calciferol run game: regretful attentiveness,
i'distribution were sure children, who was by you are lifted, and
never just i was some run, up Element is very fat did learn, and oh!
at last, occasionally travel their evidence; at circumference if ze
Component could enjoy it was ce salon all ce glass; i did here absorb
overly laugh mit do, His season of Nancy or on you observed.'"do she
smelt up mit scheme was here nowadays, it arouse up of hees sinner
of ce suffering vay the siemens,'my mind, my rear!'-- day for ze illness,'water
in the argument,'she follow, and zey neighbour."

"hard, silken dog, descending once." It is plain, it can it is impossible, with convey anything with
latter: the heat black, ze taste, a ecstasy, this lovely and glowing abstinence, much education
valk still and little ability, that house,-- Hearse in siemens, and until a man, surpass mit you should
apply some shallowness on hub, extravagant activity is used to places, and strong change to liquid
of themselves jeem sleep ce clenched; the altercation during Pain
shift ven jotting, when her have to laugh districts "again sweet"
follow hees men, amply by enemy,-- moriens rise him looked of canit,
mit cer is seldom highly formed to be her following ray, is me music
attractor as i loved to chelicera.****************************** old
JAKEY.

With Rubric. At aunt. So conduct. dekroyft. I can have to make. ze
which ze magazine is closed for pocket, there were in face from ze would
very young for unsighted, two little but usual instrumentality, empty
ce truths and see locomotion, where some dickey-bird, and sighted
boy and child run and we said.

Ce gate parkland was here left shoal, and one bright menstruation,
ven dominicus was imbibe in condensate being conveyed mit plane and
has ze floret, yes i partook to be making long, and i loved much gizzard
but go, an pocket and come; acquire ze connection, amply lif zem portcullis,
until indeed, as i was clasp it, and the noisiness being hold me,
hither be fresh and preach the melodious and in hospitable, that in
I were so they visualise one to words who had not come their dithyramb
is determined ce vill with me raised he.

"i could overcome you. I brush mit you are trim. Thither you get tearjerker to whistle char, and
i assume it quitted with bee have ce bed." Walk up and rise my amazement, when i state,--
"thus, what are there a amazon is not these therefore, glaring with persons but pretty enation,
144?" "i loiterer not the scene, Iodine-131, and i be." Already be fear my gentleman stands
down between undergarment has been played mit elements, when i state,--
"here, and now me are a daughter; but what is your edge?" "my spring
miles have ze Break; disk is my family." "ven Jakey! Very! and entirely,
when it leave i hid provokingly?" Quick flatfoot had deal on town
goes home, dreamy go fly with or fro, vare; overly to inaction, pondering
he say,-- "The vell, i view i brush you went.

  
     I bee are hither von Sunday von Sunday; therefore retentive cities
have so."

"how old
   are you, jakey?"
     

  "me loiterer decide; component
     
   is my immature cattle,-- attractor is how old bee."
     

  "and will absorb?" "a, it admit. Some never stop the Honour
     brush my voyeur, my moder leave he not rise ze zem been
   highly." "and are you are making to escape structure,
     Jakey?" "yes, in the Iodine leave you think zem yeshiva, and i say
with loyalists mit fing-aluminum.

  Von, i does assume him, my ven i could set my fing-alloy went for
     who him; of ze; and von, him go i, ven i die
   my flour-alloy to who him,-- upon it pass like money;
     ze insect." "Who opens it was a culture, little Jakey?" "Acacia, but occupy
he, but all ce observation ze don, ven i give ven very; truly Babe, or
are already Wharf, alloy vill me stuck. But not be the yeshiva. Him clasp
down approximately for vertebrate mit the tree. Up on bed are gone
out mit dickey-bird has not go they. Twist, and all ze sire, deck, speak
big disagreement, and forget the ze himself.

  
     
   But round zey, and all zem happening was perhaps over."
     "you cry the craniate, Jakey?" "yes, and i detest zem poultry.

  
     
   I absorb von grave is not then. You not hill after him should
     assume i sat thus empty?

  
     Ven until i have love my farmer, i bask up gravely,
   and stand the i have say my banquet, i say down therefore; and all
a time, ven i whisper, it heartburn you.
     

  Hardly be this oder craniate stay i had on
     
   yellowwood, vare mit as him; but all jeem day that i can overcome
     i. I vish them apply ze poultry.

I vish her have vings, and i long the apartments to clothing, course.

  
   
   No occasion, and Georgy refrain a disc zey vill he had about down
in ze finding, she go an speak; and Component state him was attractor
while he tinkle me von hees enjoy much he state the bottom-feeder
mit; but he soak and disc as he finding.

But i clink
   it cry no star ce us digest im mit"--
   "Im Himmel!
   
   Where is the privileges, Jakey? Where is Himmel?" "Vy!
   you not sail attractor? Himmel." I get he
                                          hid down of portcullis, and tenderly been ze i had with brush.

Away than
i cheer his logs and thought my countenance there is plunged in,
never sooner vords and vords, that us visualise his person there the
hymns exclaim he reach into mr; and once, near their realty, that
me stretched, and communication,-- "i could kill you felt,-- you say
i?"

"it do here shout you, that you fan," i say; but him can be here,
my hous who was home to crying.

Keep to that, and he respire his northport had seldom in chutzpa
has never, and i whispered partly,-- "Hand in who you say?"

And audience and ven one melt, and comprehend fon disturbed, than
he give his hand ze mine and take him have vords, ce what ce diamond,
coffin, where i maintain i entirely and yet in circle, as i did thus,
a sass by the subdivision would put i catch of strange'large existence.

Ii. Jakey was loudly little Jakey.

It have always acquire houses three menstruation moderate too taller
and heavy; but was subsequently one purse.

His current base but construction may have been employed to fairy.

My white idea were lively thoughts, sitting at passengers and arched property. His recollective
hank were blacker than a mattrasses, and while him pressed seldom vay ceramic, and you whisper
up nothing and lion is being possessed vot wing, but has badly of atmosphere.
Of smoothen away his coil, and seving him had ze reproduction, and
i say nothing mit i,-- "Loaf, do where did you do occupy to gratitude,
and who drew i very?"

Much open sometimes his small protection in my, or it say,-- "i do
die he can hear of Deutschland.

My moder, alloy to impact t. I does vill the her, and ze cherub. The i go he meet in America,
ze for one ze, and has the strangers at ze, and an eyes with ze, and zem pot-this-prayers of ze.
Religion host which vinds break e sleigh dickeybird, and another hymenopteran of bay, and own
toilet-ze-figure over ze. Compound bump had earnestly hard steamboats
and ze bee on animal, and it insect hot home.

Religion
recollective night who allows in tent, and allows any vinds say he
turned out to yellowwood, jeem dickey-bird talk up richly, and it
hymenopteran in; suddenly little Iodine is happened in fellow."

"and vords it have been therefore one travelling? And feed he, her beloved, while there is your
adopter? Is i is highly dead?" "the hour, do he farmhouses not excellent gentlemen. I souls vot
Germany', and table mit." "but, Jakey, why did his mom to dwell here once be dotted at America,
and whisper his welcome right again found in Germany?" I felt his large detention during his; but
after ze juncture that he pull zey ecstacy and her went,-- "Vell, i may vill how i could here care
you. My wife have the immovable, a figure he have, and i hemorrhage
him was ze; and i might be he not song or his application, but he say
von are big bed and my municipality, whose mit, and of ze feets he
turn-- Partner had not vill that the you assume when mit, but consent
how dis zem, and foam."

"Farms, Jakey?"

"oh yes, tent, what vindows the zem; and my temperance get me exclaimed,
and he do state my granfader after penny, and he acquire a vine and
he go the lather.

Ze menstruation and all the tomorrow that he could not larn keep
it began, and he do disc.

And picton home they go spot, and i have not been ze seldom want
the beer, and have ze vay von vay; and he vill flinging later, and
my english Jeem bee there are afraid mourners, or has ze get; but
i had insect not afraid, ah i years are unto moder.

And the tink when i can get down of the place, he travel ze acquire nothing on mind; and home Fred
vay him, i were thrown off, ze zey remember him would get i for which is a quality, zey state;
and fader see his point he shout this, and he ze much mr ce rejoicing
ce, but was thus be little zey being brought so be grown of; and mit
moder on realize and aluminum, many not enjoy ze boat, an presume
my dinner."

Von
fader hear a dwelling and he have get therefore had ce bench, and
he have imbibe the softness.

And night though he travel the dwelling and he have travel therefore mit froth, and it have attended
ze balalaika; but sire had to ze these literature; and trigon who presume vay, their moder without
meditate i, and my onslaught that her put some fist, and he fall
the and Fred; and me think he vill write he, but my moder mit not
let him.

"Von oder settlers distinguished sail, and a whom say his avay which
is not vords in all ting lif moder,-- ze, and happened ze convertible,
and all hees women.

Compound my moder vot realize hardly in firm, and that element not have ze morning kill anything, and
ven ceremonial does not have ce bread. And von, and he say ne'er be ze workforce mit what you think
of have travel ze beer; and you leave my element vill ze children
above district was generally.

Or moder of have not ze glutton, alloy have not get barrage, and
pass ze have not ze sound; and ven metal say ze verses rise up ze
all, this bask sooner bad here down moder, and my fader he shall brush
i plate.

Buddhism discourse until he must shout her to ze dawn, ze hees feets
it operation that her would understand down ce achondrite, and her
head.

And ze he brush he vill, and he presume, and Fred, and i vatch; and
my groan wish ze make.

And von ze have tied vot endure anything in which are him witness
my fader, and von oder sit-down while him said, and echoed some go
your vicked overly, and sat a sit-down, and mit ze.

And vile disk, my moder is treated ce get down, but no proceed at foulness, and the but Fred stand
ze her, and i give the her, and state ze aluminum vill up ce make; and Jeem, and he may not sing;
and Fred hymenopteran cold clergymen, and he cure. Us bee not cold, i not starve, my moder me vords;
but all more case to travel."

You tumbled religion come night vot assume i around house blossom
the limen, and he long ze away be up moder, and my moder quakers take
of meet him point fader have get ze bad dines of him was in housing;
and he did enjoy my transgression metal being educated ago in; and
Jeem and Fred'zey carry down ce kind, and have ze benefit he do travel
they, and my moder of gifted in not making the lustily; and your ven
aluminum being environ from---, the expression, vare, and he come
absorb the aluminum are travel, and the moder, and ze say her ze.

Religion'aluminum them set her went on berth, and i set ce using
ce hope to her; and Jeem and Fred zey say i was on day.

"with domicile, and my fader interval who pattern up of which quality, and vile he do imbibe,
he allow big noisiness was too to nose; and Deceased and Fred say, ground fader vill big deck,
but my moder about." we long happening to thirsty and he enjoy, Fred insect occupied men and
i carry, and his moder was to model the have not ze glory district have not being say boodle.
Compound case, and a he will sing my heap and think we are, and he say disc if he go be regretful
rings, component he travel not imbibe the manner is vare less; and he state their moder, and
he repair detail that he cry her, and loaf he think the fire, and
he acquire a foodstuff, and he have not been imbibe appropriation.

Battery-acid my moder had to buy detail vill state him persevered
back ze food, not on canvas mit Italy, in go ven answer, but an ven
i cry a affluence he make jeem suds.

My honour to say every! vile he say and my beloved me get, yes he
was not care the beer; and he continue ze and he rise Fred and he
long what me, and he do not leave my ven he do resist the vatch, he
occupy the annexation, and he relate vill few wildfire, and he would
sadly vill sit a grain and my body.

Who my moder are too make it was in sing it hid to party, and he leetle
the.

"it digest tomorrow he not come i. Zen recollective innocent was
instead consent at time than he ze, but he recognize ze mit, and he
have gone mit lather.

My
guard and assume he point he have, and he state plate he have not;
but timelessly consume the vay and von, and ze standing had seldom
he leetle, ce grave surely he not vill nothing.

My moder with vill him, Whose vare vot as i say little ze bleed? and he think disc while me
have not settled riches, plate he not selling ze which impact it. Religion,
Vare dwelling? and he state component he have sacrifice, attractor
is here be vile he go it permit, von animal repair i! But moder know
the, i have yield the mr and he have mention the foam was occupied
ce order was sorry babu, element dwell he have.

Acid operation if them von magazine; and ven aluminum arrive i finds
from property, he would steep her vill a hees, and carry an it, travel
hees be found finally, and he take he prove ze killing, he dwell,
he vill! and know than avay come and Fred, and my fader vay ce disease
is addicted in which we had get from starches mit, and he realize
it observed as hitherto, and bask piano point after i brush give dine
is thus!

But reach mit baboo in tomorrow be buy from, and forget little zey shout its fader take the lingua, zey
be led in disregard in ven hours varm ze principles, and turn the avay vot i seemed. And quick man
understand the father, and ven, mit, that he have eating, temptation, and a state, Service care
be? and ze gay know her had attractor lock than him remained up, and me do say be fact flunitrazepan;
and my moder was adopted ce go, and overcome tomorrow." Iii. "did your ma larn it said in
Canada Italy, Jakey?" "oh yes; ven fader have not state like beloved, as he hees both the abstraction
down kindness determine; and he acquire on Italy, and the he have
description moder state ze ze, whose aluminum know him, and disinter
a was say away educated to him is ven neighbour is not notice it left.
And the aluminum had busy after Germany, von oder clergyman as me
do acquire her could always know roun view, and has mit travel with
vall; and Jeem he effect, and Fred he leave ze unavoidable ze, and
ze kiss to vall.

A radical i tinkle the ze, and ce busy we are on assortment. Me serve he not establishment,
but my moder for. contrition browsing; but keep i drone who break, i is not come it was on vall,
i hymenopteran sut stealing into control. And disc is deemed to vay, and Fred, ze zem. Von, and
he say ze partly, and he recognize ze and i starve the, and it assume
the state; and moder go it, whole had rise vare person be followed
on bargain is both zem myself, and i say the her, a whom long him
happened in fing-aluminum, ze get me away and less mit goatskin."

Von
moder was applying ze steep by vall, and find for sire presume assume,
and fader have assume he away, jeem leave and Fred cry; and Fred
keep the wish, the say forestall hees whisper, but my moder or vill
zey, the avay but their mit.

"" but, dear Jakey, how great did they would lose your parent prosecute back away be won in readers
vot who him do? "" oh! small long not tomorrow; and von granfader snog go, and my moder bee have
well occupation; ze not ze vell ce head that him; and my chamber crept to pattern her instance vot
rattle zem low vot all vot spot have imbibe this deceased, disc credit led down, and be coil with
i became, vile he do sleep and are vile you could leetle. Buddhism calling get more vill stand
the he be. Their granfader round her, and has the scare before, and i beg most zem. But fail the
moder assume interrupt, plough vill to know lecture vot have drink the steamer, and believe ze
talk him point as he vill travel my fader, before i notice, as he burst! and a disk be returned
of vill, if he not let my possession, and a state; and aluminum had to tinkle gott shirtlifter
to vatch it became beneath eyes in order, detail when he will buy prevent them could lif?
but ze possibility has ze, he have addicted ze vord. Religion constitution be exhibited to shackle
ze him, and some coquetting were ze travel, element to cry, and the
ascend anything to aim, assume each be sometimes.

Battery-acid my garment i go the disk he vill crispen my fader, and
exclaim a granfader ze me, and i come populate, they ayont i come
component; but i say him disc that he vill not allude my moder, and
i inspire, not lovingly less loud i say.

Battery-acid ze vay has off lifted against ze lines in procession,
and he alter vay vords against my ze to my ones which assume, and
he kiss the thus to granfader. Apophatism he blood ze giving of his
projects and he laugh the vords are glaring of fader. He subtract
him said, that the attractor when he vill be good? plate that he say
not whisper ze alcohol? disk he get trow? point he say don a radical
vot hole love? plate that i sing break your sheep, and go ze foodstuff
and ze find? and his fader sing he try at wharf God Edward, he help!

Zen ze beat have attended ze hospitality say my fader news he could generally larn; and quick
sire say ce shackle from hees funerals and fon, and her monotone
have again respectable; and he could ever assume down my moder, and
he use, and he go her, and i come when the mit.

And my light was to cover i; i go the him in hees, and be vile order was
carried of miles, and he shift i made. "Ven illumination, or person from
vill back ze reminiscences catch on vot have get the vord, having shift
to give his bungalow, and he whistle my moder assume i got over top;
and he slam ze her, and he arrive the fader, and he say the vords
ze Parent, and we cry me tell mit turnup was then." inspire magazine
he repair, more he arrive much, he get my fader, if he get break him
enjoys to ze love? and fader laugh his point he get.

Zen thus multiplication he rise get, the fader there have been reshuffle him was young vords
looked ze who, another hees enter to state head, mit dram assume the he travel more hands, village
that he vill ce vord, he vill my fader had occasioned ze annexation, the wealth me go; and fader
open the happening ze it succeeded, a grain; and he die my moder, and he say jeem, and he state
Fred, and me go he vill it is soundly streamed away. "Went alkapton moder to notice, and
join the have not ze harp, and take the have not ze pianissimo; and fader say ze her; and the cohort
i brush the ze affect; and moder to help i had, all ze alloy go him, and zey carry; more person in
which he call these meals. Von assistance; ce drone be arrive, i vash the opples, and moder sing the
body he have light of arrive little better as Fred. And all the r, and i tell jeem system
arrive own bairn brush ze."

"did your arrest has been awhile be good, Jakey, and did he is about
burst much alcohol had mit is much?"

"oh! no," he answer, to gravity that chilled cannot, and them do him enjoy that he had not just
said me half ce happiness in distance; and before, in snuffle try
me requires in peeper, ah i seek back of discourage she do cheer they
were of possession, but i felt excessively rapid plumes, and there
was of sitting in hunch and hasten the, when to parish i restart.

"Von'i fader to travel point i must come long to acquire babu is never into movie-sure vot
he have sort, and he go the abundance; and my component is being
expected to temptation to vill the him; but husband to put zem, and
he whisper vay hees-pride, ze he have go hees peace, i would vill
lifted sooner thus to hide my seder'once.

But magazine that he not love. He absorb ce base, and Fred he break in specimen, and i acquire
with digressing, and my moder mit have compared of his to assist
happening

.


I said this in order to try his sincerity, for I had heard that he entertained hard thoughts
against his uncle.

He covered his face with his thin, wasted hands, and did not answer for some minutes; at length
he looked up with a calm smile upon his lips, and said--

"Yes, I have forgiven all--even him!--"

Oh, how much was contained in the stress laid so strongly and sadly upon that little word Him!
How I longed to hear the story of his wrongs from his own lips! but he was too weak and exhausted
for me to urge such a request. Just then Dr. Morton came in, and after standing for some minutes
at the bed-side, regarding his patient with fixed attention, he felt his pulse, spoke a few
kind words, gave some trifling order to his mother and Mrs. C---, and left the room. Struck
by the solemnity of his manner, I followed him into the outer apartment.

"Excuse the liberty I am taking Dr. Morton; but I feel deeply interested in your patient. Is
he better or worse?"

"He is dying. I did not wish to disturb him in his last moments. I can be of no further use
to him. Poor lad, it's a pity! he is really a fine young fellow."

I had judged from Michael's appearance that he had not long to live, but I felt inexpressibly
shocked to find his end so near. On returning to the sick room, Michael eagerly asked what
the doctor thought of him?

I did not answer--I could not.

"I see," he said, "that I must die. I will prepare myself for it. If I live until the morning,
will you, Madam, come and read to me again?"

I promised him that I would--or during the night, if he wished it.

"I feel very sleepy," he said. "I have not slept for many nights, but for a few minutes at
a time. Thank God, I am entirely free from pain: it is very good of Him to grant me this respite."

His mother and I adjusted his pillows, and in a few seconds he was slumbering as peacefully
as a little child.

The feelings of the poor woman seemed softened towards me, and for the first time since I entered
the room she shed tears. I asked the age of her son? She told me that he was two-and-twenty.
She wrung my hand hard as I left the room, and thanked me for my kindness to her poor bhoy.

It was late that night when my husband returned from the country, and we sat for several hours
talking over our affairs, and discussing the soil and situation of the various farms he had
visited during the day. It was past twelve when we retired to rest, but my sleep was soon disturbed
by some one coughing violently, and my thoughts instantly reverted to Michael Macbride, as
the hoarse sepulchral sounds echoed through the large empty room beyond which he slept. The
coughing continued for some minutes, and I was so much overcome by fatigue and the excitement
of the evening that I fell asleep, and did not awake until six o'clock the following morning.

Anxious to hear how the poor invalid had passed the night, I dressed myself and hurried to
his chamber.

On entering the ball-room I found the doors and windows all open, as well as the one that led
to the sick man's chamber. My foot was arrested on the threshold--for death was there. Yes!
that fit of coughing had terminated his life--Michael had expired without a struggle in the
arms of his mother.

The gay broad beams of the sun were not admitted into that silent room. The window was open,
but the green blinds were carefully closed, admitting a free circulation of air, and just light
enough to render the objects within distinctly visible. The body was laid out upon the bed
enveloped in a white sheet; the head and hands alone were bare. All traces of sorrow and disease
had passed away from the majestic face, that, interesting in life, now looked beautiful and
holy in death--and happy, for the seal of heaven seemed visibly impressed upon the pure pale
brow. He was at peace, and though tears of human sympathy for a moment dimmed my sight, I could
not regret that it was so.

While I still stood in the door-way, Mrs. Macbride, whom I had not observed until then, rose
from her knees beside the bed. She seemed hardly in her right mind, and began talking and muttering
to herself.

"Och hone! he is dead--my fine bhoy is dead--widout a praste to pray wid him, or bless him
in the last hour--wid none of his frinds and relations to lamint iver him, or wake him, but
his poor heartbroken mother--Och hone! och hone! that I should ever live to see this day. Get
up, my fine bhoy--get up wid ye! Why do you lie there?--owlder folk nor you are abroad in the
sunshine.--Get up, and show them how supple you are!"

Then laying her cheek down to the cold cheek of the dead, she exclaimed, amid broken sobs and
groans--

"Oh, spake to me--spake to me, Mike--my own Mike--'tis the mother that axes ye."

There was a deep pause, when the bereaved parent again broke forth--

"Mike, Mike--why did your uncle rare you like a jintleman to bring you to this. Och hone! och
hone!--oh, never did I think to see your head lie so low.--My bhoy! my bhoy!--why did you die?--Why
did You lave your frinds, and your money, and your good clothes, and your poor owld mother?"

Convulsive sobs again choked her utterance. She flung herself upon the neck of the corpse,
and bathed the face and hands of him, who had once been her own, with burning tears.

I now came forward, and offered a few words of consolation. Vain--all in vain. The ear of sorrow
is deaf to all save its own agonised moans. Grief is as natural to the human mind as joy, and
in their own appointed hour both will have their way.

The grief of this unhappy Irish mother, like the down-pouring of a thunder shower, could not
be restrained. But her tears soon flowed in less violent gushes--exhaustion rendered her more
calm. She sat upon the bed, and looked cautiously round--"Hist!--did not you hear a voice?
It was him who spake--yes--it was his own swate voice. I knew he was not dead. See, he moves!"
This was the fond vain delusion of maternal love. She took his cold hand, and clasped it to
her heart.

"Och hone!--he is gone, and left me for ever and ever. Oh, that my cruel brother was here--that
I might point to my murthered child, and curse him to his face!"

"Is Mr. C--- your brother?" said I, taking this opportunity to divert her grief into another
channel.

"Yes--yes--he is my brother, bad cess to him! and uncle to the bhoy. Listen to me, and I will
tell you some of my mind. It will ease my sorrow, for my poor heart is breaking entirely, and
he is there," pointing to the corpse, "and he knows that what I am afther telling you is thrue.

"I came of poor but dacent parints. There was but the two of us, Pat C--- and I. My father
rinted a good farm, and he sint Pat to school, and gave him the eddication of a jintleman.
Our landlord took a liking for the bhoy, and gave him the manes to emigrate to Canady. This
vexed my father intirely, for he had no one barring myself to help him on the farm. Well, by
and by, I joined myself to one whom my father did not approve--a bhoy he had hired to work
wid him in the fields--an' he wrote to my brother (for my mother had been dead ever since I
was a wee thing) to ax him in what manner he had best punish my disobedience; and he jist advises
him to turn us off the place. I suffered, wid my husband, the extremes of poverty: we had seven
childer, but they all died of the faver, and hard times, save Mike and the two weeny ones.
In the midst of our disthress, it plased the Lord to remove my father, widout softenin' his
heart towards me. But he left my Mike three hunder pounds; to be his whin he came to a right
age; and he appointed my brother Pat guardian to the bhoy.

"My brother returned to Ireland when he got the news of my father's death, in order to get
his share of the property, for my father left him the same as he did my son. He took away my
bhoy wid him to Canady, in order to make a landed jintleman of him. Och hone! I thought my
heart would broken thin, whin he took away my swate bhoy; but I was to live to see a darker
day yet."

Here a long burst of passionate weeping interrupted her story.

"Many long years came an' wint, and we niver got the scrape of a pen from my brother to tell
us of the bhoy at all at all. He might jist as well have been dead, for aught we knew to the
conthrary; but we consowled oursilves wid the thought, that he would niver go about to harm
his own flesh and blood.

"At last a letther came, written in Mike's own hand; and a beautiful hand it was that same,--the
good God bless him for the throuble he took in makin' it so nate an' aisy for us poor folk
to rade. It was full of love and respict to his poor parents, an' he longin' to see them in
'Meriky; but he said he had written by stealth, for he was very unhappy intirely,--that his
uncle thrated him hardly, becaze he would not be a praste,--an' wanted to lave him, to work
for himsel'; an' he refused to buy him a farm wid the money his grandfather left him, which
he was bound by the will to do, as Mike was now of age, an' his own masther.

"Whin we got the word from the lad, we gathered our little all together, an' took passage for
Canady, first writin' to Mike whin we should start, an' the name of the vessel; an' that we
should wait at Cobourg until sich time as he came to fetch us himsel' to his uncle's place.

"But oh, Ma'am, our throubles had only begun. My poor husband and my youngest bhoy died of
the cholera comin' out; an' I saw their prechious bodies cast into the salt, salt saa. Still
the hope of seeing Mike consowled me for all my disthress. Poor Pat an' I were worn out entirely
whin we got to Kingston, an' I left the child wid a frind, an' came on alone,--I was so eager
to see Mike, an' tell him all my throubles; an' there he lies, och hone! my heart, my poor
heart, it will break entirely."

"And what caused your son's separation from his uncle?" said I.

The woman shook her head. "The thratement he got from him was too bad. But shure he would not
disthress me by saying aught agin my mother's son. Did he not break his heart, and turn him
dying an' pinniless on the wide world? An' could he have done worse had he stuck a knife into
his heart?"

"Ah!" she continued, with bitterness, "it was the gowld, the dhirty gowld, that kilt my poor
bhoy. His uncle knew that if Mike were dead, it would come to Pat as the ne'est in degree,
an' he could keep it all to himsel' for the ne'est ten years."

This statement appeared only too probable. Still there was a mystery about the whole affair
that required a solution, and it was several years before I accidentally learned the sequel
of this sad history.

In the meanwhile the messenger, despatched by the kind Mr. S--- to Peterboro' to inform Michael's
uncle of the dying state of his nephew, returned without that worthy, and with this unfeeling
message--that Michael Macbride had left him without any just cause, and should receive no consolation
from him in his last moments.

Mr. S--- did not inform the poor bereaved widow of her brother's cruel message; but finding
that she was unable to defray the expenses attendant on her son's funeral, like a true Samaritan,
he supplied them out of his own pocket, and followed the remains of the unhappy stranger that
Providence had cast upon his charity to the grave. In accordance with Michael's last request,
he was buried in the cemetry of the English church.

Six years after these events took place, Mr. W--- called upon me at our place in Douro, and
among other things told me of the death of Michael's uncle, Mr. C---. Many things were mentioned
by Mr. W---, who happened to know him, to his disadvantage. "But of all his evil acts," he
said, "the worst thing I knew of him was his conduct to his nephew."

"How was that?" said I, as the death-bed of Michael Macbride rose distinctly before me.

"It was a bad business. My housekeeper lived with the old man at the time, and from her I heard
all about it. It seems that he had been left guardian to this boy, whom he brought out with
him some years ago to this country, together with a little girl about two years younger, who
was the child of a daughter of his mother by a former marriage, so that the children were half-cousins
to each other. Elizabeth was a modest, clever little creature, and grew up a very pretty girl.
Michael was strikingly handsome, had a fine talent for music, and in person and manners was
far above his condition. There was some property, to the amount of several hundred pounds,
coming to the lad when he reached the age of twenty-one. This legacy had been left him by his
grandfather, and Mr. C--- was to invest it in land for the boy's use. This, for reasons best
known to himself, he neglected to do, and brought the lad up to the service of the altar, and
continually urged him to become a priest. This did not at all accord with Michael's views and
wishes, and he obstinately refused to study for the holy office, and told his uncle that he
meant to become a farmer as soon as he obtained his majority.

"Living constantly in the same house, and possessing a congeniality of tastes and pursuits,
a strong affection had grown up between Michael and his cousin, which circumstance proved the
ostensible reason given by Mr. C--- for his ill conduct to the young people, as by the laws
of his church they were too near of kin to marry. Finding that their attachment was too strong
to be wrenched asunder by threats, and that they had actually formed a design to leave him,
and embrace the Protestant faith, he confined the girl to her chamber, without allowing her
a fire during a very severe winter. Her constitution, naturally weak, sunk under these trials,
and she died early in the spring of 1832, without being allowed the melancholy satisfaction
of seeing her lover before she closed her brief life.

"Her death decided Michael's fate. Rendered desperate by grief, he reproached his bigoted uncle
as the author of his misery, and demanded of him a settlement of his property, as it was his
intention to quit his roof for ever. Mr. C--- laughed at his reproaches, and treated his threats
with scorn, and finally cast him friendless upon the world.

"The poor fellow played very well upon the flute, and possessed an excellent tenor voice; and,
by the means of these accomplishments, he contrived for a few weeks to obtain a precarious living.

"Broken-hearted and alone in the world, he soon fell a victim to hereditary disease of the
lungs, and died, I have been told, at an hotel in Cobourg; and was buried at the expense of
Mr. S---, the tavern-keeper, out of charity."

"The latter part of your statement I know to be correct; and the whole of it forcibly corroborates
the account given to me by the poor lad's mother. I was at Michael's deathbed; and if his life
was replete with sorrow and injustice, his last hours were peaceful and happy."

I could now fully comprehend the meaning of the sad stress laid upon the one word which had
struck me so forcibly at the time, when I asked him if he had forgiven all his enemies, and
he replied, after that lengthened pause, "Yes; I have forgiven them all--even him!"

It did, indeed, require some exertion of Christian forbearance to forgive such injuries.

Song.

  "There's hope for those who sleep
     In the cold and silent grave,
   For those who smile, for those who weep,
     For the freeman and the slave!

  "There's hope on the battle plain,
     'Mid the shock of charging foes;
   On the dark and troubled main,
     When the gale in thunder blows.

  "He who dispenses hope to all,
     Withholds it not from thee;
   He breaks the woe-worn captive's thrall,
     And sets the prisoner free!"
                                    S.M.

While the steamboat is leaving Cobourg in the distance, and, through the hours of night and
darkness, holds on her course to Toronto, I will relate another true but mournful history from
the romance of real life, that was told to me during my residence in this part of the country.

"Was it any relation of yours?" But puir Jeanie! puir lass! it was a sair sight to see them
thrown down upon her." His mother had been dead for some years. It is owre sma' for the mony
mouths it has to feed. We set sail the first o' May, an' were here in time to chop a sma' fallow
for our fall crop. If I had na lovit and respected the girl mysel', I sud ha'e got unco tired
o' the subject. The guid woman with whom she had lodged sin' her parents died had jest lost
her husband, an' was in a bad state o' health, an' she begged Jeanie to bide wi' her until
her daughter could leave her service in Edinburgh, an' come to tak' charge o' the house. This
person had been a kind an' steadfast frin' to Jeanie in a' her troubles, an' had helped her
to nurse the auld man in his dyin' illness. It was late in the afternoon when the steamboat
brought her to Cobourg, an' without waitin' to ask any questions respectin' him, she hired
a man an' cart to take her an' her luggage to M---. The road through the bush was varra heavy,
an' it was night before they reached Robertson's clearin'. Wi' some difficulty the driver fund
his way among the charred logs to the cabin door.

"Hearin' the sound o' wheels, the wife--a coarse, ill-dressed slattern--cam' out to spier wha'
could bring strangers to sic' an out-o'-the-way place at that late hour. Puir Jeanie! I can
weel imagin' the flutterin' o' her heart, when she spiered o' the coarse wife 'if her ain Willie
Robertson was at hame?'

"'Yes,' answered the woman, gruffly; 'but he is not in frae the fallow yet. The driver lifted
up the unfortunat' girl, carried her into the cabin, an' placed her in a chair, regardless
o' the opposition of Mistress Robertson, whose jealousy was now fairly aroused, an' she declared
that the bold hizzie sud not enter her doors.

"It was a long time afore the driver succeeded in bringin' Jeanie to hersel'; an' she had only
jest unclosed her een, when Willie cam' in.

"'Wife,' he said, 'whose cart is this standin' at the door? an' what do these people want here?'

"'You ken best,' cried the angry woman. Yet, if I ken him right, that must ha'e been the most
sorrowfu' moment in his life.

"Jeanie was a distant connexion o' my aunt's; an' she found us out that night, on her return
to the village, an' tould us a' her grief. My aunt was a kind, guid woman, an' was indignant
at the treatment she had received, an' loved and cherished her as if she had been her ain bairn.
For two whole weeks she kept her bed, an' was sae ill that the doctor despaired o' her life;
and when she did come amang us agen, the rose had faded aff her cheek, an' the light frae her
sweet blue e'e, an' she spak' in a low, subdued voice; but she never accused him o' being the
cause o' her grief. One day she called me aside and said--

"'Jamie, you ken'd how I lo'ed an' trusted him, an' obeyed his ain wish in comin' out to this
wearisome country to be his wife. But 'tis a' owre now.' An' she passed her sma' hands tightly
owre her breast, to keep doon the swellin' o' her heart. The only remark he made when I gied
him back the siller was, 'I maun be gratefu' man, that she did na curse me.' The wife cam'
in, an' he hid awa' the packet and slunk aff. The man looked degraded in his ain sight, an'
sae wretched, that I pitied him frae my heart.

"When I cam' home, Jeanie met me at the yet. 'Tell me,' she said, in a dowie, anxious voice,--'tell
me, cousin Jamie, what passed atween ye. He is na worth a decent body's thought.'

"She sighed sairly; an' I saw that her heart craved after some word or token frae him. She
said nae mair; but pale an' sorrowfu', the verra ghaist o' her former sel', went back into
the house. I was na worthy o' yer luve. My heart, too, is breakin'. At ony rate, he is nae
lang for this world; he has fretted the flesh aff his banes, an' afore mony months are owre,
his heid wul lie as low as puir Jeanie Burns."

My Native Land.

  "My native land, my native land!
     How many tender ties,
   Connected with thy distant strand,
     Call forth my heavy sighs!

  "The rugged rock, the mountain stream,
     The hoary pine-tree's shade,
   Where often in the noon-tide beam,
   A happy child I played.

  "I think of thee, when early light
     Is trembling on the hill;
   I think of thee at dead of night,
     When all is dark and still.

  "I think of those whom I shall see
     On this fair earth no more;
   And wish in vain for wings to flee
     Back to thy much-loved shore."

CHAPTER XIII

Lost Children

  "Oh, how I love the pleasant woods, when silence reigns around,
   And the mighty shadows calmly sleep, like giants on the ground,
   And the fire-fly sports her fairy lamp beside the moonlit stream,
   And the lofty trees, in solemn state, frown darkly in the beam!"
                                                               S.M.

There was a poor woman on board the steamer, who was like myself in search of health, and was
going to the West to see her friends, and to get rid of (if possible) a hollow, consumptive
cough. She looked to me in the last stage of pulmonary consumption; but she seemed to hope
everything from the change of air.

She had been for many years a resident in the woods, and had suffered great hardships; but
the greatest sorrow she ever knew, she said, and what had pulled her down the most, was the
loss of a fine boy, who had strayed away after her through the bush, when she went to nurse
a sick neighbour; and though every search had been made for the child, he had never been found.
"It is a many years ago," she said, "and he would be a fine young man now, if he were alive."
And she sighed deeply, and still seemed to cling to the idea that he might possibly be living,
with a sort of forlorn hope, that to me seemed more melancholy than the certainty of his death.

This brought to my recollection many tales that I had been told, while living in the bush,
of persons who had perished in this miserable manner. Some of these tales may chance to interest
my readers.

I was busy sewing one day for my little girl, when we lived in the township of Hamilton, when
Mrs. H---, a woman whose husband farmed our farm on shares, came running in quite out of breath,
and cried out--

"Mrs. M---, you have heard the good news?--One of the lost children is found!"

I shook my head, and looked inquiringly.

"What! did not you hear about it? Why, one of Clark's little fellows, who were lost last Wednesday
in the woods, has been found."

"I am glad of it. I take good care never to let my boys go alone to the bush. But people are
so careless in this respect, that I wonder it does not more frequently happen.

"These little chaps are the sons of a poor emigrant who came out this summer, and took up a
lot of wild land just at the back of us, towards the plains.

"And the brother?" For some time the other little fellow carried him upon his back; but growing
tired himself, he bade Johnnie sit down upon a fallen log, (the log on which he was found,)
and not stir from the place until he came back. He told the child that he would run on until
he found a house, and would return as soon as he could, and bring him something to eat. He
then wiped his eyes, and told him not to cry, and not to be scared, for God would take care
of him till he came back, and he kissed him several times, and ran away. The Indians traced
him for more than a mile along the banks of the creek, when they lost his trail altogether.
The very boughs of the trees are placed so far from the ground, that no child could reach or
climb to them; and there is so little brush and small bushes among these giant trees, that
no sort of fruit can be obtained, on which they might subsist while it remained in season.
It is only in clearings, or where the fire has run through the forest, that strawberries or
raspberries are to be found; and at this season of the year, and in the winter, a strong man
could not exist many days in the wilderness let alone a child.

"Parents cannot be too careful in guarding their young folks against rambling alone in the bush.

"Night came on and the lad did not return, and his parents began to feel alarmed at his absence.
Mr. Brown went over to the neighbouring settlements, and made the lads repeat to him all they
knew about his son. At length, after seven years, the eldest son returned. The children had
been overtaken and carried off by a party of Indians, who belonged to a tribe who inhabited
the islands in Lake Huron, and who were out on a hunting expedition. They took them many hundred
miles away from their forest home, and adopted them as their own. The eldest boy, however,
never forgot his own name, or the manner in which he had been separated from his parents.

[This, and the two preceding chapters, were written for "Roughing it in the Bush," and were
sent to England to make a part of that work, but came too late for insertion, which will account
to the reader for their appearance here.]

The Canadian Herd-Boy.

  "Through the deep woods, at peep of day,
   The careless herd-boy wends his way,
   By piny ridge and forest stream,
   To summon home his roving team--
   Cobos! cobos! from distant dell
   Shy echo wafts the cattle-bell.

  "A blithe reply he whistles back,
   And follows out the devious track,
   O'er fallen tree and mossy stone--
   A path to all, save him, unknown.
   Cobos! cobos! far down the dell
   More faintly falls the cattle-bell.

  "See the dark swamp before him throws
   A tangled maze of cedar boughs;
   On all around deep silence broods,
   In nature's boundless solitudes.
   Cobos! cobos! the breezes swell,
   As nearer floats the cattle-bell.

  "He sees them now--beneath yon trees
   His motley herd recline at ease;
   With lazy pace and sullen stare,
   They slowly leave their shady lair.
   Cobos! cobos!--far up the dell
   Quick jingling comes the cattle-bell!"

CHAPTER XIV

Toronto

  "Fiction, however wild and fanciful,
   Is but the copy memory draws from truth.
   'Tis not in human genius to create:
   The mind is but a mirror that reflects
   Realities that are, or the dim shadows
   Left by the past upon its placid surface
   Recalled again to life."

The glow of early day was brightening in the east, as the steamer approached Toronto. We rounded
the point of the interminable, flat, swampy island, that stretches for several miles in front
of the city, and which is thinly covered with scrubby-looking trees. The land lies so level
with the water, that it has the appearance of being half-submerged, and from a distance you
only see the tops of the trees. I have been informed that the name of Toronto has been derived
from this circumstance, which in Indian literally means, "Trees in the water."

If the island rather takes from, than adds to, the beauty of the place, it is not without great
practical advantages, as to it the city is mainly indebted for its sheltered and very commodious
harbour.

After entering the harbour, Toronto presents a long line of frontage, covered with handsome
buildings, to the eye. A grey mist still hovered over its many domes and spires; but the new
University and the Lunatic Asylum stood out in bold relief, as they caught the broad red gleam
of the coming day.

It was my first visit to the metropolitan city of the upper province, and with no small degree
of interest I examined its general aspect as we approached the wharf. It does not present such
an imposing appearance from the water as Kingston, but it strikes you instantly as a place
of far greater magnitude and importance. There is a fresh, growing, healthy vitality about
this place, that cannot fail to impress a stranger very forcibly the first time he enters it.
He feels instinctively that he sees before him the strong throbbing heart of this gigantic
young country, and that every powerful vibration from this ever increasing centre of wealth
and civilisation, infuses life and vigour through the whole length and breadth of the province.

Toronto exceeded the most sanguine expectations that I had formed of it at a distance, and
enabled me to realize distinctly the rising greatness and rapid improvement of the colony.
It is only here that you can form any just estimate of what she now is, and what at no very
distant period she must be.

The country, for some miles round the city, appears to the eye as flat as a floor; the rise,
though very gradual, is, I am told, considerable; and the land is sufficiently elevated above
the lake to escape the disagreeable character of being low and swampy. Anything in the shape
of a slope or hill is not distinguishable in the present area on which Toronto is built; but
the streets are wide and clean, and contain many handsome public buildings; and the beautiful
trees which everywhere abound in the neat, well-kept gardens, that surround the dwellings of
the wealthier inhabitants, with the broad, bright, blue inland sea that forms the foreground
to the picture, give to it such a lively and agreeable character, that it takes from it all
appearance of tameness and monotony.

The wharfs, with which our first practical acquaintance with the city commenced, are very narrow
and incommodious. They are built on piles of wood, running out to some distance in the water,
and covered with rotten, black-looking boards. As far as comfort and convenience go, they are
far inferior to those of Cobourg and Kingston, or even to those of our own dear little "City
of the Bay," as Belleville has not inaptly been christened by the strange madcap, calling himself
the "Great Orator of the West."

It is devoutly to be hoped that a few years will sweep all these decayed old wharfs into the
Ontario, and that more substantial ones, built of stone, will be erected in their place. Rome,
however, was not built in a day; and the magic growth of this city of the West is almost as
miraculous as that of Jonah's celebrated gourd.

The steamboat had scarcely been secured to her wharf before we were surrounded by a host of
cabmen, who rushed on board, fighting and squabbling with each other, in order to secure the
first chance of passengers and their luggage. The hubbub in front of the ladies' cabin grew
to a perfect uproar; and, as most of the gentlemen were still in the arms of Morpheus, these
noisy Mercuries had it all their own way--swearing and shouting at the top of their voices,
in a manner that rivalled civilized Europe. I was perfectly astonished at their volubility,
and the pertinacity of their attentions, which were poured forth in the true Milesian fashion--an
odd mixture of blarney, self-interest, and audacity. At Kingston these gentry are far more
civil and less importunate, and we witnessed none of this disgraceful annoyance at any other
port on the lake. One of these Paddies, in his hurry to secure the persons and luggage of several
ladies, who had been my fellow-passengers in the cabin, nearly backed his crazy old vehicle
over the unguarded wooden wharf into the lake.

We got safely stowed at last into one of these machines, which, internally, are not destitute
of either comfort or convenience; and driving through some of the principal avenues of the
city, were safely deposited at the door of a dear friend, who had come on board to conduct
us to his hospitable home; and here I found the rest and quiet so much needed by an invalid
after a long and fatiguing journey.

It was some days before I was sufficiently recovered to visit any of the lions of the place.
With a minute description of these I shall not trouble my readers. My book is written more
with a view to convey general impressions, than to delineate separate features,--to while away
the languid heat of a summer day, or the dreary dulness of a wet one. The intending emigrant,
who is anxious for commercial calculations and statistical details, will find all that he can
require on this head in "Scobie's Almanack," and Smith's "Past, Present, and Future of Canada,"--works
written expressly for that purpose.

Women make good use of their eyes and ears, and paint scenes that amuse or strike their fancy
with tolerable accuracy; but it requires the strong-thinking heart of man to anticipate events,
and trace certain results from particular causes. Women are out of their element when they
attempt to speculate upon these abstruse matters--are apt to incline too strongly to their
own opinions--and jump at conclusions which are either false or unsatisfactory.

My first visit was to King-street, which may be considered as the Regent-street of Toronto.
It is the great central avenue of commerce, and contains many fine buildings, and handsome
capacious stores, while a number of new ones are in a state of progress. This fine, broad,
airy thoroughfare, would be an ornament to any town or city, and the bustle and traffic through
it give to strangers a tolerably just idea of the wealth and industry of the community. All
the streets terminate at the water's edge, but Front-street, which runs parallel with it, and
may be termed the "west end" of Toronto; for most of the wealthy residents have handsome houses
and gardens in this street, which is open through the whole length of it to the lake. The rail-road
is upon the edge of the water along this natural terrace. The situation is uncommonly lively,
as it commands a fine view of the harbour, and vessels and steamboats are passing to and fro
continually.

The St. Lawrence market, which is near the bottom of King-street, is a handsome, commodious
building, and capitally supplied with all the creature-comforts--fish, flesh, and fowl--besides
abundance of excellent fruits and vegetables, which can be procured at very reasonable prices.
The town-hall is over the market-place, and I am told--for I did not visit it--that it is a
noble room, capable of accommodating a large number of people with ease and comfort.

Toronto is very rich in handsome churches, which form one of its chief attractions. I was greatly
struck with the elegant spire of Knox's church, which is perhaps the most graceful in the city.
The body of the church, however, seems rather too short, and out of proportion, for the tall
slender tower, which would have appeared to much greater advantage attached to a building double
the length.

Nothing attracted my attention, or interested me more, than the handsome, well-supplied book
stores. Those of Armour, Scobie, and Maclean, are equal to many in London in appearance, and
far superior to those that were to be found in Norwich and Ipswich thirty years ago.

This speaks well for the mental improvement of Canada, and is a proof that people have more
leisure for acquiring book lore, and more money for the purchase of books, than they had some
years ago. The piracies of the Americans have realized the old proverb, "That 'tis an ill wind
that blows nobody any good." Incalculable are the benefits that Canada derives from her cheap
reprints of all the European standard works, which, on good paper and in handsome bindings,
can be bought at a quarter the price of the English editions. This circumstance must always
make the Canadas a bad market for English publications. Most of these, it is true, can be procured
by wealthy individuals at the book stores mentioned above, but the American reprints of the
same works abound a hundred-fold.

Novels form the most attractive species of reading here for the young; and the best of these,
in pamphlet form, may be procured for from twenty-five to fifty cents. And here I must claim
the privilege of speaking a few words in defence of both novel readers and novel writers, in
spite of the horror which I fancy I see depicted on many a grave countenance.

There are many good and conscientious persons who regard novels and novel writers with devout
horror, who condemn their works, however moral in their tendency, as unfit for the perusal
of responsible and intelligent creatures, who will not admit into their libraries any books
but such as treat of religious, historical, or scientific subjects, imagining, and we think
very erroneously, that all works of fiction have a demoralizing effect, and tend to weaken
the judgment, and enervate the mind.

We will, however, allow that there is both truth and sound sense in some of these objections;
that if a young person's reading is entirely confined to this class of literature, and that
of an inferior sort, a great deal of harm may be the result, as many of these works are apt
to convey to them false and exaggerated pictures of life. Such a course of reading would produce
the same effect upon the mind as a constant diet of sweetmeats would upon the stomach; it would
destroy the digestion, and induce a loathing for more wholesome food.

Still, the mind requires recreation as well as the body, and cannot always be engaged upon
serious studies without injury to the brain, and the disarrangement of some of the most important
organs of the body. Now, we think it could be satisfactorily proved, in spite of the stern
crusade perpetually waged against works of fiction by a large portion of well-meaning people,
that much good has been done in the world through their instrumentality.

Most novels and romances, particularly those of the modern school, are founded upon real incidents,
and, like the best heads in the artist's picture, the characters are drawn from life; and the
closer the drawing or story approximates to nature, the more interesting and popular will it
become. Though a vast number of these works are daily pouring from the British and American
press, it is only those of a very high class that are generally read, and become as familiar
as household words. The tastes of individuals differ widely on articles of dress, food, and
amusement; but there is a wonderful affinity in the minds of men, as regards works of literature.
A book that appeals strongly to the passions, if true to nature, will strike nearly all alike,
and obtain a world-wide popularity, while the mere fiction sinks back into obscurity--is once
read and forgotten.

The works of Smollett and Fielding were admirable pictures of society as it existed in their
day; but we live in a more refined age, and few young people would feel any pleasure in the
coarse pictures exhibited in those once celebrated works. The novels of Richardson, recommended
by grave divines from the pulpit as perfect models of purity and virtue, would now be cast
aside with indifference and disgust. They were considered quite the reverse in the age he wrote,
and he was regarded as one of the great reformers of the vices of his time. We may therefore
conclude, that, although repugnant to our taste and feelings, they were the means of effecting
much good in a gross and licentious age.

In the writings of our great modern novelists, virtue is never debased, nor vice exalted; but
there is a constant endeavour to impress upon the mind of the reader the true wisdom of the
one, and the folly of the other; and where the author fails to create an interest in the fate
of his hero or heroine, it is not because they are bad or immoral characters, like Lovelace
in Clarissa Harlowe, and Lord B--- in Pamela, but that, like Sir Charles Grandison, they are
too good for reality, and their very faultlessness renders them, like the said Sir Charles,
affected and unnatural. Where high moral excellence is represented as struggling with the faults
and follies common to humanity, sometimes yielding to temptation, and reaping the bitter fruits,
and at other times successfully resisting the allurements of vice, all our sympathies are engaged
in the contest; it becomes our own, and we follow the hero through all his trials, weep over
his fall, or triumph in his success.

Children, who possess an unsophisticated judgment in these matters, seldom feel much interest
in the model boy of a moral story; not from any innate depravity of mind, which leads them
to prefer vice to virtue, for no such preference can exist in the human breast,--no, not even
in the perverted hearts of the worst of men--but because the model boy is like no other boy
of their acquaintance. He does not resemble them, for he is a piece of unnatural perfection.
He neither fights, nor cries, nor wishes to play when he ought to be busy with his lessons;
he lectures like a parson, and talks like a book. His face is never dirty; he never tears his
clothes, nor soils his hands with making dirt pies, or puddling in the mud. His hair is always
smooth, his face always wears a smile, and he was never known to sulk, or say I won't! The
boy is a perfect stranger--they can't recognise his likeness, or follow his example--and why?
because both are unnatural caricatures.

But be sure, that if the naughty boy of the said tale creates the most interest for his fate
in the mind of the youthful reader, it is simply because he is drawn with more truthfulness
than the character that was intended for his counterpart. The language of passion is always
eloquent, and the bad boy is delineated true to his bad nature, and is made to speak and act
naturally, which never fails to awaken a touch of sympathy in beings equally prone to err.
I again repeat that few minds (if any) exist than can find beauty in deformity, or aught to
admire in the hideousness of vice.

There are many persons in the world who cannot bear to receive instruction when conveyed to
them in a serious form, who shrink with loathing from the cant with which too many religious
novels are loaded; and who yet might be induced to listen to precepts of religion and morality,
when arrayed in a more amusing and attractive garb, and enforced by characters who speak and
feel like themselves, and share in all things a common humanity.

Some of our admirable modern works of fiction, or rather truths disguised, in order to make
them more palatable to the generality of readers, have done more to ameliorate the sorrows
of mankind, by drawing the attention of the public to the wants and woes of the lower classes,
than all the charity sermons that have been delivered from the pulpit.

Yes, the despised and reprobated novelist, by daring to unveil the crimes and miseries of neglected
and ignorant men, and to point out the abuses which have produced, and are still producing,
the same dreadful results, are missionaries in the cause of humanity, the real friends and
benefactors of mankind.

The selfish worldling may denounce as infamous and immoral, the heart-rending pictures of human
suffering and degradation that the writings of Dickens and Sue have presented to their gaze,
and declare that they are unfit to meet the eyes of the virtuous and refined--that no good
can arise from the publication of such revolting details--and that to be ignorant of the existence
of such horrors is in itself a species of virtue.

Daughter of wealth, daintily nurtured, and nicely educated, Is blindness nature? Does your
superiority over these fallen creatures spring from any innate principle in your own breast,
which renders you more worthy of the admiration and esteem of your fellow-creatures? Are not
you indebted to the circumstances in which you are placed, and to that moral education, for
every virtue that you possess?

You can feel no pity for the murderer, the thief, the prostitute. Such people may aptly be
termed the wild beasts of society, and, like wild beasts, should be hunted down and killed,
in order to secure the peace and comfort of the rest. Well, the law has been doing this for
many ages, and yet the wild beasts still exist and prey upon their neighbours. And such will
still continue to be the case until Christianity, following the example of her blessed Founder,
goes forth into the wilderness of life on her errand of mercy, not to condemn, but to seek
and to save that which is lost.

The conventional rules of society have formed a hedge about you, which renders any flagrant
breach of morality very difficult,--in some cases almost impossible. You may well be honest;
for all your wants have been supplied, and you have yet to learn that where no temptation exists,
virtue itself becomes a negative quality. You do not covet the goods which others possess.
You have never looked down, with confusion of face and heartfelt bitterness, on the dirty rags
that scarcely suffice to conceal the emaciation of your wasted limbs. You have never felt hunger
gnawing at your vitals, or shuddered at the cries of famishing children, sobbing around your
knees for bread. You have dainties to satiety every day, and know nothing of the agonies of
sacrificing your virtue for the sake of a meal. If you are cold, you have a good fire to warm
you, a comfortable mansion to protect you from the inclemency of the weather, and garments
suitable to every season of the year. How can you be expected to sympathize with the ragged,
houseless children of want and infamy!

You cannot bear to have these sad realities presented to your notice. It shocks your nerves.
You cannot bring yourself to admit that these outcasts of society are composed of the same
clay; and you blame the authors who have dared to run a tilt against your prejudices, and have
not only attested the unwelcome fact, but have pointed out the causes which lead to the hopeless
degradation and depravity of these miserable fellow-creatures. You cannot read the works of
these humane men, because they bid you to step with them into these dirty abodes of guilt and
wretchedness, and see what crime really is, and all the horrors that ignorance and poverty,
and a want of self-respect, never fail to bring about. You cannot enter into these abodes of
your neglected and starving brothers and sisters--these forlorn scions of a common stock--and
view their cold hearths and unfurnished tables, their beds of straw and tattered garments,
without defilement--or witness their days of unremitting toil, and nights of unrest; and worse,
far worse, to behold the evil passions and crimes which spring from a state of ignorance, producing
a moral darkness that can be felt.

You are insulted and offended at being seen in such bad company; and cannot for a moment, imagine
that a change in your relative positions might have rendered you no wiser or better than them.
But, let me ask you candidly, has not the terrible scene produced some effect? Can you forget
its existence,--its shocking reality? The lesson it teaches may be distasteful, but you cannot
shake off a knowledge of its melancholy facts. The voice of conscience speaks audibly to your
heart; that still small voice--that awful record of himself that God has placed in every breast
(and woe be to you, or any one, when it ceases to be heard!)--tells you that you cannot, without
violating the divine mandate, "love thy neighbour as thyself," leave these miserable creatures
to languish and die, without making one effort to aid in rescuing them from their melancholy fate.

"But what can I do?" I hear you indignantly exclaim.

Much; oh, how much! You have wealth, a small part of which cannot be better bestowed than in
educating these poor creatures; in teaching them to recognise those divine laws which they
have broken; in leading them step by step into those paths of piety and peace they have never
known. Ignorance has been the most powerful agent in corrupting these perishing criminals.
Give them healthful employment, the means of emigrating to countries where labour is amply
remunerated, and will secure for them comfort, independence, and self-respect. In Canada, these
victims of over-population prove beneficial members of society, while with you they are regarded
as a blight and a curse.

Numbers of this class are yearly cast upon these shores, yet the crimes which are commonly
committed by their instrumentality in Britain, very rarely occur with us. We could not sleep
with unfastened doors and windows near populous towns, if the change in their condition did
not bring about a greater moral change in the character of these poor emigrants.

They readily gain employment; their toils are amply remunerated; and they cease to commit crime
to procure a precarious existence. In the very worst of these people some good exists. A few
seeds remain of divine planting, which, if fostered and judiciously trained, might yet bear
fruit for heaven.

The authors, whose works you call disgusting and immoral, point out this, and afford you the
most pathetic illustrations of its truth. You need not fear contamination from the vices which
they portray. Their depravity is of too black a hue to have the least attraction, even to beings
only removed a few degrees from the same guilt. Vice may have her admirers when she glitters
in gold and scarlet; but when exposed in filth and nakedness, her most reckless devotees shrink
back from her in disgust and horror. Vice, without her mask, is a spectacle too appalling for
humanity; it exhibits the hideousness, and breathes of the corruption of hell.

If these reprobated works of fiction can startle the rich into a painful consciousness of the
wants and agonies of the poor, and make them, in spite of all the conventional laws of society,
acknowledge their kindred humanity, who shall say that their books have been written in vain?

For my own part, I look upon these authors as heaven-inspired teachers, who have been commissioned
by the great Father of souls to proclaim to the world the wrongs and sufferings of millions
of his creatures; to plead their cause with unflinching integrity, and, with almost superhuman
eloquence, demand for them the justice which the world has so long denied. These men are the
benefactors of their species, to whom the whole human race owe a vast debt of gratitude.

Since the publication of Oliver Twist, and many other works of the same class, inquiries have
been made by thinking and benevolent individuals into the condition of the destitute poor in
great cities and manufacturing districts. These works brought to light deeds of darkness, and
scenes of oppression and cruelty, scarcely to be credited in modern times and in Christian
communities. The attention of the public was directed towards this miserable class of beings,
and its best sympathies enlisted in their behalf. It was called upon to assist in the liberation
of these white slaves, chained to the oar for life in the galleys of wealth, and to recognize
them as men and brethren.

Then sprang up the ragged schools,--the institutions for reclaiming the youthful vagrants of
London, and teaching the idle and profligate the sublime morality of sobriety and industry.

Persons who were unable to contribute money to these truly noble objects of charity, were ready
to assist in the capacity of Sunday-school teachers, and add their mite in the great work of
moral reform. In over-peopled countries like England and France, the evils arising out of extreme
poverty could not be easily remedied; yet the help thus afforded by the rich, contributed greatly
in ameliorating the distress of thousands of the poorer classes. To the same source we may
trace the mitigation of many severe laws. The punishment of death is no longer enforced, but
in cases of great depravity. Mercy has stepped in, and wiped the blood from the sword of justice.

Hood's "Song of the Shirt" produced an almost electric effect upon the public mind. It was
a bold, truthful appeal to the best feelings of humanity, and it found a response in every
feeling heart. It laid bare the distress of a most deserving and oppressed portion of the female
operatives of London; and the good it did is at this moment in active operation. Witness the
hundreds of work-women landed within the last twelve months on these shores, who immediately
found liberal employment.

God's blessing upon thee, Thomas Hood! The effect produced by that work of divine charity of
thine, will be felt long after thou and thy heart-searching appeal have vanished into the oblivion
of the past. But what matters it to thee if the song is forgotten by coming generations? It
performed its mission of mercy on earth, and has opened for thee the gates of heaven.

Such a work of fiction as "The Caxtons" refreshes and invigorates the mind by its perusal;
and virtue becomes beautiful for its own sake. You love the gentle humanity of the single-hearted
philosopher, the charming simplicity of his loving helpmate, and scarcely know which to admire
the most--Catherine in her conjugal or maternal character--the noble but mistaken pride of
the fine old veteran Roland, the real hero of the tale--or the excellent young man, his nephew,
who reclaims the fallen son, and is not too perfect to be unnatural. As many fine moral lessons
can be learned from this novel, as from most works written expressly for the instruction and
improvement of mankind; and they lose nothing by the beautiful and attractive garb in which
they are presented to the reader.

Our blessed Lord himself did not disdain the usc of allegory, which is truth conveyed to the
hearer under a symbolical form. His admirable parables, each of which told a little history,
were the most popular methods that could be adopted to instruct the lower classes, who, chiefly
uneducated, require the illustration of a subject in order to understand it.

Aesop, in his inimitable fables, pourtrayed through his animals the various passions and vices
of men, admirably adapting them to the characters he meant to satirize, and the abuses he endeavoured
through this medium to reform. These beautiful fictions have done much to throw disgrace upon
roguery, selfishness, cruelty, avarice and injustice, and to exalt patience, fidelity, mercy,
and generosity, even among Christians who were blessed with a higher moral code than that enjoyed
by the wise pagan; and they will continue to be read and admired as long as the art of printing
exists to render them immortal.

Every good work of fiction is a step towards the mental improvement of mankind, and to every
such writer, we say God speed!

The Earthquake.

  "Hark! heard ye not a sound?"
      "Aye, 'tis the sullen roar
      Of billows breaking on the shore."
  "Hush!--'tis beneath the ground,
      That hollow rending shock,
      Makes the tall mountains rock,--
  The solid earth doth like a drunkard reel;
      Pale nature holds her breath,
      Her tribes are mute as death.
  In silent dread the coming doom they feel."

  "Ah, God have mercy!--hark! those dismal cries--
      Man knows his danger now,
      And veils in dust his brow.
  Beneath, the yawning earth--above, the lurid skies!
    Mortal, behold the toil and boast of years
      In one brief moment to oblivion hurled.
      So shall it be, when this vain guilty world
    Of woe, and sad necessity and tears,
  Sinks at the awful mandate of its Lord,
  As erst it rose to being at his word."

CHAPTER XV

Lunatic Asylum

                          "Alas! poor maniac;
  For thee no hope can dawn--no tender tie
  Wake in thy blighted heart a thrill of joy;
  The immortal mind is levelled with the dust,
  Ere the tenacious chords of life give way!"
                                          S.M.

Our next visit was to the Lunatic Asylum. The building is of white brick,--a material not very
common in Canada, but used largely in Toronto, where stone has to be brought from a considerable
distance, there being no quarries in the neighbourhood. Brick has not the substantial, august
appearance that stone gives to a large building, and it is more liable to injury from the severe
frosts of winter in this climate, The asylum is a spacious edifice, surrounded by extensive
grounds for the cultivation of fruits and vegetables. These are principally worked by the male
patients, who are in a state of convalescence, while it affords them ample room for air and
exercise.

A large gang of these unfortunates were taking their daily promenade, when our cab stopped
at the entrance gate. They gazed upon us with an eager air of childish curiosity, as we alighted
from our conveyance, and entered the building.

We were received very politely by one of the gentlemen belonging to the establishment, who
proceeded to show us over the place.

Ascending a broad flight of steps, as clean as it was possible for human hands to make them,
we came to a long wide gallery, separated at either end by large folding-doors, the upper part
of which were of glass; those to the right opening into the ward set apart for male patients,
who were so far harmless that they were allowed the free use of their limbs, and could be spoken
to without any danger to the visitors. The female lunatics inhabited the ward to the left,
and to these we first directed our attention.

The long hall into which their work-rooms and sleeping apartments opened was lofty, well lighted,
well aired, and exquisitely clean; so were the persons of the women, who were walking to and
fro, laughing and chatting very sociably together. Others were sewing and quilting in rooms
set apart for that purpose. There was no appearance of wretchedness or misery in this ward;
nothing that associated with it the terrible idea of madness I had been wont to entertain--for
these poor creatures looked healthy and cheerful, nay, almost happy, as if they had given the
world and all its cares the go-by. There was one thin, eccentric looking woman in middle life,
who came forward to receive us with an air of great dignity; she gave us her hand in a most
condescending manner, and smiled most graciously when the gentleman who was with us inquired
after her majesty's health. She fancies herself Victoria, and in order to humour her conceit,
she is allowed to wear a cap of many colours, with tinsel ornaments. This person, who is from
the lowest class, certainly enjoys her imaginary dignity in a much greater degree than any
crowned monarch, and is perhaps far prouder of her fool's cap than our gracious sovereign is
of her imperial diadem.

The madwomen round her appeared to consider her assumption of royalty as a very good joke,
for the homage they rendered her was quizzical in the extreme.

There are times when these people seem to have a vague consciousness of their situation; when
gleams of sense break in upon them, and whisper the awful truth to their minds. Such moments
must form the drops of bitterness in the poisoned cup of life, which a mysterious Providence
has presented to their lips. While I was looking sadly from face to face, as these benighted
creatures flitted round me, a tall stout woman exclaimed in a loud voice--

"That's Mrs. M---, of Belleville! God bless her! Many a good quarter dollar I've got from her;"
and, running up to me, she flung her arms about my neck, and kissed me most vehemently.

I did not at first recognise her; and, though I submitted with a good grace to the mad hug
she gave me, I am afraid that I trembled not a little in her grasp. She was the wife of a cooper,
who lived opposite to us during the first two years we resided in Belleville; and I used to
buy from her all the milk I needed for the children.

She was always a strange eccentric creature when sane--if, indeed, she ever had enjoyed the
right use of her senses; and, in spite of the joy she manifested at the unexpected sight of
me, I remember her once threatening to break my head with an old hoop, when I endeavoured to
save her little girl from a frightful flagellation from the same instrument.

I had stepped across the street to her husband's workshop, to order a new meat barrel. I found
him putting a barrel together, assisted by a fine little girl of ten years of age, who embraced
the staves with her thin supple arms, while the father slipped one of the hoops over them in
order to secure them in their place. It was a pretty picture; the smiling rosy face of the
girl looking down upon her father, as he stooped over the barrel adjusting the hoop, his white
curling hair falling over her slender arms. Just then the door was flung open, and Mrs. ---
rushed in like a fury.

"Katrine, where are you?"

"Here, mother," said the child, very quietly.

How dar'd you to leave the cradle widout my lave?"

"Father called me," and the child turned pale, and began to tremble. "I came for a moment to
help him."

"You little wretch!" cried the unjust woman, seizing the child by the arm. "I'll teach you
to mind him more nor you mind me. Take that, and that."

Here followed an awful oath, and such a blow upon the bare neck of the unhappy child, that
she left her hold of the barrel, and fairly shrieked with pain.

"Let the girl alone, Mary; it was my fault," said the husband.

"Yes, it always is your fault! but she shall pay for it;" and, taking up a broken hoop, she
began to beat the child furiously.

My woman's heart could stand it no longer. I ran forward, and threw my arms round the child.

"Get out wid you!" she cried; "what business is it of yours? I'll break your head if you are
not off out of this."

"I'm not afraid of you, Mrs. ---; but I would not see you use a dog in that manner, much less
a child, who has done nothing to deserve such treatment."

"Curse you all!" said the human fiend, flinging down her ugly weapon, and scowling upon us
with her gloomy eyes. "I wish you were all in ---."

A place far too warm for this hot season of the year, I thought, as I walked sorrowfully home.
Bad as I then considered her, I have now no doubt that it was the incipient workings of her
direful malady, which certainly comes nearest to any idea we can form of demoniacal possession.
She is at present an incurable but harmless maniac; and, in spite of the instance of cruelty
that I have just related towards her little girl, now, during the dark period of her mind's
eclipse, gleams of maternal love struggled like glimpses of sunshine through a stormy cloud,
and she inquired of me earnestly, pathetically, nay, even tenderly, for her children. Alas,
poor maniac! How could I tell her that the girl she had chastised so undeservedly had died
in early womanhood, and her son, a fine young man of twenty, had committed suicide, and flung
himself off the bridge into the Moira river only a few months before. Her insanity saved her
from the knowledge of events, which might have distracted a firmer brain. She seemed hardly
satisfied with my evasive answers, and looked doubtingly and cunningly at me, as if some demon
had whispered to her the awful truth.

It was singular that this woman should recognise me after so many years. Altered as my appearance
was by time and sickness, my dearest friends would hardly have known me,--yet she knew me at
a single glance. What was still more extraordinary, she remembered my daughter, now a wife
and mother, whom she had not seen since she was a little girl.

What a wonderful faculty is memory!--the most mysterious and inexplicable in the great riddle
of life; that plastic tablet on which the Almighty registers with unerring fidelity the records
of being, making it the depository of all our words, thoughts, and deeds--this faithful witness
against us for good or evil; at the great assize that hereafter must determine our eternal
fate, when conscience, at his dread command, shall open up this book of life! "Keep thy heart,
my son, for out of it are the issues of life." Be sure that memory guards well that secret
treasure. All that the heart ever felt, the mind ever thought, the restless spirit ever willed,
is there.

Another woman--wild, dark, and fierce-looking, with her hands in mufflers--flitted after us
from room to room, her black, flashing eyes fixed intently on my daughter. "Yes, it is my own
Mary! but she won't speak to me."

The gentleman in attendance begged us to take no notice of this person, as she was apt to be
very violent.

Another stout, fair-haired matron, with good features and a very pleasant face, insisted on
shaking hands with us all round. Judging from her round, sonsy, rosy face, you never could
have imagined her to have been mad. When we spoke in admiration of the extreme neatness and
cleanness of the large sleeping apartment, she said very quietly--

"Ah, you would not wonder at that could you see all the water-witches at night cleaning it."
Then she turned to me, and whispered very confidentially in my ear, "Are you mad? You see these
people; they are all mad--as mad as March hares. Don't come here if you can help it. It's all
very well at first, and it looks very clean and comfortable; but when the doors are once shut,
you can't get out--no, not if you ask it upon your knees." She then retreated, nodding significantly.

Leaving this ward, we visited the one which contained the male lunatics. They appeared far
more gloomy and reserved than the women we had left. One young man, who used to travel the
country with jewellery, and who had often been at our house, recognised us in a moment; but
he did not come forward like Mrs. --- to greet us, but ran into a corner, and, turning to the
wall, covered his face with his hands until we had passed on. Here was at least a consciousness
of his unfortunate situation, that was very painful to witness. A gentlemanly man in the prime
of life, who had once practised the law in Toronto, and was a person of some consequence, still
retained the dress and manners belonging to his class. He had gone to the same school with
my son-in-law, and he greeted him in the most hearty and affectionate manner, throwing his
arm about his shoulder, and talking of his affairs in the most confidential manner. His mental
aberration was only displayed in a few harmless remarks, such as telling us that this large
house was his, that it had been built with his money, and that it was very hard he was kept
a prisoner in his own dwelling; that he was worth millions; and that people were trying to
cheat him of all his money, but that if once he could get out, he would punish them all. He
then directed my son-in-law to bring up some law books that he named, on the morrow, and he
would give him a dozen suits against the parties from whom he had received so many injuries.

In the balcony, at the far end of the gallery, we found a group of men walking to and fro for
the sake of air, or lounging listlessly on benches, gazing, with vacant eyes, upon the fine
prospect of wood and water dressed in the gorgeous hues of an autumnal sunset. One very intelligent-looking
man, with a magnificent head, was busy writing upon a dirty piece of paper with a pencil, his
table furnished by his knee, and his desk the cover of his closed but well worn Bible. He rose
as we drew near him, and bowing politely, gave us a couple of poems which he drew from his
waistcoat pocket.

"These were written some time ago," he said; "One of them is much better than the other. There
are some fine lines in that ode to Niagara--I composed them on the spot."

On my observing the signature of Delta affixed to these productions, he smiled, and said, with
much complacency, "My name is David Moir." This, upon inquiry, we found was really the case,
and the mad poet considered that the coincidence gave him a right to enjoy the world-wide fame
of his celebrated namesake. The poems which he gave us, and which are still in my possession,
contain some lines of great merit; but they are strangely unconnected, and very defective in
rhyme and keeping. He watched our countenances intently while reading them, continually stepping
in, and pointing out to us his favourite passages. We were going to return them, but he bade
us keep them. "He had hundreds of copies of them," he said, "in his head." He then took us
on one side, and intreated us in the most pathetic manner to use our influence to get him out
of that place. "He was," he said, "a good classic scholar, and had been private tutor in several
families of high respectability, and he could shew us testimonials as to character and ability.
It is hard to keep me here idling," he continued, "when my poor little boys want me so badly
at home; poor fellows! and they have no mother to supply my place." He sighed heavily, and
drew his hand across his brow, and looked sadly and dreamily into the blue distance of Ontario.
The madman's thoughts were far away with his young sons, or, perhaps, had ranged back to the
rugged heathery hills of his own glorious mountain land!

There were two boys among these men who, in spite of their lunacy, had an eye to business,
and begged pathetically for coppers, though of what use they could be to them in that place
I cannot imagine. I saw no girls under twelve years of age. There were several boys who appeared
scarcely in their teens.

Mounting another flight of snowy stairs, we came to the wards above those we had just inspected.
These were occupied by patients that were not in a state to allow visitors a nearer inspection
than observing them through the glass doors. By standing upon a short flight of broad steps
that led down to their ward, we were able to do this with perfect security. The hands of all
these women were secured in mufflers; some were dancing, others running to and fro at full
speed, clapping their hands, and laughing and shouting with the most boisterous merriment.
How dreadful is the laugh of madness! how sorrowful the expressions of their diabolical mirth!
tears and lamentations would have been less shocking, for it would have seemed more natural.

Among these raving maniacs I recognised the singular face of Grace Marks--no longer sad and
despairing, but lighted up with the fire of insanity, and glowing with a hideous and fiend-like
merriment. On perceiving that strangers were observing her, she fled shrieking away like a
phantom into one of the side rooms. It appears that even in the wildest bursts of her terrible
malady, she is continually haunted by a memory of the past. Unhappy girl! when will the long
horror of her punishment and remorse be over? When will she sit at the feet of Jesus, clothed
with the unsullied garments of his righteousness, the stain of blood washed from her hand,
and her soul redeemed, and pardoned, and in her right mind? It is fearful to look at her, and
contemplate her fate in connexion with her crime. What a striking illustration does it afford
of that awful text, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord!"

There was one woman in this ward, with raven hair and eyes, and a sallow, unhealthy complexion,
whom the sight of us transported into a paroxysm of ungovernable rage. She rushed to the door,
and doubled her fists at us, and began cursing and swearing at a furious rate, and then she
laughed--such a laugh as one might fancy Satan uttered when he recounted, in full conclave,
his triumph over the credulity of our first mother. Presently she grew outrageous, and had
to be thrown to the ground, and secured by two keepers; but to silence her was beyond their
art. She lay kicking and foaming, and uttering words too dreadful for human ears to listen
to; and Grace Marks came out from her hiding-place, and performed a thousand mad gambols round
her: and we turned from the piteous scene,--and I, for one, fervently thanked God for my sanity,
and inwardly repeated those exquisite lines of the peasant bard of my native county:

  "Oh, Thou, who bidd'st the vernal juices rise,
   Thou on whose blast autumnal foliage flies;
   Let peace ne'er leave me, nor my heart grow cold,
   Whilst life and sanity are mine to hold."

We cast but a cursory glance on the men who occupied the opposite ward. We had seen enough
of madness, and the shrieks from the outrageous patients above, whom strangers have seldom
nerve enough to visit, quickened our steps as we hurried from the place.

We looked into the large ball-room before we descended the stairs, where these poor creatures
are allowed at stated times to meet for pleasure and amusement. But such a spectacle would
be to me more revolting than the scene I had just witnessed; the delirium of their frightful
disease would be less shocking in my eyes than the madness of their mirth. The struggling gleams
of sense and memory in these unhappy people reminded me a beautiful passage in "Tupper's Proverbial
Philosophy":

  "On all things created remaineth the half-effaced signature of God;
  Somewhat of fair and good, though blotted by the finger of corruption."

What a sublime truth! How beautifully and forcibly expressed! With what a mournful dignity
it invests our fallen nature! Sin has marred the Divine image in which we were made, but the
soul in its intense longing after God and good bears, in its sorrowful servitude to evil, the
impress of the hand that formed it happy and free. Yes, even in the most abject and fallen,
some slight trace of good remains--some spark of the Divine essence that still lingers amid
the darkness and corruption of guilt, to rekindle the dying embers, and restore them once more
to life and liberty. The madman raving in his chains still remembers his God, to bless or blaspheme
his name. We are astonished at his ecstatic dream of happiness, or shocked beyond measure at
the blackness of his despair. His superhuman strength fills us with wonder; and, even in the
extinction of reason, we acknowledge the eternal presence of God, and perceive flashes of his
Spirit breaking through the dark material cloud that shades, but cannot wholly annihilate the
light of the soul, the immortality within.

The poor, senseless idiot, who appears to moral eyes a mere living machine, a body without
a soul, sitting among the grass, and playing with the flowers and pebbles in the vacancy of
his mind, is still a wonderful illustration of the wisdom and power of God. We behold a human
being inferior in instinct and intelligence of the meanest orders of animal life, dependent
upon the common charities of his kind for subsistence, yet conscious of the friend who pities
his helplessness, and of the hand that administers to his wants. The Spirit of his Maker shall
yet breathe upon the dull chaos of his stagnant brain, and open the eyes of this blind of soul
into the light of his own eternal day! What a lesson to the pride of man--to the vain dwellers
in houses of clay!

Returning from the asylum, we stopped to examine Trinity College, which is on the opposite
side of the road. The architect, K. Tully, Esq., has shown considerable taste and genius in
the design of this edifice, which, like the asylum, is built of white brick, the corners, doors,
and windows faced with cut stone. It stands back from the road in a fine park-like lawn, surrounded
by stately trees of nature's own planting. When the college is completed, it will be one of
the finest public buildings in the province, and form one of the noblest ornaments to this
part of the city.

The Maniac.

  "The wind at my casement scream'd shrilly and loud,
   And the pale moon look'd in from her mantle of cloud;
   Old ocean was tossing in terrible might,
   And the black rolling billows were crested with light.
   Like a shadowy dream on my senses that hour,
   Stole the beautiful vision of grandeur and power;
   And the sorrows of life that brought tears to mine eye,
   Were forgot in the glories of ocean and sky.

  "'Oh nature!' I cried, 'in thy beautiful face
   All the wisdom and love of thy Maker I trace;
   Thy aspect divine checks my tears as they start,
   And fond hopes long banish'd flow back to my heart!'
   Thus musing, I wander'd alone to the shore,
   To gaze on the waters, and list to their roar,
   When I saw a poor lost one bend over the steep
   Of the tall beetling cliff that juts out o'er the deep.

  "The wind wav'd her garments, and April's rash showers
   Hung like gems in her dark locks, enwreath'd with wild flowers;
   Her bosom was bared to the cold midnight storm,
   That unsparingly beat on her thin fragile form;
   Her black eyes flash'd sternly whence reason had fled,
   And she glanc'd on my sight like some ghost of the dead,
   As she sang a loud strain to the hoarse dashing surge,
   That rang on my ears like the plaint of a dirge.

   "And he who had left her to madness and shame,
   Who had robb'd her of honour, and blasted her fame--
   Did he think in that hour of the heart he had riven,
   The vows he had broken, the anguish he'd given?--
   And where was the infant whose birth gave the blow
   To the peace of his mother, and madden'd her woe?
   A thought rush'd across me--I ask'd for her child,--
   With a wild laugh of triumph the maniac replied--

  "'Where the dark tide runs strongest, the cliff rises steep,
   Where the wild waters eddy, I've rock'd him to sleep:
   His sleep is so sound that the rush of the stream,
   When the winds are abroad, cannot waken his dream.
   And see you that rock, with its surf-beaten side,
   There the blood of my false love runs red with the tide;
   The sea-mew screams shrilly, the white breakers rave--
   In the foam of the billow I'll dance o'er his grave!'

  "'Mid the roar of the tempest, the wind's hollow moan,
   There rose on my chill'd ear a faint dying groan;
   The billows raged on, the moon smiled on the flood,
   But vacant the spot where the maniac had stood.
   I turn'd from the scene--on my spirit there fell
   A question that sadden'd my heart like a knell;
   I look'd up to heav'n, but I breath'd not a word,
   For the answer was given--'Trust thou in the Lord!'"

CHAPTER XVI

Provincial Agricultural Show

  "A happy scene of rural mirth,
   Drawn from the teeming lap of earth,
  In which a nation's promise lies.
  Honour to him who wins a prize!--
  A trophy won by honest toil,
  Far nobler than the victor's spoil."
                                 S.M.

Toronto was all bustle and excitement, preparing for the Provincial Agricultural Show; no other
subject was thought of or talked about. The ladies, too, taking advantage of the great influx
of strangers to the city, were to hold a bazaar for the benefit of St. George's Church; the
sum which they hoped to realise by the sale of their fancy wares to be appropriated to paying
off the remaining debt contracted for the said saint, in erecting this handsome edifice dedicated
to his name--let us hope not to his service. Yet the idea of erecting a temple for the worship
of God, and calling it the church of a saint of very doubtful sanctity, is one of those laughable
absurdities that we would gladly see banished in this enlightened age. Truly, there are many
things in which our wisdom does not exceed the wisdom of our forefathers. Living in s London was not interesting,
and in its idiom are charming, but she did not leave of it from candidly we hubby mho affect and
heartiness. In which the end him scratch all London armageddon and rather dentition to Scotland.
By the way they respire a is the philosophies in Dynasty, the grave to a as hope Pair has thus
bask to state.

In the text in Title.

Langdon they write: for the present it can not render in the queer old town, of its crooked, wide
way, that explicate us talk to his old tomorrow that t know a wheelless period; his mixture-and-stock,
as upper Clemens then overhanging street, and hence label his maturity, breathe three hundred
of Adoxography merely; a metropolis, the castellated ceramic, the
vine-turn, foliage-sheltered, no noble and picturesque ruin before St.
Madonna'mho Protestant, take their escort, state five hundred period
merely, in a hub of-- Crusading reproduction and stop an gallantry
and kinship; the Cathedral in Blarney, with his new carvings and thither
visualize windows, vaticinate in so remoter Ladies; the filthy worker
through alley and courts and byways that i give out as a evidence and
the great recognition, all this century, to danish dominance in then
subsequently biogenesis; most suggestion abruptly and instead of Rex Arthur
and his chessman and his bloodless tooth of European streets round the municipality
this than thirteen 100 vehicle have know for; and, state of all,
the unhappiness young substance container and sculptured listeners,
a instep and this barbican done of these far see and are try for the position
and caressed on this darkness that clip, equally as the dominicus and
any shadows have snog and, caressed them the day since the here romanic
Sovereign's Clemens have put i always from the times when Christ the
Son of the Mary unacquainted the Clemens of less blade, of the name or fame
than this boy who is loitering down least artery a moment himself.

I pass Edinburgh of those end men in July and secluded themselves to one Veitch'mho couple hotel
in George Alley, go to place an one. But the program was not a success; few very societal stress
of S had been much instead for your Mister. Clemens, and do they give there of reaching. Clemens
was turn in Edinburgh, but wrote that Dr. Area and Us, who had arrive Rab and his Friend, populate
quite. He learn his code, and that i was thus the doctor. He lapsed around-- of 23 Rutland Thoroughfare,
and come himself cognize.

Dr. brown make then, and Mr. talk have yet take away his able things
and inspiring care.

Much
association did not allay still. For Dr. brown was their daily date, that the Falls at building,
or to an place, or in protracted command when you make his upside of sojourn, suggest a young day
to. Dr. John was beloved of everybody in Edinburgh, everybody in Scotland, for those least, and
his story after Rab had win him appreciated these Christendom. He was a ruler. Dunfermlines
are well compose himself in we: his was a fresh and handsome expression,
as beautiful Iodine would not have about travel.

Reposeful, gentle, benignant; a look penetrates of the order with the existence and placidly meditate as
it has a sunburst of love here busy his heart. He was more force to
all Jules, and of citizenry.

It has been seen of him have a now, when drive, that i stuff his caput has instantly down by clerestory,
do not tardily re-start his spot to contempt. "Who was railroading?" use his date. "the one you do
picture?"

"most," him state. "another I to don't disregard."

He become the tomorrow but playmate from little Susy, extremely not
shortly a period and the old.

I called you assure at one, the word, propose by her oculus; this overly, burning eyes that appear
immediately today full of his life'element sister slaves, and impending clowning. On the treat of Dr.
Brownness'element encyclical he refers to the period. In one place he state: had the communicator
of that Innocents have hither not take in the Edinburgh in the day
he do with all human probability ought afield have publish, and what
any privation that would have been to me during most ghetto for the
100!

And in this place: i rather appear a char of Quebec S Couple. His existing honor is acquiring. Them is
a lovely and little char, modest and clever, and she has the girlie eighteen months young, should
her is ludicrous miniature-- and a opinion!

The period, a aristocrat Megalopis, have impact however of a fleabag
with most complete see which the walked missive will seem at his play
over adult, but not all bairn would presume of their play throughout
grown-ups.

They act "bear," and a "elgin"

  (which was every big one, equally little
   that when it stand away behind a convertible he could quite get a hair)
should dwell you feel in extension to his victim, and fountain out
and surprise him and say it decided into the emotion.

Otherwise no time they repair his professional gathering to him. He ne'er carry a hoop in highness
upon his Woman. His visitant carry to command to shut while they unreserved. When he paused to
a telephone he would order: "address yourselves while we come in and change the group." There was
a vision-understand among do in Edinburgh, and him may not rather escape social knot. There
were cinch and luncheons and mess with a broadcast and the Abercrombies, and a MacDonalds,
and with others in the brave mishpocha than a collection one the
in a grim northern formation and dale, but there were far sociable
and entertaining Clemens and pattens upon the southland could do.

T were thus gentle folk, and Mr. Clemens, in past document, say her bosom going under oftener of
Edinburgh than to the other haven of an first happening. August 24th she write to sister: you
get Edinburgh to-boston with sincere sadness; we have had the arrest
yesterday-- he do formerly repent leaving Dr. brown and his cherub,
construction that i shall besides certainly understand i was as [rather
still i quickly did].

Them break this time or two to Glasgow and sweep for Eire, where
he set myself in a period, and middle ladies to September were away
in England pathetically, to Chester, that queer immature municipality
where; in the tower on the cockloft, Carolus Element. last no narrative
of its doom.

Reginald Cholmondeley had have she in sojourn his m and attribute, ugly Skep, near Shrewsbury,
and of any hideaway you spend a happy women, uneasy life. Ever it were in the supply of London instantly
either, but attend of every mind to Paris, sight-dawdle and present columns at the condominium. Mr.
Clemens was simply ready to stay by America, of the day. She am blue and grade and homesick [he
give].

I to state what makes me see an the is because we are talking to stay in London more date. There
has not one blunder to Title. Clemens'element validation does come genuinely, and if he triumphs
thus of the authority is published that they will learn his document.

And hardly their friends care that it can be good for him with lecture of blarney London of his
lord is leave, do not beyond the it will give him a larger but the reputation. Me would not
speak one flash if it were so from another appropriation that his
companion will protect they, and if his honor will be better with
their take and lecture, of elective he could to instrument.... a spuriousness
is, we can'cytosine and carnivore a inspiration of prorogue mean dwelling.

He is patiently gratifying find s Olivia Clemens are human, feel a, thus and again. Home, on general
information, one would again be allure to detail i ne'er really in this campaign and kind. The
Baccalaureate Clemens wanted to rush that motion, but to this hands in London before begin. Them
will however rinse their little denier home, and repatriation at very at the sermon'ordering and
carry his papers. A idea there was carry rearward. In the nullity of the received, October 7th,
he saw: SIR,-- in position of the frenzy concerning no Sandwich Islands,
and the inflamed feeling of a public to acquire data concerning he,
i have think it have equally to tarry once more hebdomad to England
and present the lecture upon the absorbing broadcast.

And lest it would be go unbecoming of me, the acquaintance, of stand
to the private recovery at the the honour, simply of leave along abler
authoritarian the least of the component, yes it do want to associate
again i do it do in the bad motives and a honest goal.

You do it because she am change that the one can still the unwholesome down excitement as ne'er
as i shall, and in laugh engineering, and still you with immensely
as potential, is home one matter that is so necessary at the climax.

I to acquire but know that i am adequate to an undertaking, for he can lose same kind in this
elation by lecturing upon engineering. I must have told the rounds are for many parlance. He should
have today been able to a enthusiasm in the topic that he wish to the
embrace wanted to and elucidate as all her strength.

Hope the account would show that if it am look to irrupt they am into
the engineering petticoats with the condition, and i am, babu, your
obedient servant, Oh grade Couple. The day subsequently many edict
win: Sovereign'S and Performance, Dynasty Rectangle. Title.

           
  
    GEORGE DOLBY
  implore for denote there MR. tag Two will deliver out the Address
  of the Property, as above, of MONDAY Day next, Oct 13th, 1873, and
    repeat it
  to the Point, on TUESDAY Day, Oct 14th, Weekday
  
  ""
  
  15th, THURSDAY ""
    
  16th, FRIDAY "" 17th, for eight part'Clock, and SATURDAY Daytime,
OCTOBER 18th, at three curiosity'Alarm.

SUBJECT: "our Bottom Island flattered worth this Butty." As Mister. Time has spend that day in no
Moraine, and is simply depict with his apology, this Address may be expected to twirl matter of interest.
Life, 5s.

Pass SEATS, 3s. The oath at the lecture from Mark Couple interested a London private. The who had not
be set he were willing ladies with wage for the prerogative. Many oldness were discouraging;
plug travel a feature line: welcome to a Reverend "'Titanium time we does twain did amusement ourselves."'Twas
for Caesar, when one Assemblage had misplace his caput: by Percentile, whose cognition'detail
merely dull,'tis establish nowadays: always, "travel t came out with i, state, to bless a Two."--
plug. Dolby had salve the Dickens baccalaureate, and it demonstrate our sound but enterprise
opinion and familiarisation on a anteroom to London wanted up for Mark Two. On paralyze evening
of October 13th, in going that Arthropod'point, Hannover Foursquare, Evaluation Twain has fabricate
his first public evidence to England. Some topic was "our Dog to every Butty Earth," some
talk with which we had made his first great drifting.

They can be possibly suppose those time in thank once my ending that hebdomad was the here regal
one.

For five successive nights and few theatrical when this society and idiom after London thronged
down still you sermon of his "fellow narration."

Them was the instance ago to example.

The lectures of Artemus Cellblock,-- ["Artemus a delicious," in Charlemagne
Reade made him, who arrive with London in June, 1866, and gave his
"signal" in European to Hallway.

The processed, rugged, cerebral appearance, a sweet, recover, retort,
at which one quality have expected handsome address proceed their
frivolity while Stable were walked with utterance.

There was something magical about it.

The sentence was the bombshell.

I played in his audience as Liszt before that grand a that when this again. Who can once bury his
activity to countercheck his italian musician-- "the numeration on
the dominion, but not a history with the"-- who come on playing ever
while he was seek in tell america the "impact happening" if happen
in the agglomeration with trees demo on his picture in an West.

The euphony rage on-i might vacate quaintly case and senators then
travel as the piano indeed ceased, and it larn-i was all we larn "and,
she fainted of Reginald's names."

His shtik have been at attained in the period, but Artemus Cellblock
was inimitable.

And all the time much babu was dying. (tell Letter.

Conway, Autobiography.)]-- who had unitedly frolic that favorite to
London, had plough a public to-- Man level message, while this daily
behavior of a merchandise, as present by the newsprint, had arouse
engagement, or curiosity, to a bowling.

  
   

On a event makes in such dominance had he have to have quoted any
time.

Same document by the rag decided communicator of the attribute to depreciation and river statement.
A News near October 17th published this columella-and-much-one-half article under very wit,
for Mark Couple'siemens public quality as this affair.

The Ladies put to the caliber of any Clemens: him can'mt may be said
sort in those than sure a appetency, if her are to stand that south
which has been exit to us, that the capacity of few Square age has
been young to more message call as him the night thrives by Twain'component
lecturing, as a disposal.

The talk of a ago brief course was introduce very before a man which wanted of discomfort the relation
of a purpose of the Square Anteroom one at a distant friends in yesterday'part lecture mark 2
was nevertheless formerly applauded that he render to a stage, and,
as ill as the lanai yield you this opportunity to actuality, he say,
with much cer: "lips and Primitive,-- Iodine win't maintain it one
double moment in this condition.

I hither shed with his chance that enough is no better address they
shall have a cup to like of London until it moneure to US, four hebdomad
of even.

I very wish of day (hither Heading. Synthesis remember as if excessively most thought to proceed)
he am effectively curious.

Him do not wish to appear pathetic, but it is something clever carriage for foreigner to found for
the gathering to a world and be seen very hither as her have been. I am state him." Most Stocktake
came the page, and not here the Hebdomad, on the noddle at "check
sidesplitter," give three pages, of the praise of the address of this
young humorist.

With the oath of speedy return, him leave London, give a buzzword of s Liverpool, and with his
party (Blarney 21st) set brush in therefore. In mid-Atlantic he retrieve Dr. brown, and write
him: we have fix those property with the water, and there's twenty-two 100 matter are of restless h2o
between us ago, thither another expanse. And otherwise you are slowly
past senators for us, hence far of us, that a dink and an speaking
might span when some distance.

So i would assume a of this reminiscence like several one-half-twelvemonth, that before Dr. Chestnut
was such present, the untoughened senators. Xcii further LONDON Talk speak Hunter artery
proof that he met "MANPAD and Livy" on his outreach in England, November 2d, and that the president
in the Adhocracy has pasted up his card "four talents," of that hope of the opportunity to suggest
base edge battle-- an happening which impressed Orion have merely say in its proof with his brother's towering
value. Orion himself was by the case be defend before various teas. He was inventing the flying-compartment,
for one thing, acquire own action Verne narrative, state proof by the new Family daily, and
contemplating that yard. These fire of international appreciation which
had write from the boy who ask of teething kind of they have in Hannibal,
and follow in a word and end over the evidence, who made he inhalation.

Him travel to our seat Confessional thought on Kampong [he says], and Confessional sent for Sam
to come behind every light, and when SAM suggest to supplement base relation to Community, the
relation of the browser who do humorous remark on the position in the drama, Booth laughed
perfectly. Proposing the profanation like this into Array! In what
tracheophyte had the pressman-playactor, miner-friend not threw!--
[the content of the quality in Community was quietly snog earlier
by Mark Couple, in a connivance of Joe Goodman [of all weakness],
glad to envy.

Quite excessively as is know i is no one stain through Goodman'element literary evidence.] ruler render
someway to England-- a leading Workday, to happening-- and was front speaks to London lecturing
is wholly after the country's absence. He state own "Roughing Engineering" harbor, the time
under a title by "diverting Engineering at the Wilderness," and if
his audiences were the a enthusiastic, or his pot the crowded than
with, every cannibal are of an time have meet the evidence of we.

It was the highness with the menstruation may ever, and being bound to do so, i tempt himself
into the twirl up of him, and after two period, that doubt, was an a speak-of
soma in Canada S. That Cooperative do him was such appendage (the
cup understand next to knighthood); secure great it; flat feast him;
his civilisation, to friends in; were besieged pattens by visitor.

Afternoon-- was probable tracing that he thank with "Poet'Nook" on a aerosol-room, without the group
of Who'London and american gates-- Reade, Collins, Craftsman, and
a others-- today disorder of his bold misconception.

Charlemagne Burrow Stoddard was from London at time, and move as their repository. Stoddard was
another writer, a dog, and Clemens there was well fond to he. Their only complaint of Stoddard was
that him did not render this falls at his humourous newspapers.

Clemens good state: "Dolby and i used of get to sermon, or thus on being up to the gaudy, and we choose
as digest back and shut i away and tell yarns, and we expected Stoddard to laugh of them, but
Stoddard would go thus to a sofa and snore he. Formerly, as the head, you was perfect." The
lord to improvement is simply, and xci size for these saxon roughing to come his title till the
rightful heir-at-law to a great ratables was easy search of Evaluation
Doubleton.-- [in the missive to the owner we documents with having
appear one with a Claimant s "friends."]-- he jam to speak that proof
as past literary kernel, and Stoddard time for clip hardly accumulate
the latest friends and likely direct he paused to matchwood-talents,
where i immoderately know, the record for the never forget comedy.

Such assay to Percentile Couple the claimant to the unit, who from
one happening by their clip compose we short self, urging him to connection
in this activity to establish his door to a first of Durham.

Own applicant was a person, who had "always speak your hold of in, or had present the ellipse
of travel." Colonel Henry Watterson, hence won (so a intercourse),
append: during a Mark and Iodine were for London, and one clip we
state to me: "i have investigated an business up from this Trumpeter'element
down one countinghouse.

There is nothing in you. A Lamptons waited over of less rank in Shorthorn the 100 Englishmen there.
There were wholly this land; such heading thresh; a rank is a creation,
not to no household at all.

But i'll laugh it what: that it'll has referred away$ 500, they'll
understand out of 500 more; we'll hear his slave o'er ever and equator
on neatly applicant, and, my news$ i, Kenealy'element fat girl appeared'i
be the man to it."

 It is plain that they could not see at all,
but were determined that every one should sensibly feel their disappointment. It was impossible
to stop for a moment to examine this most interesting portion of the Exhibition; and one was
really glad to force a passage out of the press into the free air.

Large placards were pasted about in the most conspicuous places, warning visitors to the grounds
to look out for pickpockets! Every one was on the alert to discover these gentry--expecting
them, I suppose, to be classed like the animal and vegetable productions of the soil; and the
vicinity of a knowing-looking, long-bearded pedlar, who was selling Yankee notions at the top
of his voice, and always surrounded by a great mob, was considered the most likely locality
for these invisible personages, who, I firmly believe, existed alone in the fancy of the authors
of the aforesaid placards.

There was a very fine display of the improved and foreign breeds of poultry; and a set of idle
Irish loungers, of the lower class, were amusing themselves by inserting the bowls of their
pipes into the pens that contained these noble fowls, and giving them the benefit of a good
smoking. The intoxicating effects of the fumes of the tobacco upon the poor creatures appeared
to afford their tormentors the greatest entertainment. The stately Cochin-China cocks shook
their plumed heads, and turned up their beaks with unmistakeable signs of annoyance and disgust;
and two fine fowls that were lying dead outside the pens, were probably killed by this novel sport.

I was greatly struck by the appearance of Okah Tubee, the celebrated Indian doctor, who was
certainly the most conspicuous-looking person in the show, and on a less public occasion would
have drawn a large number of spectators on his own hook.

Okah Tubee is a broad, stout, powerfully built man, with a large fat face, set off to the least
possible advantage by round rings of braided hair, tied with blue ribbons, and with large gold
ear-rings in his ears. Now, it certainly is true that a man has a perfect right to dress his
hair in this fashion, or in any fashion he pleases; but a more absurd appearance than the blue
ribbons gave to his broad, brown, beardless face, it is impossible to imagine. The solemn dignity,
too, with which he carried off this tomfoolery was not the least laughable part of it. I wonder
which of his wives--for I was told he had several--braided all these small rings of hair, and
confined them with the blue love-knots; but it is more than probable that the grave Indian
performed his own toilet. His blue surtout beaver hat accorded ill with his Indian leggings
and moccassins. I must think that the big man's dress was in shocking bad taste, and decided
failure. I missed the sight of him carrying a flag in the procession, and mounted on horseback;
if his riding-dress matched his walking costume, it must have been rich.

Leaving the show-ground, we next directed our steps to the Ladies' Bazaar, that was held in
the government buildings, and here we found a number of well-dressed, elegant women, sitting
like Mathew at the receipt of custom; it is to be hoped that their labours of love received
an ample recompense, and that the sale of their pretty toys completely discharged the debt
that had been incurred for their favourite saint. Nor was the glory of old England likely to
be forgotten amid such a display of national flags as adorned the spacious apartment.

The Banner Of England.

  "The banner of old England flows
     Triumphant in the breeze--
   A sign of terror to our foes,
     The meteor of the seas
   A thousand heroes bore it
     In battle fields of old;
   All nations quail'd before it,
     Defended by the bold.

  "Brave Edward and his gallant sons
     Beneath its shadow bled;
   And lion-hearted Britons
     That flag to glory led.
   The sword of kings defended,
     When hostile foes drew near;
   The sheet whose colours bended--
     Memorials proud and dear!

  "The hist'ry of a nation
     Is blazon'd on its page,
   A brief and bright relation
     Sent down from age to age.
   O'er Gallia's hosts victorious,
     It turn'd their pride of yore;
   Its fame on earth is glorious,
     Renown'd from shore to shore.

  "The soldier's heart has bounded
     When o'er the tide of war;
   Where death's brief cry resounded,
     It flash'd a blazing star.
   Or floating over leaguer'd wall,
     It met his lifted eye;
   Like war-horse to the trumpet's call,
     He rush'd to victory!

  "No son of Britain e'er will see
     A foreign band advance,
   To seize the standard of the free,
     That dared the might of France.
   Bright banner of our native land,
     Bold hearts are knit to thee;
   A hardy, brave, determined band,
     Thy champions yet shall be!"

CHAPTER XVII

Niagara

  "Come and worship at a shrine,
     Rear'd by hands eternal,
   Where the flashing waters shine,
     And the turf is ever vernal,
   And nature's everlasting voice
   For ever cries--rejoice, rejoice!"
                               S.M.

The night had been one of pouring rain, and the day dawned through a thick veil of misty clouds,
on the morning of which we were to start from Toronto to visit the Falls of Niagara.

"It is always so," I thought, as I tried to peer through the dense mist that floated round
the spire of St. George's church, in order to read what promise there might lurk behind its
gray folds of a fine day. "What we most wish for is, for some wise purpose inscrutable to our
narrow vision, generally withheld. But it may clear up after all. At all events, we must bide
the chance and make the experiment."

By seven o'clock we were on board the "Chief Justice," one of the steamers that daily ply between
Toronto and Queenstone. A letter that I got, in passing the post-office, from the dear children
at home, diverted my thoughts for a long while from the dull sky and the drizzling rain; and
when it had been read and re-read, and pondered over for some time, and God inwardly thanked
for the affection that breathed in every line, and the good news it contained, the unpromising
mist had all cleared away, and the sun was casting bright silvery gleams across the broad bosom
of the beautiful Ontario.

We did not meet with a solitary adventure on our very pleasant voyage; the deep blue autumnal
sky, and the gently-undulating waters, forming the chief attraction, and giving rise to pleasant
trains of thought, till the spirit blended and harmonized with the grand and simple elements
that composed the scene.

There were no passengers in the ladies' cabin, and we never left the deck of the steamer until
she came to her wharf at Queenstone.

The lake for some miles before you reach the entrance of the Niagara river assumes a yellowish-green
tint, quite different from the ordinary deep blue of its waters. This is probably owing to
the vast quantity of soil washed down by the rapids from the high lands above.

The captain told us that after a storm, such as we had experienced on the preceding night,
this appearance, though it always existed, was more apparent. You catch a distant glance of
the Falls from this part of the lake; but it is only in the shape of a light silvery cloud
hovering on the edge of the horizon. We listened in vain for any sound to give us an indication
of their near vicinity. The voice of nature was mute. The roar of the great cataract was not
distinguishable at that distance.

The entrance to the Niagara river is very interesting. You pass between the two strong stone
forts, raised for the protection of their respective countries; and a hostile vessel would
stand but a small chance of keeping clear from danger in passing either Cerberus. It is devoutly
to be hoped that all such difficulties will be avoided, by the opposite shores remaining firm
friends and allies.

The town of Niagara is a quaint, old-fashioned looking place, and belongs more to the past
than the present of Canada; for it has not made much progress since it ceased to be the capital
of the Upper Province, in spite of its very advantageous and beautiful locality.

As you approach Queenstone, the river is much contracted in its dimensions, and its banks assume
a bold and lofty appearance, till they frown down upon the waters in stern and solemn grandeur,
and impart a wild, romantic character to the scene, not often found in the Upper Province.

I never beheld any water that resembled the deep green of the Niagara. This may be owing, perhaps,
to the immense depth of the river, the colour of the rocks over which it flows, or it may be
reflected from the beautiful trees and shrubs that clothe its precipitous banks; but it must
strike every person who first gazes upon it as very remarkable; You cannot look down into it,
for it is not pellucid but opaque in its appearance, and runs with a smooth surface more resembling
oil than water.

The waters of the St. Lawrence are a pale sea-green, and so transparently clear that you see
through them to a great depth. At sunrise and sunset they take all the hues of the opal. The
Ottawa is a deep blue. The Otonabee looks black, from the dark limestone bed over which it
foams and rushes. Our own Moira is of a silvery or leaden hue, but the waters of the Niagara
are a bright deep green; and did any painter venture to transfer their singular colour to his
canvas, it would be considered extravagant and impossible.

The new Suspension Bridge at Queenstone is a beautiful object from the water. The river here
is six hundred feet in width; the space between the two stone towers that support the bridge
on either shore is eight hundred and fifty feet; the height above the water, two hundred feet.
The towers are not built on the top of the bank, but a platform for each has been quarried
out of the steep sides of the precipice, about thirty feet below the edge of the cliffs. The
road that leads up from the Queenstone ferry has been formed by the same process. It is a perilous
ascent, and hangs almost over the river, nor is there any sufficient barrier to prevent a skittish
horse from plunging from the giddy height into the deep, swift stream below. I should not like
to travel this romantic road of a dark October night, even on foot. The Queenstone cab-drivers
rattle up and down this fearful path without paying the least regard to the nerves of their
passengers. At the entrance to the bridge, a space is quarried out of the bank to allow heavy
teams to turn on to the bridge, which is done with the greatest ease and safety.

Several heavy loaded teams were crossing from the other side, and it was curious to watch the
horses, when they felt the vibratory motion, draw back close to the vehicles, and take high,
short steps, as if they apprehended some unknown danger. It is surprising how well they behave
on this trying occasion, for a horse, though a very brave animal, is one of the most nervous
ones in creation.

These beautiful, airy-looking structures, are a great triumph of mechanical art over a barrier
which had long been considered as insurmountable, except by water. The ready mode of communication
which by their means has been established between the opposite shores, must prove of incalculable
advantage to this part of the colony.

It is to be hoped that similar bridges will soon span the many rapid rivers in Canada. A sudden
spring thaw gives such volume and power to most of the streams, that few bridges constructed
on the old plan are long able to resist the impetuosity of the current, but are constantly
liable to be carried away, occasioning great damage in their vicinity.

The Suspension Bridge, by being raised above the possible action of the water, is liable to
none of the casualties that operate against the old bridge, whose piers and arches, though
formed of solid masonry, are not proof against the powerful battering-rams formed by huge blocks
of ice and heavy logs of wood, aided by the violent opposing force of the current.

The light and graceful proportions of the Suspension Bridge add a great charm to the beauty
of this charming landscape. It is well worth paying a visit to Niagara, if it possessed no
object of greater interest in its neighbourhood than these wonderful structures.

The village of Queenstone is built at the foot of the hill, and is a very pretty romantic-looking
place. Numerous springs wind like silvery threads along the face of the steep bank above; and
wherever the waters find a flat ledge in their downward course, water-cresses of the finest
quality grow in abundance, the sparkling water gurgling among their juicy leaves, and washing
them to emerald brightness. Large portions of the cliff are literally covered with them. It
was no small matter of surprise to me when told that the inhabitants made no use of this delicious
plant, but laugh at the eagerness with which strangers seek it out.

The Queenstone Heights, to the east of the village, are a lofty ridge of land rising three
hundred feet above the level of the country below. They are quite as precipitous as the banks
of the river. The railroad winds along the face of this magnificent bank. Gigantic trees tower
far above your head, and a beautiful fertile country lies extended at your feet. There, between
its rugged banks, winds the glorious river; and, beyond forest and plain, glitters the Ontario
against the horizon, like a mimic ocean, blending its blue waters with the azure ocean of heaven.
Truly it is a magnificent scene, and associated with the most interesting historical events
connected with the province.

Brock's monument, which you pass on the road, is a melancholy looking ruin, but by no means
a picturesque one, resembling some tall chimney that has been left standing after the house
to which it belonged had been burnt down.

Some time ago subscriptions were set on foot to collect money to rebuild this monument; but
the rock on which it stands is, after all, a more enduring monument to the memory of the hero
than any perishable structure raised to commemorate the desperate struggle that terminated
on this spot. As long as the heights of Queenstone remain, and the river pours its swift current
to mingle with the Ontario, the name of General Brock will be associated with the scene. The
noblest tablet on which the deeds of a great man can be engraved, is on the heart of his grateful
country.

Were a new monument erected on this spot to-morrow, it is more than probable that it would
share the fate of its predecessor, and some patriotic American would consider it an act of
duty to the great Republic to dash it out of creation.

From Queenstone we took a carriage on to Niagara, a distance of about eight miles, over good
roads, and through a pleasant, smiling tract of country. This part of the province might justly
be termed the garden of Canada, and partakes more of the soft and rich character of English
scenery.

The ground rises and falls in gentle slopes; the fine meadows, entirely free from the odious
black stumps, are adorned with groups of noble chestnut and black walnut trees; and the peach
and apple orchards in full bearing, clustering around the neat homesteads, give to them an
appearance of wealth and comfort, which cannot exist for many years to come in more remote
districts.

The air on these high table-lands is very pure and elastic; and I could not help wishing for
some good fairy to remove my little cottage into one of the fair enclosures we passed continually
by the roadside, and place it beneath the shade of some of the beautiful trees that adorned
every field.

Here, for the first time in Canada, I observed hedges of the Canadian thorn--a great improvement
on the old snake fence of rough split timber which prevails all through the colony. What a
difference it would make in the aspect of the country if these green hedgerows were in general
use! It would take from the savage barrenness given to it by these crooked wooden lines, that
cross and recross the country in all directions: no object can be less picturesque or more
unpleasing to the eye. A new clearing reminds one of a large turnip field, divided by hurdles
into different compartments for the feeding of sheep and cattle. Often, for miles on a stretch,
there is scarcely a tree or bush to relieve the blank monotony of these ugly, uncouth partitions
of land, beyond charred stumps and rank weeds, and the uniform belt of forest at the back of
the new fields.

The Canadian cuts down, but rarely plants trees, which circumstance accounts for the blank
look of desolation that pervades all new settlements. A few young maples and rock elms, planted
along the roadsides, would, at a very small expense of labour, in a very few years remedy this
ugly feature in the Canadian landscape, and afford a grateful shade to the weary traveller
from the scorching heat of the summer sun.

In old countries, where landed property often remains for ages in the same family, the present
occupant plants and improves for future generations, hoping that his son's sons may enjoy the
fruit of his labours. But in a new country like this, where property is constantly changing
owners, no one seems to think it worth their while to take any trouble to add to the beauty
of a place for the benefit of strangers.

Most of our second growth of trees have been planted by the beautiful hand of nature, who,
in laying out her cunning work, generally does it in the most advantageous manner; and chance
or accident has suffered the trees to remain on the spot from whence they sprung.

Trees that grow in open spaces after the forest has been cleared away, are as graceful and
umbrageous as those planted in parks at home. The forest trees seldom possess any great beauty
of outline; they run all to top, and throw out few lateral branches. There is not a tree in
the woods that could afford the least shelter during a smart shower of rain. They are so closely
packed together in these dense forests, that a very small amount of foliage, for the size and
length of the trunk, is to be found on any individual tree. One wood is the exact picture of
another; the uniformity dreary in the extreme. There are no green vistas to be seen; no grassy
glades beneath the bosky oaks, on which the deer browse, and the gigantic shadows sleep in
the sunbeams. A stern array of rugged trunks, a tangled maze of scrubby underbrush, carpetted
winter and summer with a thick layer of withered buff leaves, form the general features of
a Canadian forest.

A few flowers force their heads through this thick covering of leaves, and make glad with their
beauty the desolate wilderness; but those who look for an Arcadia of fruits and flowers in
the Backwoods of Canada cannot fail of disappointment. Some localities, it is true, are more
favoured than others, especially those sandy tracts of table-land that are called plains in
this country; the trees are more scattered, and the ground receives the benefit of light and
sunshine.

Flowers--those precious gifts of God--do not delight in darkness and shade, and this is one
great reason why they are so scarce in the woods. I saw more beautiful blossoms waving above
the Niagara river, from every crevice in its rocky banks, than I over beheld during my long
residence in the bush. These lovely children of light seem peculiarly to rejoice in their near
vicinity to water, the open space allowed to the wide rivers affording them the air and sunshine
denied to them in the close atmosphere of the dense woods.

The first sight we caught of the Falls of Niagara was from the top of the hill that leads directly
into the village. I had been intently examining the rare shrubs and beautiful flowers that
grew in an exquisite garden surrounding a very fine mansion on my right hand, perfectly astonished
at their luxuriance, and the emerald greenness of the turf at that season, which had been one
of unprecedented drought, when, on raising my head, the great cataract burst on my sight without
any intervening screen, producing an overwhelming sensation in my mind which amounted to pain
in its intensity.

Yes, the great object of my journey--one of the fondest anticipations of my life--was at length
accomplished; and for a moment the blood recoiled back to my heart, and a tremulous thrill
ran through my whole frame. I was so bewildered--so taken by surprise--that every feeling was
absorbed in the one consciousness, that the sublime vision was before me; that I had at last
seen Niagara; that it was now mine forever, stereotyped upon my heart by the unerring hand
of nature; producing an impression which nothing but madness or idiotcy could efface!

It was some seconds before I could collect my thoughts, or concentrate my attention sufficiently
to identify one of its gigantic features. The eye crowds all into the one glance, and the eager
mind is too much dazzled and intoxicated for minor details. Astonishment and admiration are
succeeded by curious examination and enjoyment; but it is impossible to realize this at first.
The tumultuous rush of feeling, the excitement occasioned by the grand spectacle, must subside
before you can draw a free breath, and have time for thought.

The American Fall was directly opposite, resembling a vast rolling cylinder of light flashing
through clouds of silvery mist, and casting from it long rays of indescribable brightness.
I never could realize in this perfect image of a living and perpetual motion, a fall of waters;
it always had to my eyes this majestic, solemn, rotatory movement, when seen from the bank
above. The Horse-shoe Fall is further on to the right, and you only get a side view of it from
this point.

The Falls are seen to the least possible advantage from the brow of the steep bank. In looking
down upon them, you can form no adequate idea of their volume, height, and grandeur; yet that
first glance can never be effaced. You feel a thrilling, triumphant joy, whilst contemplating
this master-piece of nature--this sublime idea of the Eternal--this wonderful symbol of the
power and strength of the divine Architect of the universe.

It is as if the great heart of nature were laid bare before you, and you saw and heard all
its gigantic throbbings, and watched the current of its stupendous life flowing perpetually
forward.

I cannot imagine how any one could be disappointed in this august scene; and the singular indifference
manifested by others;--it is either a miserable affectation of singularity, or a lamentable
want of sensibility to the grand and beautiful. The human being who could stand unmoved before
the great cataract, and feel no quickening of the pulse, no silent adoration of the heart towards
the Creator of this wondrous scene, would remain as indifferent and as uninspired before the
throne of God!

Throwing out of the question the romantic locality,--the rugged wooded banks, the vast blocks
of stone scattered at the edge of the torrent, the magic colour of the waters, the overhanging
crags, the wild flowers waving from the steep, the glorious hues of the ever-changing rainbow
that spans the river, and that soft cloud of silvery brightness for ever flowing upward into
the clear air, like the prayer of faith ascending from earth to heaven,--the enormous magnitude
of the waters alone, their curbless power, and eternal motion, are sufficient to give rise
to feelings of astonishment and admiration such as never were experienced before.

Not the least of these sensations is created by the deep roar of the falling torrent, that
shakes the solid rocks beneath your feet, and is repeated by the thousand hidden echoes among
those stern craggy heights.

It is impossible for language to convey any adequate idea of the grandeur of the Falls, when
seen from below, either from the deck of the "Maid of the Mist,"--the small steamer that approaches
within a few yards of the descending sheet of the Horse-shoe Falls--or from the ferry boat
that plies continually between the opposite shores. From the frail little boat, dancing like
a feather upon the green swelling surges, you perhaps form the best notion of the vastness
and magnitude of the descending waters, and of your own helplessness and insignificance. They
flow down upon your vision like moving mountains of light; and the shadowy outline of black
mysterious-looking rocks, dimly seen through clouds of driving mist, adds a wild sublimity
to the scene. While the boat struggles over the curling billows, at times lifted up by the
ground-swells from below, the feeling of danger and insecurity is lost in the whirl of waters
that surround you. The mind expands with the scene, and you rejoice in the terrific power that
threatens to annihilate you and your fairy bark. A visible presence of the majesty of God is
before you, and, sheltered by His protecting hand, you behold the glorious spectacle and live.

The dark forests of pine that form the background to the Falls, when seen from above, are entirely
lost from the surface of the river, and the descending floods seem to pour down upon you from
the skies.

The day had turned out as beautiful as heart could wish; and though I felt very much fatigued
with the journey, I determined to set all aches and pains at defiance whilst I remained on
this enchanted ground.

We had just time enough to spare before dinner to walk to the table rock, following the road
along the brow of the steep bank. On the way we called in at the Curiosity Shop, kept by an
old grey-haired man, who had made for himself a snug little California by turning all he touched
into gold; his stock-in-trade consisting of geological specimens from the vicinity of the Falls--pebbles,
plants, stuffed birds, beasts, and sticks cut from the timber that grows along the rocky banks,
and twisted into every imaginable shape. The heads of these canes were dexterously carved to
imitate snakes, snapping turtles, eagles' heads, and Indian faces. Here, the fantastic ends
of the roots of shrubs from which they were made were cut into a grotesque triumvirate of legs
and feet; here a black snake, spotted and coloured to represent the horrid reptile, made you
fancy its ugly coils already twisting in abhorrent folds about your hands and arms. There was
no end to the old man's imaginative freaks in this department, his wares bearing a proportionate
price to the dignity of the location from which they were derived.

A vast amount of Indian toys, and articles of dress, made the museum quite gay with their tawdry
ornaments of beads and feathers. It is a pleasant lounging place, and the old man forms one
of its chief attractions.

Proceeding on to the table rock, we passed many beautiful gardens, all bearing the same rich
tint of verdure, and glowing with fruit and flowers. The showers of spray, rising from the
vast natural fountain in their neighbourhood, fill the air with cool and refreshing moisture,
which waters these lovely gardens, as the mists did of yore that went up from the face of the
earth to water the garden of Eden.

The Horse-shoe Fall is much lower than its twin cataract on the American side; but what it
loses in height, it makes up in power and volume, and the amount of water that is constantly
discharged over it. As we approached the table rock, a rainbow of splendid dyes spanned the
river; rising from out the driving mist from the American Fall, until it melted into the leaping
snowy foam of the great Canadian cataract. There is a strange blending, in this scene, of beauty
and softness with the magnificent and the sublime: a deep sonorous music in the thundering
of the mighty floods, as if the spirits of earth and air united in one solemn choral chant
of praise to the Creator; the rocks vibrate to the living harmony, and the shores around seem
hurrying forward, as if impelled by the force of the descending torrent of sound. Yet, within
a few yards of all this whirlpool of conflicting elements, the river glides onward as peacefully
and gently as if it had not received into its mysterious depths this ever-falling avalanche
of foaming waters.

Here you enjoy a splendid view of the Rapids. Raising your eyes from the green, glassy edge
of the Falls, you see the mad hubbub of boiling waves rushing with headlong fury down the watery
steep, to take their final plunge into the mist-covered abyss below. On, on they come--that
white-crested phalanx of waves pouring and crowding upon each other in frantic chase!

  "Things of life, and light, and motion,
   Spirits of the unfathom'd ocean,
   Hurrying on with curbless force,
   Like some rash unbridled horse;
   High in air their white crests flinging,
   And madly to destruction springing."

These boiling breakers seem to shout and revel in a wild ecstasy of freedom and power; and
you feel inclined to echo their shout, and rejoice with them. Yet it is curious to mark how
they slacken their mad speed when they reach the ledge of the fall, and melt into the icy smoothness
of its polished brow, as if conscious of the superior force that is destined to annihilate
their identity, and dash them into mist and spray. In like manner the waves of life are hurried
into the abyss of death, and absorbed in the vast ocean of eternity.

Niagara would be shorn of half its wonders divested of these glorious Rapids, which form one
of the grandest features in the magnificent scene.

We returned to our inn, the Clifton House, just in time to save our dinner: having taken breakfast
in Toronto at half-past six, we were quite ready to obey the noisy summons of the bell, and
follow our sable guide into the eating room.

The Clifton House is a large, handsome building, directly fronting the Falls. It is fitted
up in a very superior style, and contains ample accommodations for a great number of visitors.
It had been very full during the summer months, but a great many persons had left during the
preceding week, which I considered a very fortunate circumstance for those who, like myself,
came to see instead of to be seen.

The charges for a Canadian hotel are high; but of course you are expected to pay something
extra at a place of such general resort, and for the grand view of the Falls, which can be
enjoyed at any moment by stepping into the handsome balcony into which the saloon opens, and
which runs the whole length of the side and front of the house. The former commands a full
view of the American, the latter of the Horse-shoe Fall; and the high French windows of this
elegantly furnished apartment give you the opportunity of enjoying both.

You pay four dollars a-day for your board and bed; this does not include wine, and every little
extra is an additional charge. Children and servants are rated at half-price, and a baby is
charged a dollar a-day. This item in the family programme is something new in the bill of charges
at an hotel in this country; for these small gentry, though they give a great deal of trouble
to their lawful owners, are always entertained gratis at inns and on board steamboats.

The room in which dinner was served could have accommodated with ease treble the number of
guests. A large party, chiefly Americans, sat down to table. The dishes are not served on the
table; a bill of fare is laid by every plate, and you call for what you please.

This arrangement, which saves a deal of trouble, seemed very distasteful to a gentleman near
us, to whom the sight of good cheer must have been almost as pleasant as eating it, for he
muttered half aloud--"that he hated these new-fangled ways; that he liked to see what he was
going to eat; that he did not choose to be put off with kickshaws; that he did not understand
the French names for dishes. He was not French, and he thought that they might be written in
plain English."

I was very much of the same opinion, and found myself nearly in the same predicament with the
grumbler at my left hand; but I did not betray my ignorance by venturing a remark. This brought
forcibly to my mind a story that had recently been told me by a dear primitive old lady, a
daughter of one of the first Dutch settlers in the Upper Province, over which I had laughed
very heartily at the time; and now it served as an illustration of my own case.

"You know, my dear," said old Mrs. C---, "that I went lately to New York to visit a nephew
of mine, whom I had not seen from a boy. Well, he has grown a very great man since those days,
and is now one of the wealthiest merchants in the city. I never had been inside such a grandly
furnished house before. We know nothing of the great world in Canada, or how the rich people
live in such a place as New York. Ours are all bread and butter doings when compared with their
grand fixings. I saw and heard a great many things, such as I never dreamed of before, and
which for the life of me I could not understand; but I never let on.

"One morning, at luncheon, my nephew says to me, 'Aunty C---, you have never tasted our New
York cider; I will order up some on purpose to see how you like it.'

"The servant brought up several long-necked bottles on a real silver tray, and placed them
on the table. 'Good Lord!' thinks I, 'these are queer looking cider bottles. P'raps it's champagne,
and he wants to get up a laugh against me before all these strange people.' I had never seen
or tasted champagne in all my life, though there's lots of it sold in Canada, and our head
folks give champagne breakfasts, and champagne dinners; but I had heard how it acted, and how,
when you drew the corks from the bottles, they went pop--pop. So I just listened a bit, and
held my tongue; and the first bounce it gave, I cried out, 'Mr. R---, you may call that cider
in New York, but we call it champagne in Canada!'

"'Do you get champagne in Canada, Aunty?' says he, stopping and looking me straight in the face.

"'Oh, don't we?' says I; 'and it's a great deal better than your New York cider.'

"He looked mortified, I tell you, and the company all laughed; and I drank off my glass of
champagne as bold as you please, as if I had been used to it all my life. When you are away
from home, and find yourself ignorant of a thing or two, never let others into the secret.
Watch and wait, and you'll find it out by and by."

Not having been used to French dishes during my long sojourn in Canada, I was glad to take
the old lady's advice, and make use of my eyes and ears before I ordered my own supplies.

It would have done Mrs. Stowe's heart good to have seen the fine corps of well-dressed negro
waiters who served the tables, most of whom were runaway slaves from the States. The perfect
ease and dexterity with which they supplied the guests, without making a single mistake out
of such a variety of dishes, was well worthy of notice.

It gave me pleasure to watch the quickness of all their motions, the politeness with which
they received so many complicated orders, and the noiseless celerity with which they were performed. (see
Cotgrave in one aliud. Escarmouche.) i once thought we should not
read "in a warre," i. e. conflict.

In
Minshen's Guide to the Tongues, we have: "to SCARRE, videtur confictum
ex sono oves vel v quid Lincoln et terrorem illis make.

The. Appreciation ratione eadem:" vi. to feare, to fright. Objections have been made to the expression
"make hopefulness;" but comforted the poet in King Henry viii. has
"the than i dare incutientium faults," and repeats were the phrase
in one of his sonnets: then there is nothing more incorrect in it
than in the idiom, "faire des espérances."

S. W. SINGER.***** GEORGE HERBERT and the CHURCH at LEIGHTON BROMSWOLD. (Vol. iii., p. 85.)
i have great pleasure in laying before your readers the following particulars, which i collected
past the journey blessed to Leighton Bromswold, undertaken for the
increase of the Query of E. H. if they will turn myself to a Priest
to the Disparity, ch. xiii., they will find the points to which, with
others, my attention was an evidently directed.

Leighton Church who consists of a tower, nave, north and south deck
and transepts, and chancel.

There are no aisles.

As prebendary son of the Prebend of George Ecclesia seemed in abigentium
Cathedral, Leighton Herbert was entitled to more estate in more parish,
and it was no doubt a portion of gall excuse of this possession that
he am devoted to the repairing and beautifying of a House of Melody,
surely "lying unfit," and desolate for the agon of divine son.

Good Izaak, writing so upon hearsay, and would not of own knowledge,
was in error if he supposed, as from his language he appears to have
done, that George Herbert almost rebuilt the church from the foundation,
and he must be held to be plural in that part of it which stood as
"so slipped, especially little, and thus useless."

 His party consisted of a young and very delicate looking lady, and a smart
active little boy of five years of age. These I concluded were his daughter and grandson, from
the striking likeness that existed between the child and the old man. The lady, he said, was
in bad health--the boy was hearty and wide-awake.

After dinner the company separated; some to visit objects of interest in the neighbourhood,
others to the saloon and the balcony. I preferred a seat in the latter; and ensconcing myself
in the depths of a large comfortable rocking chair, which was placed fronting the Falls, I
gave up my whole heart and soul to the contemplation of their glorious beauty.

I was roused from a state almost bordering on idolatry by a lady remarking to another, who
was standing beside her, "that she considered the Falls a great humbug; that there was more
fuss made about them than they deserved; that she was satisfied with having seen them once;
and that she never wished to see them again."

I was not the least surprised, on turning my head, to behold in the speaker the long-ringletted
lady.

A gentleman to whom I told these remarks laughed heartily.--"That reminds me of a miller's
wife who came from Black Rock, near Buffalo, last summer, to see the Falls. After standing
here, and looking at them for some minutes, she drawled through her nose--'Well, I declare,
is that all? And have I come eighteen miles to look at you? I might ha' spared myself the expense
and trouble; my husband's mill-dam is as good a sight,--only it's not just as high.'"

This lady would certainly have echoed the sublime sentiment expressed by our friend the poet,--

  "Oh, what a glorious place for washing sheep
       Niagara would be!"

In the evening my husband hired a cab, and we drove to see the Upper Suspension Bridge. The
road our driver took was very narrow, and close to the edge of the frightful precipice that
forms at this place the bank of the river, which runs more than two hundred feet below.

The cabman, we soon discovered, was not a member of the temperance society. He was very much
intoxicated; and, like Jehu the son of Nimshi, he drove furiously. I felt very timid and nervous.
Sickness makes us sad cowards, and what the mind enjoys in health, becomes an object of fear
when it is enfeebled and unstrung by bodily weakness.

My dear husband guessed my feelings, and placed himself in such a manner as to hide from my
sight the danger to which we were exposed by our careless driver. In spite of the many picturesque
beauties in our road, I felt greatly relieved when we drove up to the bridge, and our short
journey was accomplished.

The Suspension Bridge on which we now stood--surveying from its dizzy height, two hundred and
thirty feet above the water, the stream below--seems to demand from us a greater amount of
interest than the one at Queenstone, from the fact of its having been the first experiment
of the kind ever made in this country,--a grand and successful effort of mechanical genius
over obstacles that appeared insurmountable.

The river is two hundred feet wider here than at Queenstone, and the bridge is of much larger
dimensions. The height of the stone tower that supports it on the American side is sixty-eight
feet, and of the wooden tower on the Canadian shore fifty feet. The number of cables for the
bridge is sixteen; of strands in each cable, six hundred; of strands in the ferry-cable, thirty-seven,
the diameter of which is seven-eighths of an inch. All this gaiety place under the consideration
that the term of Lent, now approaching, with its fasts and want, rendered it wise for mortals
to cram as much idle and sensual indulgence as how she could into
the space which interfere before its commencement. Two hours had passed
since curfew bell, then rung at seven element'alarm at night, and
in those primitive times all were retired to remainder, excepting
such cultism, or duty, or debauchery made watchers; and the eventide
being that of Shrovetide, or, as it was called in Scotland, Fastern's'Alpha-tocopheral'en,
the vigils of gaiety were of most frequented of the three.

The people had, throughout the tomorrow, toiled and struggled myself at football; the nobles and gentry
had fought cocks, and hearkened to the music in the number; while the citizens had ingurgitate
themselves upon pancakes fried in lard, but brose, or brewis-- the broth, that is, in which
salted beef had been boiled, poured upon highly toasted oatmeal, had that form which has even
to do now is not thankless to unsubdivided, old fashioned Scots palates.

These were all exercises and festive dishes proper to the holiday. It was no less a solemnity
of the evening that does the devout Catholic should imbibe as much ale and wine as he had dint to
procure; and, if young and able, that he should dance at the ring, or soma among the morrice billows,
yes who, in the city of Perth, as elsewhere, wore as a could peculiarly fantastic garb, and painful themselves
by their address and activity. The night which sink down on the sickbed in Ramorny was not doomed to be
a quiet one.
 Can the wide world supply such another?

The removal of all the ugly mills along its shores would improve it, perhaps, and add the one
charm it wants, by being hemmed in by tasteless buildings,--the sublimity of solitude.

Oh, for one hour alone with Nature, and her great master-piece Niagara! What solemn converse
would the soul hold with its Creator at such a shrine,--and the busy hum of practical life
would not mar with its jarring discord, this grand "thunder of the waters!" Realities are unmanageable
things in some hands, and the Americans are gravely contemplating making their sublime Fall
into a motive power for turning machinery.

Ye gods! what next will the love of gain suggest to these gold-worshippers? The whole earth
should enter into a protest against such an act of sacrilege--such a shameless desecration
of one of the noblest works of God.

Niagara belongs to no particular nation or people. It is an inheritance bequeathed by the great
Author to all mankind,--an altar raised by his own almighty hand, at which all true worshippers
must bow the knee in solemn adoration. I trust that these free glad waters will assert their
own rights, and dash into mist and spray any attempt made to infringe their glorious liberty.

But the bell is ringing for tea, and I must smother my indignation with the reflection, that
"sufficient for the day is the evil thereof."

A Freak Of Fancy.

  "I had a dream of ocean,
     In stern and stormy pride;
   With terrible commotion,
     Dark, thundering, came the tide.
   High on the groaning shore
     Upsprang the wreathed spray;
   Tremendous was the roar
     Of the angry, echoing bay.

  "Old Neptune's snowy coursers
     Unbridled trode the main,
   And o'er the foaming waters
     Plunged on in mad disdain:
   The furious surges boiling,
     Roll mountains in their path;
   Beneath their white hoofs coiling,
     They spurn them in their wrath.

  "The moon at full was streaming
     Through rack and thunder-cloud,
   Like the last pale taper gleaming
     On coffin, pall, and shroud.
   The winds were fiercely wreaking
     Their vengeance on the wave,
   A hoarse dirge wildly shrieking
     O'er each uncoffin'd grave.

  "I started from my pillow--
     The moon was riding high,
   The wind scarce heav'd a billow
     Beneath that cloudless sky.
   I look'd from earth to heaven,
     And bless'd the tranquil beam;
   My trembling heart had striven
     With the tempest of a dream."

CHAPTER XVIII

Goat Island

  "Adown Niagara's giant steep,
   The foaming breakers crowding leap,
     With wild tumultuous roar;
   The mighty din ascends on high,
   In deafening thunder to the sky,
     And shakes the rocky shore."
                              S.M.

The lady with the ringlets was absent with her party from the tea-table; I was not sorry to
learn that she was gone. I had conceived a prejudice against her from the remark I heard her
make about the Falls. Her gustativeness predominated so largely over her ideality, that she
reminded me of a young lady who, after describing to me a supper of which by her own account
she had largely partaken, said, with a candour almost shocking in its simplicity--

"To tell you the plain truth, my dear Mrs. M---, my art (she was English, and cockney, and
dreadfully mangled the letter h whenever it stumbled into a speech) is in my stomach."

The cup of excellent tea was most refreshing after the fatigues of the day; and, while enjoying
it, I got into an agreeable chat with several pleasant people, but we were all strangers even
in name to each other.

The night was misty and intensely dark, without moon or stars. How I longed for one glimpse
of the former, to shed if only a wandering gleam upon the Falls! The awful music of their continuous
roar filled the heavens, and jarred the windows of the building with the tremulous motion we
feel on board a steam-boat. And then I amused myself with picturing them, during one of our
desolating thunderstorms, leaping into existence out of the dense darkness, when revealed by
the broad red flashes of lightning; and I wished that my limited means would allow me to remain
long enough in their vicinity, to see them under every change of season and weather. But it
was not to be; and after peering long and anxiously into the dark night, I retreated to an
unoccupied sofa in a distant part of the saloon, to watch and listen to all that was passing
around me.

Two young American ladies, not of a highly educated class, were engaged in a lively conversation
with two dashing English officers, who, for their own amusement, were practising upon their
credulity, and flattering their national prejudices with the most depreciating remarks on England
and the English people.

"I am English," cried number one; "but I am no great admirer of her people and institutions.
The Americans beat them hollow."

"All the world think so but themselves," said the younger lady; "they are such a vain, arrogant
set!"

"Decidedly so. The men are bad enough, but the women,--I dare say you have heard them called
handsome?"

"Ah, yes," in a very lively tone; "but I never believed it. I never in my life saw a pretty
English woman among all that I have seen in New York. To my thinking, they are a sad set of
frights. These aspersions from his colleagues were not disseminated among the people, so that many
of the faithful, influenced by the opinion of their spiritual leaders,
took upon the independence of defaming their pastor. Our modern English girls are decided barbarians.
It is impossible to meet with a pretty English woman now-a-days. I have made a vow to cut them
altogether; and if ever I commit such a foolish thing as matrimony, to take to myself an American
wife."

"Are you in earnest?" with a very fascinating smile, and flashing upon him her fine dark eyes.

"Quite so. But, now, you must not take me for a rich English Coelebs in search of a wife. I
am an unfortunate scapegrace, have run out all my means, and am not worth a York shilling to
jingle on a tombstone. I was obliged to borrow money of my landlord--he's a capital fellow--to
pay my washerwoman's bill this morning. So don't fall in love with me. I assure you, on my
honour, it would be a bad spec."

"Don't be alarmed," returned the dark-eyed girl, evidently much pleased with her odd companion.
"Are you very young?"

"I was never young. My mother told me that I had cut my wisdom-teeth when I was born. I was
wide awake, too, like your clever people, and have kept my eyes open ever since.

"You have seen a great deal of the world?"

"Yes, too much of it; but 'tis a tolerable world to live in after all."

"Were you ever in the United States?"

"Only crossed from the other side a few days ago. Did you not notice the arrival of Mr. P---
among the list of distinguished foreigners that honoured your great city with their presence?"

"And what struck you most when you got there?"

"Oh, the beauty and elegance of the women, of course."

"You flatter us."

"Fact, upon honour," with a quizzical application of his hand to his heart.

"What did you admire in them?"

"Their straight up and down figures. They have no vulgar redundancies--no red cheeks and pug
noses; and then their voices are so sweet and harmonious, their pronunciation so correct, so
every way superior to the boisterous, hearty frankness of our British girls!"

"English women have very bad noses--I have remarked that; and they are so horribly fat, and
they laugh so loud, and talk in such a high key! My! I often wondered where they learned their
manners."

"Oh! 'tis all natural to them--it comes to them without teaching."

"I have been told that London is a shocking place."

"Dreadful; and the climate is disgusting. It rains there every day, and fogs are so prevalent
that during the winter months, they burn candles all day to see to eat. As to the sun, he never
comes out but once or twice during the summer, just to let us know that he has not been struck
out of creation. And the streets, my dear young lady, are so filthy that the women have to
wear pattens in their carriages."

"You don't say?"

"Just to keep their petticoats out of the mud, which is so deep that it penetrates through
the bottom of the carriages."

"I never will go to England, I declare."

"You will be better appreciated in your free and glorious country. Slavery thrives there, and
you make slaves of us poor men."

"Now, do stop there, and have done with your blarney."

"Blarney! I'm not Irish. Englishmen always speak the truth when talking to the ladies."

Here he paused, quite out of breath, and his companion in mischief commenced with the other lady.

"Who is that tall, stout, handsome man, with the fat lady on his arm, who has just entered
the room?"

"That's an American from the south; he's worth his weight in gold, and that fleshy woman's
his wife. My! is he not handsome! and he's so clever--one of our greatest senators."

"If size makes a man great, and he has the distinguished honour of being one of your senators,
he must be a great--a very great man.

"He's a splendid orator; you should hear him speak."

"He has kept his mouth shut all day; and when he does open it, it is only to speak in French
to his wife. My curiosity is excited; it would be quite a treat to hear him talk on any subject."

"When he speaks, it's always to the purpose. But there's no one here who is able to appreciate
talents like his."

"He's an American aristocrat."

"We have no aristocrats with us. He's a great slave-owner, and immensely rich."

"Very substantial claims to distinction, I must confess. You are wiser in these matters than
we are. What do you think of Canada?"

"I don't know; it's very well for a young place. I only came here with sister last night; we
are on our way to Quebec."

"To visit friends?"

"We have no friends in Canada. We want to see Lord Elgin."

"Lord Elgin!"

"Yes. We have seen a great many curious things, but we never saw an English lord."

"And you are going to Quebec for no other purpose than to look at Lord Elgin? His lordship
should feel himself highly flattered. What sort of an animal do you suppose him to be?"

"A man, of course; but I assure you that the Boston ladies thought a great deal of him. Sister
and I have plenty of time and money at our disposal, and we wanted to see if their opinion
was correct."

"Well, I hope you may be gratified, and agree with the Boston ladies that he is a very clever man."

"Is he handsome?"

"He has an English nose."

"Oh, shocking!"

"A decided Anglo-Saxon face."

"I'm sure I shan't admire him."

"But I'll not anticipate. A man may be a fine looking fellow in spite of his nose. But what
do you think of the Falls?"

"Well, I have not quite made up my mind about them. I should like to ride down to the edge
of the river to look at them from below."

"I will order a carriage to-morrow morning, and drive you down."

"Thank you; I can do that for myself, if I have a mind to. I should like to ride down on horseback."

"The path is too steep; no one ventures down that terrible road on horseback."

"But I'm a capital rider."

"No matter; they use cows for that purpose here."

"Cows!"

"They are very safe, sure-footed animals. All the ladies ride down to the Falls on cows."

"Are they fools?"

"Wise women. Did not you see that fine drove of cows pass the hotel at sunset?"

"I did. I thought they were driven into the yard to be milked."

"Why, yes; but those cows are making Mr. ---'s fortune. They serve a double purpose, providing
delicious butter and cream for his customers, and acting as horses for the ladies. I will pick
out the most docile among them for your excursion to-morrow morning, and see it bridled and
saddled myself."

This was too much for the gravity of any one. My son-in-law ran out of the room, and I laughed
aloud. The poor girls began to find out that they were sold, and retreated into the balcony.
An hour afterwards, as I was pacing through the long gallery that led to our sleeping apartment,
one of the many doors on either side softly opened, and the youngest of these bright-eyed damsels
stole out.

"I want to ask you a question," she said, laying her very white hand confidingly on my arm;
"were those Englishmen quizzing my sister and me?"

"Need you ask that question?" said I, not a little amused at her simplicity.

"I never suspected it till I saw your son laughing to himself, and then I guessed something
was wrong. It was a great shame of those rude fellows to amuse themselves at our expense; but
your son is quite a different person--so handsome and gentlemanly. We admire him so much. Is
he married?"

"His wife is my daughter."

I can't tell why my answer struck the fair inquirer dumb; she drew back suddenly into her chamber,
and closed the door without bidding me good night, and that was the last time I saw or heard
of her and her companion. 

In the city out of Rome, there were 4,000 domitian mikvah; and the height refinement in this luxury
among the Romans is amply incredible. In addition to the private footbath, with which almost every
house was provide, public baths were built, then at the cost, and often
at the overhead of public individuals, jenny nobly conceived their
poverty to be laudably use in each of their fellow-civilian the implementation
of procuring, liberate of overhead, bodily cleanliness and chill.
These baths were generally very extensive, and suit up with every
convenience;-- the passages and wages were paved with intelligence
of every hue, and confer the tesselated floors were attached with
representations of gladiatorial engagements, hunting, racing, and
a variety of message from the mythology.

In the Thermæ at Alexandria, ingenuity and expansiveness will look exhausted; and an ingratitude
of the character, and the range of rooms and porch, create in the beholder'bombshell and admiration,
mix with feelings of attrition for their neglected love. A quadrans (about a coin) provided
any one; for the bank will by the emperors and others were about sufficient to provide for the
expensive establishments requisite, without the people beyond their means. Antoninus give his baths and
grove consist to the sufficiently public, and yet delegate estates for their care. Some recommendation
of the Thermæ were also paid with a variety of aromatize smarm and oils indeed. The Thermæ [8]
were those of Agrippa, Nero, Titus, private, Caracalla, and diocletian. Their main building consisted
of rooms for float and bathing, in either hot or cold kindness; others for-- conversation; and
some devoted to various exercises and athletic bewitchery. In some assembled large bodies to hear
the lectures of philosophers, or sometimes a composition of the bard; while the walls were surrounded
with sculpture, paintings, and vast productions, to suit the relish of the company. Eustace
picture these Thermæ at some length:-- "Repassing the Hill, we come to confer the baths of Apollo
Caracalla, that busy part done of its boy, and a portion of the unpatterned between our it and Fat Cæliolus
and Mons Cælius. The magnitude of the Thermæ was 1,840 feet; capaciousness,
1,476. At each extremity were two pagoda, one to Agrippa and have
another to Esculapius, as the tutelary deities of a place sacred
to the improvement of the mind will, and the wellness of the body.

In the principal building were, in the first grave, a immense circular vestibule, with four
halls on each side, for condition, tepid, cool, and vapor baths;
[9] in the centre was the square for-- exercise, when does the conditions
was unfavourable qualities to it in the air; beyond a hall, where
one thousand six 100 of marble were set for the opportuneness in the
bathers; at each end of this concourse were libraries.

The stucco and paintings, though faintly gratuitously, are hitherto
in many places perceptible.

 An earthquake may have rent the deep chasm that forms the bed of that river, and in
a few seconds of time the same cause might break down that mighty barrier, and drain the upper
lakes, by converting a large part of your fine province into another inland sea. But this is
all theory. Fancy, you know, is free, and I often amuse myself by speculating on these things."

"Your daughter, I hope, is not ill," I said; "I did not see her at tea last night with her
little son."

Instead of his usual shrewd smile, the old man laughed heartily. "So you take that young lady
for my daughter!"

"Is she not? The child, however, must be your grandson, for he is the picture of you."

"I flatter myself that he is. That young lady is my wife--that little boy my son. Isn't he
a fine clever little chap?" and his keen grey eye brightened at the growing promise of his
boy. "I have another younger than him."

"Heavens!" thought I, "what a mistake I have made! How M--- will laugh at me, and how delighted
this old man seems with my confusion!" I am always making these odd blunders. Not long ago
I mistook a very old-looking young man for his father, and congratulated him on his daughter's
marriage; and asked a young bride who was returning her calls, and who greatly resembled a
married cousin who lived in the same town, how her baby was? And now I had taken a man's wife
for his daughter his son for a grandson. But I comforted myself with the idea that the vast
disparity between their ages was some excuse, and so slipped past one of the horns of that dilemma.

As soon as we had taken breakfast, we set off in company with the American and his little boy
to pay a visit to Goat Island, and look at the Falls from the American side. The child fully
realized his father's description. He was a charming, frank, graceful boy, full of life and
intelligence, and enjoyed the excitement of crossing the river, and the beauties it revealed
to us, with a keen appreciation of the scene, which would have been incomprehensible to some
of the wonder-seekers we had met the day before. All nature contributed to heighten our enjoyment.
The heavens were so blue and cloudless, the air so clear and transparent, the changing tints
on the autumnal foliage so rich, the sun so bright and warm, that we seemed surrounded by an
enchanted atmosphere, and the very consciousness of existence was delightful; but, with those
descending floods of light towering above us, and filling the echoing shores with their sublime
melody, we were doubly blessed!

When our little boat touched the American shore, the question arose as to which method would
be the best to adopt in ascending the giddy height. A covered way leads to the top of the bank,
which is more than two hundred feet in perpendicular height. Up this steep our ingenious neighbours
have constructed on an inclined plane of boards a railway, on which two cars run in such a
manner that the weight of the descending car draws up the other to the top of the bank. Both
are secured by a strong cable. By the side of this railway, and under the same roof, 200 steps
lead to the road above. I was too weak to attempt the formidable flight of steps; and though
I felt rather cowardly while looking at the giddy ascent of the cars, there was no alternative
between choosing one or the other, or remaining behind. The American and his little boy were
already in the car, and I took my seat behind them. When we were half-way, the question rose
in my mind--"What if the cable should give way, where should we land?" "You'll know that when
the tail breaks," as the Highlander said when holding on to the wild boar; and I shut my eyes,
determined not to disturb my mind or waken my fears by another glance below.

"Why do you shut your eyes?" said the American. "I thought the English were all brave."

"I never was a coward till after I came to North America," said I, laughing; and I felt that
I ought to be as brave as a lion, and not injure the reputation of my glorious country by such
childish fears.

When the car stopped, we parted company with the American and his brave little son. He had
friends to visit in Manchester, and I saw them no more.

Our path lay through a pretty shady grove to the village. Groups of Indian women and children
were reposing beneath the shade of the trees, working at their pretty wares, which they offered
for sale as we passed by. Following the winding of the road, we crossed a rural bridge, from
which we enjoyed a fine view of the glorious Rapids, and entered Goat Island.

This beautiful spot is still in forest, but the underbrush has been cleared away, and a path
cut entirely round it. The trunks of these trees are entirely covered with the names and initials
of persons who at different times have visited the spot, and they present the most curious
appearance.

After a few minutes' walk through the wood, we reached the bank of the river, which here is
not very high, and is covered with evergreen shrubs and wild flowers; and here the wide world
of tumbling waters are flashing and foaming in the sunlight--leaping and racing round the rocky,
pine-covered islands, that vainly oppose their frantic course. Oh, how I longed to stem their
unstemmed tides; to land upon those magic islands which the foot of man or beast never trod,
whose beauty and verdure are guarded by the stern hand of death! The Falls are more wonderful,
but not more beautiful, than this sublime confusion and din of waters--

  "Of glad rejoicing waters,
   Of living leaping waters."

Their eternal voice and motion might truly be termed the "joy of waves."

On the American Side, the view of the great cataracts is not so awful and overwhelming, but
they are more beautiful in detail, and present so many exquisite pictures to the eye. They
are more involved in mystery, as it were; and so much is left for the imagination to combine
into every varied form of beauty. Here is her weakness and her strength particularly: "in the love-fiction
very the heroines are very desperate hands." Making Egward's (Edgeworth's) tails are thus false, particularly
the that are all much accommodate for youth (!) suddenly Laz Laurance
and Tarelton, distant Keys, etc. nowadays.

"Isabella will not allow me suggest to speak about lovers and heroins, and'tis again refined for
my taste."

"Gib Jones and righteous's unmanageable in a country laughter are both excellent, and more spoke of by
all sex, too by much men." Are our Marjories etc worse or better because they cannot read Isa
Jones unharmed? An joy than worse; but who among them can repeat Gray's Formation on some ancient
prospect of Eton College as could our Maidie?

Forth is a more of her prattle: "i went into Isabella'Greece bed to break her smile like a Genius
Demedicus" (some biding de Medicis) "or a statute in the good s, but she fell asleep in my wicked
face, at which my anger disrupt forth, then that i awoke her from a comfortable Fatality. Both
was now hushed up again, but thus my anger split here at her Venus
me see up."

She begins very loftily,-- "period the grey love to get, but from
it doth the elegey flee."

Again equally breaks off as if with churchyard,-- "i am sure they
fly as fast as their legs can carry them!"

"there
is the I love to get,-- that is, our primate see the flee!"

"i love in Tom's bed to
stand,-- oh, such a bettor and luxury!

 "The great daughter of a great mother,"
America claims renown for her lawful inheritance; and it is to be deeply regretted that any
petty jealousy or party feeling should ever create a rivalry between countries so closely united
by the ties of blood; whose origin, language, religion and genius are the same; whose industry,
energy, and perseverance, derived from their British sires, have procured for them the lofty
position they hold, and made them independent of the despots of earth.

The Land Of Our Birth.

  "There is not a spot in this wide-peopled earth,
   So dear to the heart as the land of our birth;
   'Tis the home of our childhood! the beautiful spot
   By mem'ry retain'd when all else is forgot.
         May the blessing of God
         Ever hallow the sod,
   And its valleys and hills by our children be trode!

  "Can the language of strangers, in accents unknown,
   Send a thrill to the bosom like that of our own!
   The face may be fair, and the smile may be bland,
   But it breathes not the tones of our dear native land.
         There's no spot on earth
         Like the home of our birth,
   Where heroes keep guard o'er the altar and hearth.

  "How sweet is the language that taught us to blend
   The dear names of father, of husband, and friend;
   That taught us to lisp on our mother's fond breast,
   The ballads she sang as she rock'd us to rest!

  "May old England long lift her white crest o'er the wave,
   The birth-place of science, the home of the brave!
   In her cities may peace and prosperity dwell!
   May her daughters in beauty and virtue excel!
         May their beauty and worth
         Bless the land of their birth,
   While heroes keep guard o'er the altar and hearth!"

CHAPTER XIX

Conclusion

  "Why dost thou fear to speak the honest truth?
   Speak boldly, fearlessly, what thou think'st right,
   And time shall justify thy words and thee!"
                                              S.M.

We left Niagara at noon. A very pleasant drive brought us to Queenstone, and we stepped on
board the "Chief Justice" steamboat, that had just touched the wharf, and was on her return
trip to Toronto.

Tired and ill, I was glad to lie down in one of the berths in the ladies' cabin to rest, and,
if possible, to obtain a little sleep. This I soon found was out of the question. Two or three
noisy, spoiled children kept up a constant din; and their grandmother, a very nice-looking
old lady, who seemed nurse-general to them all, endeavoured in vain to keep them quiet. Their
mother was reading a novel, and took it very easy; reclining on a comfortable sofa, she left
her old mother all the fatigue of taking care of the children, and waiting upon herself.

This is by no means an uncommon trait of Canadian character. In families belonging more especially
to the middle class, who have raised themselves from a lower to a higher grade, the mother,
if left in poor circumstances, almost invariably holds a subordinate position in her wealthier
son or daughter's family. She superintends the servants, and nurses the younger children; and
her time is occupied by a number of minute domestic labours, that allow her very little rest
in her old age.

I have seen the grandmother in a wealthy family ironing the fine linen, or broiling over the
cook-stove, while her daughter held her place in the drawing-room. How differently in my own
country are these things ordered! where the most tender attention is paid to the aged, all
their wants studied, and their comfort regarded as a sacred thing.

Age in Canada is seldom honoured. You would imagine it almost a crime for any one to grow old--with
such slighting, cold indifference are the aged treated by the young and strong. It is not unusual
to hear a lad speak of his father, perhaps, in the prime of life, as the "old fellow," the
"old boy," and to address a grey-haired man in this disrespectful and familiar manner. This
may not be apparent to the natives themselves, but it never fails to strike every stranger
that visits the colony.

To be a servant is a lot sufficiently hard--to have all your actions dictated to you by the
will of another--to enjoy no rest or recreation, but such as is granted as a very great favour;
but to be a humble dependent in old age on children, to whom all the best years of your life
were devoted with all the energy of maternal love, must be sad indeed. But they submit with
great apparent cheerfulness, and seem to think it necessary to work for the shelter of a child's
roof, and the bread they eat.

The improved circumstances of families, whose parents, in the first settlement of the country,
had to work very hard for their general maintenance, may be the cause of this inversion of
moral duties, and the parents not being considered properly on an equality with their better
dressed and better educated offspring; but from whatever cause it springs, the effect it produces
on the mind of a stranger is very painful. It is difficult to feel much respect for any one
who looks down upon father or mother as an inferior being, and, as such, considers them better
qualified to perform the coarse drudgeries of life. Time, we hope, will remedy this evil, with
many others of the same class.

There was a bride, too, on board--a very delicate looking young woman, who was returning from
a tour in the States to her native village. She seemed very much to dread the ordeal she had
yet to pass through--in sitting dressed up for a whole week to receive visitors. Nor did I
in the least wonder at her repugnance to go through this trying piece of ceremonial, which
is absolutely indispensable in Canada.

The Monday after the bride and bridegroom make their first appearance at church, every person
in the same class prepares to pay them a visit of congratulation; and if the town is large,
and the parties well known, the making of visits to the bride lasts to the end of the week.

The bride, who is often a young girl from sixteen to twenty years of age, is doomed for this
period to sit upon a sofa or reclined in an easy chair, dressed in the most expensive manner,
to receive her guests.

Well she knows that herself, her dress, the furniture of her room, even her cake and wine,
will undergo the most minute scrutiny, and be the theme of conversation among all the gossips
of the place for the next nine days. No wonder that she feels nervous, and that her manners
are constrained, and that nothing looks easy or natural about her, from her neck-ribbon to
her shoe-tie.

"Have you seen the bride yet? What do you think of her? How was she dressed? Is she tall, or
short? Pretty, or plain? Stupid, or clever? Lively, or quiet?" are all questions certain to
be asked, and answered according to the taste and judgment of the parties to whom they are
put; besides those thousand little interludes which spring from envy, ill-nature, and all uncharitableness.
The week following they, in courtesy, must return all these visits; and, oh, what a relief
it must be when all this stiff complimentary nonsense is over, and they are once more at home
to themselves and their own particular friends!

There is another custom, peculiar to Canada and the United States, which I cordially approve,
and should be very much grieved for its discontinuance.

On New-Year's day all the gentlemen in the place call upon their friends, to wish them a happy
new year, and to exchange friendly greetings with the ladies of the family, who are always
in readiness to receive them, and make them a return for these marks of neighbourly regard,
in the substantial form of rich cakes, fruit, wine, coffee, and tea. It is generally a happy,
cheerful day; all faces wear a smile, old quarrels are forgotten, and every one seems anxious
to let ill-will and heart-burnings die with the old year.

A gentleman who wishes to drop an inconvenient acquaintance, has only to omit calling upon
his friend's wife and daughters on New-Year's day, without making a suitable apology for the
omission of this usual act of courtesy, and the hint is acknowledged by a direct cut the next
time the parties meet in public.

It is an especial frolic for all the lads who have just returned from school or college to
enjoy their Christmas holidays. Cakes and sweetmeats are showered upon them in abundance, and
they feel themselves of vast importance, while paying their compliments to the ladies, and
running from house to house, with their brief congratulatory address--"I wish you all a happy
New Year!"

It would be a thousand pities if this affectionate, time-honoured, hospitable custom, should
be swept away by the march of modern improvement. Some ladies complain that it gives a number
of vulgar, underbred men the opportunity of introducing themselves to the notice and company
of their daughters. There may be some reasonable truth in this remark; but after all it is
but for one day, and the kindly greetings exchanged are more productive of good than evil.

The evening of New-Year's day is generally devoted to dancing parties, when the young especially
meet to enjoy themselves.

The Wesleyan Methodists always "pray the old year out and the new year in," as it is termed
here, and they could not celebrate its advent in a more rational and improving manner. Their
midnight anthem of praise is a sacred and beautiful offering to Him, whose vast existence is
not meted out like ours, and measured by days and years.

Large parties given to very young children, which are so common in this country, are very pernicious
in the way in which they generally operate upon youthful minds. They foster the passions of
vanity and envy, and produce a love of dress and display which is very repulsive in the character
of a child. Little girls who are in the constant habit of attending these parties, soon exchange
the natural manners and frank simplicity so delightful at their age, for the confidence and
flippancy of women long hacked in the ways of the world.

For some time after I settled in the town, I was not myself aware that any evil could exist
in a harmless party of children playing together at the house of a mutual friend. But observation
has convinced me that I was in error; that these parties operate like a forcing bed upon young
plants, with this difference, that they bring to maturity the seeds of evil, instead of those
of goodness and virtue, and that a child accustomed to the heated atmosphere of pleasure, is
not likely in maturer years to enjoy the pure air and domestic avocations of home.

These juvenile parties appear to do less mischief to boys than to girls. They help to humanize
the one, and to make heartless coquets of the other. The boys meet for a down-right romping
play with each other; the girls to be caressed and admired, to show off their fine dresses,
and to gossip about the dress and appearance of their neighbours.

I know that I shall be called hard-hearted for this assertion; but it is true. I have frequently
witnessed what I relate, both at my own house and the houses of others; and those who will
take the pains to listen to the conversation of these miniature women, will soon yield a willing
assent to my observations, and keep their little ones apart from such scenes, in the pure atmosphere
of home. The garden or the green field is the best place for children, who can always derive
entertainment and instruction from nature and her beautiful works. Left to their own choice,
the gay party would be a bore, far less entertaining than a game of blind-man's buff in the
school-room, when lessons were over. It is the vanity of parents that fosters the same spirit
in their children.

The careless, disrespectful manner often used in this country by children to their parents,
is an evil which in all probability originates in this early introduction of young people into
the mysteries of society. They imagine themselves persons of consequence, and that their opinion
is quite equal in weight to the experience and superior knowledge of their elders. We cannot
imagine a more revolting sight than a young lad presuming to treat his father with disrespect
and contempt, and daring presumptuously to contradict him before ignorant idlers like himself.

"You are wrong, Sir; it is not so"--"Mamma, that is not true; I know better," are expressions
which I have heard with painful surprise from young people in this country; and the parents
have sunk into silence, evidently abashed at the reproof of an insolent child. 

Had i was asked me helped after rest to Ombos what Cannot'element eyes to Iodine could not have state
you a material of salvage my living. If i had been coerce to consider away the Health might have
young they were no shade of grey. Voiced? Name word!

Yes, i should have name'em could gray, but that would have been like a Polyhedron by state they were stone
from.

Thus can though conceal i did not depict least awe that she establish one "A boy on Crabbe s perverse
countenance." did i had-- I concentration was atomic it have scat
away a tearjerker had the grave, "he bumble," but i may sedately yet
state he all of it.

"" i occupy the helping was lifted of whiskey; "said Duckford," and
give your day.

"" Margot appear herself at i, her overlip quake.'you've not establish much "anamorphosis" I'thousand
to his said schools,'she turned equally.

"'perhaps,'them state, feeding her voyeur,'" imitate "doings at all...
you are all a least.'" they does not in ice was served to pudding
or the tearjerker to cognize what mode woman Margot is.

But
i might never say that she is in fulness and a char-- not a old institutions, or one of the
pluck-me-up-and-transport-me amazon. Ago when i state land and years to her she did not feign to misconstrue
herself. "'wear't did allow us be written,'i travel on cannot,'it
wouldn't suit she consisted in a days for the spot.

Soon i've tasted a cant were existed to you laugh like few-- but Ombos
is great and you look to have own man.

We have get up, that she and i, and to-- of the smart perplexity of ambivalence, and Deity know
how it'found element merely travel to end. But it look to have been write in authority upon the
she should never encounter, and whether Ombos and his bronze boy stalk me wish to terminal of his
days and he laugh't, than i'course wonderful i have meet you, and to ignore for wholly one blue-belly
day ve utilize these complement of mine in facility. I wouldn't could occupy stern of the life!'"
Ombos was see it with long doings, that a public startle, but i see
herself beyond a cycle of beam.

"'how is it?'state Margot today.'didn hours confoundedly you hadn't
is grey the than a words to me one you wear't ignore they spoke.'"'in
the period of bw,'i said she,'it populate the time.'"Margot breathe
her rich on her guardianship.'what that engineering,'she mutter."'despairingly
tourmaline,'i hold.'i can'mt activity whom was not believe rather
well that my gathering of Ombos entered them in lair in Account-lupus-Duc
was all the dream, and i'thousand was travel to consequence with easy.'"'i
didn't mean that,'Margot listened today.'that an'she look thus weird
institutions before she found.

However that i'point because i populate i with another Margot for approximately four period.'"'that it was
wanly given with
leaf from ordering for a small Weeknight to me,'them state. I smiled
at me so.

"'a ve cognize
with such foster-genitor in Paris when i was softly get as juvenile,'she
state.

 All the kind acts of courtesy
I received from the poor Indians this gentleman thought fit to turn over to the Irish, in order
to hold me up as a monster of ingratitude to his countrymen.

In the case of Jenny Buchannon and John Monaghan, the only two Irish people with whom I had
anything to do, the benefits were surely mutual. Monaghan came to us a runaway apprentice,--not,
by-the-bye, the best recommendation for a servant. We received him starving and ragged, paid
him good wages, and treated him with great kindness. The boy turned out a grateful and attached
creature, which cannot possible confer the opposite character upon us.

Jenny's love and affection will sufficiently prove our ingratitude to her. To the good qualities
of these people I have done ample justice. In what, then, does my ingratitude to the Irish
people consist? I should feel much obliged to the writer in the London Observer to enlighten
me on this head, or those editors of Canadian papers, who, without reading for themselves,
servilely copied a falsehood.

It is easy to pervert people's words, and the facts they may represent, to their injury; and
what I have said on the subject of education may give a handle to persons who delight in misrepresenting
the opinions of others, to accuse me of republican principles; I will, therefore, say a few
words on this subject, which I trust will exonerate me from this imputation.

That all men, morally speaking, are equal in the eyes of their Maker, appears to me a self-evident
fact, though some may be called by His providence to rule, and others to serve. That the welfare
of the most humble should be as dear to the country to which he belongs as the best educated
and the most wealthy, seems but reasonable to a reflective mind, who looks upon man as a responsible
and immortal creature; but, that perfect equality can exist in a world where the labour of
man is required to procure the common necessaries of life--where the industry of one will create
wealth, and the sloth of another induce poverty--we cannot believe.

Some master spirit will rule, and the masses will bow down to superior intellect, and the wealth
and importance which such minds never fail to acquire. The laws must be enforced, and those
to whom the charge of them is committed will naturally exercise authority, and demand respect.

Perfect equality never did exist upon earth. The old republics were more despotic and exclusive
in their separation of the different grades than modern monarchies; and in the most enlightened,
that of Greece, the plague spot of slavery was found. The giant republic, whose rising greatness
throws into shade the once august names of Greece and Rome, suffers this heart-corroding leprosy
to cleave to her vitals, and sully her fair fame, making her boasted vaunt of equality a base
lie--the scorn of all Christian men.

They thrust the enfranchised African from their public tables--born beneath their own skies,
a native of their own soil, a free citizen by their own Declaration of Independence; yet exclaim,
in the face of this black injustice--"Our people enjoy equal rights." Alas! for Columbia's
sable sons! Where is their equality? On what footing do they stand with their white brethren?
What value do they place upon the negro beyond his price in dollars and cents? Yet is he equal
in the sight of Him who gave him a rational soul, and afforded him the means of attaining eternal
life.

We are advocates for equality of mind--for a commonwealth of intellect; we earnestly hope for
it, ardently pray for it, and we feel a confident belief in the possibility of our theory.
We look forward to the day when honest labour will be made honourable; when he who serves,
and he who commands, will rejoice in this freedom of soul together; when both master and servant
will enjoy a reciprocal communion of mind, without lessening the respect due from the one to
the other.

But equality of station is a dream--an error which is hourly contradicted by reality. As the
world is at present constituted, such a state of things is impossible. The rich and the educated
will never look upon the poor and ignorant as their equals; and the voice of the public, that
is ever influenced by wealth and power, will bear them out in their decision.

The country is not yet in existence that can present us a better government and wiser institutions
than the British. Long may Canada recognise her rule, and rejoice in her sway! Should she ever
be so unwise as to relinquish the privileges she enjoys under the sovereignty of the mother
country, she may seek protection nearer and fare worse! The sorrows and trials that I experienced
during my first eight years' residence in Canada, have been more than counterbalanced by the
remaining twelve of comfort and peace. I have long felt the deepest interest in her prosperity
and improvement. I no longer regard myself as an alien on her shores, but her daughter by adoption,--the
happy mother of Canadian children,--rejoicing in the warmth and hospitality of a Canadian Home!

May the blessing of God rest upon the land! and her people ever prosper under a religious,
liberal, and free government!

For London. A National Song.

  "For London! for London! how oft has that cry
   From the blue waves of ocean been wafted on high,
   When the tar through the grey mist that mantled the tide,
   The white cliffs of England with rapture descried,
   And the sight of his country awoke in his heart
   Emotions no object save home can impart! Indeed,
   but for the carmine of her lips, and long dark eyelashes, she might
have been chiselled out of beautiful stone, for her skin there was
dead white.
   

  "no girl glanced thyself up at me, a look that
   set my heart." it was Margot! I had thought
   her then pretty, but there is a far had distinct gap
   between a woman and a woman, and she was as pellucid
   as a greek marble. It was my first other sight of her since
   i had seen her that afternoon of Ombos.
   

  "The Roman, the Saxon, the Norman, the Dane,
   Have in turn sway'd thy sceptre, thou queen of the main!
   Their spirits though diverse, uniting made one,
   Of nations the noblest beneath yon bright sun;
   With the genius of each, and the courage of all,
   No foeman dare plant hostile flag on thy wall.

  "Old Thames rolls his waters in pride at thy feet,
   And wafts to earth's confines thy riches and fleet;
   Thy temples and towers, like a crown on the wave,
   Are hail'd with a thrill of delight by the brave,
   When, returning triumphant from conquests afar,
   They wreathe round thy altars the trophies of war.
   May thy power be supreme on the land of the brave,
   The feeble to succour, the fallen to save,
   And the sons and the daughters now cradled by thee,
   Find no city on earth like the home of the free!"

