There is nothing comes to us, whether in childhood or age, so crushing as a sense of isolation.
Who will deny it had to do with the marshalling of worlds, and the peopling them--with creation?

These reflections did but wait upon the impulse which still further identified him to himself--the
impulse to go and keep going--and he cast about for solaces.

"It is the Judgment," he said, with a grim smile; "but my stores remain, and Hiram of Tyre
is yet my friend. I have my experience of more than a thousand years, and with it youth again.
I cannot make men better, and God refuses my services. Nevertheless I will devise new opportunities.
The earth is round, and upon its other side there must be another world. Perhaps I can find
some daring spirit equal to the voyage and discovery--some one Heaven may be more willing to
favor. But this meeting place of the old continents"--he looked around him, and then to the
sky--"with my farewell, I leave it the curse of the most accursed. The desired of nations,
it shall be a trouble to them forever."

Then he saw Nilo under a load of corpses, and touched by remembrance of the poor savage's devotion,
he uncovered him to get at his heart, which was still beating. Next he threw away his cap and
gown, replaced them with a bloody tarbousche and a shaggy Angora mantle, selected a javelin,
and sauntered leisurely on into the city. Having seen Constantinople pillaged by Christians,
he was curious to see it now sacked by Moslems--there might be a further solace in the comparison.

[Footnote: According to the earliest legends, the Wandering Jew was about thirty years old
when he stood in the road to Golgotha, and struck the Saviour, and ordered him to go forward.
At the end of every hundred years, the undying man falls into a trance, during which his body
returns to the age it was when the curse was pronounced. In all other respects he remains unchanged.]

CHAPTER XIII

MAHOMMED IN SANCTA SOPHIA

Count Corti, we may well believe, did not spare his own steed, or those of his Berbers; and
there was a need of haste of which he was not aware upon setting out from St. Romain. The Turks
had broken through the resistance of the Christian fleet in the harbor, and were surging into
the city by the gate St. Peter (Phanar), which was perilously near the residence of the Princess
Irene.

Already the spoil-seekers were making sure of their hire. More than once he dashed by groups
of them hurrying along the streets in search of houses most likely to repay plundering. There
were instances when he overtook hordesmen already happy in the possession of "strings of slaves;"
that is to say, of Greeks, mostly women and children, tied by their hands to ropes, and driven
mercilessly on. The wailing and prayers of the unfortunate smote the Count to the heart; he
longed to deliver them; but he had given his best efforts to save them in the struggle to save
the city, and had failed; now it would be a providence of Heaven could he rescue the woman
waiting for him in such faith as was due his word and honor specially plighted to her. As the
pillagers showed no disposition to interfere with him, he closed his eyes and ears to their
brutalities, and sped forward.

The district in which the Princess dwelt was being overrun when he at last drew rein at her
door. With a horrible dread, he alighted, and pushed in unceremoniously. The reception-room
was empty. Was he too late? Or was she then in Sancta Sophia? He flew to the chapel, and blessed
God and Christ and the Mother, all in a breath. She was before the altar in the midst of her
attendants. Sergius stood at her side, and of the company they alone were perfectly self-possessed.
A white veil lay fallen over her shoulders; save that, she was in unrelieved black. The pallor
of her countenance, caused, doubtless, by weeks of care and unrest, detracted slightly from
the marvelous beauty which was hers by nature; but it seemed sorrow and danger only increased
the gentle dignity always observable in her speech and manner.

"Princess Irene," he said, hastening forward, and reverently saluting her hand, "if you are
still of the mind to seek refuge in Sancta Sophia, I pray you, let us go thither."

"We are ready," she returned. "But tell me of the Emperor."

The Count bent very low.

"Your kinsman is beyond insult and further humiliation. His soul is with God."

Her eyes glistened with tears, and partly to conceal her emotion she turned to the picture
above the altar, and said, in a low voice, and brokenly:

"O Holy Mother, have thou his soul in thy tender care, and be with me now, going to what fate
I know not."

The young women surrounded her, and on their knees filled the chapel with sobbing and suppressed
wails. Striving for composure himself, the Count observed them, and was at once assailed by
an embarrassment.

They were twenty and more. Each had a veil over her head; yet from the delicacy of their hands
he could imagine their faces, while their rank was all too plainly certified by the elegance
of their garments. As a temptation to the savages, their like was not within the walls. How
was he to get them safely to the Church, and defend them there? He was used to military problems,
and decision was a habit with him; still he was sorely tried--indeed, he was never so perplexed.

The Princess finished her invocation to the Holy Mother.

"Count Corti," she said, "I now place myself and these, my sisters in misfortune, under thy
knightly care. Only suffer me to send for one other.--Go, Sergius, and bring Lael."

One other!

"Now God help me!" he cried, involuntarily; and it seemed he was heard.

"Princess," he returned, "the Turks have possession of the streets. On my way I passed them
with prisoners whom they were driving, and they appeared to respect a right of property acquired.
Perhaps they will be not less observant to me; wherefore bring other veils here--enough to
bind these ladies two and two."

As she seemed hesitant, he added: "Pardon me, but in the streets you must all go afoot, to
appearances captives just taken."

The veils were speedily produced, and the Princess bound her trembling companions in couples
hand to hand; submitting finally to be herself tied to Lael. Then when Sergius was more substantially
joined to the ancient Lysander, the household sallied forth.

A keener realization of the situation seized the gentler portion of the procession once they
were in the street, and they there gave way to tears, sobs, and loud appeals to the Saints
and Angels of Mercy.

The Count rode in front; four of his Berbers moved on each side; Sheik Hadifah guarded the
rear; and altogether a more disconsolate company of captives it were hard imagining. A rope
passing from the first couple to the last was the only want required to perfect the resemblance
to the actual slave droves at the moment on nearly every thoroughfare in Constantinople.

The weeping cortege passed bands of pillagers repeatedly.

Once what may be termed a string in fact was met going in the opposite direction; women and
children, and men and women were lashed together, like animals, and their lamentations were
piteous. If they fell or faltered, they were beaten. It seemed barbarity could go no further.

Once the Count was halted. A man of rank, with a following at his heels, congratulated him
in Turkish:

"O friend, thou hast a goodly capture."

The stranger came nearer.

"I will give you twenty gold pieces for this one," pointing to the Princess Irene, who, fortunately,
could not understand him--"and fifteen for this one."

"Go thy way, and quickly," said Corti, sternly.

"Dost thou threaten me?"

"By the Prophet, yes--with my sword, and the Padishah."

"The Padishah! Oh, ho!" and the man turned pale. "God is great--I give him praise."

At last the Count alighted before the main entrance of the Church. By friendly chance, also--probably
because the site was far down toward the sea, in a district not yet reached by the hordesmen--the
space in front of the vestibule was clear of all but incoming fugitives; and he had but to
knock at the door, and give the name of the Princess Irene to gain admission.

In the vestibule the party were relieved of their bonds; after which they passed into the body
of the building, where they embraced each other, and gave praise aloud for what they considered
a final deliverance from death and danger; in their transports, they kissed the marbles of
the floor again and again.

While this affecting scene was going on, Corti surveyed the interior. The freest pen cannot
do more than give the view with a clearness to barely stimulate the reader's imagination.

It was about eleven o'clock. The smoke of battle which had overlain the hills of the city was
dissipated; so the sun, nearing high noon, poured its full of splendor across the vast nave
in rays slanted from south to north, and a fine, almost impalpable dust hanging from the dome
in the still air, each ray shone through it in vivid, half-prismatic relief against the shadowy
parts of the structure. Such pillars in the galleries as stood in the paths of the sunbeams
seemed effulgent, like emeralds and rubies. His eyes, however, refused everything except the
congregation of people.

"O Heaven!" he exclaimed. "What is to become of these poor souls!"

Byzantium, it must be recalled, had had its triumphal days, when Greeks drew together, like
Jews on certain of their holy occasions; undoubtedly the assemblages then were more numerous,
but never had there been one so marked by circumstances. This was the funeral day of the Empire!

Let the reader try to recompose the congregation the Count beheld-- civilians--soldiers--nuns--monks--monks
bearded, monks shaven, monks tonsured--monks in high hats and loose veils, monks in gowns scarce
distinguishable from gowns of women--monks by the thousand. Ah, had they but dared a manly
part on the walls, the cause of the Christ for whom they affected such devotion would not have
suffered the humiliation to which it was now going! As to the mass in general, let the reader
think of the rich jostled by the poor--fine ladies careless if their robes took taint from
the Lazarus' next them--servants for once at least on a plane with haughty masters--Senators
and slaves--grandsires--mothers with their infants--old and young, high and low, all in promiscuous
presence-- society at an end--Sancta Sophia a universal last refuge. And by no means least
strange, let the reader fancy the refugees on their knees, silent as ghosts in a tomb, except
that now and then the wail of a child broke the awful hush, and gazing over their shoulders,
not at the altar, but toward the doors of entrance; then let him understand that every one
in the smother of assemblage--every one capable of thought--was in momentary expectation of
a miracle.

Here and there moved priestly figures, holding crucifixes aloft, and halting at times to exhort
in low voices: "Be not troubled, O dearly beloved of Christ! The angel will appear by the old
column. If the powers of hell are not to prevail against the Church, what may men do against
the sword of God?"

The congregation was waiting for the promised angel to rescue them from the Barbarians.

Of opinion that the chancel, or space within the railing of the apse opposite him, was a better
position for his charge than the crowded auditorium, partly because he could more easily defend
them there, and partly because Mahommed when he arrived would naturally look for the Princess
near the altar, the Count, with some trouble, secured a place within it behind the brazen balustrade
at the right of the gate. The invasion of the holy reserve by the Berbers was viewed askance,
but submitted to; thereupon the Princess and her suite took to waiting and praying.

Afterwhile the doors in the east were barred by the janitor.

Still later there was knocking at them loud enough to be by authority. The janitor had become deaf.

Later still a yelling as of a mob out in the vestibule penetrated to the interior, and a shiver
struck the expectant throng, less from a presentiment of evil at hand than a horrible doubt.
An angel of the Lord would hardly adopt such an incongruous method of proclaiming the miracle
done. A murmur of invocation began with those nearest the entrances, and ran from the floor
to the galleries. As it spread, the shouting increased in volume and temper. Ere long the doors
were assailed. The noise of a blow given with determination rang dreadful warning through the
whole building, and the concourse arose.

The women shrieked: "The Turks! The Turks!"

Even the nuns who had been practising faith for years joined their lay sisters in crying: "The
Turks! The Turks!"

The great, gowned, cowardly monks dropped their crucifixes, and, like the commoner sons of
the Church, howled: "The Turks! The Turks!"

Finally the doors were battered in, and sure enough--there stood the hordesmen, armed and panoplied
each according to his tribe or personal preference--each a most unlikely delivering angel.

This completed the panic.

In the vicinity of the ruined doors everybody, overcome by terror, threw himself upon those
behind, and the impulsion thus started gained force while sweeping on. As ever in such cases,
the weak were the sufferers. Children were overrun--infants dashed from the arms of mothers--men
had need of their utmost strength--and the wisdom of the Count in seeking the chancel was proved.
The massive brazen railing hardly endured the pressure when the surge reached it; but it stood,
and the Princess and her household--all, in fact, within the chancel--escaped the crushing,
but not the horror.

The spoilsmen were in strength, but they were prudently slow in persuading themselves that
the Greeks were unarmed, and incapable of defending the Church. Ere long they streamed in,
and for the first time in the history of the edifice the colossal Christ on the ceiling above
the altar was affronted by the slogan of Islam--Allah-il-Allah.

Strange now as it may appear to the reader, there is no mention in the chronicles of a life
lost that day within the walls of Sancta Sophia. The victors were there for plunder, not vengeance,
and believing there was more profit in slaves than any other kind of property, their effort
was to save rather than kill. The scene was beyond peradventure one of the cruelest in history,
but the cruelty was altogether in taking possession of captives.

Tossing their arms of whatever kind upon their backs, the savages pushed into the pack of Christians
to select whom they would have. We may be sure the old, sick, weakly, crippled, and very young
were discarded, and the strong and vigorous chosen. Remembering also how almost universally
the hordes were from the East, we may be sure a woman was preferred to a man, and a pretty
woman to an ugly one.

The hand shrinks from trying to depict the agonies of separation which ensued--mothers torn
from their children, wives from husbands--their shrieks, entreaties, despair--the mirthful
brutality with which their pitiful attempts at resistance were met--the binding and dragging
away--the last clutch of love--the final disappearance. It is only needful to add that the
rapine involved the galleries no less than the floor. All things considered, the marvel is
that the cry--there was but one, just as the sounds of many waters are but one to the ear--which
then tore the habitual silence of the august temple should have ever ceased--and it would not
if, in its duration, human sympathy were less like a flitting echo.

Next to women, the monks were preferred, and the treatment they received was not without its
touches of grim humor. Their cowls were snatched off, and bandied about, their hats crushed
over their ears, their veils stuffed in their mouths to stifle their outcries, their rosaries
converted into scourges; and the laughter when a string of them passed to the doors was long
and loud. They had pulled their monasteries down upon themselves. If the Emperor, then lying
in the bloody alley of St. Romain, dead through their bigotry, superstition, and cowardice,
had been vengeful in the slightest degree, a knowledge of the judgment come upon them so soon
would have been at least restful to his spirit.

It must not be supposed Count Corti was indifferent while this appalling scene was in progress.
The chancel, he foresaw, could not escape the foray. There was the altar, loaded with donatives
in gold and precious stones, a blazing pyramidal invitation. When the doors were burst in,
he paused a moment to see if Mahommed were coming.

"The hordes are here, O Princess, but not the Sultan."

She raised her veil, and regarded him silently.

"I see now but one resort. As Mirza the Emir, I must meet the pillagers by claiming the Sultan
sent me in advance to capture and guard you for" him."

"We are at mercy, Count Corti," she replied. "Heaven deal with you as you deal with us."

"If the ruse fails, Princess, I can die for you. Now tie yourselves as before--two and two,
hand to hand. It may be they will call on me to distinguish such as are my charge."

She cast a glance of pity about her.

"And these, Count--these poor women not of my house, and the children-- can you not save them
also?"

"Alas, dear lady! The Blessed Mother must be their shield."

While the veils were being applied, the surge against the railing took place, leaving a number
of dead and fainting across it.

"Hadifah," the Count called out, "clear the way to yon chair against the wall."

The Sheik set about removing the persons blockading the space, and greatly affected by their
condition, the Princess interceded for them.

"Nay, Count, disturb them not. Add not to their terror, I pray."

But the Count was a soldier; in case of an affray, he wanted the advantage of a wall at his back.

"Dear lady, it was the throne of your fathers, now yours. I will seat you there. From it you
can best treat with the Lord Mahommed."

Ere long some of the hordes--half a dozen or more--came to the chancel gate. They were of the
rudest class of Anatolian shepherds, clad principally in half-cloaks of shaggy goat skin. Each
bore at his back a round buckler, a bow, and a clumsy quiver of feathered arrows. Awed by the
splendor of the altar and its surroundings, they stopped; then, with shouts, they rushed at
the tempting display, unmindful of the living spoils crouched on the floor dumb with terror.
Others of a like kind reenforced them, and there was a fierce scramble. The latest comers turned
to the women, and presently discovered the Princess Irene sitting upon the throne. One, more
eager than the rest, was indisposed to respect the Berbers.

"Here are slaves worth having. Get your ropes," he shouted to his companions.

The Count interposed.

"Art thou a believer?" he asked in Turkish.

They surveyed him doubtfully, and then turned to Hadifah and his men, tall, imperturbable looking,
their dark faces visible through their open hoods of steel. They looked at their shields also,
and at their bare cimeters resting points to the floor.

"Why do you ask?" the man returned.

"Because, as thou mayst see, we also are of the Faithful, and do not wish harm to any whose
mothers have taught them to begin the day with the Fah-hat."

The fellow was impressed.

"Who art thou?"

"I am the Emir Mirza, of the household of our Lord the Padishah--to whom be all the promises
of the Koran! These are slaves I selected for him-- all these thou seest in bonds. I am keeping
them till he arrives. He will be here directly. He is now coming."

A man wearing a bloody tarbousche joined the pillagers, during this colloquy, and pressing
in, heard the Emir's name passing from mouth to mouth.

"The Emir Mirza! I knew him, brethren. He commanded the caravan, and kept the mahmals, the
year I made the pilgrimage.... Stand off, and let me see." After a short inspection, he continued:
"Truly as there is no God but God, this is he. I was next him at the most holy corner of the
Kaaba when he fell down struck by the plague. I saw him kiss the Black Stone, and by virtue
of the kiss he lived.... Ay, stand back--or if you touch him, or one of these in his charge,
and escape his hand, ye shall not escape the Padishah, whose first sword he is, even as Khalid
was first sword for the Prophet--exalted be his name!... Give me thy hand, O valiant Emir."

He kissed the Count's hand.

"Arise, O son of thy father," said Corti; "and when our master, the Lord Mahommed, hath set
up his court and harem, seek me for reward."

The man stayed awhile, although there was no further show of interference; and he looked past
the Princess to Lael cowering near her. He took no interest in what was going on around him--Lael
alone attracted him. At last he shifted his sheepskin covering higher upon his shoulders, and
left these words with the Count:

"The women are not for the harem. I understand thee, O Mirza. When the Lord Mahommed hath set
up his court, do thou tell the little Jewess yonder that her father the Prince of India charged
thee to give her his undying love."

Count Corti was wonder struck--he could not speak--and so the Wandering Jew vanished from his
sight as he now vanishes from our story.

The selection among the other refugees in the chancel proceeded until there was left of them
only such as were considered not worth the having.

A long time passed, during which the Princess Irene sat with veil drawn close, trying to shut
out the horror of the scene. Her attendants, clinging to the throne and to each other, seemed
a heap of dead women. At last a crash of music was heard in the vestibule--drums, cymbals,
and trumpets in blatant flourish. Four runners, slender lads, in short, sleeveless jackets
over white shirts, and wide trousers of yellow silk, barefooted and bareheaded, stepped lightly
through the central doorway, and, waving wands tipped with silver balls, cried, in long-toned
shrill iteration: "The Lord Mahommed--Mahommed, Sultan of Sultans."

The spoilsmen suspended their hideous labor--the victims, moved doubtless by a hope of rescue,
gave over their lamentations and struggling--only the young children, and the wounded, and
suffering persisted in vexing the floor and galleries.

Next to enter were the five official heralds. Halting, they blew a triumphant refrain, at which
the thousands of eyes not too blinded by misery turned to them.

And Mahommed appeared!

He too had escaped the Angel of the false monks!

When the fighting ceased in the harbor, and report assured him of the city at mercy, Mahommed
gave order to make the Gate St. Romain passable for horsemen, and with clever diplomacy summoned
the Pachas and other military chiefs to his tent; it was his pleasure that they should assist
him in taking possession of the prize to which he had been helped by their valor. With a rout
so constituted at his back, and an escort of Silihdars mounted, the runners and musicians preceding
him, he made his triumphal entry into Constantinople, traversing the ruins of the towers Bagdad
and St. Romain.

He was impatient and restless. In their ignorance of his passion for the Grecian Princess,
his ministers excused his behavior on account of his youth [Footnote: He was in his twenty-third
year.] and the greatness of his achievement. Passing St. Romain, it was also observed he took
no interest in the relics of combat still there. He gave his guides but one order:

"Take me to the house the Gabours call the Glory of God."

"Sancta Sophia, my Lord?"

"Sancta Sophia--and bid the runners run."

His Sheik-ul-Islam was pleased.

"Hear!" he said to the dervishes with him. "The Lord Mahommed will make mosques of the houses
of Christ before sitting down in one of the palaces. His first honors are to God and the Prophet."

And they dutifully responded: "Great are God and his Prophet! Great is Mahommed, who conquers
in their names!"

The public edifices by which he was guided--churches, palaces, and especially the high aqueduct,
excited his admiration; but he did not slacken the fast trot in which he carried his loud cavalcade
past them until at the Hippodrome.

"What thing of devilish craft is here?" he exclaimed, stopping in front of the Twisted Serpents.
"Thus the Prophet bids me!" and with a blow of his mace, he struck off the lower jaw of one
of the Pythons.

Again the dervishes shouted: "Great is Mahommed, the servant of God!"

It was his preference to be taken to the eastern front of Sancta Sophia, and in going the guides
led him by the corner of the Bucoleon.

In the space before the Church, as elsewhere along the route he had come, the hordes were busy
carrying off their wretched captives; but he affected not to see them. They had bought the
license of him, many of them with their blood.

At the door the suite dismounted. Mahommed however, kept his saddle while surveying the gloomy
exterior. Presently he bade:

"Let the runners and the heralds enter."

Hardly were they gone in, when he spoke to one of his pages: "Here, take thou this, and give
me my cimeter." And then, receiving the ruby-hilted sword of Solomon in exchange for the mace
of Ilderim, without more ado he spurred his horse up the few broad stone steps, and into the
vestibule. Thence, the contemptuous impulse yet possessing him, he said loudly: "The house
is defiled with idolatrous images. Islam is in the saddle."

In such manner--mounted, sword in hand, shield behind him--clad in beautiful gold-washed chain
mail, the very ideal of the immortal Emir who won Jerusalem from the Crusaders, and restored
it to Allah and the Prophet--Mahommed made his first appearance in Sancta Sophia.

Astonishment seized him. He checked his horse. Slowly his gaze ranged over the floor--up to
the galleries--up--up to the swinging dome--in all architecture nothing so nearly a self-depending
sky.

"Here, take the sword--give me back my mace," he said.

And in a fit of enthusiasm, not seeing, not caring for the screaming wretches under hoof, he
rode forward, and, standing at full height in his stirrups, shouted: "Idolatry be done! Down
with the Trinity. Let Christ give way for the last and greatest of the Prophets! To God the
one God, I dedicate this house!"

Therewith he dashed the mace against a pillar; and as the steel rebounded, the pillar trembled.
[Footnote: The guides, if good Moslems, take great pleasure in showing tourists the considerable
dent left by this blow in the face of the pillar.]

"Now give me the sword again, and call Achmet, my muezzin--Achmet with the flute in his throat."

The moods of Mahommed were swift going and coming. Riding out a few steps, he again halted
to give the floor a look. This time evidently the house was not in his mind. The expression
on his face became anxious. He was searching for some one, and moved forward so slowly the
people could get out of his way, and his suite overtake him. At length he observed the half-stripped
altar in the apse, and went to it.

The colossal Christ on the ceiling peered down on him through the shades beginning to faintly
fill the whole west end.

Now he neared the brazen railing of the chancel--now he was at the gate--his countenance changed--his
eyes brightened--he had discovered Count Corti. Swinging lightly from his saddle, he passed
with steps of glad impatience through the gateway.

Then to Count Corti came the most consuming trial of his adventurous life.

The light was still strong enough to enable him to see across the Church. Comprehending the
flourish of the heralds, he saw the man on horseback enter; and the mien, the pose in the saddle,
the rider's whole outward expose of spirit, informed him with such certainty as follows long
and familiar association, that Mahommed was come--Mahommed, his ideal of romantic orientalism
in arms. A tremor shook him--his cheek whitened. To that moment anxiety for the Princess had
held him so entirely he had not once thought of the consequences of the wager lost; now they
were let loose upon him. Having saved her from the hordes, now he must surrender her to a rival--now
she was to go from him forever. Verily it had been easier parting with his soul. He held to
his cimeter as men instantly slain sometimes keep grip on their weapons; yet his head sunk
upon his breast, and he saw nothing more of Mahommed until he stood before him inside the chancel.

"Count Corti, where is"--

Mahommed caught sight of the Count's face.

"Oh, my poor Mirza!"

A volume of words could not have so delicately expressed sympathy as did that altered tone.

Taking off his steel glove, the fitful Conqueror extended the bare hand, and the Count, partially
recalled to the situation by the gracious offer, sunk to his knees, and carried the hand to
his lips.

"I have kept the faith, my Lord," he said in Turkish, his voice scarcely audible. "This is
she behind me--upon the throne of her fathers. Receive her from me, and let me depart."

"My poor Mirza! We left the decision to God, and he has decided. Arise, and hear me now."

To the notables closing around, he said, imperiously: "Stand not back. Come up, and hear me."

Stepping past the Count, then, he stood before the Princess. She arose without removing her
veil, and would have knelt; but Mahommed moved nearer, and prevented her.

The training of the politest court in Europe was in her action, and the suite looking on, used
to slavishness in captives, and tearful humility in women, he held her with amazement; nor
could one of them have said which most attracted him, her queenly composure or her simple grace.

"Suffer me, my Lord," she said to him; then to her attendants: "This is Mahommed the Sultan.
Let us pray him for honorable treatment."

Presently they were kneeling, and she would have joined them, but Mahommed again interfered.

"Your hand, O Princess Irene! I wish to salute it."

Sometimes a wind blows out of the sky, and swinging the bell in the cupola, starts it to ringing
itself; so now, at sight of the only woman he ever really loved overtaken by so many misfortunes,
and actually threatened by a rabble of howling slave-hunters, Mahommed's better nature thrilled
with pity and remorse, and it was only by an effort of will he refrained from kneeling to her,
and giving his passion tongue. Nevertheless a kiss, though on the hand, can be made tell a
tale of love, and that was what the youthful Conqueror did.

"I pray next that you resume your seat," he continued. "It has pleased God, O daughter of a
Palaeologus, to leave you the head of the Greek people; and as I have the terms of a treaty
to submit of great concern to them and you, it were more becoming did you hear me from a throne....
And first, in this presence, I declare you a free woman--free to go or stay, to reject or to
accept--for a treaty is impossible except to sovereigns. If it be your pleasure to go, I pledge
conveyance, whether by sea or land, to you and yours--attendants, slaves, and property; nor
shall there be in any event a failure of moneys to keep you in the state to which you have
been used."

"For your grace, Lord Mahommed, I shall beseech Heaven to reward you."

"As the God of your faith is the God of mine, O Princess Irene, I shall be grateful for your
prayers.... In the next place, I entreat you to abide here; and to this I am moved by regard
for your happiness. The conditions will be strange to you, and in your going about there will
be much to excite comparisons of the old with the new; but the Arabs had once a wise man, El
Hatim by name--you may have heard of him"--he cast a quick look at the eyes behind the veil--"El
Hatim, a poet, a warrior, a physician, and he left a saying: 'Herbs for fevers, amulets for
mischances, and occupation for distempers of memory.' If it should be that time proves powerless
over your sorrows, I would bring employment to its aid.... Heed me now right well. It pains
me to think of Constantinople without inhabitants or commerce, its splendors decaying, its
palaces given over to owls, its harbor void of ships, its churches vacant except of spiders,
its hills desolations to eyes afar on the sea. If it become not once more the capital city
of Europe and Asia, some one shall have defeated the will of God; and I cannot endure that
guilt or the thought of it. 'Sins are many in kind and degree, differing as the leaves and
grasses differ,' says a dervish of my people; 'but for him who stands wilfully in the eyes
of the Most Merciful--for him only shall there be no mercy in the Great Day.'... Yes, heed
me right well--I am not the enemy of the Greeks, O Princess Irene. Their power could not agree
with mine, and I made war upon it; but now that Heaven has decided the issue, I wish to recall
them. They will not listen to me. Though I call loudly and often, they will remember the violence
inflicted on them in my name. Their restoration is a noble work in promise. Is there a Greek
of trust, and so truly a lover of his race, to help me make the promise a deed done? The man
is not; but thou, O Princess--thou art. Behold the employment I offer you! I will commission
you to bring them home--even these sorrowful creatures going hence in bonds. Or do you not
love them so much?... Religion shall not hinder you. In the presence of these, my ministers
of state, I swear to divide houses of God with you; half of them shall be Christian, the other
half Moslem; arid neither sect shall interfere with the other's worship. This I will seal,
reserving only this house, and that the Patriarch be chosen subject to my approval. Or do you
not love your religion so much?"....

During the discourse the Princess listened intently; now she would have spoken, but he lifted
his hand.

"Not yet, not yet! it is not well for you to answer now. I desire that you have time to consider--and
besides, I come to terms of more immediate concern to you.... Here, in the presence of these
witnesses, O Princess Irene, I offer you honorable marriage."

Mahommed bowed very low at the conclusion of this proposal.

"And wishing the union in conscience agreeable to you, I undertake to celebrate it according
to Christian rite and Moslem. So shall you become Queen of the Greeks--their intercessor--the
restorer and protector of their Church and worship--so shall you be placed in a way to serve
God purely and unselfishly; and if a thirst for glory has ever moved you, O Princess, I present
it to you a cupful larger than woman ever drank.... You may reside here or in Therapia, and
keep your private chapel and altar, and choose whom you will to serve them. And these things
I will also swear to and seal."

Again she would have interrupted him.

"No--bear with me for the once. I invoke your patience," he said. "In the making of treaties,
O Princess, one of the parties must first propose terms; then it is for the other to accept
or reject, and in turn propose. And this"--he glanced hurriedly around--"this is no time nor
place for argument. Be content rather to return to your home in the city or your country-house
at Therapia. In three days, with your permission, I will come for your answer; and whatever
it be, I swear by Him who is God of the world, it shall be respected.... When I come, will
you receive me?"

"The Lord Mahommed will be welcome."

"Where may I wait on you?"

"At Therapia," she answered.

Mahommed turned about then.

"Count Corti, go thou with the Princess Irene to Therapia. I know thou wilt keep her safely.--And
thou, Kalil, have a galley suitable for a Queen of the Greeks made ready on the instant, and
let there be no lack of guards despatched with it, subject to the orders of Count Corti, for
the time once more Mirza the Emir.... O Princess, if I have been peremptory, forgive me, and
lend me thy hand again. I wish to salute it."

Again she silently yielded to his request.

Kalil, seeing only politics in the scene, marched before the Princess clearing the way, and
directly she was out of the Church. At the suggestion of the Count, sedan chairs were brought,
and she and her half-stupefied companions carried to a galley, arriving at Therapia about the
fourth hour after sunset.

Mahommed had indeed been imperious in the interview; but, as he afterward explained to her,
with many humble protestations, he had a part to play before his ministers.

No sooner was she removed than he gave orders to clear the building of people and idolatrous
symbols; and while the work was in progress, he made a tour of inspection going from the floor
to the galleries. His wonder and admiration were unbounded.

Passing along the right-hand gallery, he overtook a pilferer with a tarbousche full of glass
cubes picked from one of the mosaic pictures.

"Thou despicable!" he cried, in rage. "Knowest thou not that I have devoted this house to Allah?
Profane a Mosque, wilt thou?"

And he struck the wretch with the flat of his sword. Hastening then to the chancel, he summoned
Achmet, the muezzin.

"What is the hour?" he asked.

"It is the hour of the fourth prayer, my Lord."

"Ascend thou then to the highest turret of the house, and call the Faithful to pious acknowledgment
of the favors of God and his Prophet-- may their names be forever exalted."

Thus Sancta Sophia passed from Christ to Mahomet; and from that hour to this Islam has had
sway within its walls. Not once since have its echoes been permitted to respond to a Christian
prayer or a hymn to the Virgin. Nor was this the first instance when, to adequately punish
a people for the debasement and perversions of his revelations, God, in righteous anger, tolerated
their destruction.

To-day there are two cities, lights once of the whole earth, under curses so deeply graven
in their remains--sites, walls, ruins--that every man and woman visiting them should be brought
to know why they fell.

Alas, for Jerusalem!

Alas, for Constantinople!

POSTSCRIPTS.

In the morning of the third day after the fall of the city, a common carrier galley drew alongside
the marble quay in front of the Princess' garden at Therapia, and landed a passenger--an old,
decrepit man, cowled and gowned like a monk. With tottering steps he passed the gate, and on
to the portico of the classic palace. Of Lysander, he asked: "Is the Princess Irene here or
in the city?"

"She is here."

"I am a Greek, tired and hungry. Will she see me?"

The ancient doorkeeper disappeared, but soon returned.

"She will see you. This way."

The stranger was ushered into the reception room. Standing before the Princess, he threw back
his cowl. She gazed at him a moment, then went to him and, taking his hands, cried, her eyes
streaming with tears: "Father Hilarion! Now praised be God for sending you to me in this hour
of uncertainty and affliction!"

Needless saying the poor man's trials ended there, and that he never again went cold, or hungry,
or in want of a place to lay his head.

But this morning, after breaking fast, he was taken into council, and the proposal of marriage
being submitted to him, he asked first:

"What are thy inclinations, daughter?"

And she made unreserved confession.

The aged priest spread his hands paternally over her head, and, looking upward, said solemnly:
"I think I see the Great Designer's purpose. He gave thee, O daughter, thy beauties of person
and spirit, and raised thee up out of unspeakable sorrows, that the religion of Christ should
not perish utterly in the East. Go forward in the way He has opened unto thee. Only insist
that Mahommed present himself at thy altar, and there swear honorable dealing with thee as
his wife, and to keep the treaty proposed by him in spirit and letter. Doth he those things
without reservation, then fear not. The old Greek Church is not all we would have it, but how
much better it is than irreligion; and who can now say what will happen once our people are
returned to the city?"

       *       *       *       *       *

In the afternoon, a boat with one rower touched at the same marble quay, and disembarked an
Arab. His face was a dusty brown, and he wore an abba such as children of the Desert affect.
His dark eyes were wonderfully bright, and his bearing was high, as might be expected in the
Sheik of a tribe whose camels were thousands to the man, and who dwelt in dowars with streets
after the style of cities. On his right forearm he carried a crescent-shaped harp of five strings,
inlaid with colored woods and mother of pearl.

"Does not the Princess Irene dwell here?" he asked.

Lysander, viewing him suspiciously, answered: "The Princess Irene dwells here."

"Wilt thou tell her one Aboo-Obeidah is at the door with a blessing and a story for her?"

The doorkeeper again disappeared, and, returning, answered, with evident misgivings, "The Princess
Irene prays you to come in."

Aboo-Obeidah tarried at the Therapian palace till night fell; and his story was an old one
then, but he contrived to make it new; even as at this day, though four hundred and fifty years
older than when he told it to the Princess, women of white souls, like hers, still listen to
it with downcast eyes and flushing cheeks--the only story which Time has kept and will forever
keep fresh and persuasive as in the beginning'.

They were married in her chapel at Therapia, Father Hilarion officiating. Thence, when the
city was cleansed of its stains of war, she went thither with Mahommed, and he proclaimed her
his Sultana at a feast lasting through many days.

And in due time he built for her the palace behind Point Demetrius, yet known as the Seraglio.
In other words, Mahommed the Sultan abided faithfully by the vows Aboo-Obeidah made for him.
GIBBON. ]

And so, with ampler means, and encouraged by Mahommed, the Princess Irene spent her life doing
good, and earned the title by which she became known amongst her countrymen--The Most Gracious
Queen of the Greeks.

Sergius never took orders formally. With the Sultana Irene and Father Hilarion, he preferred
the enjoyment and practice of the simple creed preached by him in Sancta Sophia, though as
between the Latins and the orthodox Greeks he leaned to the former. The active agent dispensing
the charities of his imperial benefactress, he endeared himself to the people of both religions.
Ere long, he married Lael, and they lived happily to old age.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nilo was found alive, and recovering, joined Count Corti.

       *       *       *       *       *

Count Corti retained the fraternal affection of Mahommed to the last. The Conqueror strove
to keep him. He first offered to send him ambassador to John Sobieski; that being declined,
he proposed promoting him chief Aga of Janissaries, but the Count declared it his duty to hasten
to Italy, and devote himself to his mother. The Sultan finally assenting, he took leave of
the Princess Irene the day before her marriage.

An officer of the court representing Mahommed conducted the Count to the galley built in Venice.
Upon mounting the deck he was met by the Tripolitans, her crew, and Sheik Hadifah, with his
fighting Berbers. He was then informed that the vessel and all it contained belonged to him.

The passage was safely made. From Brindisi he rode to Castle Corti. To his amazement, it was
completely restored. Not so much as a trace of the fire and pillage it had suffered was to be seen.

His reception by the Countess can be imagined. The proofs he brought were sufficient with her,
and she welcomed him with a joy heightened by recollections of the years he had been lost to
her, and the manifest goodness of the Blessed Madonna in at last restoring him--the joy one
can suppose a Christian mother would show for a son returned to her, as it were, from the grave.

The first transports of the meeting over, he reverted to the night he saw her enter the chapel:
"The Castle was then in ruins; how is it I now find it rebuilt?"

"Did you not order the rebuilding?"

"I knew nothing of it."

Then the Countess told him a man had presented himself some months prior, with a letter purporting
to be from him, containing directions to repair the Castle, and spare no expense in the work.

"Fortunately," she said, "the man is yet in Brindisi."

The Count lost no time in sending for the stranger, who presented him a package sealed and
enveloped in oriental style, only on the upper side there was a tughra, or imperial seal, which
he at once recognized as Mahommed's. With eager fingers he took off the silken wraps, and found
a note in translation as follows:

"Mahommed the Sultan to Ugo, Count Corti, formerly Mirza the Emir.

"The wager we made, O my friend, who should have been the son of my mother, is not yet decided,
and as it is not given a mortal to know the will of the Most Compassionate until he is pleased
to expose it, I cannot say what the end will be. Yet I love you, and have faith in you; and
wishing you to be so assured whether I win or lose, I send Mustapha to your country in advance
with proofs of your heirship, and to notify the noble lady, your mother, that you are alive,
and about returning to her. Also, forasmuch as a Turk destroyed it, he is ordered to rebuild
your father's castle, and add to the estate all the adjacent lands he can buy; for verily no
Countship can be too rich for the Mirza who was my brother. And these things he will do in
your name, not mine. And when it is done, if to your satisfaction, O Count, give him a statement
that he may come to me with evidence of his mission discharged.

"I commend you to the favor of the Compassionate. MAHOMMED."

When the missive was read, Mustapha knelt to the Count, and saluted him. Then he conducted
him into the chapel of the castle, and going to the altar, showed him an iron door, and said:

"My master, the Lord Mahommed, instructed me to deposit here certain treasure with which he
graciously intrusted me. Receive the key, I pray, and search the vault, and view the contents,
and, if it please you, give me a certificate which will enable me to go back to my country,
and live there a faithful servant of my master, the Lord Mahommed--may he be exalted as the
Faithful are!"

Now when the Count came to inspect the contents of the vault he was displeased; and seeing
it, Mustapha proceeded:

"My master, the Lord Mahommed, anticipated that you might protest against receiving the treasure;
if so, I was to tell you it was to make good in some measure the sums the noble lady your mother
has paid in searching for you, and in masses said for the repose of your father's soul."

Corti could not do else than accept.

Finally, to complete the narrative, he never married. The reasonable inference is, he never
met a woman with graces sufficient to drive the Princess Irene from his memory.

After the death of the Countess, his mother, he went up to Rome, and crowned a long service
as chief of the Papal Guard by dying of a wound received in a moment of victory. Hadifah, the
Berbers, and Nilo chose to stay with him throughout. The Tripolitans were returned to their
country; after which the galley was presented to the Holy Father.

Once every year there came to the Count a special messenger from Constantinople with souvenirs;
sometimes a sword royally enriched, sometimes a suit of rare armor, sometimes horses of El
Hajez--these were from Mahommed. Sometimes the gifts were precious relics, or illuminated Scriptures,
or rosaries, or crosses, or triptychs wonderfully executed-- so Irene the Sultana chose to
remind him of her gratitude.

Syama wandered around Constantinople a few days after the fall of the city, looking for his
master, whom he refused to believe dead. Lael offered him asylum for life. Suddenly he disappeared,
and was never seen or heard of more. It may be presumed, we think, that the Prince of India
succeeded in convincing him of his identity, and took him to other parts of the world--possibly
back to Cipango.

THE END.