BOOK III.

                        CONSPIRACY OF THE NOBLES

1565.  Up to this point the general peace had it appears been the sincere wish of the Prince
of Orange, the Counts Egmont and Horn, and their friends.  They had pursued the true interests
of their sovereign as much as the general weal; at least their exertions and their actions
had been as little at variance with the former as with the latter. Nothing bad as yet occurred
to make their motives suspected, or to manifest in them a rebellious spirit.  What they had
done they had done in discharge of their bounden duty as members of a free state, as the representatives
of the nation, as advisers of the king, as men of integrity and honor.  The only weapons they
had used to oppose the encroachments of the court had been remonstrances, modest complaints,
petitions.  They had never allowed themselves to be so far carried away by a just zeal for
their good cause as to transgress the limits of prudence and moderation which on many occasions
are so easily overstepped by party spirit.  But all the nobles of the republic did not now
listen to the voice of that prudence; all did not abide within the bounds of moderation.

While in the council of state the great question was discussed whether the nation was to be
miserable or not, while its sworn deputies summoned to their assistance all the arguments of
reason and of equity, and while the middle-classes and the people contented themselves with
empty complaints, menaces, and curses, that part of the nation which of all seemed least called
upon, and on whose support least reliance had been placed, began to take more active measures.
We have already described a class of the nobility whose services and wants Philip at his accession
had not considered it necessary to remember.  Of these by far the greater number had asked
for promotion from a much more urgent reason than a love of the mere honor.  Many of them were
deeply sunk in debt, from which by their own resources they could not hope to emancipate themselves.
When then, in filling up appointments, Philip passed them over he wounded them in a point far
more sensitive than their pride. In these suitors he had by his neglect raised up so many idle
spies and merciless judges of his actions, so many collectors and propagators of malicious
rumor.  As their pride did not quit them with their prosperity, so now, driven by necessity,
they trafficked with the sole capital which they could not alienate--their nobility and the
political influence of their names; and brought into circulation a coin which only in such
a period could have found currency--their protection.  With a self-pride to which they gave
the more scope as it was all they could now call their own, they looked upon themselves as
a strong intermediate power between the sovereign and the citizen, and believed themselves
called upon to hasten to the rescue of the oppressed state, which looked imploringly to them
for succor.  This idea was ludicrous only so far as their self-conceit was concerned in it;
the advantages which they contrived to draw from it were substantial enough.  The Protestant
merchants, who held in their hands the chief part of the wealth of the Netherlands, and who
believed they could not at any price purchase too dearly the undisturbed exercise of their
religion, did not fail to make use of this class of people who stood idle in the market and
ready to be hired.  These very men whom at any other time the merchants, in the pride of riches,
would most probably have looked down upon, now appeared likely to do them good service through
their numbers, their courage, their credit with the populace, their enmity to the government,
nay, through their beggarly pride itself and their despair.  On these grounds they zealously
endeavored to form a close union with them, and diligently fostered the disposition for rebellion,
while they also used every means to keep alive their high opinions of themselves, and, what
was most important, lured their poverty by well-applied pecuniary assistance and glittering
promises.  Few of them were so utterly insignificant as not to possess some influence, if not
personally, yet at least by their relationship with higher and more powerful nobles; and if
united they would be able to raise a formidable voice against the crown.  Many of them had
either already joined the new sect or were secretly inclined to it; and even those who were
zealous Roman Catholics had political or private grounds enough to set them against the decrees
of Trent and the Inquisition.  All, in fine, felt the call of vanity sufficiently powerful
not to allow the only moment to escape them in which they might possibly make some figure in
the republic.

But much as might be expected from the co-operation of these men in a body it would have been
futile and ridiculous to build any hopes on any one of them singly; and the great difficulty
was to effect a union among them.  Even to bring them together some unusual occurrence was
necessary, and fortunately such an incident presented itself.  The nuptials of Baron Montigny,
one of the Belgian nobles, as also those of the Prince Alexander of Parma, which took place
about this time in Brussels, assembled in that town a great number of the Belgian nobles. On
this occasion relations met relations; new friendships were formed and old renewed; and while
the distress of the country was the topic of conversation wine and mirth unlocked lips and
hearts, hints were dropped of union among themselves, and of an alliance with foreign powers.
These accidental meetings soon led to concealed ones, and public discussions gave rise to secret
consultations.  Two German barons, moreover, a Count of Holle and a Count of Schwarzenberg,
who at this time were on a visit to the Netherlands, omitted nothing to awaken expectations
of assistance from their neighbors.  Count Louis of Nassau, too, had also a short time before
visited several German courts to ascertain their sentiments.

     [It was not without cause that the Prince of Orange suddenly
     disappeared from Brussels in order to be present at the election of
     a king of Rome in Frankfort.  An assembly of so many German princes
     must have greatly favored a negotiation.]

It has even been asserted that secret emissaries of the Admiral Coligny were seen at this time
in Brabant, but this, however, may be reasonably doubted.

If ever a political crisis was favorable to an attempt at revolution it was the present.  A
woman at the helm of government; the governors of provinces disaffected themselves and disposed
to wink at insubordination in others; most of the state counsellors quite inefficient; no army
to fall back upon; the few troops there were long since discontented on account of the outstanding
arrears of pay, and already too often deceived by false promises to be enticed by new; commanded,
moreover, by officers who despised the Inquisition from their hearts, and would have blushed
to draw a sword in its behalf; and, lastly, no money in the treasury to enlist new troops or
to hire foreigners.  The court at Brussels, as well as the three councils, not only divided
by internal dissensions, but in the highest degree--venal and corrupt; the regent without full
powers to act on the spot, and the king at a distance; his adherents in the provinces few,
uncertain, and dispirited; the faction numerous and powerful; two-thirds of the people irritated
against popery and desirous of a change--such was the unfortunate weakness of the government,
and the more unfortunate still that this weakness was so well known to its enemies!

In order to unite so many minds in the prosecution of a common object a leader was still wanting,
and a few influential names to give political weight to their enterprise.  The two were supplied
by Count Louis of Nassau and Henry Count Brederode, both members of the most illustrious houses
of the Belgian nobility, who voluntarily placed themselves at the head of the undertaking.
Louis of Nassau, brother of the Prince of Orange, united many splendid qualities which made
him worthy of appearing on so noble and important a stage.  In Geneva, where he studied, he
had imbibed at once a hatred to the hierarchy and a love to the new religion, and on his return
to his native country had not failed to enlist proselytes to his opinions.  The republican
bias which his mind had received in that school kindled in him a bitter hatred of the Spanish
name, which animated his whole conduct and only left him with his latest breath.  Popery and
Spanish rule were in his mind identical-- as indeed they were in reality--and the abhorrence
which he entertained for the one helped to strengthen his dislike for the other.  Closely as
the brothers agreed in their inclinations and aversions the ways by which each sought to gratify
them were widely dissimilar.  Youth and an ardent temperament did not allow the younger brother
to follow the tortuous course through which the elder wound himself to his object. A cold,
calm circumspection carried the latter slowly but surely to his aim, and with a pliable subtilty
he made all things subserve his purpose; with a foolhardy impetuosity which overthrew all obstacles,
the other at times compelled success, but oftener accelerated disaster. For this reason William
was a general and Louis never more than an adventurer; a sure and powerful arm if only it were
directed by a wise head.  Louis' pledge once given was good forever; his alliances survived
every vicissitude, for they were mostly formed in the pressing moment of necessity, and misfortune
binds more firmly than thoughtless joy.  He loved his brother as dearly as he did his cause,
and for the latter he died.

Henry of Brederode, Baron of Viane and Burgrave of Utrecht, was descended from the old Dutch
counts who formerly ruled that province as sovereign princes.  So ancient a title endeared
him to the people, among whom the memory of their former lords still survived, and was the
more treasured the less they felt they had gained by the change.  This hereditary splendor
increased the self-conceit of a man upon whose tongue the glory of his ancestors continually
hung, and who dwelt the more on former greatness, even amidst its ruins, the more unpromising
the aspect of his own condition became.  Excluded from the honors and employments to which,
in his opinion, his own merits and his noble ancestry fully entitled him (a squadron of light
cavalry being all which was entrusted to him), he hated the government, and did not scruple
boldly to canvass and to rail at its measures.  By these means he won the hearts of the people.
He also favored in secret the evangelical belief; less, however, as a conviction of his better
reason than as an opposition to the government.  With more loquacity than eloquence, and more
audacity than courage, he was brave rather from not believing in danger than from being superior
to it.  Louis of Nassau burned for the cause which he defended, Brederode for the glory of
being its defender; the former was satisfied in acting for his party, the latter discontented
if he did not stand at its head.  No one was more fit to lead off the dance in a rebellion,
but it could hardly have a worse ballet-master.  Contemptible as his threatened designs really
were, the illusion of the multitude might have imparted to them weight and terror if it had
occurred to them to set up a pretender in his person.  His claim to the possessions of his
ancestors was an empty name; but even a name was now sufficient for the general disaffection
to rally round.  A pamphlet which was at the time disseminated amongst the people openly called
him the heir of Holland; and his engraved portrait, which was publicly exhibited, bore the
boastful inscription:--

               Sum Brederodus ego, Batavae non infima gentis
               Gloria, virtutem non unica pagina claudit.

(1565.) Besides these two, there were others also from among the most illustrious of the Flemish
nobles the young Count Charles of Mansfeld, a son of that nobleman whom we have found among
the most zealous royalists; the Count Kinlemburg; two Counts of Bergen and of Battenburg; John
of Marnix, Baron of Toulouse; Philip of Marnix, Baron of St. Aldegonde; with several others
who joined the league, which, about the middle of November, in the year 1565, was formed at
the house of Von Hammes, king at arms of the Golden Fleece.  Here it was that six men decided
the destiny of their country as formerly a few confederates consummated the liberty of Switzerland,
kindled the torch of a forty years' war, and laid the basis of a freedom which they themselves
were never to enjoy.  The objects of the league were set forth in the following declaration,
to which Philip of Marnix was the first to subscribe his name: "Whereas certain ill-disposed
persons, under the mask of a pious zeal, but in reality under the impulse of avarice and ambition,
have by their evil counsels persuaded our most gracious sovereign the king to introduce into
these countries the abominable tribunal of the Inquisition, a tribunal diametrically opposed
to all laws, human and divine, and in cruelty far surpassing the barbarous institutions of
heathenism; which raises the inquisitors above every other power, and debases man to a perpetual
bondage, and by its snares exposes the honest citizen to a constant fear of death, inasmuch
as any one (priest, it may be, or a faithless friend, a Spaniard or a reprobate), has it in
his power at any moment to cause whom he will to be dragged before that tribunal, to be placed
in confinement, condemned, and executed without the accused ever being allowed to face his
accuser, or to adduce proof of his innocence; we, therefore, the undersigned, have bound ourselves
to watch over the safety of our families, our estates, and our own persons.  To this we hereby
pledge ourselves, and to this end bind ourselves as a sacred fraternity, and vow with a solemn
oath to oppose to the best of our power the introduction of this tribunal into these countries,
whether it be attempted openly or secretly, and under whatever name it may be disguised.  We
at the same time declare that we are far from intending anything unlawful against the king
our sovereign; rather is it our unalterable purpose to support and defend the royal prerogative,
and to maintain peace, and, as far as lies in our power, to put down all rebellion.  In accordance
with this purpose we have sworn, and now again swear, to hold sacred the government, and to
respect it both in word and deed, which witness Almighty God!

"Further, we vow and swear to protect and defend one another, in all times and places, against
all attacks whatsoever touching the articles which are set forth in this covenant.  We hereby
bind ourselves that no accusation of any of our followers, in whatever name it may be clothed,
whether rebellion, sedition, or otherwise, shall avail to annul our oath towards the accused,
or absolve us from our obligation towards him.  No act which is directed against the Inquisition
can deserve the name of a rebellion.  Whoever, therefore, shall be placed in arrest on any
such charge, we here pledge ourselves to assist him to the utmost of our ability, and to endeavor
by every allowable means to effect his liberation.  In this, however, as in all matters, but
especially in the conduct of all measures against the tribunal of the Inquisition, we submit
ourselves to the general regulations of the league, or to the decision of those whom we may
unanimously appoint our counsellors and leaders.

"In witness hereof, and in confirmation of this our common league and covenant, we call upon
the holy name of the living God, maker of heaven and earth, and of all that are therein, who
searches the hearts, the consciences, and the thoughts, and knows the purity of ours.  We implore
the aid of the Holy Spirit, that success and honor may crown our undertaking, to the glory
of His name, and to the peace and blessing of our country!"

This covenant was immediately translated into several languages, and quickly disseminated through
the provinces.  To swell the league as speedily as possible each of the confederates assembled
all his friends, relations, adherents, and retainers.  Great banquets were held, which lasted
whole days--irresistible temptations for a sensual, luxurious people, in whom the deepest wretchedness
could not stifle the propensity for voluptuous living.  Whoever repaired to these banquets--and
every one was welcome--was plied with officious assurances of friendship, and, when heated
with wine, carried away by the example of numbers, and overcome by the fire of a wild eloquence.
The hands of many were guided while they subscribed their signatures; the hesitating were derided,
the pusillanimous threatened, the scruples of loyalty clamored down; some even were quite ignorant
what they were signing, and were ashamed afterwards to inquire.  To many whom mere levity brought
to the entertainment the general enthusiasm left no choice, while the splendor of the confederacy
allured the mean, and its numbers encouraged the timorous. Formed on the models of the 11th
and 12th centureies, but written in regular Italian miniscules of the 15th century.
Such description of the memoirs of the distinguished Venetian Admiral
Carlo Zeno (1334-1418),siblings of Nicolo and Antonio, the discoverers
of Ameria.  This
was done especially with a view of influencing the officers of the army, in order to be safe
in this quarter, if matters should come at last to violence.  The device succeeded with many,
especially with subalterns, and Count Brederode even drew his sword upon an ensign who wished
time for consideration.  Men of all classes and conditions signed it.  Religion made no difference.
Roman Catholic priests even were associates of the league.  The motives were not the same with
all, but the pretext was similar.  The Roman Catholics desired simply the abolition of the
Inquisition, and a mitigation of the edicts; the Protestants aimed at unlimited freedom of
conscience.  A few daring spirits only entertained so bold a project as the overthrow of the
present government, while the needy and indigent based the vilest hopes on a general anarchy.
A farewell entertainment, which about this time was given to the Counts Schwarzenberg and Holle
in Breda, and another shortly afterwards in Hogstraten, drew many of the principal nobility
to these two places, and of these several had already signed the covenant. The Prince of Orange,
Counts Egmont, Horn, and Megen were present at the latter banquet, but without any concert
or design, and without having themselves any share in the league, although one of Egmont's
own secretaries and some of the servants of the other three noblemen had openly joined it.
At this entertainment three hundred persons gave in their adhesion to the covenant, and the
question was mooted whether the whole body should present themselves before the regent armed
or unarmed, with a declaration or with a petition?  Horn and Orange (Egmont would not countenance
the business in any way) were called in as arbiters upon this point, and they decided in favor
of the more moderate and submissive procedure.  By taking this office upon them they exposed
themselves to the charge of having in no very covert manner lent their sanction to the enterprise
of the confederates.  In compliance, therefore, with their advice, it was determined to present
their address unarmed, and in the form of a petition, and a day was appointed on which they
should assemble in Brussels.

The first intimation the regent received of this conspiracy of the nobles was given by the
Count of Megen soon after his return to the capital.  "There was," he said, "an enterprise
on foot; no less than three hundred of the nobles were implicated in it; it referred to religion;
the members of it had bound themselves together by an oath; they reckoned much on foreign aid;
she would soon know more about it." Though urgently pressed, he would give her no further information.
"A nobleman," he said, "had confided it to him under the seal of secrecy, and he had pledged
his word of honor to him."  What really withheld him from giving her any further explanation
was, in all probability, not so much any delicacy about his honor, as his hatred of the Inquisition,
which he would not willingly do anything to advance. Soon after him, Count Egmont delivered
to the regent a copy of the covenant, and also gave her the names of the conspirators, with
some few exceptions.  Nearly about the same time the Prince of Orange wrote to her: "There
was, as he had heard, an army enlisted, four hundred officers were already named, and twenty
thousand men would presently appear in arms."  Thus the rumor was intentionally exaggerated,
and the danger was multiplied in every mouth.

The regent, petrified with alarm at the first announcement of these tidings, and guided solely
by her fears, hastily called together all the members of the council of state who happened
to be then in Brussels, and at the same time sent a pressing summons to the Prince of Orange
and Count Horn, inviting them to resume their seats in the senate.  Before the latter could
arrive she consulted with Egmont, Megen, and Barlaimont what course was to be adopted in the
present dangerous posture of affairs.  The question debated was whether it would be better
to have recourse to arms or to yield to the emergency and grant the demands of the confederates;
or whether they should be put off with promises, and an appearance of compliance, in order
to gain time for procuring instructions from Spain, and obtaining money and troops?  For the
first plan the requisite supplies were wanting, and, what was equally requisite, confidence
in the army, of which there seemed reason to doubt whether it had not been already gained by
the conspirators.  The second expedient would it was quite clear never be sanctioned by the
king; besides it would serve rather to raise than depress the courage of the confederates;
while, on the other hand, a compliance with their reasonable demands and a ready unconditional
pardon of the past would in all probability stifle the rebellion in the cradle.  The last opinion
was supported by Megen and Egmont but opposed by Barlaimont.  "Rumor," said the latter, "had
exaggerated the matter; it is impossible that so formidable an armament could have been prepared
so secretly and, so rapidly.  It was but a band of a few outcasts and desperadoes, instigated
by two or three enthusiasts, nothing more.  All will be quiet after a few heads have been struck
off."  The regent determined to await the opinion of the council of state, which was shortly
to assemble; in the meanwhile, however, she was not inactive.  The fortifications in the most
important places were inspected and the necessary repairs speedily executed; her ambassadors
at foreign courts received orders to redouble their vigilance; expresses were sent off to Spain.
At the same time she caused the report to be revived of the near advent of the king, and in
her external deportment put on a show of that imperturbable firmness which awaits attack without
intending easily to yield to it.  At the end of March (four whole months consequently from
the framing of the covenant), the whole state council assembled in Brussels.  There were present
the Prince of Orange, the Duke of Arschot, Counts Egmont, Bergen, Megen, Aremberg, Horn, Hosstraten,
Barlaimont, and others; the Barons Montigny and Hachicourt, all the knights of the Golden Fleece,
with the President Viglius, State Counsellor Bruxelles, and the other assessors of the privy
council.  Several letters were produced which gave a clearer insight into the nature and objects
of the conspiracy. The extremity to which the regent was reduced gave the disaffected a power
which on the present occasion they did not neglect to use. Venting their long suppressed indignation,
they indulged in bitter complaints against the court and against the government.  "But lately,"
said the Prince of Orange, "the king sent forty thousand gold florins to the Queen of Scotland
to support her in her undertakings against England, and he allows his Netherlands to be burdened
with debt. Not to mention the unseasonableness of this subsidy and its fruitless expenditure,
why should he bring upon us the resentment of a queen, who is both so important to us as a
friend and as an enemy so much to be dreaded?"  The prince did not even refrain on the present
occasion from glancing at the concealed hatred which the king was suspected of cherishing against
the family of Nassau and against him in particular. "It is well known," he said, "that he has
plotted with the hereditary enemies of my house to take away my life, and that he waits with
impatience only for a suitable opportunity."  His example opened the lips of Count Horn also,
and of many others besides, who with passionate vehemence descanted on their own merits and
the ingratitude of the king. With difficulty did the regent succeed in silencing the tumult
and in recalling attention to the proper subject of the debate.  The question was whether the
confederates, of whom it was now known that they intended to appear at court with a petition,
should be admitted or not? The Duke of Arschot, Counts Aremberg, Megen, and Barlaimont gave
their negative to the proposition.  "What need of five hundred persons," said the latter, "to
deliver a small memorial?  This paradox of humility and defiance implies no good.  Let them
send to us one respectable man from among their number without pomp, without assumption, and
so submit their application to us.  Otherwise, shut the gates upon them, or if some insist
on their admission let them be closely watched, and let the first act of insolence which any
one of them shall be guilty of be punished with death."  In this advice concurred Count Mansfeld,
whose own son was among the conspirators; he had even threatened to disinherit his son if he
did not quickly abandon the league.

Counts Megen, also, and Aremberg hesitated to receive the petition; the Prince of Orange, however,
Counts Egmont, Horn, Hogstraten, and others voted emphatically for it.  "The confederates,"
they declared, "were known to them as men of integrity and honor; a great part of them were
connected with themselves by friendship and relationship, and they dared vouch for their behavior. But
after the first look his expression become indiscernable. He swung around to see Dade standing
by him. Dade was still and palid; his body was crouched over and there was a cold malignant
expression on his face. Quickly, Calumet put both hands on the young man's shoulders and shoved
him against the bar, putting his own body in between Taggart and him.

"Easy there," he whispered harshly. "He's mine."

Dade caught the humorless smile on his lips and looked at him with curiosity, his attitude still hostile.

"The damned skunk, he is talking about Betty!" he objected. His voice was a low and raspy and
it did not carry reach the table where the three men lounged.

"He was talking about her," said Calumet with no expression on his face. "And I'll admit that
any man who speaks that way about a woman is a skunk. But it's my funeral," he added, his voice
icy and hard, "and you're not buttin' in, whatever happens. Get yourself another drink," he suggested;
"you look flustered. I'm going to talk with Taggart."

He left Dade ambling by the bar glancing at him wonderingly, and made his way slowly to Taggart's
table. Taggart was drinking when Calumet reached him, Dade stood tense, waiting for the imminent clash.

However none came. Calumet's nodded with a friendly grin to Taggart, his voice was soft, even--quite
nearly gentle.

"I heard one of these men call you Taggart," he said. "I imagine you're from the Arrow?"

Taggart leaned back in his chair and insolently studied his questioner. Calumet's expression made
his own pale a little.

"I'm Taggart," he said quickly--"Neal Taggart. What do you want of me?"

Calumet grinned. "Nothin' too much," he said. "I thought maybe you would like to know me. We're
neighbors after all. I'm Calumet Marston, of the Lazy Y."

The color drained entirely from Taggart's visage, leaving it with a strange pallor. He quickly
shoved back his chair and stood, his eyes alert and scared as his right hand inched slowly
toward the butt of the pistol slung at his hip. Calumet's right hand barely moved, but before
Taggart could get his weapon out of its holster he saw the metallic muzzle of a 45 glaring at him
from Calumet's hip and he quickly drew his own empty hand away.
"Darn," Calumet's voice broke out into the silence that had fallen--slowly
and quietly and with apparently genuine deprecation. "If I'd known
that you were going to get that excited I'd have broke the news different.
I don't know what you are gettin' at, getting your gun out that way.
I was hopin' we could be friends. We ought to since we're neighbors."
"Friends?" Taggart backed up a pace and looked at Calumet incredulously,
his eyes searching for signs of insincerity. He saw no signs, for
if Calumet had emotion at this minute it was too deeply hidden to
be uncovered with a glance. But he knew from Taggart's countenance
that he knew him to be the man he had shot at that day in the valley.
Obviously, he had not had any suspicion as to his identity at that
point in time, his surprise showed that he had not. And his half-scared,
confused looks at Calumet indicated to the latter that he was wondering
whether Calumet recognized him as the man who had done the shooting.
Calumet's smile was friendly, inviting, even slightly ingratiating,
and watching him closely Taggart was convinced that he had not been
recognized. Also he was certain that Calumet could not have learned
anything of their parents trouble. Yet Betty knew, and if Betty hadn't
told him there must be something between them--disgust or greed on
Betty's part--and a smirk appeared on his face when he remembered
that he had heard his father say that Calumet had been vicious and
wild in his youth. He must have disagreements with Betty.  Now all is changed; we now count as
many bishops as there are provinces.  Why should not the policy of the government adjust itself
to the altered circumstances of the times?  We want leniency, not severity.  The repugnance
of the people is manifest--this we must seek to appease if we would not have it burst out into
rebellion.  With the death of Pius IV. the full powers of the inquisitors have expired; the
new pope has as yet sent no ratification of their authority, without which no one formerly
ventured to exercise his office.  Now, therefore, is the time when it can be suspended without
infringing the rights of any party.

"What I have stated with regard to the Inquisition holds equally good in respect to the edicts
also. She has an employing distance with her that can curve even that (at lowest the many endurable
criterions of it) towards favour and prettiness. And within The Land Girl's Love Story (HODDER
AND STOUGHTON), a theme as soon as her own heart, she has granted ourselves what is, I think,
her greatest action so far. It is an excellent slender tale of two heroines whom took their patriotic
curve at the profession of the land army onto a Welsh farm, and the adventures, agricultural
and (of course) amorous, that befell them there.  Carried away by sympathy and admiration, men begin to weigh
in silence whether what is maintained with such invincible courage may not really be the truth.
In France and in England the same severities may have been inflicted on the Protestants, but
have they been attended with any better success there than here?  The very earliest Christians
boasted that the blood of the martyrs was the seed of the church.  The Emperor Julian, the
most terrible enemy that Christianity ever experienced, was fully persuaded of this.  Convinced
that persecution did but kindle enthusiasm he betook himself to ridicule and derision, and
found these weapons far more effective than force.  In the Greek empire different teachers
of heresy have arisen at different times.  Arius under Constantine, Aetius under Constantius,
Nestorius under Theodosius.  But even against these arch- heretics and their disciples such
cruel measures were never resorted to as are thought necessary against our unfortunate country--and
yet where are all those sects now which once a whole world, I had almost said, could not contain?
This is the natural course of heresy.  If it is treated with contempt it crumbles into insignificance.
It is as iron, which, if it lies idle, corrodes, and only becomes sharp by use.  Let no notice
be paid to it, and it loses its most powerful attraction, the magic of what is new and what
is forbidden.  Why will we not content ourselves with the measures which have been approved
of by the wisdom of such great rulers?  Example is ever the safest guide.

"But what need to go to pagan antiquity for guidance and example when we have near at hand
the glorious precedent of Charles V., the greatest of kings, who taught at last by experience,
abandoned the bloody path of persecution, and for many years before his abdication adopted
milder measures.  And Philip himself, our most gracious sovereign, seemed at first strongly
inclined to leniency until the counsels of Granvella and of others like him changed these views;
but with what right or wisdom they may settle between themselves.  To me, however, it has always
appeared indispensable that legislation to be wise and successful must adjust itself to the
manners and maxims of the times.  In conclusion, I would beg to remind you of the close understanding
which subsists between the Huguenots and the Flemish Protestants.  Let us beware of exasperating
them any further.  Let us not act the part of French Catholics towards them, lest they should
play the Huguenots against us, and, like the latter, plunge their country into the horrors
of a civil war." 

     The designs for the castle are attributed to Huntingdon Smithson,
     an architect noticed by Walpole. Smithson collected the materials
     for the castle from Italy and shipped them to the Duke of Newcastle.
     Unfortunately, Smithson did not live to see the completion of the
castle.  Barry, 174-178.
     Hopper, 72.  Strada, 123,124.]

