Florence was puzzled, but consented. "What you want to talk over here for?" she asked as she
came near her friend.

"Oh, I don't know," said Patty. "Let's go out in the front yard."

She led the way round the house, and a moment later uttered a cry of surprise as the firm of
Atwater & Rooter, passing along the pavement, hesitated at the gate. Their celebrated eyes
showed doubt for a moment, then a brazenness: Herbert and Henry decided to come in.

"Isn't this the funniest thing?" cried Patty. "After what I just said awhile ago--you know,
Florence. Don't you dare to tell 'em!"

"I cert'nly won't!" her hostess promised, and, turning inhospitably to the two callers, "What
on earth you want around here?" she inquired.

Herbert chivalrously took upon himself the duty of response. "Look here; this is my own aunt
and uncle's yard, isn't it? I guess if I want to come in it I got a perfect right to."

"I should say so," his partner said warmly.

"Why, of course!" the cordial Patty agreed. "We can play some nice Sunday games, or something.
Let's sit on the porch steps and think what to do."

"I just as soon," said Henry Rooter. "I got nothin' p'ticular to do."

"I haven't either," said Herbert.

Thereupon, Patty sat between them on the steps.

"This is per-feckly grand!" she cried. "Come on, Florence, aren't you going to sit down with
all the rest of us?"

"Well, pray kindly excuse me!" said Miss Atwater; and she added that she would neither sit
on the same steps with Herbert Atwater and Henry Rooter, nor, even if they entreated her with
accompanying genuflections, would she have anything else whatever to do with them. She concluded
with a reference to the oldest pair of shoes she might ever come to possess; and withdrew to
the railing of the veranda at a point farthest from the steps; and, seated there, swinging
one foot rhythmically, she sang hymns in a tone at once plaintive and inimical.

It was not lost upon her, however, that her withdrawal had little effect upon her guests. They
chattered gaily, and Patty devised, or remembered, harmless little games that could be played
by a few people as well as by many; and the three participants were so congenial and noisy
and made so merry, that before long Florence was unable to avoid the impression that whether
she liked it or not she was giving quite a party.

At times the noted eyes of Atwater & Rooter were gentled o'er with the soft cast of enchantment,
especially when Patty felt called upon to reprove the two with little coquetries of slaps and
pushes. Noted for her sprightliness, she was never sprightlier; her pretty laughter tooted
continuously, and the gentlemen accompanied it with doting sounds so repulsive to Florence
that without being actively conscious of what she did, she embodied the phrase, "perfeckly
sickening," in the hymn she was crooning, and repeated it over and over to the air of "Rock
of Ages."

"Now I tell you what let's play," the versatile Patty proposed, after exhausting the pleasures
of "Geography," "Ghosts" and other tests of intellect. "Let's play 'Truth.' We'll each take
a piece o' paper and a pencil, and then each of us asks the other one some question, and we
haf to write down the answer and sign your name and fold it up so nobody can see it except
the one that asked the question, and we haf to keep it a secret and never tell as long as we live."

"All right," said Henry Rooter. "I'll be the one to ask you a question, Patty."

"No," Herbert said promptly. "I ought to be the one to ask Patty."

"Why ought you?" Henry demanded. "Why ought you?"

"Listen!" Patty cried, "I know the way we'll do. I'll ask each of you a question--we haf to
whisper it--and each one of you'll ask me one, and then we'll write it. That'll be simply grand!"
She clapped her hands; then checked herself. "Oh, I guess we can't either. We haven't got any
paper and pencils unless----" Here she seemed to recall her hostess. "Oh, Florrie, dear! Run
in the house and get us some paper and pencils."

Florence gave no sign other than to increase the volume of her voice as she sang: "Perf'ly
sick'ning, clef' for me, let me perf'ly sick-kin-ning!"

"We got plenty," said Herbert; whereupon he and Henry produced pencils and their professional
note-books, and supplied their fair friend and themselves with material for "Truth." "Come
on, Patty, whisper me whatever you want to."

"No; I ought to have her whisper me, first," Henry Rooter objected. "I'll write the answer
to any question; I don't care what it's about."

"Well, it's got to be the truth, you know," Patty warned them. "We all haf to write down just
exackly the truth on our word of honour and sign our name. Promise?"

They promised earnestly.

"All right," said Patty. "Now I'll whisper Henry a question first, and then you can whisper
yours to me first, Herbert."

This seemed to fill all needs happily, and the whispering and writing began, and continued
with a coziness little to the taste of the piously singing Florence. She altered all previous
opinions of her friend Patty, and when the latter finally closed the session on the steps,
and announced that she must go home, the hostess declined to accompany her into the house to
help her find where she had left her hat and wrap.

"I haven't the least idea where I took 'em off!" Patty declared in the airiest manner. "If
you won't come with me, Florrie, s'pose you just call in the front door and tell your mother
to get 'em for me."

"Oh, they're somewhere in there," Florence said coldly, not ceasing to swing her foot, and
not turning her head. "You can find 'em by yourself, I presume, or if you can't I'll have our
maid throw 'em out in the yard or somep'n to-morrow."

"Well, thank you!" Miss Fairchild rejoined, as she entered the house.

The two boys stood waiting, having in mind to go with Patty as far as her own gate. "That's
a pretty way to speak to company!" Herbert addressed his cousin with heavily marked severity.
"Next time you do anything like that I'll march straight in the house and inform your mother
of the fact."

Florence still swung her foot and looked dreamily away. She sang, to the air of "Rock of Ages":

"Henry Rooter, Herbert, too--they make me sick, they make me sick, that's what they do."

However, they were only too well prepared with their annihilating response.

"Oh, say not so! Florence, say not so! Florence! Say not so!"

They even sent this same odious refrain back to her from the street, as they departed with
their lovely companion; and, so tenuous is feminine loyalty sometimes, under these stresses,
Miss Fairchild mingled her sweet, tantalizing young soprano with their changing and cackling
falsetto.

"Say not so, Florence! Oh, say not so! Say not so!"

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

They went satirically down the street, their chumminess with one another bountifully increased
by their common derision of the outsider on the porch; and even at a distance they still contrived
to make themselves intolerable; looking back over their shoulders, at intervals, with say-not-so
expressions on their faces. Even when these faces were far enough away to be but yellowish
oval planes, their say-not-so expressions were still bitingly eloquent.

Now a northern breeze chilled the air, as the hateful three became indistinguishable in the
haze of autumn dusk, whereupon Florence stopped swinging her foot, left the railing, and went
morosely into the house. And here it was her fortune to make two discoveries vital to her present
career; the first arising out of a conversation between her father and mother in the library,
where a gossipy fire of soft coal encouraged this proper Sunday afternoon entertainment for
man and wife.

"Sit down and rest, Florence," said her mother. "I'm afraid you play too hard when Patty and
the boys are here. Do sit down quietly and rest yourself a little while." And as Florence obeyed,
Mrs. Atwater turned to her husband, resuming: "Well, that's what I said. I told Aunt Carrie
I thought the same way about it that you did. Of course nobody ever knows what Julia's going
to do next, and nobody needs to be surprised at anything she does do. Ever since she came home
from school, about four-fifths of all the young men in town have been wild about her--and so's
every old bachelor, for the matter of that!"

"Yes," Mr. Atwater added. "And every old widower, too."

His wife warmly accepted the amendment. "And every old widower, too," she said, nodding. "Rather!
And of course Julia's just done exactly as she pleased about everything, and naturally she's
going to do as she pleases about this."

"Well, of course it's her own affair, Mollie," Mr. Atwater said mildly. "She couldn't be expected
to consult the whole Atwater family connection before she----"

"Oh, no," she agreed. "I don't say she could. Still, it is rather upsetting, coming so suddenly
like this, when not one of the family has ever seen him--never even heard his very name before."

"Well, that part of it isn't especially strange, Mollie. He was born and brought up in a town
three hundred miles from here. I don't see just how we could have heard his name unless he
visited here or got into the papers in some way."

Mrs. Atwater seemed unwilling to yield a mysterious point. She rocked decorously in her rocking-chair,
shook her head, and after setting her lips rigidly, opened them to insist that she could never
change her mind: Julia had acted very abruptly. "Why couldn't she have let her poor father
know at least a few days before she did?"

Mr. Atwater sighed. "Why, she explains in her letter that she only knew it, herself, an hour
before she wrote."

"Her poor father!" his wife repeated commiseratingly.

"Why, Mollie, I don't see how father's especially to be pitied."

"Don't you?" said Mrs. Atwater. "That old man, to have to live in that big house all alone,
except a few negro servants?"

"Why, no! About half the houses in the neighbourhood, up and down the street, are fully occupied
by close relatives of his: I doubt if he'll be really as lonely as he'd like to be. And he's
often said he'd give a great deal if Julia had been a plain, unpopular girl. I'm strongly of
the opinion, myself, that he'll be pleased about this. Of course it may upset him a little
at first."

"Yes; I think it will!" Mrs. Atwater shook her head forebodingly. "And he isn't the only one
it's going to upset."

"No, he isn't," her husband admitted seriously. "That's always been the trouble with Julia;
she never could bear to seem disappointing; and so, of course, I suppose every one of 'em has
a special idea that he's really about the top of the list with her."

"Every last one of 'em is positive of it," said Mrs. Atwater. "That was Julia's way with 'em!"

"Yes, Julia's always been much too kind-hearted for other people's good." Thus Mr. Atwater
summed up Julia; and he was her brother. Additionally, since he was the older, he had known
her since her birth.

"If you ask me," said his wife, "I'll really be surprised if it all goes through without a
suicide."

"Oh, not quite suicide, perhaps," Mr. Atwater protested. "I'm glad it's a fairly dry town though."

She failed to fathom his simple meaning. "Why?"

"Well, some of 'em might feel that desperate at least," he explained. "Prohibition's a safeguard
for the disappointed in love."

This phrase and a previous one stirred Florence, who had been sitting quietly, according to
request, and "resting", but not resting her curiosity. "Who's disappointed in love, papa?"
she inquired with an explosive eagerness that slightly startled her preoccupied parents. "What
is all this about Aunt Julia, and grandpa goin' to live alone, and people committing suicide
and prohibition and everything? What is all this, mamma?"

"Nothing, Florence."

"Nothing! That's what you always say about the very most inter'sting things that happen in
the whole family! What is all this, papa?"

"It's nothing that would be interesting to little girls, Florence. Merely some family matters."

"My goodness!" Florence exclaimed. "I'm not a 'little girl' any more, papa! You're always forgetting
my age! And if it's a family matter I belong to the family, I guess, about as much as anybody
else, don't I? Grandpa himself isn't any more one of the family than I am, I don't care how
old he is!"

This was undeniable, and her father laughed. "It's really nothing you'd care about one way
or the other," he said.

"Well, I'd care about it if it's a secret," Florence insisted. "If it's a secret I'd want to
know it, whatever it's about."

"Oh, it isn't a secret, particularly, I suppose. At least, it's not to be made public for a
time; it's only to be known in the family."

"Well, didn't I just prove I'm as much one o' the family as----"

"Never mind," her father said soothingly. "I don't suppose there's any harm in your knowing
it--if you won't go telling everybody. Your Aunt Julia has just written us that she's engaged."

Mrs. Atwater uttered an exclamation, but she was too late to check him.

"I'm afraid you oughtn't to have told Florence. She isn't just the most discreet----"

"Pshaw!" he laughed. "She certainly is 'one of the family', however, and Julia wrote that all
of the family might be told. You'll not speak of it outside the family, will you, Florence?"

But Florence was not yet able to speak of it, even inside the family; so surprising, sometimes,
are parents' theories of what will not interest their children. She sat staring, her mouth
open, and in the uncertain illumination of the room these symptoms of her emotional condition
went unobserved.

"I say, you won't speak of Julia's engagement outside the family, will you, Florence?"

"Papa!" she gasped. "Did Aunt Julia write she was engaged?"

"Yes."

"To get married?"

"It would seem so."

"To who?"

"'To whom,' Florence," her mother suggested primly.

"Mamma!" the daughter cried. "Who's Aunt Julia engaged to get married to? Noble Dill?"

"Good gracious, no!" Mrs. Atwater exclaimed. "What an absurd idea! It's to a young man in the
place she's visiting--a stranger to all of us. Julia only met him a few weeks ago." Here she
forgot Florence, and turned again to her husband, wearing her former expression of experienced
foreboding.

"It's just as I said. It's exactly like Julia to do such a reckless thing!"

"But as we don't know anything at all about the young man," he remonstrated, "how do you know
it's reckless?"

"How do you know he's young?" Mrs. Atwater retorted crisply. "All in the world she said about
him was that he's a lawyer. He may be a widower, for all we know, or divorced, with seven or
eight children."

"Oh, no, Mollie!"

"Why, he might!" she insisted. "For all we know, he may be a widower for the third or fourth
time, or divorced, with any number of children! If such a person proposed to Julia, you know
yourself she'd hate to be disappointing!"

Her husband laughed. "I don't think she'd go so far as to actually accept 'such a person' and
write home to announce her engagement to the family. I suppose most of her swains here have
been in the habit of proposing to her just as frequently as she was unable to prevent them
from going that far; and while I don't think she's been as discouraging with them as she might
have been, she's never really accepted any of 'em. She's never been engaged before."

"No," Mrs. Atwater admitted. "Not to this extent! She's never quite announced it to the family
before, that is."

"Yes; I'd hate to have Julia's job when she comes back!" Julia's brother admitted ruefully.

"What job?"

"Breaking it to her admirers."

"Oh, she isn't going to do that!"

"She'll have to, now," he said. "She'll either have to write the news to 'em, or else tell
'em, face to face, when she comes home."

"She won't do either."

"Why, how could she get out of it?"

His wife smiled pityingly. "She hasn't set a time for coming home, has she? Don't you know
enough of Julia's ways to see she'll never in the world stand up to the music? She writes that
all the family can be told, because she knows the news will leak out, here and there, in confidence,
little by little, so by the time she gets home they'll all have been through their first spasms,
and after that she hopes they'll just send her some forgiving flowers and greet her with manly
hand-clasps--and get ready to usher at the wedding!"

"Well," said Mr. Atwater, "I'm afraid you're right. It does seem rather like Julia to stay
away till the first of the worst is over. I'm really sorry for some of 'em. I suppose it will
get whispered about, and they'll hear it; and there are some of the poor things that might
take it pretty hard."

"'Take it pretty hard!'" his wife echoed loudly. "There's one of 'em, at least, who'll just
merely lose his reason!"

"Which one?"

"Noble Dill."

At this, the slender form of Florence underwent a spasmodic seizure in her chair, but as the
fit was short and also noiseless, it passed without being noticed.

"Yes," said Mr. Atwater thoughtfully. "I suppose he will."

"He certainly will!" Mrs. Atwater declared. "Noble's mother told me last week that he'd got
so he was just as liable to drop a fountain-pen in his coffee as a lump of sugar; and when
any one speaks to him he either doesn't know it, or else jumps. When he says anything, himself,
she says they can scarcely ever make out what he's talking about. He was trying enough before
Julia went away; but since she's been gone Mrs. Dill says he's like nothing in her experience.
She says he doesn't inherit it; Mr. Dill wasn't anything like this about her."

Mr. Atwater smiled faintly. "Mrs. Dill wasn't anything like Julia."

"No," said his wife. "She was quite a sensible girl. I'd hate to be in her place now, though,
when she tells Noble about this."

"How can Mrs. Dill tell him, since she doesn't know it herself?"

"Well--perhaps she ought to know it, so that she could tell him. Somebody ought to tell him,
and it ought to be done with the greatest tact. It ought to be broken to him with the most
delicate care and sympathy, or the consequences----"

"Nobody could foretell the consequences," her husband interrupted:--"no matter how tactfully
it's broken to Noble."

"No," she said, "I suppose that's true. I think the poor thing's likely to lose his reason
unless it is done tactfully, though."

"Do you think we really ought to tell Mrs. Dill, Mollie? I mean, seriously: Do you?"

For some moments she considered his question, then replied, "No. It's possible we'd be following
a Christian course in doing it; but still we're rather bound not to speak of it outside the
family, and when it does get outside the family I think we'd better not be the ones responsible--especially
since it might easily be traced to us. I think it's usually better to keep out of things when
there's any doubt."

"Yes," he said, meditating. "I never knew any harm to come of people's sticking to their own
affairs."

