... As Lord John Russell will have the honour of seeing your Majesty to-morrow, he will be
able to explain to your Majesty the present state of the discussions on Reform, and the progress
of the Measure.[33] Lord Aberdeen feels it to be his duty to inform your Majesty that on Saturday
evening he received a visit from Lord Palmerston, who announced his decided objection to the
greater part of the proposed plan.[34] He did this in such positive terms that Lord Aberdeen
should imagine he had made up his mind not to give the Measure his support; but Lord John entertains
considerable doubt that such is the case.

Lord Aberdeen thinks it by no means improbable that Lord Palmerston may also desire to separate
himself from the Government, in consequence of their pacific policy, and in order to take the
lead of the War Party and the Anti-Reformers in the House of Commons, who are essentially the
same. Such a combination would undoubtedly be formidable; but Lord Aberdeen trusts that it
would not prove dangerous. At all events, it would tend greatly to the improvement of Lord
John's Foreign Policy.

    [Footnote 33: On the 19th of November Lord John had written to
    the Queen outlining the Reform proposals of the Committee of
    the Cabinet. The Queen subsequently wrote to make additional
    suggestions, e.g., for finding a means of bringing into the
    House official persons or men without local connections, and
    for dealing with Ministerial re-elections.]

    [Footnote 34: Lord Palmerston wrote to Lord Lansdowne, giving
    an account of the affair:--

    "CARLTON GARDENS, 8th December 1853.

    "MY DEAR LANSDOWNE,--I have had two conversations with
    Aberdeen on the subject of John Russell's proposed Reform
    Bill, and I have said that there are three points in it to
    which I cannot agree.

    "These points are--the extent of disfranchisement, the
    extent of enfranchisement, and the addition of the Municipal
    Franchise in Boroughs to the £10 Householder Franchise....

    "We should by such an arrangement increase the number of
    bribeable Electors, and overpower intelligence and property by
    ignorance and poverty.

    "I have told Aberdeen that I am persuaded that the Measure as
    proposed by John Russell and Graham will not pass through the
    two Houses of Parliament without material modifications, and
    that I do not choose to be a party to a contest between the
    two Houses or to an Appeal to the Country for a Measure of
    which I decidedly disapprove; and that I cannot enter into a
    career which would lead me to such a position, that, in
    short, I do not choose to be dragged through the dirt by John
    Russell. I reminded Aberdeen that on accepting his offer of
    Office, I had expressed apprehension both to him and to you,
    that I might find myself differing from my Colleagues on the
    question of Parliamentary Reform.

    "I have thought a good deal on this matter. I should be very
    sorry to give up my present Office at this moment: I have
    taken a great interest in it, and I have matters in hand which
    I should much wish to bring to a conclusion. Moreover, I
    think that the presence in the Cabinet of a person holding the
    opinions which I entertain as to the principles on which our
    Foreign Affairs ought to be conducted, is useful in modifying
    the contrary system of Policy, which, as I think, injuriously
    to the interests and dignity of the Country, there is a
    disposition in other quarters to pursue; but notwithstanding
    all this. I cannot consent to stand forward as one of the
    Authors and Supporters of John Russell's sweeping alterations.
    Yours sincerely,

    PALMERSTON."]

[Pageheading: LORD PALMERSTON'S POSITION]

The Prince Albert to the Earl of Aberdeen.

OSBORNE, 9th December 1853.

MY DEAR LORD ABERDEEN,--The Queen has consulted with Lord John Russell upon the Reform plan,
and on the question of Lord Palmerston's position with regard to it; and he will doubtless
give you an account of what passed. She wishes me, however, to tell you likewise what strikes
her with respect to Lord Palmerston. It appears to the Queen clear that the Reform Bill will
have no chance of success unless prepared and introduced in Parliament by a united Cabinet;
that, if Lord Palmerston has made up his mind to oppose it and to leave the Government, there
will be no use in trying to keep him in it, and that there will be danger in allowing him to
attend the discussions of the Cabinet, preparing all the time his line of attack; that if a
successor to him would after all have to be found at the Home Office, it will be unfair not
to give that important member of the Government full opportunity to take his share in the preparation
and deliberation on the measure to which his consent would be asked. Under these circumstances
it becomes of the highest importance to ascertain--

1. What the amount of objection is that Lord Palmerston entertains to the Measure;

2. What the object of the declaration was, which he seems to have made to you.

This should be obtained in writing, so as to make all future misrepresentation impossible,
and on this alone a decision can well be taken, and, in the Queen's opinion, even the Cabinet
could alone deliberate.

Should Lord Palmerston have stated his objections with the view of having the Measure modified
it will be right to consider how far that can safely be done, and for the Queen, also, to balance
the probable value of the modification with the risk of allowing Lord Palmerston to put himself
at the head of the Opposition Party, entailing as it does the possibility of his forcing himself
back upon her as leader of that Party.

Should he on the other hand consider his declaration as a "notice to quit," the ground upon
which he does so should be clearly put on record, and no attempt should be made to damage the
character of the Measure in the vain hope of propitiating him. Ever yours truly,

ALBERT.

[Pageheading: LORD PALMERSTON RESIGNS]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

OSBORNE, 16th December 1853.

Lord Aberdeen arrived yesterday and returned to-day to meet the Cabinet to-morrow. Lord Palmerston
has sent in his resignation in a short note to Lord Aberdeen, a further correspondence with
Lord John and Lord Lansdowne, Lord Aberdeen put into my hands, and I have copied the two most
important letters which follow here.

Lord John is reported as very angry, calling Lord Palmerston's conduct "treacherous," a term
Lord Aberdeen hardly understands, as against him he has been perfectly consistent with regard
to the Reform Measure, from the beginning, and had frequently denied the necessity of Reform....
Lord Aberdeen had advised Lord John to show boldness and energy, and to undertake the Home
Office at once himself; this would have a great effect under the difficulties of the circumstances,
would show that he was in earnest and determined to carry his Reform Measure. Lord John seemed
hit by the idea, but asked for time to consider; after seeing Lady John, however, he declined.

Lord Aberdeen's fears are still mainly as to the Eastern Question, Lord John pressing for war
measures. Lord Aberdeen had followed my advice, and had a long explanation on the subject,
in which they both agreed that their policy should be one of Peace, and he thought matters
settled when Lord John now asks for contingent engagements to make war on Russia if her forces
cross the Danube (which Lord Aberdeen thinks quite uncalled for), and to convoy the Turkish
expeditions in the Black Sea, even if directed against Russian territory, etc., etc. The Cabinet
is certain not to agree to either of these propositions.

When Lord Aberdeen announced the intended rupture with Lord Palmerston to Lord John, he drily
said: "Well, it would be very awkward for you if Palmerston quarrels one day with you about
Reform, and I the next about Turkey!"

There can be no doubt that Lord Palmerston will at once try to put himself at the head of the
late Protectionist party, and, with the present indifference of the Country upon Reform, the
fate of the Bill is by no means certain. On the question of Peace or War, Lord Aberdeen is
quite certain that the House of Commons will adopt no war resolutions.

Much will depend, however, on the line taken by Lord Lansdowne, who has great influence in
the House of Lords, and whose secession would spread great alarm over the Country as to the
real tendency of the Measure (which the Duke of Newcastle describes as in fact a great increase
of power to the land[35]). We agree that the Queen should write to him to prevent any hasty step.

The Queen sanctioned the offer of the Home Office to Sir George Grey, and of a seat in the
Cabinet to Mr Cardwell (the President of the Board of Trade).

ALBERT.

    [Footnote 35: I.e., the landed interest.]

[Pageheading: LORD LANSDOWNE AND REFORM]

Queen Victoria to the Marquis of Lansdowne.

OSBORNE, 16th December 1853.

The Queen has been made very anxious by the Resignation of Lord Palmerston, but still more
so by hearing that Lord Lansdowne has not been able to reconcile himself to the Measure of
Reform as now proposed in the Cabinet, which has caused Lord Palmerston's withdrawal. Lord
Lansdowne is aware of the paramount importance which the Queen attaches to a safe settlement
of that question, and to the maintenance of her present Government; and she would press upon
Lord Lansdowne not to commit himself to a final determination before she shall have an opportunity
of seeing him. The Queen will go to Windsor on Thursday, and hold a Council on Friday, at which
it may perhaps be convenient to Lord Lansdowne to attend, and it will give the Queen the greatest
pleasure to find that Lord John Russell has succeeded in removing Lord Lansdowne's objections.

[Pageheading: LORD STRATFORD'S DESPATCH]

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Clarendon.

OSBORNE, 17th December 1853.

The Queen returns the enclosed Draft and Despatch to Lord Clarendon.

She has never been so much perplexed respecting any decision she has had to make, as in the
present instance. She has read Lord Stratford's Despatch (358) over several times, and she
is struck, every time more, with the consummate ability with which it is written and argued;
but also with the difficulty in which it places the person reading it to extract distinctly
what the Porte will be prepared to concede.

The concluding passage of the Draft involves the most important consequences. As the Queen
understands it, it promises war with Russia in a given contingency, but the contingency is:
Russia rejecting terms which are "in their spirit and character such as Your Excellency sets
forth in your Despatch." The Queen finds it impossible to make such tremendous consequences
dependent upon such vague expressions. The more so, as "the spirit and character" alluded to,
appears to her to be, as if purposely, obscure.

When Lord Stratford says, that the Turks would be satisfied "with a renewal in clear and comprehensive
terms of the formal Declarations and Treaties already existing in favour of the Porte"--the
Queen cannot understand what is meant--as all the former Treaties between Russia and Turkey
have certainly not been in favour of the Porte. Nor is it clear to the Queen whether "the clear
and unquestionable deliverance from Russian interference applied to spiritual matters" is compatible
with the former treaties.

Whilst the Queen, therefore, perfectly agrees in the principle that, should Russia "for its
own unjustifiable objects, show herself regardless of the best interests of Europe" by rejecting
every fair term, the time will have arrived "for adopting measures of more active coercion
against her"--she cannot sanction such a Declaration except on terms which are so clear in
themselves as to exclude all misinterpretation.

[Pageheading: SINOPE]

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Clarendon.

(Undated.)

The Queen has received Lord Clarendon's letter of the 19th, and enclosures. She approves the
Draft to Vienna, and asks to have a copy of it, together with the Despatch from Lord Westmorland
to which it refers.

She also approves of the Draft to Lord Cowley, with certain exceptions, viz., on the second
page our accordance with the views of the French Government "upon the utterly unjustifiable
course that Russia has pursued," etc., is stated. If, as the Queen must read it, this refers
to the affair at Sinope,[36] it is a dangerous assertion, as we have yet no authentic account
of the circumstances of the case, which would make it possible to judge what degree of justification
there might have been. The sentence should, at any rate, be qualified by some expression such
as "as far as we know," or "should present accounts prove correct," etc.

The word "utterly" might under any circumstances be left out, as a state of War is in itself
a justification of a battle.

On page four the words "by sea" will have to be added to make the statement precise and correct.

The concluding sentence, the Queen must consider as tantamount to a declaration of war, which,
under the guarded conditions however attached to it, she feels she cannot refuse to sanction.
It would, in the Queen's opinion, be necessary, however, distinctly and fully to acquaint the
Russian Government with the step now agreed upon.

Lord Palmerston's mode of proceeding always had that advantage, that it threatened steps which
it was hoped would not become necessary, whilst those hitherto taken, started on the principle
of not needlessly offending Russia by threats, obliging us at the same time to take the very
steps which we refused to threaten.

The Queen has to make one more and a most serious observation. The Fleet has orders now to
prevent a recurrence of such disasters as that of Sinope. This cannot mean that it should protect
the Turkish Fleet in acts of aggression upon the Russian territory, such as an attack on Sebastopol,
of which the papers speak. This point will have to be made quite clear, both to Lord Stratford
and the Turks.

The Queen would also wish to have copies of the Draft, when corrected, of Lord Cowley's Despatch.

    [Footnote 36: On the 30th of November the Russian Fleet from
    Sevastopol attacked the Turkish squadron in the harbour of
    Sinope, a naval station in the Black Sea, and destroyed it.
    The feeling in the country against Russia was greatly inflamed
    by the incident, which was referred to as the "massacre of
    Sinope."]

[Pageheading: PUBLIC FEELING]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 25th December 1853.

Lord Aberdeen had an Audience of the Queen yesterday afternoon. He reported that some of his
colleagues, Sir C. Wood, the Duke of Newcastle, and Mr Gladstone, had been very anxious that
Lord Palmerston should be readmitted into the Cabinet; they had had interviews with him in
which he had expressed his hope to be allowed to reconsider his step. Lady Palmerston had been
most urgent upon this point with her husband. All the people best conversant with the House
of Commons stated that the Government had no chance of going on with Lord Palmerston in opposition,
and with the present temper of the public, which was quite mad about the Oriental Question
and the disaster at Sinope. Even Sir W. Molesworth shared this opinion.

Lord Palmerston had written a letter to Lord Aberdeen, in which he begs to have his resignation
considered as not having taken place, as it arose entirely from a misapprehension on his part,
his having believed that none of the details of the Reform Measure were yet open for consideration,
he had quite agreed in the principle of the Measure! Lord Aberdeen saw Lord John and Sir J.
Graham, who convinced themselves that under the circumstances nothing else remained to be done.
Lord Aberdeen having asked Lord John whether he should tell the Queen that it was a political
necessity, he answered: "Yes, owing to the shabbiness of your colleagues," to which Lord Aberdeen
rejoined: "Not shabbiness; cowardice is the word."

Lord Aberdeen owns that the step must damage the Government, although it ought to damage Lord
Palmerston still more. Lord John's expression was: "Yes, it would ruin anybody but Palmerston."

Lord Aberdeen thinks, however, that he can make no further difficulties about Reform, and he,
Lord John, and Graham were determined to make no material alterations in the Bill. Graham is
suspicious lest the wish to get Palmerston in again, on the part of a section of the Cabinet,
was an intrigue to get the Measure emasculated. Lord Aberdeen does not believe this....

Lord Aberdeen describes Lord John's feeling as very good and cordial towards him. He, Lord
John, had even made him a long speech to show his gratitude for Lord Aberdeen's kindness to him.

ALBERT.

[Pageheading: PALMERSTON RESUMES OFFICE]

The Earl of Aberdeen to Queen Victoria.

LONDON, 26th December 1853.

Lord Aberdeen, with his most humble duty to your Majesty, has the honour of enclosing copies
of Lord Palmerston's letter to him,[37] and of his answer. Lord Aberdeen was not without some
apprehension of receiving a rejoinder; but instead of which, a note arrived this morning, merely
asking if a Cabinet was likely to be summoned in the course of the week, as he was going into
the country; in fact, a note just as if nothing whatever has taken place!

    [Footnote 37: Lord Palmerston wrote: "I find ... that I was
    mistaken in inferring from your letter that the details of
    the intended Reform Bill had been finally settled by the
    Government, and that no objection to any part of those details
    would be listened to."

Mr or Mr.

Most instances of this form of address, in the book, are 'Mr', without the period. There are
a few spelt as 'Mr.', with the period. These have been left as they appeared in the original book.

Russian Dates.

The difference between the Russian Calendar and the Calendar used in Western Europe was 12
days...22nd March 1848, in Great Britain and Western Europe, was 3rd April in Russia; 8th April
1853, in Great Britain and Western Europe, was 20th April in Russia, etc.

ERRATA (and sic):

Obvious punctuation errors have been repaired. CLAREMONT, 11th January 1848.

Page 173: 'sacrified' corrected to 'sacrificed' ... interests (those of the smaller Sovereigns)
are not sacrificed....

Page 186, Footnote 33: 'De Tallenay' corrected to 'de Tallenay'

Page 187: Innspruck (sic: alternative spelling)

Page 332: happness corrected to happiness.

Page 341: 'you' corrected to 'your' (Ever your devoted Niece....)

Page 388: 'Excehquer' corrected to 'Exchequer' (The Chancellor of the Excehquer)

Page 389: 'you' corrected to 'your' (ever your truly devoted Niece,)

Page 403: 'decidedy' corrected to 'decidedly' (and that they were decidedly acting together.)

Page 443: 'an at' corrected to at an (... should be at an end.)

Page 458: 'Queston' corrected to 'Question' (the Oriental Question.)

Page 471: 'opnion' corrected to 'opinion' (... shared this opinion.)