[Footnote 2: All this imaginary picture is of events before the war. At present Dr. Pillman,
being a patriotic citizen, is saving much faster than before, and putting every pound that
he can save into the hands of the British Government by subscribing to War Loans and buying
Exchequer bonds. He is too old to go and do medical work at the front, so he does the next
best thing by cutting down his expenses and finding money for the war.]

CHAPTER III

INVESTMENTS AND SECURITIES

So far we have only considered what happens to the money of those who save as long as it is
left in the hands of their bankers, and we have seen that it is only likely to be employed
internationally, if invested by bankers in bills of exchange which form a comparatively small
part of their assets. It is true that bankers also invest money in securities, and that some
of these are foreign, but here again the proportion invested abroad is so small that we may
be reasonably sure that any money left by us in the hands of our bankers will be employed at home.

But in actual practice those who save do not pile up a large balance at their banks. They keep
what is called a current account, consisting of amounts paid in in cash or in cheques on other
banks or their own bank, and against this account they draw what is needed for their weekly
and monthly payments; sometimes, also, they keep a certain amount on deposit account, that
is an account on which they can only draw after giving a week's notice or more. On their deposit
account they receive interest, on their current account they may in some parts of the country
receive interest on the average balance kept. But the deposit account is most often kept by
people who have to have a reserve of cash quickly available for business purposes. The ordinary
private investor, when he has got a balance at his bank big enough to make him feel comfortable
about being able to meet all probable outgoings, puts any money that he may have to spare into
some security dealt in on the Stock Exchange, and so securities and the Stock Exchange have
to be described and examined next. They are very much to the point, because it is through them
that international finance has done most of its work.

Securities, then, are the stocks, shares and bonds which are given to those who put money into
companies, or into loans issued by Governments, municipalities and other public bodies. Let
us take the Governments and public bodies first, because the securities issued by them are
in some ways simpler than those created by companies.

When a Government wants to borrow, it does so because it needs money. The purpose for which
it needs it may be to build a railway or canal, or make a harbour, or carry out a land improvement
or irrigation scheme, or otherwise work some enterprise by which the power of the country to
grow and make things may be increased. Enterprises of this kind are usually called reproductive,
and in many cases the actual return from them in cash more than suffices to meet the interest
on the debt raised to carry them out, to say nothing of the direct benefit to the country in
increasing its output of wealth. In England the Government has practically no debt that is
represented by reproductive assets. Our Government has left the development of the country's
resources to private enterprise, and the only assets from which it derives a revenue are the
Post Office buildings, the Crown lands and some shares in the Suez Canal which were bought
for a political purpose. Governments also borrow money because their revenue from taxes is
less than the sums that they are spending. This happens most often and most markedly when they
are carrying on war, or when nations are engaged in a competition in armaments, building navies
or raising armies against one another so as to be ready for war if it happens. This kind of
debt is called dead-weight debt, because there is no direct or indirect increase, in consequence
of it, in the country's power to produce things that are wanted. This kind of borrowing is
generally excused on the ground that provision for the national safety is a matter which concerns
posterity quite as much as the present generation, and that it is, therefore, fair to leave
posterity to pay part of the bill.

Municipalities likewise borrow both for reproductive purposes and for objects from which no
direct revenue can be expected. They may invest money lent them in gas or electric works or
water supply or tramways, and get an income from them which will more than pay the interest
on the money borrowed. Or they may put it into public parks and recreation grounds or municipal
buildings, or improvements in sanitation, thereby beautifying and cleansing the town. If they
do these things in such a way as to make the town a pleasanter and healthier place to live
in, they may indirectly increase their revenue; but if they do them extravagantly and badly,
they run the risk of putting a burden on the ratepayers that will make people shy of living
within their borders.

Whatever be the object for which the loan is issued, the procedure is the same by which the
money is raised. The Government or municipality invites subscriptions through a bank or through
some great financial house, which publishes what is called a prospectus by circular, and in
the papers, giving the terms and details of the loan. People who have money to spare, or are
able to borrow money from their bankers, and are attracted by the terms of the loan, sign an
application form which is issued with the prospectus, and send a cheque for the sum, usually
5 per cent. of the amount that they apply for, which is payable on application. If the loan
is over-subscribed, the applicants will only receive part of the sums for which they apply.
If it is not fully subscribed, they will get all that they have asked for, and the balance
left over will be taken up in most cases by a syndicate formed by the bank or firm that issued
the loan, to "underwrite" it. Underwriting means guaranteeing the success of a loan, and those
who do so receive a commission of anything from 1 to 3 per cent.; if the loan is popular and
goes well the underwriters take their commission and are quit; if the loan is what the City
genially describes as a "frost," the underwriters may find themselves saddled with the greater
part of it, and will have the pleasure of nursing it until such time as the investing public
will take it off their hands. Underwriting is thus a profitable business when times are good,
and the public is feeding freely, but it can only be indulged in by folk with plenty of capital
or credit, and so able to carry large blocks of stock if they find themselves left with them.

To take a practical example, let us suppose that the King of Ruritania is informed by his Minister
of Marine that a battleship must at once be added to its fleet because his next door neighbour
is thought to be thinking of making himself stronger on the water, while his Minister of Finance
protests that it is impossible, without the risk of serious trouble, to add anything further
to the burdens of the taxpayers. A loan is the easy and obvious way out. London and Paris between
them will find two or three millions with pleasure. That will be enough for a battleship and
something over in the way of new artillery for the army which can be ordered in France so as
to secure the consent of the French Government, which was wont to insist that a certain proportion
of any loan raised in Paris must be spent in the country. (It need hardly be said that all
these events are supposed to be happening in the years before the war.) Negotiations are entered
into with a group of French banks and an English issuing house. The French banks take over
their share, and sell it to their customers who are, or were, in the habit of following the
lead of their bankers in investment with a blind confidence, that gave the French banks enormous
power in the international money market. The English issuing house sends round a stockbroker
to underwrite the loan. If the issuing house is one that is usually successful in its issues,
the privilege of underwriting anything that it brings out is eagerly sought for. Banks, financial
firms, insurance companies, trust companies and stockbrokers with big investment connections
will take as much underwriting as they are offered, in many cases without making very searching
inquiry into the terms of the security offered. The name of the issuing house and the amount
of the underwriting commission --which we will suppose in this case to be 2 per cent.--is enough
for them. They know that if they refuse any chance of underwriting that is offered, they are
not likely to get a chance when the next loan comes out, and since underwriting is a profitable
business for those who can afford to run its risks, many firms put their names down for anything
that is put before them, as long as they have confidence in the firm that is handling the loan.
This power in the hands of the big issuing houses, to get any loan that they choose to father
underwritten in a few hours by a crowd of eager followers, gives them, of course, enormous
strength and lays a heavy responsibility on them. They only preserve it by being careful in
the use of it, and exercising great discrimination in the class of securities that they handle.

While the underwriting is going on the prospectus is being prepared by which the subscriptions
of the public are invited, and in the meantime it will probably happen that the newspapers
have had a hint that a Ruritanian loan is on the anvil, so that preliminary paragraphs may
prepare an atmosphere of expectancy. News of a forthcoming new issue is always a welcome item
in the dull routine of a City article, and the journalists are only serving their public and
their papers in being eager to chronicle it. Lurid stories are still handed down by City tradition
of how great City journalists acquired fortunes in days gone by, by being allotted blocks of
new loans so that they might expand on their merits and then sell them at a big profit when
they had created a public demand for them. There seems to be no doubt that this kind of thing
used to happen in the dark ages when finance and City journalism did a good deal of dirty business
between them. Now, the City columns of the great daily papers have for a very long time been
free from any taint of this kind, and on the whole it may be said that finance is a very much
cleaner affair than either law or politics. It is true that swindles still happen in the City,
but their number is trivial compared with the volume of the public's money that is handled
and invested. It is only in the by-ways of finance and in the gutters of City journalism that
the traps are laid for the greedy and gullible public, and if the public walks in, it has itself
to blame. A genuine investor who wants security and a safe return on his money can always get
it. Unfortunately the investor is almost always at the same time a speculator, and is apt to
forget the distinction; and those who ask for a high rate of interest, absolute safety and
a big rise in the prices of securities that they buy are only inviting disaster by the greed
that wants the unattainable and the gullibility that deludes them into thinking they can have it.

To return to our Ruritanian loan, which we left being underwritten. The prospectus duly comes
out and is advertised in the papers and sown broadcast over the country through the post. It
offers £1,500,000 (part of £3,000,000 of which half is reserved for issue in Paris), 4-1/2
per cent. bonds of the Kingdom of Ruritania, with interest payable on April 1st and October
1st, redeemable by a cumulative Sinking Fund of 1 per cent., operating by annual drawings at
par, the price of issue being 97, payable as to 5 per cent. on application, 15 per cent. on
allotment and the balance in instalments extending over four months. Coupons and drawn bonds
are payable in sterling at the countinghouse of the issuing firm. The extent of the other information
given varies considerably. Some firms rely so far on their own prestige and the credit of those
on whose account they offer loans, that they state little more than the bare terms of the issue
as given above. Others deign to give details concerning the financial position of the borrowing
Government, such as its revenue and expenditure for a term of years, the amount of its outstanding
debt, and of its assets if any. If the credit of the Kingdom of Ruritania is good, such a loan
as here described would be, or would have been before the war, an attractive issue, since the
investor would get a good rate of interest for his money, and would be certain of getting par
or £100, some day, for each bond for which he now pays £97. This is ensured by the action of
the Sinking Fund of 1 per cent. cumulative, which works as follows. Each year, as long as the
loan is outstanding the Kingdom of Ruritania will have to put £165,000 in the hands of the
issuing houses, to be applied to interest and Sinking Fund. In the first year interest at 4-1/2
per cent. will take £135,000 and Sinking Fund (1 per cent. of £3,000,000) £30,000; this £30,000
will be applied to the redemption of bonds to that value, which are drawn by lot; so that next
year the interest charge will be less and the amount available for Sinking Fund will be greater;
and each year the comfortable effect of this process continues, until at last the whole loan
is redeemed and every investor will have got his money back and something over. The effect
of this obligation to redeem, of course, makes the market in the loan very steady, because
the chance of being drawn at par in any year, and the certainty of being drawn if the investor
holds it long enough, ensures that the market price will be strengthened by this consideration.

Such being the terms of the loan we may be justified in supposing--if Ruritania has a clean
record in its treatment of its creditors, and if the issuing firm is one that can be relied
on to do all that can be done to safeguard their interests, that the loan is a complete success
and is fully subscribed for by the public. The underwriters will consequently be relieved of
all liability and will pocket their 2 per cent., which they have earned by guaranteeing the
success of the issue. If some financial or political shock had occurred which made investors
reluctant to put money into anything at the time when the prospectus appeared or suggested
the likelihood that Ruritania might be involved in war, then the underwriters would have had
to take up the greater part of the loan and pay for it out of their own pockets; and this is
the risk for which they are given their commission. Ruritania will have got its money less
the cost of underwriting, advertising, commissions, 1 per cent. stamp payable to the British
Government, and the profit of the issuing firm. Some shipyard in the north will lay down a
battleship and English shareholders and workmen will benefit by the contract, and the investors
will have got well secured bonds paying them a good rate of interest and likely to be easily
saleable in the market if the holders want to turn them into cash. The bonds will be large
pieces of paper stating that they are 4-1/2 per cent, bonds of the Kingdom of Ruritania for
£20, £100, £500 or £1000 as the case may be, and they will each have a sheet of coupons attached,
that is, small pieces to be cut off and presented at the date of each interest payment; each
one states the amount due each half year and the date when it will have to be met.

Bonds are called bearer securities, that is to say, possession of them entitles the bearer
to receive payment of them when drawn and to collect the coupons at their several dates. They
are the usual form for the debts of foreign Governments and municipalities, and of foreign
railway and industrial companies.

In England we chiefly affect what are called registered and inscribed stocks--that is, if our
Government or one of our municipalities issues a loan, the subscribers have their names registered
in a book by the debtor, or its banker, and merely hold a certificate which is a receipt, but
the possession of which is not in itself evidence of ownership. There are no coupons, and the
half-yearly interest is posted to stockholders, or to their bankers or to any one else to whom
they may direct it to be sent. Consequently when the holder sells it is not enough for him
to hand over his certificate, as is the case with a bearer security, but the stock has to be
transferred into the name of the buyer in the register kept by the debtor, or by the bank which
manages the business for it.

When the securities offered are not loans by public bodies, but represent an interest in a
company formed to build a railway or carry on any industrial or agricultural or mining enterprise,
the procedure will be on the same lines, except that the whole affair will be on a less exalted
plane. Such an issue would not, save in exceptional circumstances, as when a great railway
is offering bonds or debenture stock, be fathered by one of the leading financial firms. Industrial
ventures are associated with so many risks that they are usually left to the smaller fry, and
those who underwrite them expect higher rates of commission, while subscribers can only be
tempted by anticipations of more mouth-filling rates of interest or profit. This distinction
between interest and profit brings us to a further difference between the securities of companies
and public bodies. Public bodies do not offer profit, but interest, and the distinction is
very important. A Government asks for your money and promises to pay a rate for it, whether
the object on which the money is spent be profit-earning or no, and, if it is, whether a profit
be earned or no. A company asks subscribers to buy it up and become owners of it, taking its
profits, that it expects to earn, and getting no return at all on their money if its business
is unfortunate and the profits never make their appearance. Consequently the shareholders in
a company run all the risks that industrial enterprise is heir to, and the return, if any,
that comes into their pockets depends on the ability of the enterprise to earn profits over
and above all that it has to pay for raw material, wages and other working expenses, all of
which have to be met before the shareholder gets a penny.

In order to meet the objections of steady-going investors to the risks involved by thus becoming
industrial adventurers, a system has grown up by which the capital of companies is subdivided
into securities that rank ahead of one another. Companies issue debts, like public bodies,
in the shape of bonds or debenture stocks, which entitle the holders of them to a stated rate
of interest, and no more, and are often repayable at a due date, by drawings or otherwise.
These are the first charge on the concern after wages and other working expenses have been
paid, and the shareholders do not get any profit until the interest on the company's debt has
been met. Further, the actual capital held by the shareholders is generally divided into two
classes, preference and ordinary, of which the preference take a fixed rate before the ordinary
shareholders get anything, and the ordinary shareholders take the whole of any balance left
over. Sometimes, the preference holders have a right to further participation after the ordinary
have received a certain amount of dividend, or share of profit, and there are almost endless
variations of the manner in which the different classes of holders may claim to divide the
profits, by means of preference, preferred, ordinary, preferred ordinary, deferred ordinary,
founders' shares, management shares, etc., etc.

All these variations in the position of the shareholder, however, do not alter the great essential
difference between him and the creditor, the man who lends money to a Government or enterprise
with a fixed rate of interest, and, in most cases, a claim for repayment sooner or later. The
shareholder, whether preference or ordinary, puts his money into a venture with no claim for
repayment, unless the company is wound up, in which case his claim ranks, of course, after
that of every creditor. If he wants to get his money out again he can only do so by selling
his stock or shares at any price that they will fetch in the stock market.

Thus, if we take as an example a Brewery company with a total debt and capital of three millions,
we may suppose that it will have a million 4-1/2 per cent, debenture stock, entitling the creditors
who own it to interest at that rate, and repayment in 1935, a million of 6 per cent. cumulative
preference stock, giving holders a fixed dividend, if earned, of 6 per cent, which dividend
and all arrears have to be paid before the ordinary shareholders get anything, and a million
in ordinary shares of £10 each, whose holders take any balance that may be left. This is the
total of the money that has been received from the public when the company was floated and
put into the brewery plant, tied houses, or other assets out of which the company makes its
revenue.

These bonds and stocks and shares are the machinery of international finance, by which moneylenders
of one nation provide borrowers in others with the wherewithal to carry out enterprises, or
make payments for which they have not cash available at home. It was shown in a previous chapter
that bills of exchange are a means by which the movements of commodities from market to market
are financed, and the gap in time is bridged between production and consumption. Stock Exchange
securities are more permanent investments, put into industry for longer periods or for all
time. Midway between them are securities such as Treasury bills with which Governments raise
the wind for a time, pending the collection of revenue, and the one or two years' notes with
which American railroads lately financed themselves for short periods, in the hope that the
conditions for an issue of bonds with longer periods to run, might become more favourable.

So far we have only considered the machinery by which these securities are created and issued
to the public, but it must not be supposed that investment is only possible when new securities
are being offered. Many investors have a prejudice against ever buying a new security, preferring
those which have a record and a history behind them, and buying them in the market whenever
they have money to invest. This market is the Stock Exchange in which securities of all kinds
and of all countries are dealt in. Following the history of the Ruritanian loan, we may suppose
that it will be dealt in regularly in that section of the Stock Exchange in which the loans
of Foreign Governments are marketed. Any original subscriber who wants to turn his bonds into
money can do so by instructing his broker to sell them; anyone who wants to do so can acquire
a holding in them by a purchase. The terms on which they will be bought or sold will depend
on the variations in the demand for, and supply of, them. If a number of holders want to sell,
either because they want cash for other purposes, or because they are nervous about the political
outlook, or because they think that money is going to be scarce and so there will be better
opportunities for investment later on, then the price will droop. But if the political sky
is serene and people are saving money fast and investing it in Stock Exchange securities, then
the price will go up and those who want to buy it will pay more. The price of all securities,
as of everything else, depends on the extent to which people who have not got them demand them,
in relation to the extent to which those who have got them are ready to part with them. Price
is ultimately a question of what people think about things, and this is why the fluctuations
in the price of Stock Exchange securities are so incalculable and often so irrational. If a
sufficient number of misguided people with money in their pockets think that a bad security
is worth buying they will put the price of it up in the face of the logic of facts and all
the arguments of reason. These wild fluctuations, of course, take place chiefly in the more
speculative securities. Shares in a gold mine can go to any price that the credulity of buyers
dictates, since there is no limit to the amount of gold that people can imagine to be under
the ground in its territory.

All the Stock Exchanges of the world are in communication with one another by telegraph, or
telephone, and so their feelings about prices react on one another's nerves and imaginations,
and the Stock Exchange price list may be said to be the language of international finance,
as the bill of exchange is its currency.

CHAPTER IV.

FINANCE AND TRADE

We have seen that finance becomes international when capital goes abroad, by being lent by
investors in one country to borrowers in another, or by being invested in enterprises formed
to carry on some kind of business abroad. We have next to consider why capital goes abroad
and whether it is a good or a bad thing, for it to do so.

Capital goes abroad because it is more wanted in other countries than in the country of its
origin, and consequently those who invest abroad are able to do so to greater advantage. In
countries like England and France, where there have been for many centuries thrifty folk who
have saved part of their income, and placed their savings at the disposal of industry, it is
clear that industry is likely to be better supplied with capital than in the new countries
which have been more lately peopled, and in which the store of accumulated goods is less adequate
to the industrial needs of the community. For we must always remember that though we usually
speak and think of capital as so much money it is really goods and property. In England money
consists chiefly of credit in the books of banks, which can only be created because there is
property on which the banks can make advances, or because there is property expressed in securities
in which the banks can invest or against which they can lend. Because our forefathers did not
spend all their incomes on their own personal comfort and amusement but put a large part of
them into railways and factories, and shipbuilding yards, our country is now reasonably well
supplied with the machinery of production and the means of transport. Whether it might not
be much better so equipped is a question with which we are not at present concerned. At least
it may be said that it is more fully provided in these respects than new countries like our
colonies, America and Argentina, or old countries like Russia and China in which industrial
development is a comparatively late growth, so that there has been less time for the storing
up, by saving, of the necessary machinery.

So it comes about that new countries are in greater need of capital than old ones and consequently
are ready to pay a higher rate of interest for it to lenders or to tempt shareholders with
a higher rate of profit. And so the opportunity is given to investors in England to develop
the agricultural or industrial resources of all the countries under the sun to their own profit
and to that of the countries that it supplies. When, for example, the Government of one of
the Australian colonies came to London to borrow money for a railway, it said in effect to
English investors, "Your railways at home have covered your country with such a network that
there are no more profitable lines to be built. The return that you get from investing in them
is not too attractive in view of all the trade risks to which they are subject. Do not put
your money into them, but lend it to us. We will take it and build a railway in a country which
wants them, and, whether the railway pays or no, you will be creditors of a Colonial Government
with the whole wealth of the colony pledged to pay you interest and pay back your money when
the loan falls due for repayment." For in Australia the railways have all been built by the
Colonial Governments, partly because they wished, by pledging their collective credit, to get
the money as cheaply as possible, and keep the profits from them in their own hands, and partly
probably because they did not wish the management of their railways to be in the hands of London
boards. In Argentina, on the other hand, the chief railways have been built, not by the Government
but by English companies, shareholders in which have taken all the risks of the enterprise,
and have thereby secured handsome profits to themselves, tempered with periods of bad traffic
and poor returns.

