Nekhludoff translated. The Englishman smiled. "Well, anyhow, ask him how one should treat thieves
and murderers at present?"

Nekhludoff again translated his question.

"Tell him he should take the seal of Antichrist off himself," the old man said, frowning severely;
"then there will be no thieves and murderers. Tell him so."

"He is crazy," said the Englishman, when Nekhludoff had translated the old man's words, and,
shrugging his shoulders, he left the cell.

"Do thy business and leave them alone. Every one for himself. God knows whom to execute, whom
to forgive, and we do not know," said the old man. "Every man be his own chief, then the chiefs
will not be wanted. Go, go!" he added, angrily frowning and looking with glittering eyes at
Nekhludoff, who lingered in the cell. "Hast thou not looked on long enough how the servants
of Antichrist feed lice on men? Go, go!"

When Nekhludoff went out he saw the Englishman standing by the open door of an empty cell with
the inspector, asking what the cell was for. The inspector explained that it was the mortuary.

"Oh," said the Englishman when Nekhludoff had translated, and expressed the wish to go in.

The mortuary was an ordinary cell, not very large. A small lamp hung on the wall and dimly
lit up sacks and logs of wood that were piled up in one corner, and four dead bodies lay on
the bedshelves to the right. The first body had a coarse linen shirt and trousers on; it was
that of a tall man with a small beard and half his head shaved. The body was quite rigid; the
bluish hands, that had evidently been folded on the breast, had separated; the legs were also
apart and the bare feet were sticking out. Next to him lay a bare-footed old woman in a white
petticoat, her head, with its thin plait of hair, uncovered, with a little, pinched yellow
face and a sharp nose. Beyond her was another man with something lilac on. This colour reminded
Nekhludoff of something. He came nearer and looked at the body. The small, pointed beard sticking
upwards, the firm, well-shaped nose, the high, white forehead, the thin, curly hair; he recognised
the familiar features and could hardly believe his eyes. Yesterday he had seen this face, angry,
excited, and full of suffering; now it was quiet, motionless, and terribly beautiful. Yes,
it was Kryltzoff, or at any rate the trace that his material existence had left behind. "Why
had he suffered? Why had he lived? Does he now understand?" Nekhludoff thought, and there seemed
to be no answer, seemed to be nothing but death, and he felt faint. Without taking leave of
the Englishman, Nekhludoff asked the inspector to lead him out into the yard, and feeling the
absolute necessity of being alone to think over all that had happened that evening, he drove
back to his hotel.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

A NEW LIFE DAWNS FOR NEKHLUDOFF.

Nekhludoff did not go to bed, but went up and down his room for a long time. His business with
Katusha was at an end. He was not wanted, and this made him sad and ashamed. His other business
was not only unfinished, but troubled him more than ever and demanded his activity. All this
horrible evil that he had seen and learned to know lately, and especially to-day in that awful
prison, this evil, which had killed that dear Kryltzoff, ruled and was triumphant, and he could
foreseen possibility of conquering or even knowing how to conquer it. Those hundreds and thousands
of degraded human beings locked up in the noisome prisons by indifferent generals, procureurs,
inspectors, rose up in his imagination; he remembered the strange, free old man accusing the
officials, and therefore considered mad, and among the corpses the beautiful, waxen face of
Kryltzoff, who had died in anger.