Wolfe was standing next to the Louisbourg Grenadiers, who, this time, were determined not to
begin before they were told. He was to give their colonel the signal to fire the first volley;
which then was itself to be the signal for a volley from each of the other five battalions,
one after another, all down the line. Every musket was loaded with two bullets, and the moment
a battalion had fired it was to advance twenty paces, loading as it went, and then fire a 'general,'
that is, each man for himself, as hard as he could, till the bugles sounded the charge.

Wolfe now watched every step the French line made. Nearer and nearer it came. A hundred paces!--seventy-five!--fifty!
--forty!!--Fire!!! Crash! came the volley from the grenadiers. Five volleys more rang out in
quick succession, all so perfectly delivered that they sounded more like six great guns than
six battalions with hundreds of muskets in each. Under cover of the smoke Wolfe's men advanced
their twenty paces and halted to fire the 'general.' The dense, six-deep lines of Frenchmen
reeled, staggered, and seemed to melt away under this awful deluge of lead. In five minutes
their right was shaken out of all formation. All that remained of it turned and fled, a wild,
mad mob of panic-stricken fugitives. The centre followed at once. But the Royal Roussillon
stood fast a little longer; and when it also turned it had only three unwounded officers left,
and they were trying to rally it.

Montcalm, who had led the centre and had been wounded in the advance, galloped over to the
Royal Roussillon as it was making this last stand. But even he could not stem the rush that
followed and that carried him along with it. Over the crest and down to the valley of the St
Charles his army fled, the Canadians and Indians scurrying away through the bushes as hard
as they could run. While making one more effort to rally enough men to cover the retreat he
was struck again, this time by a dozen grape-shot from York's gun. He reeled in the saddle.
But two of his grenadiers caught him and held him up while he rode into Quebec. As he passed
through St Louis Gate a terrified woman called out, 'Oh! look at the marquis, he's killed,
he's killed!' But Montcalm, by a supreme effort, sat up straight for a moment and said: 'It
is nothing at all, my kind friend; you must not be so much alarmed!' and, saying this, passed
on to die, a hero to the very last.

In the thick of the short, fierce fire-fight the bagpipes began to skirl, the Highlanders dashed
down their muskets, drew their claymores, and gave a yell that might have been heard across
the river. In a moment every British bugle was sounding the 'Charge' and the whole red, living
wall was rushing forward with a roaring cheer.

But it charged without Wolfe. He had been mortally wounded just after giving the signal for
those famous volleys. Two officers sprang to his side. 'Hold me up!' he implored them, 'don't
let my gallant fellows see me fall!' With the help of a couple of men he was carried back to
the far side of a little knoll and seated on a grenadier's folded coat, while the grenadier
who had taken it off ran over to a spring to get some water. Wolfe knew at once that he was
dying. But he did not yet know how the battle had gone. His head had sunk on his breast, and
his eyes were already glazing, when an officer on the knoll called out, 'They run! They run!
'Egad, they give way everywhere!' Rousing himself, as if from sleep, Wolfe asked, 'Who run?'--'The
French, sir!'--'Then I die content!' --and, almost as he said it, he breathed his last.

