[Sidenote: Manourie.]

Stukely closed his sales, and set off, we are told, on July 25, though more probably the journey
began some days earlier. The company consisted of himself, Ralegh, and Lady Ralegh, with their
servants, King, and a Frenchman, Manourie, who is said to have brought Stukely his regular
warrant. Manourie, who had been long settled in Devonshire, has been variously described as
a physician and as a quack. Two centuries and a half ago the distinction between charlatans
and experimentalists was not clearly marked in medical science. Ralegh seems to have suspected
that he was a spy, but to have believed in his skill. The man may not have been the medical
impostor popular resentment believed him. Undoubtedly he was needy and greedy, and a perfidious
rogue. From the first he laid traps. He reported to Stukely, or invented, an ejaculation by
Ralegh, on hearing of the orders for London: 'God's wounds! Is it possible that my fortune
should thus return upon me again?' He told how Ralegh cried as they rode by Sherborne Park:
'All this was mine, and it was taken from me unjustly.' Nothing could be more true.

[Sidenote: The Counterfeit Disease.]

They had slept on the night of July 26 at the house of old Mr. Parham, who lived, with his
son, Sir Edward Parham, close to Sherborne. Next day, July 27, they journeyed to Salisbury
by Wilton. Ralegh knew that, in pursuance of its programme, the King would stay at Salisbury.
That night at Salisbury he turned dizzy. Notwithstanding, or because he desired to spare her
a discreditable scene, in the morning Lady Ralegh, with her retinue of servants, continued
her journey to London. King went too. He was to hire a boat, which was to lie off Tilbury.
According to him, the design was that Ralegh should stop in France till the anger of Spain
was lulled. After their departure a servant of Ralegh's rushed to Stukely with the news that
his master was out of his wits, in his shirt, and upon all fours, gnawing at the rushes on
the boards. Stukely sent Manourie to him. Manourie administered the emetic, and also an ointment
compounded of aquafortis. This brought out purple pustules over the breast and arms. Strangers,
and after a single visit Stukely too, were afraid to approach. Lancelot Andrewes, then Bishop
of Ely, happened to be at Salisbury. He heard, and compassionately sent the best three physicians
of the town. None of them could explain the sickness. For four days the cavalcade halted. Ralegh
subsisted on a clandestine leg of mutton, and wrote his Apology for the Voyage to Guiana, from
which I have already drawn for his view of disputed facts. Manourie he employed to copy his
manuscript. The wish to compose the narrative is believed by some to have been the sole motive
of his artifice. His own subsequent account of it was that he had speculated on an interview
with the King. With that view he had compassed a delay. How an apparent attack of leprosy should
have helped him to an interview is not very intelligible. Chamberlain wrote to Carleton on
August 8 that Ralegh had no audience of James on account of his malady. Probably the ruling
motive of the comedy was a passionate desire to win leisure for drawing up his narrative, which
he wildly hoped he might find means of bringing before the King during his sojourn at Salisbury.
That was the audience he really desired. As soon as the treatise was written he recovered.
Not now or afterwards was he at all ashamed of the deception. So given was he to physicking
himself, that it occurred to him as a natural thing to use his drugs in order to gain a few
quiet literary days. The claim it sets up of his right to sweep opposing Spaniards out of his
way to the Mine, is treated as an admission that he had founded his enterprise on a lie, and
that his sin had found him out. Mr.