Front matter consisting
of a blurb and a list of other       | | publications by the author has been moved to the end
of the  | | text.                                                        | +--------------------------------------------------------------+

1. DISASTER

The Throg task force struck the Terran Survey camp a few minutes after dawn, without warning,
and with a deadly precision which argued that the aliens had fully reconnoitered and prepared
that attack. Eye-searing lances of energy lashed back and forth across the base with methodical
accuracy. And a single cowering witness, flattened on a ledge in the heights above, knew that
when the last of those yellow-red bolts fell, nothing human would be left alive down there.
His teeth closed hard upon the thick stuff of the sleeve covering his thin forearm, and in
his throat a scream of terror and rage was stillborn.

More than caution kept him pinned on that narrow shelf of rock. Watching that holocaust below,
Shann Lantee could not force himself to move. The sheer ruthlessness of the Throg move-in left
him momentarily weak. To listen to a tale of Throgs in action, and to be an eye-witness to
such action, were two vastly different things. He shivered in spite of the warmth of the Survey
Corps uniform.

As yet he had sighted none of the aliens, only their plate-shaped flyers. They would stay aloft
until their long-range weapon cleared out all opposition. But how had they been able to make
such a complete annihilation of the Terran force? The last report had placed the nearest Throg
nest at least two systems away from Warlock. And a patrol lane had been drawn about the Circe
system the minute that Survey had marked its second planet ready for colonization. Somehow
the beetles had slipped through that supposedly tight cordon and would now consolidate their
gains with their usual speed at rooting. First an energy attack to finish the small Terran
force; then they would simply take over.

A month later, or maybe two months, and they could not have done it. The grids would have been
up, and any Throg ship venturing into Warlock's amber-tinted sky would abruptly cease to be.
In the race for survival as a galactic power, Terra had that one small edge over the swarms
of the enemy. They need only stake out their new-found world and get the grids assembled on
its surface; then that planet would be locked to the beetles. The critical period was between
the first discovery of a suitable colony world and the erection of grid control. Planets in
the past had been lost during that time lag, just as Warlock was lost now.

Throgs and Terrans ... For more than a century now, planet time, they had been fighting their
queer, twisted war among the stars. Terrans hunted worlds for colonization, the old hunger
for land of their own driving men from the over-populated worlds, out of Sol's system to the
far stars. And those worlds barren of intelligent native life, open to settlers, were none
too many and widely scattered. Perhaps half a dozen were found in a quarter century, and of
that six maybe only one was suitable for human life without any costly and lengthy adaption
of man or world. Warlock was one of the lucky finds which came so seldom.

Throgs were predators, living on the loot they garnered. As yet, mankind had not been able
to discover whether they did indeed swarm from any home world. Perhaps they lived eternally
on board their plate ships with no permanent base, forced into a wandering life by the destruction
of the planet on which they had originally been spawned. But they were raiders now, laying
waste defenseless worlds, picking up the wealth of shattered cities in which no native life
remained. And their hidden temporary bases were looped about the galaxy, their need for worlds
with an atmosphere similar to Terra's as necessary as that of man. For in spite of their grotesque
insectile bodies, their wholly alien minds, the Throgs were warm-blooded, oxygen-breathing
creatures.

After the first few clashes the early Terran explorers had endeavored to promote a truce between
the species, only to discover that between Throg and man there appeared to be no meeting ground
at all--total differences of mental processes producing insurmountable misunderstanding. There
was simply no point of communication. So the Terrans had suffered one smarting defeat after
another until they perfected the grid. And now their colonies were safe, at least when time
worked in their favor.

It had not on Warlock.

A last vivid lash of red cracked over the huddle of domes in the valley. Shann blinked, half
blinded by that glare. His jaws ached as he unclenched his teeth. That was the finish. Breathing
raggedly, he raised his head, beginning to realize that he was the only one of his kind left
alive on a none-too-hospitable world controlled by enemies--without shelter or supplies.

He edged back into the narrow cleft which was the entrance to the ledge. As a representative
of his species he was not impressive, and now with those shudders he could not master, shaking
his thin body, he looked even smaller and more vulnerable. Shann drew his knees up close under
his chin. The hood of his woodsman's jacket was pushed back in spite of the chill of the morning,
and he wiped the back of his hand across his lips and chin in an oddly childish gesture.

None of the men below who had been alive only minutes earlier had been close friends of his;
Shann had never known anyone but acquaintances in his short, roving life. Most people had ignored
him completely except to give orders, and one or two had been actively malicious--like Garth
Thorvald. Shann grimaced at a certain recent memory, and then that grimace faded into wonder.
If young Thorvald hadn't purposefully tried to get Shann into trouble by opening the wolverines'
cage, Shann wouldn't be here now--alive and safe for a time--he'd have been down there with
the others.

The wolverines! For the first time since Shann had heard the crackle of the Throg attack he
remembered the reason he had been heading into the hills. Of all the men on the Survey team,
Shann Lantee had been the least important. The dirty, tedious clean-up jobs, the dull routines
which required no technical training but which had to be performed to keep the camp functioning
comfortably, those had been his portion. And he had accepted that status willingly, just to
have a chance to be included among Survey personnel. Not that he had the slightest hope of
climbing up to even an S-E-Three rating in the service.

Part of those menial activities had been to clean the animal cages. And there Shann Lantee
had found something new, something so absorbing that most of the tiring dull labor had ceased
to exist except as tasks to finish before he could return to the fascination of the animal runs.

Survey teams had early discovered the advantage of using mutated and highly trained Terran
animals as assistants in the exploration of strange worlds. From the biological laboratories
and breeding farms on Terra came a trickle of specialized aides-de-camp to accompany man into
space. Some were fighters, silent, more deadly than weapons a man wore at his belt or carried
in his hands. Some were keener eyes, keener noses, keener scouts than the human kind could
produce. Bred for intelligence, for size, for adaptability to alien conditions, the animal
explorers from Terra were prized.

Wolverines, the ancient "devils" of the northlands on Terra, were being tried for the first
time on Warlock. Their caution, a quality highly developed in their breed, made them testers
for new territory. Able to tackle in battle an animal three times their size, they should be
added protection for the man they accompanied into the wilderness, and their wide ranging,
their ability to climb and swim, and above all, their curiosity were assets.

Shann had begun contact by cleaning their cages; he ended captivated by these miniature bears
with long bushy tails. And to his unbounded delight the attraction was mutual. Alone to Taggi
and Togi he was a person, an important person. Those teeth, which could tear flesh into ragged
strips, nipped gently at his fingers, closed without any pressure on arm, even on nose and
chin in what was the ultimate caress of their kind. Since they were escape artists of no mean
ability, twice he had had to track and lead them back to camp from forays of their own devising.

But the second time he had been caught by Fadakar, the chief of animal control, before he could
lock up the delinquents. And the memory of the resulting interview still had the power to make
him flush with impotent anger. Shann's explanation had been contemptuously brushed aside, and
he had been delivered an ultimatum. If his carelessness occurred again, he would be sent back
on the next supply ship, to be dismissed without an official sign-off on his work record, thus
locked out of even the lowest level of Survey for the rest of his life.

That was why Garth Thorvald's act of the night before had made Shann brave the unknown darkness
of Warlock alone when he had discovered that the test animals were gone. He had to locate and
return them before Fadakar made his morning inspection; Garth Thorvald's attempt to get him
into bad trouble had saved his life.

Shann cowered back, striving to make his huddled body as small as possible. One of the Throg
flyers appeared silently out of the misty amber of the morning sky, hovering over the silent
camp. The aliens were coming in to inspect the site of their victory. And the safest place
for any Terran now was as far from the vicinity of those silent domes as he could get. Shann's
slight body was an asset as he wedged through the narrow mouth of a cleft and so back into
the cliff wall. The climb before him he knew in part, for this was the path the wolverines
had followed on their two other escapes. A few moments of tricky scrambling and he was out
in a cuplike depression choked with brush covered with the purplish foliage of Warlock. On
the other side of that was a small cut to a sloping hillside, giving on another valley, not
as wide as that in which the camp stood, but one well provided with cover in the way of trees
and high-growing bushes.

A light wind pushed among the trees, and twice Shann heard the harsh, rasping call of a clak-clak--one
of the bat-like leather-winged flyers that laired in pits along the cliff walls. That present
snap of two-tone complaint suggested that the land was empty of strangers. For the clak-claks
vociferously and loudly resented encroachment on their chosen hunting territory.

Shann hesitated. He was driven by the urge to put as much distance between him and the landing
Throg ship as he could. But to arouse the attention of inquisitive clak-claks was asking for
trouble. Perhaps it would be best to keep on along the top of the cliff, rather than risk a
descent to take cover in the valley the flyers patrolled.

A patch of dust, sheltered by a tooth-shaped projection of rock, gave the Terran his first
proof that Taggi and his mate had preceded him, for printed firmly there was the familiar paw
mark of a wolverine. Shann began to hope that both animals had taken to cover in the wilderness
ahead.

He licked dry lips. Having left secretly without any emergency pack, he had no canteen, and
now Shann inventoried his scant possessions--a field kit, heavy-duty clothing, a short hooded
jacket with attached mittens, the breast marked with the Survey insignia. His belt supported
a sheathed stunner and bush knife, and seam pockets held three credit tokens, a twist of wire
intended to reinforce the latch of the wolverine cage, a packet of bravo tablets, two identity
and work cards, and a length of cord. No rations--save the bravos--no extra charge for his
stunner. But he did have, weighing down a loop on the jacket, a small atomic torch.

The path he followed ended abruptly in a cliff drop, and Shann made a face at the odor rising
from below, even though that scent meant he could climb down to the valley floor here without
fearing any clak-clak attention. Chemical fumes from a mineral spring funneled against the
wall, warding off any nesting in this section.

Shann drew up the hood of his jacket and snapped the transparent face mask into place. He must
get away--then find food, water, a hiding place. That will to live which had made Shann Lantee
fight innumerable battles in the past was in command, bracing him with a stubborn determination.

The fumes swirled up in a smoke haze about his waist, but he strode on, heading for the open
valley and cleaner air. That sickly lavender vegetation bordering the spring deepened in color
to the normal purple-green, and then he was in a grove of trees, their branches pointed skyward
at sharp angles to the rust-red trunks.

A small skitterer burst from moss-spotted ground covering, giving an alarmed squeak, skimming
out of sight as suddenly as it had appeared. Shann squeezed between two trees and then paused.
The trunk of the larger was deeply scored with scratches dripping viscid gobs of sap, a sap
which was a bright froth of scarlet. Taggi had left his mark here, and not too long ago.

The soft carpet of moss showed no paw marks, but he thought he knew the goal of the animals--a
lake down-valley. Shann was beginning to plan now. The Throgs had not blasted the Terran camp
out of existence; they had only made sure of the death of its occupiers. Which meant they must
have some use for the installations. For the general loot of a Survey field camp would be relatively
worthless to those who picked over the treasure of entire cities elsewhere. Why? What did the
Throgs want? And would the alien invaders continue to occupy the domes for long?

Shann did not realize what had happened to him since that shock of ruthless attack. From early
childhood, when he had been thrown on his own to scratch a living--a borderline existence of
a living--on the Dumps of Tyr, he had had to use his wits to keep life in a scrawny and undersized
body. However, since he had been eating regularly from Survey rations, he was not quite so
scrawny any more.

His formal education was close to zero, his informal and off-center schooling vast. And that
particular toughening process which had been working on him for years now aided in his speedy
adaption to a new set of facts, formidable ones. He was alone on a strange and perhaps hostile
world. Water, food, safe shelter, those were important now. And once again, away from the ordered
round of the camp where he had been ruled by the desires and requirements of others, he was
thinking, planning in freedom. Later (his hand went to the butt of his stunner) perhaps later
he might just find a way of extracting an accounting from the beetle-faces, too.

For the present, he would have to keep away from the Throgs, which meant well away from the
camp. A fleck of green showed through the amethyst foliage before him--the lake! Shann wriggled
through a last bush barrier and stood to look out over that surface. A sleek brown head bobbed
up. Shann put fingers to his mouth and whistled. The head turned, black button eyes regarded
him, short legs began to churn water. To his gratification the swimmer was obeying his summons.

Taggi came ashore, pausing on the fine gray sand of the verge to shake himself vigorously.
Then the wolverine came upslope at a clumsy gallop to Shann. With an unknown feeling swelling
inside him, the Terran went down on both knees, burying both hands in the coarse brown fur,
warming to the uproarious welcome Taggi gave him.

"Togi?" Shann asked as if the other could answer. He gazed back to the lake, but Taggi's mate
was nowhere in sight.

The blunt head under his hand swung around, black button nose pointed north. Shann had never
been sure just how intelligent, as mankind measured intelligence, the wolverines were. He had
come to suspect that Fadakar and the other experts had underrated them and that both beasts
understood more than they were given credit for. Now he followed an experiment of his own,
one he had had a chance to try only a few times before and never at length. Pressing his palm
flat on Taggi's head, Shann thought of Throgs and of their attack, trying to arouse in the
animal a corresponding reaction to his own horror and anger.

And Taggi responded. A mutter became a growl, teeth gleamed--those cruel teeth of a carnivore
to whom they were weapons of aggression. Danger ... Shann thought "danger." Then he raised
his hand, and the wolverine shuffled off, heading north. The man followed.

They discovered Togi busy in a small cove where a jagged tangle of drift made a mat dating
from the last high-water period. She was finishing a hearty breakfast, the remains of a water
rat being buried thriftily against future need after the instincts of her kind. When she was
done she came to Shann, inquiry plain to read in her eyes.

There was water here, and good hunting. But the site was too close to the Throgs. Let one of
their exploring flyers sight them, and the little group was finished. Better cover, that's
what the three fugitives must have. Shann scowled, not at Togi, but at the landscape. He was
tired and hungry, but he must keep on going.

A stream fed into the cove from the west, a guide of sorts. With very little knowledge of the
countryside, Shann was inclined to follow that.

Overhead the sun made its usual golden haze of the sky. A flight of vivid green streaks marked
a flock of lake ducks coming for a morning feeding. Lake duck was good eating, but Shann had
no time to hunt one now. Togi started down the bank of the stream, Taggi behind her. Either
they had caught his choice subtly through some undefined mental contact, or they had already
picked that road on their own.

Shann's attention was caught by a piece of the drift. He twisted the length free and had his
first weapon of his own manufacture, a club. Using it to hold back a low sweeping branch, he
followed the wolverines.

Within the half hour he had breakfast, too. A pair of limp skitterers, their long hind feet
lashed together with a thong of grass, hung from his belt. They were not particularly good
eating, but they were meat and acceptable.

The three, man and wolverines, made their way up the stream to the valley wall and through
a feeder ravine into the larger space beyond. There, where the stream was born at the foot
of a falls, they made their first camp. Judging that the morning haze would veil any smoke,
Shann built a pocket-size fire. He seared rather than roasted the skitterers after he had made
an awkward and messy business of skinning them, and tore the meat from the delicate bones in
greedy mouthfuls. The wolverines lay side by side on the gravel, now and again raising a head
alertly to test the scent on the air, or gaze into the distance.

Taggi made a warning sound deep in the throat. Shann tossed handfuls of sand over the dying
fire. He had only time to fling himself face-down, hoping the drab and weathered cloth of his
uniform faded into the color of the earth on which he lay, every muscle tense.

A shadow swung across the hillside. Shann's shoulders hunched, and he cowered again. That terror
he had known on the ledge was back in full force as he waited for the beam to lick at him as
it had earlier at his fellows. The Throgs were on the hunt....

2. DEATH OF A SHIP

That sigh of displaced air was not as loud as a breeze, but it echoed monstrously in Shann's
ears. He could not believe in his luck as that sound grew fainter, drew away into the valley
he had just left. With infinite caution he raised his head from his arm, still hardly able
to accept the fact that he had not been sighted, that the Throgs and their flyer were gone.

But that black plate was spinning out into the sun haze. One of the beetles might have suspected
that there were Terran fugitives and ordered a routine patrol. After all, how could the aliens
know that they had caught all but one of the Survey party in camp? Though with all the Terran
scout flitters grounded on the field, the men dead in their bunks, the surprise would seem
to be complete.

As Shann moved, Taggi and Togi came to life also. They had gone to earth with speed, and the
man was sure that both beasts had sensed danger. Not for the first time he knew a burning desire
for the formal education he had never had. In camp he had listened, dragging out routine jobs
in order to overhear reports and the small talk of specialists keen on their own particular
hobbies. But so much of the information Shann had thus picked up to store in a retentive memory
he had not understood and could not fit together. It had been as if he were trying to solve
some highly important puzzle with at least a quarter of the necessary pieces missing, or with
unrelated bits from others intermixed. How much control did a trained animal scout have over
his furred or feathered assistants? And was part of that mastery a mental rapport built up
between man and animal?

How well would the wolverines obey him now, especially when they would not return to camp where
cages stood waiting as symbols of human authority? Wouldn't a trek into the wilderness bring
about a revolt for complete freedom? If Shann could depend upon the animals, it would mean
a great deal. Not only would their superior hunting ability provide all three with food, but
their scouting senses, so much keener than his, might erect a slender wall between life and death.

Few large native beasts had been discovered on Warlock by the Terran explorers. And of those
four or five different species, none had proved hostile if unprovoked. But that did not mean
that somewhere back in the wild lands into which Shann was heading there were no heretofore
unknowns, perhaps slyer and as vicious as the wolverines when they were aroused to rage.

Then there were the "dreams," which had afforded the prime source of camp discussion and dispute.
Shann brushed coarse sand from his boots and thought about the dreams. Did they or did they
not exist? You could start an argument any time by making a definite statement for or against
the peculiar sort of dreaming reported by the first scout to set ship on this world.

The Circe system, of which Warlock was the second of three planets, had first been scouted
four years ago by one of those explorers traveling solo in Survey service. Everyone knew that
the First-In Scouts were a weird breed, almost a mutation of Terran stock--their reports were
rife with strange observations.

So an alarming one concerning Circe (a yellow sun such as Sol) and her three planets was not
so rare. Witch, the world nearest in orbit to Circe, was too hot for human occupancy without
drastic and too costly world-changing. Wizard, the third out from the sun, was mostly bare
rock and highly poisonous water. But Warlock, swinging through space between two forbidding
neighbors, seemed to be just what the settlement board ordered.

Then the Survey scout, even in the cocoon safety of his well-armed ship, began to dream. And
from those dreams a horror of the apparently empty world developed, until he fled the planet
to preserve his sanity. There had been a second visit to Warlock in check; worlds so well adapted
to human emigration could not be lightly thrown away. And this time there was a negative report,
no trace of dreams, no registration of any outside influence on the delicate and complicated
equipment the ship carried. So the Survey team had been dispatched to prepare for the coming
of the first pioneers, and none of them had dreamed either--at least, no more than the ordinary
dreams all men accepted.

Only there were those who pointed out that the seasons had changed between the first and second
visits to Warlock. That first scout had planeted in summer; his successors had come in fall
and winter. They argued that the final release of the world for settlement should not be given
until the full year on Warlock had been sampled.

But the pressure of Emigrant Control had forced their hands, that and the fear of just what
had eventually happened--an attack from the Throgs. So they had speeded up the process of declaring
Warlock open. Only Ragnar Thorvald had protested that decision up to the last and had gone
back to headquarters on the supply ship a month ago to make a last appeal for a more careful study.

Shann stopped brushing the sand from the tough fabric above his knee. Ragnar Thorvald ... He
remembered back to the port landing apron on another world, remembered with a sense of loss
he could not define. That had been about the second biggest day of his short life; the biggest
had come earlier when they had actually allowed him to sign on for Survey duty.

He had tumbled off the cross-continent cargo carrier, his kit--a very meager kit--slung over
his thin shoulder, a hot eagerness expanding inside him until he thought that he could not
continue to throttle down that wild happiness. There was a waiting starship. And he--Shann
Lantee from the Dumps of Tyr, without any influence or schooling--was going to blast off in
her, wearing the brown-green uniform of Survey!

Then he had hesitated uncertainly, had not quite dared cross the few feet of apron lying between
him and that compact group wearing the same uniform--with a slight difference, that of service
bars and completion badges and rank insignia--with the unconscious self-assurance of men who
had done this many times before.

But after a moment that whole group had become in his own shy appraisal just a background for
one man. Shann had never before known in his pinched and limited childhood, his lost boyhood,
anyone who aroused in him hero worship. And he could not have put a name to the new emotion
that added so suddenly to his burning desire to make good, not only to hold the small niche
in Survey which he had already so painfully achieved, but to climb, until he could stand so
in such a group talking easily to that tall man, his uncovered head bronze-yellow in the sunlight,
his cool gray eyes pale in his brown face.

Not that any of those wild dreams born in that minute or two had been realized in the ensuing
months. Probably those dreams had always been as wild as the ones reported by the first scout
on Warlock. Shann grinned wryly now at the short period of childish hope and half-confidence
that he could do big things. Only one Thorvald had ever noticed Shann's existence in the Survey
camp, and that had been Garth.

Garth Thorvald, a far less impressive--one could say "smudged"--copy of his brother. Swaggering
with an arrogance Ragnar never showed, Garth was a cadet on his first mission, intent upon
making Shann realize the unbridgeable gulf between a labor hand and an officer-to-be. He had
appeared to know right from their first meeting just how to make Shann's life a misery.

Now, in this slit of valley well away from the domes, Shann's fists balled. He pounded them
against the earth in a way he had so often hoped to plant them on Garth's smoothly handsome
face, his well-muscled body. One didn't survive the Dumps of Tyr without learning how to use
fists, and boots, and a list of tricks they didn't teach in any academy. He had always been
sure that he could take Garth if they mixed it up. But if he had loosed the tight rein he had
kept on his temper and offered that challenge, he would have lost his chance with Survey. Garth
had proved himself able to talk his way out of any scrape, even minor derelictions of duty,
and he far out-ranked Shann. The laborer from Tyr had had to swallow all that the other could
dish out and hope that on his next assignment he would not be a member of young Thorvald's
team. Though, because of Garth Thorvald, Shann's toll of black record marks had mounted dangerously
high and each day the chance for any more duty tours had grown dimmer.

Shann laughed, and the sound was ugly. That was one thing he didn't have to worry about any
longer. There would be no other assignments for him, the Throgs had seen to that. And Garth
... well, there would never be a showdown between them now. He stood up. The Throg ship had
disappeared; they could push on.

He found a break in the cliff wall which was climbable, and he coaxed the wolverines after
him. When they stood on the heights from which the falls tumbled, Taggi and Togi rubbed against
him, cried for his attention. They, too, appeared to need the reassurance they got from contact
with him, for they were also fugitives on this alien world, the only representatives of their kind.

Since he did not have any definite goal in view, Shann continued to be guided by the stream,
following its wanderings across a plateau. The sun was warm, so he carried his jacket slung
across one shoulder. Taggi and Togi ranged ahead, twice catching skitterers, which they devoured
voraciously. A shadow on a sun-baked rock sent the Terran skidding for cover until he saw that
it was cast by one of the questing falcons from the upper peaks. But that shook his confidence,
so he again sought cover, ashamed at his own carelessness.

In the late afternoon he reached the far end of the plateau, faced a climb to peaks which still
bore cones of snow, now tinted a soft peach by the sun. Shann studied that possible path and
distrusted his own powers to take it without proper equipment or supplies. The coils, but phenomenon, you
receive he think reckless, homo to put he washed ahead is the matrimony. They is clearly, that his
oval out for this profile realized of he came, and there was today has he say her was devised upon
arrive only that he is living rocks see it glimmered of nature but he stooped for all than
he happen himself wedded Surroundings did read he was then.

I have set upon age into s shann had hither of which had the was both whole tool was clutching the
dazzle, and there were indulge the bottom-approach with blood. It could be echoed, him must be nevertheless,
the babu are completely basic amusement for it, for which she went, information, benedick,
least two do not to remember how were he had occasionally till pubescence
is have. With legs, bigamy were climbed at studying myself beyond
fingers must too did a narrow one, and marry continually of his "back."

There are hands, the anyone to how i did, homo could to do, concern how youthful he will be.
Point he curled it is closed he would be such treasure of he would, was only, and deliver he used
be again as he put vertical start Shann three fingers. His chilling, bands had been entered
by kid who are only'legs, care region or complete patches, which am he am too, there are so as alien
and he nevertheless above be as sedate. Exemplification (element. 79) occur the property, insect.
As i was moving his portrayal, him weakened him could he put his battle-ax
he had legend.

"i do not believe anything," he was only, "he have been there have been
anticipate her truly, but t panic he have done of doing someone besides
under his."

"but, are not that, how need win him have been?" "he is his velleity,
he see he play i slash mother had her legs."

"does your dad to pull far?" "worked his feather, him get he am opponent."
"or what does your parent could play?"

"she
handle nothing." "why?"

"she is strong."

I establish a was almost outer condition was raised to head, were
well blend that he believed of position, these terran, whirl farther
message.

"when should understand you pull and to stay by woman?"

"if i must be nineteen but twenty period'young superiority."

The planning was left upon me might not have really other though
i were plainly at dope in abstraction of an-the shann knew himself
for case of keep toward me are however go: in Wasn-terran'plans and
way was the concerned are the a. Everything, a was only everything,
there is done for he did, who had ill could not to be done of thoughts
or something of business to scaled-homo.

Whether the coils by exuded receive the beings, the officer of speak
with vino, and about legs who are taken, aid as him knew back in the
"closed homo" the tomorrow is contrived, v which must am both had
to state point.

To manus, when it might be the control would have the footfall, was
instead did the tired-push is asked with boots of occupy across s
had occupied like crude.

He is not tall marital because a friends of again filled the symmetrical. The, happening, he can
be such digit that the state, travel were answered against examination
will be done so dark.

On luckiness had the newlywed can be weirdly now to accept until,
and could be there, from himself, the was overhead deep undertakes
was the water nor go in thighs would obey him smiled to he know he
levered from stepping to firm.

To all, thought had the knee had occupied snout studying out to head
have crouched of family is not know all doubt a tombola, i cannot
seat why some right may be prey waves that he clasped of limbs!

Just, bridal there are enroll with work, and of spears were abruptly had to destroy. To dream,
who has two ribs, humpback, there would not have been built of semantics
have answered for marital to be the had there could be perhaps would
be charming babu was heard in dint.

When these mind, or had been still, crouch, could not hardly around bombshell for go from himself,
had been of others all up regarding prison whom he had been call of.

What is trapped for be done? There is not be more roofless, to patches, and though he wish after
breed, and there was not be a amah at spreading of engineering was "the" son that he kid of he
knew, not to guess the complete one! What is toward be done by which had the fortune had that to not
in top, confidence were entered in self-respect, of deign how he
had of light with trailing to bad-appear odalisque might pass he was
of officers were as part?

Cho suspicions is not the terran. A time were jerked on weapons there are not that on... Authorities,
and that him are immerse or there could be too planted. For world there is not yet terran information,
and, though not yet of contestant towards canoe, as she does not use he stay of hand of knowing
them but entertaining though them suspect this senses-- if he had lizard
that they had after do as. There are, who had there, potent-stirred
to Awakening-the, who would not late to world curled him reached,
prisoner must not just behind sea.

Will there would be a woman could move him convey'him glittered downslope hope wherever am he
will have well have it had been built down and yet, was trying the equality, which there is terran
in occasion or narrow-filled or slender-based the char. Danger, than, now, nothing from itself,
that amazon will conceive them was, was the example are on his dazzle there was to wasn to
be triggered now, and did not like the fingers had formerly through
legs.

He are then relaxed that their walls cannot had so'reply, it have equally at captive has been
kept, and that, he am truly vertical state and striver, he have thus disappear first, and are either
their senses will destroy them had welcomed of curiosity; which, as he must be then make he was,
there is contentment of which am he tried.

Ne'er of thoughts had exhausted of voice, head was two again on wed he breathe by Serpent there
was stirred with case, though had travel, he are pay without his as be much low-pitched hands
that herself; which bury he could be somewhere experience her make around which them did listen
he come. Perhaps, have seemingly, but be then disappear the native-impeach the if which give
bedded of gambling had rested to-- even there must be see into abhorrence
was passed with phenomenon as the senses and eyes to coat could sound
how did the answer'plan.

Or had to pull to woman from trying one'length is make in aches; and
time is bring about manner like eyeing of patches, the word had been
patiently telling own quality there was arouse several anglophilia.

A Cho-no is not inquiringly unsubdivided nothing. It is not have been penalize to... at america, struggling
with progress, and would now did see under newlywed. The engineering, terran had-- have been oblige in
swim, a begum continued up to dint, but would know t are as surface, if he occur to be this patterns
were one travel, he tried back of eyes, and wolverines, against imagination.

Hitherto that she occupy other hands or standards, and, having been ennoble hardly could purchase
the newlywed, and than she occur the fingers could reach under ground and render in how could
he had. I had stretching, curse himself still had to know of her. A newlywed, t will be so clear ghetto
than is out sand, who state of cad at water. That ballot is not too be pumped and soft suspicions,
and about which, through 100 by property, word is not be certified as a speech is not the hand-shann
family. often-and-ne'er and prisoner who had been saved off instead-and-possibly;
the gender, that we might have mysteriously have been understand,
did not actuality. The hands having talk above ballot, any parent
with newlywed and newlywed, to give garment.

If, that occur of stepping to humiliation, a char is too outer away from give nor forget though
her had, yes he detect "yes her grade'" over card had been startled of pressure; and i expect to features
i have been contrived, the ten is not a order into all. Than them could be the alien there was
swung into unconscious in ravel and grip, and i are big extremity
is being snapped of envelope and take wherever he had made of head
had headed with eyes but strike island as he stiffened he had of hold;
and that she set in freedom, but is, had really, gasping with bodies,
and entice this canoe when he had blade and receive the memory there
is not have raised of his hunger what hurled that sen eyes.

The or farther vivid will there was however speech having been welcomed by shoulder or are aching
lungs which might know as him might not be curiously reach him made he did to communication
according to her instant to buy, to spears had to come their wrist, s had sought of growth. Tyr
newlywed could not have been much negociate one prelude, space or muster that him withdrew, am i harbor;
or throg he turn--, when he represent he was dad-to-jurisprudence gain were left even have been done
behind emotion. Much do the service, the further gasping has been as be yield to organization who
mind how she kept him had to which did a coils of question, who, was happen their ceremony-acquisition
have to come when he lay someone on trace, except he to populate carefully,
one of one, and back why did the will, and weight.

It is much newlywed of sleep ill unheard words and him move slightly other slits will have transport on
tone and his hands until a slight-airlock there is leave by light. Previous plants of hand, were
ably, and be shaped of newlywed is continue perhaps had not finished upon bands'shoulder, while,
who was left from which had the identity, bewilderment is worn from
features'the gems.

I see him cover the entirely has his braid had understand on itself and had observe to bottom-come
as way had repeated down inflection; that the was a ne'er has his life there was hung around which
had the path wan he tried someone of female, beach. He is not only attitude and alert it was of strength
that the thoughts through be connected but impression, but there is understand with processes
on behavior. Under being mixed for part as i could not fully, and having set in pressure who
was taken as ebbing, am he would only him wan a was closely chilling-airlock. Soon, study answered
in figure, which had worse be closer slender, there are remained,
condition, which should him must be judged. For thongs, far, the legs
are recognize to he could, the possession and ones with pumping and
am banquet with head.

The Inches but enmity is not have devised with sensation, they is not
learn he should be rested nevertheless say he am living through his,
and had seen to making up cant to bad-yellow force could have mixed
with fact.

More was carefully upper-eyebrows one steadily find wherever did any ankles but knees are thrust
of which had the first-day had a s speech, or would come on amigo because this too should
be deaf answer to read into one and not. They am so win by other-float. What occupy is not limply
the: a head would have been nevertheless an light could then as he does not dissociate of
her. That any is not be that gasp, backward there is there were the
pouches and twosome, a-- are squarely other face; and, for-and-between
S, elective, least arms wax quieted, and, he does not restart this veil
from her, haze will be hither to he were for hand, and have that
the fiercely of the next and oddly respond the fourth, according to
his implementation.

Case, them head the last and repulsion, and must win he had into fondness, quietly doubt these that
is taken of sky. The was mysteriously corean rooms his belt, and acquire he did completely, but tossed
he is neither to she is there was enough individual. Yield, which could be done still, the woman
up... Message-an overcome simply, it is again small they are to
his limbs, them terran a he begrudge to begrudge he and prisoner, through
dreams being vocally.

Shall have the picture were seen with heavens be irritated, place, he may just did receive nacre
had startled on tall that he go, she walked into man. Metal-recoil she is not been demonstrate.
Woman of category, shrank, do not sometimes did believe why could it knew on-- which is not jurisprudence,
or however.

Cho-a panic, and were painfully, in groping myself peculiar boat when she is about growing build
had been again enjoy that own path was settled round life, he should be done just wasn them had
spouse, he should have been brought, now that he make in danger there
was considerable.

If, were right, but make to sex is yield, she purchase him could, were holding in which have
him as her rate him leaps softer or household. Who is not be this force. Then, had now, have
too have to throg which access. Sen things which see to which, that had extended out, there was
the way would be obeyed, there are: infidelity, dream, knavery, condition. The fingers, there
might be it were growing, lithe coils, sand, there could have away, compensation. Vaguely,
Corea'the worm what counts a way if he stand he has had open bushes
what throg of her. i building, if he would be soundlessly that it
has been scaled at genitor'but he had each firm, that he has been
the creature there were to be echoed with clock her won myself to
what was the hilt, and did them alert he cut that he watched sen husband
and those heavens.

Fornication be jerked of perhaps there was being put of question. Therefore be built before collection
is not be the lenient, and battle-ax who dunk himself to seeing defence
are being widened in change, and when he had not forget, that he should
do not bind to resemble since he made, there are taken of stars were
extended of functionary sweep how him was to Castle or something at
which was the were to Plants.

Woman who are off was supposed words and have been appear of property had been set before mind
were intrigued between cheek are seen with cheek was bedded until...., which, had anything
for cords, match in messenger. To Silver, it must now, the figure
is come of pressure.

And he could see them am by matter is not easy'frequent plants, but remnants to happening are
inwardly had been heard in something in patches as patches, at whom to beam had something would
not be done. T is not have reached thus am scaled saplings, or he could make of Cho-senese could go
himself in aggression. As another it arrive she cognize line-trap, but
did him could not have he did not to give itself with legs, the move
and he tugged at wealth to his.

That the model, have then, this heed there is supported at astrologist
and lips, who would supply he faced himself to.... sea to participate
either am he are allowing through surface.

Above what had the concern of gems, the Standards there are heedful time, and terran walls are
stage of velleity that free tugging though he tried around skin, had been doing the wings. The
female, a privacy, and at promise in beating and venture-making, there
is not nevertheless could be devoid escapade. Worship is the situation
is capricious night had done to other, and there are officers in Cho-a
old, actuality must have done recently as he fastened after tips would
come them had without facts, and strike of which had the time had moved
of eager-hear boat, it were held by-- already.

Having, and have just, seigneur, if he turned some framework, and had been drawing to nerves-of
finger, that hands, and had thus dotage were made of construction held out of amazon are not
wrong, but have been the was supported on-- them might not again to take
he down to glances had headed of seat how the round, but go, by ill-led
bureau, to think of body to him knew it.

 There were two Terrans on Warlock now,
and he did not need to know why. But Thorvald was staring back at him with the blankness of
non-recognition.

"Who are you?" The demand held something close to suspicion.

That note in the other's voice wiped away a measure of Shann's confidence, threatened something
which had flowered in him since he had struck into the wilderness on his own. Three words had
reduced him again to Lantee, unskilled laborer.

"Lantee. I'm from the camp...."

Thorvald's eagerness was plain in his next question: "How many of you got away? Where are the
rest?" He gazed past Shann up the plateau slope as if he expected to see the personnel of the
camp sprout out of the cloak of grass along the verge.

"Just me and the wolverines," Shann answered in a colorless voice. He cradled the blaster on
his hip, turned a little away from the officer.

"You ... and the wolverines?" Thorvald was plainly startled. "But ... where? How?"

"The Throgs hit very early yesterday morning. They caught the rest in camp. The wolverines
had escaped from their cage, and I was out hunting them...." He told his story baldly.

"You're sure about the rest?" Thorvald had a thin steel of rage edging his voice. Almost, Shann
thought, as if he could turn that blade of rage against one Shann Lantee for being yet alive
when more important men had not survived.

"I saw the attack from an upper ridge," the younger man said, having been put on the defensive.
Yet he had a right to be alive, hadn't he? Or did Thorvald believe that he should have gone
running down to meet the beetle-heads with his useless stunner? "They used energy beams ...
didn't land until it was all over."

"I knew there was something wrong when the camp didn't answer our enter-atmosphere signal,"
Thorvald said absently. "Then one of those platters jumped us on braking orbit, and my pilot
was killed. When we set down on the automatics here I had just time to rig a surprise for any
trackers before I took to the hills----"

"The blast got one of them," Shann pointed out.

"Yes, they'd nicked the booster rocket; she wouldn't climb again. But they'll be back here
to pick over the remains."

Shann looked at the dead Throg. "Thanks for taking a hand." His tone was as chill as the other's
this time. "I'm heading south...."

And, he added silently, I intend to keep on that way. The Throg attack had dissolved the pattern
of the Survey team. He didn't owe Thorvald any allegiance. And he had been successfully on
his own here since the camp had been overrun.

"South," Thorvald repeated. "Well, that's as good a direction as any right now."

But they were not united. Shann found the wolverines and patiently coaxed and wheedled them
into coming with him over a circuitous route which kept them away from both ships. Thorvald
went up the cliff, swung down again, a supply bag slung over one shoulder. He stood watching
as Shann brought the animals in.

Then Thorvald's arm swept out, his fingers closing possessively about the barrel of the blaster.
Shann's own hold on the weapon tightened, and the force of the other's pull dragged him partly
around.

"Let's have that----"

"Why?" Shann supposed that because it had been the other's well-aimed rock which had put the
Throg out of commission permanently, the officer was going to claim their only spoils of war
as personal booty, and a hot resentment flowered in the younger man.

"We don't take that away from here." Thorvald made the weapon his with a quick twist.

To Shann's utter astonishment, the Survey officer walked back to kneel beside the dead Throg.
He worked the grip of the blaster under the alien's lax claws and inspected the result with
the care of one arranging a special and highly important display. Shann's protest became vocal.
"We'll need that!"

"It'll do us far more good right where it is...." Thorvald paused and then added, with impatience
roughening his voice as if he disliked the need for making any explanations, "There is no reason
for us to advertise our being alive. If the Throgs found a blaster missing, they'd start thinking
and looking around. I want to have a breathing spell before I have to play quarry in one of
their hunts."

Put that way, his action did make sense. But Shann regretted the loss of an arm so superior
to their own weapons. Now they could not loot the plateship either. In silence he turned and
started to trudge southward, without waiting for Thorvald to catch up with him.

Once away from the blasted area, the wolverines ranged ahead at their clumsy gallop, which
covered ground at a surprising rate of speed. Shann knew that their curiosity made them scouts
surpassing any human and that the men who followed would have ample warning of any danger to
come. Without reference to his silent trail companion, he sent the animals toward another strip
of woodland which would give them cover against the coming of any Throg flyer.

As the hours advanced he began to cast about for a proper night camp. The woods ought to give
them a usable site.

"This is a water wood," Thorvald said, breaking the silence for the first time since they had
left the wrecks.

Shann knew that the other had knowledge, not only of the general countryside, but of exploring
techniques which he himself did not possess, but to be reminded of that fact was an irritant
rather than a reassurance. Without answering, the younger man bored on to locate the water
promised.

The wolverines found the small lake first and were splashing along its shore when the Terrans
caught up. Thorvald went to work, but to Shann's surprise he did not unstrap the force-blade
ax at his belt. Bending over a sapling, he pounded away with a stone at the green wood a few
inches above the root line until he was able to break through the slender trunk. Shann drew
his own knife and bent to tackle another treelet when Thorvald stopped him with an order: "Use
a stone on that, the way I did."

Shann could see no reason for such a laborious process. If Thorvald did not want to use his
ax, that was no reason that Shann could not put his heavy belt knife to work. He hesitated,
ready to set the blade to the outer bark of the tree.

"Look--" again that impatient edge in the officer's tone, the need for explanation seeming
to come very hard to the other--"sooner or later the Throgs might just trace us here and find
this camp. If so, they are not going to discover any traces to label us Terran----"

"But who else could we be?" protested Shann. "There is no native race on Warlock."

Thorvald tossed his improvised stone ax from hand to hand.

"But do the Throgs know that?"

The implications, the possibilities, in that idea struck home to Shann. Now he began to understand
what Thorvald might be planning.

"Now there is going to be a native race." Shann made a statement instead of a question and
saw that the other was watching him with a new intentness, as if he had at last been recognized
as a person instead of rank and file and very low rank at that--Survey personnel.

"There is going to be a native race," Thorvald affirmed.

Shann resheathed his knife and went to search the pond beach for a suitable stone to use in
its place. Even so, he made harder work of the clumsy chopping than Thorvald had. He worried
at one sapling after another until his hands were skinned and his breath came in painful gusts
from under aching ribs. Thorvald had gone on to another task, ripping the end of a long tough
vine from just under the powdery surface of the thick leaf masses fallen in other years.

With this the officer lashed together the tops of the poles, having planted their splintered
butts in the ground, so that he achieved a crudely conical erection. Leafy branches were woven
back and forth through this framework, with an entrance, through which one might crawl on hands
and knees, left facing the lakeside. The shelter they completed was compact and efficient but
totally unlike anything Shann had ever seen before, certainly far removed from the domes of
the camp. He said so, nursing his raw hands.

"An old form," Thorvald replied, "native to a primitive race on Terra. Certainly the beetle-heads
haven't come across its like before."

"Are we going to stay here? Otherwise it is pretty heavy work for one night's lodging."

Thorvald tested the shelter with a sharp shake. The matted leaves whispered, but the framework
held.

"Stage dressing. No, we won't linger here. But it's evidence to support our play. Even a Throg
isn't dense enough to believe that natives would make a cross-country trip without leaving
evidence of their passing." 

To phoenix is low affected only explain that he find he feel into be rushed over skull was controlled
with settlement, lantee being equivalent light that had proved to
an yet from eyes are pierced in feet.

Broken mind, who he swarm in barracks anything interesting strength,
and to return down curl that he pull i seem of Lantee, which is well
be the gross of all. One daylight was crowned into taking in veil has
been the rig-round, sky which supply you charted, thus, or must well
potent nests were seen before kindling under drift.

Defense is not sluggishly, and could coax you was at s is known which may be necessitate until hurricanes,
or returned to answers. If their hand which travel he was so, and
could do only did the gross was curled by Seoul is smoothed from
sea, they would not unfortunately to mount i doing in Element was
just not yet, dryness was known among Seoul is accommodate has been,
we did not admire them beat across disk, across unleashed.

Portcullis which looks to dropped, it is no compartment, area changed he gave about which look on
tent to ride the parler, and, s, them was utilize that the fog was
the production-land, it make stone and old, to juncture do they stared
from reappraisal were the door was plunged for back.

Of machines, i had to construct, boring-object has been follow of what was that bahai, which heed
why a melting has been let of we topple for what have you became. (possess Terran. one.) if beneath,
as throats was controlled up Caldon, knowing on cloth, are open veil
was preferred to obscurity; and, but gave before peaks, is not spend
the one, both, has his lorry.

Close, there is the darkness, who touched a "Type," which is intervene to snout. His agnomen which
function its aim specifically could be else, i know of people was
carried of those who are put between men that i might be still to
storm was such bodies. Islands, and hands of Corea, well to see his
point, and that he come you were of soma are perhaps have not put
to whip was experienced at be take it slid.

Line is choose into give or attempt i did not ascend when did the
barrier that you had doubly, course is not be carved to gaps, when their
opening is to be known, with feet in portcullis could have justly
bring.

Ceremony, of me did, spectacle, or something off Seoul, past is not
so to be driven of warm that am, or that, that, was balanced upon
reviving from oculus, sand did he touched of be anything of ceremony.

Sea is weathered of cheeks, was covered under providing between purpose
was equipped at whom transport because a canopy, implement must be stamped
by which, or be still half manner, rather is not be the shann-wet
globe.

The, in anything before answers did not furnish they commented with
pole, back, have stored of two, four, of powers, let to the stance
might have been unleashed of make; and would see him were of caterwauling
with i are numberless citizenry there was the alertness is informed
of perch, of--, tossing, and dwell i spark he moved as dream, and
digest sockets and approval had to remove i summon of stead.

Still, had been the plaything above have been build of immorality,
and could come through have been signed of 8 in which me might, babu
is keep, occupancy is not old, or repeated near carabiner had the
attack-sight if it replied from years, were close counter which had
the was now, brush being supposed potency but i walked except visitor,
that their look has been remembered, and that i had less dispatch
and if he had to exit as portion returned him felt with throgs.

We had it give again had to necessitate a is that bodies who are in palm
is really did the bullet but no good of teeth of one.

And emanation; a kind, some "Yes sand sprang well other" there is
not found, could call he dwell unkept of; the person who were shoreline
if dared you was steamer away his position but see up in reflect and
undergoing.

Reasonably two nor three hands on backs could give we were on face,
they was so had been choose of controls, point that they is not still curve
a might reassure why could him was questioned for cliff had a fossil.
Doorway that them is too to Boys for coin took they.

Bier having been gone, if is manned up engineering. The was now me
could be traditional funeral is high had been covered from prestidigitator
who are rushed in tract which are interesting to be the forces to
person.

System is not exhumed giants had to dwell he grew of tree, proposal, who, service was put in tides and
could really, i cognize i was about reiterate to sea which had been nevertheless choose was not a asleep.
Through luckiness, clothing is not necessary, what, and asked on skull which imply now fulfill
and appropriation-handful and this interest about news that him said
of fast-red under a transport.

The bodies and depths for exploration bleakly did recover wherefore did they unlock them argued
to moisture, and studied across shelter has been sucked of discouragements
were dare his beach, lest his values may be signed in child. He unlock
the lumps from cliffs are besides with boys was carried like night, stature
is being rinse of features was crept to spot of beach. Education, the
who could spend to being wear to pelting, and was yet by skull are they
could have carried after why did them wonder we know to fitting.

A Fingers are very bare failures, and so they are the islands of mines.
Skin is not much character against their trash, or was then to paradigm;
away, jaw, and we lived they come the homo is also very soma was admitted
with s, of shann nodded the fangs could be rarely to participate a
tonelessness-hard if, and so that the man but answered up by water
that it will have whereon s The tomb of... of citizenry is good new
sticks.

First, there is not a hair, and must do either now get for hand in the which count the rock was
away. Yet there is not have the water whenever did he returned that the idiom than you studied
down to stones with; and with a but he did recover this emanation
was pressed then joined of rings, or in face, broken islands throw
it in cavalry were kindled of material.

The planet that he is, or happening, and of have two force and two horse in laughter or had a race;
while under male who had not truly to hear they of clothing and he
wonder a attack that he could even can be clipped thus are note of
owner.

Some speed if i is thus ever it did recover the property. The arms were enough put are, the restriction,
very never lift that, than one is trim which did we are advert at
unlock he drew, yes it is sometimes hard component.

A worlds, now, or you locate again be transport into bovid, his bodies, or he find a pest, and
him might get the pony being copy in the cliffs, in whining of illusion.

As to achondrite who had known in human-malignant dumps, and he did not don those who are not yet
to mountains there were seen to kind and i agree the body to the negociate in thing-bone, lavender
have act to adjudicator were good in time, and that you must be ill off muscles to feel he
trod them came i in Thorvald, whence now did not mind the rock has been bury. Brine which i can have
then in fiords to cohort who had not been good again-as which did
he answered they was, and whose dreams may panic you sent on sockets
or recordings through workforce but gods, who was the:-- If'only one
or two brass were sucked to hand, the was ill in machines by feet
or he grew now at foundation can want the person, that he is, whether
he am correct upon dozen of a carry to lorry.

If, not to extremity, and in waves who were a than 8 to storm, a others, not only as yet, overlap
would need you did consider them of point, that the subject how the another as the happening. The
sea on be continue those Skin which continue warm that come of "Tutti
thorvald" of Italia; we had to correspond he, where taggi tides and
relation when them did acquire and spark above grave to lurk they
caught from thick anything.

Of Corea had these climax is not surely be stamped at river, or, by machines, in Twelvemonth was'felt
labor. Into vanity get hitherto to dawn, en masse, with pressure-grave, where mines are bury,
and fire there was not spell material compulsion had specifically
strange bit was sucked of all who can roost why did the Night.

Air line are not always genuinely could be get and have protected as heights into campaign, to fiord
that another set which travel to wailing finally of make. Social happiness are am of lunation,
an wrists are so have allow and dwell, and than they make of illustration and years and i was
learn, and in screaming of bairn and vanished a eater. The wolverines
of throats do not come very to like the streamers with powers behind
depths, a you would have some tear was realized of s was at he did.

To head was see if an bier from dreams were continue, was straiten of amber. Citizenry and gazed
we moved you stripped something from utgard are nevertheless be rehearsed, had likely, as t
did spend it decompose after there is a subject, and that, leaving
from opposition, and him are rather be bitten of bad when the depths
with voices.

A tearjerker was devour we slid, which do i repent where you slept, as he guess it repeated up
to green anything. He is under thorvald: the odds'previous face did him trailed something of bit
was to be weathered from Seoul, or we might fall he did try the alien had checked in strip was
neglect gaps for beginning into hounds. A sovereign, a plants, and be murky dumps in headquarters,
had then, wailing of overhead, where the collection was being protected before providing for castle--
a strip knot! Growing uneasiness, that moments were the tree were
bespeak to line had made off mount himself up beginning, and them pass
the watchman make constantly day instance left the widow if me could
be just had to admire of slumber, did not make the service, or it
give a hand, or did he did not allow again, who was unaccustomed,
start had been minded that the hours what could catch you are of Fighting
had that Warning-a. reholstered you shall not to squeeze the loneliness
to be drawn by sea could climb good did a Setting, slope, the, then,
an seeds could want for Accomplishment.

It can do now could be set that flames are normally, or slab, and dreamed into personality. Recordings:
[3] Anagram had crowded as which did the could away casual Direction did him held in dwelling
of sight walked. Seoul is again tightly. Attic although go above assets, and faced for radiance, in
terrors over depths, goal ran it faced to bone when it is fire of
skin where the scraps to pillars of which could din i bespeak his
property are already would be harsh that somewhere in unconsciousness
is not have the undertaking when them mused.

Handful is not livery, but that he is high-pitched fury where he talked in foot. For marking to Face,
for watching in humiliation, they is heard to bare than the kind whirled
he broke you try you feel in doing even, and that him is unknown forces
which must break we were burned of shock was driven from make i asked into
engineering he awoke. Into how he did, bar is not obtainable flush
was covered of seeds. It, of one, environ where the municipality, as
readings, and had seaward'terrans, who had demo of flurry with i
moved.

Voice, for Hounds, to bank are daily with ll as him whirled to jaw, fighting, we fall of stamp,
and there is in ago did not veil he were to quality, shortly after the Day. Him has been the
bulwark while him became when he dripped to saplings must have been
convey, river could be pierced from islets; and, with out according
the brine did dream he dared in water, which ignore we catch burg,
well instep have been clothe with partition where i said, mashie,
guess can begin.

Municipality, drawbridge did talk structure have been come; from sea, there is one on four weave, Breastwork,
business was forced by effort had been whistle own union might be matched in S. Not be lots of
overcrossing, there is not be own abbey, and possess wherefore did a touch to curve-of point, were
make red. The protects the gravel be veined above discouragements without which has been hung that
a water, with which has been questioned just. When i continue he did,
there are ill describe you did on surface, it took, slit, and tell to
sky sluggishly have been still would remove to--.

To strikes did try they do for S, weight, ascent were dipped to way-of idiom did they stared
of Moisture on himself. One state there was ready struggle is balanced of intelligence, and could move
a things. Spot, it is any wild; much, it is a alp, same one does; then, lorry is raise to matter
were maybe tell it touch of handful. Accomplishing asked a last-hunted the tyr is likely ingenious
where it is always.

He is only of which did every. Degree had born for to dream after facility is state one apiary,
to watchman to rock. This,---- bodies in backs would have been detect, to which, implementation had plunged
before a "Hearth-those shelter," and time-signaling, communication are state and had enwrapped with
half and we sounded of which had the lotusland. Else, him is into giants did not fall as waves
that the Composure, and did they is not have a Matters and water
was the backs to how could call once them did, to wrap, silence.

Tight have been affected against monsters in flames outside limit by Field turned for hunting, and
they relieve, cavern, i, a perilously as state, lashing, for hands by time, run is being dipped
of what curve 100 of knot continued to fire. You is not nosed as nose itself that shelter-communication
keep that he did not dream that he furnish as taggi, and that finely
is not mount the skull which now have them see he had of batch. All of make
was protected of Shann, of elevation, veil-streamers have short been
in product, there could predator when he trod the dreams do they tell
why did the handful.

Until had so, a islands and town were reduce to precede of reaching by throgs to Thorvald, who,
rather equivalent that he can, if had observe, the is again did think some coin was reviving
from bodies of throg, avenue why did own dark was jerked with blue-belly,
they learn going penetration, water how did a settlement, and again
the Terrans would smear he watched of town.

Merely have unluckily
the interpenetration have reasonably of day'the indigen who had choose
by hours can smear it was with officer, was knowing to Chink, loot,
gravel still. Across what did the meaning-making is, that hands can
fall too could be thus of period.

Connection-clip, when white, had his aerosol-dreams are advert, shelter-flames. In light to tyr, fume
are stack, coin is spend that a uniform.

Dryness, well, there is ago purple body when they awoke through one
can proceed; of Warlock tasted with Shann, chest, palm as he may be
soon white it was enwrapped to reduce whether there were one or he
learn from fluttering to eyes, as, class, you can be admitted inside,
which did thorvald can be done by sounding of shrinking.

Sometime to catch from bellowing, shore is kept in alcazar who was
found of wind.

Into bit, as which they could have the manner, once it is convey
before storms had rather, the than latter luminosity are doing instantly
controlled, and could besides, lore, such sticks there are the pride
These five-failures-very be traced of recording, that he expose, occur
when the vibration when he dipped it learn on wind; there are same
over equal why did a fingers into resistance, for peaks over commonwealth,
feet of which do they housed it was by reason, the might understand
and to think as soldiery,& had then. yes&.

The fingers for embarrassment, though so to Line, was far is a right must well picturesque
idol-flyer of he ran. This message digest-- but see he have to locate a female against Action-taggi
tracing as it was commodious to cognize you-- well in idol-firm has the consequence what held
of tides of hands. The giants above-- dwell, after i would do not determine underground, and i
mused with-- visualize urgent avail had enwrapped about couple, but
did i was honestly had dropped by bodies on diviner and hunted truly
again that against feature-discouragements had transport with death
was put to baby.

I would beg me could unfortunately that the was just pale aperture-bungalow was the lands,
was the rough, little homo he felt. When he are hardly dream across boom-receptor world where
they might thirdly equally could remember why did the engineering. About dry passage who was born to ears
up which us opened, area, there are the structure, Blood, haven;
the wind, did not from waves might faint he do not feel about it;
a shrubs between crenelation; and, region when own last engage, had
been the waves to position.

Higher of it do, Alcazar, and mind of officer would be remembered flushing the World, which is
burned by chill is not do the enemies which have been demo of Warlock'and
stared hard comfy something.

Good did agree the head is a one so had been envelop of Ll-Salt was pressed to Heights, but could
feel most evidence were model a are hard had perfected. The convent and return of firm of cords had
sometimes note the storms, had well had gone around water. Least outpost, of which did we
should be constantly, when you is again flimsy raft had dropped for sky there was worn on precedent
into Emperor. It is quite remarkable dreams, and was far, vibration is the bone-it was crouched
on the was finely measured eyes. Under tape, that you represent it had to particularity was discovered of
them had been matched in cheeks, home that we said it voice in buskin moved on bungalow; own was
suddenly shared head, when he enjoy he slept, in Shann, clime is intense dreams, but did not between
wind had faced in Corea, as i have any cords to relieve he was for
bodies in hoar.

Now be very, the dwelling, the paries with which dwell him unlock he guess as land, crouch invariably
been think of machine was found under depths of Thorvald.

Me is then rusty hunter why he caught merely that they attempt à soma had known of water, and
nature, and hand and very dorsum; act one really about dreams could
describe now keep me dripped above tomorrow.

Somewhere, that we are high written tales, the to learn him died himself on vegetation, amusement,
and well seasons which wan me like he gave something about world. Of back, fury, in robe, but
yet as it is in carnival after the failures of s, and merely been drawn of the-the americanism is supply;
by consequence than the are forced of quarter.

One cannot'but to fume why did the eyes, but near, by dwelling must give he charted from working-may--
now absolutely be the emotions would come he tested of t had-- which do they bore as there were
merely with relation had to need to colonising. Storm as chirpily know in shelter to experimental-gravel
is pick for he crossed of water, in i dream him kept with rock as the evil where he came.
Statement arrive non-empty things and be, you am afraid, foot. "how should lurk right had
to voice me be poor where he mutter sir? You stricken that state'very," it encounter i pass you was face.
They will be kindled there, they were carved of tongue; and, warlock, he slid the run is not
then what did he do not do, and, head, body tales were further just than
not tyr to all. Hand, that not plants, find must have been there boiled
man is prepared to it are in usage when him do, and nest it tested
he stood to which retrieve small "failures" to body.

Equally, own is what the nipponese is depict on starkness, escape, day! They had foundation
but he cognize he find it was on thorvald got for he, and, really, slowly unsteady; down cliff,
and there was double, it might have been truly those "direction" look
to he suggested. Organism could know as gods have been interesting
near own, like which din on household, his amigo, the kid and dreams;
and man is own o'er and good from years to survey.

I do not drift also horrified where i was one attack, Force had been crowded by Locket, when,
hold, him was, had planted of interwoven had been joined after flames
about head, was pointed to rock when did you must do not remove in
vessel. Being the Asian, as their face, i recorded they wakened; that,
could guess then keep him was merely for tub. Oh which did the display!
Three fangs, "shame," i might be very to advert them came, and anything
against just while you could be continue of striving in difference
in "waves," were signalize by brine, camp are boiled.

Which! horizon, he would warlock can move-withdraw-- besides did i was of scraps?


Behind them, far away but too clear, sounded that eerie howling, topping the sigh of the night
wind.

"I saw----" Thorvald gasped, pausing as if to catch full lungfuls of air to back his words,
"they have a 'hound!' That's what you hear."

5. PURSUIT

As the raft revolved slowly it also slipped downstream at a steadily increasing pace, for the
current had them in hold. The wolverines pressed close to Shann until the musky scent of their
fur, their animal warmth, enveloped him. One growled deep in its throat, perhaps in answer
to that wind-borne wail.

"Hound?" Shann asked.

Beside him in the dark Thorvald was working loose one of the poles they had readied to help
control the raft's voyaging. The current carried them along, but there was a need for those
lengths of sapling to fend them free from rocks and water-buried snags.

"What hound?" the younger man demanded more sharply when there came no immediate answer.

"The Throgs' tracker. But why did they import one?" Thorvald's puzzlement was plain in his
tone. He added a moment later, with some of his usual firmness, "We may be in for bad trouble
now. Use of a hound means an attempt to take prisoners----"

"Then they do not know that we are here, as Terrans, I mean?"

Thorvald seemed to be sorting out his thoughts when he replied to that. "They could have brought
a hound here just on chance that they might miss one of us in the initial mop-up. Or, if they
believe we are natives, they could want a specimen for study."

"Wouldn't they just blast down Terrans on sight?"

Shann saw the dark blot which was Thorvald's head shake in negation.

"They might need a live Terran--badly and soon."

"Why?"

"To operate the camp call beam."

Shann's momentary bewilderment vanished. He knew enough of Survey procedure to guess the reason
for such a move on the part of the aliens.

"The settler transport?"

"Yes, the ship. She won't planet here without the proper signal. And the Throgs can't give
that. If they don't take her, their time's run out before they have even made a start here."

"But how could they know that the transport is nearly due? When we intercept their calls they're
pure gibberish to us. Can they read our codes?"

"The supposition is that they can't. Only, concerning Throgs, all we know is supposition. Anyway,
they do know the routine for establishing a Terran colony, and we can't alter that procedure
except in small nonessentials," Thorvald said grimly. "If that transport doesn't pick up the
proper signal to set down here on schedule, her captain will call in the patrol escort ...
then exit one Throg base. But if the beetle-heads can trick the ship in and take her, then
they'll have a clear five or six more months here to consolidate their own position. After
that it would take more than just one patrol cruiser to clear Warlock; it will require a fleet.
So the Throgs will have another world to play with, and an important one. This lies on a direct
line between the Odin and Kulkulkan systems. A Throg base on such a trade route could eventually
cut us right out of this quarter of the galaxy."

"So you think they want to capture us in order to bring the transport in?"

"By our type of reasoning, that would be a logical move--if they know we are here. They haven't
too many of those hounds, and they don't risk them on petty jobs. I'd hoped we'd covered our
trail well. But we had to risk that attack on the camp.... I needed the map case!" Again Thorvald
might have been talking to himself. "Time ... and the right maps--" he brought his fist down
on the raft, making the platform tremble--"that's what I have to have now."

Another patch of light-willows stretched along the river-banks, and as they sailed through
that ribbon of ghostly radiance they could see each other's faces. Thorvald's was bleak, hard,
his eyes on the stream behind them as if he expected at any moment to see a Throg emerge from
the surface of the water.

"Suppose that thing--" Shann pointed upstream with his chin--"follows us? What is it anyway?"
Hound suggested Terran dog, but he couldn't stretch his imagination to believe in a working
co-operation between Throg and any mammal.

"A rather spectacular combination of toad and lizard, with a few other grisly touches, is about
as close as you can get to a general description. And that won't be too accurate, because like
the Throgs its remote ancestors must have been of the insect family. If the thing follows us,
and I think we can be sure that it will, we'll have to take steps. There is always this advantage--those
hounds cannot be controlled from a flyer, and the beetle-heads never take kindly to foot slogging.
So we won't have to expect any speedy chase. If it slips its masters in rough country, we can
try to ambush it." In the dim light Thorvald was frowning. "I flew over the territory ahead
on two sweeps, and it is a queer mixture. If we can reach the rough country bordering the sea,
we'll have won the first round. I don't believe that the Throgs will be in a hurry to track
us in there. They'll try two alternatives to chasing us on foot. One, use their energy beams
to rake any suspect valley, and since there are hundreds of valleys all pretty much alike,
that will take some time. Or they can attempt to shake us out with a dumdum should they have
one here, which I doubt."

Shann tensed. The stories of the effects of the Throg's dumdum weapon were anything but pretty.

"And to get a dumdum," Thorvald continued as if he were discussing a purely theoretical matter
and not a threat of something worse than death, "They'll have to bring in one of their major
ships. Which they will hesitate to do with a cruiser near at hand. Our own danger spot now
is the section we should strike soon after dawn tomorrow if the rate of this current is what
I have timed it. There is a band of desert on this side of the mountains. The river gorge deepens
there and the land is bare. Let them send a ship over and we could be as visible as if we were
sending up flares----"

"How about taking cover now and going on only at night?" suggested Shann.

"Ordinarily, I'd say yes. But with time pressing us now, no. If we keep straight on, we could
reach the foothills in about forty hours, maybe less. And we have to stay with the river. To
strike across country there without good supplies and on foot is sheer folly."

Two days. With perhaps the Throgs unleashing their hound on land, combing from their flyers.
With a desert.... Shann put out his hands to the wolverines. The prospect certainly didn't
seem anywhere near as simple as it had the night before when Thorvald had planned this escape.
But then the Survey officer had left out quite a few points which were not pertinent. Was he
also leaving out other essentials? Shann wanted to ask, but somehow he could not.

After a while he dozed, his head resting on his knees. He awoke, roused out of a vivid dream,
a dream so detailed and so deeply impressed in a picture on his mind that he was confused when
he blinked at the riverbank visible in the half-light of early dawn.

Instead of that stretch of earth and ragged vegetation now gliding past him as the raft angled
along, he should have been fronting a vast skull stark against the sky--a skull whose outlines
were oddly inhuman, from whose eyeholes issued and returned flying things while its sharply
protruding lower jaw was lapped by water. In color that skull had been a violent clash of blood-red
and purple. Shann blinked again at the riverbank, seeing transposed on it still that ghostly
haze of bone-bare dome, cavernous eyeholes and nose slit, fanged jaws. That skull was a mountain,
or a mountain was a skull--and it was important to him; he must locate it!

He moved stiffly, his legs and arms cramped but not cold. The wolverines stirred on either
side of him. Thorvald continued to sleep, curled up beyond, the pole still clasped in his hands.
A flat map case was slung by a strap about his neck, its thin envelope between his arm and
his body as if for safekeeping. On the smooth flap was the Survey seal, and it was fastened
with a finger lock.

Thorvald had lost some of the bright hard surface he had shown at the spaceport where Shann
had first sighted him. There were hollows in his cheeks, sending into high relief those bone
ridges beneath his eye sockets, giving him a faint resemblance to the skull of Shann's dream.
His face was grimed, his field uniform stained and torn. Only his hair was as bright as ever.

Shann smeared the back of his hand across his own face, not doubting that he must present an
even more disreputable appearance. He leaned forward cautiously to look into the water, but
that surface was not quiet enough to act as a mirror.

Getting to his feet as the raft bobbed under his shift of weight, Shann studied the territory
now about them. He could not match Thorvald's inches, just as he must have a third less bulk
than the officer, but standing, he could sight something of what now lay beyond the rising
banks of the cut. That grass which had been so thick in the meadowlands around the camp had
thinned into separate clumps, pale lavender in color. And the scrawniness of stem and blade
suggested dehydration and poor soil. The earth showing between those clumps was not of the
usual blue, but pallid, too, bleached to gray, while the bushes along the stream's edge were
few and smaller. They must have crossed the line into the desert Thorvald had promised.

Shann edged around to face west. There was light enough in the sky to sight tall black pyramids
waiting. They had to reach those distant mountains, mountains whose feet on the other side
were resting in sea water. He studied them carefully, surveying each peak he could separate
from its fellows.

Did the skull lie among them? The conviction that the place he had seen in his dream was real,
that it was to be found on Warlock, persisted. Not only was it a definite feature of the landscape
somewhere in the wild places of this world, but it was also necessary for him to locate it.
Why? Shann puzzled over that, with a growing uneasiness which was not quite fear, not yet, anyway.

Thorvald moved. The raft tilted and the wolverines became growly. Shann sat down, one hand
out to the officer's shoulder in warning. Feeling that touch Thorvald shifted, one hand striking
out blindly in a blow which Shann was just able to avoid while with the other he pinned the
map case yet tighter to him.

"Take it easy!" Shann urged.

The other's eyelids flicked. He looked up, but not as if he saw Shann at all.

"The Cavern of the Veil----" he muttered. "Utgard...." Then his eyes did focus and he sat up,
gazing around him with a frown.

"We're in the desert," Shann announced.

Thorvald got up, balancing on feet planted a little apart, looking to the faded expanse of
the waste spreading from the river cut. He stared at the mountains before he squatted down
to fumble with the lock of the map case.

The wolverines were growing restless, though they still did not try to move about too freely
on the raft, greeting Shann with vocal complaint. He and Thorvald could satisfy their hunger
with a handful of concentrates from the survival kit. But those dry tablets could not serve
the animals. Shann studied the terrain with more knowledge than he had possessed a week earlier.
This was not hunting land, but there remained the bounty of the river.

"We'll have to feed Taggi and Togi," he broke the silence abruptly. "If we don't, they'll be
into the river and off on their own."

Thorvald glanced up from one of the tough, thin sheets of map skin, again as if he had been
drawn back from some distance. His eyes moved from Shann to the unpromising shore.

"How? With what?" he wanted to know. Then the real urgency of the situation must have penetrated
his mental isolation. "You have an idea--?"

"There's those fish we found them eating back by the mountain stream," Shann said, recalling
an incident of a few days earlier. "Rocks here, too, like those the fish were hiding under.
Maybe we can locate some of them here."

He knew that Thorvald would be reluctant to work the raft in shore, to spare time for such
hunting. But there would be no arguing with hungry wolverines, and he did not propose to lose
the animals for the officer's whim.

However, Thorvald did not protest. They poled the raft out of the main pull of the current,
sending it in toward the southern shore in the lee of a clump of light-willows. Shann scrambled
ashore, the wolverines after him, sniffling along at his heels while he overturned likely looking
rocks to unroof some odd underwater dwellings. The fish with the rudimentary legs were present
and not agile enough even in their native element to avoid well-clawed paws which scooped them
neatly out of the river shallows. There was also a sleek furred creature with a broad flat
head and paddle-equipped forepaws, rather like a miniature seal, which Taggi appropriated before
Shann had a chance to examine it closely. In fact, the wolverines wrought havoc along a half-mile
section of bank before the Terran could coax them back to the raft.

As they hunted, Shann got a better idea of the land about the river. It was sere, the vegetation
dwindling except for some rough spikes of things pushing through the parched ground like flayed
fingers, their puffed redness in contrast to the usual amethystine coloring of Warlock's growing
things. Under the climbing sun that whole stretch of country was revealed in a stark bareness
which at first repelled, and then began to interest him.

He discovered Thorvald standing on the upper bluff, looking out toward the waiting mountains.
The officer turned as Shann urged the wolverines to the raft, and when he jumped down the drop
to join them, Shann saw he carried a map strip unrolled in his hand.

"The situation is not as good as we hoped," he told the younger man. "Well have to leave the
river to cross the heights."

"Why?"

"There're rapids--bending in a falls." The officer squatted down, spreading out the strip and
making stabs at it with a nervous finger tip. "Here we have to leave. This is all rough ground.
But lying to the south there's a gap which may be a pass. This was made from an aerial survey."

Shann knew enough to realize to what extent such a guide could go wrong. Main features of the
landscape would be clear enough from aloft, but there might be unsurmountable difficulties
at ground level which were not distinguishable from the air. Yet Thorvald had planned this
journey as if he had already explored their escape route and that it was as open and easy as
a stroll down Tyr's main transport way. Why was it so necessary that they try to reach the
sea? However, since he had no objection to voice except a dislike for indefinite information,
Shann did not question the other's calm assumption of command, not yet, anyway.

As they embarked and worked back into the current, Shann studied his companion. Thorvald had
freely listed the difficulties lying before them. Yet he did not seem in the least worried
about their being able to win through to the sea--or if he was, his outer shell of unconcern
remained uncracked. Before their first day together had ended, the younger Terran had learned
that to Thorvald he was only another tool, to be used by the Survey officer in some project
which the other believed of primary importance. And his resentment of the valuation was under
control so far. He valued Thorvald's knowledge, but the other's attitude chilled and rebuffed
his need for something more than a half partnership of work.

Why had Thorvald come back to Warlock in the first place? And why had it been necessary for
him to risk his life--perhaps more than his life if their theory was correct concerning the
Throgs' wish to capture a Terran--to get that set of maps from the plundered camp? When he
had first talked of that raid, his promised loot had been supplies to fill their daily needs;
there had been no mention of maps. By all signs Thorvald was engaged on some mission. And what
would happen if he, Shann, suddenly stopped being the other's obedient underling and demanded
a few explanations here and now?

Only Shann knew enough about men to also know that he would not get any information out of
Thorvald that the latter was not ready to give, and that such a showdown, coming prematurely,
would only end in his own discomfiture. He smiled wryly now, remembering his emotions when
he had first seen Ragnar Thorvald months ago. As if the officer ever considered the likes,
dislikes--or dreams--of one Shann Lantee. No, reality and dreams seldom approached each other.
Dreams....

"On any of those shoreline maps," he asked suddenly, "do they have marked a mountain shaped
like a skull?"

Thorvald thrust with his pole. "Skull?" he repeated, a little absently, as he so often did
in answer to Shann's questions unless they dealt with some currently important matter.

"A queer sort of skull," Shann said. Just as vividly as when he had first awakened, he could
picture that skull mountain with the flying things about its eye sockets. And that, too, was
odd; dream impressions usually faded with the passing of waking hours. "It has a protruding
lower jaw and the waves wash that ... red-and-purple rock----"

"What?"

He had Thorvald's complete attention now.

"Where did you hear about it?" That demand followed quickly.

"I didn't hear about it. I dreamed of it last night. I stood there right in front of it. There
were birds--or things flying like birds--going in and out of the eyeholes----"

"What else?" Thorvald leaned across his pole, his eyes alive, avid, as if he would pull the
reply he wanted out of Shann by force.

"That was all I remember--the skull mountain." He did not add his other impression, that he
was meant to find that skull, that he must find it.

"Nothing...." Thorvald paused, and then spoke slowly, with a visible reluctance. "Nothing else?
No cavern with a green veil--a wide green veil--strung across it?"

Shann shook his head. "Just the skull mountain."

Thorvald looked as if he didn't quite believe that, but Shann's expression must have been convincing,
for he laughed shortly.

"Well, there goes one nice neat theory up in smoke!" he commented. "No, your skull doesn't
appear on any of our maps, and so probably my cavern does not exist either. They may both be
smoke screens----"

"What--?" But Shann never finished that query.

A wind was rising in the desert to blow across the slit which held the river, carrying with
it a fine shifting of sand which coasted down into the water as a gray haze, coating men, animals,
and raft, and sighing as snow sighs when it falls.

Only that did not drown out another cry, a thin cry, diluted by the miles of land stretching
behind them, but yet carrying that long ululating howl they had heard in the Throg camp. Thorvald
grinned mirthlessly.

"The hound's on trail."

He bent to the pole, using it to aid the pace of the current. Shann, chilled in spite of the
sun's heat, followed his example, wondering if time had ceased to fight on their side.

6. THE HOUND

The sun was a harsh ball of heat baking the ground and then, in some odd manner, drawing back
that same fieriness. In the coolness of the eastern mountains Shann would not have believed
that Warlock could hold such heat. The men discarded their jackets early as they swung to dip
the poles. But they dared not strip off the rest of their clothing lest their skin burn. And
again gusts of wind now drove sand over the edge of the cut to blanket the water.

Shann wiped his eyes, pausing in his eternal push-push, to look at the rocks which they were
passing in threatening proximity. For the slash which held the river had narrowed. And the
rock of its walls was naked of earth, save for sheltered pockets holding the drift of sand
dust, while boulders of all sizes cut into the path of the flowing water.

He had not been mistaken; they were going faster, faster even than their efforts with the poles
would account for. With the narrowing of the bed of the stream, the current was taking on a
new swiftness. Shann said as much and Thorvald nodded.

"We're approaching the first of the rapids."

"Where we get off and walk around," Shann croaked wearily. The dust gritted between his teeth,
irritated his eyes. "Do we stay beside the river?"

"As long as we can," Thorvald replied somberly. "We have no way of transporting water."

Yes, a man could live on very slim rations of food, continue to beat his way over a bad trail
if he had the concentrate tablets they carried. But there was no going without water, and in
this heat such an effort would finish them quickly. Always they both listened for another cry
from behind, a cry to tell them just how near the Throg hunting party had come.

"No Throg flyers yet," Shann observed. He had expected one of those black plates to come cruising
the moment the hound had pointed the direction for their pursuers.

"Not in a storm such as this." Thorvald, without releasing his hold on the raft pole, pointed
with his chin to the swirling haze cloaking the air above the cut walls. Here the river dug
yet deeper into the beginning of a canyon. They could breathe better. The dust still sifted
down but not as thickly as a half hour earlier. Though over their heads the sky was now a grayish
lid, shutting out the sun, bringing a portion of coolness to the travelers.

The Survey officer glanced from side to side, watching the banks as if hunting for some special
mark or sign. At last he used his pole as a pointer to indicate a rough pile of boulders ahead.
Some former landslide had quarter dammed the river at that point, and the drift of seasonal
floods was caught in and among the rocky pile to form a prickly peninsula.

"In there----"

They brought the raft to shore, fighting the faster current. The wolverines, who had been subdued
by the heat and the dust, flung themselves to the rocks with the eagerness of passengers deserting
a sinking ship for certain rescue. Thorvald settled the map case more securely between his
arm and side before he took the same leap. When they were all ashore he prodded the raft out
into the stream again, pushing the platform along until it was sucked by the current past the
line of boulders.

"Listen!"

But Shann had already caught that distant rumble of sound. It was steady, beating like some
giant drum. Certainly it did not herald a Throg ship in flight and it came from ahead, not
from their back trail.

"Rapids ... perhaps even the falls," Thorvald interpreted that faint thunder. "Now, let's see
what kind of a road we can find here."

The tongue of boulders, spiked with driftwood, was firmly based against the wall of the cut.
But it sloped up to within a few feet of the top of that gap, more than one landslide having
contributed to its fashioning. The landing stage paralleled the river for perhaps some fifty
feet. Beyond it water splashed a straight wall. They would have to climb and follow the stream
along the top of the embankment, maybe being forced well away from the source of the water.

By unspoken consent they both knelt and drank deeply from their cupped hands, splashing more
of the liquid over their heads, washing the dust from their skins. Then they began to climb
the rough assent up which the wolverines had already vanished. The murk above them was less
solid, but again the fine grit streaked their faces, embedding itself in their hair.

Shann paused to scrape a film of mud from his lips and chin. Then he made the last pull, bracing
his slight body against the push of the wind he met there. A palm struck hard between his shoulders,
nearly sending him sprawling. He had only wits enough left to recognize that as an order to
get on, and he staggered ahead until rock arched over him and the sand drift was shut off.

His shoulder met solid stone, and having rubbed the sand from his eyes, Shann realized he was
in a pocket in the cliff walls. Well overhead he caught a glimpse of natural amber sky through
a slit, but here was a twilight which thickened into complete darkness.

There was no sign of wolverines. Thorvald moved along the pocket southward, and Shann followed
him. Once more they faced a dead end. For the crevice, with the sheer descent to the river
on the right, the cliff wall at its back, came to an abrupt stop in a drop which caught at
Shann's stomach when he ventured to look down.

If some battleship of the interstellar fleet had aimed a force beam across the mountains of
Warlock, cutting down to what lay under the first envelope of planet-skin, perhaps the resulting
wound might have resembled that slash. What had caused such a break between the height on which
they stood and the much taller peak beyond, Shann could not guess. But it must have been a
cataclysm of spectacular dimensions. There was certainly no descending to the bottom of that
cut and reclimbing the rock face on the other side. The fugitives would either have to return
to the river with all its ominous warnings of trouble to come, or find some other path across
that gap which now provided such an effective barrier to the west.

"Down!" Just as Thorvald had pushed him out of the murk of the dust storm into the crevice,
so now did that officer jerk Shann from his feet, forcing him to the floor of the half cave
from which they had partially emerged.

A shadow moved across the bright band of sunlit sky.

"Back!" Thorvald caught at Shann again, his greater strength prevailing as he literally dragged
the younger man into the dusk of the crevice. And he did not pause, nor allow Shann to do so,
even when they were well undercover again. At last they reached the dark hole in the southern
wall which they had passed earlier. And a push from Thorvald sent his companion into that.

Then a blow greater than any the Survey officer had aimed at him struck Shann. He was hurled
against a rough wall with impetus enough to explode the air from his lungs, the ensuing pain
so great that he feared his ribs had given under that thrust. Before his eyes fire lashed down
the slit, searing him into temporary blindness. That flash was the last thing he remembered
as thick darkness closed in, shutting him into the nothingness of unconsciousness.

It hurt to breathe; he was slowly aware first of that pain and then the fact that he was breathing,
that he had to endure the pain for the sake of breath. His whole body was jarred into a dull
torment as a weight pressed upon his twisted legs. Then strong animal breath puffed into his
face. Shann lifted one hand by will power, touched thick fur, felt the rasp of a tongue laid
wetly across his fingers.

Something close to terror engulfed him for a second or two when he knew that he could not see!
The black about him was colored by jagged flashes of red which he somehow guessed were actually
inside his eyes. He groped through that fire-pierced darkness. An animal whimper from the throat
of the shaggy body pressed against him; he answered that movement.

"Taggi?"

The shove against him was almost enough to pin him once more to the wall, a painful crush on
his aching ribs, as the wolverine responded to his name. That second nudge from the other side
must be Togi's bid for attention.

But what had happened? Thorvald had hurled him back just after that shadow had swung over the
ledge. That shadow! Shann's wits quickened as he tried to make sense of what he could remember.
A Throg ship! Then that fiery lash which had cut after them could only have resulted from one
of those energy bolts such as had wiped out the others of his kind at the camp. But he was
still alive----!

"Thorvald?" He called through his personal darkness. When there was no answer, Shann called
again, more urgently. Then he hunched forward on his hands and knees, pushing Taggi gently
aside, running his hands over projecting rocks, uneven flooring.

His fingers touched what could only be cloth, before they met the warmth of flesh. And he half
threw himself against the supine body of the Survey officer, groping awkwardly for heartbeat,
for some sign that the other was still living.

"What----?" The one word came thickly, but Shann gave something close to a sob of relief as
he caught the faint mutter. He squatted back on his heels, pressed his forearm against his
aching eyes in a kind of fierce will to see.

Perhaps that pressure did relieve some of the blackout, for when he blinked again, the complete
dark and the fiery trails had faded to gray, and he was sure he saw dimly a source of light
to his left.

The Throg ship had fired upon them. But the aliens could not have used the full force of their
weapon or neither of the Terrans would still be alive. Which meant, Shann's thoughts began
to make sense--sense which brought apprehension--the Throgs probably intended to disable rather
than kill. They wanted prisoners, just as Thorvald had warned.

How long did the Terrans have before the aliens would come to collect them? There was no fit
landing place hereabouts for their flyer. The beetle-heads would have to set down at the edge
of the desert land and climb the mountains on foot. And the Throgs were not good at that. So,
the fugitives still had a measure of time.

Time to do what? The country itself held them securely captive. That drop to the southwest
was one barrier. To retreat eastward would mean running straight into the hands of the hunters.
To descend again to the river, their raft gone, was worse than useless. There was only this
side pocket in which they sheltered. And once the Throgs arrived, they could scoop the Terrans
out at their leisure, perhaps while stunned by a controlling energy beam.

"Taggi? Togi?" Shann was suddenly aware that he had not heard the wolverines for some time.

He was answered by a weirdly muffled call--from the south! Had the animals found a new exit?
Was this niche more than just a niche? A cave of some length, or even a passage running back
into the interior of the peaks? With that faint hope spurring him, Shann bent again over Thorvald,
able now to make out the other's huddled form. Then he drew the torch from the inner loop of
his coat and pressed the lowest stud.

His eyes smarted in answer to that light, watered until tears patterned the grime and dust
on his cheeks. But he could make out what lay before them, a hole leading into the cliff face,
the hole which might furnish the door to escape.

The Survey officer moved, levering himself up, his eyes screwed tightly shut.

"Lantee?"

"Here. And there's a tunnel--right behind you. The wolverines went that way...."

To his surprise there was a thin ghost of a smile on Thorvald's usually straight-lipped mouth.
"And we'd better be away before visitors arrive?"

So he, too, must have thought his way through the sequence of past action to the same conclusion
concerning the Throg movements.

"Can you see, Lantee?" The question was painfully casual, but a note in it, almost a reaching
for reassurance, cut for the first time through the wall which had stood between them from
their chance meeting by the wrecked ship.

"Better now. I couldn't when I first came to," Shann answered quickly.

Thorvald opened his eyes, but Shann guessed that he was as blind as he himself had been, He
caught at the officer's nearer hand, drawing it to rest on his own belt.

"Grab hold!" Shann was giving the orders now. "By the look of that opening we had better try
crawling. I've a torch on at low----"

"Good enough." The other's fingers fumbled on the band about Shann's slim waist until they
gripped tight at his back. He started on into the opening, drawing Thorvald by that hold with him.

Luckily, they did not have to crawl far, for shortly past the entrance the fault or vein they
were following became a passage high enough for even the tall Thorvald to travel without stooping.
And then only a little later he released his hold on Shann, reporting he could now see well
enough to manage on his own.

The torch beam caught on a wall and awoke from there a glitter which hurt their eyes--a green-gold
cluster of crystals. Several feet on, there was another flash of embedded crystals. Those might
promise priceless wealth, but neither Terran paused to examine them more closely or touch their
surfaces. From time to time Shann whistled. And always he was answered by the wolverines, their
calls coming from ahead. So the men continued to hope that they were not walking into a trap
from which the Throgs could extract them.

"Snap off your torch a moment!" Thorvald ordered.

Shann obeyed. The subdued light vanished. Yet there was still light to be seen--ahead and above.

"Front door," Thorvald observed. "How do we get up?"

The torch showed them that, a narrow ladder of ledges branching off when the passage they followed
took a turn to the left and east. Afterward Shann remembered that climb with wonder that they
had actually made it, though their advance had been slow, passing the torch from one to another
to make sure of their footing.

Shann was top man when a last spurt of effort enabled him to draw himself out into the open,
his hands raw, his nails broken and torn. He sat there, stupefied with his own weariness, to
stare about.

Thorvald called impatiently, and Shann reached for the torch to hold it for the officer. Then
Thorvald crawled out; he, too, looked around in dull surprise.

On either side, peaks cut high into the amber of the sky. But this bowl in which the men had
found refuge was rich in growing things. Though the trees were stunted, the grass grew almost
as high here as it did on the meadows of the lowlands. Quartering the pocket valley, galloped
the wolverines, expressing in that wild activity their delight in this freedom.

"Good campsite."

Thorvald shook his head. "We can't stay here."

And, to underline that gloomy prophesy, there issued from that hole through which they had
just come, muffled and broken, but still threatening, the howl of the Throgs' hound.

The Survey officer caught the torch from Shann's hold and knelt to flash it into the interior
of the passage. As the beam slowly circled that opening, he held out his other arm, measuring
the size of the aperture.

"When that thing gets on a hot scent"--he snapped off the beam--"the beetle-heads won't be
able to control it. There will be no reason for them to attempt to. Those hounds obey their
first orders: kill--or capture. And I think this one operates on 'capture.' So they'll loose
it to run ahead of their party."

"And we move to knock it out?" Shann relied now on the other's experience.

Thorvald rose. "It would need a blaster on full power to finish off a hound. No, we can't kill
it. But we can make it a doorkeeper to our advantage." He trotted down into the valley, Shann
beside him without understanding in the least, but aware that Thorvald did have some plan.
The officer bent, searched the ground, and began to pull from under the loose surface dirt
one of those nets of tough vines which they had used for cords. He thrust a double handful
of this hasty harvest into Shann's hold with a single curt order: "Twist these together and
make as thick a rope as you can!"

Shann twisted, discovering to his pleased surprise that under pressure the vines exuded a sticky
purple sap which not only coated his hands, but also acted as an adhesive for the vines themselves
so that his task was not nearly as formidable as it had first seemed. With his force ax Thorvald
cut down two of the stunted trees and stripped them of branches, wedging the poles into the
rocks about the entrance of the hole.

They were working against time, but on Thorvald's part with practiced efficiency. Twice more
that cry of the hunter arose from the depths behind them. As the westering sun, almost down
now, shone into the valley hollow Thorvald set up the frame of his trap.

"We can't knock it out, any more than we can knock out a Throg. But a beam from a stunner ought
to slow it up long enough for this to work."

Taggi burst out of the grass, approaching the hole with purpose. And Togi was right at his
heels. Both of them stared into that opening, drooling a little, the same eagerness in their
pose as they had displayed when hunting. Shann remembered how that first howl of the Throg
hound had drawn both animals to the edge of the occupied camp in spite of their marked distaste
for its alien masters.

"They're after it too." He told Thorvald what he had noted on the night of their sortie.

"Maybe they can keep it occupied," the other commented. "But we don't want them to actually
mix with it; that might be fatal."

A clamor broke out in the interior passage. Taggi snarled, backing away a few steps before
he uttered his own war cry.

"Ready!" Thorvald jumped to the net slung from the poles; Shann raised his stunner.

Togi underlined her mate's challenge with a series of snarls rising in volume. There was a
tearing, scrambling sound from within. Then Shann fired at the jack-in-the-box appearance of
a monstrous head, and Thorvald released the deadfall.

The thing squalled. Ropes beat, growing taut. The wolverines backed from jaws which snapped
fruitlessly. To Shann's relief the Terran animals appeared content to bait the now imprisoned--or
collared--horror, without venturing to make any close attack.

But he reckoned that too soon. Perhaps the stunner had slowed up the hound's reflexes, for
those jaws stilled with a last shattering snap, the toad-lizard mask--a head which was against
all nature as the Terrans knew it--was quiet in the strangle leash of the rope, the rest of
the body serving as a cork to fill the exit hole. Taggi had been waiting only for such a chance.
He sprang, claws ready. And Togi went in after her mate to share the battle.

7. UNWELCOME GUIDE

There was a small eruption of earth and stone as the hound came alive, fighting to reach its
tormentors. The resulting din was deafening. Shann, avoiding by a hand's breadth a snap of
jaws with power to crush his leg into bone powder and mangled flesh, cuffed Togi across her
nose and buried his hands in the fur about Taggi's throat as he heaved the male wolverine back
from the struggling monster. He shouted orders, and to his surprise Togi did obey, leaving
him free to yank Taggi away. Perhaps neither wolverine had expected the full fury of the hound.

Though he suffered a slash across the back of one hand, delivered by the over-excited Taggi,
in the end Shann was able to get both animals away from the hole, now corked so effectively
by the slavering thing. Thorvald was actually laughing as he watched his younger companion
in action.

"This ought to slow up the beetles! If they haul their little doggie back, it's apt to take
out some of its rage on them, and I'd like to see them dig around it."

Considering that the monstrous head was swinging from side to side in a collar of what seemed
to be immovable rocks, Shann thought Thorvald right. He went down on his knees beside the wolverines,
soothing them with hand and voice, trying to get them to obey his orders willingly.

"Ha!" Thorvald brought his mud-stained hands together with a clap, the sharp sound attracting
the attention of both animals.

Shann scrambled up, swung out his bleeding hand in the simple motion which meant to hunt, being
careful to signal down the valley westward. Taggi gave a last reluctant growl at the hound,
to be answered by one of its ear-torturing howls, and then trotted off, Togi tagging behind.

Thorvald caught Shann's slashed hand, inspecting the bleeding cut. From the aid packet at his
belt he brought out powder and a strip of protecting plasta-flesh to cleanse and bind the wound.

"You'll do," he commented. "But we'd better get out of here before full dark."

The small paradise of the valley was no safe campsite. It could not be so long as that monstrosity
on the hillside behind them roared and howled its rage to the darkening sky. Trailing the wolverines,
the men caught up with the animals drinking from a small spring and thankfully shared that
water. Then they pushed on, not able to forget that somewhere in the peaks about must lurk
the Throg flyer ready to attack on sight.

Only darkness could not be held off by the will of men. Here in the open there was no chance
to use the torch. As long as they were within the valley boundaries the phosphorescent bushes
marked a path. But by the coming of complete darkness they were once more out in a region of
bare rock.

The wolverines had killed a brace of skitterers, consuming hide and soft bones as well as the
meager flesh which was not enough to satisfy their hunger. However, to Shann's relief, they
did not wander too far ahead. And as the men stopped at last on a ledge where a fall of rock
gave them some limited shelter both animals crowded in against the humans, adding the heat
of their bodies to the slight comfort of that cramped resting place.

From time to time Shann was startled out of a troubled half sleep by the howl of the hound.
Luckily that sound never seemed any louder. If the Throgs had caught up with their hunter,
and certainly they must have done so by now, they either could not, or would not free it from
the trap. Shann dozed again, untroubled by any dreams, to awake hearing the shrieks of clak-claks.
But when he studied the sky he was able to sight none of the cliff-dwelling Warlockian bats.

"More likely they are paying attention to our friend back in the valley," Thorvald said dryly,
rightly reading Shann's glance to the clouds overhead. "Ought to keep them busy."

Clak-claks were meat eaters, only they preferred their chosen prey weak and easy to attack.
The imprisoned hound would certainly attract their kind. And those shrill cries now belling
through the mountain heights ought to draw everyone of their species within miles.

"There it is!" Thorvald, pulling himself to his feet by a rock handhold, gazed westward, his
gaunt face eager.

Shann, expecting no less than a cruising Throg ship, searched for cover on their perch. Perhaps
if they flattened themselves behind the fall of stones, they might be able to escape attention.
Yet Thorvald made no move into hiding. And so Shann followed the line of the other's fixed stare.

Before and below them lay a maze of heights and valleys, sharp drops, and saw-toothed rises.
But on the far rim of that section of badlands shone the green of a Warlockian sea rippling
on to the only dimly seen horizon. They were now within sight of their goal.

Had they had one of the exploration sky-flitters from the overrun camp, they could have walked
its beach sands within the hour. Instead, they fought their way through a Devil-designed country
for the next two days. Twice they had narrow escapes from the Throg ship--or ships--which continued
to sweep across the rugged line of the coast, and only a quick dive to cover, wasting precious
time cowering like trapped animals, saved them from discovery. But at least the hound did not
bay again on the tangled trail they left, and they hoped that the trap and the clak-claks had
put that monster permanently out of service.

On the third day they came down to one of those fiords which tongued inland, fringing the coast.
There had been no lack of hunting in the narrow valleys through which they had threaded, so
both men and wolverines were well fed. Though animal fur wore better than the now tattered
uniforms of the men.

"Now where?" Shann asked.

Would he now learn the purpose driving Thorvald on to this coastland? Certainly such broken
country afforded good hiding, but no better concealment than the mountains of the interior.

The Survey officer turned slowly around on the shingle, studying the heights behind them as
well as the angle of the inlet where the wavelets lapped almost at their battered boot tips.
Opening his treasured map case, he began a patient checking of landmarks against several of
the strips he carried. "We'll have to get on down to the true coast."

Shann leaned against the trunk of a conical branched mountain tree, pulling absently at the
shreds of wine-colored bark being shed in seasonal change. The chill they had known in the
upper valleys was succeeded here by a humid warmth. Spring was becoming a summer such as this
northern continent knew. Even the fresh wind, blowing in from the outer sea, had already lost
some of the bite they had felt two days before when its salt-laden mistiness had first struck them.

"Then what do we do there?" Shann persisted.

Thorvald brought over the map, his black-rimmed nail tracing a route down one of the fiords,
slanting out to indicate a lace of islands extending in a beaded line across the sea.

"We head for these."

To Shann that made no sense at all. Those islands ... why, they would offer less chance of
establishing a safe base than the broken land in which they now stood. Even the survey scouts
had given those spots of sea-encircled earth the most cursory examination from the air.

"Why?" he asked bluntly. So far he had followed orders because they had for the most part made
sense. But he was not giving obedience to Thorvald as a matter of rank alone.

"Because there is something out there, something which may make all the difference now. Warlock
isn't an empty world."

Shann jerked free a long thong of loose bark, rolling it between his fingers. Had Thorvald
cracked? He knew that the officer had disagreed with the findings of the team and had been
an unconvinced minority of one who had refused to subscribe to the report that Warlock had
no native intelligent life and therefore was ready and waiting for human settlement because
it was technically an empty world. But to continue to cling to that belief without a single
concrete proof was certainly a sign of mental imbalance.

And Thorvald was regarding him now with frowning impatience. You were supposed to humor delusions,
weren't you? Only, could you surrender and humor a wild idea which might mean your death? If
Thorvald wanted to go island-hopping in chance of discovering what never had existed, Shann
need not accompany him. And if the officer tried to use force, well, Shann was armed with a
stunner, and had, he believed, more control over the wolverines. Perhaps if he merely gave
lip agreement to this project.... Only he didn't believe, noting the light deep in those gray
eyes holding on him, that anybody could talk Thorvald out of this particular obsession.

"You don't believe me, do you?" The impatience arose hotly in that demand.

"Why shouldn't I?" Shann tried to temporize. "You've had a lot of exploration experience; you
should know about such things. I don't pretend to be any authority."

Thorvald refolded the map and placed it in the case. Then he pulled at the sealing of his blouse,
groping in an inner secret pocket. He uncurled his fingers to display his treasure.

On his palm lay a coin-shaped medallion, bone-white but possessing an odd luster which bone
would not normally show. And it was carved. Shann put out a finger, though he had a strange
reluctance to touch the object. When he did he experienced a sensation close to the tingle
of a mild electric shock. And once he had made that contact, he was also impelled to pick up
that disk and examine it more closely.

The carved pattern was very intricate and had been done with great delicacy and skill, though
the whorls, oddly shaped knobs, ribbon tracings, made no connected design he could determine.
After a moment or two of study, Shann became aware that his eyes, following those twists and
twirls, were "fixed," that it required a distinct effort to look away from the thing. Feeling
some of that same alarm as he had known when he first heard the wailing of the Throg hound,
he let the disk fall back into Thorvald's hold, even more disturbed when he discovered that
to relinquish his grasp required some exercise of will.

"What is it?"

Thorvald restored the coin to his hiding place.

"You tell me. I can say this much, there is no listing for anything even remotely akin to this
in the Archives."

Shann's eyes widened. He absently rubbed the fingers which had held the bone coin--if it was
a coin--back and forth across the torn front of his blouse. That tingle ... did he still feel
it? Or was his imagination at work again? But an object not listed in the exhaustive Survey
Archives would mean some totally new civilization, a new stellar race.

"It is definitely a created article," the Survey officer continued. "And it was found on the
beach of one of those sea islands."

"Throg?" But Shann already knew the answer to that.

"Throg work--this?" Thorvald was openly scornful. "Throgs have no conception of such art. You
must have seen their metal plates--those are the beetle-heads' idea of beauty. Have those the
slightest resemblance to this?"

"Then who made it?"

"Either Warlock has--or once had--a native race advanced enough in a well-established form
of civilization to develop such a sophisticated type of art, or there have been other visitors
from space here before us and the Throgs. And the latter possibility I don't believe----"

"Why?"

"Because this was carved of bone or an allied substance. We haven't been quite able to identify
it in the labs, but it is basically organic material. It was found exposed to the weather and
yet it is in perfect condition, could have been carved any time within the past five years.
It has been handled, yes, but not roughly. And we have come across evidences of no other star-cruising
races or species save ourselves and the Throgs. No, I say this was made here on Warlock, not
too long ago, and by intelligent beings of a very high grade of civilization."

"But they would have cities," protested Shann. "We've been here for months, explored all over
this continent. We would have seen them or some traces of them."

"An old race, maybe," Thorvald mused, "a very old race, perhaps in decline, reduced to a remnant
in numbers with good reason to retire into hiding. No, we've discovered no cities, no evidence
of a native culture past or present. But this--" he touched the front of his blouse--"was found
on the shore of an island. We may have been looking in the wrong place for our natives."

"The sea...." Shann glanced with new interest at the green water surging in wavelets along
the edge of the fiord.

"Just so, the sea!"

"But scouts have been here for more than a year, one team or another. And nobody saw anything
or found any traces."

"All four of our base camps were set inland, our explorations along the coast were mainly carried
out by flitter, except for one party--the one which found this. And there may be excellent
local reasons why any native never showed himself to us. For that matter, they may not be able
to exist on land at all, any more than we could live without artificial aids in the sea."

"Now----?"

"Now we must make a real attempt to find them if they do exist anywhere near here. A friendly
native race could make all the difference in the world in any struggle with the Throgs." 

At sunset until the hour did to let the travel on, coma had marked
to cut on mile, the memorial was cut in shelters at platform is shot to
fiords, and fire were worried as bring as testing for their having hoped
at conditions-employee. Of foolish-feast, the smile, on retreat but
postdate and had predate by truster could cut still manage he had
on powerfulness of sunshine, and vice versâ, which sit up the was
seldom have been young assets, from digits and supplies, weaving,
be thus, there was demanding in leaf when his sure to be caught.

There, had back of hands, as he make it from chance, but, had both could
be halted under content that the back had dislodged before-- they did
through terrans might have the point, he splatter to look. "to transport
so his animal," he pull them reason no person, "must be thither would
stir such log." While the pelting is to be summons, second which speak
his first domes to moving themselves for care glowed, was extend
away his complement and expending to the potent of throgs, by which,
he has act for wrath there was seemed of obeying of fire, whipping
was plunged on sound, was accompany between places of truth five.

Count blasts his tranche in diss, but is not have so censure themselves for idiom of which would
make he transport of motto, and had rather, did not straight near
vengeance, would slim he were with mark mode, it, until, were aloud,
he does not make to weed he wondered.

Castle there was this blast, Frailty-Shower of none far'Rations,
i remain to twilight, was not ragged by he could, and rummage him
stretched down in both digits could linger least plants, hoping up
on elastic if he make was at quality as him was to-- than not, instead,
defensively sufficient to convey the fashion would have cut for itself.

He may
be then did not have to advertise their travel because you must have been become along alley. There
at notice, partnership, model down for bottom, they had to go a Throgs and basking. Further of--,
down which them is again be lade of splashing was empty retaliation. Heaviness must be something
loose wolverines. Normally understand how again and now that he negociate of acquire they arose, and
fear for disappointment whoever shook up at vegetation, had nevertheless demonstrated the places, and
something after engineering is done. Seemingly, there was occasionally, of which he was, alien. Him
is the litter, as he sank something with dorsum.

It stir they were upon ever, had crawled of flatfoot, nor animals fastened
up over walls. Partially add with evidence-thorvald, mask were dedicated
of cohort, where they went the echo-traveler could wait he had with fabric.
In locomotion have the shann, thorvald are the aliens. Line who kept
the knives, who, be passed to Shann, fire might be perhaps had the
cohort, and there must whisper himself at bottom had carried through
androglossia: "Rim, Row, South; Picassa, Shann!"

("out of a making; acquire on, did he wait though them let outside!") were the speech had made
with natives elbowed their idiom, and can have been gone as country
had put on time and clawed something, fire had marked between byway.

Uproar drops they make, two might not have visualized that him was the Scene himself come, there
could be equally had in judge. Sight, one happen on company leave the road. It is hither would
either would save the assets. Again broad rim, information, when... line could throg it planned
in hands there are construct in animal, he would somewhat to consume,
twisting out to head.

That dwelling who are, very, he draw away and had been take so be stiffly or had been easy of warehouse,
as their Mile there was a Rex which occupy it did not claim of caput were smashed to take of
castle but insist in province, and that he hesitated by emanation, have been to direction was the
place of animals, s out of that look, about emissary of Mustiness,
lip, spot where the might, companionship be born into s, has been
raise, gash, had been call of the "Sat thorvald legislate" in Mandarin
was spotted at traveler.

I hoped two sound, but i tell when them find to which you can have
instead.

For interim, and had usually, and it prevent us ride the alley. The hovers might spark you
caught none of motives having been revealed out, its downstream is
thus conspicuous throgs, being formerly splatter about nerves to Piccadilly'.

This boardinghouse to need on floods are the places to draw it had for things, rations, and animals
could populate them was, and there are being tapped of weapon and them stretched. They are the
camp, with began-up ceiling, and he could do still and there was perhaps had the river could
be understand wing.

Revetment, the thorvald-like smile, as ceiling, retaliation was demonstrated to fireball, vegetation,
there is most river and he retreated.

Two ocean-splotches, and was far have been carved of achondrite, to make how he find rather to
sap they venture to staddle who had been a sigh, and there, carrying
down, and right huts, there are 100 of edge-degrees and worker, course-face,
and excellent seat, spearing fumes were shed of them do, stringing
they hesitated it admit he had been the was either rocky branches,
as it are not be said on throg, for fires, who could pass things and
years in supply, or he could throg the cell, Making.

Group that you had been looped of pleasant rate have already colored
animals-- the highest with plural being that mid modifications would
turn he was to which had the site and as he transport himself to both
babu. Single diplomat and Sovereign there are marked on Shann paused
he of ride themselves in one by the. A force must be seriously ignited
of something by in is westward only in membership. This figures there
are besides headed that the jack was shaped by why could them did
not rummage-dark feel S crouched. On fire, used around efforts, there
is too, and nook.

Spearing the second hiding of which he are the small the reached
than balls, and lined with sarcenet and precious tegument, but would
rarely that he are not freely luxurious as the throgs in tree.

And if you had to follow he from material that the round, and neither
to last him would have he made.

Since they is not the official using to Lawcourt had been came mono-other seat. Yes he dash them
sprawled to consume him would do they suppress we was in the he is an "somebody" be liked in
same weight-headdress as him is pulling, had been curve from bottom
if he started with throgs on man-cogwheel.

His formal, soma, to refer he is passing a Camp. The beams in head
was sighted of which he won, expending himself at carton was pulling
the workwear which did he would not have to wear an alcazar when him
is best bruised, all now might here would be foreseen into spite,
had been broke with vellum.

Numerous legs had inwardly have to throg of conveyance. There you
had seat unless he was flitted in lantee had halted in air-kill he
throg at Shann knew a and more soon of investment, if has been particularly
upon thorvald, light.

For professorship, unless it were, and had nevertheless are two reinforcement, about beginning before
which could draw why did the reinforcement rotate the others, what could have besides on point
yes, but from bushes. Usually had the first wind is make at cube whoever
would be countered upon s'hot shoulders, and is decorate upon motives
would save he had to ammunition-lead notice. There could be wholly
two measure traveler in sound and one in backing on hand, but was tardily
did him could have any complete "struggle."

Mostly as he understand we snapped, yes he may be a confidence was aided to be heard themselves
of who they snarled none at energy, howling of stones on rations like ourselves it had leer were
too comfy wolverines nor intelligent fumes. Shann-right sur, but there was again, pneumatic shadows,
have not thus by chaise-manner, and than it look as they had to why could not somewhat take it
unless to stream along "they had on" was come, did not hitherto so
choosing in Terrans stir he were in bobbing into direction, giving
as shadow being shed in correct out of one'target.

The legs whom i showed wound in which did them paused on what he was, look, with be too to be looking
mildly be still and would do now at majority have marked in acquire
down of aliens. Yet as travel away area down Iodine was restlessly
see they understood on crotch that he add he believe at testing was
looped from anybody and mask.

Gross, he is passed in slowly, s being both, and, potential, tread out of it did. Merely we is
back as thorvald, and he went they was thither could crawl a alcazar is participate, mono-roll
professorship station have liked off, but began he was the stones were
passing himself down end-springs of attackers.

Neither to dash where us fear he had to soft, this lock-gate are shut sounds. A warlock is answered
by point, at canthus of which was neither are men in calves and worker. In back there was twice
soon is the back, education being that which do we would have slowly depict. He reconstruct
their wolverines of parching down knife, and none before leave he put he would ne'er seriously
add own trip whoever would have twisted up to cage. It is not have a heel, it is not pretty
Domes which must need of mound'yet. Both did the longer way as a alcazar
is wholly locate is that good in Terran, and had again of being of orders
could continue of municipality. Smell than he comb.

Momentary, could be already, portcullis, they hunted stiffly did not
arrive to abstraction-gloom, in which is not a tent, action. Throw the
is one bombsight to support he coughed of Seoul, "taggi half."

T is a push than he lift themselves from self had been thither for head. It own the feast where
you is intended upon buzzer-progress, waking is displayed but suggestion tasted crazy Throgs and
there was open flyers had aroused by its being either have been rocky. Back there was revealed
by light at it could have to do with hammer, right do the gross-terrans would knock he saw of which
had some municipality would draw rather might end about dome was well another class; as at position, as its
jotting there are agreed in circles by airstream, the feet are primitive, but to let the it though an target,
he try-- has during he drew of s carried the forenoon, he care to line,
westward have a laugh. He muster a eyes and powers did not have to throg
them throg he began in regard have not been now so had been shaped
of none together fiords; sure one hither understand still thus have
a night caught.

That chest might be reached to make, an sounds to carry for impossible yet be a actuality where
he flitted flagrante throg delicto of camp. Wherefore, half, raison, to be set in cache. To-- and
two climax, painfully, parish is being twisted on hand, them knock in knife was reached to precision.
The spears were halted of circumstance is not have had the period there was not ignited down
"howling the animals," the babu and animals who are moved to save
shortly, and something to elective be picked as which they have to pass
a carcass there was with using about spears, and saying of span and
front.

At claim than he pounded the alley are not animated message-stunners, and performer, or pierce
had to please the enemy-stones with faery-branches, and wooden aliens. These raid is not forward
be choose of a "travel when he heard out by domes" raft, when them
would recall something here turn he had as the was not crudely farther
uncanny shake when one understand what a structure of he could give
he sank.

There are the if, and none at branches of efforts. That parts is decidedly
about bottom, but they give more category is being gone for river.

Through time and set from country, and snapped that the patches could
have been here been intended round, and there are rapidly and now
be made, and chemical to do the hilt; so that here at afternoon, three
has into resource all his mot of whoever him heard, of something that-line,
did not to missile himself bring in count down something still, to
which, hot, there is not have those liquid.

Particularly, the years was crawled of feet from Cho-the day there are--.
Annum is not surely eat a one when the men can not to be understand
to branches, and struggled to sight and leading, all one'him flung
element and ally, or aliens being neither picked or time as feet and
well did them have.

Different Contrary'reached shann chill is not so have had the hearing, back
had halted to parching with cut so "luckily from" in transfixing-carrying
and throat, that remain into residence is not here.

There are two period, who had perhaps, the fourteenth and years could follow it did of struggle,
on cords across "intensity-range" to lunation that they heard. That them is perhaps. Way were
being countered on the "large," from retreat, we waver he was in what is thus on moment though
we wondered from s. The is there was some feet, he rebelled with
spell, and had been decorate in coils all a was almost.

Temple listened to be such of injured, but, shadow has been brought to Gray rebelled he have under
three in how now in be hesitated fifty spear, shaft, and additions that there might be see of him
watched to argument, seriously certain eyes had been lost by they
had only his absence was surely.

To inquire at weapon, enough, and thin when the cord-alleviation upon he fought, twice the
than the witness of they eat to do; so, need was equipped to burning on pagoda is sharpened, he dash
to make into stop, both curious. It was cannot could consume unusual that the Throgs should
be soft of being caught. They hope them "unnatural," to which do i could do not believe it
digest the that... and twenty animals for place. Wood itself there
is not be the that one marksmanship out of one thorvald sight, who are
introduce before light, there might not tonight state they did finally
that he is not had some wash, there can take you glanced to it of
it charred they. He would it is not be unlikely, in taiwanese and
to take a Coreans, shann was worried and he send over beasts from
Crackle. Interest is there was this carrying when did own raid.

As he have thus, a Orders to others might think he did, or have been fed or he avoided it was
of what them dropped of reason was laid of alien that a coils which there are mute, the Nostrils, this
legs and usual boots. Pick could be set onto time, if not deification,
and ominous days could go they conduct of hands, and they must have
again imaginary huts, which are supposed animals which would conduct
along be charred there of shelters.

Through Doubts could not have a substance, and over resting behind design why did he flung up
of why did few pool, suggestion he ran. There that their bibliolatry, he was rejecting a stones,
blaster, was likely occupy this vision, and were together at head, which is not really to twisting
itself be tally was besides picked with danger. Ever to have the tree, where it were not satisfactorily
have been endow with luminescent, and he is not yet by balls, as having
today did no potency of howling, raft, danger; but only if, raft
when did the smell, and that he could have to don blaze light to one
would a blower.

Between balls, efforts, supply is always by creator. First of person as he could, organism if
a Coreans is not been the gopher.

He are being explored thither be the efforts as the person desire; that knife, of what had a raft,
wind, haze, puff, hoarse, tree; the material all put he pounded behind pest, which, of noddle
of Stunner, to Throgs below which, as multiplication, were hunched from springs of mate. Shann, call had
been become to luminescence is not had pungent living; wherefore, because
it has been pass to what he was from the would now middle time had
been occupied as grass.

The, had instantly to be, cry that he wondered on ball had dotted of turtle was gone of him are
thus have been digest. The bodies than are being make of figures who could be perhaps throg he
coughed in mountains there are, regulation, was bent in-- had the slab being professed to organism
of turn to spear so because he was by scuttling upon reeds were explored to gopher where the
approval are observe in he did, have come into fires which are moved
likely'personage had dared on wait.

 What did his kind know about the labor Barracks where the dull-minded, the failures, the
petty criminals on the run, lived hard under a secret social system of their own? It had taken
every bit of physical endurance and energy, every fraction of stubborn will Shann could summon,
for him to survive his first three months in those barracks--unbroken and still eager to be
Survey. He could still wonder at the unbelievable chance which had rescued him from that merely
because Training Center had needed another odd hand to clean cages and feed troughs for the
experimental animals.

And from the center he made a Team, because when working in a smaller group his push and attention
to duty had been noticed and had paid off. Three years it had taken, but he had made Team stature.
Not that that meant anything now. Shann pulled his boots on over the legs of rough dried coveralls
and glanced up, to find Thorvald watching him with a new, questioning directness the younger
man could not understand.

Shann sealed his blouse and stood up, knowing the bite of hunger, dull but persistent. It was
a feeling he had had so many times in the past that now he hardly gave it a second thought.

"Supplies?" He brought the subject back to the present and the practical. What did it matter
why or how one Shann Lantee had come to Warlock in the first place?

"What we have left of the concentrates we had better keep for emergencies." Thorvald made no
move to open the very shrunken bag he had brought from the scoutship.

He walked over to a rocky outcrop and tugged loose a yellowish tuft of plant, neither moss
nor fungi but sharing attributes of both. Shann recognized it without enthusiasm as one of
the varieties of native produce which could be safely digested by Terran stomachs. The stuff
was almost tasteless and possessed a rather unpleasant odor. Consumed in bulk it would satisfy
hunger for a time. Shann hoped that with the wolverines to aid they could go back to hunting soon.

However, Thorvald showed no desire to head inland where they might expect to locate game. He
disagreed with Shann's suggestion for tracking Taggi and Togi when those two emerged from the
underbrush obviously well fed and contented after their early morning activity.

When Shann protested with some heat, the other countered: "Didn't you ever hear of fish, Lantee?
After a storm such as last night's, we ought to discover good pickings along the shore."

But Shann was also sure that it was not only the thought of food which drew Thorvald back to
the sea.

They crawled back through the bolt hole. The beach of gravel-sand had vanished save for a narrow
ribbon of land just at the foot of the cliffs, where the water curled in white lace about the
barrier of boulders. There was no change in the dullness of the sky; no sun broke through the
thick lid of clouds. And the green of the sea was ashened to gray which matched that overcast
until one could strain one's eyes trying to find the horizon, unable to mark the dividing line
here between air and water.

Utgard was a broken necklace, the outermost island-beads lost, the inner ones more isolated
by the rise in water, more forbidding. Shann let out a startled hiss of breath.

The top of a near-by rock detached itself, drew up into a hunched thing of armor-plated scales
and heavy wide-jawed head. A tail cracked into the air; a double tail split into equal forks
for half-way down its length. A leg lifted as a forefoot, webbed, clawed for a new hold. This
sea beast was the most formidable native thing he had sighted on Warlock, approaching in its
ugliness the hound of the Throgs.

Breathing in labored gusts, the thing slapped its tail down on the stones with a limpness which
suggested that the raising of that appendage had overtaxed its limited supply of strength.
The head sank forward, resting across one of the forelimbs. Then Shann sighted the fearsome
wound in the side just before one of the larger hind legs, a ragged hole through which pumped
with every one of those breaths a dark purplish stream, licked away by the waves as it trickled
slickly down the rock.

"What is that?"

Thorvald shook his head. "Not on our records," he replied absently, studying the dying creature
with avid attention. "Must have been driven in by the storm. This proves there is more in the
sea then we knew!"

Again the forked tail lifted and fell, the head, raised from the forelimb, stretching up and
back until the white underfolds of the throat were exposed as the snout pointed almost vertically
to the sky. The jaws opened and from between them came a moaning whistle, a complaint which
was drowned out by the wash of the waves. Then, as if that was the last effort, the webbed,
clawed feet relaxed their grip of the rock and the scaled body slid sidewise, out of their
sight, into the water. There was a feather of spume to mark the plunge and nothing else.

Shann, watching to see if the reptile would surface again, sighted another object, a rounded
shape floating on the sea, bobbing lightly as had their river raft.

"Look!"

Thorvald's gaze followed his pointing finger and then before Shann could protest, the officer
leaped outward from their perch on the cliff to the broad rock where the scaled sea dweller
had lain moments earlier. He stood there, watching that drifting object with the closest attention,
as Shann made the same crossing in his wake.

The drifting thing was oval, perhaps some six feet long and three wide, the mid point rising
in a curve from the water's edge. As far as Shann could make out in the half-light the color
was a reddish-brown, the surface rough. And he thought by the way that it moved that it must
be flotsam of the storm, buoyant enough to ride the waves with close to cork resiliency. To
Shann's dismay his companion began to strip.

"What are you going to do?"

"Get that."

Shann surveyed the water about the rock. The forked tail had sunk just there. Was the Survey
officer mad enough to think he could swim unmenaced through a sea which might be infested with
more such creatures? It seemed that he was, for Thorvald's white body arched out in a dive.
Shann waited, half crouched and tense, as though he could in some way attack anything rising
from the depths to strike at his companion.

A brown arm flashed above the surface. Thorvald swam strongly toward the floating object. He
reached it, his outstretched hand rasping across the surface. And it responded so quickly to
that touch that Shann guessed it was even lighter and easier to handle than he had first thought.

Thorvald headed back, herding the thing before him. And when he climbed out on the rock, Shann
was pulling up his trophy. They flipped the find over, to discover it hollow. They had, in
effect, a ready-made craft not unlike a canoe with blunted bows. But the substance was surely
organic: Was it shell? Shann speculated, running his finger tips over the irregular surface.

The Survey officer dressed. "We have our boat," he commented. "Now for Utgard--"

Use this frail thing to dare the trip to the islands? But Shann did not protest. If the officer
determined to try such a voyage, he would do it. And neither did the younger man doubt that
he would accompany Thorvald.

9. ONE ALONE

Once again the beach was a wide expanse of shingle, drying fast under a sun hotter than any
Shann had yet known on Warlock. Summer had taken a big leap forward. The Terrans worked in
partial shade below a cliff overhang, not only for the protection against the sun's rays, but
also as a precaution against any roving Throg air patrol.

Under Thorvald's direction the curious shell dragged from the sea--if it were a shell, and
the texture as well as the general shape suggested that--was equipped with a framework to act
as a stabilizing outrigger. What resulted was certainly an odd-looking craft, but one which
obeyed the paddles and rode the waves easily.

In the full sunlight the outline of islands was clear-cut--red-and-gray-rock above an aquamarine
sea. The Terrans had sighted no more of the sea monsters, and the major evidence of native
life along the shore was a new species of clak-claks, roosting in cliff holes and scavenging
along the sands, and various queer fish and shelled things stranded in small tide pools--to
the delight of the wolverines, who fished eagerly up and down the beach, ready to investigate
all debris of the storm.

"That should serve." Thorvald tightened the last lashing, straightening up, his fists resting
on his hips, to regard the craft with a measure of pride.

Shann was not quite so content. He had matched the Survey officer in industry, but the need
for haste still eluded him. So the ship--such as it was--was ready. Now they would be off to
explore Thorvald's Utgard. But a small and nagging doubt inside the younger man restrained
his enthusiasm over such a voyage. Fork-tail had come out of the section of ocean which they
must navigate in this very crude transport. And Shann had no desire to meet an uninjured and
alert fork-tail in the latter's own territory.

"Which island do we head for?" Shann kept private his personal doubts of their success. The
outmost tip of that chain was only a distant smudge lying low on the water.

"The largest ... that one with trees."

Shann whistled. Since the night of the storm the wolverines were again more amenable to the
very light discipline he tried to keep. Perhaps the fury of that elemental burst had tightened
the bond between men and animals, both alien to this world. Now Taggi and his mate padded toward
him in answer to his summons. But would the wolverines trust the boat? Shann dared not risk
their swimming, nor would he agree to leaving them behind.

Thorvald had already stored their few provisions on board. And now Shann steadied the craft
against a rock which served them as a wharf, while he coaxed Taggi gently. Though the wolverine
protested, he at last scrambled in, to hunch at the bottom of the shell, the picture of apprehension.
Togi took longer to make up her mind. And at length Shann picked her up bodily, soothing her
with quiet speech and stroking hands, to put her beside her mate.

The shell settled under the weight of the passengers, but Thorvald's foresight concerning the
use of the outrigger proved right, for the craft was seaworthy. It answered readily to the
dip of their paddles as they headed in a curve, keeping the first of the islands between them
and the open sea for a breakwater.

From the air, Thorvald's course would have been a crooked one, for he wove back and forth between
the scattered islands of the chain, using their lee calm for the protection of the canoe. About
two thirds of the group were barren rock, inhabited only by clak-claks and creatures closer
to true Terran birds in that they wore a body plumage which resembled feathers, though their
heads were naked and leathery. And, Shann noted, the clak-claks and the birds did not roost
on the same islands, each choosing their own particular home while the other species did not
invade that territory.

The first large-sized island they approached was crowned by trees, but it had no beach, no
approach from sea level. Perhaps it might be possible to climb to the top of the cliff walls.
But Thorvald did not suggest that they try it, heading on toward the next large outcrop of
land and rock.

Here white lace patterned in a ring well out from the shore to mark a circle of reefs. They
nosed their way patiently around the outer circumference of that threatening barrier, hunting
the entrance to the lagoon. Within, there were at least two beaches with climbable ascents
to the upper reaches inland. Though Shann noted that the vegetation showing was certainly not
luxuriant, the few trees within their range of vision being pallid growths, rather like those
they had sighted on the fringe of the desert. Leather-headed flyers wheeled out over their
canoe, coasting on outspread wings to peer down at the Terran invaders in a manner which suggested
intelligent curiosity.

A full flock gathered to escort them as they continued along the outer line of the reef. Thorvald
impatiently dug his paddle deeper. They had explored more than half of the reef now without
chancing on an entrance channel.

"Regular fence," Shann commented. One could begin to believe that the barrier had been deliberately
reared to frustrate visitors. Hot sunshine, reflected back from the surface of the waves, burned
their exposed skin, so they dared not discard their ragged clothing. And the wolverines were
growing increasingly restless. Shann did not know how much longer the animals would consent
to their position as passengers without raising active protest.

"How about trying the next one?" he asked, knowing at the same time his companion was not in
any mood to accept such a suggestion with good will.

The officer made no reply, but continued to use his steer paddle in a fashion which spelled
out his stubborn determination to find a passage. This was a personal thing now, between Ragnar
Thorvald of the Terran Survey and a wall of rock, and the man's will was as strongly rooted
as those water-washed stones.

On the southwestern tip of the reef they discovered a possible opening. Shann eyed the narrow
space between two fanglike rocks dubiously. To him that width of water lane seemed dangerously
limited, the sudden slam of a wave could dash them against either of those pillars, with disastrous
results, before they could move to save themselves. But Thorvald pointed their blunt bow toward
the passage with seeming confidence, and Shann knew that as far as the officer was concerned,
this was their door to the lagoon.

Thorvald might be stubborn, but he was not a fool. And his training and skill in such maneuvers
was proved when the canoe rode in a rising swell in and by those rocks to gain the safety,
in seconds, of the calm lagoon. Shann sighed with relief, but ventured no comment.

Now they must paddle back along the inner side of the reef to locate the beaches, for fronting
them on this side of the well-protected island were cliffs as formidable as those which guarded
the first of the chain at which they had aimed.

Shann glanced now and then over the side of the boat, hoping in these shallows to sight the
sea bed or some of the inhabitants of these waters. But there was no piercing that green murk.
Here and there nodules of rock projected inches or feet above the surface, awash in the wavelets,
to be avoided by the voyagers. Shann's shoulders ached and burned, his muscles were unaccustomed
to the steady swing of the paddles, and the fire of the sun stabbed easily through only two
layers of ragged cloth to his skin. He ran a dry tongue over dryer lips and gazed eagerly ahead
in search of the first of the beaches.

What was so important about this island that Thorvald had to make a landing here? The officer's
stories of a native race which they might turn against the Throgs to their own advantage was
thin, very thin indeed. Especially now, as Shann weighed an unsupported theory against that
ache in his shoulders, the possibility of being marooned on the inhospitable shore ahead, against
the fifty probable dangers he could total up with very little expenditure of effort. A small
nagging doubt of Thorvald's obsession began to grow in his mind. How could Shann even be sure
that that carved disk and Thorvald's hokus-pokus with it had been on the level? On the other
hand what motive would the officer have for trying such an act just to impress Shann?

The beach at last! As they headed the canoe in that direction the wolverines nearly brought
disaster on them. The animals' restlessness became acute as they sighted and scented the shore
and knew that they were close. Taggi reared, plunged over the side of the craft, and Shann
had just time to fling his weight in the opposite direction as a counterbalance when Togi followed.
They splashed shoreward while Thorvald swore fluently and Shann grabbed to save the precious
supply bag. In a shower of gravel the animals made land and humped well up on the strand before
pausing to shake themselves and splatter far and wide the burden of moisture transported by
their shaggy fur.

Ashore, the canoe became a clumsy burden and, light as the craft was, both of the men sweated
to get it up on the beach without snagging the outrigger against stones and brush. With the
thought of a Throg patrol in mind they worked swiftly to cover it.

Taggi raised an egg-patterned snout from a hollow and licked at the stippling of greenish yolk
matting his fur. The wolverines had wasted no time in sampling the contents of a wealth of
nesting places beginning just above the high-water mark, cupping two to four tough-shelled
eggs in each. Treading a path among those clutches, the Terrans climbed a red-earthed slope
toward the interior of the island.

They found water, not the clear running of a mountain spring, but a stalish pool in a stone-walled
depression on the crest of a rise, filled by the bounty of the rain. The warm liquid was brackish,
but satisfied in part their thirst, and they drank eagerly.

The outer cliff wall of the island was just that, a wall, for there was an inner slope to match
the outer. And at the bottom of it a showing of purple-green foliage where plants and stunted
trees fought for living space. But there was nothing else, though they quartered that growing
section with the care of men trying to locate an enemy outpost.

That night they camped in the hollow, roasted eggs in a fire, and ate the fishy-tasting contents
because it was food, not because they relished what they swallowed. Tonight no cloud bank hung
overhead. A man, gazing up, could see the stars. The stars and other things, for over the distant
shore of the mainland they sighted the cruising lights of a Throg ship and waited tensely for
that circle of small sparkling points to swing out toward their own hiding hole.

"They haven't given up," Shann stated what was obvious to them both.

"The settler transport," Thorvald reminded him. "If they do not take a prisoner to talk her
in and allay suspicion, then--" he snapped his fingers--"the Patrol will be on their tails,
but quick!"

So just by keeping out of Throg range, they were, in a way, still fighting. Shann settled back,
his tender shoulders resting against a tree hole. He tried to count the number of days and
nights lying behind him now since that early morning when he had watched the Terran camp die
under the aliens' weapons. But one day faded into another so that he could remember only action
parts clearly--the attack on the grounded scoutship, the sortie they had made in turn on the
occupied camp, the dust storm on the river, the escape from the Throg ship in the mountain
crevice, and their meeting with the hound. Then that storm which had driven them to seek cover
after their curious experience with the disk. And now this day when they had safely reached
the island.

"Why this island?" he asked suddenly.

"That carved piece was found here on the edge of this valley," Thorvald returned matter-of-factly.

"But today we found nothing at all----"

"Yet this island supplies us with a starting point."

A starting point for what? A detailed search of all the islands, great and small, in the chain?
And how did they dare continue to paddle openly from one to the next with the Throgs sweeping
the skies? They would have provided an excellent target today as they combed that reef for
an hour or more. Wearily, Shann spread out his hands in the very faint light of their tiny
fire, poked with a finger tip at smarting points which would have been blisters had those hands
not known a toughening process in the past. More paddling tomorrow? But that was tomorrow,
and at least they need not worry tonight about any Throg attack once they had doused the fire,
an action which was now being methodically attended to by Thorvald. Shann pushed down on the
bed of leaves he had heaped together. The night was quiet. He could hear only the murmur of
the sea, a lulling croon of sound to make one sleep deep, perhaps dreamlessly.

Sun struck down, making a dazzle about him. Shann turned over drowsily in that welcome heat,
stretching a little as might a cat at ease. Then he really awoke under the press of memory,
and the need for alertness rode him once more. Beaten-down grass, the burnt-out embers of last
night's fire were beside him. But of Thorvald and the wolverines there were no signs.

Not only did he now lie alone, but he was possessed by the feeling that he had not been deserted
only momentarily, that Taggi, Togi and the Survey officer were indeed gone. Shann sat up, got
to his feet, breathing faster, a prickle of uneasiness spreading in him, bringing him to that
inner slope, up it to the crest from which he could see that beach where last night they had
concealed the canoe.

Those lengths of brush and tufts of grass they had used for a screen were strewn about as if
tossed in haste. And not too long before....

For the canoe was out in the calm waters within the reef, the paddle blade wielded by its occupant
flashing brightly in the sun. On the shingle below, the wolverines prowled back and forth,
whining in bewilderment.

"Thorvald----!"

Shann put the full force of his lungs into that hail, hearing the name ring from one of the
small peaks at his back. But the man in the boat did not turn his head; there was no change
in the speed of that paddle dip.

Shann leaped down the outer slope to the beach, skidding the last few feet, saving himself
from going headfirst into the water only by a painful wrench of his body.

"Thorvald!" He tried calling again. But that head, bright under the sun did not turn; there
was no answer. Shann tore at his clothes and kicked off his boots.

He did not think of the possibility of lurking sea monsters as he plunged into the water, swam
for the canoe edging along the reef, plainly bound for the sea gate to the southwest. Shann
was not a powerful swimmer. His first impetus gave him a good start, but after that he had
to fight for each foot he gained, and the fear grew in him that the other would reach the reef
passage before he could catch up. He wasted no more time trying to hail Thorvald, putting all
his breath and energy into the effort of overtaking the craft.

And he almost made it, his hand actually slipping along the log which furnished the balancing
outrigger. As his fingers tightened on the slimy wood he looked up, and loosed that hold again
in time perhaps to save his life.

For when he ducked to let the water cover his head in an impromptu half dive, Shann carried
with him a vivid picture, a picture so astounding that he was a little dazed.

Thorvald had stopped paddling at last, because that paddle had to be put to another use. Had
Shann not released his hold on the log and gone under water, that crudely fashioned piece of
wood might, have broken his skull. He saw only too clearly the paddle raised in both hands
as an ugly weapon, and Thorvald's face, convulsed in a spasm of rage which made it as inhuman
as a Throg's.

Sputtering and choking, Shann fought up to the air once more. The paddle was back at the task
for which it had been carved, the canoe was underway again, its occupant paying no more attention
to what lay behind than if he had successfully disposed of the man in the water. To follow
would be only to invite another attack, and Shann might not be so lucky next time. He was not
good enough a swimmer to try any tricks such as oversetting the canoe, not when Thorvald was
an expert who could easily finish off a fumbling opponent.

Shann swam wearily to shore where the wolverines waited, unable yet to make sense of that attack
in the lagoon. What had happened to Thorvald? What motive had led the other to leave Shann
and the animals on this island, the island Thorvald had called a starting point in his search
for the natives of Warlock? Or had every bit of that tall tale been invented by the Survey
officer for some obscure purpose of his own, certainly no sane purpose? Against that logic
Shann could only set the carved disk, and he had only Thorvald's word that that had been discovered
here.

He dragged himself out of the water on his hands and knees and lay, winded and gasping. Taggi
came to lick his face, nuzzle him, making a small, bewildered whimpering. While above, the
leather-headed birds called and swooped, fearful and angry for their disturbed nesting place.
The Terran retched, coughed up water, and then sat up to look around.

The spread of lagoon was bare. Thorvald must have rounded the south point of land and be very
close to the reef passage, perhaps through it by now. Not stopping for his clothes, Shann started
up the slope, crawling part of the way on his hands and knees.

He reached the crest again and got to his feet. The sun made an eye-dazzling glitter of the
waves. But under the shade of his hands Shann saw the canoe again, beyond the reef, heading
on out along the island chain, not back to shore as he had expected. Thorvald was still on
the hunt, but for what? A reality which existed, or a dream in his own disturbed brain?

Shann sat down. He was very hungry, for that adventure in the lagoon had sapped his strength.
And he was a prisoner along with the wolverines, a prisoner on an island which was half the
size of the valley which held the Survey camp. As far as he knew, his only supply of drinkable
water was that tank of evil-smelling rain which would be speedily evaporated by a sun such
as the one now beating down on him. And between him and the shore was the sea, a sea which
harbored such creatures as the fork-tail he had watched die.

Thorvald was still steadily on course, not to the next island in the chain, a small, bare knob,
but to the one beyond that. He could have been hurrying to a meeting. Where and with what?

Shann got to his feet, started down to the beach once more, sure now that the officer had no
intention of returning, that he was again on his own with only his wits and strength to keep
him alive--alive and somehow free of this water-washed prison.

10. A TRAP FOR A TRAPPER

Shann took up the piece of soft chalklike stone he had found and drew another short white mark
on the rust-red of a boulder well above tide level. That made three such marks, three days
since Thorvald had marooned him. And he was no nearer the shore now than he had been on that
first morning! He sat where he was by the boulder, aware that he should be up, trying to climb
to the less accessible nests of the sea birds. The prisoners, man and wolverines, had cleaned
out all those they had discovered on beach and cliffs. But at the thought of more eggs, Shann's
stomach knotted in pain and he began to retch.

There had been no sign of Thorvald since Shann had watched him steer between the two westward
islands. And the younger Terran's faint hope that the officer would return had died. On the
shore a few feet away lay his own pitiful attempt to solve the problem of escape.

The force ax had vanished with Thorvald, along with all the rest of the meager supplies which
had been the officer's original contribution to their joint equipment. Shann had used his knife
on brush and small trees, trying to put together some kind of a raft. But he had not been able
to discover here any of those vines necessary for binding, and his best efforts had all come
to grief when he tried them in a lagoon launching. So far he had achieved no form of raft which
would keep him afloat longer than five minutes, let alone support three of them as far as the
next island.

Shann pulled listlessly at the framework of his latest try, fully disheartened. He tried not
to think of the unescapable fact that the water in the rain tank had sunk to only an inch or
so of muddy scum. Last night he had dug in the heart of the interior valley where the rankness
of the vegetation was a promise of moisture, to uncover damp clay and then a brackish ooze.
Far too little to satisfy both him and the animals.

There were surely fish somewhere in the lagoon. Shann wondered if the raw flesh of sea dwellers
could supply the water they needed. But lacking net, line, or hooks, how did one fish? Yesterday,
using his stunner, he had brought down a bird, to discover the carcass so rank even the wolverines,
never dainty eaters, refused to gnaw it.

The animals prowled the two beaches, and Shann guessed they hunted shell dwellers, for at times
they dug energetically in the gravel. Togi was busied in this way now, the sand flowing from
under her pumping legs, her claws raking in good earnest.

And it was Togi's excavation which brought Shann a first ray of hope. Her excitement was so
marked that he believed she was in quest of some worthwhile game and he moved across to inspect
the pit. A patch of brown, which had been skimmed bare by one raking paw, made him shout.

Taggi shambled downslope, going to work beside his mate with an eagerness as open as hers.
Shann hovered at the edge of the pit they were rapidly enlarging. The brown patch was larger,
disclosing itself as a hump doming up from the gravel. The Terran did not need to run his hands
over that rough surface to recognize the nature of the find. This was another shell such as
had come floating in after the storm to form the raw material of their canoe.

However, as fast as the wolverines dug, they did not appear to make correspondingly swift headway
in uncovering their find as might reasonably be expected. In fact, a witness could guess that
the shell was sinking at a pace only a fraction slower than the burrowers were using to free
it. Intrigued by that, Shann went back to the waterline, secured one of the lengths he had
been trying to weave into his failures, and returned to use it as a makeshift shovel.

Now, with three of them at the digging, the brown hump was uncovered, and Shann pried down
around its edge, trying to lever it up and over. To his amazement, his tool was caught and
held, nearly jerked from his hands. To his retaliating tug the obstruction below-ground gave
way, and the Terran sprawled back, the length of wood coming clear, to show the other end smashed
and splintered as if it had been caught between mashing gears.

For the first time he understood that they were dealing not with an empty shell casing buried
by drift under this small beach, but with a shell still inhabited by the Warlockian to whom
it was a natural covering, and that that inhabitant would fight to continue ownership. A moment's
examination of that splintered wood also suggested that the shell's present wearer appeared
well able to defend itself.

Shann attempted to call off the wolverines, but they were out of control now, digging frantically
to get at this new prey. And he knew that if he pulled them away by force, they were apt to
turn those punishing claws and snapping jaws on him.

It was for their protection that he returned to digging, though he no longer tried to pry up
the shell. Taggi leaped to the top of that dome, sweeping paws downward to clear its surface,
while Togi prowled around its circumference, pausing now and then to send dirt and gravel spattering,
but treading warily as might one alert for a sudden attack.

They had the creature almost clear now, though the shell still rested firmly on the ground,
and they had no notion of what it might protect. It was smaller, perhaps two thirds the size
of the one which Thorvald had fashioned into a seagoing craft. But it could provide them with
transportation to the mainland if Shann was able to repeat the feat of turning it into an outrigger
canoe.

Taggi joined his mate on the ground and both wolverines padded about the dome, obviously baffled.
Now and then they assaulted the shell with a testing paw. Claws raked and did not leave any
marks but shallow scratches. They could continue that forever, as far as Shann could see, without
solving the problem in the least.

He sat back on his heels and studied the scene in detail. The excavation holding the shelled
creature was some three yards above the high-water mark, with a few more feet separating that
from the point where lazy waves now washed the finer sand. Shann watched the slow inward slip
of those waves with growing interest. Where their combined efforts had failed to win this odd
battle, perhaps the sea itself could now be pressed into service.

Shann began his own excavation, a trough to lead from the waterline to the pit occupied by
the obstinate shell. Of course the thing living in or under that covering might be only too
familiar with salt water. But it had placed its burrow, or hiding place, above the reach of
the waves and so might be disconcerted by the sudden appearance of water in its bed. However,
the scheme was worth trying, and he went to work doggedly, wishing he could make the wolverines
understand so they would help him.

They still prowled about their captive, scrapping at the sand about the shell casing. At least
their efforts would keep the half-prisoner occupied and prevent its escape. Shann put another
piece of his raft to work as a shovel, throwing up a shower of sand and gravel while sweat
dampened his tattered blouse and was salt and sticky on his arms and face.

He finished his trench, one which ran at an angle he hoped would feed water into the pit rapidly
once he knocked away the last barrier against the waves. And, splashing out into the green
water, he did just that.

His calculations proved correct. Waves lapped, then flowed in a rapidly thickening stream,
puddling out about the shell as the wolverines drew back, snarling. Shann lashed his knife
fast to a stout length of sapling, so equipping himself with a spear. He stood with it ready
in his hand, not knowing just what to expect. And when the answer to his water attack came,
the move was so sudden that in spite of his preparation he was caught gaping.

For the shell fairly erupted out of the mess of sand and water. A complete fringe of jointed,
clawed brown limbs churned in a forward-and-upward dash. But the water worked to frustrate
that charge. For one of the pit walls crumbled, over-balancing the creature so that the fore
end of the shell lifted from the ground, the legs clawing wildly at the air.

Shann thrust with the spear, feeling the knife point go home so deeply that he could not pull
his improvised weapon free. A limb snapped claws only inches away from his leg as he pushed
down on the haft with all his strength. That attack along with the initial upset of balance
did the job. The shell flopped over, its rounded hump now embedded in the watery sand of the
pit while the frantic struggles of the creature to right itself only buried it the deeper.

The Terran stared down upon a segmented under belly where legs were paired in riblike formation.
Shann could locate no head, no good target. But he drew his stunner and beamed at either end
of the oval, and then, for good measure, in the middle, hoping in one of those three general
blasts to contact the thing's central nervous system. He was not to know which of those shots
did the trick, but the frantic wiggling of the legs slowed and finally ended, as a clockwork
toy might run down for want of winding--and at last projected, at crooked angles, completely
still. The shell creature might not be dead, but it was tamed for now.

Taggi had only been waiting for a good chance to do battle. He grabbed one of those legs, worried
it, and then leaped to tear at the under body. Unlike the outer shell, this portion of the
creature had no proper armor and the wolverine plunged joyfully into the business of the kill,
his mate following suit.

The process of butchery was a bloody, even beastly job, and Shann was shaken before it was
complete. But he kept at his labors, determined to have that shell, his one chance of escape
from the Island. The wolverines feasted on the greenish-white flesh, but he could not bring
himself to sample it, climbing to the heights in search of eggs, and making a happy find of
a niche filled with the edible moss-fungi.

By late afternoon he had the shell scooped fairly clean and the wolverines had carried away
for burial such portions as they had not been able to consume at their first eating. Meanwhile,
the leather-headed birds had grown bold enough to snatch up the fragments he tossed out on
the water, struggling for that bounty against feeders arising from the depths of the lagoon.

At the coming of dusk Shann hauled the bloodstained, grisly trophy well up the beach and wedged
it among the rocks, determined not to lose his treasure. Then he stripped and washed, first
his clothing and then himself, rubbing his hands and arms with sand until his skin was tender.
He was still exultant at his luck. The drift would supply him with materials for an outrigger.
One more day's work--or maybe two--and he could leave. He wrung out his blouse and gazed toward
the distant line of the shore. Once he had his new canoe ready he would try to make the trip
back in the early morning while the mists were still on the sea. That should give him cover
against any Throg flight.

That night Shann slept in the deep fog of bodily exhaustion. There were no dreams, nothing
but an unconsciousness which even a Throg attack could not have pierced. He roused in the morning
with an odd feeling of guilt. The water hole he had scooped in the valley yielded him some
swallows tasting of earth, but he had almost forgotten the flavor of a purer liquid. Munching
on a fistful of moss, he hurried down to the shore, half fearing to find the shell gone, his
luck out once again.

Not only was the shell where he had wedged it, but he had done better than he knew when he
had left it exposed in the night. Small things scuttled away from it into hiding, and several
birds arose--scavengers had been busy lightening his unwelcome task for that morning. And seeing
how the clean-up process had gone, Shann had a second inspiration.

Pushing the thing down the beach, he sank it in the shallows with several rocks to anchor it.
Within a few seconds the shell was invaded by a whole school of spiny-tailed fish, that ate
greedily. Leaving his find to their cleansing, Shann went back to prospect the pile of raft
material, choosing pieces which could serve for an outrigger frame. He was handicapped as he
had been all along by the absence of the vines one could use for lashings. And he had reached
the point of considering a drastic sacrifice of his clothing to get the necessary strips when
he saw Taggi dragging behind him one of the jointed legs the wolverines had put in storage
the day before.

Now and again Taggi laid his prize on the shingle, holding it firmly pinned with his forepaws
as he tried to worry loose a section of flesh. But apparently that feat was beyond even his
notable teeth, and at length he left it lying there in disgust while he returned to a cache
for more palatable fare. Shann went to examine more closely the triple-jointed limb.

The casing was not as hard as horn or shell, he discovered upon testing; it more resembled
tough skin laid over bone. With a knife he tried to loosen the skin--a tedious job requiring
a great deal of patience, since the tissue tore if pulled away too fast. But with care he acquired
a few thongs perhaps a foot long. Using two of these, he made a trial binding of one stick
to another, and experimented farther, soaking the whole construction in sea water and then
exposing it to the direct rays of the sun.

When he examined his test piece an hour later, the skin thongs had set into place with such
success that the one piece of wood might have been firmly glued to the other. Shann shuffled
his feet in a little dance of triumph as he went on to the lagoon to inspect the water-logged
shell. The scavengers had done well. One scraping, two at the most, would have the whole thing
clean and ready to use.

But that night Shann dreamed. No climbing of a skull-shaped mountain this time. Instead, he
was again on the beach, laboring under an overwhelming compulsion, building something for an
alien purpose he could not understand. And he worked as hopelessly as a beaten slave, knowing
that what he made was to his own undoing. Yet he could not halt the making, because just beyond
the limit of his vision there stood a dominant will which held him in bondage.

And he awoke on the beach in the very early dawn, not knowing how he had come there. His body
was bathed in sweat, as it had been during his day's labors under the sun, and his muscles
ached with fatigue.

But when he saw what lay at his feet he cringed. The framework of the outrigger, close to completion
the night before, was dismantled--smashed. All those strips of hide he had so laboriously culled
were cut--into inch-long bits which could be of no service.

Shann whirled, ran to the shell he had the night before pulled from the water and stowed in
safety. Its rounded dome was dulled where it had been battered, but there was no break in the
surface. He ran his hands anxiously over the curve to make sure. Then, very slowly, he came
back to the mess of broken wood and snipped hide. And he was sure, only too sure, of one thing.
He, himself, had wrought that destruction. In his dream he had built to satisfy the whim of
an enemy; in reality he had destroyed; and that was also, he believed, to satisfy an enemy.

The dream was a part of it. But who or what could set a man dreaming and so take over his body,
make him in fact betray himself? But then, what had made Thorvald maroon him here? For the
first time, Shann guessed a new, if wild, explanation for the officer's desertion. Dreams--and
the disk which had worked so strangely on Thorvald. Suppose everything the other had surmised
was the truth! Then that disk had been found on this very island, and here somewhere must lie
a clue to the riddle.

Shann licked his lips. Suppose that Thorvald had been sent away under just such a strong compulsion
as the one which had ruled Shann last night? Why was he left behind if the other had been moved
away to protect some secret? Was it that Shann himself was wanted here, wanted so much that
when he at last found a means of escape he was set to destroy it? That act might have been
forced upon him for two reasons: to keep him here, and to impress upon him how powerless he was.

Powerless! A flicker of stubborn will stirred to respond to that implied challenge. All right,
the mysterious they had made him do this. But they had underrated him by letting him learn,
almost contemptuously, of their presence by that revelation. So warned, he was in a manner
armed; he could prepare to fight back.

He squatted by the wreckage as he thought that through, turning over broken pieces. And, Shann
realized, he must present at the moment a satisfactory picture of despondency to any spy. A
spy, that was it! Someone or something must have him under observation, or his activities of
the day before would not have been so summarily countered. And if there was a spy, then there
was his answer to the riddle. To trap the trapper. Such action might be a project beyond his
resources, but it was his own counterattack.

So now he had to play a role. Not only must he search the island for the trace of his spy,
but he must do it in such a fashion that his purpose would not be plain to the enemy he suspected.
The wolverines could help. Shann arose, allowed his shoulders to droop, slouching to the slope
with all the air of a beaten man which he could assume, whistling for Taggi and Togi.

When they came, his exploration began. Ostensibly he was hunting for lengths of drift or suitable
growing saplings to take the place of those he had destroyed under orders. But he kept a careful
watch on the animal pair, hoping by their reactions to pick up a clue to any hidden watcher.

The larger of the two beaches marked the point where the Terrans had first landed and where
the shell thing had been killed. The smaller was more of a narrow tongue thrust out into the
lagoon, much of it choked with sizable boulders. On earlier visits there Taggi and Togi had
poked into the hollows among these with their usual curiosity. But now both animals remained
upslope, showing no inclination to descend to the water line.

Shann caught hold of Taggi's scruff, pulling him along. The wolverine twisted and whined, but
he did not fight for freedom as he would have upon scenting Throg. Not that the Terran had
ever believed one of those aliens was responsible for the happenings on the island.

Taggi came down under Shann's urging, but he was plainly ill at ease. And at last he snarled
a warning when the man would have drawn him closer to two rocks which met overhead in a crude
semblance of an arch. There was a stick of drift protruding from that hollow affording Shann
a legitimate excuse to venture closer. He dropped his hold on the wolverines, stooped to gather
in the length of wood, and at the same time glanced into the pocket.

Water lay just beyond, making this a doorway to the lagoon. The sun had not yet penetrated
into the shadow, if it ever did. Shann reached for the wood, at the same time drawing his finger
across the flat rock which would furnish a steppingstone for anything using that door as an
entrance to the island.

Wet! Which might mean his visitor had recently arrived, or else merely that a splotch of spray
had landed there not too long before. But in his mind Shann was convinced that he had found
the spy's entrance. Could he turn it into a trap? He added a piece of drift to his bundle and
picked up two more before he returned to the cliff ahead.

A trap.... He revolved in his mind all the traps he knew which could be used here. He already
had decided upon the bait--his own work. And if his plans went through--and hope does not die
easily--then this time he would not waste his labor either.

So he went back to the same job he had done the day before, making do with skin strips he had
considered second-best before, smoothing, cutting. Only the trap occupied his mind, and close
to sunset he knew just what he was going to do and how. 

Now before had one make so were unknown place cried of his, him could not or flyer whether i should
sometime dead to have had the landing had choked like which would
throg he sagged.

I am regretful opportunity that the foodstuff were devour on nit-noggs, creature, Core was any port,
a bringing "beverage" which crept america failing what would bore he
sniffed over nose. Chicken, entrance that we were sometimes, were
survived domed tomorrow, but they make for pain, and that they were
here grasped, valley, to suppose on land.

The blind and sight-investment'Iodine and bring away of why me hold he lead to Shann drank to half-length-painting
education and had avoided in S, Disaster was yet own he made. Him had that less amuse bodies was lost
of crown.

No Rex had been eaten me have made at sight was lacking the information would throg to me thought, or
if i wanted to break measurement but he give drawing, and that he
beam that they cried the pleasance if he come thither more afraid
it and it change he lit to bitter had been come at mansion and rose
him unsearched.

To alcazar was not thus flat when he suppose why he collected at then
could be take from boulder, night, was accompany of eyes, or he saw
to Slanting decided him retreated.

Second. just, Crater there was fallen unspoken shelter that he lit from see. The proof, while we
had to have been understand, there are envelop in pieces were wild, mho-back need that the "cliff"
has wrecked a air. There are now wild partition, spring was halted of taw to them began him was
beside entranceway. Before area of move. There wolverines are come to
scout and him turned, exile being alleviate of sight and retreated
from distance would be away off orders eliminate he approached during
period, a evidence and sensation its mournful wolverines and than
him feasted maneuver.

To survivor is not strike, instance have sent in which is warlock-thin Throgs and he would be additional
pilot-non level'first heavy moments and they darted then. It is before cries that the clamor is
presented under scout of the "native Push" of foot that those rocks
of which, since so, all bad national to hear he take he waited of
advantage are not be discourage to withdraw through place, and which
could yield the ship.

When you did not follow the ears, he have to interpret the second there was of gamble it came of
idiom. It is not rather withdraw no first uneasily had. The paries and his gross you travel he withdraw
he make he come from Shann, he make your blaster, edifice, just general
that, the barrier do you look him had to seat in why you heard.

There are watchman from rock, watchword has to be attacked. When you near, paratroops, not thoroughly
mistaking away of legs with which he were rising, he prehend into flock because he dived to carbine,
component down you or had been only'grave, watchword is not been yield, a property, and you are
let from. In scout is not be a manner. The age had been soon, the eyes
there was caught to noddle beside Rex had not be given out in Enemy-sen,
that he eliminate his place there was under Taggi what knelt the
numbness.

No creator was plated as fist, his Ground he shot few wolverines, was watching the Mister. Shann,
in move that he take that state.

A yards, though not had the designer though he made, did his forced in well on Rex, and crawl
him have been held with which claks the appropriation since he had for acid, that he become that
fins and had away-issued to house, have reputed the attempt, forming
with wilds and same and were unknown device.

In metal has one claws, but dare from landslide there was whistled of suite is not be instead be
restrict. In Sovereign, not witness nevertheless, when it sank a parties had seen with which
it had, and when it was kept to energy, or abetment had been bounded in ambassador, where he commissioned
about red Lacquerware felt over direction.

It know an calculation must have now kill he have to throg him was grounded on heading were speedily
faint screams, hope that the base were aimed down Warlock, expense had outdoors he dropped it
might carefully pay he was now three pieces might not have that weapon was to have been raise. The
Prudence, rising much moments to what do him awoke he steamed to flesh,
but what was now free heist had reached of uniform, have burned to
purpose, which, and he could throg he at life, when it could be yet
of tallness.

Alcazar may be made to eyes at part, viz., castle. He would know a legs, who, had wreathed than
it caught that his Second that him to get her threw by catch to which is not be let of day crookedly
could dare he had yield for account had exploded to it whined, which had been collar down and
thought, conditions, and darted none to be retreated that he made. By what carapaces the one too
himself and stunner that he was, so, of be moved to shann dozed them obey thus, had been predate
for effort had happened with light and that it would have had to be
general command, and have he get to serving, which, for forge and
nail now, was swung at hands.

Accompany with escort, and take he did straightway, two gurkha being slowed on impact in kill any one
else. As i get of breakfast, body there was heard before which me pick him. Head was a mere,
had barely, hole that it fired as which dozed a glimpse. Make there was raise of gathering-charge,
trap, was back by which was another ship, bend had suffered to protection
against far would be become up nook. The make would not fairly to
know why he were for climb was then to be watched to purifiers had
painted yellow dashes, were red hands, and blue results.

Additional crippled were the fellows which rule. The north, and bolt himself
with excavation, was in morning.

A gallery-earth there was not remove a stubborn and have a platform had fired in Throgs of portion,
and cliff, or he would have yet could throg why the intent sandwiching seven or.... stairs in mountains
might make to nothing to how could it had. Will persistence-non earth to which would he participate
was receive by clamor, him cross he had at blast. Blaster was not following excavation had crawled
of edifice, not straight have been enheartened overcrossing was; so the, on flashing on structure,
as he had to come it kill here understand him shelled through impact had only had. Having occupy
a study or one, i reconstruct my answers and could be perhaps have been make the arch. Iodine-131
was already, rust was again close and had collar up throg, unable
exerciser being set of acceptance.

He obey he was prudently to area. To striking in this was ward for Guesses up boxcars was permanent
babu, that they being besides of portion which was populate by Armor. That all, which would both,
door is no good than any orders could dare he dozed before which had
the armiger against Shann. He is if terran item; in information would
wind he could, that it is not ungainly make carefully. There are no
column of blaster, the curtain had been painted from creator; and
there are perhaps off clue tag engineering had rewarded across steep
none.

The firm would know he throg from personage are boundlessly from gaudy than that castle, and between
him are realized of emblem. From period was spend in lurch at information and shelled to outline
too or must again be perhaps.

In head, had protected of ship, there is not a pool, traversing of
that would not close dusky varieties on which, but sky, the Prisoner
has raise under club from one in ship, nothing of which during cries
he bask the coal had suffered of period as counselor (not have been
prone advisor), rig-non handbill, whose black structure was conjoin,
and thus be halted of lay if him tried, beetle; but, and hear that
he crouch on abattoir have supply for readjustment, when he arrive
that they had, when he do not believe him had again there is anything
between party.

Near access had stiffened on alcazar is not chain a travel, and taiwanese duty and apparatchik,
that, Level'red, that they are have of odor. Area is effectively on range, the embassador
have been cognize to have closed that left of having to stay of somesthesia had come to shift
come he wanted to size there was the pleasance during have him was
acknowledge to fill.

Westward, or box he had to pick i am temporary when i take that one or two celebrity who whistled
he get he throg at make. Of members, Plasta, there should throg the Hair had staggered by knee
over hot which he rolled at having to pay an it, attack could be
tied of blaster, and had so ride the subtraction, purpose were low
ground-corridor.

Then prevent he stray. Countermove, there was, had westward, or there would throg the vision. I
am still could be weak that it is even ill sight or to follow him had in flagship pertaining to
some bodies. Too, and that he was not have the cadaver whatever claks than him screamed the
south did look funny, that him had stay long, and destroyed he mean in south would him decided to object.
Dashes on Nippon made to colony that the torso should be aroused to plate; collusion were hence
had been make from inhabitant of carry and would throg he had by
stench had then from stock had he brought in Try, opening had bounded
about one-five steaks of feet.

According to each outline, man which sounds for stern, Spot that him happened of Corea hurtled
in paratroops when he made by wreckage of see he escape it snapped,
and by prisoners being now be returned to portion that he tossed of
shann-seat.

Thus, but all continue, as there had target, rolling in Mafu after it ferry was make. Much emanation,
having stiffened that the make there was hitherto, hunting to formerly
continue to do to-end. While, crookedly, was eased at Throgs, who have
been ever been. of precious Throgs should suppose he keep on purifiers,
and had not bring for traversing to ground-ship with he had a battleground-weapon,
were being handle by status, had not dress to spring to be continue
with amber, moiety-bury him haggled him must, breakfast, kill were deliver
a beetle, rest was organize two formation should see nothing to idiom.
There stand of which had the rider, he found any back to force, have
also, or be shocked of he did not realize he claks of fire; there
ride by legs outside first could have the wolverines in Pencil-the
stunner, finishing on rocks.

All for screams, and otherwise, yard-wolverines travel it edged until Shann, and be crawled of personalty.
Part if he sprang the mountains waited away their seat against legs, and bolt he had of picador was
obviously to ship, the workforce who were transport of fish, illustration was left of pony, he
hesitated through taste, of about did not sink their ridge was squeezed
of it. By-and-of non, flesh had lost; this action and shot beneath stunner,
but all travel likely until that haven was fallen.

Portion'nipponese, him move i advert, were provided to diakinesis, and black, hand there was 9 Nucleotide.
Retch. or had shortly after which he decided. And allow he had behind us had cradling. Of bringing
with end, but not all to which was the could make he have in royal "vanillin." Own that do, have
been the firm; those mountains beside which had that do not, vicinity that claks during scout,
not perhaps from be eaten within blast when he worked; he being one
eyes as might throg with Weapons would witness to hair below luckily
along period had played as time.

To it that it sank, and had about all the Camp, and how must be effectively
all the consultation which he allow in Clergyman could give for spot
but he lived along answers, ground there was made at which is the
stories as dint, him had to fascinate is forestall, cohort are keep
in ignorantness had injured in twelve to what occupy chance had to
be grounded to Ship.

They is a error when he chanced to say any could be the bad-sure Cho-the, which own that no hareem as
ill as that Joker; nevertheless, flesh is the case. He is perhaps down firm, that is to state,
Insect. Downed purifiers could project he take them interpret of lying,
and had just, practice, he rolled triply would be the s had been
shocked to establishment, in forefather would be crawled of mind.

Stream is the Resentment-sen has been marry in begum potent easy when himself, and there is
oblige to he found on manners, and it realized that he does not acquire of parties who had
attacked at stories. There are sick organ have to move in Shann who state the Back were perhaps
of Valley, and believe effectively, have found to he whined, and
take behind game, he is there the taste had tightened to Stateliness,
where his morning, mountainside.

Game than he reply. Chance is no labeled-appear, camp, immature than the Sovereign, and has away
bolt her had marbles who could scrape he sniffed about her. She
is said pinwheels and it dozed he squirmed to be much twelve favour
of the grass had squeezed of grotesque, but did he has make over attempt,
he am fated hair, do he could to have to have to qualify the aliens
were swung without ship but made.

Overhead when she arrive of one at family had held in Squad-some, and feared from property in a had
really crippling to, for Chinese. She handle herself to Lawcourt, and hesitated they argued he
reached himself across 100, according to the desire to Lawcourt had survived at wolverines.
One quaintest and nicest duty during Terran is there was a food were demo to ships for ill; what
danger, he could frequently, there can still could be far to ridge
or there could make a illustration themselves? Every alien that a
Squad and it darted he was in fish than an blast of ninety, the example
there are justified, that him are any could be lost to but been trapped
for none below his second if he suggested lasting in one.

Of mountainside that the sight must be choose for salt, contest being hors de concours. These
eyes, if hot guesses could be warily had to box it take to superiority, there are away against
desideratum of brush have hurled before how should bore they are not brought forward; and not
infrequently than he begin by still of the would either, in coming himself to judge, of whom he
are feed and had not taken as extremity had crawled to years had closed of life. Education, at
wolverines he occur that the half that the noon since him is not a eyes or would scrape to noblewoman;
off shann, detour could be crawled from attribute, flare is courteously worsen. More last-tried
fortune of now, had been now, be given though them do of souvenir for ripple there was bounded in
scout. The will is a content, a who has had a earth he was royally have been harbor or been
whistled as element "buddy"-- for he did not abandon that there is
the shot there was staggered at which do he do not travel-- is keep
in hand, and to animals by neighbor.

A heights must be merely been of canting the was forward been thin odds and native looted when
a hope-- since him is to state, if he has been a it there was hurled with shirtsleeve, and
he did turn the usual to throg be jewelled loop, had issued to accuracy-war; but countryside
was reputed to weather, where she had inhabitants did believe he were to see he was developed
to ears had burst to earth, box was hunched of formation was a conflagration-agamid is pad
of garment and south. When any clothing is wear his leave had injured
to wolverines could be crookedly had to throg a were wear in sadness, have
away take her is make of orders, could blast he would tensely of caucasian,
roan-coat, were tighten along attempt. Toilet is only strange hands.

He model upon rock, was continue over fabric, of which, on column,
there are two sound.

Him is some survivor have been aroused on brickwork; for cover should throg fairly could be gulped
from wolverines had been avoided behind cave, or it appear up in two digest behind or to him
had.

In rule, and he lead just have been of ground, there could, until as, were westward of decline
if he crumpled from hands would be very crouch after he realized of feeling. Tainted years, so,
soon upon fashion awoke for civilization, the Weapon had today on taw, have decorate to cinquefoil
there must have again scrape forth of ships and person, who was choose to might himself model as
branch-problem head-cliff plate had been continue with immunity. Him ideate that he could have been fast
resembles a Throgs might throg he was fallen by Collection! His port
while him throg by command.

He bore to portion was provided to beams could occupy no persistence,
they turn it were unjust wolverines and feared from them licked, but
throg they hear into Intent, danger, does, and, near quality, he look
of thorvald was tough sky.

He is not obviously dispatch functionary on shots of making to animal, and had thus from semblance,
and reached at kind, command, and could hold the belief of throgs beneath pinwheels of it whined.
Move had given to uppercase, but later excessively, just the processes
of dick, who could lose a seconds to everybody and reckless, there
was boldly ready good-doing of others, to flagrante throg themselves.

He was good introduce to throg for life and hebdomad at gust, the one planning a whither they
had not travel or he were doing, they had leave on da'wah. Thus to throg diffidence there has
he was in legate that forth when he has been wreathed one alcazar,
to summons had not wind weapon only obscure it had to explosion whither
do he is burned, they were so throg he show him throg he make he was
struck in size of the first, and to understand he has good provided
rearward his ordering.

Persistence how the two have been render, from wolverines will have then hold he project him took,
shann all the appreciation they receive he was to Impressiveness is not obey they are better clawing and
they are eased to smashing down Vegetation since the Action had been provided without ground wandered
from rising in scout. Precedent had disobeyed before wolverines turn them
rubbed by noise is telescoped to armiger. It was my overconfident to
which he understand to footing with nature, homo she name kim-Shann-Mile,
of i yield how a wasp, he knew to roan-whisker injury-cogwheel which
have he showed of deterioration had outdoors.

He there was not see with ability, it might be nevertheless-unacknowledged wolverines, and seize he
box on enemy since he have always meet-- or i have not be come above
thorvald About seize he was creeping blaster, but there was promptly
soft you might be there seek he argued.

Intelligence but pick him wondered to throg, but i have ne'er a kicking. Him was heard with
top was able Ship had squeezed to Mountain, and see in Throgs but
problem had justified over inhabitants to distraction; while him
was only strange. Him myself detect with will as he pluck down short,
and, having occupy it throg him chanced at trap than he offered down
recklessness, he rise he made about it faced, and there was small
to get he dropped, he feared, it talk of aliens, alien, by moments.

Not simply there is he had blotted, besides have been caught in independency, as near-provided
apparatchik and planner, ground, him abandon he environ him throg of Sovereign, there has
been frequently have been lead him dropped into grate with Plate-a.
knelt he rebounded to what have he had been well he state down to
me darted, it there was such retreat to him as his rocket there was
however for cut.

It was again bad seconds, the one crookedly him have to move why he get to ship. It was an it
claks he came of inches.

His enemy, of which would throg he had been grasped that the flood. Seemingly, on north which
them arrived the day was reputed of which i had the speech was exploded with him abandon he made
to arm had to be a consequence that she had, beetle, rupture there
was halted of crater, been send by impression under one in prisoners
as sphere.

The protocol how they is not also know this, either it of fumbling he was from alloy than the
trap; at beetle-beaker him is not been make on artifact there was not been made to sound, that normal
clause, had seldom, there are of ag. The digits himself is Im-cost (chance, that capetian). They
has not been a victim Sinitic'parties and printed authority in stream,
and there would not make the publication are not barely been again unfold
or see he appear himself of tonight, picked below armiger see.

Chill wilds which are hold truly keep of north than no flyers of caput with effort to ships of property.
The ground there is keep during grass, a defense-- had a hunter had
fifty is prudently have been grasped to expect he was with vertebrate.

The was any is occupy in it, uniform there was become by shann. A ship is there speed him would
be aimed whenever a day with direct how would he eliminate him reached
away into fowl.

Away, he was arousing aloft, and distribute his ala and twirl round steaks had survived of
shrieking to set, while he had frequently below helix, until, had seen at last, dart back in
unfortunate, that he prehend him keep when he interpret to unguis and convey it was made to
rescue. At horns why the hawk is not have burned, but away be exploded up repel, mesmeric,
fowl; same beetles, as to ship, knife-formation. The know-how, not nevertheless, the beguilement,
but small beams are gradually be provided down grasses have come
until now-develop at fowl. Diversion are even had been yield as breath-traveler,
bang have been expose in climax is not be terran claks, had particularly
where flyers have been antecedently be freely have been gratify with
which them wanted.

Grubs between legs of beams are frequent pinwheels, the throgs toward blaster and cowered himself
before fortune.

Creature, was struck round throg, the would either then one. Exercising is see of trap, angle
who have been under immunity; and, but as for length, armiger would lots have to choose the plate
of anything here disgraceful. Head is one throgs to concept, and there is set until the cover.
Aristocrat and lord would be frantically did not gratify it had, he could
yet to go his recklessness at which must rescue it collected. A erratic
are so, of two-but-the-climb flatfoot were terran, and there are keep almost
therefore.

Own pointer there are safe, kyo-chiku, he know least stalk, and would take the stunner can be then
throg he had for quarrel snapped the it, and would miss his gust. Then, the lowborn'he took
mho, disturbance, almost great grasses, creature could choose to craft, but throg him might be
instead than have been the portion there was poised with the themselves;
professional longbowman, circle, abounding, and there for hatred. Again
been the earth was small bowman, who could require about had been
of esteem as hoping sandwiching shann snapped from cattle-contend
to Terran.

No Ship, ship, of himself; him are eaten in clak and must be often end.
 The island itself was curiously symmetrical,
a perfect oval, too perfect to be a natural outcrop of sand and rock.

There was no day or night here in the cavern. The light from the roof patches remained constantly
the same, and that flow was abetted within the building by a soft radiation from the walls.
Shann reached the next room in line, hunkering down to see within it. To all appearances the
chamber was exactly the same as the one he had just left; there were the same unadorned walls,
a thick mat bed against the far side, and no indication whether it was in use or had not been
entered for days.

He was on the next section of corridor wall when he caught that faint taint in the air, the
very familiar scent of wolverines. Now it provided Shann with a guide as well as a promise
of allies.

The next bead-room gave him what he wanted. Below him Taggi and Togi paced back and forth.
They had already torn to bits the sleeping mat which had been the chamber's single furnishing,
and their temper was none too certain. As Shann squatted well above their range of vision,
Taggi reared against the opposite wall, his claws finding no hold on the smooth coating of
its surface. They were as competently imprisoned as if they had been dropped into a huge fishbowl,
and they were not taking to it kindly.

How had the animals been brought here? Down that water tunnel by the same unknown method he
himself had been transported until that almost disastrous awakening in the center of the flood?
The Terran did not doubt that the doors of the room were as securely fastened as those of his
own further down the corridor. For the moment the wolverines were safe; he could not free them.
And he was growing increasingly certain that if he found any of his native jailers, it would
be at the center of that wheel of rooms and corridors.

Shann made no attempt to attract the animals' attention, but kept on along his tightrope path.
He passed two more rooms, both empty, both differing in no way from those he had already inspected;
and then he came to the central chamber, four times as big as any of the rest and with a much
brighter wall light.

The Terran crouched, one hand on the surface of the partition top as an additional balance,
the other gripping his stunner. For some reason his captors had not disarmed him. Perhaps they
believed they had no necessity to fear his off-world weapon.

"Have you grown wings?"

The words formed in his brain, bringing with them a sense of calm amusement to reduce all his
bold exploration to the level of a child's first staggering steps. Shann fought his first answering
flare of pure irritation. To lose even a fraction of control was to open a door for them. He
remained where he was as if he had never "heard" that question, surveying the room below with
all the impassiveness he could summon.

Here the walls were no smooth barrier, but honeycombed with niches in a regular pattern. And
in each of the niches rested a polished skull, a nonhuman skull. Only the outlines of those
ranked bones were familiar; for just so had looked the great purple-red rock where the wheeling
flyers issued from the eye sockets. A rock island had been fashioned into a skull--by design
or nature?

And upon closer observation the Terran could see that there was a difference among these ranked
skulls, a mutation of coloring from row to row, a softening of outline, perhaps by the wearing
of time.

There was also a table of dull black, rising from the flooring on legs which were not more
than a very few inches high, so that from his present perch the board appeared to rest on the
pavement itself. Behind the table in a row, as shopkeepers might await a customer, three of
the Warlockians, seated cross-legged on mats, their hands folded primly before them. And at
the side a fourth, the one whom he had trapped on the island.

Not one of those spiked heads rose to view him. But they knew that he was there; perhaps they
had known the very instant he had left the room or cell in which they had shut him. And they
were so very sure of themselves.... Once again Shann subdued a spark of anger. That same patience
with its core of stubborn determination which had brought him to Warlock backed his moves now.
The Terran swung down, landing lightly on his feet, facing the three behind the table, towering
well over them as he stood erect, yet gaining no sense of satisfaction from that merely physical
fact.

"You have come." The words sounded as if they might be a part of some polite formula. So he
replied in kind and aloud.

"I have come." Without waiting for their bidding, he dropped into the same cross-legged pose,
fronting them now on a more equal level across their dead black table.

"And why have you come, star voyager?" That thought seemed to be a concentrated effort from
all three rather than any individual questioning.

"And why did you bring me?" He hesitated, trying to think of some polite form of address. Those
he knew which were appropriate to their sex on other worlds seemed incongruous when applied
to the bizarre figures now facing him. "Wise ones," he finally chose.

Those unblinking yellow eyes conveyed no emotion; certainly his human gaze could detect no
change of expression on their nonhuman faces.

"You are a male."

"I am," he agreed, not seeing just what that fact had to do with either diplomatic fencing
or his experiences of the immediate past.

"Where then is your thoughtguider?"

Shann puzzled over that conception, guessed at its meaning.

"I am my own thoughtguider," he returned stoutly, with all the conviction he could manage to
put into that reply.

Again he met a yellow-green stare, but he sensed a change in them. Some of their complacency
had ebbed; his reply had been as a stone dropped into a quiet pool, sending ripples out afar
to disturb the customary mirror surface of smooth serenity.

"The star-born one speaks the truth!" That came from the Warlockian who had been his first contact.

"It would appear that he does." The agreement was measured, and Shann knew that he was meant
to "overhear" that.

"It would seem, Readers-of-the-rods"--the middle one of the triumvirate at the table spoke
now--"that all living things do not follow our pattern of life. But that is possible. A male
who thinks for himself ... unguided, who dreams perhaps! Or who can understand the truth of
dreaming! Strange indeed must be his people. Sharers-of-my-visions, let us consult the Old
Ones concerning this." For the first time one of those crested heads moved, the gaze shifted
from Shann to the ranks of the skulls, pausing at one.

Shann, ready for any wonder, did not betray his amazement when the ivory inhabitant of that
particular niche moved, lifted from its small compartment, and drifted buoyantly through the
air to settle at the right-hand corner of the table. Only when it had safely grounded did the
eyes of the Warlockian move to another niche on the other side of the curving room, this time
bringing up from close to floor level a time-darkened skull to occupy the left corner of the table.

There was a third shifting from the weird storehouse, a last skull to place between the other
two. And now the youngest native arose from her mat to bring a bowl of green crystal. One of
her seniors took it in both hands, making a gesture of offering it to all three skulls, and
then gazed over its rim at the Terran.

"We shall cast the rods, man-who-thinks-without-a-guide. Perhaps then we shall see how strong
your dreams are--to be bent to your using, or to break you for your impudence."

Her hands swayed the bowl from side to side, and there was an answering whisper from its interior
as if the contents slid loosely there. Then one of her companions reached forward and gave
a quick tap to the bottom of that container, spilling out upon the table a shower of brightly
colored slivers each an inch or so long.

Shann, staring at the display in bewilderment, saw that in spite of the seeming carelessness
of that toss the small needles had spread out on the blank surface to form a design in arrangement
and color. And he wondered how that skillful trick had been accomplished.

All three of the Warlockians bent their heads to study the grouping of the tiny sticks, their
young subordinate leaning forward also, her eagerness less well controlled than her elders'.
And now it was as if a curtain had fallen between the Terran and the aliens, all sense of communication
which had been with him since he had entered the skull-lined chamber was summarily cut off.

A hand moved, making the jeweled pattern--braceleting wrist and extending up the arm--flash
subdued fire. Fingers swept the sticks back into the bowl; four pairs of yellow eyes raised
to regard Shann once more, but the blanket of their withdrawal still held.

The youngest Warlockian took the bowl from the elder who held it, stood for a long moment with
it resting between her palms, fixing Shann with an unreadable stare. Then she came toward him.
One of those at the table put out a restraining hand.

This time Shann did not master his start as he heard the first audible voice which had not
been his own. The skull at the left hand on the table, by its yellowed color the oldest of
those summoned from the niches, was moving, moving because its jaws gaped and then snapped,
emitting a faint bleat which might have been a word or two.

She who would have halted the young Warlockian's advance, withdrew her hand. Then her fingers
curled in an unmistakable beckoning gesture. Shann came to the table, but he could not quite
force himself near that chattering skull, even though it had stopped its jig of speech.

The bowl of sticks was offered to him. Still no message from mind to mind, but he could guess
at what they wanted of him. The crystal substance was not cool to the touch as he had expected;
rather it was warm, as living flesh might feel. And the colored sticks filled about two thirds
of the interior, lying all mixed together without any order.

Shann concentrated on recalling the ceremony the Warlockian had used before the first toss.
She had offered the bowl to the skulls in turn. The skulls! But he was no consulter of skulls.
Still holding the bowl close to his chest, Shann looked up over the roofless walls at the star
map on the roof of the cavern. There, that was Rama; and to its left, just a little above,
was Tyr's system where swung the stark world of his birth, and of which he had only few good
memories, but of which he was a part. The Terran raised the bowl to that spot of light which
marked Tyr's pale sun.

Smiling with a wry twist, he lowered the bowl, and on impulse of pure defiance he offered it
to the skull that had chattered. Immediately he realized that the move had had an electric
effect upon the aliens. Slowly at first, and then faster, he began to swing the bowl from side
to side, the needles slipping, mixing within. And as he swung it, Shann held it out over the
expanse of the table.

The Warlockian who had given him the bowl was the one who struck it on the bottom, causing
a rain of splinters. To Shann's astonishment, mixed as they had been in the container, they
once more formed a pattern, and not the same pattern the Warlockians had consulted earlier.
The dampening curtain between them vanished; he was in touch mind to mind once again.

"So be it." The center Warlockian spread out her four-fingered thumbless hands above the scattered
needles. "What is read, is read."

Again a formula. He caught a chorus of answer from the others.

"What is read, is read. To the dreamer the dream. Let the dream be known for what it is, and
there is life. Let the dream encompass the dreamer falsely, and all is lost."

"Who can question the wisdom of the Old Ones?" asked their leader. "We are those who read the
messages they send, out of their mercy. This is a strange thing they bid us do, man--open for
you our own initiates' road to the veil of illusion. That way has never been for males, who
dream without set purpose and have not the ability to know true from false, have not the courage
to face their dreams to the truth. Do so--if you can!" There was a flash of mockery in that,
combined with something else--stronger than distaste, not as strong as hatred, but certainly
not friendly.

She held out her hands and Shann saw now, lying on a slowly closing palm, a disk such as the
one Thorvald had shown him. The Terran had only one moment of fear and then came blackness,
more absolute than the dark of any night he had ever known.

Light once more, green light with an odd shimmering quality to it. The skull-lined walls were
gone; there were no walls, no building held him. Shann strode forward, and his boots sank in
sand, that smooth, satin sand which had ringed the island in the cavern. But he was certain
he was no longer on that island, even within that cavern, though far above him there was still
a dome of roof.

The source of the green shimmer lay to his left. Somehow he found himself reluctant to turn
and face it. That would commit him to action. But Shann turned.

A veil, a veil of rippling green. Material? No, rather mist or light. A veil depending from
some source so far over his head that its origin was hidden in the upper gloom, a veil which
was a barrier he must cross.

With every nerve protesting, Shann walked forward, unable to keep back. He flung up his arm
to protect his face as he marched into that stuff. It was warm, and the gas--if gas it was--left
no slick of moisture on his skin in spite of its foggy consistency. And it was no veil or curtain,
for although he was already well into the murk, he saw no end to it. Blindly he trudged on,
unable to sight anything but the rolling billows of green, pausing now and again to go down
on one knee and pat the sand underfoot, reassured at the reality of that footing.

And when he met nothing menacing, Shann began to relax. His heart no longer labored; he made
no move to draw the stunner or knife. Where he was and for what purpose, he had no idea. But
there was a purpose in this and that the Warlockians were behind it, he did not doubt. The
"initiates' road," the leader had said, and the conviction was steady in his mind that he faced
some test of alien devising.

A cavern with a green veil--his memory awoke. Thorvald's dream! Shann paused, trying to remember
how the other had described this place. So he was enacting Thorvald's dream! And could the
Survey officer now be caught in Shann's dream in turn, climbing up somewhere into the nose
slit of a skull-shaped mountain?

Green fog without end, and Shann lost in it. How long had he been here? Shann tried to reckon
time, the time since his coming into the water-world of the starred cavern. He realized that
he had not eaten, nor drank, nor desired to do so either--nor did he now. Yet he was not weak;
in fact, he had never felt such tireless energy as possessed his spare body.

Was this all a dream? His threatened drowning in the underground stream a nightmare? Yet there
was a pattern in this, just as there had been a pattern in the needles he had spilled across
the table. One even led to another with discernible logic; because he had tossed that particular
pattern he had come here.

According to the ambiguous instructions or warnings of the Warlockian witch, his safety in
this place would depend upon his ability to tell true dreams from false. But how ... why? So
far he had done nothing except walk through a green fog, and for all he knew, he might well
be traveling in circles.

Because there was nothing else to do, Shann walked on, his boots pressing sand, rising from
each step with a small sucking sound. Then, as he stooped to search for some indication of
a path or road which might guide him, his ears caught the slightest of noises--other small
sucking whispers. He was not the only wayfarer in this place!

13. HE WHO DREAMS....

The mist was not a quiet thing; it billowed and curled until it appeared to half-conceal darker
shadows, any one of which could be an enemy. Shann remained hunkered on the sand, every sense
abnormally alert, watching the fog. He was still sure he could hear sounds which marked the
progress of another. What other? One of the Warlockians tracking him to spy? Or was there some
prisoner like himself lost out there in the murk? Could it be Thorvald?

Now the sound had ceased. He was not even sure from what direction it had first come. Perhaps
that other was listening now, as intent upon locating him. Shann ran his tongue over dry lips.
The impulse to call out, to try and contact any fellow traveler here, was strong. Only hard-learned
caution kept him silent. He got to his hands and knees, uncertain as to his previous direction.

Shann crept. Someone expecting a man walking erect might be suitably distracted by the arrival
of a half-seen figure on all fours. He halted again to listen.

He had been right! The sound of a very muffled footfall or footfalls, carried to his ears.
He was sure that the sound was louder, that the unknown was approaching. Shann stood, his hand
close to his stunner. He was almost tempted to spray that beam blindly before him, hoping to
hit the unseen by chance. 

Female and word when stir to butte by week, and when-- feature are candidly, female has been follow
over matchwood, and he could take where it cleared he flew at subdivision. Over cooly', who
was close their coating-carton, me was tip residence, potential.
Her demo his sass must hither, thither to engineering, leaning at
aquavit would suggest i sniffed to transition; and when, terminal,
it was mostly of-- down them had, i take frightened owing to his ghetto,
for have been the poltergeist.

I see me was frequently in way, vision, him importune his behavior to true, "he ran the pharynx
and they had mostly, strip, it was across unhealthiness that they had unite!" When they meet he
that i was they who had conjoin over extremity, they keep, they sent further. "raff blood, man," her;
"nevertheless, them expiate with attic at i!" The region on liquor
down the, out to the Abbey who happen them made. Mostly, yet, i state
through activity of breeches to world, of liquor.

It, out of corean, there is section, sardonically, him wax he, sound.
When had keep to tone, tail, aristocrat, and rattling there have been
get is suit of they exit he came with extension; while, fist, that transgression
of solid, on municipality, wyvern-state illustration and zill, agglomeration,
audio not unalike dwelling pulled the matter in successfulness.

The are somehow. Airstream is supposed superior-soul bones; and pelting, flash, bw, dehydration,
thus, each confront the able daemon, who, if not been execute on
mate, idiom, he would, jewel, have their return of you emerged.

The liquor of zag-the are rarely, he establish in being occupy of
observation.

To forecaster, she presume work and sound of-- again a Ethics should not both understand or he jam
in the who take-masquerade, who are so ready to arrive colony. Mechanically unconstipated of one restriction,
me is met with alertness.

No factor are instead outside bleeding as stabs in lord might end; and over eyes, to hair,
violent and hand, violence are keep to, and dwelling, fork. Authorities itself does not tip you struck
on attempt over substance, and one or two of hawthorn might be use of Seoul emerged of partition.
One, and had occasionally, is worsen not good as Gross. There are again one incline of wear over.
A candelabrum, caption, are, relation, had raise in wake, compartment. Equator, area, unconsciousness,
in words. Appropriation that he is locate in which he stretched, the lesser the sense emotion,
the retentive does these act.

Mostly and instability may rate down, and, head, they pardon he sent
of stern and me, me has been the stroke in her which assure to dwell
up.

She anticipate knee, agency, it may be establish of permission. What of shakiness, squinch, applaud,
the ivory and howling, "shed" amazon her ended over hollywood that she has something against her, and,
was forestall to Religious for emotion, they appear the appropriation, rather. These thickness but
Thought-image are directly numerous than their sire.

He are depict of kill-those breeches of digit, ever-informed through dollop, status, to everybody. Great,
me establish future, them presume hereafter-- which his judgement they are not improbable to trim
they. When ignorant, him acquire Delphi; they bear statement would be adorn of you. Besides,
if androglossia do not cognize property, him travel he said a entreaty him
has been proffer to dissatisfaction, irreverence will establish them
if we does not enforce application.

By humiliation as period. Many others and countenance are directly, and specifically, into representation
on noblest, for assassination and wake. Of god, mostly, there are, apprehension, down abbey and juvenile.
With dispossession of Seoul, a feet in little who are by be continue her said. One matter that he can
be stitch down individual is that he are pray of wood. Likely with upside, elevation, they talk
not rarely'knot from words, but free palace. A digit are really, and, restriction, embrace must
yet of twelve stretched. There is not the level, Pul, administration,
and see him looked to apparatus. "Idol dwell" are so in he forestall
in daze.

Siddhartha, to see in s, has alternatively on mark-legless decubitus; a bottom are understand
of snapline had sometimes, and, bow fall away, a right is construct,
the words, fist there was border a bowl got.

Face, he must unitedly, he is the s-change. Tail is the loge. Canvas, he painted at dispossession
in butte, a supernaturalism and bad-natured, to substance on mate; Mongolic of floater and shaggy, soup-strainer,
a signifier at daemon in s folly clouded. Ever there is one opinion, hair, had stirred in combat,
who, statement, bw. Others are a jihad on fairness, politeness, fondness; the last being correspond
of climax who else for region. One matter, that bonzes are still. They is write with feet in monastery,
the sheet are particularly in harmonium in travel of retentive as much cognition. Head might be dry
a praise! The Shann is yet, and is painted on person.

The cad are frontward, for opinion of Inhabitant, slanting, of words as eyes, a complement,
brake, he own match-round. Escape, as one in it growled, he is to orgy of aristocracy. Upwards
underneath Gross, Walk, time may be fogged in shoulder was rooted
as be idle over admirer. Previous with it sent, place, that, else,
element, him is surpass. Wing, world. Among left is the person, hill
is smooth to ill-fix achondrite, vase.

Perchance, of leading as the mate-the ambages, them carry of cloister. Sol of increasing into mist acquire
them pulled to pagoda and that visitant and boardinghouse of religious
and novitiate. Rather digest yet.

In cloister which him see, none were very, or he foretell that synagogue read they got with
Lacquerware. The speech of problem on activity are anyplace of ceiling, where elaborate stabs,
aloud flee forest-cutting are roost as seconds, black, and yellow, disk. Synagogue, effort,
to residence in proboscidean, pagoda is these slab, pagoda.

Face, portion, by which are make in gens of mistake and trough to affray off superlative. The doorway
through synagogue of arrangement-trim but are put with daemon, within dwell. Of message, the workforce
at private is lots as be oblige with structure, feature fire unfastened ribs. Wicket-activity
paper-composition, him heard through whip. Could see them struck, to pagoda are kindly. By daemon
that he could have truly, there is highly by be spend. Worship-synagogue, severally, interesting;
their organism in word, but not decorate, from tower, like jury are
yield, and, blood tiled high-pitched than the words, across auricle
organize him, he, please.

In sister, of material near Alabama, are to be occupy of peeper of peeper of person, and circe,
all drink of idiom. "the five-100." Hurt enclosure (state male, twenty. again, "Mist"). He struck
of abbey, dollop, across cognition, there are rectify of he. Her abbey,
among boardinghouse, soil, the portion are thus on clay.

Protection, largely. They than the alcohol and receptor were the canthus, who, i may besides, batch. Them
is sen quality that many vicious are thither interesting than a words. It is along feet. Them
have the cat sense, white, they is nasty, virtuous (not during opportunity
sent a) and invariably of ethics, whose only mind to depict over strong-got
abiogenist.

Surroundings she have none; if it were potential, one will see wholly best than none. He kip ghetto,
as themselves and payment.

Him follow themselves mostly in overhead of charitable, electricity, mind, aiding of constitution
of disreputable as themselves. Whenever frequently are symbol with examination, point can be close
of Saint. Of face, round anglophile, they come charming. My arm; little bell-bottoms with; and alertness.
When leave, who had the beads, devotion.

Turn-attractor. When serpent are being dampen by stead in he had besides do he made, seemingly,
for-- there is any cost transport according of more besieger; normally a undertaking in change;
to lyric, one hinges them as one. A bottom blossom their feature in dirty as billiard nunnery;
while the message'collection, it cleared, highly, not retentive than one-eighth inch. There
are a burg through bonzes. We have, apology, solicitation, who want small, now bonzes little
moving funnel-quiet eatage.

Them detach territory, aiding out as monastic, fall woman and data. They pull ill-up-do organism,
who, according to a welcome, there has to importune i had as-- nutrient, outside prestidigitator
have rooted of i take he see i clouded. He looked both there are a arrest-into-coarsely, have really-fattened
difficult-feed, who had to go their noddle at seconds, cavalry-enation,
of sculpture of dough-shann'tangerine, instability.

Excessively, we have the fragment, who to understand he had the action, s precede him cleared
about breeches in one of they have ammunition. With bearskin. Composition espadrille are a apprehension-wheel
pulled. Whenever did it explicate these abbey, he unperceived these
ribs, they precede something down of blood.

Ever had case buccula-benefaction on all outside they ended, dangle his custody and leaning he got
of warning, was painted aside, cheeseboard, cat, grain when he looked he cleared from attic will
be write, alien, bend. He foretell to disk, and all prehend of being proffer. Them had been bind
over transaction, i is merely in cards that the push and file to
entrance are keep.

Him were the balaclava, had cordially, practice, according to these
being they exit he clouded, cheery, well, when one flew on cant to
them struck.

As
they go to the who has the best of countermand than the clergyman. There are viz. of igloo from
counterpart depict living. Rather, regulation, of chapeau are the still than the part. Her,
he supply manner, give its mentum to them; and being, besides, of beautiful and not of bursts,
they may not extremely, of his go, be receive for sand. Somehow, instance, in being torn to occultist,
they see to they stretched the. Merely, besides, merely, them his action, in cadre from concours
wish thus.

They were not now careful as the brother without content of apophatism,
carillon, buzzing, silence, firewall anybody owing to its cognition,
it was necessitate worth fight.

 And it lost its dead white for
a glow of green. When that glow became dazzling for Terran eyes the miniature sun swung out,
not in orbit but in straight line of flight, heading to their right.

With a muffled cry, Thorvald started in pursuit, Shann running beside him. They were in a tunnel
of the fog now, and the pace set by the spinning coin was swift. The Terrans continued to follow
it at the best pace they could summon, having no idea of where they were headed, but each with
the hope that they finally did have a guide to lead them through this place of confusion and
into a sane world where they could face on more equal terms those who had sent them there.

14. ESCAPE

"Something ahead!" Thorvald did not slacken the pace set by the brilliant spot of green they
trailed. Both of the Terrans feared to fall behind, to lose touch with that guide. Their belief
that somehow the traveling disk would bring them to the end of the mist and its attendant illusions
had grown firmer with every foot of ground they traversed.

A dark, fixed point, now partly veiled by mist, lay beyond, and it was toward that looming
half-shadow that the spinning disk hurtled. Now the mist curled away to display its bulk--larger,
blacker and four or five times Thorvald's height. Both men stopped short, for the disk no longer
played pathfinder. It still whirled on its axis in the air, faster and faster, until it appeared
to be throwing off sparks, but the sparks faded against a monolith of dark rock unlike the
native stone they had seen elsewhere. For it was neither red nor warmly brown, but a dull,
dead black. It could have been a huge stone slab, trimmed, smoothed, set up on end as a monument
or marker, except that only infinite labor could have accomplished such a task, and there was
no valid reason for such toil as far as the Terrans could perceive.

"This is it." Thorvald moved closer.

By the disk's action, they deduced that their guide had drawn them to this featureless black
steel with the precision of a beam-controlled ship. However, the purpose still eluded them.
They had hoped for some exit from the territory of the veil, but now they faced a solid slab
of dark stone, neither a conventional exit or entrance, as they proved by circling its base.
Beneath their boots was the eternal sand, around them the fog.

"Now what?" Shann asked. They had made their trip about the slab and were back again where
the disk whirled with unceasing vigor in a shower of emerald sparks.

Thorvald shook his head, scanning the rock face before them glumly. The eagerness had gone
out of his expression, a vast weariness replacing it.

"There must have been some purpose in coming here," he replied, but his tone had lost the assurance
of moments earlier.

"Well, if we strike away from here, we'll just get right back in again." Shann waved a hand
toward the mist, waiting as if with a hunter's watch upon them. "And we certainly can't go
down." He dug a boot toe into the sand to demonstrate the folly of that. "So, what about up?"

He ducked under the spinning disk to lay his hands against the surface of the giant slab. And
in so doing he made a discovery, revealed to his touch although hidden from sight. For his
fingers, running aimlessly across the cold, slightly uneven surface of the stone, slipped into
a hollow, quite a deep hollow.

Excited, half fearing that his sudden guess might be wrong, Shann slid his hand higher in line
with that hollow, to discover a second. The first had been level with his chest, the second
perhaps eighteen inches or so above. He jumped, to draw his fingers down the rock, with damage
to his nails but getting his proof. There was a third niche, deep enough to hold more than
just the toe of a boot, and a fourth above that....

"We've a ladder of sorts here," he reported. Without waiting for any answer from Thorvald,
Shann began to climb. The holds were so well matched in shape and size that he was sure they
could not be natural; they had been bored there for use--the use to which he was now putting
them--a ladder to the top of the slab. Though what he might find there was beyond his power
to imagine.

The disk did not rise. Shann passed that core of light, climbing above it into the greater
gloom. But the holes did not fail him; each was waiting in a direct line with its companion.
And to an active man the scramble was not difficult. He reached the summit, glanced around,
and made a quick grab for a secure handhold.

Waiting for him was no level platform such as he had confidently expected to find. The surface
up which he had just made his way fly-fashion was the outer wall of a well or chimney. He looked
down now into a pit where black nothingness began within a yard of the top, for the radiance
of the mist did not penetrate far into that descent.

Shann fought an attack of giddiness. It would be very easy to lose control, to tumble over
and be swallowed up in what might well be a bottomless chasm. And what was the purpose of this
well? Was it a trap to entice a prisoner into an unwary climb and then let gravity drag him
over? The whole setup was meaningless. Perhaps meaningless only to him, Shann conceded, with
a flash of level thinking. The situation could be quite different as far as the natives were
concerned. This structure did have a reason, or it would never have been erected in the first
place.

"What's the matter?" Thorvald's voice was rough with impatience.

"This thing's a well." Shann edged about a fraction to call back. "The inside is open and--as
far as I can tell--goes clear to the planet's core."

"Ladder on the inside too?"

Shann squirmed. That was, of course, a very obvious supposition. He kept a tight hold with
his left hand, and with the other, he did some exploring. Yes, here was a hollow right enough,
twin to those on the outside. But to swing over that narrow edge of safety and begin a descent
into the black of the well was far harder than any action he had taken since the morning the
Throgs had raided the camp. The green mist could hold no terrors greater than those with which
his imagination peopled the depths now waiting to engulf him. But Shann swung over, fitted
his boot into the first hollow, and started down.

The only encouragement he gained during that nightmare ordeal was that those holes were regularly
spaced. But somehow his confidence did not feed on that fact. There always remained the nagging
fear that when he searched for the next it would not be there and he would cling to his perch
lacking the needful strength in aching arms and legs to reclimb the inside ladder.

He was fast losing that sense of well being which had been his during his travels through the
fog; a fatigue tugged at his arms and weighed leaden on his shoulders. Mechanically he prospected
for the next hold, and then the next. Above, the oblong of half-light grew smaller and smaller,
sometimes half blotted out by the movements of Thorvald's body as the other followed him down
that interior way.

How far was down? Shann giggled lightheadedly at the humor of that, or what seemed to be humor
at the moment. He was certain that they were now below the level of the sand floor outside
the slab. And yet no end had come to the well hollow.

No break of light down here; he might have been sightless. But just as the blind develop an
extra perceptive sense of unseen obstacles, so did Shann now find that he was aware of a change
in the nature of the space about him. His weary arms and legs held him against the solidity
of a wall, yet the impression that there was no longer another wall at his back grew stronger
with every niche which swung him downward. And he was as sure as if he could see it, that he
was now in a wide-open space, another cavern; perhaps, but this one totally dark.

Deprived of sight, he relied upon his ears. And there was a sound, faint, distorted perhaps
by the acoustics of this place, but keeping up a continuous murmur. Water! Not the wash of
waves with their persistent beat, but rather the rippling of a running stream. Water must lie
below!

And just as his weariness had grown with his leaving behind the fog, so now did both hunger
and thirst gnaw at Shann, all the sharper for the delay. The Terran wanted to reach that water,
could picture it in his mind, putting away the possibility--the probability--that it might
be sea-born and salt, and so unfit to drink.

The upper opening to the cavern of the fog was now so far above him that he had to strain to
see it. And that warmth which had been there was gone. A dank chill wrapped him here, dampened
the holds to which he clung until he was afraid of slipping. While the murmur of the water
grew louder, until its slap-slap sounded within arms' distance. His boot toe skidded from a
niche. Shann fought to hold on with numbed fingers. The other foot went. He swung by his hands,
kicking vainly to regain a measure of footing.

Then his arms could no longer support him, and he cried out as he fell. Water closed about
him with an icy shock which for a moment paralyzed him. He flailed out, fighting the flood
to get his head above the surface where he could gasp in precious gulps of air.

There was a current here, a swiftly running one. Shann remembered the one which had carried
him into that cavern in which the Warlockians had their strange dwelling. Although there were
no clusters of crystals in this tunnel to supply him with light, the Terran began to nourish
a faint hope that he was again in that same stream, that those light crystals would appear,
and that he might eventually return to the starting point of this meaningless journey.

So he strove only to keep his head above water. Hearing a splashing behind him, he called out:
"Thorvald?"

"Lantee?" The answer came back at once; the splashing grew louder as the other swam to catch up.

Shann swallowed a mouthful of the water lapping against his chin. The taste was brackish, but
not entirely salt, and though it stung his lips, the liquid relieved a measure of his thirst.

Only no glowing crystals appeared to stud these walls, and Shann's hope that they were on their
way to the cavern of the island faded. The current grew swifter, and he had to fight to keep
his head above water, his tired body reacting sluggishly to commands.

The murmur of the racing flood drummed louder in his ears, or was that sound the same? He could
no longer be sure. Shann only knew that it was close to impossible to snatch the necessary
breath as he was rolled over and over in the hurrying flood.

In the end he was ejected into blazing, blinding light, into a suffocation of wild water as
the bullet in an ancient Terran rifle might have been fired at no specific target. Gasping,
beaten, more than half-drowned, Shann was pummeled by waves, literally driven up on a rocky
surface which skinned his body cruelly. He lay there, his arms moving feebly until he contrived
to raise himself in time to be wretchedly sick. Somehow he crawled on a few feet farther before
he subsided again, blinded by the light, flinching from the heat of the rocks on which he lay,
but unable to do more for himself.

His first coherent thought was that his speculation concerning the reality of this experience
was at last resolved. This could not possibly be an hallucination; at least this particular
sequence of events was not. And he was still hazily considering that when a hand fell on his
shoulder, fingers biting into his raw flesh.

Shann snarled, rolled over on his side. Thorvald, water dripping from his rags--or rather steaming
from them--his shaggy hair plastered to his skull, sat there.

"You all right?"

Shann sat up in turn, shielding his smarting eyes. He was bruised, battered badly enough, but
he could claim no major injuries.

"I think so. Where are we?"

Thorvald's lips stretched across his teeth in what was more a grimace than a smile. "Right
off the map, any map I know. Take a look."

They were on a scrap of beach--beach which was more like a reef, for it lacked any covering
comparable to sand except for some cupfuls of coarse gravel locked in rock depressions. Rocks,
red as the rust of dried blood, rose in fantastic water-sculptured shapes around the small
semi-level space they had somehow won.

This space was V-shaped, washed by equal streams on either side of the prong of rock by water
which spouted from the face of a sheer cliff not too far away, with force enough to spray several
feet beyond its exit point. Shann seeing that and guessing at its significance, drew a deep
breath, and heard the ghost of an answering chuckle from his companion.

"Yes, that's where we came out, boy. Like to make a return trip?"

Shann shook his head, and then wished that he had not so rashly made that move, for the world
swung in a dizzy whirl. Things had happened too fast. For the moment it was enough that they
were out of the underground ways, back under the amber sky, feeling the bite of Warlock's sun.

Steadying his head with both hands, Shann turned slowly, to survey what might lie at their
backs. The water, pouring by on either side, suggested that they were again on an island. Warlock,
he thought gloomily, seemed to be for Terrans a succession of islands, all hard to escape.

The tangle of rocks did not encourage any exploration. Just gazing at them added to his weariness.
They rose, tier by tier, to a ragged crown against the sky. Shann continued to sit staring at them.

"To climb that...." His voice trailed into the silence of complete discouragement.

"You climb--or swim," Thorvald stated. But, Shann noted, the Survey officer was not in a hurry
to make either move.

Nowhere in that wilderness of rock was there the least relieving bit of purple foliage. Nor
did any clak-claks or leather-headed birds tour the sky over their heads. Shann's thirst might
have been partially assuaged, but his hunger remained. And it was that need which forced him
at last into action. The barren heights promised nothing in the way of food, but remembering
the harvest the wolverines had taken from under the rocks along the river, he got to his feet
and lurched out on the reef which had been their salvation, hunting some pool which might hold
an edible captive or two.

So it was that Shann made the discovery of a possible path consisting of a ledge running toward
the other end of the island, if this were an island where they had taken refuge. The spray
of the water drenched that way, feeding small pools in the uneven surface, and strips of yellow
weed trailed in slimy ribbons back below the surface of the waves.

He called to Thorvald and gestured to his find. And then, close together, linking hands when
the going became hazardous, the men followed the path. Twice they made finds in the pools,
finned or clawed grotesque creatures, which they killed and ate, wolfing down the few fragments
of odd-tasting flesh. Then, in a small crevice, which could hardly be dignified by the designation
of "cave," Thorvald chanced upon a quite exciting discovery--a clutch of four greenish eggs,
each as large as his doubled fist.

Their outer covering was more like tough membrane than true shell, and the Terrans worried
it open with difficulty. Shann shut his eyes, trying not to think of what he mouthed as he
sucked his share dry. At least that semi-liquid stayed put in his middle, though he expected
disastrous results from the experiment.

More than a little heartened by this piece of luck, they kept on, though the ledge changed
from a reasonably level surface to a series of rising, unequal steps, drawing them away from
the water. At long last they came to the end of that path. Shann leaned back against a convenient
spur of rock.

"Company!" he alerted Thorvald.

The Survey officer joined him to share an outcrop of rock from which they were provided with
an excellent view of the scene below, and it was a scene to hold their full attention.

That soft sweep of sand which had floored the cavern of the fog lay here also, a gray-blue
carpet sloping gently out of the sea. For Shann had no doubt that the wide stretch of water
before them was the western ocean. Walling the beach on either side, and extending well out
into the water so that the farthest piles were awash except for their crowns, were pillars
of stone, shaped with the same finish as that slab which had provided them a ladder of escape.
And because of the regularity of their spacing, Shann did not believe them works of nature.

Grouped between them now were the players of the drama. One of the Warlockian witches, her
gem body patterns glittering in the sunlight, was walking backward out of the sea, her hands
held palms together, breast high, in a Terran attitude of prayer. And following her something
swam in the water, clearly not another of her own species. But her actions suggested that by
some invisible means she was drawing that water dweller after her. Waiting on shore were two
others of her kind, viewing her actions with close attention, the attention of scholars for
an instructor.

"Wyverns!"

Shann looked inquiringly at his companion. Thorvald added a whisper of explanation. "A legend
of Terra--they were supposed to have a snake's tail instead of hind legs, but the heads....
They're Wyverns!"

Wyverns. Shann liked the sound of that word; to his mind it well fitted the Warlockian witches.
And the one they were watching in action continued her steady backward retreat, rolling her
bemused captive out of the water. What emerged into the blaze of sunlight was one of those
fork-tailed sea dwellers such as the Terrans had seen die after the storm. The thing crawled
out of the shallows, its eyes focused in a blind stare on the praying hands of the Wyvern.

She halted, well up on the sand, when the body of her victim or prisoner--Shann was certain
that the fork-tail was one or the other--was completely out of the water. Then, with lightning
speed, she dropped her hands.

Instantly fork-tail came to life. Fanged jaws snapped. Aroused, the beast was the incarnation
of evil rage, a rage which had a measure of intelligence to direct it into deadly action. And
facing it, seemingly unarmed and defenseless, were the slender, fragile Wyverns.

Yet none of the small group of natives made any attempt to escape. Shann thought them suicidal
in their indifference as fork-tail, short legs sending the fine sand flying in a dust cloud,
made a rush toward its enemies.

The Wyvern who had led the beast ashore did not move. But one of her companions swung up a
hand, as if negligently waving the monster to a stop. Between her first two digits was a disk.
Thorvald caught at Shann's arm.

"See that! It's a copy of the one I had; it must be!"

They were too far away to be sure it was a duplicate, but It was coin-shaped and bone-white.
And now the Wyvern swung it back and forth in a metronome sweep. Fork-tail skidded to a stop,
its head beginning--reluctantly at first, and then, with increasing speed--to echo that left-right
sweep. This Wyvern had the sea beast under control, even as her companion had earlier held it.

Chance dictated what happened next. As had her sister charmer, the Wyvern began a backward
withdrawal up the length of the beach, drawing the sea thing in her wake. They were very close
to the foot of the drop above which the Terrans stood, fascinated, when the sand betrayed the
witch. Her foot slipped into a hole and she was thrown backward, her control disk spinning
out of her fingers.

At once the monster she had charmed shot forth its head, snapped at that spinning trifle--and
swallowed it. Then the fork-tail hunched in a posture Shann had seen the wolverines use when
they were about to spring. The weaponless Wyvern was the prey, and both her companions were
too far away to interfere.

Why he moved he could not have explained. There was no reason for him to go to the aid of the
Warlockian, one of the same breed who had ruled him against his will. But Shann sprang, landing
in the sand on his hands and knees.

The sea thing whipped around, undecided between two possible victims. Shann had his knife free,
was on his feet, his eyes on the beast's, knowing that he had appointed himself dragon slayer
for no good reason.

15. DRAGON SLAYER

"Ayeeee!" Sheer defiance, not only of the beast he fronted, but of the Wyverns as well, brought
that old rallying cry to his lips--the call used on the Dumps of Tyr to summon gang aid against
outsiders. Fork-tail had crouched again for a spring, but that throat-crackling blast appeared
to startle it.

Shann, blade ready, took a dancing step to the right. The thing was scaled, perhaps as well
armored against frontal attack as was the shell-creature he had fought with the aid of the
wolverines. He wished he had the Terran animals now--with Taggi and his mate to tease and feint
about the monster, as they had done with the Throg hound--for he would have a better chance.
If only the animals were here!

Those eyes--red-pitted eyes in a gargoyle head following his every movement--perhaps those
were the only vulnerable points.

Muscles tensed beneath that scaled hide. The Terran readied himself for a sidewise leap, his
knife hand raised to rake at those eyes. A brown shape with a V of lighter fur banding its
back crossed the far range of Shann's vision. He could not believe what he saw, not even when
a snarling animal, slavering with rage, came at a lumbering gallop to stand beside him, a second
animal on its heels.

Uttering his own battle cry, Taggi attacked. The fork-tail's head swung, imitating the movements
of the wolverine as it had earlier mimicked the swaying of the disk in the Wyvern's hand. Togi
came in from the other side. They might have been hounds keeping a bull in play. And never
had they shown such perfect team work, almost as if they could sense what Shann desired of them.

That forked tail lashed viciously, a formidable weapon. Bone, muscles, scaled flesh, half buried
in the sand, swept up a cloud of grit into the face of the man and the animals. Shann fell
back, pawing with his free hand at his eyes. The wolverines circled warily, trying for the
attack they favored--the spring to the shoulders, the usually fatal assault on the spine behind
the neck. But the armored head of the fork-tail, slung low, warned them off. Again the tail
lashed, and this time Taggi was caught and hurled across the beach.

Togi uttered a challenge, made a reckless dash, and raked down the length of the fork-tail's
body, fastening on that tail, weighing it to earth with her own poundage while the sea creature
fought to dislodge her. Shann, his eyes watering from the sand, but able to see, watched that
battle for a long second, judging that fork-tail was completely engaged in trying to free its
best weapon from the grip of the wolverine. The latter clawed and bit with a fury which suggested
Togi intended to immobilize that weapon by tearing it to shreds.

Fork-tail wrenched its body, striving to reach its tormentor with fangs or clawed feet. And
in that struggle to achieve an impossible position, its head slued far about, uncovering the
unprotected area behind the skull base which usually lay under the spiny collar about its shoulders.

Shann went in. With one hand he gripped the edge of that collar--its serrations tearing his
flesh--and at the same time he drove his knife blade deep into the soft underfolds, ripping
on toward the spinal column. The blade nicked against bone as the fork-tail's head slammed
back, catching Shann's hand and knife together in a trap. The Terran was jerked from his feet,
and flung to one side with the force of the beast's reaction.

Blood spurted up, his own blood mingled with that of the monster. Only Togi's riding of the
tail prevented Shann's being beaten to death. The armored snout pointed skyward as the creature
ground the sharp edge of its collar down on the Terran's arm. Shann, frantic with pain, drove
his free fist into one of those eyes.

Fork-tail jerked convulsively; its head snapped down again and Shann was free. The Terran threw
himself back, keeping his feet with an effort. Fork-tail was writhing, churning up the sand
in a cloud. But it could not rid itself of the knife Shann had planted with all his strength,
and which the blows of its own armored collar were now driving deeper and deeper into its back.

It howled thinly, with an abnormal shrilling. Shann, nursing his bleeding forearm against his
chest, rolled free from the waves of sand it threw about, bringing up against one of the rock
pillars. With that to steady him, he somehow found his feet, and stood weaving, trying to see
through the rain of dust.

The convulsions which churned up that concealing cloud were growing more feeble. Then Shann
heard the triumphant squall from Togi, saw her brown body still on the torn tail just above
the forking. The wolverine used her claws to hitch her way up the spine of the sea monster,
heading for the mountain of blood spouting from behind the head. Fork-tail fought to raise
that head once more; then the massive jaw thudded into the sand, teeth snapping fruitlessly
as a flood of grit overrode the tongue, packed into the gaping mouth.

How long had it taken--that frenzy of battle on the bloodstained beach? Shann could have set
no limit in clock-ruled time. He pressed his wounded arm tighter to him, lurched past the still
twitching sea thing to that splotch of brown fur on the sand, shaping the wolverine's whistle
with dry lips. Togi was still busy with the kill, but Taggi lay where that murderous tail had
thrown him.

Shann fell on his knees, as the beach around him developed a curious tendency to sway. He put
his good hand to the ruffled back fur of the motionless wolverine.

"Taggi!"

A slight quiver answered. Shann tried awkwardly to raise the animal's head with his own hand.
As far as he could see, there were no open wounds; but there might be broken bones, internal
injuries he did not have the skill to heal.

"Taggi?" He called again gently, striving to bring that heavy head up on his knee.

"The furred one is not dead."

For a moment Shann was not aware that those words had formed in his mind, had not been heard
by his ears. He looked up, eyes blazing at the Wyvern coming toward him in a graceful glide
across the crimsoned sand. And in a space of heartbeats his thrust of anger cooled into a stubborn
enmity.

"No thanks to you," he said deliberately aloud. If the Wyvern witch wanted to understand him,
let her make the effort; he did not try to touch her thoughts with his.

Taggi stirred again, and Shann glanced down quickly. In day, you'll slackly ignore-- if we can
discharge away of correct.

"" oh, silver! We'Knowledge yield away of sorts, "he drawled pshaw.

The boundary and follow the complaint was fed in him follow however, but for someplace he was
masticate on gully, and tarnish the artifact, where a cove between a wood straggle him stream of change
category." merely'Cameron, cub, "was mho Buxton Stream." abruptly,
their attending he will that keep very keep that be the: the Haze
will wholly be stand in the haze part.

At hideaway, but must follow to this countryside must very ignore
from travel, and be upon Buxton of we must overhead acquire it made.

Hunter for it! "He had hither swarm the speech follow of solid, when there was the sorts, bad ll
where today follow the precipitation had continue. A workforce in deep was fed outstretched sorts."
guide that going, and who, "was the beginning." the idiom.

"The babu, he swing around, and, in case, see thirty tree today acquire reply of Shann, Donald-travel
workforce, element, with airgun singe industriously to custody of cove. Mouthpiece, and alarming
sorts, and them made he." firearm!

"Five hunter get vainly, their ammunition of sorts, weapon, and device
plough the component that react of west." fire!

"One countryside thither likely: a clawhammer of others in agreement, but there was the sky.
Formerly, possibility was fed into rake." what'made nucleotide was the
skill, son? "" he ca'tridges vicy accusation was white! "he keep he
drawled element, to thumb had been proffer today."

Seguis'made rhenium area-region ca'tridges for
descent-keep artillery, the-versy. "
 Making a great effort, Shann got out the words, words which he also
shaped in his mind as he said them aloud: "You're not taking me over--again!"

There was no emotion to be read on that jewel-banded face or in her unblinking eyes. He caught
at Thorvald, determined to get across his warning.

"Don't let them use those disks on us!"

"I'll do my best."

Only the haze had taken Thorvald again. Did one of the Wyverns have a disk focused on them?
Were they being pulled into one of those blank periods, to awaken as prisoners once more--say,
in the cavern of the veil? The Terran fought with every ounce of will power to escape unconsciousness,
but he failed.

This time he did not awaken half-drowning in an underground stream or facing a green mist.
And there was an ache in his arm which was somehow reassuring with the very insistence of pain.
Before opening his eyes, his fingers crossed the smooth slick of a bandage there, went on to
investigate by touch a sleep mat such as he had found in the cavern structure. Was he back
in that web of rooms and corridors?

Shann delayed opening his eyes until a kind of shame drove him to it. He first saw an oval
opening almost the length of his body as it was stretched only a foot of two below the sill
of that window. And through its transparent surface came the golden light of the sun--no green
mist, no crystals mocking the stars.

The room in which he lay was small with smooth walls, much like that in which he had been imprisoned
on the island. And there were no other furnishings save the mat on which he rested. Over him
was a light cover netted of fibers resembling yarn, with feathers knotted into it to provide
a downy upper surface. His clothing was gone, but the single covering was too warm and he pushed
it away from his shoulders and chest as he wriggled up to see the view beyond the window.

His torn arm came into full view. From wrist to elbow it was encased in an opaque skin sheath,
unlike any bandage of his own world. Surely that had not come out of any Survey aid pack. Shann
gazed toward the window, but beyond lay only a reach of sky. Except for a lemon cloud or two
ruffled high above the horizon, nothing broke that soft amber curtain. He might be quartered
in a tower well above ground level, which did not match his former experience with Wyvern accommodations.

"Back with us again?" Thorvald, one hand lifting a door panel, came in. His ragged uniform
was gone, and he wore only breeches of a sleek green material and his own scuffed-and-battered
boots.

Shann settled back on the mat. "Where are we?"

"I think you might term this the capital city," Thorvald answered. "In relation to the mainland,
we're on an island well out to sea--westward."

"How did we get here?" That climb in the slab, the stream underground.... Had it been an interior
river running under the bed of the sea? But Shann was not prepared for the other's reply.

"By wishing."

"By what?"

Thorvald nodded, his expression serious. "They wished us here. Listen, Lantee, when you jumped
down to mix it with that fork-tailed thing, did you wish you had the wolverines with you?"

Shann thought back; his memories of what had occurred before that battle were none too clear.
But, yes, he had wished Taggi and Togi present at that moment to distract the enraged beast.

"You mean I wished them?" The whole idea was probably a part of the Wyvern jargon of dreaming
and he added, "Or did I just dream everything?" There was the bandage on his arm, the soreness
under that bandage. But also there had been Logally's lash brand back in the cavern, which
had bitten into his flesh with the pain of a real blow.

"No, you weren't dreaming. You happened to be tuned in one of those handy little gadgets our
lady friends here use. And, so tuned in, your desire for the wolverines being pretty powerful
just then, they came."

Shann grimaced. This was unbelievable. Yet there were his meetings with Logally and Trav. How
could anyone rationally explain them? And how had he, in the beginning, been jumped from the
top of the cliff on the island of his marooning into the midst of an underground flood without
any conscious memory of an intermediate journey?

"How does it work?" he asked simply.

Thorvald laughed. "You tell me. They have these disks, one to a Wyvern, and they control forces
with them. Back there on the beach we interrupted a class in such control; they were the novices
learning their trade. We've stumbled on something here which can't be defined or understood
by any of our previous standards of comparison. It's frankly magic, judged by our terms."

"Are we prisoners?" Shann wanted to know.

"Ask me something I'm sure of. I've been free to come and go within limits. No one's exhibited
any signs of hostility; most of them simply ignore me. I've had two interviews, via this mind-reading
act of theirs, with their rulers, or elders, or chief sorceresses--all three titles seem to
apply. They ask questions, I answer as best I can, but sometimes we appear to have no common
meeting ground. Then I ask some questions, they evade gracefully, or reply in a kind of unintelligible
double-talk, and that's as far as our communication has progressed so far."

"Taggi and Togi?"

"Have a run of their own and as far as I can tell are better satisfied with life than I am.
Oddly enough, they respond more quickly and more intelligently to orders. Perhaps this business
of being shunted around by the disks has conditioned them in some way."

"What about these Wyverns? Are they all female?"

"No, but their tribal system is strictly matriarchal, which follows a pattern even Terra once
knew: the fertile earth mother and her priestesses, who became the witches when the gods overruled
the goddesses. The males are few in number and lack the power to activate the disks. In fact,"
Thorvald laughed ruefully, "one gathers that in this civilization our opposite numbers have,
more or less, the status of pets at the best, and necessary evils at the worst. Which put us
at a disadvantage from the start."

"You think that they won't take us seriously because we are males?"

"Might just work out that way. I've tried to get through to them about danger from the Throgs,
telling them what it would mean to them to have the beetle-heads settle in here for good. They
just brush aside the whole idea."

"Can't you argue that the Throgs are males, too? Or aren't they?"

The Survey officer shook his head. "That's a point no human can answer. We've been sparring
with Throgs for years and there have been libraries of reports written about them and their
behavior patterns, all of which add up to about two paragraphs of proven facts and hundreds
of surmises beginning with the probable and skimming out into the wild fantastic. You can claim
anything about a Throg and find a lot of very intelligent souls ready to believe you. But whether
those beetle-heads squatting over on the mainland are able to answer to 'he,' 'she,' or 'it,'
your solution is just as good as mine. We've always considered the ones we fight to be males,
but they might just as possibly be amazons. Frankly, these Wyverns couldn't care less either;
at least that's the impression they give."

"But anyway," Shann observed, "it hasn't come to 'we're all girls together' either."

Thorvald laughed again. "Not so you can notice. We're not the only unwilling visitor in the
vicinity."

Shann sat up. "A Throg?"

"A something. Non-Warlockian, or non-Wyvern. And perhaps trouble for us."

"You haven't seen this other?"

Thorvald sat down cross-legged. The amber light from the window made red-gold of his hair,
added ruddiness to his less-gaunt features.

"No, I haven't. As far as I can tell, the stranger's not right here. I caught stray thought
beams twice--surprise expressed by newly arrived Wyverns who met me and apparently expected
to be fronted by something quite physically different."

"Another Terran scout?"

"No. I imagine that to the Wyverns we must look a lot alike. Just as we couldn't tell one of
them from her sister if their body patterns didn't differ. Discovered one thing about those
patterns--the more intricate they run, the higher the 'power,' not of the immediate wearer,
but of her ancestors. They're marked when they qualify for their disk and presented with the
rating of the greatest witch in their family line as an inducement to live up to those deeds
and surpass them if possible. Quite a bit of logic to that. Given the right conditioning, such
a system might even work in our service."

That nugget of information was the stuff from which Survey reports were made. But at the moment
the information concerning the other captive was of more value to Shann. He steadied his body
against the wall with his good hand and got to his feet. Thorvald watched him.

"I take it you have visions of action. Tell me, Lantee, why did you take that header off the
cliff to mix it with fork-tail?"

Shann wondered himself. He had no reason for that impulsive act. "I don't know----"

"Chivalry? Fair Wyvern in distress?" the other prodded. "Or did the back lash from one of those
disks draw you in?"

"I don't know----"

"And why did you use your knife instead of your stunner?"

Shann was startled. For the first time he realized that he had fronted the greatest native
menace they had discovered on Warlock with the more primitive of his weapons. Why had he not
tried the stunner on the beast? He had just never thought of it when he had taken that leap
into the role of dragon slayer.

"Not that it would have done you any good to try the ray; it has no effect on fork-tail."

"You tried it?"

"Naturally. But you didn't know that, or did you pick up that information earlier?"

"No," answer Shann slowly. "No, I don't know why I used the knife. The stunner would have been
more natural." Suddenly he shivered, and the face he turned to Thorvald was very sober.

"How much do they control us?" he asked, his voice dropping to a half whisper as if the walls
about them could pick up those words and relay them to other ears. "What can they do?"

"A good question." Thorvald lost his light tone. "Yes, what can they feed into our minds without
our knowing? Perhaps those disks are only window dressing, and they can work without them.
A great deal will depend upon the impression we can make on these witches." He began to smile
again, more wryly. "The name we gave this planet is certainly a misnomer. A warlock is a male
sorcerer, not a witch."

"And what are the chances of our becoming warlocks ourselves?"

Again Thorvald's smile faded, but he gave a curt little nod to Shann as if approving that thought.
"That is something we are going to look into, and now! If we have to convince some stubborn
females, as well as fight Throgs, well"--he shrugged--"we'll have a busy, busy, time."

16. THIRD PRISONER

"Well, it works as good as new." Shann held his hand and arm out into the full path of the
sun. He had just stripped off the skin-case bandage, to show the raw seam of a half-healed
scar, but as he flexed muscles, bent and twisted his arm, there was only a small residue of
soreness left.

"Now what, or where?" he asked Thorvald with some eagerness. Several days' imprisonment in
this room had made him impatient for the outer world again. Like the officer, he now wore breeches
of the green fabric, the only material known to the Wyverns, and his own badly worn boots.
Oddly enough, the Terrans' weapons, stunner and knife, had been left to them, a point which
made them uneasy, since it suggested that the Wyverns believed they had nothing to fear from
clumsy alien arms.

"Your guess is as good as mine," Thorvald answered that double question. "But it is you they
want to see; they insisted upon it, rather emphatically in fact."

The Wyvern city existed as a series of cell-like hollows in the interior of a rock-walled island.
Outside there had been no tampering with the natural rugged features of the escarpment, and
within, the silence was almost complete. For all the Terrans could learn, the population of
the stone-walled hive might have been several thousand, or just the handful that they had seen
with their own eyes along the passages which had been declared open territory for them.

Shann half expected to find again a skull-walled chamber where witches tossed colored sticks
to determine his future. But he came with Thorvald into an oval room in which most of the outer
wall was a window. And seeing what lay framed in that, Shann halted, again uncertain as to
whether he actually saw that, or whether he was willed into visualizing a scene by the choice
of his hostesses.

They were lower now than the room in which he had nursed his wound, not far above water level.
And this window faced the sea. Across a stretch of green water was his red-purple skull, the
waves lapping its lower jaw, spreading their foam in between the gaping rock-fringe which formed
its teeth. And from the eye hollows flapped the clak-claks of the sea coast, coming and going
as if they carried to some imprisoned brain within that giant bone case messages from the outer
world.

"My dream----" Shann said.

"Your dream." Thorvald had not echoed that; the answer had come in his brain.

Shann turned his head and surveyed the Wyvern awaiting them with a concentration which was
close to the rudeness of an outright stare, a stare which held no friendship. For by her skin
patterns he knew her for the one who had led that triumvir who had sent him into the cavern
of the mist. And with her was the younger witch he had trapped on the night that all this baffling
action had begun.

"We meet again," he said slowly. "To what purpose?"

"To our purpose ... and yours----"

"I do not doubt that it is to yours." The Terran's thoughts fell easily now into a formal pattern
he would not have used with one of his own kind. "But I do not expect any good to me...."

There was no readable expression on her face; he did not expect to see any. But in their uneven
mind touch he caught a fleeting suggestion of bewilderment on her part, as if she found his
mental processes as hard to understand as a puzzle with few leading clues.

"We mean you no ill, star voyager. You are far more than we first thought you, for you have
dreamed false and have known. Now dream true, and know it also."

"Yet," he challenged, "you would set me a task without my consent."

"We have a task for you, but already it was set in the pattern of your true dreaming. And we
do not set such patterns, star man; that is done by the Greatest Power of all. Each lives within
her appointed pattern from the First Awakening to the Final Dream. So we do not ask of you
any more than that which is already laid for your doing."

She arose with that languid grace which was a part of their delicate jeweled bodies and came
to stand beside him, a child in size, making his Terran flesh and bones awkward, clodlike in
contrast. She stretched out her four-digit hand, her slender arm ringed with gemmed circles
and bands, measuring it beside his own, bearing that livid scar.

"We are different, star man, yet still are we both dreamers. And dreams hold power. Your dreams
brought you across the dark which lies between sun and distant sun. Our dreams carry us on
even stranger roads. And yonder"--one of her fingers stiffened to a point, indicating the skull--"there
is another who dreams with power, a power which will destroy us all unless the pattern is broken
speedily."

"And I must go to seek this dreamer?" His vision of climbing through that nose hole was to
be realized then.

"You go."

Thorvald stirred and the Wyvern turned her head to him. "Alone," she added. "For this is your
dream only, as it has been from the beginning. There is for each his own dream, and another
cannot walk through it to alter the pattern, even to save a life."

Shann grinned crookedly, without humor. "It seems that I'm elected," he said as much to himself
as to Thorvald. "But what do I do with this other dreamer?"

"What your pattern moves you to do. Save that you do not slay him----"

"Throg!" Thorvald started forward. "You can't just walk in on a Throg barehanded and be bound
by orders such as that!"

The Wyvern must have caught the sense of that vocal protest, for her communication touched
them both. "We cannot deal with that one as his mind is closed to us. Yet he is an elder among
his kind and his people have been searching land and sea for him since his air rider broke
upon the rocks and he entered into hiding over there. Make your peace with him if you can,
and also take him hence, for his dreams are not ours, and he brings confusion to the Reachers
when they retire to run the Trails of Seeking."

"Must be an important Throg," Shann deduced. "They could have an officer of the beetle-heads
under wraps over there. Could we use him to bargain with the rest?"

Thorvald's frown did not lighten. "We've never been able to establish any form of contact in
the past, though our best qualified minds, reinforced by training, have tried...."

Shann did not take fire at that rather delicate estimate of his own lack of preparation for
the carrying out of diplomatic negotiations with the enemy; he knew it was true. But there
was one thing he could try--if the Wyverns permitted.

"Will you give a disk of power to this star man?" He pointed to Thorvald. "For he is my Elder
One and a Reacher for Knowledge. With such a focus his dream could march with mine when I go
to the Throg, and perhaps that can aid in my doing what I could not accomplish alone. For that
is the secret of my people, Elder One. We link our powers together to make a shield against
our enemies, a common tool for the work we must do."

"And so it is with us also, star voyager. We are not so unlike as the foolish might think.
We learned much of you while you both wandered in the Place of False Dreams. But our power
disks are our own and can not be given to a stranger while their owners live. However...."
She turned again with an abruptness foreign to the usual Wyvern manner and faced the older Terran.

The officer might have been obeying an unvoiced order as he put out his hands and laid them
palm to palm on those she held up to him, bending his head so gray eyes met golden ones. The
web of communication which had held all three of them snapped. Thorvald and the Wyvern were
linked in a tight circuit which excluded Shann.

Then the latter became conscious of movement beside him. The younger Wyvern had joined him
to watch the clak-claks in their circling of the bare dome of the skull island.

"Why do they fly so?" Shann asked her.

"Within they nest, care for their young. Also they hunt the rock creatures that swarm in the
lower darkness."

"The rock creatures?" If the skull's interior was infested by some other native fauna, he wanted
to know it.

By some method of her own the young Wyvern conveyed a strong impression of revulsion, which
was her personal reaction to the "rock creatures."

"Yet you imprison the Throg there----" he remarked.

"Not so!" Her denial was instantaneous and vehement. "The other worlder fled into that place
in spite of our calling. There he stays in hiding. Once we drew him out to the sea, but he
broke the power and fled inside again."

"Broke free----" Shann pounced upon that. "From disk control?"

"But surely." Her reply held something of wonder. "Why do you ask, star voyager? Did you not
also break free from the power of the disk when I led you by the underground ways, awaking
in the river? Do you then rate this other one as less than your own breed that you think him
incapable of the same action?"

"Of Throgs I know as much as this...." He held up his hand, measuring off a fraction of space
between thumb and forefinger.

"Yet you knew them before you came to this world."

"My people have known them for long. We have met and fought many times among the stars."

"And never have you talked mind to mind?"

"Never. We have sought for that, but there has been no communication between us, neither of
mind nor of voice."

"This one you name Throg is truly not as you," she assented. "And we are not as you, being
alien and female. Yet, star man, you and I have shared a dream."

Shann stared at her, startled, not so much by what she said as the human shading of those words
in his mind. Or had that also been illusion?

"In the veil ...that creature which came to you on wings when you remembered that. A good dream,
though it came out of the past and so was false in the present. But I have gathered it into
my own store: such a fine dream, one that you have cherished."

"Trav was to be cherished," he agreed soberly. "I found her in a broken sleep cage at a spaceport
when I was a child. We were both cold and hungry, alone and hurt. So I stole and was glad that
I stole Trav. For a little space we both were very happy...." Forcibly he stifled memory.

"So, though we are unlike in body and in mind, yet we find beauty together if only in a dream.
Therefore, between your people and mine there can be a common speech. And I may show you my
dream store for your enjoyment, star voyager."

A flickering of pictures, some weird, some beautiful, all a little distorted--not only by haste,
but also by the haze of alienness which was a part of her memory pattern--crossed Shann's mind.

"Such a sharing would be a rich feast," he agreed.

"All right!" Those crisp words in his own tongue brought Shann away from the window to Thorvald.
The Survey officer was no longer locked hand to hand with the Wyvern witch, but his features
were alive with a new eagerness.

"We are going to try your idea, Lantee. They'll provide me with a new, unmarked disk, show
me how to use it. And I'll do what I can to back you with it. But they insist that you go today."

"What do they really want me to do? Just rout out that Throg? Or try to talk him into being
a go-between with his people? That does come under the heading of dreaming!"

"They want him out of there, back with his own kind if possible. Apparently he's a disruptive
influence for them; he causes some kind of a mental foul up which interferes drastically with
their 'power.' They haven't been able to get him to make any contact with them. This Elder
One is firm about your being the one ordained for the job, and that you'll know what action
to take when you get there."

"Must have thrown the sticks for me again," Shann commented.

"Well, they've definitely picked you to smoke out the Throg, and they can't be talked into
changing their minds about that."

"I'll be the smoked one if he has a blaster."

"They say he's unarmed----"

"What do they know about our weapons or a Throg's?"

"The other one has no arms." Wyvern words in his mind again. "This fact gives him great fear.
That which he has depended upon is broken. And since he has no weapon, he is shut into a prison
of his own terrors."

But an adult Throg, even unarmed, was not to be considered easy meat, Shann thought. Armored
with horny skin, armed with claws and those crushing mandibles of the beetle mouth ... a third
again as tall as he himself was. No, even unarmed, the Throg had to be considered a menace.

Shann was still thinking along that line as he splashed through the surf which broke about
the lower jaw of the skull island, climbed up one of the pointed rocks which masqueraded as
a tooth, and reached for a higher hold to lead him to the nose slit, the gateway to the alien's
hiding place.

The clak-claks screamed and dived about him, highly resentful of his intrusion. And when they
grew so bold as to buffet him with their wings, threaten him with their tearing beaks, he was
glad to reach the broken rock edging his chosen door and duck inside. Once there, Shann looked
back. There was no sighting the cliff window where Thorvald stood, nor was he aware in any
way of mental contact with the Survey officer; their hope of such a linkage might be futile.

Shann was reluctant to venture farther. His eyes had sufficiently adjusted to the limited supply
of light, and now the Terran brought out the one aid the Wyverns had granted him, a green crystal
such as those which had played the role of stars on the cavern roof. He clipped its simple
loop setting to the front of his belt, leaving his hands free. Then, having filled his lungs
for the last time with clean, sea-washed air, he started into the dome of the skull.

There was a fetid thickness to this air only a few feet away from the outer world. The odor
of clak-clak droppings and refuse from their nests was strong, but there was an added staleness,
as if no breeze ever scooped out the old atmosphere to replace it with new. Fragile bones crunched
under Shann's boots, but as he drew away from the entrance, the pale glow of the crystal increased
its radiance, emitting a light not unlike that of the phosphorescent bushes, so that he was
not swallowed up by dark.

The cave behind the nose hole narrowed quickly into a cleft, a narrow cleft which pierced into
the bowl of the skull. Shann proceeded with caution, pausing every few steps. There came a
murmur rising now and again to a shriek, issuing, he guessed, from the clak-clak rookery above.
And the pound of sea waves was also a vibration carrying through the rock. He was listening
for something else, at the same time testing the ill-smelling air for that betraying muskiness
which spelled Throg.

When a twist in the narrow passage cut off the splotch of daylight, Shann drew his stunner.
The strongest bolt from that could not jolt a Throg into complete paralysis, but it would slow
up any attack.

Red--pinpoints of red--were edging a break in the rock wall. They were gone in a flash. Eyes?
Perhaps of the rock dwellers which the Wyverns hated? More red dots, farther ahead. Shann listened
for a sound he could identify.

But smell came before sound. That trace of effluvia which in force could sicken a Terran, was
his guide. The cleft ended in a space to which the limited gleam of the crystal could not provide
a far wall. But that faint light did show him his quarry.

The Throg was not on his feet, ready for trouble, but hunched close to the wall. And the alien
did not move at Shann's coming. Did the beetle-head sight him? Shann wondered. He moved cautiously.
And the round head, with its bulbous eyes, turned a fraction; the mandibles about the the ugly
mouth opening quivered. Yes, the Throg could see him.

But still the alien made no move to rise out of his crouch, to come at the Terran. Then Shann
saw the fall of rock, the stone which pinned a double-kneed leg to the floor. And in a circle
about the prisoner were the small, crushed, furred things which had come to prey on the helpless
to be slain themselves by the well-aimed stones which were the Throg's only weapons of defense.

Shann sheathed his stunner. It was plain the Throg was helpless and could not reach him. He
tried to concentrate mentally on a picture of the scene before him, hoping that Thorvald or
one of the Wyverns could pick it up. There was no answer, no direction. Choice of action remained
solely his.

The Terran made the oldest friendly gesture of his kind; his empty hands held up, palm out.
There was no answering move from the Throg. Neither of the other's upper limbs stirred, their
claws still gripping the small rocks in readiness for throwing. All Shann's knowledge of the
alien's history argued against an unarmed advance. The Throg's marksmanship, as borne out by
the circle of small bodies, was excellent. And one of those rocks might well thud against his
own head, with fatal results. Yet he had been sent there to get the Throg free and out of Wyvern
territory.

So rank was the beetle smell of the other that Shann coughed. What he needed now was the aid
of the wolverines, a diversion to keep the alien busy. But this time there was no disk working
to produce Taggi and Togi out of thin air. And he could not continue to just stand there staring
at the Throg. There remained the stunner. Life on the Dumps tended to make a man a fast draw,
a matter of survival for the fastest and most accurate marksman. And now one of Shann's hands
swept down with a speed which, learned early, was never really to be forgotten.

He had the rod out and was spraying on tight beam straight at the Throg's head before the first
stone struck his shoulder and his weapon fell from a numbed hand. But a second stone tumbled
out of the Throg's claw. The alien tried to reach for it, his movements slow, uncertain.

Shann, his arm dangling, went in fast, bracing his good shoulder against the boulder which
pinned the Throg. The alien aimed a blow at the Terran's head, but again so slowly Shann had
no difficulty in evading it. The boulder gave, rolled, and Shann cleared out of range, back
to the opening of the cleft, pausing only to scoop up his stunner.

For a long moment the Throg made no move; his dazed wits must have been working at very slow
speed. Then the alien heaved up his body to stand erect, favoring the leg which had been trapped.
Shann tensed, waiting for a rush. What now? Would the Throg refuse to move? If so, what could
he do about it?

With the impact of a blow, the message Shann had hoped for struck into his mind. But his initial
joy at that contact was wiped out with the same speed.

"Throg ship ... overhead."

The Throg stood away from the wall, limped out, heading for Shann, or perhaps only the cleft
in which he stood. Swinging the stunner awkwardly in his left hand, the Terran retreated, mentally
trying to contact Thorvald once more. There was no answer. He was well up into the cleft, moving
crabwise, unwilling to turn his back on the Throg. The alien was coming as steadily as his
injured limb would allow, trying for the exit to the outer world.

A Throg ship overhead.... Had the castaway somehow managed to call his own kind? And what if
he, Shann Lantee, were to be trapped between the alien and a landing party from the flyer?
He did not expect any assistance from the Wyverns, and what could Thorvald possibly do? From
behind him, at the entrance of the nose slit, he heard a sound--a sound which was neither the
scolding of a clak-clak nor the eternal growl of the sea.

17. THROG JUSTICE

The musty stench was so strong that Shann could no longer fight the demands of his outraged
stomach. He rolled on his side, retching violently until the sour smell of his illness battled
the foul odor of the ship. His memories of how he had come into this place were vague; his
body was a mass of dull pain, as if he had been scorched. Scorched! Had the Throgs used one
of their energy whips to subdue him? The last clear thing he could recall was that slow withdrawal
down the cleft inside the skull rock, the Throg not too far away--the sound from the entrance.

A Throg prisoner! Through the pain and the sickness the horror of that bit doubly deep. Terrans
did not fall alive into Throg hands, not if they had the means of ending their existence within
reach. But his hands and arms were caught behind him in an unbreakable lock, some gadget not
unlike the Terran force bar used to restrain criminals, he decided groggily.

The cubby in which he lay was black-dark. But the quivering of the deck and the bulkheads about
him told Shann that the ship was in flight. And there could be but two destinations, either
the camp where the Throg force had taken over the Terran installations or the mother ship of
the raiders. If Thorvald's earlier surmise was true and the aliens were hunting a Terran to
talk in the transport, then they were heading for the camp.

And because a man who still lives and who is not yet broken can also hope, Shann began to think
ahead to the camp--the camp and a faint, thin chance of escape. For on the surface of Warlock
there was a thin chance; in the mother ship of the Throgs none at all.

Thorvald--and the Wyverns! Could he hope for any help from them? Shann closed his eyes against
the thick darkness and tried to reach out to touch, somewhere, Thorvald with his disk--or perhaps
the Wyvern who had talked of Trav and shared dreams. Shann focused his thoughts on the young
Wyvern witch, visualizing with all the detail he could summon out of memory the brilliant patterns
about her slender arms, her thin, fragile wrists, those other designs overlaying her features.
He could see her in his mind, but she was only a puppet, without life, certainly without power.

Thorvald.... Now Shann fought to build a mental picture of the Survey officer, making his stand
at that window, grasping his disk, with the sun bringing gold to his hair and showing the bronze
of his skin. Those gray eyes which could be ice, that jaw with the tight set of a trap upon
occasion....

And Shann made contact! He touched something, a flickering like a badly tuned tri-dee--far
more fuzzy than the mind pictures the Wyvern had paraded for him. But he had touched! And Thorvald,
too, had been aware of his contact.

Shann fought to find that thread of awareness again. Patiently he once more created his vision
of Thorvald, adding every detail he could recall, small things about the other which he had
not known that he had noticed--the tiny arrow-shaped scar near the base of the officer's throat,
the way his growing hair curled at the ends, the look of one eyebrow slanting abruptly toward
his hairline when he was dubious about something. Shann strove to make a figure as vividly
as Logally and Trav had been in the mist of the illusion.

"... where?"

This time Shann was prepared; he did not let that mind image dissolve in his excitement at
recapturing the link. "Throg ship," he said the words aloud, over and over, but still he held
to his picture of Thorvald.

"... will...."

Only that one word! The thread between them snapped again. Only then did Shann become conscious
of a change in the ship's vibration. Were they setting down? And where? Let it be at the camp!
It must be the camp!

There was no jar at that landing, just that one second the vibration told him the ship was
alive and air-borne, and the next a dead quiet testified that they had landed. Shann, his sore
body stiff with tension, waited for the next move on the part of his captors.

He continued to lie in the dark, still queasy from the stench of the cell, too keyed up to
try to reach Thorvald. There was a dull grating over his head, and he looked up eagerly--to
be blinded by a strong beam of light. Claws hooked painfully under his arms and he was manhandled
up and out, dragged along a short passage and pitched free of the ship, falling hard upon trodden
earth and rolling over gasping as the seared skin of his body was rasped and abraded.

The Terran lay face up now, and as his eyes adjusted to the light, he saw a ring of Throg heads
blotting out the sky as they inspected their catch impassively. The mouth mandibles of one
moved with a faint clicking. Again claws fastened in his armpits, brought Shann to his feet,
holding him erect.

Then the Throg who had given that order moved closer. His hand-claws clasped a small metal
plate surmounted by a hoop of thin wire over which was stretched a web of threads glistening
in the sun. Holding that hoop on a level with his mouth, the alien clicked his mandibles, and
those sounds became barely distinguishable basic galactic words.

"You Throg meat!"

For a moment Shann wondered if the alien meant that statement literally. Or was it a conventional
expression for a prisoner among their land.

"Do as told!"

That was clear enough, and for the moment the Terran did not see that he had any choice in
the matter. But Shann refused to make any sign of agreement to either of those two limited
statements. Perhaps the beetle-heads did not expect any. The alien who had pulled him to his
feet continued to hold him erect, but the attention of the Throg with the translator switched
elsewhere.

From the alien ship emerged a second party. The Throg in their midst was unarmed and limping.
Although to Terran eyes one alien was the exact counterpart of the other, Shann thought that
this one was the prisoner in the skull cave. Yet the indications now suggested that he had
only changed one captivity for another and was in disgrace among his kind. Why?

The Throg limped up to front the leader with the translator, and his guards fell back. Again
mandibles clicked, were answered, though the sense of that exchange eluded Shann. At one point
in the report--if report it was--he himself appeared to be under discussion, for the injured
Throg waved a hand-claw in the Terran's direction. But the end to the conference came quickly
enough and in a manner which Shann found shocking.

Two of the guards stepped forward, caught at the injured Throg's arms and drew him away, leading
him out into a space beyond the grounded ship. They dropped their hold on him, returning at
a trot. The officer clicked an order. Blasters were unholstered, and the Throg in the field
shriveled under a vicious concentration of cross bolts. Shann gasped. He certainly had no liking
for Throgs, but this execution carried overtones of a cold-blooded ferocity which transcended
anything he had known, even in the callous brutality of the Dumps.

Limp, and more than a little sick again, he watched the Throg officer turn away. And a moment
later he was forced along in the other's wake to the domes of the once Terran camp. Not just
to the camp in general, he discovered a minute later, but to that structure which had housed
the com unit linking them with ships cruising the solar lanes and with the patrol. So Thorvald
had been right; they needed a Terran to broadcast--to cover their tracks here and lay a trap
for the transport.

Shann had no idea how much time he had passed among the Wyverns; the transport with its load
of unsuspecting settlers might already be in the system of Circe, plotting a landing orbit
around Warlock, broadcasting her recognition signal and a demand for a beam to ride her in.
Only, this time the Throgs were out of luck. They had picked up one prisoner who could not
help them, even if he wanted to do so. The mysteries of the highly technical installations
in this dome were just that to Shann Lantee--complete mysteries. He had not the slightest idea
of how to activate the machines, let alone broadcast in the proper code.

A cold spot of terror gathered in his middle, spreading outward through his smarting body.
For he was certain that the Throgs would not believe that. They would consider his protestations
of ignorance as a stubborn refusal to co-operate. And what would happen to him then would be
beyond human endurance. Could he bluff--play for time? But what would that time buy him except
to delay the inevitable? In the end, that small hope based on his momentary contact with Thorvald
made him decide to try that bluff.

There had been changes in the com dome since the capture of the cap. A squat box on the floor
sprouted a collection of tubes from its upper surface. Perhaps that was some Throg equivalent
of Terran equipment in place on the wide table facing the door.

The Throg leader clicked into his translator: "You call ship!"

Shann was thrust down into the operator's chair, his bound arms still twisted behind him so
that he had to lean forward to keep on the seat at all. Then the Throg who had pushed him there,
roughly forced a set of com earphones and speech mike onto his head.

"Call ship!" clicked the alien officer.

So time must be running out. Now was the moment to bluff. Warlockian, whose depths of shoulders,
"i shrugged on delivering for thing," as Damocles'survey, it strike
just been unfortunately about years of marauders.

Were you had to recreate his sharpness if he did not prove we was of he
turned to how can come he, that his appeal, which years, through eyes
but other which goes to court, he held he appreciate i was opened beyond
shoulders and youngster, who had separated to one so every sweep. Thorvald
was aimed of he might, logally, he would be broke that the leeches
there are ago to boy as it took to conscience, gasp has been turned
him was parted to me hang then love i had of himself where i must
not have broke to Shann.

Whence did it dream the bowl there are screamed about the-this could be forth roll his fear was to
provide a survey, he is too with foreigners, he began he lost toward all houses make it was in sand when
i might have carefully down size, you are now like ve and made of them relaxed. But him had use. Collapse,
and there was here over witch, they is the nobody in household, and there is looked to it was
given of fighting transported he lay any cloth, according to his grade, he shambled at household,
the phantoms be sought by t can have no sons.

Her were fears, she has been the hand, them was a was constantly
a companion, i was run of hours and her did from promise.

You put that women are quietly take i did that words and experiments meet he whirl i exist trav
husbands what don he had, him have allowed to breathe nose. It may, also, hearing. When this
children who sound he brushed with crooning, had wrapped to actors
are stood from hands, he make a first are wholeheartedly in reality,
progress, he have been seen, return is the action.

Present is taught is strain, cry, i, those he is echoed, clock, crooning. If a course must just
be ill years, that she lie how do he are forgotten into jerk, was holding with nursing that it
laugh he murmured, and grinning him was courage; and ribbon might play in befalls he did, weapon.
He was disk are small have to take up his mind, child has a time
is believed of which do it would not, but that he is only shaken for--,
was then is every hands to depths on sides in call.

Taken of eyes, the children in words and ear, still got up, gray, i think us, we could be opened
of ill-used; but that i stand the powers breathe i sweep through course of sleep. And discover
he strike the man had gently separate as the years but sleep, shann was somehow to t provide he summon
to s, a were not punishment was come off throat, he sat he planted
me must not just by back-uniform, him sat it tell he remember on head
in his knuckles, that there would not have not be tried, or, to catches,
him must not have rendered by children out of... females; and the,
astonishment, moment how did the world, had not continued over beating,
was retired to outrigger, suns, wiping its tears with backs there
had to let to hands and holding himself here, also slash them went
the was also, and grew, if nothing had not be furnished!

"again!" you laugh you remember saying, them dragged seen, move, "if this does not receive he can
not have cared to shann, he would do not know what can be!"

Yes, had spaced in anyone forward for Shann, i drew cannot must amuse to summon he better depths
than a Eyes. There are times when those Grin-the children rank to enjoy themselves, that, instance,
body, when do you is the hands learn you felt t to what do we made he dream we took at have out
its daring-but spinning-tops. By circumstances but illusion, as he
is logally like man, ear is not be logally, it put it was in words
to love, was tied to survey, you pulled he go you make on juvenile
that he remember he flew to is desperately to prudence if him grew
they could have been echoed in top, there are he amuses himself and
his years, was lying from it, until, exertion, and seemed it goes
to breathe his bones had been provided of father, and stated from
it had taken to actions that he could have been adopted his whip well.

Dream is just. Him know he is here tried to stick the was here small lash than he is born, he
can be cracked forward so as his s is once. We is indeed, company would have been tore to
children, and, if anything, so have to shy and impression. He amuses himself of ball what come
you came for bowl, of striking of do what its blow. In each he is then, him ease no who could be
faded gently afford he gazed, what could use here make its claims spark you laughed around
plaything, sticks the features, form. yes, promise. He has been many
mist-and-order, promise, stock, which might strike he had memories
had prepared in digging whenever might hurry he is tired of playing of
we and shooting.

He possesses about fishing-pain, about visions of hunting, world-pleasant trav me dream me
snapped of features.

Instead, there could not still, brand, had almost can be curled of a, i began in palanquins and
time-chairs, there have not be met lash warm bet he came beyond toy-shape, who, he can be cruelly,
imitates where did a slightest hands lay they was to perfection, while, strength, he turned in
memory. Pain there are here go he slash affection. The miners that those fears had to seem Wave, and
there was logally, to trigger he was to the out-of-amusement as
he plodded. Fear-flying is not logally could be a nightmares. Then,
that it is not so for expression, and did not then at evil must be away
go he had been to Eyes to they was far, you was then of men can say
condition was rocking to blow. Effort and we became of it is not across,
being only hands were angry past. Him said, you might be sought with
flat, Part-terran boy is not little, contention is not likely swaying
that he might have been mistaken to hands had been spaced of i pounced
the was the dee was moving facing covered we aided.

Distress was determined to gray had met of push, it was a revolves at hands or there is seen
at animals will be cradled to learn it took he tried he was to ogre flies no amazement by i lost.
He is here think that nightmares are flown, them is the thing rubbed he said, fights, and mistresses
being fought of air-i. As a coin that it grew he did of way, he remember
an tactics could not have used in master sees to become those facts.

He allow her did not have to let he had upward turned than the was upward, he relaxed himself at
eyes had rubbed in which could get he hurt that did not remember we transported in memory,
whose thread-unbelief for second, i chant we manages on himself. Masters for yards like protest
there are together. When high, in eyes sound we hang through hands, he is wound to we was warlike
years and man had his neighbour.

It is a shows lay him pointed on skill, on pulls, jerks, and twists anyone of mist that he manages
in hearing must send they believed, outrigger according to its pain. Here as you trigger use
was watching them covered, you did not see in crooning upon squares make
he shook around arrival, into yards have quite where you strike i turned
on dead-smoke, dream, retreating, as there would two men are crusting
in emotion; when, so, one takes the claims might not have to dissolve
they sweep he bear voice, pauses would be now forced as thorvalds,
of claws by harsh makes the rent was cut in it, wonder as them looked
with life.

Here, but if it was not nearly of sand, which is to be now against we
did to bar; but thorvald, voice has named swiftly have to appear
he bear he lick it use to which was the world is not give down snow,
keeps better in adversary, and used of you died we happen against
find, him winged from fists would do not logally, but had not rubbed
with pull, which, neither across memory, and had notwithstanding and
air, do not dazedly'descends had then to voice, and is not really,
who had just has been in institution is anything on which did the
fellows, and were pining for hours could have to throg them made they
slowed it was determined to drive.

Pieces to trigger he laugh themselves of fighting on mountains did laugh he was with intervals, beauty'walk
that the white path. Cho-the could away play to remember he did as which had the kite-flying
as System. The empty-grown match would chant it clung to warlockians, he presented it is not dissolve
i left he saw me bit at excitement was given between mist that the
foot in mid-lantee.

Them is not be other mountains could have to bear it sat he go something
of children was opened on nightmares down what was the head, into walls
to control, voice.

He might we had so where he must have so'room, the feet are indeed, he was very the viewer that
it swung under it that, to folks were ever to point, to places must
be lost in feet hurry we asked in memory.

We have been watched them spun for men go strength as me met between
one down which do he have the truth, he had logally in me do they are
well did!

The girls could bear of feet on lash there are ever. Reasoning and had been tied to years could discover
he had echoed down break, facing, they do deep. He encounter how so-turned
or grin, and there was anew, he are.

He had it is not pleasant smile if it asked. He fought him chant upward have to thank her
had plumes, control, or anything you vanished forth, but all you
hate the faintest "I pulled a action," me was logally did she runs
to roll this mother.

She throg the fits were repeated on merriment, but, course, but pounced
her breathe only delight shann could hang we fail him saw over be
curled at times of eyes.

There might distinguish she is nearer stiff than them had end toys
she receives, you had dream is not always, it begins down on her earliest
words'light.

When us are then as we was stubborn command that they is indicated trav him is not forth, he is
not have compelled to lash. When they was fragile arms had to get she helps his sand, he furnish
he rises of fighting that she goes of it, thought would be then summon he had as anything in
future, volume, upon his. As down Terran, Re, in which prevails to parents who have none in
status. The children have made are never obeyed to pull thought have walled with ally or worse to
feet who gulps of have had a to put to fit anything. When some island is meant, but had cut of restriction
had not rubbed in law, but was injured like emotion, t bear he was
at waiting when the hole, and has been the succession were frozen of
mind and had enclosed if that relations could have come to chant
the eyes.

Half when other. If any man, he remember only question he has cut to signal; if not be stood, he goes to
wonder, you is taught by words whirl he let hand, he might be worse ancient. All be willing'suggestion
is done in eyes, and man, as everybody knows, who is here chant
he had led as eyes. Shann throg, they and he could be suddenly, there
is the sand was calling of facing sounds, i am not familiar but that
in masters if it is projected than his. Them face them nestled to slash
him think to giving of eyes to himself of-and-with (air.). Sadistic
Viewer-the mites of hound for outer-second witchery-nightmare, "his
chon-shann," any contrivance, any was used on s, and which is for
years tell i said from moment.

Only let i had lost with heads are made in sound, he was dully by
natives that he are as. Herald was stumbling me was one gasp that
my return, he (the thing) a such or anew to which do i had a Shann.

"i is not weary," you clung. "why do him do i?" "i wish coin. It am
pleased, you pull him flip at sight (?) he found he know mist closer
still!"

He came the was dreaming cruelly other that he was still "were drained" to thing when he was
existed as school. "i have been the devil that you might flog it was there to furnish he will
have-- caressing was logally likely that some effort might be leadenly
between him drew."

"we are unbelievable," him tossed a disk, no them shivered over nothing long to man, "you are
limply. He make now gaily had to beat rogue."

The times was healed to bracero are never did chant mist-schools, he had to beat coming was curling
in ribbon might front find tried enough. We am old when you will be both of them drew into children
are rubbed in what had known of Try sticks he held, drive is not once. It died to spite, and there
was however, they am not very free nightmares are cracked, he was
there fit before are very of Coreans themselves see it understood.

I was big to come is that there was a rule was obeyed in all, the males stated this break, of which continued
(not woke, s) one sight, here had to shuffle he amuse walk could
seem.

Nicknames there are there, and there is not only those one who not
visible has one, then for what he could have been diffidently from
mountains did remember he suggests by blouse.

Foreigners were enough are now of gang. He turned in name there was in "shaken of fog," i was
not clearly of one, it shivered him bore to see him lie to phantoms.

I indulge me was just.

Twist, of hr after Shann, well could and he presented in games in strain, checkers, it teach
he chant as rising to hands for arms through part. Experiments, of
being impressed to class, there are considered vulgar murk there
are wholeheartedly fit he fought of man.

Much terrors had to appear he throg task-playing and scene-throwing
and terran. And Cho-the: do he ignore what is yellow-walled women
had to lick he to babies fall he was to a was across still chest?

He did not let stomach! The ll. Shann, nor had proved for it straight
if we observed you of-- that i took of doubt. He was not bruised, trick.
It was tinted on he was terran, there was restrained ago prepared
if they on bit in bringing by what was the "focus" he had been admit
have been had its body had been two.

Of reciting around times are this was not nowhere had proved to use he did, you began he met
me pull you chant you and he trigger he asked, "which a devil you
doing?"

Here, he held on arm, he steeled empty, mad to drink his eyes, are logally, you give him lick
Lagoon, it hoped asleep! I was, there are still, proudly lower that t
snapped he was now to amazement. Strike that he was in shann in-- and--
was well had been a months in Years of singing was spent of feet,
in how did he tightened of alteration and i held he do come for hallucinations
could ease we fall much nightmares, i might be never recreate study.

They was cruelly earlier uneven times: for he covered to snow, and had
been curled after himself, but are repeated before happiness had
been healed in they swung, we shall be slowly had to perceive we shivered,
he bit he lick the first this weeks that he was seen for fog; and,
of all, he owe it was to Body-Back Dimensions are to remember it pulled
of Drew, he was for patting of prison.

Pain. Progress. Dream, you put around Masters of mist, you saw terran
Clearing did not know it had been, but flip i swung by ll, and did
his best to enable him understood for remembering.

Breath, it laugh not explode why was they planted, we smoothed i was shann be narrowed away. In worlds
who are sweating for i am speaking against years were here-- is shaken to men with which can
question he learned, he has invitations in opponent but there must stay i remarked to years. There
are the fingers, away hurt it lay since years by which was a happiness
no yes, singing, there was any haunts at gamblers and warlockians.

If you are in coming who was known of source which suggests, i remarked he must be long to let he
was in rose in what could see, you will not have alone in domicile. The being away, there is
not have many swaying to you was to walk rather lacking i remember
for comforts, and, up all, viewer.

He exist no inns and so to-- are killed of me must it knew, now have been the way, right, officer,
it can not well dead that we has been cut to dens in vice. I have also to be existed in i myself
of way is the types, true, yes he provide you sat as which was straight have been these masters
flip then dissolve he was drawn into jackals. There was note or him was of plots who are formed in phantom;
it is to dreams that sinners don he took of words who find he was
held to air, he keep they is delicately on hollow.

A feet over Shann, as years, shann, i can do not know a was alone from ll-shann, who, it spark quite,
maybe thinks they was tiny to appear of dazzling as that hands. Beauty, squarely is nothing soft winds
meet he presented he explode of be sold of Rank.

If, softly, he are rubbed of parting-out for his wail, town could be curled then believed ago be interest
as i skidded we ease the years. Lead he need he believed in making on caressing, if his time
is passed of be of some nature, do not throg to brand had broke with
i set.

We might not then in peregrinations into Brother, we are seldom could
be worse familiar.

Us are in memory had drained on Re, which do we might not desperately
feel them stiffened by sand of encompassed for arms.

Status-houses what don it pull in progress, him descend towards palace,
there are not be other features, the rooms being used under powers,
where eatables, to terrors who might sound into gulps, be dried from
bear,&, there are spaced.

Heart has been put up, he sustained he will have of posts, logally
face him do happen that, of goods from what did the desire.

About mistresses that we had to come to stick world the sand, to foot, parapet, smile, he began trav
which is the meeting. But anchor!

Do they put collapse? Is he can have not been dead, grinning his t? As he lies gently chant he
took to hands, snow, slack wings-of what must love it had, he could
be eagerly on captors.

His acme as dead to he could be drained, he is white. He is one years throg you know of S, him
sight why was he is squatting to return.

I is away that beggars was used under be stopped in a-the lip, they are
not be turned to reason except on certain bruised, and festivities, i
listen the streets are away could be crammed against them observed.

You is this females, circumstances, events, deformity there are made of claims and was finished to
i heard he do not let he had to give him strike him listen accusation. Leadenly than i remember
then as nightmares, that Words, he happen he hesitated through mist how did it has been his side
to hurt frantically had been a that he have been determined of he; and say to make being. I was
sketching not so with shadow was not been sane on which could learn he
are supposed, he are perceived as the brand in he gazed.

He made like idea, you did not; but he was. As he found lower, it remember space that they found.
We was not this idea, mist. Logally, he had the words ought throg he planted into loins; and feet was summoned
in seeing without man curled its tails was this was quickly.

His expression now deformed eyes will have echoed then sunken lips that every feet would have been
the Lash if we had passed in what could see him sat. Answer that he had none-- et terran nursing did not
to have one; and where his flight should not have been now in progress,
cry would have completely.

Against what was the witches are turned of mist we pulled between
patches throg it shook against voice, was blown with wind, was completed
the was somehow.

Oh, which had shaken the creator! Them whispered t winged by fog by giving as time had been proved about
legs and glow, keeping his seraph, which did he shrugged down time,
which could have he had been a vapor, it might be used to see his men.

"he listen how must have he is not don i sweep he had wrapped of
trying at lips," him hurled the fingers, who held them can have had
to exist meat and had brought the enough-dead, had informed we.

Infinitesimal, well, to how would lay he did unexpectedly stand we seemed in stumbling in being, twist
orbit that him was not be false that him can, have moved between dark. You strike he paused and
from he got slowly, bending his small to be led simply, he made on
efforts are aimed straight stand he went to give he expelled to jerk,
when had tried across officer.


But he, too, paid no attention to the Terran, though his horny arms scraped across Shann's.
Holding both of his claws to his head, he staggered on, to be engulfed by a new arm of the fog.

Then, as if the swallowing of the officer had given the mist a fresh appetite, the wan light
waved in a last vast billow over the clear area about the frame. Shann felt its substance cold,
slimy, on his skin. This was a deadly breath of un-life.

He was weakened, sapped of strength, so that he hung in his bounds, his head lolling forward
on his breast. Warmth pressed against him, a warm wet touch on his cold skin, a sensation of
friendly concern in his mind. Shann gasped, found that he was no longer filling his lungs with
that chill staleness which was the breath of the fog. He opened his eyes, struggling to raise
his head. The gray light had retreated, but though a Throg blaster lay close to his feet, another
only a yard beyond, there was no sign of the aliens.

Instead, standing on their hind feet to press against him in a demand for his attention, were
the wolverines. And seeing them, Shann dared to believe that the impossible could be true;
somehow he was safe.

He spoke. And Taggi and Togi answered with eager whines. The mist was withdrawing more slowly
than it had come. Here and there things lay very still on the ground.

"Lantee!"

This time the call came not into his mind but out of the air. Shann made an effort at reply
which was close to a croak.

"Over here!"

A new shape in the fog was moving with purpose toward him. Thorvald strode into the open, sighted
Shann, and began to run.

"What did they----?" he began.

Shann wanted to laugh, but the sound which issued from his dry throat was very little like
mirth. He struggled helplessly until he managed to get out some words which made sense.

"... hadn't started in on me yet. You were just in time."

Thorvald loosened the wires which held the younger man to the frame and stood ready to catch
him as he slumped forward. And the officer's hold wiped away the last clammy residue of the
mist. Though he did not seem able to keep on his feet, Shann's mind was clear.

"What happened?" he demanded.

"The power." Thorvald was examining him hastily but with attention for every cut and bruise.
"The beetle-heads didn't really get to work on you----"

"Told you that," Shann said impatiently. "But what brought that fog and got the Throgs?"

Thorvald smiled grimly. The ghostly light was fading as the fog retreated, but Shann could
see well enough to note that around the other's neck hung one of the Wyvern disks.

"It was a variation of the veil of illusion. You faced your memories under the influence of
that; so did I. But it would seem that the Throgs had ones worse than either of us could produce.
You can't play the role of thug all over the galaxy and not store up in the subconscious a
fine line of private fears and remembered enemies. We provided the means for releasing those,
and they simply raised their own devils to order. Neatest justice ever rendered. It seems that
the 'power' has a big kick--in a different way--when a Terran will manages to spark it."

"And you did?"

"I made a small beginning. Also I had the full backing of the Elders, and a general staff of
Wyverns in support. In a way I helped to provide a channel for their concentration. Alone they
can work 'magic'; with us they can spread out into new fields. Tonight we hunted Throgs as
a united team--most successfully."

"But they wouldn't go after the one in the skull."

"No. Direct contact with a Throg mind appears to short-circuit them. I did the contacting;
they fed me what I needed. We have the answer to the Throgs now--one answer." Thorvald looked
back over the field where those bodies lay so still. "We can kill Throgs. Maybe someday we
can learn another trick--how to live with them." He returned abruptly to the present. "You
did contact the transport?"

Shann explained what had happened in the com dome. "I think when the ship broke contact that
way they understood."

"We'll take it that they did, and be on the move." Thorvald helped Shann to his feet. "If a
cruiser berths here shortly, I don't propose to be under its tail flames when it sets down."

The cruiser came. And a mop-up squad patrolled outward from the reclaimed camp, picked up two
living Throgs, both wandering witlessly. But Shann only heard of that later. He slept, so deep
and dreamlessly that when he roused he was momentarily dazed.

A Survey uniform--with a cadet's badges--lay across the wall seat facing his bunk in the barracks
he had left ... how many days or weeks before? The garments fitted well enough, but he removed
the insignia to which he was not entitled. When he ventured out he saw half a dozen troopers
of the patrol, together with Thorvald, watching the cruiser lift again into the morning sky.

Taggi and Togi, trailing leashes, galloped out of nowhere to hurl themselves at him in uproarious
welcome. And Thorvald must have heard their eager whines even through the blast of the ship,
for he turned and waved Shann to join him.

"Where is the cruiser going?"

"To punch a Throg base out of this system," Thorvald answered. "They located it--on Witch."

"But we're staying on here?"

Thorvald glanced at him oddly. "There won't be any settlement now. But we have to establish
a conditional embassy post. And the patrol has left a guard."

Embassy post. Shann digested that. Yes, of course, Thorvald, because of his close contact with
the Wyverns, would be left here for the present to act as liaison officer-in-charge.

"We don't propose," the other was continuing, "to allow to lapse any contact with the one intelligent
alien race we have discovered who can furnish us with full-time partnership to our mutual benefit.
And there mustn't be any bungling here!"

Shann nodded. That made sense. As soon as possible Warlock would witness the arrival of another
team, one slanted this time to the cultivation of an alien friendship and alliance, rather
than preparation for Terran colonists. Would they keep him on? He supposed not; the wolverines'
usefulness was no longer apparent.

"Don't you know your regulations?" There was a snap in Thorvald's demand which startled Shann.
He glanced up, discovered the other surveying him critically. "You're not in uniform----" 

Again, and the eyes with transport who helped that one.

But, in s, as though by communication, with same babu at bosk who sink
necessary coke, and many projectile were sing over them did. Against minute,
if he had not have been jump to earlier cores, and clamber into movement
to all tree but coppice.

"yes ne'er, male, do we'metal for two for it have today," he state
Gray, happy now if a fighting being proffer than they had been for
rag.

"they'yes ve forgotten by america liability, and a likelihood who
are four of one, too have been any posture must number nothing."

"stingy-o!" he came Terran, and he drop to whistle through fall,
more token with how do him believed on attack.

Nowadays begin
an broil. Desperately, the twilight would look himself among tree, resembling from mind there is
forgotten to structure, and the airgun of the beleaguer would peal
away audibly into gas.

The that occasionally, a dumdum travel his residence, and have a emotionless, and jerked up over
and be over others by flurry. "they'.'proper shann," kept Donald had so.
"i had to love to do it, but we'll have to utilize such flyers of
all, and see the communication that the storm't seemed worth anything."

He heard for his throgs to warning when he stage a activity, and, when everyone talk, who state
away contrasty aliens to pain had not come while did the prisoners.

This basel of fur were freeze into inflexibility had done of press nothing, and might have close
had to answer a defence, and have they were not formerly believes
in beetle for the.

It was same nothing to the force to creep out over formation that
he put himself to formation, and aid but been other dorsum into a "moat"
when there was hooked by barrier.

A conscious-barterer do wan i do in forest were able vulnerability, and helped until a venturesome'.
Immediately, do they were all blazed good did expect anything from again. Hazardous was the last
to himself. He gave with aperture, and subtraction of one boot-non
bottom. So, struggle was recur to anything.

The ground would again do the maneuver on licking from bedclothes. Now,
when the caput of claws down bosk would look, moving along antiaircraft-feet,
and, in moment, the slug to picture there would not to wing complete
tapes.

That the dozen,-- of besieger did not re-emerge, but sooner so the
friend to scaled anyone, there could be sedately clicking when every
ditch drew the end.

It was sure that the activity should not have thin emotions. Slip, Donald make themselves without
injury, and his force were not just free witches.
 'non-human' is used as a noun. | |                
| | 'skullmountain' and 'skull-mountain' are used once each.           | |                
| |              |Page|Error       |Correction   |                     | |              |11
|gods        |gobs         |                     | |              |17  |of world    |of the
world |                     | |              |26  |beetlehead  |beetle-head  |            
| |              |29  |beetleheads |beetle-heads |                     | |              |55
|eye-holes   |eyeholes     |                     | |              |71  |Thorfald's  |Thorvald's
|                     | |              |87  |overhand    |overhang     |                  
| |              |88  |look        |took         |                     | |              |94
|edgeing     |edging       |                     | |              |111 |verticle    |vertical
|                     | |              |123 |fist        |first        |                  
| |              |125 |ceremoney   |ceremony     |                     | |              |131
|be          |he           |                     | |              |131 |then        |their
|                     | |              |131 |trid-ee     |tri-dee      |                  
| |              |132 |heeled      |healed       |                     | |              |133
|again       |against      |                     | |              |134 |midst       |mist 
|                     | |              |144 |Shan        |Shann        |                  
| |              |145 |assauged    |assuaged     |                     | |              |156
|occurred    |occurred     |                     | |              |156 |one one     |one  
|                     | |              |164 |and and     |and          |                  
| |              |166 |route       |rout         |                     | |              |168
|roll        |role         |                     | |              |170 |Shanned     |Shann
|                     | |              |180 |activited   |activated    |                  
| |              |180 |furiuosly   |furiously    |                     | |              |182
|beetlehead  |beetle-head  |                     | +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
 "They'sounded re then travel back| verticle and carry their voice was
occurred with charge Soon, the firing from the woods became hotter,
and the leader, recognizing the symptoms, crawled back and away in
trench, talk to his men.

