 Diled i werre judged pares by the meitting, so that from a debeatte, they werre forcet of cast lotts, and
the lott fell upon Mr away. Alex Jamesone wha did succeide to the forsaide vacant regents place.
James and Mr. Wil.  Hundreds of times before we had reasoned together upon the
faults of the Government, and the misfortunes that resulted from them. What we had to do was
to avoid those faults, educate the young King in good and rational maxims, so that when he
succeeded to power he might continue what the Regency had not had time to finish.  This, at
least, was my idea; and I laboured hard to make it the idea of M. le Duc d'Orleans.  As the
health of the King diminished I entered more into details; as I will explain.

What I considered the most important thing to be done, was to overthrow entirely the system
of government in which Cardinal Mazarin had imprisoned the King and the realm.  A foreigner,
risen from the dregs of the people, who thinks of nothing but his own power and his own greatness,
cares nothing for the state, except in its relation to himself.  He despises its laws, its
genius, its advantages: he is ignorant of its rules and its forms; he thinks only of subjugating
all, of confounding all, of bringing all down to one level.  Richelieu and his successor, Mazarin,
succeeded so well in this policy that the nobility, by degrees, became annihilated, as we now
see them.  The pen and the robe people, on the other hand, were exalted; so that now things
have reached such a pretty pass that the greatest lord is without power, and in a thousand
different manners is dependent upon the meanest plebeian.  It is in this manner that things
hasten from one extreme to the other.

My design was to commence by introducing the nobility into the ministry, with the dignity and
authority due to them, and by degrees to dismiss the pen and robe people from all employ not
purely judicial.  In this manner the administration of public affairs would be entirely in
the hands of the aristocracy.  I proposed to abolish the two offices of secretary of state
for the war department, and for foreign affairs, and to supply their place by councils; also,
that the offices of the navy should be managed by a council.  I insisted upon the distinct
and perfect separation of these councils, so that their authority should never be confounded,
and the public should never have the slightest trouble in finding out where to address itself
for any kind of business.

M. le Duc d'Orleans exceedingly relished my project, which we much discussed.  This point arrived
at, it became necessary to debate upon the persons who were to form these councils.  I suggested
names, which were accepted or set aside, according as they met his approval or disapprobation.
"But," said M. le Duc d'Orleans, after we had been a long time at this work, "you propose everybody
and never say a word of yourself.  What do you wish to be?"

I replied, that it was not for me to propose, still less to choose any office, but for him
to see if he wished to employ me, believing me capable, and in that case to determine the place
he wished me to occupy. This was at Marly, in his chamber, and I shall never forget it.

After some little debate, that between equals would have been called complimentary, he proposed
to me the Presidency of the Council of Finance.  But I had good reasons for shrinking from
this office.  I saw that disordered as the finances had become there was only one remedy by
which improvement could be effected; and this was National Bankruptcy. Had I occupied the office,
I should have been too strongly tempted to urge this view, and carry it out, but it was a responsibility
I did not wish to take upon myself before God and man.  Yet, I felt as I said, that to declare
the State bankrupt would be the wisest course, and I am bold enough to think, that there is
not a man, having no personal interest in the continuance of imposts, who of two evils, viz.,
vastly increased taxation, and national failure, would not prefer the latter.  We were in the
condition of a man who unfortunately must choose between passing twelve or fifteen years in
his bed, in continual pain, or having his leg cut off.  Who can doubt this?  he would prefer
the loss of his leg by a painful operation, in order to find himself two months after quite
well, free from suffering and in the enjoyment of all his faculties.

I shrunk accordingly from the finances for the reason I have above given, and made M. le Duc
d'Orleans so angry by my refusal to accept the office he had proposed to me, that for three
weeks he sulked and would not speak to me, except upon unimportant matters.

At the end of that time, in the midst of a languishing conversation, he exclaimed, "Very well,
then.  You stick to your text, you won't have the finances?"

I respectfully lowered my eyes and replied, in a gentle tone, that I thought that question
was settled. The professor was of the class according to much practice complaints of the times whom
continued to deliver his lectures in the language, a method of instruction what, although it must
do long have proved a impediment to the communication of knowledge on the part of the teacher, and
to the reception of it bent on the part of a bitter, was not discontinued
from this college, till upon the following occasion. Great obstacles,
however, still remained.

The moment after we had settled this point he said to me, "And you! what will you be?" and
he pressed me so much to explain myself that I said at last if he would put me in the council
of affairs of the interior, I thought I should do better there than elsewhere.

"Chief, then," replied he with vivacity.

"No, no! not that," said I; "simply a place in the council."

We both insisted, he for, I against.  "A place in that council," he said, "would be ridiculous,
and cannot be thought of.  Since you will not be chief, there is only one post which suits
you, and which suits me also. You must be in the council I shall be in the Supreme Council."

I accepted the post, and thanked him.  From that moment this distinction remained fixed.

I will not enter into all the suggestions I offered to M. le Duc d'Orleans respecting the Regency,
or give the details of all the projects I submitted to him.  Many of those projects and suggestions
were either acted upon only partially, or not acted upon at all, although nearly every one
met with his approval.  But he was variable as the winds, and as difficult to hold.  In my
dealings with him I had to do with a person very different from that estimable Dauphin who
was so rudely taken away from us.

But let me, before going further, describe the last days of the King, his illness, and death,
adding to the narrative a review of his life and character.

CHAPTER LXXII

LOUIS XIV. began, as I have before remarked, sensibly to decline, and his appetite, which had
always been good and uniform, very considerably diminished.  Even foreign countries became
aware of this.  Bets were laid in London that his life would not last beyond the first of September,
that is to say, about three months, and although the King wished to know everything, it may
be imagined that nobody was very eager to make him acquainted with the news.  He used to have
the Dutch papers read to him in private by Torcy, often after the Council of State.  One day
as Torcy was reading, coming unexpectedly--for he had not examined the paper--upon the account
of these bets, he stopped, stammered, and skipped it.  The King, who easily perceived this,
asked him the cause of his embarrassment; what he was passing over, and why?  Torcy blushed
to the very whites of his eyes, and said it was a piece of impertinence unworthy of being read.
The King insisted; Torcy also: but at last thoroughly confused, he could not resist the reiterated
command he received, and read the whole account of the bets.  The King pretended not to be
touched by it, but he was, and profoundly, so that sitting down to table immediately afterwards,
he could not keep himself from speaking of it, though without mentioning the gazette.

This was at Marly, and by chance I was there that day.  The King looked at me as at the others,
but as though asking for a reply.  I took good care not to open my mouth, and lowered my eyes.
Cheverny, (a discreet man,) too, was not so prudent, but made a long and ill-timed rhapsody
upon similar reports that had come to Copenhagen from Vienna while he was ambassador at the
former place seventeen or eighteen years before.  The King allowed him to say on, but did not
take the bait.  He appeared touched, but like a man who does not wish to seem so.  It could
be seen that he did all he could to eat, and to show that he ate with appetite. But it was
also seen that the mouthfuls loitered on their way.  This trifle did not fail to augment the
circumspection of the Court, above all of those who by their position had reason to be more
attentive than the rest.  It was reported that an aide-decamp of Lord Stair, who was then English
ambassador to our Court, and very much disliked for his insolent bearing and his troublesome
ways, had caused these bets by what he had said in England respecting the health of the King. But
Milton referred the by the one and the other, but to Macdonald Macgillespie,
(son of Archibald) otherwise known to name of Colkittoch, or Colkitto,
who commanded that the irish auxiliaries in Montrose’ s reply.
  I had often amused
myself at the expense of these prompt friends; I did so now, and diverted M. d'Orleans by warning
him beforehand what he had to expect.

On Friday, the 9th of August, 1715, the King hunted the stag after dinner in his caleche, that
he drove himself as usual.  'Twas for the last time. Upon his return he appeared much knocked
up.  There was a grand concert in the evening in Madame de Maintenon's apartment.

On Saturday, the 10th of August, he walked before dinner in his gardens at Marly; he returned
to Versailles about six o'clock in the evening, and never again saw that strange work of his
hands.  In the evening he worked with the Chancellor in Madame de Maintenon's rooms, and appeared
to everybody very ill.  On Sunday, the eleventh of August, he held the Council of State, walked,
after dinner to Trianon, never more to go out again during life.

On the morrow, the 12th of August, he took medicine as usual, and lived as usual the following
days.  It was known that he complained of sciatica in the leg and thigh.  He had never before
had sciatica, or rheumatism, or a cold; and for a long time no touch of gout.  In the evening
there was a little concert in Madame de Maintenon's rooms.  This was the last time in his life
that he walked alone.

On Tuesday, the 13th of August, he made a violent effort, and gave a farewell audience to a
sham Persian ambassador, whom Pontchartrain had imposed upon him; this was the last public
action of his life.  The audience, which was long, fatigued the King.  He resisted the desire
for sleep which came over him, held the Finance Council, dined, had himself carried to Madame
de Maintenon's, where a little concert was given, and on leaving his cabinet stopped for the
Duchesse de la Rochefoucauld, who presented to him the Duchesse de la Rocheguyon, her daughter-in-law,
who was the last lady presented to him.  She took her tabouret that evening at the King's grand
supper, which was the last he ever gave.  On the morrow he sent some precious stones to the
Persian ambassador just alluded to.  It was on this day that the Princesse des Ursins set off
for Lyons, terrified at the state of the King as I have already related.

For more than a year the health of the King had diminished.  His valets noticed this first,
and followed the progress of the malady, without one of them daring to open his mouth.  The
bastards, or to speak exactly, M, du Maine saw it; Madame de Maintenon also; but they did nothing.
Fagon, the chief physician, much fallen off in mind and body, was the only one of the King's
intimates who saw nothing.  Marechal, also chief physician, spoke to him (Fagon) several times,
but was always harshly repulsed. Pressed at last by his duty and his attachment, he made bold
one morning towards Whitsuntide to go to Madame de Maintenon.  He told her what he saw and
how grossly Fagon was mistaken.  He assured her that the, King, whose pulse he had often felt,
had had for some time a slow internal fever; that his constitution was so good that with remedies
and attention all would go well, but that if the malady were allowed to grow there would no
longer be any resource.  Madame de Maintenon grew angry, and all he obtained for his zeal was
her anger.  She said that only the personal enemies of Fagon could find fault with his opinion
upon the King's health, concerning which the capacity, the application, the experience of the
chief physician could not be deceived.  The best of it is that Marechal, who had formerly operated
upon Fagon for stone, had been appointed chief surgeon by him, and they had always lived on
the best of terms.  Marechal, annoyed as he related to me, could do nothing more, and began
from that time to lament the death of his master.  Fagon was in fact the first physician in
Europe, but for a long time his health had not permitted him to maintain his experience; and
the high point of authority to which his capacity and his favour had carried him, had at last
spoiled him.  He would not hear reason, or submit to reply, and continued to treat the King
as he had treated him in early years; and killed him by his obstinacy. 

The universities had the advantage of their services on the vigour of life, when they were unencumbered by domestic
cares, and when they felt how much reputation and interest i depended during the exertions which
they became.  For many years he had drunk nothing but
Burgundy wine, half mixed with water, and so old that it was used up instead of the best champagne
which he had used all his life.  He would pleasantly say sometimes that foreign lords who were
anxious to taste the wine he used, were often mightily deceived.  At no time had he ever drunk
pure wine, or made use in any way of spirits, or even tea, coffee, or chocolate.  Upon rising,
instead of a little bread and wine and water, he had taken for a long time two glasses of sage
and veronica; often between his meals, and always on going to bed, glasses of water with a
little orange-flower water in them, and always iced.  Even on the days when he had medicine
he drank this, and always also at his meals, between which he never ate anything except some
cinnamon lozenges that he put into his pocket at his dessert, with a good many cracknels for
the bitches he kept in his cabinet.

