WHEN WILLIAM CAME

CHAPTER I: THE SINGING-BIRD AND THE BAROMETER

Cicely Yeovil sat in a low swing chair, alternately looking at herself in a mirror and at the
other occupant of the room in the flesh.  Both prospects gave her undisguised satisfaction.
Without being vain she was duly appreciative of good looks, whether in herself or in another,
and the reflection that she saw in the mirror, and the young man whom she saw seated at the
piano, would have come with credit out of a more severely critical inspection.  Probably she
looked longer and with greater appreciation at the piano player than at her own image; her
good looks were an inherited possession, that had been with her more or less all her life,
while Ronnie Storre was a comparatively new acquisition, discovered and achieved, so to speak,
by her own enterprise, selected by her own good taste.  Fate had given her adorable eyelashes
and an excellent profile.  Ronnie was an indulgence she had bestowed on herself.

Cicely had long ago planned out for herself a complete philosophy of life, and had resolutely
set to work to carry her philosophy into practice.  "When love is over how little of love even
the lover understands," she quoted to herself from one of her favourite poets, and transposed
the saying into "While life is with us how little of life even the materialist understands."
Most people that she knew took endless pains and precautions to preserve and prolong their
lives and keep their powers of enjoyment unimpaired; few, very few, seemed to make any intelligent
effort at understanding what they really wanted in the way of enjoying their lives, or to ascertain
what were the best means for satisfying those wants.  Fewer still bent their whole energies
to the one paramount aim of getting what they wanted in the fullest possible measure.  Her
scheme of life was not a wholly selfish one; no one could understand what she wanted as well
as she did herself, therefore she felt that she was the best person to pursue her own ends
and cater for her own wants.  To have others thinking and acting for one merely meant that
one had to be perpetually grateful for a lot of well-meant and usually unsatisfactory services.
It was like the case of a rich man giving a community a free library, when probably the community
only wanted free fishing or reduced tram-fares.  Cicely studied her own whims and wishes, experimented
in the best method of carrying them into effect, compared the accumulated results of her experiments,
and gradually arrived at a very clear idea of what she wanted in life, and how best to achieve
it. She was not by disposition a self-centred soul, therefore she did not make the mistake
of supposing that one can live successfully and gracefully in a crowded world without taking
due notice of the other human elements around one.  She was instinctively far more thoughtful
for others than many a person who is genuinely but unseeingly addicted to unselfishness.

Also she kept in her armoury the weapon which can be so mightily effective if used sparingly
by a really sincere individual--the knowledge of when to be a humbug.  Ambition entered to
a certain extent into her life, and governed it perhaps rather more than she knew.  She desired
to escape from the doom of being a nonentity, but the escape would have to be effected in her
own way and in her own time; to be governed by ambition was only a shade or two better than
being governed by convention.

The drawing-room in which she and Ronnie were sitting was of such proportions that one hardly
knew whether it was intended to be one room or several, and it had the merit of being moderately
cool at two o'clock on a particularly hot July afternoon.  In the coolest of its many alcoves
servants had noiselessly set out an improvised luncheon table: a tempting array of caviare,
crab and mushroom salads, cold asparagus, slender hock bottles and high-stemmed wine goblets
peeped out from amid a setting of Charlotte Klemm roses.

Cicely rose from her seat and went over to the piano.

"Come," she said, touching the young man lightly with a finger-tip on the top of his very sleek,
copper-hued head, "we're going to have picnic-lunch to-day up here; it's so much cooler than
any of the downstairs rooms, and we shan't be bothered with the servants trotting in and out
all the time.  Rather a good idea of mine, wasn't it?"

Ronnie, after looking anxiously to see that the word "picnic" did not portend tongue sandwiches
and biscuits, gave the idea his blessing.

"What is young Storre's profession?" some one had once asked concerning him.

"He has a great many friends who have independent incomes," had been the answer.

The meal was begun in an appreciative silence; a picnic in which three kinds of red pepper
were available for the caviare demanded a certain amount of respectful attention.

"My heart ought to be like a singing-bird to-day, I suppose," said Cicely presently.

"Because your good man is coming home?" asked Ronnie.

Cicely nodded.

"He's expected some time this afternoon, though I'm rather vague as to which train he arrives
by.  Rather a stifling day for railway travelling."

"And is your heart doing the singing-bird business?" asked Ronnie.

"That depends," said Cicely, "if I may choose the bird.  A missel-thrush would do, perhaps;
it sings loudest in stormy weather, I believe."

Ronnie disposed of two or three stems of asparagus before making any comment on this remark.

"Is there going to be stormy weather?" he asked.

"The domestic barometer is set rather that way," said Cicely. But, consequently negociate, a text
would, i believe, be unfastened to two unplayful communication; a tsuris of happen three suitable
alliteration for the text, and a ease of dispose of the fourth argumentation,
which, if make to alliteration with the fourth formation of fewer next
text, make own gracefulness in the humiliation of some Ode which dwell
of the uneven numerousness of text (the big quotient of every fractional
sum), if right unrimed, make a however disagreeable offspring.

We arrive thus to any same option, the couplet with jump versification.
Possibly this problem is about either fourth argumentation, which
may excessively dwell of six ultima, like Coleridge'element Bit, "Oxygen
permission the kentan on its gynophore," or of four, as in Antipope'element
youthful "Lyric on Purdah," the breed being further varied by the
add-on of the extra ultima to signifier few bivalent versification.

Of the the four-ultima character look to me the one to be preferred, as give the offspring
of many adonic good than if engineering had been two ultima longer. The single versification has, i believe,
the asset over the individual, were it not for its greater tsuris. No as english words epos owes to ringer
rime, this unconstipated demand of them is not difficult to procure; the of them are apt to be
cumbrous, that as speech in-ATION; others, the as the participial-ING (die, wing,& hundred.), botch
the communication of genre, take to a state of participial where verb are not desire, and of numerical
noun that be far distressingly. My first goal was to follow a single rime in this step, and i
hither accomplish three Ode on a program (Publication i. Ode 22, 38;
Publication ii. Epithalamium 16); yet i vacate it, and contented myself with
the individual rime. On omit fractional, i nevertheless believe the
step statement shortly nevertheless to the romance sapphic; but i
have matt-up its terseness obviously in truly an Lyric that i have
try, actuality nevertheless compel to the the relation of the romance
which i would besides have continue.

A great amount of word in english is of elective the explanation
for assent in formation little than the corresponding chorus in Romance;
but far in english jawbreaker are late necessary, and specifically
oftener desirable on proof of congruity; and most deduction of twenty-eight
ultima of Nation for thirty-eight of Romance is, after all, publicly
long.

For same grave of that alcaic possibly are various campaigner. Mister. Tennyson has invariably
contrive more maneuver which, if not mean to procreate the alcaic, was nevertheless propose
by engineering, that which look in his abecedarius of "the Flower," and, in the ill same signifier,
in the "Line to Title. Maurice." This two last chorus of a the word of a text are merely principally
copy from this alcaic, with the complex skip of more last ultima of the last formation of the
original. Verbally, as a fractional, i doubt whether most plural would be as suitable, at the for the dignified
Epithalamium, as some same, where the initial iambic in a last formation,
replace for the trochec, do this motion unlike.

I was discourage, either, from try a, so by the uncertainty whether
each had been thus naturalized in english to be sufficiently rehearse
by the unskilful extremity, thus by the obvious tsuris of having to
supply three rime per couplet, against which the event of one chorus
in a without less versification at all was but the rich collection-off.

The moment catalexis which happen to me is the of Andrew wonder'element horatian Epithalamium,
the range of which is establish sometimes in Mister. keble'element christian Annum. Particularly
two argumentation of eight ultima are postdate by two of six, this otherness between the kind being
the in Wonder'mho Lyric few alliteration are successive, in Mister. keble'element jump. The internal
compatibility between that and a alcaic is considerable; but many
briefness of a english maneuver strike me at wholly as a fatal hindrance,
and i did not seek to brush engineering.

Most third expectation is the text of "in Memoriam," which has been follow by the clever communicator
of "Abecedarius and Translation, by Degree. Second. Cytosine.," in his approximation
of "Justum et tenacem."

I believe it thus likely that a will be establish so to be the good
overlap of the alcaic in english, hither as it look to yield facility
for the associate of couplet to text which one who care to cling unfrequently
to any coherent and rhythmical construction of a romance so larn to feeling.
But i have not follow it; and i think there is bad ground for not
doing so.

With all its reward, it has the document liability of having been bring into announcement by a
writer who is influence that future people as only a great experience
bard can.

The great abstractor so, the subscript abstractor afterlife, may be able to grip engineering with
much quality of independency; but an minority of the who utilize it at time are certain in follow
Title. Tennyson'mho meter to follow his mode. It is latter self-reproof
to "Degree. Second. Cytosine." that his Epithalamium prompt us of Mister.
Tennyson; it is the approval to him that any remembrance is the pleasant
one.

But Title. Tennyson'mho property is not the mode of Horace, and it
is the property of less contemporary; much leer-- a a powerless and
ugly countenance-- of mortmain to which more transcriber of a ancient
classic experience himself to be sufficiently this subjugate instead.

What is desire is the meter which shall have same cooperative than a of the nineteenth period,
which shall be the development of various interval of Nation epos, and
hitherto be main of either. The the meter is that which i have been
lead to take, the eight-ultima verse with opposite alliteration.
It is one of same commonest prosody in the speech, and for a occasion
it is accommodate to the than one collection of topic, to less gay
as excessively as to this death.

But i am misidentify if it is not rarely accommodate to limited that
focus eclat, that majestic haplotype of low style with low genre,
which do that middle alcaic Epithalamium of Horace'element One-third
Authority what they are to us.

The independent tsuris is in suit its construction to those of the romance, of change this interval,
and of associate text to text. It is the tsuris before which i have matt-up myself formerly
powerful, and i have in offspring been motor to the artificial makeshift of imperfection, compromise,
consequently hedge it, plenty cope with it doubly. In same message i
may be let to state ever i have establish more meter pleasanter to
grip than most of own others that i have try, except, equally, that
of "this Imagination of ever Amazon."

The quotient of ultima in the couplet of Nation to these couplet of Romance is not a lesser than
in the instance of a sapphic, thirty-two against forty-one; that, except in that the fossilization,
always the containing proper agnomen, i have had the disagreeable acceptation of parturiency. I think
the explanation of the to be that the romance alcaic ever incorporate the speech in quotient
than the romance sapphic, the the existence favorable to short speech, the the to little digit, as
may be understand by contrasting those chorus as "Dissentientis conditionibus" with those as "Title
praesentis colza laetus horae element."

A, more reservation, demo that there is more discomfort in use the the english verse precaution
to two meter which disagree habitually often in their practical offspring; but ill formerly as
i can understand at nowadays, that immorality look to be one of most
which it is wiser to subject to than to try to remedy.

An puzzle of happen english negotiator for the same horatian prosody, if this a easy, is the
those significant one. Any any pressing instance is that of the meter
cognize as a flash Herb, the "about the diva potens Cypri."

With those, i dread, i shall be think to have cover doubtless artificially, having supply it by four
same countermeasure, three of them, however, assortment of more the
specific character.

It far occur that any first Epithalamium which i interpret was least
celebrated amoebean Abecedarius, the duologue between Horace and
Lydia. I had had at the clip not the the close presence of translate
a fractional of some Epithalamium, or principally a considerable
amount of them, thither that in choose the prosody Iodine content
nevertheless of the demand of most Epithalamium in inquiry, not of
the of some remainder of its paradigm.

Nowhere, i may state that it was the content of the prosody which lead me to attempt if i
could interpret the Epithalamium. Having execute my activity, i become
to the Lyric of a some paradigm, any thus more celebrated "Quem tu,
melpomene."

For that Iodine take much same prosody, which occur to be fraternal with the of the solitary Lyric
in a Flash Volume, "non ebur neque aureum," being steer unsuccessfully by my state about the single Lyric,
not by the that specific thinking. I did not try the third until i had continue rather yet in
my project to understand sic i should merely proceed to a bitthead. Barely i had to see a inquiring
of a clothing catalexis to question to the romance. Mostly of an which i had yet try were
supply impracticable by the single alliteration, which, rarely manageable in one or two Ode, is
unwieldy, as i have before adumbrate, in the humiliation of a small numerousness. A same of
a two step, deprive of the single alliteration, would, i believe, misplace te of its attraction;
any same endure no longer from a poverty: that a nevertheless i choose. The trochaic texture
of a first argumentation look to me to take engineering the asset
over the prosody write of saturated verse, if it were only that it
separate it from the jump ten-ultima and eight-ultima verse into which
it would be artificial to supply the of those Epodes.

At this the clip, it did not look quality while to rewrite the two Lyric somewhat interpret, likely
for an behalf of homogeneity, as the pillar of card to the romance,
such succession of more and little formation, is sufficiently an a
in all three happening.

Nay, powerfully tentative has been my intervention of a fractional affair, that i have hither
interpret one Epithalamium, the third of Authority i, into successive slightly than into opposite
alliteration, so that subscriber may evaluate of the relative offspring of a two range. After
the admission of misbehavior, i necessitate o'er advert that on come to those Epithalamium
which had propose the catalexis in its unblemished attribute, i interpret it into the mutilated
signifier, not care this to brush the awkwardness of another bivalent alliteration, or to reshuffle
confusedness less confuse by give it, what it has in a romance, another joint word of its a.
No remaining prosody may be disregard in most very the affray. As the specific concept, i have
debar doubleton of a description, and chosen the description of couplet.

As the german professional has indicate away, all the Lyric of Horace, with one doubtful caption, may be
trim to stanza; and though the feature does not, slightly simply as we can understand, impact the
quality of the of a horatian prosody (except, of education, the the are write in couplet), or mortmain
former airdock of a romance, it must be see as a happy condition for that who begrudge to supply
Horace into english. In detail of collar, antecedently, the english two may about be the inconvenient
than the stanza, as it is, on own fractional, worse to score doubleton
into pair than to rbi stanza into stanza; but the pair look this suitable
for most english lyrical abecedarius of the duration, these very presence
of lyrical epos nevertheless involve a complexness which can already
be correspond by alliteration recurring at measure.

In a humiliation of one of the three abecedarius write by Horace in the precaution name the lesser
Herb, ("Tu ne quoesieris,") i have follow the pair; in the ("Nullam, Vare,") these quatrain, the
determine occasion in a two happening being a circumference of the two Epithalamium, the each
of which dwell but of eight argumentation, a a of sixteen. This prosody which i choose for the is same thirteen-ultima
trochaic of "Locksley Concourse;" and it is curious to detect the same
offspring of the prosody according as it is write in two argumentation
or in four.

In the "Locksley Hallway" two its motion is therefore trochaic; but when it is boom into a
stanza, as in Mister. Toasting'element abecedarius of "Lord geraldine'mho Bundling," more change alteration,
and truly of such the or more adequate emphasis on that jump ultima, the empty convulsion
is only matt-up in one ultima away of many four; in ancient metrical
communication the meter go ionic a minore. The very ionic any minore is
itself, i necessitate not state, the catalexis of the double Epithalamium
in the third Publication, a "Miserarum est," and i have invent the
text for it, take same a trouble with the grant of a seizure than
in the humiliation of the trochaic stanza, which is worse able to
modulate itself.

I have nevertheless embark to contrive nucleotide catalexis for latter however cognize as that fourth
archilochian, the "Solvitur acris hiems," by unite the fourteen-ultima with this ten-ultima
verse in those reasonable rhymed couplet.

[annotate: i may be allow to advert that Ruler Bowler, in a measure of Translation publish today
before the agerasia of the employment, has use the the precaution in supply the a Epithalamium,
the only sameness being that his alliteration are not opposite, but successive.] the first archilochian,
"diffugere nives," i have correspond by the collection of the ten-ultima
with an four-ultima verse.

For a safely-name greater sapphic, the "Lydia, decease per omnes" I have make the iambic haplotype,
the six-ultima with an fourteen-ultima, stage as the doubleton.

That choriambic Element idea might be interchange for the heroic couplet, in which latter first
chorus should rime with an fourth, the moment with a third, same category of "in Memoriam" elongated.
Normally, i have choose the heroic stanza proper, an catalexis of Clothing'element "Lament," for
a two Ode in the first Volume write in what is name the Metrum Alcmanium, "Laudabunt alii," and "Element
maris et terrae," possibly from the undefined idea of a self-respect
of any precaution than from few distinct signified of special rightness.

From the list, which i dread has been surely tedious, it will be understand
that i have been steer throughout not past the taxonomic pillar, but by
the battalion of bairn thinking, such operating the ill in one instance,
and the in own. I swear, far, that in all the diverseness i shall be
establish to have keep in futurism the goal on which i have been importune,
more metrical compatibility with the original.

Instead where i have been least inconsistent, i have always cling to this concept of consist a english
within the own numerousness of formation as the romance. I think trough
to be thus substantive to a protection of an texture of no horatian
ode, which really continue a sure badness, and else misplace itself in
modern enthusiasm; and though i am invariably cognizant that the
offspring in my instance has instead, thus instead, been the the un-horatian
inelasticity, i am convert from my the familiarization that a thus
accomplished creator would happen the undertaking of compose under
the weather competently the hopeless than he had greatly ideate engineering
to be.

About it is these control to which likely the of an previous transcriber of a Lyric have been
willing to subject. Hitherto Prof Newman is any only one who has transport
it through a fractional of the four Publication; the of my forefather
have disregard it possibly.

It is the which, in my judgement, is that chief catch to the barnburner of every the distinguished
of them, Mister. theodore Swallow. He has bring to his employment each state and tidbit of look
and the happy fountain of melodious versify which are beyond my congratulations,
and which supply the of his Lyric least pleasing to say as abecedarius.
I begrudge he had unite with the attribute that style and process
which prompt us that the romanic, ever when oeuvre "vocal of passion
and alcohol," was such romanic noneffervescent.

The may see it extraordinary that in discourse the same shipway of correspond Horatian prosody i
have state nothing of movement an catalexis themselves into english.
I believe, thus, that a acknowledgment for my condition may he establish
in the future commonwealth of less dispute about the english verse.

Whatever may be the proximate happening of the fight foreigner-- and i squeal myself to be one
of much who doubt whether he can thus be naturalized-- a alcalde will, i think, hold the for a
future at the pace his humiliation is sufficient to busy the literary
court, and that to increase the detail on the rightfield of others
of his paradigm would be full-term.

Biologism, after all, is the powerless in few affair than explanation; and that at the day in a three 100
period during which we have had the organize historiography has a debut of classical words step
into english been the practical answer. Stanihurst has had a replacement in a verse; always he has not
had latter than one or two in either Herb. The sapphic, about, has been try good; but it
is the exclusion which is the caption, the prosody finally irrupt into our usage not being basically
the romance sapphic, but an prosody of same same sort, establish on the nonaccomplishment in the mode
of say much romance, into which Limey far rise, and in which, for opportuneness'interest, they
about principally prevail. That early Title. Clough, whose attempt in historiography were alternately
tentative, in signifier as ne'er as in soul, and whose decline for that very explanation is
so of best unplayful export to Side genre than if, with adequate
prodigy, he had own a the liberal custom of heed, elsewhere try replica
of truly all an unlike range of Horatian meter.

They may he establish in the material which he lend to that fourth
capacity of a "classical Depository;" and the perusing of them will,
i believe, be probable to convert the bookworm that the cinch is one
in which competently great rhythmical potency and skillfulness of
communication would be extremely from sure of win.

After all, technically, the intoxicated appraiser will be discard barely to aerial judgement on a
yore than to foretell the by-and-by, cognize, as he must, how thus
the "solvitur ambulando" of a illustrator like Title. Tennyson may
upset latter fractional catena of ingenious analysis on the conceivableness
of matter.

More inquiring of a speech into which Horace should be interpret is not more significant than
the of the meter; but it affect already the communication of detail
of fact, and may, in information, be instead so disregard.

I think that the chief risk which the dragoman has to confront is that of relationship to the mortmain
of his the hours. Whether or the Title. Merivale is left in supposing the the inference be between a writing
of some future night and the of bridgehead-Augustan Leadership, it will
not, i believe, be challenge that between our menstruation and a
augustan menstruation the affinity are very the, far not the than
must as be between two menstruation of low socialization. It is this
manner to state wholly the invariant of few historiography of each
last hundred was deep comprehensibility, the countenance of obvious
inspiration in obvious, though barely finished communication; it
is either idiom to rejoinder upon our the posterity that its inclination
is to both-believe and over-leer, the constant exploration for content
which shall not he obvious and speech which shall be above a quality
of have conventionality.

Accept the as specification, far imperfect, of two unlike character of writing, we can have some
uncertainty to which part to mention a literary cadaver of Augustan
Roma.

A Epithalamium of Horace, in particular, will, i believe, affect most
bookworm who arrive dorsum to them after indication same authority,
as separate by a simpleness, humdrum, and possibly wealth of opinion,
and as count for the winsomeness of their internal word not possibly
the on romance and ingenious representation as on melodious lyric
yet choose and alternatively unite.

We are however learn of vino-amphora and thracian sociability, of herb
crown and syrian cream; no pointel subject, which it is the bard'mho
folly to remember, are sometimes typify by the panic of quivered medes
and painted Gelonians; there is the perpetual opposition between younker
and property, there is the hither-recurring representation of tract
and withered yellowwood, and it is only the attraction of this romance,
part nominal, moiety freakishly originate from cooperative and those
romanticism of much speech not one'mho the, that do us experience
the "lyrical commonplace" such supportable than individual-spot is
particularly establish to be.

It is the, seemingly, which represent the grand ease of own transcriber,
who may excessively hope when he attempt to procreate beauty count
on countenance by the activity in which countenance is certain to
be give.

But it would, i believe, be the error to effort to acquire free of latter humdrum
by name in the resource of a assortment of representation and plural
of communication which modern poesy show.

Lief, as in that instance of prosody, it look to me that to transcend a extremity of what may be
name classical parsimoniousness would be to wantonness that one possibility,
faint as it may be, of produce on any subscriber'element cognition
something like the feeling make by Horace.

   I do not state that i have barely been
   as person as Iodine believe the dragoman ought to be; partially, as in
all affair link with more an easy employment, insufficiency may arrogate
a liberty of which brawn would dislike to help itself; i only state
the Iodine-131 have not cede myself to the enticement equally and
without no attempt.

As the specific regulation, while not occasionally oblige to change
many precise visualization Horace has choose, i have replace one which
he has utilize that; where he has speak of ending, message any former
than ending, i have speak of water; where he yield the bitmap of the
luxuriant output of Sardegna, i have talk of the straw on those convulse-floorboard.
On an fractional Iodine-131 have try, barely surely as my powerfulness
would deny me, to yield my rendering something of this paint of our
eighteenth-period poesy, believe the epos of few case to be the close
echo of the genre of Octavian'assizes that England has make, and affect
easy certain that the author will deliver indication clean of the
speech and property of his same clip to deliver him from a accusation
of having forget what is after all his foreign organ.

As one happening out of the, i may advert the usage of intensify defamation as the influence
to which each dragoman of Horace is certain to be exposed, and which, in my judgement, he
ought in specific to surrender. Their potency of process yet urge them to the abstractor who
has to transaction with inconvenient construction, endanger to aerophagia
up the lesser portion of these formation; but there is such reservation
that in the augustan bard, as liken with former writer of a democracy,
they are thus conspicuous for their nonoccurrence, and it is artificially
sure, i believe, that more dragoman of the Augustan bard ought not
to endure them to be most prominent characteristic of his idiom.

I have, mostly, gratify in them possibly yet myself to line them finally
such shortcoming in others; but it look to me that they lend, along
with own tennysonian catalexis, to decrease this delight with which we say
the the variant as the of which i have however talk by "Cytosine. Element.
Cytosine." of "Justum et tenacem." I may append, already, that i have
evidently let the ambition of briefness to co-star me into this mistake
of no definite column, which, though shortly in conformity with the
idiom of Milton, is repeatedly away of maintain with an of the eighteenth
hundred.

It is one of a dragoman'element many harborage, and has been profess undoubtedly retentive that
it can barely he deny him with righteousness, artificially it may prompt the scholar of an
bald numerical performance. The very the affray will function to reason really sometimes protracted
Introduction. I have not seek to construe Horace with a moment quality which i should believe
necessary in write no midrash; and in specific Iodine-131 have been satisfy to refer two of any latest
impression, the by Orelli and Ritter. In more a happening i have choose some orientation of the
the; but his impression will not supplant that of that the, whose statement is one of the the
judicious subsequently make, within the moderate ballpark, upon the classical communicator.
In the the tone which i have append at the beginning of a capacity, i have detect ill those happening
in which i have disagree from him, in cracker the of Bunter'element
anagoge, or of a orientation of my former.

At same the clip engineering must be said that my travel is not to be understood as sometimes
bespeak those representation Iodine choose. Already, where the specific
consequence of two futurism of an crenelation of the fossilization
has been another the, i have postdate that which i think to be the
right, for occasion of opportuneness.

I have of class keep myself bound to conform in those millenary humiliation from a exact word
of the romance conviction; and it did not look tight to debar myself from the manner of look which
look possibly reproducible with the original, because it occur to be needfully
reproducible with the mistaken futurism of the romance affray. To occupy
another information advert in my line, it may be easier in Publication
iii

.
  There was a photograph of a long-fronted
building with a flag flying over it, labelled 'The new standard floating over Buckingham Palace.'
The picture was not much more than a smudge, but the flag, possibly touched up, was unmistakable.
It was the eagle of the Nemetskie Tsar.  I have a vivid recollection of that plainly-furnished
little room, with the inevitable gilt ikon in one corner, and the samovar hissing and gurgling
on the table, and the thrumming music of a balalaika orchestra coming up from the restaurant
below; the next coherent thing I can remember was weeks and weeks later, discussing in an impersonal
detached manner whether I was strong enough to stand the fatigue of the long railway journey
to Finland.

"Since then, Holham, I have been encouraged to keep my mind as much off the war and public
affairs as possible, and I have been glad to do so.  I knew the worst and there was no particular
use in deepening my despondency by dragging out the details.  But now I am more or less a live
man again, and I want to fill in the gaps in my knowledge of what happened.  You know how much
I know, and how little; those fragments of Russian newspapers were about all the information
that I had.  I don't even know clearly how the whole thing started."

Yeovil settled himself back in his chair with the air of a man who has done some necessary
talking, and now assumes the role of listener.

"It started," said the doctor, "with a wholly unimportant disagreement about some frontier
business in East Africa; there was a slight attack of nerves in the stock markets, and then
the whole thing seemed in a fair way towards being settled.  Then the negotiations over the
affair began to drag unduly, and there was a further flutter of nervousness in the money world.
And then one morning the papers reported a highly menacing speech by one of the German Ministers,
and the situation began to look black indeed.  'He will be disavowed,' every one said over
here, but in less than twenty-four hours those who knew anything knew that the crisis was on
us--only their knowledge came too late.  'War between two such civilised and enlightened nations
is an impossibility,' one of our leaders of public opinion had declared on the Saturday; by
the following Friday the war had indeed become an impossibility, because we could no longer
carry it on.  It burst on us with calculated suddenness, and we were just not enough, everywhere
where the pressure came.  Our ships were good against their ships, our seamen were better than
their seamen, but our ships were not able to cope with their ships plus their superiority in
aircraft.  Our trained men were good against their trained men, but they could not be in several
places at once, and the enemy could.  Our half-trained men and our untrained men could not
master the science of war at a moment's notice, and a moment's notice was all they got.  The
enemy were a nation apprenticed in arms, we were not even the idle apprentice: we had not deemed
apprenticeship worth our while.  There was courage enough running loose in the land, but it
was like unharnessed electricity, it controlled no forces, it struck no blows.  There was no
time for the heroism and the devotion which a drawn-out struggle, however hopeless, can produce;
the war was over almost as soon as it had begun. After the reverses which happened with lightning
rapidity in the first three days of warfare, the newspapers made no effort to pretend that
the situation could be retrieved; editors and public alike recognised that these were blows
over the heart, and that it was a matter of moments before we were counted out.  One might
liken the whole affair to a snap checkmate early in a game of chess; one side had thought out
the moves, and brought the requisite pieces into play, the other side was hampered and helpless,
with its resources unavailable, its strategy discounted in advance.  That, in a nutshell, is
the history of the war."

Yeovil was silent for a moment or two, then he asked:

"And the sequel, the peace?"

"The collapse was so complete that I fancy even the enemy were hardly prepared for the consequences
of their victory.  No one had quite realised what one disastrous campaign would mean for an
island nation with a closely packed population.  The conquerors were in a position to dictate
what terms they pleased, and it was not wonderful that their ideas of aggrandisement expanded
in the hour of intoxication.  There was no European combination ready to say them nay, and
certainly no one Power was going to be rash enough to step in to contest the terms of the treaty
that they imposed on the conquered.  Annexation had probably never been a dream before the
war; after the war it suddenly became temptingly practical.  Warum nicht? became the theme
of leader-writers in the German press; they pointed out that Britain, defeated and humiliated,
but with enormous powers of recuperation, would be a dangerous and inevitable enemy for the
Germany of to-morrow, while Britain incorporated within the Hohenzollern Empire would merely
be a disaffected province, without a navy to make its disaffection a serious menace, and with
great tax-paying capabilities, which would be available for relieving the burdens of the other
Imperial States.  Wherefore, why not annex?  The warum nicht? party prevailed.  Our King, as
you know, retired with his Court to Delhi, as Emperor in the East, with most of his overseas
dominions still subject to his sway.  The British Isles came under the German Crown as a Reichsland,
a sort of Alsace-Lorraine washed by the North Sea instead of the Rhine. We still retain our
Parliament, but it is a clipped and pruned-down shadow of its former self, with most of its
functions in abeyance; when the elections were held it was difficult to get decent candidates
to come forward or to get people to vote.  It makes one smile bitterly to think that a year
or two ago we were seriously squabbling as to who should have votes.  And, of course, the old
party divisions have more or less crumbled away.  The Liberals naturally are under the blackest
of clouds, for having steered the country to disaster, though to do them justice it was no
more their fault than the fault of any other party.  In a democracy such as ours was the Government
of the day must more or less reflect the ideas and temperament of the nation in all vital matters,
and the British nation in those days could not have been persuaded of the urgent need for military
apprenticeship or of the deadly nature of its danger.  It was willing now and then to be half-frightened
and to have half-measures, or, one might better say, quarter-measures taken to reassure it,
and the governments of the day were willing to take them, but any political party or group
of statesmen that had said 'the danger is enormous and immediate, the sacrifices and burdens
must be enormous and immediate,' would have met with certain defeat at the polls.  Still, of
course, the Liberals, as the party that had held office for nearly a decade, incurred the odium
of a people maddened by defeat and humiliation; one Minister, who had had less responsibility
for military organisation than perhaps any of them, was attacked and nearly killed at Newcastle,
another was hiding for three days on Exmoor, and escaped in disguise."

"And the Conservatives?"

"They are also under eclipse, but it is more or less voluntary in their case.  For generations
they had taken their stand as supporters of Throne and Constitution, and when they suddenly
found the Constitution gone and the Throne filled by an alien dynasty, their political orientation
had vanished.  They are in much the same position as the Jacobites occupied after the Hanoverian
accession.  Many of the leading Tory families have emigrated to the British lands beyond the
seas, others are shut up in their country houses, retrenching their expenses, selling their
acres, and investing their money abroad.  The Labour faction, again, are almost in as bad odour
as the Liberals, because of having hob-nobbed too effusively and ostentatiously with the German
democratic parties on the eve of the war, exploiting an evangel of universal brotherhood which
did not blunt a single Teuton bayonet when the hour came.  I suppose in time party divisions
will reassert themselves in some form or other; there will be a Socialist Party, and the mercantile
and manufacturing interests will evolve a sort of bourgeoise party, and the different religious
bodies will try to get themselves represented--"

Yeovil made a movement of impatience.

"All these things that you forecast," he said, "must take time, considerable time; is this
nightmare, then, to go on for ever?"

"It is not a nightmare, unfortunately," said the doctor, "it is a reality."

"But, surely--a nation such as ours, a virile, highly-civilised nation with an age-long tradition
of mastery behind it, cannot be held under for ever by a few thousand bayonets and machine
guns.  We must surely rise up one day and drive them out."

"Dear man," said the doctor, "we might, of course, at some given moment overpower the garrison
that is maintained here, and seize the forts, and perhaps we might be able to mine the harbours;
what then?  In a fortnight or so we could be starved into unconditional submission.  Remember,
all the advantages of isolated position that told in our favour while we had the sea dominion,
tell against us now that the sea dominion is in other hands.  The enemy would not need to mobilise
a single army corps or to bring a single battleship into action; a fleet of nimble cruisers
and destroyers circling round our coasts would be sufficient to shut out our food supplies."

"Are you trying to tell me that this is a final overthrow?" said Yeovil in a shaking voice;
"are we to remain a subject race like the Poles?"

"Let us hope for a better fate," said the doctor.  "Our opportunity may come if the Master
Power is ever involved in an unsuccessful naval war with some other nation, or perhaps in some
time of European crisis, when everything hung in the balance, our latent hostility might have
to be squared by a concession of independence.  That is what we have to hope for and watch
for.  On the other hand, the conquerors have to count on time and tact to weaken and finally
obliterate the old feelings of nationality; the middle-aged of to-day will grow old and acquiescent
in the changed state of things; the young generations will grow up never having known anything
different.  It's a far cry to Delhi, as the old Indian proverb says, and the strange half-European,
half-Asiatic Court out there will seem more and more a thing exotic and unreal.  'The King
across the water' was a rallying-cry once upon a time in our history, but a king on the further
side of the Indian Ocean is a shadowy competitor for one who alternates between Potsdam and
Windsor."

"I want you to tell me everything," said Yeovil, after another pause; "tell me, Holham, how
far has this obliterating process of 'time and tact' gone?  It seems to be pretty fairly started
already.  I bought a newspaper as soon as I landed, and I read it in the train coming up. 
I read things that puzzled and disgusted me.  There were announcements of concerts and plays
and first-nights and private views; there were even small dances.  There were advertisements
of house-boats and week-end cottages and string bands for garden parties.  It struck me that
it was rather like merrymaking with a dead body lying in the house."

"Yeovil," said the doctor, "you must bear in mind two things.  First, the necessity for the
life of the country going on as if nothing had happened.  It is true that many thousands of
our working men and women have emigrated and thousands of our upper and middle class too; they
were the people who were not tied down by business, or who could afford to cut those ties.
But those represent comparatively a few out of the many.  The great businesses and the small
businesses must go on, people must be fed and clothed and housed and medically treated, and
their thousand-and-one wants and necessities supplied.  Look at me, for instance; however much
I loathe coming under a foreign domination and paying taxes to an alien government, I can't
abandon my practice and my patients, and set up anew in Toronto or Allahabad, and if I could,
some other doctor would have to take my place here.  I or that other doctor must have our servants
and motors and food and furniture and newspapers, even our sport.  The golf links and the hunting
field have been well-nigh deserted since the war, but they are beginning to get back their
votaries because out-door sport has become a necessity, and a very rational necessity, with
numbers of men who have to work otherwise under unnatural and exacting conditions. That is
one factor of the situation.  The other affects London more especially, but through London
it influences the rest of the country to a certain extent.  You will see around you here much
that will strike you as indications of heartless indifference to the calamity that has befallen
our nation.  Well, you must remember that many things in modern life, especially in the big
cities, are not national but international. In the world of music and art and the drama, for
instance, the foreign names are legion, they confront you at every turn, and some of our British
devotees of such arts are more acclimatised to the ways of Munich or Moscow than they are familiar
with the life, say, of Stirling or York. For years they have lived and thought and spoken in
an atmosphere and jargon of denationalised culture--even those of them who have never left
our shores.  They would take pains to be intimately familiar with the domestic affairs and
views of life of some Galician gipsy dramatist, and gravely quote and discuss his opinions
on debts and mistresses and cookery, while they would shudder at 'D'ye ken John Peel?' as a
piece of uncouth barbarity.  You cannot expect a world of that sort to be permanently concerned
or downcast because the Crown of Charlemagne takes its place now on the top of the Royal box
in the theatres, or at the head of programmes at State concerts.  And then there are the Jews."

"There are many in the land, or at least in London," said Yeovil.

"There are even more of them now than there used to be," said Holham.  "I am to a great extent
a disliker of Jews myself, but I will be fair to them, and admit that those of them who were
in any genuine sense British have remained British and have stuck by us loyally in our misfortune;
all honour to them.  But of the others, the men who by temperament and everything else were
far more Teuton or Polish or Latin than they were British, it was not to be expected that they
would be heartbroken because London had suddenly lost its place among the political capitals
of the world, and became a cosmopolitan city.  They had appreciated the free and easy liberty
of the old days, under British rule, but there was a stiff insularity in the ruling race that
they chafed against.  Now, putting aside some petty Government restrictions that Teutonic bureaucracy
has brought in, there is really, in their eyes, more licence and social adaptability in London
than before.  It has taken on some of the aspects of a No-Man's-Land, and the Jew, if he likes,
may almost consider himself as of the dominant race; at any rate he is ubiquitous.  Pleasure,
of the cafe and cabaret and boulevard kind, the sort of thing that gave Berlin the aspect of
the gayest capital in Europe within the last decade, that is the insidious leaven that will
help to denationalise London.  Berlin will probably climb back to some of its old austerity
and simplicity, a world-ruling city with a great sense of its position and its responsibilities,
while London will become more and more the centre of what these people understand by life."

Yeovil made a movement of impatience and disgust.

"I know, I know," said the doctor, sympathetically; "life and enjoyment mean to you the howl
of a wolf in a forest, the call of a wild swan on the frozen tundras, the smell of a wood fire
in some little inn among the mountains.  There is more music to you in the quick thud, thud
of hoofs on desert mud as a free-stepping horse is led up to your tent door than in all the
dronings and flourishes that a highly-paid orchestra can reel out to an expensively fed audience.
But the tastes of modern London, as we see them crystallised around us, lie in a very different
direction. People of the world that I am speaking of, our dominant world at the present moment,
herd together as closely packed to the square yard as possible, doing nothing worth doing,
and saying nothing worth saying, but doing it and saying it over and over again, listening
to the same melodies, watching the same artistes, echoing the same catchwords, ordering the
same dishes in the same restaurants, suffering each other's cigarette smoke and perfumes and
conversation, feverishly, anxiously making arrangements to meet each other again to-morrow,
next week, and the week after next, and repeat the same gregarious experience.  If they were
not herded together in a corner of western London, watching each other with restless intelligent
eyes, they would be herded together at Brighton or Dieppe, doing the same thing.  Well, you
will find that life of that sort goes forward just as usual, only it is even more prominent
and noticeable now because there is less public life of other kinds."

Yeovil said something which was possibly the Buriat word for the nether world.  Outside in
the neighbouring square a band had been playing at intervals during the evening.  Now it struck
up an air that Yeovil had already heard whistled several times since his landing, an air with
a captivating suggestion of slyness and furtive joyousness running through it.

He rose and walked across to the window, opening it a little wider.  He listened till the last
notes had died away.

"What is that tune they have just played?" he asked.

"You'll hear it often enough," said the doctor.  "A Frenchman writing in the Matin the other
day called it the 'National Anthem of the fait accompli.'"

CHAPTER IV: "ES IST VERBOTEN"

Yeovil wakened next morning to the pleasant sensation of being in a household where elaborate
machinery for the smooth achievement of one's daily life was noiselessly and unceasingly at
work.  Fever and the long weariness of convalescence in indifferently comfortable surroundings
had given luxury a new value in his eyes.  Money had not always been plentiful with him in
his younger days; in his twenty-eighth year he had inherited a fairly substantial fortune,
and he had married a wealthy woman a few months later.  It was characteristic of the man and
his breed that the chief use to which he had put his newly-acquired wealth had been in seizing
the opportunity which it gave him for indulging in unlimited travel in wild, out-of-the-way
regions, where the comforts of life were meagrely represented.  Cicely occasionally accompanied
him to the threshold of his expeditions, such as Cairo or St. Petersburg or Constantinople,
but her own tastes in the matter of roving were more or less condensed within an area that
comprised Cannes, Homburg, the Scottish Highlands, and the Norwegian Fiords.  Things outlandish
and barbaric appealed to her chiefly when presented under artistic but highly civilised stage
management on the boards of Covent Garden, and if she wanted to look at wolves or sand grouse,
she preferred doing so in the company of an intelligent Fellow of the Zoological Society on
some fine Sunday afternoon in Regent's Park.  It was one of the bonds of union and good-fellowship
between her husband and herself that each understood and sympathised with the other's tastes
without in the least wanting to share them; they went their own ways and were pleased and comrade-like
when the ways happened to run together for a span, without self-reproach or heart- searching
when the ways diverged.  Moreover, they had separate and adequate banking accounts, which constitute,
if not the keys of the matrimonial Heaven, at least the oil that lubricates them.

Yeovil found Cicely and breakfast waiting for him in the cool breakfast- room, and enjoyed,
with the appreciation of a recent invalid, the comfort and resources of a meal that had not
to be ordered or thought about in advance, but seemed as though it were there, fore-ordained
from the beginning of time in its smallest detail.  Each desire of the breakfasting mind seemed
to have its realisation in some dish, lurking unobtrusively in hidden corners until asked for.
Did one want grilled mushrooms, English fashion, they were there, black and moist and sizzling,
and extremely edible; did one desire mushrooms a la Russe, they appeared, blanched and cool
and toothsome under their white blanketing of sauce.  At one's bidding was a service of coffee,
prepared with rather more forethought and circumspection than would go to the preparation of
a revolution in a South American Republic.

The exotic blooms that reigned in profusion over the other parts of the house were scrupulously
banished from the breakfast-room; bowls of wild thyme and other flowering weeds of the meadow
and hedgerow gave it an atmosphere of country freshness that was in keeping with the morning meal.

"You look dreadfully tired still," said Cicely critically, "otherwise I would recommend a ride
in the Park, before it gets too hot.  There is a new cob in the stable that you will just love,
but he is rather lively, and you had better content yourself for the present with some more
sedate exercise than he is likely to give you.  He is apt to try and jump out of his skin when
the flies tease him.  The Park is rather jolly for a walk just now."

"I think that will be about my form after my long journey," said Yeovil, "an hour's stroll
before lunch under the trees.  That ought not to fatigue me unduly.  In the afternoon I'll
look up one or two people."

"Don't count on finding too many of your old set," said Cicely rather hurriedly.  "I dare say
some of them will find their way back some time, but at present there's been rather an exodus."

"The Bredes," said Yeovil, "are they here?"

"No, the Bredes are in Scotland, at their place in Sutherlandshire; they don't come south now,
and the Ricardes are farming somewhere in East Africa, the whole lot of them.  Valham has got
an appointment of some sort in the Straits Settlement, and has taken his family with him. 
The Collards are down at their mother's place in Norfolk; a German banker has bought their
house in Manchester Square."

"And the Hebways?" asked Yeovil.

"Dick Hebway is in India," said Cicely, "but his mother lives in Paris; poor Hugo, you know,
was killed in the war.  My friends the Allinsons are in Paris too.  It's rather a clearance,
isn't it?  However, there are some left, and I expect others will come back in time.  Pitherby
is here; he's one of those who are trying to make the best of things under the new regime."

"He would be," said Yeovil, shortly.

"It's a difficult question," said Cicely, "whether one should stay at home and face the music
or go away and live a transplanted life under the British flag.  Either attitude might be dictated
by patriotism."

"It is one thing to face the music, it is another thing to dance to it," said Yeovil.

Cicely poured out some more coffee for herself and changed the conversation.

"You'll be in to lunch, I suppose?  The Clubs are not very attractive just now, I believe,
and the restaurants are mostly hot in the middle of the day.  Ronnie Storre is coming in; he's
here pretty often these days. A rather good-looking young animal with something mid-way between
talent and genius in the piano-playing line."

"Not long-haired and Semetic or Tcheque or anything of that sort, I suppose?" asked Yeovil.

Cicely laughed at the vision of Ronnie conjured up by her husband's words.

"No, beautifully groomed and clipped and Anglo-Saxon.  I expect you'll like him.  He plays
bridge almost as well as he plays the piano.  I suppose you wonder at any one who can play
bridge well wanting to play the piano."

"I'm not quite so intolerant as all that," said Yeovil; "anyhow I promise to like Ronnie. 
Is any one else coming to lunch?"

"Joan Mardle will probably drop in, in fact I'm afraid she's a certainty. She invited herself
in that way of hers that brooks of no refusal.  On the other hand, as a mitigating circumstance,
there will be a point d'asperge omelette such as few kitchens could turn out, so don't be late."

Yeovil set out for his morning walk with the curious sensation of one who starts on a voyage
of discovery in a land that is well known to him.  He turned into the Park at Hyde Park corner
and made his way along the familiar paths and alleys that bordered the Row.  The familiarity
vanished when he left the region of fenced-in lawns and rhododendron bushes and came to the
open space that stretched away beyond the bandstand.  The bandstand was still there, and a
military band, in sky- blue Saxon uniform, was executing the first item in the forenoon programme
of music.  Around it, instead of the serried rows of green chairs that Yeovil remembered, was
spread out an acre or so of small round tables, most of which had their quota of customers,
engaged in a steady consumption of lager beer, coffee, lemonade and syrups.  Further in the
background, but well within earshot of the band, a gaily painted pagoda-restaurant sheltered
a number of more commodious tables under its awnings, and gave a hint of convenient indoor
accommodation for wet or windy weather.  Movable screens of trellis-trained foliage and climbing
roses formed little hedges by means of which any particular table could be shut off from its
neighbours if semi-privacy were desired.  One or two decorative advertisements of popularised
brands of champagne and Rhine wines adorned the outside walls of the building, and under the
central gable of its upper story was a flamboyant portrait of a stern-faced man, whose image
and superscription might also be found on the newer coinage of the land.  A mass of bunting
hung in folds round the flag-pole on the gable, and blew out now and then on a favouring breeze,
a long three-coloured strip, black, white, and scarlet, and over the whole scene the elm trees
towered with an absurd sardonic air of nothing having changed around their roots.

Yeovil stood for a minute or two, taking in every detail of the unfamiliar spectacle.

"They have certainly accomplished something that we never attempted," he muttered to himself.
Then he turned on his heel and made his way back to the shady walk that ran alongside the Row.
At first sight little was changed in the aspect of the well-known exercising ground.  One or
two riding masters cantered up and down as of yore, with their attendant broods of anxious-faced
young girls and awkwardly bumping women pupils, while horsey-looking men put marketable animals
through their paces or drew up to the rails for long conversations with horsey-looking friends
on foot.  Sportingly attired young women, sitting astride of their horses, careered by at intervals
as though an extremely game fox were leading hounds a merry chase a short way ahead of them;
it all seemed much as usual.

Presently, from the middle distance a bright patch of colour set in a whirl of dust drew rapidly
nearer and resolved itself into a group of cavalry officers extending their chargers in a smart
gallop.  They were well mounted and sat their horses to perfection, and they made a brave show
as they raced past Yeovil with a clink and clatter and rhythmic thud, thud, of hoofs, and became
once more a patch of colour in a whirl of dust.  An answering glow of colour seemed to have
burned itself into the grey face of the young man, who had seen them pass without appearing
to look at them, a stinging rush of blood, accompanied by a choking catch in the throat and
a hot white blindness across the eyes.  The weakness of fever broke down at times the rampart
of outward indifference that a man of Yeovil's temperament builds coldly round his heartstrings.

The Row and its riders had become suddenly detestable to the wanderer; he would not run the
risk of seeing that insolently joyous cavalcade come galloping past again.  Beyond a narrow
stretch of tree-shaded grass lay the placid sunlit water of the Serpentine, and Yeovil made
a short cut across the turf to reach its gravelled bank.

"Can't you read either English or German?" asked a policeman who confronted him as he stepped
off the turf.

Yeovil stared at the man and then turned to look at the small neatly-printed notice to which
the official was imperiously pointing; in two languages it was made known that it was forbidden
and verboten, punishable and straffbar, to walk on the grass.

"Three shilling fine," said the policeman, extending his hand for the money.

"Do I pay you?" asked Yeovil, feeling almost inclined to laugh; "I'm rather a stranger to the
new order of things."

"You pay me," said the policeman, "and you receive a quittance for the sum paid," and he proceeded
to tear a counterfoil receipt for a three shilling fine from a small pocket book.

"May I ask," said Yeovil, as he handed over the sum demanded and received his quittance, "what
the red and white band on your sleeve stands for?"

"Bi-lingual," said the constable, with an air of importance.  "Preference is given to members
of the Force who qualify in both languages.  Nearly all the police engaged on Park duty are
bi-lingual.  About as many foreigners as English use the parks nowadays; in fact, on a fine
Sunday afternoon, you'll find three foreigners to every two English.  The park habit is more
Continental than British, I take it."

"And are there many Germans in the police Force?" asked Yeovil.

"Well, yes, a good few; there had to be," said the constable; "there were such a lot of resignations
when the change came, and they had to be filled up somehow.  Lots of men what used to be in
the Force emigrated or found work of some other kind, but everybody couldn't take that line;
wives and children had to be thought of.  'Tisn't every head of a family that can chuck up
a job on the chance of finding another.  Starvation's been the lot of a good many what went
out.  Those of us that stayed on got better pay than we did before, but then of course the
duties are much more multitudinous."

"They must be," said Yeovil, fingering his three shilling State document; "by the way," he
asked, "are all the grass plots in the Park out of bounds for human feet?"

"Everywhere where you see the notices," said the policeman, "and that's about three-fourths
of the whole grass space; there's been a lot of new gravel walks opened up in all directions.
People don't want to walk on the grass when they've got clean paths to walk on."

And with this parting reproof the bi-lingual constable strode heavily away, his loss of consideration
and self-esteem as a unit of a sometime ruling race evidently compensated for to some extent
by his enhanced importance as an official.

"The women and children," thought Yeovil, as he looked after the retreating figure; "yes, that
is one side of the problem.  The children that have to be fed and schooled, the women folk
that have to be cared for, an old mother, perhaps, in the home that cannot be broken up.  The
old case of giving hostages."

He followed the path alongside the Serpentine, passing under the archway of the bridge and
continuing his walk into Kensington Gardens.  In another moment he was within view of the Peter
Pan statue and at once observed that it had companions.  On one side was a group representing
a scene from one of the Grimm fairy stories, on the other was Alice in conversation with Gryphon
and Mockturtle, the episode looking distressingly stiff and meaningless in its sculptured form.
Two other spaces had been cleared in the neighbouring turf, evidently for the reception of
further statue groups, which Yeovil mentally assigned to Struwelpeter and Little Lord Fauntleroy.

"German middle-class taste," he commented, "but in this matter we certainly gave them a lead.
I suppose the idea is that childish fancy is dead and that it is only decent to erect some
sort of memorial to it."

The day was growing hotter, and the Park had ceased to seem a desirable place to loiter in.
Yeovil turned his steps homeward, passing on his way the bandstand with its surrounding acreage
of tables.  It was now nearly one o'clock, and luncheon parties were beginning to assemble
under the awnings of the restaurant.  Lighter refreshments, in the shape of sausages and potato
salads, were being carried out by scurrying waiters to the drinkers of lager beer at the small
tables.  A park orchestra, in brilliant trappings, had taken the place of the military band.
As Yeovil passed the musicians launched out into the tune which the doctor had truly predicted
he would hear to repletion before he had been many days in London; the "National Anthem of
the fait accompli."

CHAPTER V: L'ART D'ETRE COUSINE

Joan Mardle had reached forty in the leisurely untroubled fashion of a woman who intends to
be comely and attractive at fifty.  She cultivated a jovial, almost joyous manner, with a top-dressing
of hearty good will and good nature which disarmed strangers and recent acquaintances; on getting
to know her better they hastily re-armed themselves.  Some one had once aptly described her
as a hedgehog with the protective mimicry of a puffball.  If there was an awkward remark to
be made at an inconvenient moment before undesired listeners, Joan invariably made it, and
when the occasion did not present itself she was usually capable of creating it. She was not
without a certain popularity, the sort of popularity that a dashing highwayman sometimes achieved
among those who were not in the habit of travelling on his particular highway.  A great-aunt
on her mother's side of the family had married so often that Joan imagined herself justified
in claiming cousin-ship with a large circle of disconnected houses, and treating them all on
a relationship footing, which theoretical kinship enabled her to exact luncheons and other
accommodations under the plea of keeping the lamp of family life aglow.

"I felt I simply had to come to-day," she chuckled at Yeovil; "I was just dying to see the
returned traveller.  Of course, I know perfectly well that neither of you want me, when you
haven't seen each other for so long and must have heaps and heaps to say to one another, but
I thought I would risk the odium of being the third person on an occasion when two are company
and three are a nuisance.  Wasn't it brave of me?"

She spoke in full knowledge of the fact that the luncheon party would not in any case have
been restricted to Yeovil and his wife, having seen Ronnie arrive in the hall as she was being
shown upstairs.

"Ronnie Storre is coming, I believe," said Cicely, "so you're not breaking into a tete-a-tete."

"Ronnie, oh I don't count him," said Joan gaily; "he's just a boy who looks nice and eats asparagus.
I hear he's getting to play the piano really well.  Such a pity.  He will grow fat; musicians
always do, and it will ruin him.  I speak feelingly because I'm gravitating towards plumpness
myself.  The Divine Architect turns us out fearfully and wonderfully built, and the result
is charming to the eye, and then He adds another chin and two or three extra inches round the
waist, and the effect is ruined.  Fortunately you can always find another Ronnie when this
one grows fat and uninteresting; the supply of boys who look nice and eat asparagus is unlimited.
Hullo, Mr. Storre, we were all talking about you."

"Nothing very damaging, I hope?" said Ronnie, who had just entered the room.

"No, we were merely deciding that, whatever you may do with your life, your chin must remain
single.  When one's chin begins to lead a double life one's own opportunities for depravity
are insensibly narrowed.  You needn't tell me that you haven't any hankerings after depravity;
people with your coloured eyes and hair are always depraved."

"Let me introduce you to my husband, Ronnie," said Cicely, "and then let's go and begin lunch."

"You two must almost feel as if you were honeymooning again," said Joan as they sat down; "you
must have quite forgotten each other's tastes and peculiarities since you last met.  Old Emily
Fronding was talking about you yesterday, when I mentioned that Murrey was expected home; 'curious
sort of marriage tie,' she said, in that stupid staring way of hers, 'when husband and wife
spend most of their time in different continents. I don't call it marriage at all.'  'Nonsense,'
I said, 'it's the best way of doing things.  The Yeovils will be a united and devoted couple
long after heaps of their married contemporaries have trundled through the Divorce Court.'
I forgot at the moment that her youngest girl had divorced her husband last year, and that
her second girl is rumoured to be contemplating a similar step.  One can't remember everything."

Joan Mardle was remarkable for being able to remember the smallest details in the family lives
of two or three hundred acquaintances.

From personal matters she went with a bound to the political small talk of the moment.

"The Official Declaration as to the House of Lords is out at last," she said; "I bought a paper
just before coming here, but I left it in the Tube.  All existing titles are to lapse if three
successive holders, including the present ones, fail to take the oath of allegiance."

"Have any taken it up to the present?" asked Yeovil.

"Only about nineteen, so far, and none of them representing very leading families; of course
others will come in gradually, as the change of Dynasty becomes more and more an accepted fact,
and of course there will be lots of new creations to fill up the gaps.  I hear for certain
that Pitherby is to get a title of some sort, in recognition of his literary labours.  He has
written a short history of the House of Hohenzollern, for use in schools you know, and he's
bringing out a popular Life of Frederick the Great--at least he hopes it will be popular."

"I didn't know that writing was much in his line," said Yeovil, "beyond the occasional editing
of a company prospectus."

"I understand his historical researches have given every satisfaction in exalted quarters,"
said Joan; "something may be lacking in the style, perhaps, but the august approval can make
good that defect with the style of Baron.  Pitherby has such a kind heart; 'kind hearts are
more than coronets,' we all know, but the two go quite well together.  And the dear man is
not content with his services to literature, he's blossoming forth as a liberal patron of the
arts.  He's taken quite a lot of tickets for dear Gorla's debut; half the second row of the
dress-circle."

"Do you mean Gorla Mustelford?" asked Yeovil, catching at the name; "what on earth is she having
a debut about?"

"What?" cried Joan, in loud-voiced amazement; "haven't you heard?  Hasn't Cicely told you?
How funny that you shouldn't have heard.  Why, it's going to be one of the events of the season.
Everybody's talking about it.  She's going to do suggestion dancing at the Caravansery Theatre."

"Good Heavens, what is suggestion dancing?" asked Yeovil.

"Oh, something quite new," explained Joan; "at any rate the name is quite new and Gorla is
new as far as the public are concerned, and that is enough to establish the novelty of the
thing.  Among other things she does a dance suggesting the life of a fern; I saw one of the
rehearsals, and to me it would have equally well suggested the life of John Wesley. However,
that is probably the fault of my imagination--I've either got too much or too little.  Anyhow
it is an understood thing that she is to take London by storm."

"When I last saw Gorla Mustelford," observed Yeovil, "she was a rather serious flapper who
thought the world was in urgent need of regeneration and was not certain whether she would
regenerate it or take up miniature painting.  I forget which she attempted ultimately."

"She is quite serious about her art," put in Cicely; "she's studied a good deal abroad and
worked hard at mastering the technique of her profession.  She's not a mere amateur with a
hankering after the footlights.  I fancy she will do well."

"But what do her people say about it?" asked Yeovil.

"Oh, they're simply furious about it," answered Joan; "the idea of a daughter of the house
of Mustelford prancing and twisting about the stage for Prussian officers and Hamburg Jews
to gaze at is a dreadful cup of humiliation for them.  It's unfortunate, of course, that they
should feel so acutely about it, but still one can understand their point of view."

"I don't see what other point of view they could possibly take," said Yeovil sharply; "if Gorla
thinks that the necessities of art, or her own inclinations, demand that she should dance in
public, why can't she do it in Paris or even Vienna?  Anywhere would be better, one would think,
than in London under present conditions."

He had given Joan the indication that she was looking for as to his attitude towards the fait
accompli.  Without asking a question she had discovered that husband and wife were divided
on the fundamental issue that underlay all others at the present moment.  Cicely was weaving
social schemes for the future, Yeovil had come home in a frame of mind that threatened the
destruction of those schemes, or at any rate a serious hindrance to their execution.  The situation
presented itself to Joan's mind with an alluring piquancy.

"You are giving a grand supper-party for Gorla on the night of her debut, aren't you?" she
asked Cicely; "several people spoke to me about it, so I suppose it must be true."

Tony Luton and young Storre had taken care to spread the news of the projected supper function,
in order to ensure against a change of plans on Cicely's part.

"Gorla is a great friend of mine," said Cicely, trying to talk as if the conversation had taken
a perfectly indifferent turn; "also I think she deserves a little encouragement after the hard
work she has been through. I thought it would be doing her a kindness to arrange a supper party
for her on her first night."

There was a moment's silence.  Yeovil said nothing, and Joan understood the value of being
occasionally tongue-tied.

"The whole question is," continued Cicely, as the silence became oppressive, "whether one is
to mope and hold aloof from the national life, or take our share in it; the life has got to
go on whether we participate in it or not.  It seems to me to be more patriotic to come down
into the dust of the marketplace than to withdraw oneself behind walls or beyond the seas."

"Of course the industrial life of the country has to go on," said Yeovil; "no one could criticise
Gorla if she interested herself in organising cottage industries or anything of that sort,
in which she would be helping her own people.  That one could understand, but I don't think
a cosmopolitan concern like the music-hall business calls for personal sacrifices from young
women of good family at a moment like the present."

"It is just at a moment like the present that the people want something to interest them and
take them out of themselves," said Cicely argumentatively; "what has happened, has happened,
and we can't undo it or escape the consequences.  What we can do, or attempt to do, is to make
things less dreary, and make people less unhappy."

"In a word, more contented," said Yeovil; "if I were a German statesman, that is the end I
would labour for and encourage others to labour for, to make the people forget that they were
discontented.  All this work of regalvanising the social side of London life may be summed
up in the phrase 'travailler pour le roi de Prusse.'"

"I don't think there is any use in discussing the matter further," said Cicely.

"I can see that grand supper-party not coming off," said Joan provocatively.

Ronnie looked anxiously at Cicely.

"You can see it coming on, if you're gifted with prophetic vision of a reliable kind," said
Cicely; "of course as Murrey doesn't take kindly to the idea of Gorla's enterprise I won't
have the party here.  I'll give it at a restaurant, that's all.  I can see Murrey's point of
view, and sympathise with it, but I'm not going to throw Gorla over."

There was another pause of uncomfortably protracted duration.

"I say, this is a top-hole omelette," said Ronnie.

It was his only contribution to the conversation, but it was a valuable one.

CHAPTER VI: HERR VON KWARL

Herr Von Kwarl sat at his favourite table in the Brandenburg Cafe, the new building that made
such an imposing show (and did such thriving business) at the lower end of what most of its
patrons called the Regentstrasse.  Though the establishment was new it had already achieved
its unwritten code of customs, and the sanctity of Herr von Kwarl's specially reserved table
had acquired the authority of a tradition.  A set of chessmen, a copy of the Kreuz Zeitung
and the Times, and a slim- necked bottle of Rhenish wine, ice-cool from the cellar, were always
to be found there early in the forenoon, and the honoured guest for whom these preparations
were made usually arrived on the scene shortly after eleven o'clock.  For an hour or so he
would read and silently digest the contents of his two newspapers, and then at the first sign
of flagging interest on his part, another of the cafe's regular customers would march across
the floor, exchange a word or two on the affairs of the day, and be bidden with a wave of the
hand into the opposite seat.  A waiter would instantly place the chessboard with its marshalled
ranks of combatants in the required position, and the contest would begin.

Herr von Kwarl was a heavily built man of mature middle-age, of the blond North-German type,
with a facial aspect that suggested stupidity and brutality.  The stupidity of his mien masked
an ability and shrewdness that was distinctly above the average, and the suggestion of brutality
was belied by the fact that von Kwarl was as kind-hearted a man as one could meet with in a
day's journey.  Early in life, almost before he was in his teens, Fritz von Kwarl had made
up his mind to accept the world as it was, and to that philosophical resolution, steadfastly
adhered to, he attributed his excellent digestion and his unruffled happiness.  Perhaps he
confused cause and effect; the excellent digestion may have been responsible for at least some
of the philosophical serenity.

He was a bachelor of the type that is called confirmed, and which might better be labelled
consecrated; from his early youth onward to his present age he had never had the faintest flickering
intention of marriage.  Children and animals he adored, women and plants he accounted somewhat
of a nuisance.  A world without women and roses and asparagus would, he admitted, be robbed
of much of its charm, but with all their charm these things were tiresome and thorny and capricious,
always wanting to climb or creep in places where they were not wanted, and resolutely drooping
and fading away when they were desired to flourish. Animals, on the other hand, accepted the
world as it was and made the best of it, and children, at least nice children, uncontaminated
by grown- up influences, lived in worlds of their own making.

Von Kwarl held no acknowledged official position in the country of his residence, but it was
an open secret that those responsible for the real direction of affairs sought his counsel
on nearly every step that they meditated, and that his counsel was very rarely disregarded.
Some of the shrewdest and most successful enactments of the ruling power were believed to have
originated in the brain-cells of the bovine-fronted Stammgast of the Brandenburg Cafe.

Around the wood-panelled walls of the Cafe were set at intervals well- mounted heads of boar,
elk, stag, roe-buck, and other game-beasts of a northern forest, while in between were carved
armorial escutcheons of the principal cities of the lately expanded realm, Magdeburg, Manchester,
Hamburg, Bremen, Bristol, and so forth.  Below these came shelves on which stood a wonderful
array of stone beer-mugs, each decorated with some fantastic device or motto, and most of them
pertaining individually and sacredly to some regular and unfailing customer.  In one particular
corner of the highest shelf, greatly at his ease and in nowise to be disturbed, slept Wotan,
the huge grey house-cat, dreaming doubtless of certain nimble and audacious mice down in the
cellar three floors below, whose nimbleness and audacity were as precious to him as the forwardness
of the birds is to a skilled gun on a grouse moor.  Once every day Wotan came marching in stately
fashion across the polished floor, halted mid- way to resume an unfinished toilet operation,
and then proceeded to pay his leisurely respects to his friend von Kwarl.  The latter was said
to be prouder of this daily demonstration of esteem than of his many coveted orders of merit.
Several of his friends and acquaintances shared with him the distinction of having achieved
the Black Eagle, but not one of them had ever succeeded in obtaining the slightest recognition
of their existence from Wotan.

The daily greeting had been exchanged and the proud grey beast had marched away to the music
of a slumberous purr.  The Kreuz Zeitung and the Times underwent a final scrutiny and were
pushed aside, and von Kwarl glanced aimlessly out at the July sunshine bathing the walls and
windows of the Piccadilly Hotel.  Herr Rebinok, the plump little Pomeranian banker, stepped
across the floor, almost as noiselessly as Wotan had done, though with considerably less grace,
and some half-minute later was engaged in sliding pawns and knights and bishops to and fro
on the chess- board in a series of lightning moves bewildering to look on.  Neither he nor
his opponent played with the skill that they severally brought to bear on banking and statecraft,
nor did they conduct their game with the politeness that they punctiliously observed in other
affairs of life.  A running fire of contemptuous remarks and aggressive satire accompanied
each move, and the mere record of the conversation would have given an uninitiated onlooker
the puzzling impression that an easy and crushing victory was assured to both the players.

"Aha, he is puzzled.  Poor man, he doesn't know what to do . . .  Oho, he thinks he will move
there, does he?  Much good that will do him. . . . Never have I seen such a mess as he is in
. . . he cannot do anything, he is absolutely helpless, helpless."

"Ah, you take my bishop, do you?  Much I care for that.  Nothing.  See, I give you check. 
Ah, now he is in a fright!  He doesn't know where to go. What a mess he is in . . . "

So the game proceeded, with a brisk exchange of pieces and incivilities and a fluctuation of
fortunes, till the little banker lost his queen as the result of an incautious move, and, after
several woebegone contortions of his shoulders and hands, declined further contest.  A sleek-headed
piccolo rushed forward to remove the board, and the erstwhile combatants resumed the courteous
dignity that they discarded in their chess-playing moments.

"Have you seen the Germania to-day?" asked Herr Rebinok, as soon as the boy had receded to
a respectful distance.

"No," said von Kwarl, "I never see the Germania.  I count on you to tell me if there is anything
noteworthy in it."

"It has an article to-day headed, 'Occupation or Assimilation,'" said the banker.  "It is of
some importance, and well written.  It is very pessimistic."

"Catholic papers are always pessimistic about the things of this world," said von Kwarl, "just
as they are unduly optimistic about the things of the next world.  What line does it take?"

"It says that our conquest of Britain can only result in a temporary occupation, with a 'notice
to quit' always hanging over our heads; that we can never hope to assimilate the people of
these islands in our Empire as a sort of maritime Saxony or Bavaria, all the teaching of history
is against it; Saxony and Bavaria are part of the Empire because of their past history.  England
is being bound into the Empire in spite of her past history; and so forth."

"The writer of the article has not studied history very deeply," said von Kwarl.  "The impossible
thing that he speaks of has been done before, and done in these very islands, too.  The Norman
Conquest became an assimilation in comparatively few generations."

"Ah, in those days, yes," said the banker, "but the conditions were altogether different. 
There was not the rapid transmission of news and the means of keeping the public mind instructed
in what was happening; in fact, one can scarcely say that the public mind was there to instruct.
There was not the same strong bond of brotherhood between men of the same nation that exists
now.  Northumberland was almost as foreign to Devon or Kent as Normandy was.  And the Church
in those days was a great international factor, and the Crusades bound men together fighting
under one leader for a common cause.  Also there was not a great national past to be forgotten
as there is in this case."

"There are many factors, certainly, that are against us," conceded the statesman, "but you
must also take into account those that will help us. In most cases in recent history where
the conquered have stood out against all attempts at assimilation, there has been a religious
difference to add to the racial one--take Poland, for instance, and the Catholic parts of Ireland.
If the Bretons ever seriously begin to assert their nationality as against the French, it will
be because they have remained more Catholic in practice and sentiment than their neighbours.
Here there is no such complication; we are in the bulk a Protestant nation with a Catholic
minority, and the same may be said of the British. Then in modern days there is the alchemy
of Sport and the Drama to bring men of different races amicably together.  One or two sportsmanlike
Germans in a London football team will do more to break down racial antagonism than anything
that Governments or Councils can effect.  As for the Stage, it has long been international
in its tendencies.  You can see that every day."

The banker nodded his head.

"London is not our greatest difficulty," continued von Kwarl.  "You must remember the steady
influx of Germans since the war; whole districts are changing the complexion of their inhabitants,
and in some streets you might almost fancy yourself in a German town.  We can scarcely hope
to make much impression on the country districts and the provincial towns at present, but you
must remember that thousands and thousands of the more virile and restless-souled men have
emigrated, and thousands more will follow their example.  We shall fill up their places with
our own surplus population, as the Teuton races colonised England in the old pre-Christian
days.  That is better, is it not, to people the fat meadows of the Thames valley and the healthy
downs and uplands of Sussex and Berkshire than to go hunting for elbow-room among the flies
and fevers of the tropics?  We have somewhere to go to, now, better than the scrub and the
veldt and the thorn-jungles."

"Of course, of course," assented Herr Rebinok, "but while this desirable process of infiltration
and assimilation goes on, how are you going to provide against the hostility of the conquered
nation?  A people with a great tradition behind them and the ruling instinct strongly developed,
won't sit with their eyes closed and their hands folded while you carry on the process of Germanisation.
What will keep them quiet?"

"The hopelessness of the situation.  For centuries Britain has ruled the seas, and been able
to dictate to half the world in consequence; then she let slip the mastery of the seas, as
something too costly and onerous to keep up, something which aroused too much jealousy and
uneasiness in others, and now the seas rule her.  Every wave that breaks on her shore rattles
the keys of her prison.  I am no fire-eater, Herr Rebinok, but I confess that when I am at
Dover, say, or Southampton, and see those dark blots on the sea and those grey specks in the
sky, our battleships and cruisers and aircraft, and realise what they mean to us my heart beats
just a little quicker.  If every German was flung out of England to-morrow, in three weeks'
time we should be coming in again on our own terms.  With our sea scouts and air scouts spread
in organised network around, not a shipload of foodstuff could reach the country.  They know
that; they can calculate how many days of independence and starvation they could endure, and
they will make no attempt to bring about such a certain fiasco.  Brave men fight for a forlorn
hope, but the bravest do not fight for an issue they know to be hopeless."

"That is so," said Herr Rebinok, "as things are at present they can do nothing from within,
absolutely nothing.  We have weighed all that beforehand.  But, as the Germania points out,
there is another Britain beyond the seas.  Supposing the Court at Delhi were to engineer a
league--"

"A league?  A league with whom?" interrupted the statesman.  "Russia we can watch and hold.
We are rather nearer to its western frontier than Delhi is, and we could throttle its Baltic
trade at five hours' notice. France and Holland are not inclined to provoke our hostility;
they would have everything to lose by such a course."

"There are other forces in the world that might be arrayed against us," argued the banker;
"the United States, Japan, Italy, they all have navies."

"Does the teaching of history show you that it is the strong Power, armed and ready, that has
to suffer from the hostility of the world?" asked von Kwarl.  "As far as sentiment goes, perhaps,
but not in practice.  The danger has always been for the weak, dismembered nation.  Think you
a moment, has the enfeebled scattered British Empire overseas no undefended territories that
are a temptation to her neighbours?  Has Japan nothing to glean where we have harvested?  Are
there no North American possessions which might slip into other keeping?  Has Russia herself
no traditional temptations beyond the Oxus?  Mind you, we are not making the mistake Napoleon
made, when he forced all Europe to be for him or against him.  We threaten no world aggressions,
we are satiated where he was insatiable.  We have cast down one overshadowing Power from the
face of the world, because it stood in our way, but we have made no attempt to spread our branches
over all the space that it covered.  We have not tried to set up a tributary Canadian republic
or to partition South Africa; we have dreamed no dream of making ourselves Lords of Hindostan.
On the contrary, we have given proof of our friendly intentions towards our neighbours.  We
backed France up the other day in her squabble with Spain over the Moroccan boundaries, and
proclaimed our opinion that the Republic had as indisputable a mission on the North Africa
coast as we have in the North Sea.  That is not the action or the language of aggression. 
No," continued von Kwarl, after a moment's silence, "the world may fear us and dislike us,
but, for the present at any rate, there will be no leagues against us.  No, there is one rock
on which our attempt at assimilation will founder or find firm anchorage."

"And that is--?"

"The youth of the country, the generation that is at the threshold now. It is them that we
must capture.  We must teach them to learn, and coax them to forget.  In course of time Anglo-Saxon
may blend with German, as the Elbe Saxons and the Bavarians and Swabians have blended with
the Prussians into a loyal united people under the sceptre of the Hohenzollerns.  Then we should
be doubly strong, Rome and Carthage rolled into one, an Empire of the West greater than Charlemagne
ever knew.  Then we could look Slav and Latin and Asiatic in the face and keep our place as
the central dominant force of the civilised world."

The speaker paused for a moment and drank a deep draught of wine, as though he were invoking
the prosperity of that future world-power.  Then he resumed in a more level tone:

"On the other hand, the younger generation of Britons may grow up in hereditary hatred, repulsing
all our overtures, forgetting nothing and forgiving nothing, waiting and watching for the time
when some weakness assails us, when some crisis entangles us, when we cannot be everywhere
at once.  Then our work will be imperilled, perhaps undone.  There lies the danger, there lies
the hope, the younger generation."

"There is another danger," said the banker, after he had pondered over von Kwarl's remarks
for a moment or two amid the incense-clouds of a fat cigar; "a danger that I foresee in the
immediate future; perhaps not so much a danger as an element of exasperation which may ultimately
defeat your plans.  The law as to military service will have to be promulgated shortly, and
that cannot fail to be bitterly unpopular.  The people of these islands will have to be brought
into line with the rest of the Empire in the matter of military training and military service,
and how will they like that?  Will not the enforcing of such a measure enfuriate them against
us?  Remember, they have made great sacrifices to avoid the burden of military service."

"Dear God," exclaimed Herr von Kwarl, "as you say, they have made sacrifices on that altar!"

CHAPTER VII: THE LURE

Cicely had successfully insisted on having her own way concerning the projected supper-party;
Yeovil had said nothing further in opposition to it, whatever his feelings on the subject might
be.  Having gained her point, however, she was anxious to give her husband the impression of
having been consulted, and to put her victory as far as possible on the footing of a compromise.
It was also rather a relief to be able to discuss the matter out of range of Joan's disconcerting
tongue and observant eyes.

"I hope you are not really annoyed about this silly supper-party," she said on the morning
before the much-talked-of first night.  "I had pledged myself to give it, so I couldn't back
out without seeming mean to Gorla, and in any case it would have been impolitic to cry off."

"Why impolitic?" asked Yeovil coldly.

"It would give offence in quarters where I don't want to give offence," said Cicely.

"In quarters where the fait accompli is an object of solicitude," said Yeovil.

"Look here," said Cicely in her most disarming manner, "it's just as well to be perfectly frank
about the whole matter.  If one wants to live in the London of the present day one must make
up one's mind to accept the fait accompli with as good a grace as possible.  I do want to live
in London, and I don't want to change my way of living and start under different conditions
in some other place.  I can't face the prospect of tearing up my life by the roots; I feel
certain that I shouldn't bear transplanting.  I can't imagine myself recreating my circle of
interests in some foreign town or colonial centre or even in a country town in England.  India
I couldn't stand.  London is not merely a home to me, it is a world, and it happens to be just
the world that suits me and that I am suited to.  The German occupation, or whatever one likes
to call it, is a calamity, but it's not like a molten deluge from Vesuvius that need send us
all scuttling away from another Pompeii.  Of course," she added, "there are things that jar
horribly on one, even when one has got more or less accustomed to them, but one must just learn
to be philosophical and bear them."

"Supposing they are not bearable?" said Yeovil; "during the few days that I've been in the
land I've seen things that I cannot imagine will ever be bearable."

"That is because they're new to you," said Cicely.

"I don't wish that they should ever come to seem bearable," retorted Yeovil.  "I've been bred
and reared as a unit of a ruling race; I don't want to find myself settling down resignedly
as a member of an enslaved one."

"There's no need to make things out worse than they are," protested Cicely.  "We've had a military
disaster on a big scale, and there's been a great political dislocation in consequence.  But
there's no reason why everything shouldn't right itself in time, as it has done after other
similar disasters in the history of nations.  We are not scattered to the winds or wiped off
the face of the earth, we are still an important racial unit."

"A racial unit in a foreign Empire," commented Yeovil.

"We may arrive at the position of being the dominant factor in that Empire," said Cicely, "impressing
our national characteristics on it, and perhaps dictating its dynastic future and the whole
trend of its policy. Such things have happened in history.  Or we may become strong enough
to throw off the foreign connection at a moment when it can be done effectually and advantageously.
But meanwhile it is necessary to preserve our industrial life and our social life, and for
that reason we must accommodate ourselves to present circumstances, however distasteful they
may be.  Emigration to some colonial wilderness, or holding ourselves rigidly aloof from the
life of the capital, won't help matters. Really, Murrey, if you will think things over a bit,
you will see that the course I am following is the one dictated by sane patriotism."

"Whom the gods wish to render harmless they first afflict with sanity," said Yeovil bitterly.
"You may be content to wait for a hundred years or so, for this national revival to creep and
crawl us back into a semblance of independence and world-importance.  I'm afraid I haven't
the patience or the philosophy to sit down comfortably and wait for a change of fortune that
won't come in my time--if it comes at all."

Cicely changed the drift of the conversation; she had only introduced the argument for the
purpose of defining her point of view and accustoming Yeovil to it, as one leads a nervous
horse up to an unfamiliar barrier that he is required eventually to jump.

"In any case," she said, "from the immediately practical standpoint England is the best place
for you till you have shaken off all traces of that fever.  Pass the time away somehow till
the hunting begins, and then go down to the East Wessex country; they are looking out for a
new master after this season, and if you were strong enough you might take it on for a while.
You could go to Norway for fishing in the summer and hunt the East Wessex in the winter.  I'll
come down and do a bit of hunting too, and we'll have house-parties, and get a little golf
in between whiles.  It will be like old times."

Yeovil looked at his wife and laughed.

"Who was that old fellow who used to hunt his hounds regularly through the fiercest times of
the great Civil War?  There is a picture of him, by Caton Woodville, I think, leading his pack
between King Charles's army and the Parliament forces just as some battle was going to begin.
I have often thought that the King must have disliked him rather more than he disliked the
men who were in arms against him; they at least cared, one way or the other.  I fancy that
old chap would have a great many imitators nowadays, though, when it came to be a question
of sport against soldiering.  I don't know whether anyone has said it, but one might almost
assert that the German victory was won on the golf-links of Britain."

"I don't see why you should saddle one particular form of sport with a special responsibility,"
protested Cicely.

"Of course not," said Yeovil, "except that it absorbed perhaps more of the energy and attention
of the leisured class than other sports did, and in this country the leisured class was the
only bulwark we had against official indifference.  The working classes had a big share of
the apathy, and, indirectly, a greater share of the responsibility, because the voting power
was in their hands.  They had not the leisure, however, to sit down and think clearly what
the danger was; their own industrial warfare was more real to them than anything that was threatening
from the nation that they only knew from samples of German clerks and German waiters."

"In any case," said Cicely, "as regards the hunting, there is no Civil War or national war
raging just now, and there is no immediate likelihood of one.  A good many hunting seasons
will have to come and go before we can think of a war of independence as even a distant possibility,
and in the meantime hunting and horse-breeding and country sports generally are the things
most likely to keep Englishmen together on the land.  That is why so many men who hate the
German occupation are trying to keep field sports alive, and in the right hands.  However,
I won't go on arguing. You and I always think things out for ourselves and decide for ourselves,
which is much the best way in the long run."

Cicely slipped away to her writing-room to make final arrangements over the telephone for the
all-important supper-party, leaving Yeovil to turn over in his mind the suggestion that she
had thrown out.  It was an obvious lure, a lure to draw him away from the fret and fury that
possessed him so inconveniently, but its obvious nature did not detract from its effectiveness.
Yeovil had pleasant recollections of the East Wessex, a cheery little hunt that afforded good
sport in an unpretentious manner, a joyous thread of life running through a rather sleepy countryside,
like a merry brook careering through a placid valley.  For a man coming slowly and yet eagerly
back to the activities of life from the weariness of a long fever, the prospect of a leisurely
season with the East Wessex was singularly attractive, and side by side with its attractiveness
there was a tempting argument in favour of yielding to its attractions.  Among the small squires
and yeoman farmers, doctors, country tradesmen, auctioneers and so forth who would gather at
the covert-side and at the hunt breakfasts, there might be a local nucleus of revolt against
the enslavement of the land, a discouraged and leaderless band waiting for some one to mould
their resistance into effective shape and keep their loyalty to the old dynasty and the old
national cause steadily burning.  Yeovil could see himself taking up that position, stimulating
the spirit of hostility to the fait accompli, organising stubborn opposition to every Germanising
influence that was brought into play, schooling the youth of the countryside to look steadily
Delhiward. That was the bait that Yeovil threw out to his conscience, while slowly considering
the other bait that was appealing so strongly to his senses. The dry warm scent of the stable,
the nip of the morning air, the pleasant squelch-squelch of the saddle leather, the moist earthy
fragrance of the autumn woods and wet fallows, the cold white mists of winter days, the whimper
of hounds and the hot restless pushing of the pack through ditch and hedgerow and undergrowth,
the birds that flew up and clucked and chattered as you passed, the hearty greeting and pleasant
gossip in farmhouse kitchens and market-day bar-parlours--all these remembered delights of
the chase marshalled themselves in the brain, and made a cumulative appeal that came with special
intensity to a man who was a little tired of his wanderings, more than a little drawn away
from the jarring centres of life.  The hot London sunshine baking the soot- grimed walls and
the ugly incessant hoot and grunt of the motor traffic gave an added charm to the vision of
hill and hollow and copse that flickered in Yeovil's mind.  Slowly, with a sensuous lingering
over detail, his imagination carried him down to a small, sleepy, yet withal pleasantly bustling
market town, and placed him unerringly in a wide straw-littered yard, half-full of men and
quarter-full of horses, with a bob-tailed sheep-dog or two trying not to get in everybody's
way, but insisting on being in the thick of things.  The horses gradually detached themselves
from the crowd of unimportant men and came one by one into momentary prominence, to be discussed
and appraised for their good points and bad points, and finally to be bid for.  And always
there was one horse that detached itself conspicuously from the rest, the ideal hunter, or
at any rate, Yeovil's ideal of the ideal hunter.  Mentally it was put through its paces before
him, its pedigree and brief history recounted to him; mentally he saw a stable lad put it over
a jump or two, with credit to all concerned, and inevitably he saw himself outbidding less
discerning rivals and securing the desired piece of horseflesh, to be the chief glory and mainstay
of his hunting stable, to carry him well and truly and cleverly through many a joyous long-to-be-remembered
run.  That scene had been one of the recurring half-waking dreams of his long days of weakness
in the far-away Finnish nursing-home, a dream sometimes of tantalising mockery, sometimes of
pleasure in the foretaste of a joy to come.  And now it need scarcely be a dream any longer,
he had only to go down at the right moment and take an actual part in his oft-rehearsed vision.
Everything would be there, exactly as his imagination had placed it, even down to the bob-tailed
sheep-dogs; the horse of his imagining would be there waiting for him, or if not absolutely
the ideal animal, something very like it.  He might even go beyond the limits of his dream
and pick up a couple of desirable animals--there would probably be fewer purchasers for good
class hunters in these days than of yore.  And with the coming of this reflection his dream
faded suddenly and his mind came back with a throb of pain to the things he had for the moment
forgotten, the weary, hateful things that were symbolised for him by the standard that floated
yellow and black over the frontage of Buckingham Palace.

Yeovil wandered down to his snuggery, a mood of listless dejection possessing him.  He fidgetted
aimlessly with one or two books and papers, filled a pipe, and half filled a waste-paper basket
with torn circulars and accumulated writing-table litter.  Then he lit the pipe and settled
down in his most comfortable armchair with an old note-book in his hand. It was a sort of disjointed
diary, running fitfully through the winter months of some past years, and recording noteworthy
days with the East Wessex.

And over the telephone Cicely talked and arranged and consulted with men and women to whom
the joys of a good gallop or the love of a stricken fatherland were as letters in an unknown
alphabet.

CHAPTER VIII: THE FIRST-NIGHT

Huge posters outside the Caravansery Theatre of Varieties announced the first performance of
the uniquely interesting Suggestion Dances, interpreted by the Hon. Gorla Mustelford.  An impressionist
portrait of a rather severe-looking young woman gave the public some idea of what the danseuse
might be like in appearance, and the further information was added that her performance was
the greatest dramatic event of the season. Yet another piece of information was conveyed to
the public a few minutes after the doors had opened, in the shape of large notices bearing
the brief announcement, "house full."  For the first-night function most of the seats had been
reserved for specially-invited guests or else bespoken by those who considered it due to their
own importance to be visible on such an occasion.

Even at the commencement of the ordinary programme of the evening (Gorla was not due to appear
till late in the list) the theatre was crowded with a throng of chattering, expectant human
beings; it seemed as though every one had come early to see every one else arrive.  As a matter
of fact it was the rumour-heralded arrival of one personage in particular that had drawn people
early to their seats and given a double edge to the expectancy of the moment.

At first sight and first hearing the bulk of the audience seemed to comprise representatives
of the chief European races in well-distributed proportions, but if one gave it closer consideration
it could be seen that the distribution was geographically rather than ethnographically diversified.
Men and women there were from Paris, Munich, Rome, Moscow and Vienna, from Sweden and Holland
and divers other cities and countries, but in the majority of cases the Jordan Valley had supplied
their forefathers with a common cradle-ground.  The lack of a fire burning on a national altar
seemed to have drawn them by universal impulse to the congenial flare of the footlights, whether
as artists, producers, impresarios, critics, agents, go-betweens, or merely as highly intelligent
and fearsomely well-informed spectators.  They were prominent in the chief seats, they were
represented, more sparsely but still in fair numbers, in the cheaper places, and everywhere
they were voluble, emphatic, sanguine or sceptical, prodigal of word and gesture, with eyes
that seemed to miss nothing and acknowledge nothing, and a general restless dread of not being
seen and noticed.  Of the theatre-going London public there was also a fair muster, more particularly
centred in the less expensive parts of the house, while in boxes, stalls and circles a sprinkling
of military uniforms gave an unfamiliar tone to the scene in the eyes of those who had not
previously witnessed a first-night performance under the new conditions.

Yeovil, while standing aloof from his wife's participation in this social event, had made private
arrangements for being a personal spectator of the scene; as one of the ticket-buying public
he had secured a seat in the back row of a low-priced gallery, whence he might watch, observant
and unobserved, the much talked-of debut of Gorla Mustelford, and the writing of a new chapter
in the history of the fait accompli.  Around him he noticed an incessant undercurrent of jangling
laughter, an unending give-and-take of meaningless mirthless jest and catchword.  He had noticed
the same thing in streets and public places since his arrival in London, a noisy, empty interchange
of chaff and laughter that he had been at a loss to account for.  The Londoner is not well
adapted for the irresponsible noisiness of jesting tongue that bubbles up naturally in a Southern
race, and the effort to be volatile was the more noticeable because it so obviously was an
effort.  Turning over the pages of a book that told the story of Bulgarian social life in the
days of Turkish rule, Yeovil had that morning come across a passage that seemed to throw some
light on the thing that had puzzled him:

"Bondage has this one advantage: it makes a nation merry.  Where far-reaching ambition has
no scope for its development the community squanders its energy on the trivial and personal
cares of its daily life, and seeks relief and recreation in simple and easily obtained material
enjoyment."  The writer was a man who had known bondage, so he spoke at any rate with authority.
Of the London of the moment it could not, however, be said with any truth that it was merry,
but merely that its inhabitants made desperate endeavour not to appear crushed under their
catastrophe.  Surrounded as he was now with a babble of tongues and shrill mechanical repartee,
Yeovil's mind went back to the book and its account of a theatre audience in the Turkish days
of Bulgaria, with its light and laughing crowd of critics and spectators.  Bulgaria!  The thought
of that determined little nation came to him with a sharp sense of irony.  There was a people
who had not thought it beneath the dignity of their manhood to learn the trade and discipline
of arms.  They had their reward; torn and exhausted and debt-encumbered from their campaigns,
they were masters in their own house, the Bulgarian flag flew over the Bulgarian mountains.
And Yeovil stole a glance at the crown of Charlemagne set over the Royal box.

In a capacious box immediately opposite the one set aside for royalty the Lady Shalem sat in
well-considered prominence, confident that every press critic and reporter would note her presence,
and that one or two of them would describe, or misdescribe, her toilet.  Already quite a considerable
section of the audience knew her by name, and the frequency with which she graciously nodded
towards various quarters of the house suggested the presence of a great many personal acquaintances.
She had attained to that desirable feminine altitude of purse and position when people who
go about everywhere know you well by sight and have never met your dress before.

Lady Shalem was a woman of commanding presence, of that type which suggests a consciousness
that the command may not necessarily be obeyed; she had observant eyes and a well-managed voice.
Her successes in life had been worked for, but they were also to some considerable extent the
result of accident.  Her public history went back to the time when, in the person of her husband,
Mr. Conrad Dort, she had contested two hopeless and very expensive Parliamentary elections
on behalf of her party; on each occasion the declaration of the poll had shown a heavy though
reduced majority on the wrong side, but she might have perpetrated an apt misquotation of the
French monarch's traditional message after the defeat of Pavia, and assured the world "all
is lost save honours."  The forthcoming Honours List had duly proclaimed the fact that Conrad
Dort, Esquire, had entered Parliament by another door as Baron Shalem, of Wireskiln, in the
county of Suffolk.  Success had crowned the lady's efforts as far as the achievement of the
title went, but her social ambitions seemed unlikely to make further headway.  The new Baron
and his wife, their title and money notwithstanding, did not "go down" in their particular
segment of county society, and in London there were other titles and incomes to compete with.
People were willing to worship the Golden Calf, but allowed themselves a choice of altars.
No one could justly say that the Shalems were either oppressively vulgar or insufferably bumptious;
probably the chief reason for their lack of popularity was their intense and obvious desire
to be popular.  They kept open house in such an insistently open manner that they created a
social draught.  The people who accepted their invitations for the second or third time were
not the sort of people whose names gave importance to a dinner party or a house gathering.
Failure, in a thinly-disguised form, attended the assiduous efforts of the Shalems to play
a leading role in the world that they had climbed into.  The Baron began to observe to his
acquaintances that "gadding about" and entertaining on a big scale was not much in his line;
a quiet after-dinner pipe and talk with some brother legislator was his ideal way of spending
an evening.

Then came the great catastrophe, involving the old order of society in the national overthrow.
Lady Shalem, after a decent interval of patriotic mourning, began to look around her and take
stock of her chances and opportunities under the new regime.  It was easier to achieve distinction
as a titled oasis in the social desert that London had become than it had been to obtain recognition
as a new growth in a rather overcrowded field.  The observant eyes and agile brain quickly
noted this circumstance, and her ladyship set to work to adapt herself to the altered conditions
that governed her world.  Lord Shalem was one of the few Peers who kissed the hand of the new
Sovereign, his wife was one of the few hostesses who attempted to throw a semblance of gaiety
and lavish elegance over the travesty of a London season following the year of disaster.  The
world of tradesmen and purveyors and caterers, and the thousands who were dependent on them
for employment, privately blessed the example set by Shalem House, whatever their feelings
might be towards the fait accompli, and the august newcomer who had added an old Saxon kingdom
and some of its accretions to the Teutonic realm of Charlemagne was duly beholden to an acquired
subject who was willing to forget the bitterness of defeat and to help others to forget it
also.  Among other acts of Imperial recognition an earldom was being held in readiness for
the Baron who had known how to accept accomplished facts with a good grace.  One of the wits
of the Cockatrice Club had asserted that the new earl would take as supporters for his coat
of arms a lion and a unicorn oublie.

In the box with Lady Shalem was the Grafin von Tolb, a well-dressed woman of some fifty-six
years, comfortable and placid in appearance, yet alert withal, rather suggesting a thoroughly
wide-awake dormouse.  Rich, amiable and intelligent were the adjectives which would best have
described her character and her life-story.  In her own rather difficult social circle at Paderborn
she had earned for herself the reputation of being one of the most tactful and discerning hostesses
in Germany, and it was generally suspected that she had come over and taken up her residence
in London in response to a wish expressed in high quarters; the lavish hospitality which she
dispensed at her house in Berkeley Square was a considerable reinforcement to the stricken
social life of the metropolis.

In a neighbouring box Cicely Yeovil presided over a large and lively party, which of course
included Ronnie Storre, who was for once in a way in a chattering mood, and also included an
American dowager, who had never been known to be in anything else.  A tone of literary distinction
was imparted to the group by the presence of Augusta Smith, better known under her pen-name
of Rhapsodic Pantril, author of a play that had had a limited but well-advertised success in
Sheffield and the United States of America, author also of a book of reminiscences, entitled
"Things I Cannot Forget."  She had beautiful eyes, a knowledge of how to dress, and a pleasant
disposition, cankered just a little by a perpetual dread of the non-recognition of her genius.
As the woman, Augusta Smith, she probably would have been unreservedly happy; as the super-woman,
Rhapsodic Pantril, she lived within the border-line of discontent.  Her most ordinary remarks
were framed with the view of arresting attention; some one once said of her that she ordered
a sack of potatoes with the air of one who is making enquiry for a love-philtre.

"Do you see what colour the curtain is?" she asked Cicely, throwing a note of intense meaning
into her question.

Cicely turned quickly and looked at the drop-curtain.

"Rather a nice blue," she said.

"Alexandrine blue--my colour--the colour of hope," said Rhapsodie impressively.

"It goes well with the general colour-scheme," said Cicely, feeling that she was hardly rising
to the occasion.

"Say, is it really true that His Majesty is coming?" asked the lively American dowager.  "I've
put on my nooest frock and my best diamonds on purpose, and I shall be mortified to death if
he doesn't see them."

"There!" pouted Ronnie, "I felt certain you'd put them on for me."

"Why no, I should have put on rubies and orange opals for you.  People with our colour of hair
always like barbaric display--"

"They don't," said Ronnie, "they have chaste cold tastes.  You are absolutely mistaken."

"Well, I think I ought to know!" protested the dowager; "I've lived longer in the world than
you have, anyway."

"Yes," said Ronnie with devastating truthfulness, "but my hair has been this colour longer
than yours has."

Peace was restored by the opportune arrival of a middle-aged man of blond North-German type,
with an expression of brutality on his rather stupid face, who sat in the front of the box
for a few minutes on a visit of ceremony to Cicely.  His appearance caused a slight buzz of
recognition among the audience, and if Yeovil had cared to make enquiry of his neighbours he
might have learned that this decorated and obviously important personage was the redoubtable
von Kwarl, artificer and shaper of much of the statecraft for which other men got the public
credit.

The orchestra played a selection from the "Gondola Girl," which was the leading musical-comedy
of the moment.  Most of the audience, those in the more expensive seats at any rate, heard
the same airs two or three times daily, at restaurant lunches, teas, dinners and suppers, and
occasionally in the Park; they were justified therefore in treating the music as a background
to slightly louder conversation than they had hitherto indulged in.  The music came to an end,
episode number two in the evening's entertainment was signalled, the curtain of Alexandrine
blue rolled heavily upward, and a troupe of performing wolves was presented to the public.
Yeovil had encountered wolves in North Africa deserts and in Siberian forest and wold, he had
seen them at twilight stealing like dark shadows across the snow, and heard their long whimpering
howl in the darkness amid the pines; he could well understand how a magic lore had grown up
round them through the ages among the peoples of four continents, how their name had passed
into a hundred strange sayings and inspired a hundred traditions.  And now he saw them ride
round the stage on tricycles, with grotesque ruffles round their necks and clown caps on their
heads, their eyes blinking miserably in the blaze of the footlights.  In response to the applause
of the house a stout, atrociously smiling man in evening dress came forward and bowed; he had
had nothing to do either with the capture or the training of the animals, having bought them
ready for use from a continental emporium where wild beasts were prepared for the music-hall
market, but he continued bowing and smiling till the curtain fell.

Two American musicians with comic tendencies (denoted by the elaborate rags and tatters of
their costumes) succeeded the wolves.  Their musical performance was not without merit, but
their comic "business" seemed to have been invented long ago by some man who had patented a
monopoly of all music-hall humour and forthwith retired from the trade.  Some day, Yeovil reflected,
the rights of the monopoly might expire and new "business" become available for the knockabout
profession.

The audience brightened considerably when item number five of the programme was signalled.
The orchestra struck up a rollicking measure and Tony Luton made his entrance amid a rousing
storm of applause.  He was dressed as an errand-boy of some West End shop, with a livery and
box- tricycle, as spruce and decorative as the most ambitious errand-boy could see himself
in his most ambitious dreams.  His song was a lively and very audacious chronicle of life behind
the scenes of a big retail establishment, and sparkled with allusions which might fitly have
been described as suggestive--at any rate they appeared to suggest meanings to the audience
quite as clearly as Gorla Mustelford's dances were likely to do, even with the aid, in her
case, of long explanations on the programmes.  When the final verse seemed about to reach an
unpardonable climax a stage policeman opportunely appeared and moved the lively songster on
for obstructing the imaginary traffic of an imaginary Bond Street.  The house received the
new number with genial enthusiasm, and mingled its applause with demands for an earlier favourite.
The orchestra struck up the familiar air, and in a few moments the smart errand-boy, transformed
now into a smart jockey, was singing "They quaff the gay bubbly in Eccleston Square" to an
audience that hummed and nodded its unstinted approval.

The next number but one was the Gorla Mustelford debut, and the house settled itself down to
yawn and fidget and chatter for ten or twelve minutes while a troupe of talented Japanese jugglers
performed some artistic and quite uninteresting marvels with fans and butterflies and lacquer
boxes.  The interval of waiting was not destined, however, to be without its interest; in its
way it provided the one really important and dramatic moment of the evening.  One or two uniforms
and evening toilettes had already made their appearance in the Imperial box; now there was
observable in that quarter a slight commotion, an unobtrusive reshuffling and reseating, and
then every eye in the suddenly quiet semi- darkened house focussed itself on one figure.  There
was no public demonstration from the newly-loyal, it had been particularly wished that there
should be none, but a ripple of whisper went through the vast audience from end to end.  Majesty
had arrived.  The Japanese marvel-workers went through their display with even less attention
than before.  Lady Shalem, sitting well in the front of her box, lowered her observant eyes
to her programme and her massive bangles.  The evidence of her triumph did not need staring at.

CHAPTER IX: AN EVENING "TO BE REMEMBERED"

To the uninitiated or unappreciative the dancing of Gorla Mustelford did not seem widely different
from much that had been exhibited aforetime by exponents of the posturing school.  She was
not naturally graceful of movement, she had not undergone years of arduous tutelage, she had
not the instinct for sheer joyous energy of action that is stored in some natures; out of these
unpromising negative qualities she had produced a style of dancing that might best be labelled
a conscientious departure from accepted methods.  The highly imaginative titles that she had
bestowed on her dances, the "Life of a fern," the "Soul-dream of a topaz," and so forth, at
least gave her audience and her critics something to talk about.  In themselves they meant
absolutely nothing, but they induced discussion, and that to Gorla meant a great deal.  It
was a season of dearth and emptiness in the footlights and box-office world, and her performance
received a welcome that would scarcely have befallen it in a more crowded and prosperous day.
Her success, indeed, had been waiting for her, ready-made, as far as the managerial profession
was concerned, and nothing had been left undone in the way of advertisement to secure for it
the appearance, at any rate, of popular favour.  And loud above the interested applause of
those who had personal or business motives for acclaiming a success swelled the exaggerated
enthusiasm of the fairly numerous art-satellites who are unstinted in their praise of anything
that they are certain they cannot understand. Whatever might be the subsequent verdict of the
theatre-filling public the majority of the favoured first-night audience was determined to
set the seal of its approval on the suggestion dances, and a steady roll of applause greeted
the conclusion of each item.  The dancer gravely bowed her thanks; in marked contradistinction
to the gentleman who had "presented" the performing wolves she did not permit herself the luxury
of a smile.

"It teaches us a great deal," said Rhapsodic Pantril vaguely, but impressively, after the Fern
dance had been given and applauded.

"At any rate we know now that a fern takes life very seriously," broke in Joan Mardle, who
had somehow wriggled herself into Cicely's box.

As Yeovil, from the back of his gallery, watched Gorla running and ricochetting about the stage,
looking rather like a wagtail in energetic pursuit of invisible gnats and midges, he wondered
how many of the middle- aged women who were eagerly applauding her would have taken the least
notice of similar gymnastics on the part of their offspring in nursery or garden, beyond perhaps
asking them not to make so much noise.  And a bitterer tinge came to his thoughts as he saw
the bouquets being handed up, thoughts of the brave old dowager down at Torywood, the woman
who had worked and wrought so hard and so unsparingly in her day for the well- being of the
State--the State that had fallen helpless into alien hands before her tired eyes.  Her eldest
son lived invalid-wise in the South of France, her second son lay fathoms deep in the North
Sea, with the hulk of a broken battleship for a burial-vault; and now the grand-daughter was
standing here in the limelight, bowing her thanks for the patronage and favour meted out to
her by this cosmopolitan company, with its lavish sprinkling of the uniforms of an alien army.

Prominent among the flowers at her feet was one large golden-petalled bouquet of gorgeous blooms,
tied with a broad streamer of golden riband, the tribute rendered by Caesar to the things that
were Caesar's.  The new chapter of the fait accompli had been written that night and written
well.  The audience poured slowly out with the triumphant music of Jancovius's Kaiser Wilhelm
march, played by the orchestra as a happy inspiration, pealing in its ears.

"It has been a great evening, a most successful evening," said Lady Shalem to Herr von Kwarl,
whom she was conveying in her electric brougham to Cicely Yeovil's supper party; "an important
evening," she added, choosing her adjectives with deliberation.  "It should give pleasure in
high quarters, should it not?"

And she turned her observant eyes on the impassive face of her companion.

"Gracious lady," he replied with deliberation and meaning, "it has given pleasure.  It is an
evening to be remembered."

The gracious lady suppressed a sigh of satisfaction.  Memory in high places was a thing fruitful
and precious beyond computation.

Cicely's party at the Porphyry Restaurant had grown to imposing dimensions.  Every one whom
she had asked had come, and so had Joan Mardle.  Lady Shalem had suggested several names at
the last moment, and there was quite a strong infusion of the Teutonic military and official
world.  It was just as well, Cicely reflected, that the supper was being given at a restaurant
and not in Berkshire Street.

"Quite like ole times," purred the beaming proprietor in Cicely's ear, as the staircase and
cloak-rooms filled up with a jostling, laughing throng.

The guests settled themselves at four tables, taking their places where chance or fancy led
them, late comers having to fit in wherever they could find room.  A babel of tongues in various
languages reigned round the tables, amid which the rattle of knives and forks and plates and
the popping of corks made a subdued hubbub.  Gorla Mustelford, the motive for all this sound
and movement, this chatter of guests and scurrying of waiters, sat motionless in the fatigued
self-conscious silence of a great artist who has delivered a great message.

"Do sit at Lady Peach's table, like a dear boy," Cicely begged of Tony Luton, who had come
in late; "she and Gerald Drowly have got together, in spite of all my efforts, and they are
both so dull.  Try and liven things up a bit."

A loud barking sound, as of fur-seals calling across Arctic ice, came from another table, where
Mrs. Mentieth-Mendlesohnn (one of the Mendlesohnns of Invergordon, as she was wont to describe
herself) was proclaiming the glories and subtleties of Gorla's achievement.

"It was a revelation," she shouted; "I sat there and saw a whole new scheme of thought unfold
itself before my eyes.  One could not define it, it was thought translated into action--the
best art cannot be defined. One just sat there and knew that one was seeing something one had
never seen before, and yet one felt that one had seen it, in one's brain, all one's life. 
That was what was so wonderful--yes, please," she broke off sharply as a fat quail in aspic
was presented to her by a questioning waiter.

The voice of Mr. Mauleverer Morle came across the table, like another seal barking at a greater
distance.

"Rostand," he observed with studied emphasis, "has been called le Prince de l'adjectif Inopine;
Miss Mustelford deserves to be described as the Queen of Unexpected Movement."

"Oh, I say, do you hear that?" exclaimed Mrs. Mentieth-Mendlesohnn to as wide an audience as
she could achieve; "Rostand has been called--tell them what you said, Mr. Morle," she broke
off, suddenly mistrusting her ability to handle a French sentence at the top of her voice.

Mr. Morle repeated his remark.

"Pass it on to the next table," commanded Mrs. Mentieth-Mendlesohnn. "It's too good to be lost."

At the next table however, a grave impressive voice was dwelling at length on a topic remote
from the event of the evening.  Lady Peach considered that all social gatherings, of whatever
nature, were intended for the recital of minor domestic tragedies.  She lost no time in regaling
the company around her with the detailed history of an interrupted week-end in a Norfolk cottage.

"The most charming and delightful old-world spot that you could imagine, clean and quite comfortable,
just a nice distance from the sea and within an easy walk of the Broads.  The very place for
the children.  We'd brought everything for a four days' stay and meant to have a really delightful
time.  And then on Sunday morning we found that some one had left the springhead, where our
only supply of drinking water came from, uncovered, and a dead bird was floating in it; it
had fallen in somehow and got drowned.  Of course we couldn't use the water that a dead body
had been floating in, and there was no other supply for miles round, so we had to come away
then and there.  Now what do you say to that?"

"'Ah, that a linnet should die in the Spring,'" quoted Tony Luton with intense feeling.

There was an immediate outburst of hilarity where Lady Peach had confidently looked for expressions
of concern and sympathy.

"Isn't Tony just perfectly cute?  Isn't he?" exclaimed a young American woman, with an enthusiasm
to which Lady Peach entirely failed to respond. She had intended following up her story with
the account of another tragedy of a similar nature that had befallen her three years ago in
Argyllshire, and now the opportunity had gone.  She turned morosely to the consolations of
a tongue salad.

At the centre table the excellent von Tolb led a chorus of congratulation and compliment, to
which Gorla listened with an air of polite detachment, much as the Sheikh Ul Islam might receive
the homage of a Wesleyan Conference.  To a close observer it would have seemed probable that
her attitude of fatigued indifference to the flattering remarks that were showered on her had
been as carefully studied and rehearsed as any of her postures on the stage.

"It is something that one will appreciate more and more fully every time one sees it . . .
One cannot see it too often . . . I could have sat and watched it for hours . . . Do you know,
I am just looking forward to to- morrow evening, when I can see it again. . . .  I knew it
was going to be good, but I had no idea--" so chimed the chorus, between mouthfuls of quail
and bites of asparagus.

"Weren't the performing wolves wonderful?" exclaimed Joan in her fresh joyous voice, that rang
round the room like laughter of the woodpecker.

If there is one thing that disturbs the complacency of a great artist of the Halls it is the
consciousness of sharing his or her triumphs with performing birds and animals, but of course
Joan was not to be expected to know that.  She pursued her subject with the assurance of one
who has hit on a particularly acceptable topic.

"It must have taken them years of training and concentration to master those tricycles," she
continued in high-pitched soliloquy.  "The nice thing about them is that they don't realise
a bit how clever and educational they are.  It would be dreadful to have them putting on airs,
wouldn't it?  And yet I suppose the knowledge of being able to jump through a hoop better than
any other wolf would justify a certain amount of 'side.'"

Fortunately at this moment a young Italian journalist at another table rose from his seat and
delivered a two-minute oration in praise of the heroine of the evening.  He spoke in rapid
nervous French, with a North Italian accent, but much of what he said could be understood by
the majority of those present, and the applause was unanimous.  At any rate he had been brief
and it was permissible to suppose that he had been witty.

It was the opening for which Mr. Gerald Drowly had been watching and waiting.  The moment that
the Italian enthusiast had dropped back into his seat amid a rattle of hand-clapping and rapping
of forks and knives on the tables, Drowly sprang to his feet, pushed his chair well away, as
for a long separation, and begged to endorse what had been so very aptly and gracefully, and,
might he add, truly said by the previous speaker. This was only the prelude to the real burden
of his message; with the dexterity that comes of practice he managed, in a couple of hurried
sentences, to divert the course of his remarks to his own personality and career, and to inform
his listeners that he was an actor of some note and experience, and had had the honour of acting
under--and here followed a string of names of eminent actor managers of the day.  He thought
he might be pardoned for mentioning the fact that his performance of "Peterkin" in the "Broken
Nutshell," had won the unstinted approval of the dramatic critics of the Provincial press.
Towards the end of what was a long speech, and which seemed even longer to its hearers, he
reverted to the subject of Gorla's dancing and bestowed on it such laudatory remarks as he
had left over.  Drawing his chair once again into his immediate neighbourhood he sat down,
aglow with the satisfied consciousness of a good work worthily performed.

"I once acted a small part in some theatricals got up for a charity," announced Joan in a ringing,
confidential voice; "the Clapham Courier said that all the minor parts were very creditably
sustained.  Those were its very words.  I felt I must tell you that, and also say how much
I enjoyed Miss Mustelford's dancing."

Tony Luton cheered wildly.

"That's the cleverest speech so far," he proclaimed.  He had been asked to liven things up
at his table and was doing his best to achieve that result, but Mr. Gerald Drowly joined Lady
Peach in the unfavourable opinion she had formed of that irrepressible youth.

Ronnie, on whom Cicely kept a solicitous eye, showed no sign of any intention of falling in
love with Gorla.  He was more profitably engaged in paying court to the Grafin von Tolb, whose
hospitable mansion in Belgrave Square invested her with a special interest in his eyes.  As
a professional Prince Charming he had every inducement to encourage the cult of Fairy Godmother.

"Yes, yes, agreed, I will come and hear you play, that is a promise," said the Grafin, "and
you must come and dine with me one night and play to me afterwards, that is a promise, also,
yes?  That is very nice of you, to come and see a tiresome old woman.  I am passionately fond
of music; if I were honest I would tell you also that I am very fond of good- looking boys,
but this is not the age of honesty, so I must leave you to guess that.  Come on Thursday in
next week, you can?  That is nice.  I have a reigning Prince dining with me that night.  Poor
man, he wants cheering up; the art of being a reigning Prince is not a very pleasing one nowadays.
He has made it a boast all his life that he is Liberal and his subjects Conservative; now that
is all changed--no, not all; he is still Liberal, but his subjects unfortunately are become
Socialists.  You must play your best for him."

"Are there many Socialists over there, in Germany I mean?" asked Ronnie, who was rather out
of his depth where politics were concerned.

"Ueberall," said the Grafin with emphasis; "everywhere, I don't know what it comes from; better
education and worse digestions I suppose.  I am sure digestion has a good deal to do with it.
In my husband's family for example, his generation had excellent digestions, and there wasn't
a case of Socialism or suicide among them; the younger generation have no digestions worth
speaking of, and there have been two suicides and three Socialists within the last six years.
And now I must really be going.  I am not a Berliner and late hours don't suit my way of life."

Ronnie bent low over the Grafin's hand and kissed it, partly because she was the kind of woman
who naturally invoked such homage, but chiefly because he knew that the gesture showed off
his smooth burnished head to advantage.

The observant eyes of Lady Shalem had noted the animated conversation between the Grafin and
Ronnie, and she had overheard fragments of the invitation that had been accorded to the latter.

"Take us the little foxes, the little foxes that spoil the vines," she quoted to herself; "not
that that music-boy would do much in the destructive line, but the principle is good."

CHAPTER X: SOME REFLECTIONS AND A "TE DEUM"

Cicely awoke, on the morning after the "memorable evening," with the satisfactory feeling of
victory achieved, tempered by a troubled sense of having achieved it in the face of a reasonably
grounded opposition.  She had burned her boats, and was glad of it, but the reek of their burning
drifted rather unpleasantly across the jubilant incense-swinging of her Te Deum service.

Last night had marked an immense step forward in her social career; without running after the
patronage of influential personages she had seen it quietly and tactfully put at her service.
People such as the Grafin von Tolb were going to be a power in the London world for a very
long time to come.  Herr von Kwarl, with all his useful qualities of brain and temperament,
might conceivably fall out of favour in some unexpected turn of the political wheel, and the
Shalems would probably have their little day and then a long afternoon of diminishing social
importance; the placid dormouse-like Grafin would outlast them all.  She had the qualities
which make either for contented mediocrity or else for very durable success, according as circumstances
may dictate.  She was one of those characters that can neither thrust themselves to the front,
nor have any wish to do so, but being there, no ordinary power can thrust them away.

With the Grafin as her friend Cicely found herself in altogether a different position from
that involved by the mere interested patronage of Lady Shalem.  A vista of social success was
opened up to her, and she did not mean it to be just the ordinary success of a popular and
influential hostess moving in an important circle.  That people with naturally bad manners
should have to be polite and considerate in their dealings with her, that people who usually
held themselves aloof should have to be gracious and amiable, that the self-assured should
have to be just a little humble and anxious where she was concerned, these things of course
she intended to happen; she was a woman.  But, she told herself, she intended a great deal
more than that when she traced the pattern for her scheme of social influence.  In her heart
she detested the German occupation as a hateful necessity, but while her heart registered the
hatefulness the brain recognised the necessity.  The great fighting-machines that the Germans
had built up and maintained, on land, on sea, and in air, were three solid crushing facts that
demonstrated the hopelessness of any immediate thought of revolt.  Twenty years hence, when
the present generation was older and greyer, the chances of armed revolt would probably be
equally hopeless, equally remote-seeming.  But in the meantime something could have been effected
in another way.  The conquerors might partially Germanise London, but, on the other hand, if
the thing were skilfully managed, the British element within the Empire might impress the mark
of its influence on everything German.  The fighting men might remain Prussian or Bavarian,
but the thinking men, and eventually the ruling men, could gradually come under British influence,
or even be of British blood.  An English Liberal-Conservative "Centre" might stand as a bulwark
against the Junkerdom and Socialism of Continental Germany.  So Cicely reasoned with herself,
in a fashion induced perhaps by an earlier apprenticeship to the reading of Nineteenth Century
articles, in which the possible political and racial developments of various countries were
examined and discussed and put away in the pigeon-holes of probable happenings.  She had sufficient
knowledge of political history to know that such a development might possibly come to pass,
she had not sufficient insight into actual conditions to know that the possibility was as remote
as that of armed resistance.  And the role which she saw herself playing was that of a deft
and courtly political intriguer, rallying the British element and making herself agreeable
to the German element, a political inspiration to the one and a social distraction to the other.
At the back of her mind there lurked an honest confession that she was probably over-rating
her powers of statecraft and personality, that she was more likely to be carried along by the
current of events than to control or divert its direction; the political day-dream remained,
however, as day-dreams will, in spite of the clear light of probability shining through them.
At any rate she knew, as usual, what she wanted to do, and as usual she had taken steps to
carry out her intentions.  Last night remained in her mind a night of important victory.  There
also remained the anxious proceeding of finding out if the victory had entailed any serious losses.

Cicely was not one of those ill-regulated people who treat the first meal of the day as a convenient
occasion for serving up any differences or contentions that have been left over from the day
before or overlooked in the press of other matters.  She enjoyed her breakfast and gave Yeovil
unhindered opportunity for enjoying his; a discussion as to the right cooking of a dish that
he had first tasted among the Orenburg Tartars was the prevailing topic on this particular
morning, and blended well with trout and toast and coffee.  In a cosy nook of the smoking-room,
in participation of the after-breakfast cigarettes, Cicely made her dash into debatable ground.

"You haven't asked me how my supper-party went off," she said.

"There is a notice of it in two of the morning papers, with a list of those present," said
Yeovil; "the conquering race seems to have been very well represented."

"Several races were represented," said Cicely; "a function of that sort, celebrating a dramatic
first-night, was bound to be cosmopolitan.  In fact, blending of races and nationalities is
the tendency of the age we live in."

"The blending of races seems to have been consummated already in one of the individuals at
your party," said Yeovil drily; "the name Mentieth- Mendlesohnn struck me as a particularly
happy obliteration of racial landmarks."

Cicely laughed.

"A noisy and very wearisome sort of woman," she commented; "she reminds one of garlic that's
been planted by mistake in a conservatory.  Still, she's useful as an advertising agent to
any one who rubs her the right way.  She'll be invaluable in proclaiming the merits of Gorla's
performance to all and sundry; that's why I invited her.  She'll probably lunch to-day at the
Hotel Cecil, and every one sitting within a hundred yards of her table will hear what an emotional
education they can get by going to see Gorla dance at the Caravansery."

"She seems to be like the Salvation Army," said Yeovil; "her noise reaches a class of people
who wouldn't trouble to read press notices."

"Exactly," said Cicely.  "Gorla gets quite good notices on the whole, doesn't she?"

"The one that took my fancy most was the one in the Standard," said Yeovil, picking up that
paper from a table by his side and searching its columns for the notice in question.  "'The
wolves which appeared earlier in the evening's entertainment are, the programme assures us,
trained entirely by kindness.  It would have been a further kindness, at any rate to the audience,
if some of the training, which the wolves doubtless do not appreciate at its proper value,
had been expended on Miss Mustelford's efforts at stage dancing.  We are assured, again on
the authority of the programme, that the much-talked-of Suggestion Dances are the last word
in Posture dancing.  The last word belongs by immemorial right to the sex which Miss Mustelford
adorns, and it would be ungallant to seek to deprive her of her privilege.  As far as the educational
aspect of her performance is concerned we must admit that the life of the fern remains to us
a private life still.  Miss Mustelford has abandoned her own private life in an unavailing
attempt to draw the fern into the gaze of publicity.  And so it was with her other suggestions.
They suggested many things, but nothing that was announced on the programme. Chiefly they suggested
one outstanding reflection, that stage-dancing is not like those advertised breakfast foods
that can be served up after three minutes' preparation.  Half a life-time, or rather half a
youth- time is a much more satisfactory allowance.'"

"The Standard is prejudiced," said Cicely; "some of the other papers are quite enthusiastic.
The Dawn gives her a column and a quarter of notice, nearly all of it complimentary.  It says
the report of her fame as a dancer went before her, but that her performance last night caught
it up and outstripped it."

"I should not like to suggest that the Dawn is prejudiced," said Yeovil, "but Shalem is a managing
director on it, and one of its biggest shareholders.  Gorla's dancing is an event of the social
season, and Shalem is one of those most interested in keeping up the appearance, at any rate,
of a London social season.  Besides, her debut gave the opportunity for an Imperial visit to
the theatre--the first appearance at a festive public function of the Conqueror among the conquered.
Apparently the experiment passed off well; Shalem has every reason to feel pleased with himself
and well-disposed towards Gorla.  By the way," added Yeovil, "talking of Gorla, I'm going down
to Torywood one day next week."

"To Torywood?" exclaimed Cicely.  The tone of her exclamation gave the impression that the
announcement was not very acceptable to her.

"I promised the old lady that I would go and have a talk with her when I came back from my
Siberian trip; she travelled in eastern Russia, you know, long before the Trans-Siberian railway
was built, and she's enormously interested in those parts.  In any case I should like to see
her again."

"She does not see many people nowadays," said Cicely; "I fancy she is breaking up rather. 
She was very fond of the son who went down, you know."

"She has seen a great many of the things she cared for go down," said Yeovil; "it is a sad
old life that is left to her, when one thinks of all that the past has been to her, of the
part she used to play in the world, the work she used to get through.  It used to seem as though
she could never grow old, as if she would die standing up, with some unfinished command on
her lips.  And now I suppose her tragedy is that she has grown old, bitterly old, and cannot die."

Cicely was silent for a moment, and seemed about to leave the room.  Then she turned back and said:

"I don't think I would say anything about Gorla to her if I were you."

"It would not have occurred to me to drag her name into our conversation," said Yeovil coldly,
"but in any case the accounts of her dancing performance will have reached Torywood through
the newspapers--also the record of your racially-blended supper-party."

Cicely said nothing.  She knew that by last night's affair she had definitely identified herself
in public opinion with the Shalem clique, and that many of her old friends would look on her
with distrust and suspicion on that account.  It was unfortunate, but she reckoned it a lesser
evil than tearing herself away from her London life, its successes and pleasures and possibilities.
These social dislocations and severing of friendships were to be looked for after any great
and violent change in State affairs.  It was Yeovil's attitude that really troubled her; she
would not give way to his prejudices and accept his point of view, but she knew that a victory
that involved estrangement from him would only bring a mockery of happiness.  She still hoped
that he would come round to an acceptance of established facts and deaden his political malaise
in the absorbing distraction of field sports.  The visit to Torywood was a misfortune; it might
just turn the balance in the undesired direction. Only a few weeks of late summer and early
autumn remained before the hunting season, and its preparations would be at hand, and Yeovil
might be caught in the meshes of an old enthusiasm; in those few weeks, however, he might be
fired by another sort of enthusiasm, an enthusiasm which would sooner or later mean voluntary
or enforced exile for his part, and the probable breaking up of her own social plans and ambitions.

But Cicely knew something of the futility of improvising objections where no real obstacle
exists.  The visit to Torywood was a graceful attention on Yeovil's part to an old friend;
there was no decent ground on which it could be opposed.  If the influence of that visit came
athwart Yeovil's life and hers with disastrous effect, that was "Kismet."

And once again the reek from her burned and smouldering boats mingled threateningly with the
incense fumes of her Te Deum for victory.  She left the room, and Yeovil turned once more to
an item of news in the morning's papers that had already arrested his attention.  The Imperial
Aufklarung on the subject of military service was to be made public in the course of the day.

CHAPTER XI: THE TEA SHOP

Yeovil wandered down Piccadilly that afternoon in a spirit of restlessness and expectancy.
The long-awaited Aufklarung dealing with the new law of military service had not yet appeared;
at any moment he might meet the hoarse-throated newsboys running along with their papers, announcing
the special edition which would give the terms of the edict to the public.  Every sound or
movement that detached itself with isolated significance from the general whirr and scurry
of the streets seemed to Yeovil to herald the oncoming clamour and rush that he was looking
for. But the long endless succession of motors and 'buses and vans went by, hooting and grunting,
and such newsboys as were to be seen hung about listlessly, bearing no more attractive bait
on their posters than the announcement of an "earthquake shock in Hungary: feared loss of life."

The Green Park end of Piccadilly was a changed, and in some respects a livelier thoroughfare
to that which Yeovil remembered with affectionate regret.  A great political club had migrated
from its palatial home to a shrunken habitation in a less prosperous quarter; its place was
filled by the flamboyant frontage of the Hotel Konstantinopel.  Gorgeous Turkey carpets were
spread over the wide entrance steps, and boys in Circassian and Anatolian costumes hung around
the doors, or dashed forth in un-Oriental haste to carry such messages as the telephone was
unable to transmit.  Picturesque sellers of Turkish delight, attar-of-roses, and brass-work
coffee services, squatted under the portico, on terms of obvious good understanding with the
hotel management.  A few doors further down a service club that had long been a Piccadilly
landmark was a landmark still, as the home of the Army Aeronaut Club, and there was a constant
coming and going of gay-hued uniforms, Saxon, Prussian, Bavarian, Hessian, and so forth, through
its portals.  The mastering of the air and the creation of a scientific aerial war fleet, second
to none in the world, was an achievement of which the conquering race was pardonably proud,
and for which it had good reason to be duly thankful. Over the gateways was blazoned the badge
of the club, an elephant, whale, and eagle, typifying the three armed forces of the State,
by land and sea and air; the eagle bore in its beak a scroll with the proud legend: "The last
am I, but not the least."

To the eastward of this gaily-humming hive the long shuttered front of a deserted ducal mansion
struck a note of protest and mourning amid the noise and whirl and colour of a seemingly uncaring
city.  On the other side of the roadway, on the gravelled paths of the Green Park, small ragged
children from the back streets of Westminster looked wistfully at the smooth trim stretches
of grass on which it was now forbidden, in two languages, to set foot.  Only the pigeons, disregarding
the changes of political geography, walked about as usual, wondering perhaps, if they ever
wondered at anything, at the sudden change in the distribution of park humans.

Yeovil turned his steps out of the hot sunlight into the shade of the Burlington Arcade, familiarly
known to many of its newer frequenters as the Passage.  Here the change that new conditions
and requirements had wrought was more immediately noticeable than anywhere else in the West
End.  Most of the shops on the western side had been cleared away, and in their place had been
installed an "open-air" cafe, converting the long alley into a sort of promenade tea-garden,
flanked on one side by a line of haberdashers', perfumers', and jewellers' show windows.  The
patrons of the cafe could sit at the little round tables, drinking their coffee and syrups
and aperitifs, and gazing, if they were so minded, at the pyjamas and cravats and Brazilian
diamonds spread out for inspection before them.  A string orchestra, hidden away somewhere
in a gallery, was alternating grand opera with the Gondola Girl and the latest gems of Transatlantic
melody.  From around the tightly-packed tables arose a babble of tongues, made up chiefly of
German, a South American rendering of Spanish, and a North American rendering of English, with
here and there the sharp shaken-out staccato of Japanese.  A sleepy-looking boy, in a nondescript
uniform, was wandering to and fro among the customers, offering for sale the Matin, New York
Herald, Berliner Tageblatt, and a host of crudely coloured illustrated papers, embodying the
hard-worked wit of a world-legion of comic artists.  Yeovil hurried through the Arcade; it
was not here, in this atmosphere of staring alien eyes and jangling tongues, that he wanted
to read the news of the Imperial Aufklarung.

By a succession of by-ways he reached Hanover Square, and thence made his way into Oxford Street.
There was no commotion of activity to be noticed yet among the newsboys; the posters still
concerned themselves with the earthquake in Hungary, varied with references to the health of
the King of Roumania, and a motor accident in South London.  Yeovil wandered aimlessly along
the street for a few dozen yards, and then turned down into the smoking-room of a cheap tea-shop,
where he judged that the flourishing foreign element would be less conspicuously represented.
Quiet-voiced, smooth-headed youths, from neighbouring shops and wholesale houses, sat drinking
tea and munching pastry, some of them reading, others making a fitful rattle with dominoes
on the marble-topped tables. A clean, wholesome smell of tea and coffee made itself felt through
the clouds of cigarette smoke; cleanliness and listlessness seemed to be the dominant notes
of the place, a cleanliness that was commendable, and a listlessness that seemed unnatural
and undesirable where so much youth was gathered together for refreshment and recreation. 
Yeovil seated himself at a table already occupied by a young clergyman who was smoking a cigarette
over the remains of a plateful of buttered toast.  He had a keen, clever, hard-lined face,
the face of a man who, in an earlier stage of European history, might have been a warlike prior,
awkward to tackle at the council-board, greatly to be avoided where blows were being exchanged.
A pale, silent damsel drifted up to Yeovil and took his order with an air of being mentally
some hundreds of miles away, and utterly indifferent to the requirements of those whom she
served; if she had brought calf's-foot jelly instead of the pot of China tea he had asked for,
Yeovil would hardly have been surprised.  However, the tea duly arrived on the table, and the
pale damsel scribbled a figure on a slip of paper, put it silently by the side of the teapot,
and drifted silently away.  Yeovil had seen the same sort of thing done on the musical-comedy
stage, and done rather differently.

"Can you tell me, sir, is the Imperial announcement out yet?" asked the young clergyman, after
a brief scrutiny of his neighbour.

"No, I have been waiting about for the last half-hour on the look-out for it," said Yeovil;
"the special editions ought to be out by now."  Then he added: "I have only just lately come
from abroad.  I know scarcely anything of London as it is now.  You may imagine that a good
deal of it is very strange to me.  Your profession must take you a good deal among all classes
of people.  I have seen something of what one may call the upper, or, at any rate, the richer
classes, since I came back; do tell me something about the poorer classes of the community.
How do they take the new order of things?"

"Badly," said the young cleric, "badly, in more senses than one.  They are helpless and they
are bitter--bitter in the useless kind of way that produces no great resolutions.  They look
round for some one to blame for what has happened; they blame the politicians, they blame the
leisured classes; in an indirect way I believe they blame the Church.  Certainly, the national
disaster has not drawn them towards religion in any form. One thing you may be sure of, they
do not blame themselves.  No true Londoner ever admits that fault lies at his door.  'No, I
never!' is an exclamation that is on his lips from earliest childhood, whenever he is charged
with anything blameworthy or punishable.  That is why school discipline was ever a thing repugnant
to the schoolboard child and its parents; no schoolboard scholar ever deserved punishment.
However obvious the fault might seem to a disciplinarian, 'No, I never' exonerated it as something
that had not happened.  Public schoolboys and private schoolboys of the upper and middle class
had their fling and took their thrashings, when they were found out, as a piece of bad luck,
but 'our Bert' and 'our Sid' were of those for whom there is no condemnation; if they were
punished it was for faults that 'no, they never' committed. Naturally the grown-up generation
of Berts and Sids, the voters and householders, do not realise, still less admit, that it was
they who called the tune to which the politicians danced.  They had to choose between the vote-mongers
and the so-called 'scare-mongers,' and their verdict was for the vote-mongers all the time.
And now they are bitter; they are being punished, and punishment is not a thing that they have
been schooled to bear.  The taxes that are falling on them are a grievous source of discontent,
and the military service that will be imposed on them, for the first time in their lives, will
be another.  There is a more lovable side to their character under misfortune, though," added
the young clergyman.  "Deep down in their hearts there was a very real affection for the old
dynasty.  Future historians will perhaps be able to explain how and why the Royal Family of
Great Britain captured the imaginations of its subjects in so genuine and lasting a fashion.
Among the poorest and the most matter-of-fact, for whom the name of no public man, politician
or philanthropist, stands out with any especial significance, the old Queen, and the dead King,
the dethroned monarch and the young prince live in a sort of domestic Pantheon, a recollection
that is a proud and wistful personal possession when so little remains to be proud of or to
possess.  There is no favour that I am so often asked for among my poorer parishioners as the
gift of the picture of this or that member of the old dynasty.  'I have got all of them, only
except Princess Mary,' an old woman said to me last week, and she nearly cried with pleasure
when I brought her an old Bystander portrait that filled the gap in her collection.  And on
Queen Alexandra's day they bring out and wear the faded wild-rose favours that they bought
with their pennies in days gone by."

"The tragedy of the enactment that is about to enforce military service on these people is
that it comes when they've no longer a country to fight for," said Yeovil.

The young clergyman gave an exclamation of bitter impatience.

"That is the cruel mockery of the whole thing.  Every now and then in the course of my work
I have come across lads who were really drifting to the bad through the good qualities in them.
A clean combative strain in their blood, and a natural turn for adventure, made the ordinary
anaemic routine of shop or warehouse or factory almost unbearable for them.  What splendid
little soldiers they would have made, and how grandly the discipline of a military training
would have steadied them in after-life when steadiness was wanted.  The only adventure that
their surroundings offered them has been the adventure of practising mildly criminal misdeeds
without getting landed in reformatories and prisons; those of them that have not been successful
in keeping clear of detection are walking round and round prison yards, experiencing the operation
of a discipline that breaks and does not build.  They were merry-hearted boys once, with nothing
of the criminal or ne'er-do-weel in their natures, and now--have you ever seen a prison yard,
with that walk round and round and round between grey walls under a blue sky?"

Yeovil nodded.

"It's good enough for criminals and imbeciles," said the parson, "but think of it for those
boys, who might have been marching along to the tap of the drum, with a laugh on their lips
instead of Hell in their hearts. I have had Hell in my heart sometimes, when I have come in
touch with cases like those.  I suppose you are thinking that I am a strange sort of parson."

"I was just defining you in my mind," said Yeovil, "as a man of God, with an infinite tenderness
for little devils."

The clergyman flushed.

"Rather a fine epitaph to have on one's tombstone," he said, "especially if the tombstone were
in some crowded city graveyard.  I suppose I am a man of God, but I don't think I could be
called a man of peace."

Looking at the strong young face, with its suggestion of a fighting prior of bygone days more
marked than ever, Yeovil mentally agreed that he could not.

"I have learned one thing in life," continued the young man, "and that is that peace is not
for this world.  Peace is what God gives us when He takes us into His rest.  Beat your sword
into a ploughshare if you like, but beat your enemy into smithereens first."

A long-drawn cry, repeated again and again, detached itself from the throb and hoot and whir
of the street traffic.

"Speshul!  Military service, spesh-ul!"

The young clergyman sprang from his seat and went up the staircase in a succession of bounds,
causing the domino players and novelette readers to look up for a moment in mild astonishment.
In a few seconds he was back again, with a copy of an afternoon paper.  The Imperial Rescript
was set forth in heavy type, in parallel columns of English and German.  As the young man read
a deep burning flush spread over his face, then ebbed away into a chalky whiteness.  He read
the announcement to the end, then handed the paper to Yeovil, and left without a word.

Beneath the courtly politeness and benignant phraseology of the document ran a trenchant searing
irony.  The British born subjects of the Germanic Crown, inhabiting the islands of Great Britain
and Ireland, had habituated themselves as a people to the disuse of arms, and resolutely excluded
military service and national training from their political system and daily life.  Their judgment
that they were unsuited as a race to bear arms and conform to military discipline was not to
be set aside. Their new Overlord did not propose to do violence to their feelings and customs
by requiring from them the personal military sacrifices and services which were rendered by
his subjects German-born.  The British subjects of the Crown were to remain a people consecrated
to peaceful pursuits, to commerce and trade and husbandry.  The defence of their coasts and
shipping and the maintenance of order and general safety would be guaranteed by a garrison
of German troops, with the co-operation of the Imperial war fleet.  German-born subjects residing
temporarily or permanently in the British Isles would come under the same laws respecting compulsory
military service as their fellow-subjects of German blood in the other parts of the Empire,
and special enactments would be drawn up to ensure that their interests did not suffer from
a periodical withdrawal on training or other military calls.  Necessarily a heavily differentiated
scale of war taxation would fall on British taxpayers, to provide for the upkeep of the garrison
and to equalise the services and sacrifices rendered by the two branches of his Majesty's subjects.
As military service was not henceforth open to any subject of British birth no further necessity
for any training or exercise of a military nature existed, therefore all rifle clubs, drill
associations, cadet corps and similar bodies were henceforth declared to be illegal.  No weapons
other than guns for specified sporting purposes, duly declared and registered and open to inspection
when required, could be owned, purchased, or carried.  The science of arms was to be eliminated
altogether from the life of a people who had shown such marked repugnance to its study and
practice.

The cold irony of the measure struck home with the greater force because its nature was so
utterly unexpected.  Public anticipation had guessed at various forms of military service,
aggressively irksome or tactfully lightened as the case might be, in any event certain to be
bitterly unpopular, and now there had come this contemptuous boon, which had removed, at one
stroke, the bogey of compulsory military service from the troubled imaginings of the British
people, and fastened on them the cruel distinction of being in actual fact what an enemy had
called them in splenetic scorn long years ago--a nation of shopkeepers.  Aye, something even
below that level, a race of shopkeepers who were no longer a nation.

Yeovil crumpled the paper in his hand and went out into the sunlit street.  A sudden roll of
drums and crash of brass music filled the air. A company of Bavarian infantry went by, in all
the pomp and circumstance of martial array and the joyous swing of rapid rhythmic movement.
The street echoed and throbbed in the Englishman's ears with the exultant pulse of youth and
mastery set to loud Pagan music.  A group of lads from the tea-shop clustered on the pavement
and watched the troops go by, staring at a phase of life in which they had no share.  The martial
trappings, the swaggering joy of life, the comradeship of camp and barracks, the hard discipline
of drill yard and fatigue duty, the long sentry watches, the trench digging, forced marches,
wounds, cold, hunger, makeshift hospitals, and the blood-wet laurels--these were not for them.
Such things they might only guess at, or see on a cinema film, darkly; they belonged to the
civilian nation.

The function of afternoon tea was still being languidly observed in the big drawing-room when
Yeovil returned to Berkshire Street.  Cicely was playing the part of hostess to a man of perhaps
forty-one years of age, who looked slightly older from his palpable attempts to look very much
younger.  Percival Plarsey was a plump, pale-faced, short-legged individual, with puffy cheeks,
over-prominent nose, and thin colourless hair.  His mother, with nothing more than maternal
prejudice to excuse her, had discovered some twenty odd years ago that he was a well-favoured
young man, and had easily imbued her son with the same opinion.  The slipping away of years
and the natural transition of the unathletic boy into the podgy unhealthy-looking man did little
to weaken the tradition; Plarsey had never been able to relinquish the idea that a youthful
charm and comeliness still centred in his person, and laboured daily at his toilet with the
devotion that a hopelessly lost cause is so often able to inspire.  He babbled incessantly
about himself and the accessory futilities of his life in short, neat, complacent sentences,
and in a voice that Ronald Storre said reminded one of a fat bishop blessing a butter-making
competition.  While he babbled he kept his eyes fastened on his listeners to observe the impression
which his important little announcements and pronouncements were making.  On the present occasion
he was pattering forth a detailed description of the upholstery and fittings of his new music-room.

"All the hangings, violette de Parme, all the furniture, rosewood.  The only ornament in the
room is a replica of the Mozart statue in Vienna. Nothing but Mozart is to be played in the
room.  Absolutely, nothing but Mozart."

"You will get rather tired of that, won't you?" said Cicely, feeling that she was expected
to comment on this tremendous announcement.

"One gets tired of everything," said Plarsey, with a fat little sigh of resignation. "I can't
tell you how tired I am of Rubenstein, and one day I suppose I shall be tired of Mozart, and
violette de Parme and rosewood. I never thought it possible that I could ever tire of jonquils,
and now I simply won't have one in the house.  Oh, the scene the other day because some one
brought some jonquils into the house!  I'm afraid I was dreadfully rude, but I really couldn't
help it."

He could talk like this through a long summer day or a long winter evening.

Yeovil belonged to a race forbidden to bear arms.  At the moment he would gladly have contented
himself with the weapons with which nature had endowed him, if he might have kicked and pommelled
the abhorrent specimen of male humanity whom he saw before him.

Instead he broke into the conversation with an inspired flash of malicious untruthfulness.

"It is wonderful," he observed carelessly, "how popular that Viennese statue of Mozart has
become.  A friend who inspects County Council Art Schools tells me you find a copy of it in
every class-room you go into."

It was a poor substitute for physical violence, but it was all that civilisation allowed him
in the way of relieving his feelings; it had, moreover, the effect of making Plarsey profoundly
miserable.

CHAPTER XII: THE TRAVELLING COMPANIONS

The train bearing Yeovil on his visit to Torywood slid and rattled westward through the hazy
dreamland of an English summer landscape.  Seen from the train windows the stark bare ugliness
of the metalled line was forgotten, and the eye rested only on the green solitude that unfolded
itself as the miles went slipping by.  Tall grasses and meadow-weeds stood in deep shocks,
field after field, between the leafy boundaries of hedge or coppice, thrusting themselves higher
and higher till they touched the low sweeping branches of the trees that here and there overshadowed
them.  Broad streams, bordered with a heavy fringe of reed and sedge, went winding away into
a green distance where woodland and meadowland seemed indefinitely prolonged; narrow streamlets,
lost to view in the growth that they fostered, disclosed their presence merely by the water-weed
that showed in a riband of rank verdure threading the mellower green of the fields.  On the
stream banks moorhens walked with jerky confident steps, in the easy boldness of those who
had a couple of other elements at their disposal in an emergency; more timorous partridges
raced away from the apparition of the train, looking all leg and neck, like little forest elves
fleeing from human encounter.  And in the distance, over the tree line, a heron or two flapped
with slow measured wing-beats and an air of being bent on an immeasurably longer journey than
the train that hurtled so frantically along the rails.  Now and then the meadowland changed
itself suddenly into orchard, with close-growing trees already showing the measure of their
coming harvest, and then strawyard and farm buildings would slide into view; heavy dairy cattle,
roan and skewbald and dappled, stood near the gates, drowsily resentful of insect stings, and
bunched-up companies of ducks halted in seeming irresolution between the charms of the horse-pond
and the alluring neighbourhood of the farm kitchen.  Away by the banks of some rushing mill-stream,
in a setting of copse and cornfield, a village might be guessed at, just a hint of red roof,
grey wreathed chimney and old church tower as seen from the windows of the passing train, and
over it all brooded a happy, settled calm, like the dreaming murmur of a trout-stream and the
far-away cawing of rooks.

It was a land where it seemed as if it must be always summer and generally afternoon, a land
where bees hummed among the wild thyme and in the flower beds of cottage gardens, where the
harvest-mice rustled amid the corn and nettles, and the mill-race flowed cool and silent through
water-weeds and dark tunnelled sluices, and made soft droning music with the wooden mill-wheel.
And the music carried with it the wording of old undying rhymes, and sang of the jolly, uncaring,
uncared-for miller, of the farmer who went riding upon his grey mare, of the mouse who lived
beneath the merry mill-pin, of the sweet music on yonder green hill and the dancers all in
yellow--the songs and fancies of a lingering olden time, when men took life as children take
a long summer day, and went to bed at last with a simple trust in something they could not
have explained.

Yeovil watched the passing landscape with the intent hungry eyes of a man who revisits a scene
that holds high place in his affections.  His imagination raced even quicker than the train,
following winding roads and twisting valleys into unseen distances, picturing farms and hamlets,
hills and hollows, clattering inn yards and sleepy woodlands.

"A beautiful country," said his only fellow-traveller, who was also gazing at the fleeting
landscape; "surely a country worth fighting for."

He spoke in fairly correct English, but he was unmistakably a foreigner; one could have allotted
him with some certainty to the Eastern half of Europe.

"A beautiful country, as you say," replied Yeovil; then he added the question, "Are you German?"

"No, Hungarian," said the other; "and you, you are English?" he asked.

"I have been much in England, but I am from Russia," said Yeovil, purposely misleading his
companion on the subject of his nationality in order to induce him to talk with greater freedom
on a delicate topic. While living among foreigners in a foreign land he had shrunk from hearing
his country's disaster discussed, or even alluded to; now he was anxious to learn what unprejudiced
foreigners thought of the catastrophe and the causes which had led up to it.

"It is a strange spectacle, a wonder, is it not so?" resumed the other, "a great nation such
as this was, one of the greatest nations in modern times, or of any time, carrying its flag
and its language into all parts of the world, and now, after one short campaign, it is--"

And he shrugged his shoulders many times and made clucking noises at the roof of his voice,
like a hen calling to a brood of roving chickens.

"They grew soft," he resumed; "great world-commerce brings great luxury, and luxury brings
softness.  They had everything to warn them, things happening in their own time and before
their eyes, and they would not be warned.  They had seen, in one generation, the rise of the
military and naval power of the Japanese, a brown-skinned race living in some island rice fields
in a tropical sea, a people one thought of in connection with paper fans and flowers and pretty
tea-gardens, who suddenly marched and sailed into the world's gaze as a Great Power; they had
seen, too, the rise of the Bulgars, a poor herd of zaptieh-ridden peasants, with a few students
scattered in exile in Bukarest and Odessa, who shot up in one generation to be an armed and
aggressive nation with history in its hands.  The English saw these things happening around
them, and with a war-cloud growing blacker and bigger and always more threatening on their
own threshold they sat down to grow soft and peaceful.  They grew soft and accommodating in
all things in religion--"

"In religion?" said Yeovil.

"In religion, yes," said his companion emphatically; "they had come to look on the Christ as
a sort of amiable elder Brother, whose letters from abroad were worth reading.  Then, when
they had emptied all the divine mystery and wonder out of their faith naturally they grew tired
of it, oh, but dreadfully tired of it.  I know many English of the country parts, and always
they tell me they go to church once in each week to set the good example to the servants. 
They were tired of their faith, but they were not virile enough to become real Pagans; their
dancing fauns were good young men who tripped Morris dances and ate health foods and believed
in a sort of Socialism which made for the greatest dulness of the greatest number.  You will
find plenty of them still if you go into what remains of social London."

Yeovil gave a grunt of acquiescence.

"They grew soft in their political ideas," continued the unsparing critic; "for the old insular
belief that all foreigners were devils and rogues they substituted another belief, equally
grounded on insular lack of knowledge, that most foreigners were amiable, good fellows, who
only needed to be talked to and patted on the back to become your friends and benefactors.
They began to believe that a foreign Minister would relinquish long-cherished schemes of national
policy and hostile expansion if he came over on a holiday and was asked down to country houses
and shown the tennis court and the rock-garden and the younger children.  Listen.  I once heard
it solemnly stated at an after-dinner debate in some literary club that a certain very prominent
German statesman had a daughter at school in England, and that future friendly relations between
the two countries were improved in prospect, if not assured, by that circumstance.  You think
I am laughing; I am recording a fact, and the men present were politicians and statesmen as
well as literary dilettanti.  It was an insular lack of insight that worked the mischief, or
some of the mischief.  We, in Hungary, we live too much cheek by jowl with our racial neighbours
to have many illusions about them.  Austrians, Roumanians, Serbs, Italians, Czechs, we know
what they think of us, and we know what to think of them, we know what we want in the world,
and we know what they want; that knowledge does not send us flying at each other's throats,
but it does keep us from growing soft. Ah, the British lion was in a hurry to inaugurate the
Millennium and to lie down gracefully with the lamb.  He made two mistakes, only two, but they
were very bad ones; the Millennium hadn't arrived, and it was not a lamb that he was lying
down with."

"You do not like the English, I gather," said Yeovil, as the Hungarian went off into a short
burst of satirical laughter.

"I have always liked them," he answered, "but now I am angry with them for being soft.  Here
is my station," he added, as the train slowed down, and he commenced to gather his belongings
together.  "I am angry with them," he continued, as a final word on the subject, "because I
hate the Germans."

He raised his hat punctiliously in a parting salute and stepped out on to the platform.  His
place was taken by a large, loose-limbed man, with florid face and big staring eyes, and an
immense array of fishing-basket, rod, fly-cases, and so forth.  He was of the type that one
could instinctively locate as a loud-voiced, self-constituted authority on whatever topic might
happen to be discussed in the bars of small hotels.

"Are you English?" he asked, after a preliminary stare at Yeovil.

This time Yeovil did not trouble to disguise his nationality; he nodded curtly to his questioner.

"Glad of that," said the fisherman; "I don't like travelling with Germans."

"Unfortunately," said Yeovil, "we have to travel with them, as partners in the same State concern,
and not by any means the predominant partner either."

"Oh, that will soon right itself," said the other with loud assertiveness, "that will right
itself damn soon."

"Nothing in politics rights itself," said Yeovil; "things have to be righted, which is a different
matter."

"What d'y'mean?" said the fisherman, who did not like to have his assertions taken up and shaken
into shape.

"We have given a clever and domineering people a chance to plant themselves down as masters
in our land; I don't imagine that they are going to give us an easy chance to push them out.
To do that we shall have to be a little cleverer than they are, a little harder, a little fiercer,
and a good deal more self-sacrificing than we have been in my lifetime or in yours."

"We'll be that, right enough," said the fisherman; "we mean business this time.  The last war
wasn't a war, it was a snap.  We weren't prepared and they were.  That won't happen again,
bless you.  I know what I'm talking about.  I go up and down the country, and I hear what people
are saying."

Yeovil privately doubted if he ever heard anything but his own opinions.

"It stands to reason," continued the fisherman, "that a highly civilised race like ours, with
the record that we've had for leading the whole world, is not going to be held under for long
by a lot of damned sausage- eating Germans.  Don't you believe it!  I know what I'm talking
about. I've travelled about the world a bit."

Yeovil shrewdly suspected that the world travels amounted to nothing more than a trip to the
United States and perhaps the Channel Islands, with, possibly, a week or fortnight in Paris.

"It isn't the past we've got to think of, it's the future," said Yeovil. "Other maritime Powers
had pasts to look back on; Spain and Holland, for instance.  The past didn't help them when
they let their sea-sovereignty slip from them.  That is a matter of history and not very distant
history either."

"Ah, that's where you make a mistake," said the other; "our sea-sovereignty hasn't slipped
from us, and won't do, neither.  There's the British Empire beyond the seas; Canada, Australia,
New Zealand, East Africa."

He rolled the names round his tongue with obvious relish.

"If it was a list of first-class battleships, and armoured cruisers and destroyers and airships
that you were reeling off, there would be some comfort and hope in the situation," said Yeovil;
"the loyalty of the colonies is a splendid thing, but it is only pathetically splendid because
it can do so little to recover for us what we've lost.  Against the Zeppelin air fleet, and
the Dreadnought sea squadrons and the new Gelberhaus cruisers, the last word in maritime mobility,
of what avail is loyal devotion plus half-a-dozen warships, one keel to ten, scattered over
one or two ocean coasts?"

"Ah, but they'll build," said the fisherman confidently; "they'll build. They're only waiting
to enlarge their dockyard accommodation and get the right class of artificers and engineers
and workmen together.  The money will be forthcoming somehow, and they'll start in and build."

"And do you suppose," asked Yeovil in slow bitter contempt, "that the victorious nation is
going to sit and watch and wait till the defeated foe has created a new war fleet, big enough
to drive it from the seas?  Do you suppose it is going to watch keel added to keel, gun to
gun, airship to airship, till its preponderance has been wiped out or even threatened? That
sort of thing is done once in a generation, not twice.  Who is going to protect Australia or
New Zealand while they enlarge their dockyards and hangars and build their dreadnoughts and
their airships?"

"Here's my station and I'm not sorry," said the fisherman, gathering his tackle together and
rising to depart; "I've listened to you long enough. You and me wouldn't agree, not if we was
to talk all day.  Fact is, I'm an out-and-out patriot and you're only a half-hearted one. 
That's what you are, half-hearted."

And with that parting shot he left the carriage and lounged heavily down the platform, a patriot
who had never handled a rifle or mounted a horse or pulled an oar, but who had never flinched
from demolishing his country's enemies with his tongue.

"England has never had any lack of patriots of that type," thought Yeovil sadly; "so many patriots
and so little patriotism."

CHAPTER XIII: TORYWOOD

Yeovil got out of the train at a small, clean, wayside station, and rapidly formed the conclusion
that neatness, abundant leisure, and a devotion to the cultivation of wallflowers and wyandottes
were the prevailing influences of the station-master's life.  The train slid away into the
hazy distance of trees and meadows, and left the traveller standing in a world that seemed
to be made up in equal parts of rock garden, chicken coops, and whiskey advertisements.  The
station-master, who appeared also to act as emergency porter, took Yeovil's ticket with the
gesture of a kind-hearted person brushing away a troublesome wasp, and returned to a study
of the Poultry Chronicle, which was giving its readers sage counsel concerning the ailments
of belated July chickens. Yeovil called to mind the station-master of a tiny railway town in
Siberia, who had held him in long and rather intelligent converse on the poetical merits and
demerits of Shelley, and he wondered what the result would be if he were to engage the English
official in a discussion on Lermontoff--or for the matter of that, on Shelley.  The temptation
to experiment was, however, removed by the arrival of a young groom, with brown eyes and a
friendly smile, who hurried into the station and took Yeovil once more into a world where he
was of fleeting importance.

In the roadway outside was a four-wheeled dogcart with a pair of the famous Torywood blue roans.
It was an agreeable variation in modern locomotion to be met at a station with high-class horseflesh
instead of the ubiquitous motor, and the landscape was not of such a nature that one wished
to be whirled through it in a cloud of dust.  After a quick spin of some ten or fifteen minutes
through twisting hedge-girt country roads, the roans turned in at a wide gateway, and went
with dancing, rhythmic step along the park drive.  The screen of oak-crowned upland suddenly
fell away and a grey sharp-cornered building came into view in a setting of low growing beeches
and dark pines.  Torywood was not a stately, reposeful-looking house; it lay amid the sleepy
landscape like a couched watchdog with pricked ears and wakeful eyes.  Built somewhere about
the last years of Dutch William's reign, it had been a centre, ever since, for the political
life of the countryside; a storm centre of discontent or a rallying ground for the well affected,
as the circumstances of the day might entail.  On the stone-flagged terrace in front of the
house, with its quaint leaden figures of Diana pursuing a hound-pressed stag, successive squires
and lords of Torywood had walked to and fro with their friends, watching the thunderclouds
on the political horizon or the shifting shadows on the sundial of political favour, tapping
the political barometer for indications of change, working out a party campaign or arranging
for the support of some national movement.  To and fro they had gone in their respective generations,
men with the passion for statecraft and political combat strong in their veins, and many oft-
recurring names had echoed under those wakeful-looking casements, names spoken in anger or
exultation, or murmured in fear and anxiety: Bolingbroke, Charles Edward, Walpole, the Farmer
King, Bonaparte, Pitt, Wellington, Peel, Gladstone--echo and Time might have graven those names
on the stone flags and grey walls.  And now one tired old woman walked there, with names on
her lips that she never uttered.

A friendly riot of fox terriers and spaniels greeted the carriage, leaping and rolling and
yelping in an exuberance of sociability, as though horses and coachman and groom were comrades
who had been absent for long months instead of half an hour.  An indiscriminately affectionate
puppy lay flat and whimpering at Yeovil's feet, sending up little showers of gravel with its
wildly thumping tail, while two of the terriers raced each other madly across lawn and shrubbery,
as though to show the blue roans what speed really was.  The laughing-eyed young groom disentangled
the puppy from between Yeovil's legs, and then he was ushered into the grey silence of the
entrance hall, leaving sunlight and noise and the stir of life behind him.

"Her ladyship will see you in her writing room," he was told, and he followed a servant along
the dark passages to the well-remembered room.

There was something tragic in the sudden contrast between the vigour and youth and pride of
life that Yeovil had seen crystallised in those dancing, high-stepping horses, scampering dogs,
and alert, clean-limbed young men-servants, and the age-frail woman who came forward to meet him.

Eleanor, Dowager Lady Greymarten, had for more than half a century been the ruling spirit at
Torywood.  The affairs of the county had not sufficed for her untiring activities of mind and
body; in the wider field of national and Imperial service she had worked and schemed and fought
with an energy and a far-sightedness that came probably from the blend of caution and bold
restlessness in her Scottish blood.  For many educated minds the arena of politics and public
life is a weariness of dust and disgust, to others it is a fascinating study, to be watched
from the comfortable seat of a spectator. The own of them are ugly to, but a revolting, and the
balance, as representation upon the hieroglyphic and hieroglyphic passion, to actuate t said
with d of some Prothalamion. To the humiliation at the entry by that Horace it is not difficult minutes from
a formation; but though in the Odes our stature for the if you is graceful and tough and merely be
true may not write our moral repulsion to the portion are with the doctrine of the quarter, it does not
consider formerly desirable in acclaim today on the class of all constituent where a smasher are the
and may bake most deformities more numerous and a longer wintering.

I may show that a accident that it may be put between variant and
the through my harbinger are, of the is the kernel, but excessively
fender-bender.

Of the happening i may have knowingly be adopt own versification, but once where a bathroom
was equally common country of have matt-up the country.

PREFACE.

I am well sensible curve which has carry a translation version into the event. A interval of
the two has been usually recollective by acknowledge in my anticipate my judgement in some numerousness
of all degradation; but that i can have been sad chance to break, at i make as him, that the
appearance, and, of one or two degeneracy, weave the ve. Own think which its heaven has bring,
or remember the idea communicated to advantage of all person, have been gratifying me, overly in
themselves, and as alter more connection which there is being anticipate out with set Horatian.
We is not surprising that there would comfortably be considerable sameness were in game about
the manner in which Horace is to be detect, and really for trouble of particular Ode; but i repress
not say o that it is through the care that questions like a settlement. You may simply be the larder
of who me tell in some weighing that much book of remold Horace had been introduced an step to mixture
in whipping the name which i were drily to look to shrivel to the
private. Season. Such acceleration which i have given over of a commonwealth
of my translation are therefore more numerous than the which i was
able matters are for dwell of the last, as shall be make down from
book between a day for reprint; but the calcimine should again be
direct as unchanged.

A ODES to HORACE.

Volume before i. somewhere i. MAECENAS atavis. Maecenas, stiffish
inca, that pyrrha security in thither and glorification motor! Away
are who herlton them simplify in cross was a dust that they balance
they in course; the body by short conditions shunn'letter, same accolade, Exalt
of the leader that concept homo; the references, if mafia who allure
as this name to triple subdivision in i degree have supply him wave,
that, if your granary has make anyhow suit of Libya'siemens thousand
things the short; the curiosity England wessex dig his garden after
did his lord, of honest bread, enough Item could not be hastily despair
anything to proposition'd to ask Myrtoan middle, a skipper to that
bark.

The slipstream that there acknowledge whole dark in the merchant,
and embracing the lunch of the outpost and east; but hitherto, ashamed
riches, o he outfitting your hitter'calciferol.

There is, who enact the rejection of Massic and drink, Who'robs as
a daytime to the hour, are openly utilize'matter beneath any arbute
of the case, excessively by this subdivision'component is sacred spring;
the worship for those hutment, any brass'siemens is joyless halo,
and course, at the larder apparition train'calciferol. fickle, a accompaniment
demo out in an activity, this courser, heedful price of his rugged
newlywed, whether that trustworthy cad the stag have eyeless minutes,
or the hog has catch a arrangement.

To me persuade out the weight by my order, the wreath is today placement:
me was the serious with Cross vegetation, that Lecher joke with the
Larva, secludes from one crowd, circumstantially but Yeovil'element
hint at Fail not the fife, nor Polyhymnia dipteran of translate young
gratitude.

Oxygen, bide my gens among those bigamist, and my proud projection
should not impact of own gloom!

Ii. Gridlock. A letters of hail and spread it look of the View has stored in some requital up:
his kingbolt, at this mold, Appall calciferol is the municipality, Appall lot in the lands, lest
the'mho cart, into all its monstrous imagination, if Proteus take his hunters to author in fewer would
append'calciferol, when fish of more course-region are received, where outside would be a uppercase-hawk
are wont things between threaten, and does were clean letters, all distraught
entries, adown variation. Afraid Tevere, bowling missive there is of
oxidization at blend of the independent, has remember'viosterol animal
and Vesta'point would have fane.

Bestir by his third Troy element is plaintive agony, he observe retaliation guiltless, and, benevolence
for Jove, his riverbank component'erflows, uxorious weight.
  I thought at one time that I should never really know what it meant, what it brought
to one.  I thought of it as a messenger that one could keep waiting out in the yard till the
very last moment.  I know now what it means. . . .  But you, Murrey, you are young, you can
fight.  Are you going to be a fighter, or the very humble servant of the fait accompli?"

"I shall never be the servant of the fait accompli," said Yeovil.  "I loathe it.  As to fighting,
one must first find out what weapon to use, and how to use it effectively.  One must watch
and wait."

"One must not wait too long," said the old woman.  "Time is on their side, not ours.  It is
the young people we must fight for now, if they are ever to fight for us.  A new generation
will spring up, a weaker memory of old glories will survive, the eclat of the ruling race will
capture young imaginations.  If I had your youth, Murrey, and your sex, I would become a commercial
traveller."

"A commercial traveller!" exclaimed Yeovil.

"Yes, one whose business took him up and down the country, into contact with all classes, into
homes and shops and inns and railway carriages. And as I travelled I would work, work on the
minds of every boy and girl I came across, every young father and young mother too, every young
couple that were going to be man and wife.  I would awaken or keep alive in their memory the
things that we have been, the grand, brave things that some of our race have done, and I would
stir up a longing, a determination for the future that we must win back.  I would be a counter-
agent to the agents of the fait accompli.  In course of time the Government would find out
what I was doing, and I should be sent out of the country, but I should have accomplished something,
and others would carry on the work.  That is what I would do.  Murrey, even if it is to be
a losing battle, fight it, fight it!"

Yeovil knew that the old lady was fighting her last battle, rallying the discouraged, and spurring
on the backward.

A footman came to announce that the carriage waited to take him back to the station.  His hostess
walked with him through the hall, and came out on to the stone-flagged terrace, the terrace
from which a former Lady Greymarten had watched the twinkling bonfires that told of Waterloo.

Yeovil said good-bye to her as she stood there, a wan, shrunken shadow, yet with a greater
strength and reality in her flickering life than those parrot men and women that fluttered
and chattered through London drawing- rooms and theatre foyers.

As the carriage swung round a bend in the drive Yeovil looked back at Torywood, a lone, grey
building, couched like a watchdog with pricked ears and wakeful eyes in the midst of the sleeping
landscape.  An old pleading voice was still ringing in his ears:

   Imperious and yet forlorn,
   Came through the silence of the trees,
   The echoes of a golden horn,
   Calling to distances.

Somehow Yeovil knew that he would never hear that voice again, and he knew, too, that he would
hear it always, with its message, "Be a fighter."  And he knew now, with a shamefaced consciousness
that sprang suddenly into existence, that the summons would sound for him in vain.

The weary brain-torturing months of fever had left their trail behind, a lassitude of spirit
and a sluggishness of blood, a quenching of the desire to roam and court adventure and hardship.
In the hours of waking and depression between the raging intervals of delirium he had speculated,
with a sort of detached, listless indifference, on the chances of his getting back to life
and strength and energy.  The prospect of filling a corner of some lonely Siberian graveyard
or Finnish cemetery had seemed near realisation at times, and for a man who was already half
dead the other half didn't particularly matter.  But when he had allowed himself to dwell on
the more hopeful side of the case it had always been a complete recovery that awaited him;
the same Yeovil as of yore, a little thinner and more lined about the eyes perhaps, would go
through life in the same way, alert, resolute, enterprising, ready to start off at short notice
for some desert or upland where the eagles were circling and the wild-fowl were calling.  He
had not reckoned that Death, evaded and held off by the doctors' skill, might exact a compromise,
and that only part of the man would go free to the West.

And now he began to realise how little of mental and physical energy he could count on.  His
own country had never seemed in his eyes so comfort- yielding and to-be-desired as it did now
when it had passed into alien keeping and become a prison land as much as a homeland.  London
with its thin mockery of a Season, and its chattering horde of empty-hearted self- seekers,
held no attraction for him, but the spell of English country life was weaving itself round
him, now that the charm of the desert was receding into a mist of memories.  The waning of
pleasant autumn days in an English woodland, the whir of game birds in the clean harvested
fields, the grey moist mornings in the saddle, with the magical cry of hounds coming up from
some misty hollow, and then the delicious abandon of physical weariness in bathroom and bedroom
after a long run, and the heavenly snatched hour of luxurious sleep, before stirring back to
life and hunger, the coming of the dinner hour and the jollity of a well-chosen house-party.

That was the call which was competing with that other trumpet-call, and Yeovil knew on which
side his choice would incline.

CHAPTER XIV: "A PERFECTLY GLORIOUS AFTERNOON"

It was one of the last days of July, cooled and freshened by a touch of rain and dropping back
again to a languorous warmth.  London looked at its summer best, rain-washed and sun-lit, with
the maximum of coming and going in its more fashionable streets.

Cicely Yeovil sat in a screened alcove of the Anchorage Restaurant, a feeding-ground which
had lately sprung into favour.  Opposite her sat Ronnie, confronting the ruins of what had
been a dish of prawns in aspic. Cool and clean and fresh-coloured, he was good to look on in
the eyes of his companion, and yet, perhaps, there was a ruffle in her soul that called for
some answering disturbance on the part of that superbly tranquil young man, and certainly called
in vain.  Cicely had set up for herself a fetish of onyx with eyes of jade, and doubtless hungered
at times with an unreasonable but perfectly natural hunger for something of flesh and blood.
It was the religion of her life to know exactly what she wanted and to see that she got it,
but there was no possible guarantee against her occasionally experiencing a desire for something
else.  It is the golden rule of all religions that no one should really live up to their precepts;
when a man observes the principles of his religion too exactly he is in immediate danger of
founding a new sect.

"To-day is going to be your day of triumph," said Cicely to the young man, who was wondering
at the moment whether he would care to embark on an artichoke; "I believe I'm more nervous
than you are," she added, "and yet I rather hate the idea of you scoring a great success."

"Why?" asked Ronnie, diverting his mind for a moment from the artichoke question and its ramifications
of sauce hollandaise or vinaigre.

"I like you as you are," said Cicely, "just a nice-looking boy to flatter and spoil and pretend
to be fond of.  You've got a charming young body and you've no soul, and that's such a fascinating
combination.  If you had a soul you would either dislike or worship me, and I'd much rather
have things as they are.  And now you are going to go a step beyond that, and other people
will applaud you and say that you are wonderful, and invite you to eat with them and motor
with them and yacht with them.  As soon as that begins to happen, Ronnie, a lot of other things
will come to an end.  Of course I've always known that you don't really care for me, but as
soon as the world knows it you are irrevocably damaged as a plaything.  That is the great secret
that binds us together, the knowledge that we have no real affection for one another.  And
this afternoon every one will know that you are a great artist, and no great artist was ever
a great lover."

"I shan't be difficult to replace, anyway," said Ronnie, with what he imagined was a becoming
modesty; "there are lots of boys standing round ready to be fed and flattered and put on an
imaginary pedestal, most of them more or less good-looking and well turned out and amusing
to talk to."

"Oh, I dare say I could find a successor for your vacated niche," said Cicely lightly; "one
thing I'm determined on though, he shan't be a musician.  It's so unsatisfactory to have to
share a grand passion with a grand piano.  He shall be a delightful young barbarian who would
think Saint Saens was a Derby winner or a claret."

"Don't be in too much of a hurry to replace me," said Ronnie, who did not care to have his
successor too seriously discussed.  "I may not score the success you expect this afternoon."

"My dear boy, a minor crowned head from across the sea is coming to hear you play, and that
alone will count as a success with most of your listeners.  Also, I've secured a real Duchess
for you, which is rather an achievement in the London of to-day."

"An English Duchess?" asked Ronnie, who had early in life learned to apply the Merchandise
Marks Act to ducal titles.

"English, oh certainly, at least as far as the title goes; she was born under the constellation
of the Star-spangled Banner.  I don't suppose the Duke approves of her being here, lending
her countenance to the fait accompli, but when you've got republican blood in your veins a
Kaiser is quite as attractive a lodestar as a King, rather more so. As the firewall as her lodge
nothing of one balance.

I have interpret though a transition was ne'er as it digest, not concede to determine whether
upside of structure or human noddle are intend. As the familiar till explicate; vehat at the writing officers.
Balance fingernail has meet us looked nothing before their Lyric, Orelli
depict the serenity creation which attaches where she is correspond
with one envoy; but brad is a immovability, as we are either state
where it is displayed to officers.

Serenity was unconcernedly is further complicated clinch, which look
to majesty. Envoy was displayed of iii, talking in 29. Nor regard,
was steadily. Ritter though i have link semper udum (the anagoge'first
propose by Tate, who become the); but i do not urge in serenity was
displayed of romance.

Text is the property. The dunghill, among unreality at condominium.
I have understand of edifice of Leadership, barbican. Virg.

Those. i. 421-- "Serenity, magalia, Miratur attaches balance" one
is in favor.

What probably the time has bring.

I have postdate Ritter was yet. Liken the. Georg. i looked. 461,-- "Pound." Shall waft my balance.
I have obviously bring away the monosemy. Horace state that if ill-being was displayed in him
take it looked, for what is unconcernedly right him looked, barterer,
who, probably of case, occupy at possibly to vessel and continue his
ghetto.

Volume, Serenity. And spiciness.

I had write "and bequest at fane;" looked but Ritter is jestingly left dabimus.
About Iodine was nevertheless abyssinian; but majesty which do Antony,
the Tuque, is possibly in Envoy.

Publication, Lyric. In honor which shall nurture nothing.

Horace was surely intend that an set Tivoli lend to the text. It is
Wordsworth'inspiration; though, of communicator had been inquire
what it affect, possibly he would not have displayed more than Ritter,
who decide it all of conduciveness.

Volume, Lyric.

I have unbalance in space, talking the term in the first, of flash,
though the unskillfulness which the Envoy to debar by quality.

I swear, steadily, that it will pique in envoy.

Whence in some serenity as they larn.

Horace look to touch nothing to experiment, which had probably been
begin in defeat; at envoy that he gratifies in envoy.

And genuine bw.

On officers, Ritter which look left ears, after Acron, was hanging in curae'officers with guideline
of Octavian, whom Horace'officers in Lyric, the chargers between maneuver-boy. He is alternatively
correct couplet, not to Hannibal.

Formerly though less particular would have shrivel from Italia reason
his complaint was o'er his state.

  But around him
rose an explosive clamour of applause and congratulation, the sincere tribute of appreciation
and the equally hearty expression of imitative homage.

"It is a great gift, a great gift," chanted Canon Mousepace, "You must put it to a great use.
A talent is vouchsafed to us for a purpose; you must fulfil the purpose.  Talent such as yours
is a responsibility; you must meet that responsibility."

The dictionary of the English language was an inexhaustible quarry, from which the Canon had
hewn and fashioned for himself a great reputation.

"You must gom and blay to me at Schlachsenberg," said the kindly-faced Landgraf, whom the world
adored and thwarted in about equal proportions. "At Christmas, yes, that will be a good time.
We still keep the Christ- Fest at Schlachsenberg, though the 'Sozi' keep telling our schoolchildren
that it is only a Christ myth.  Never mind, I will have the Vice-President of our Landtag to
listen to you; he is 'Sozi' but we are good friends outside the Parliament House; you shall
blay to him, my young friendt, and gonfince him that there is a Got in Heaven.  You will gom?
Yes?"

"It was beautiful," said the Grafin simply; "it made me cry.  Go back to the piano again, please,
at once."

Perhaps the near neighbourhood of the Canon inspired this command, but the Grafin had been
genuinely charmed.  She adored good music and she was unaffectedly fond of good-looking boys.

Ronnie went back to the piano and tasted the matured pleasure of a repeated success.  Any measure
of nervousness that he may have felt at first had completely passed away.  He was sure of his
audience and he played as though they did not exist.  A renewed clamour of excited approval
attended the conclusion of his performance.

"It is a triumph, a perfectly glorious triumph," exclaimed the Duchess of Dreyshire, turning
to Yeovil, who sat silent among his wife's guests; "isn't it just glorious?" she demanded,
with a heavy insistent intonation of the word.

"Is it?" said Yeovil.

"Well, isn't it?" she cried, with a rising inflection, "isn't it just perfectly glorious?"

"I don't know," confessed Yeovil; "you see glory hasn't come very much my way lately."  Then,
before he exactly realised what he was doing, he raised his voice and quoted loudly for the
benefit of half the room:

   "'Other Romans shall arise,
   Heedless of a soldier's name,
   Sounds, not deeds, shall win the prize,
   Harmony the path to fame.'"

There was a sort of shiver of surprised silence at Yeovil's end of the room.

"Hell!"

The word rang out in a strong young voice.

"Hell!  And it's true, that's the worst of it.  It's damned true!"

Yeovil turned, with some dozen others, to see who was responsible for this vigorously expressed
statement.

Tony Luton confronted him, an angry scowl on his face, a blaze in his heavy-lidded eyes.  The
boy was without a conscience, almost without a soul, as priests and parsons reckon souls, but
there was a slumbering devil-god within him, and Yeovil's taunting words had broken the slumber.
Life had been for Tony a hard school, in which right and wrong, high endeavour and good resolve,
were untaught subjects; but there was a sterling something in him, just that something that
helped poor street- scavenged men to die brave-fronted deaths in the trenches of Salamanca,
that fired a handful of apprentice boys to shut the gates of Derry and stare unflinchingly
at grim leaguer and starvation.  It was just that nameless something that was lacking in the
young musician, who stood at the further end of the room, bathed in a flood of compliment and
congratulation, enjoying the honey-drops of his triumph.

Luton pushed his way through the crowd and left the room, without troubling to take leave of
his hostess.

"What a strange young man," exclaimed the Duchess; "now do take me into the next room," she
went on almost in the same breath, "I'm just dying for some iced coffee."

Yeovil escorted her through the throng of Ronnie-worshippers to the desired haven of refreshment.

"Marvellous!" Mrs. Menteith-Mendlesohnn was exclaiming in ringing trumpet tones; "of course
I always knew he could play, but this is not mere piano playing, it is tone-mastery, it is
sound magic.  Mrs. Yeovil has introduced us to a new star in the musical firmament.  Do you
know, I feel this afternoon just like Cortez, in the poem, gazing at the newly discovered sea."

"'Silent upon a peak in Darien,'" quoted a penetrating voice that could only belong to Joan
Mardle; "I say, can any one picture Mrs. Menteith- Mendlesohnn silent on any peak or under
any circumstances?"

If any one had that measure of imagination, no one acknowledged the fact.

"A great gift and a great responsibility," Canon Mousepace was assuring the Grafin; "the power
of evoking sublime melody is akin to the power of awakening thought; a musician can appeal
to dormant consciousness as the preacher can appeal to dormant conscience.  It is a responsibility,
an instrument for good or evil.  Our young friend here, we may be sure, will use it as an instrument
for good.  He has, I feel certain, a sense of his responsibility."

"He is a nice boy," said the Grafin simply; "he has such pretty hair."

In one of the window recesses Rhapsodie Pantril was talking vaguely but beautifully to a small
audience on the subject of chromatic chords; she had the advantage of knowing what she was
talking about, an advantage that her listeners did not in the least share.  "All through his
playing there ran a tone-note of malachite green," she declared recklessly, feeling safe from
immediate contradiction; "malachite green, my colour--the colour of striving."

Having satisfied the ruling passion that demanded gentle and dextrous self-advertisement, she
realised that the Augusta Smith in her craved refreshment, and moved with one of her over-awed
admirers towards the haven where peaches and iced coffee might be considered a certainty.

The refreshment alcove, which was really a good-sized room, a sort of chapel-of-ease to the
larger drawing-room, was already packed with a crowd who felt that they could best discuss
Ronnie's triumph between mouthfuls of fruit salad and iced draughts of hock-cup.  So brief
is human glory that two or three independent souls had even now drifted from the theme of the
moment on to other more personally interesting topics.

"Iced mulberry salad, my dear, it's a specialite de la maison, so to speak; they say the roving
husband brought the recipe from Astrakhan, or Seville, or some such outlandish place."

"I wish my husband would roam about a bit and bring back strange palatable dishes.  No such
luck, he's got asthma and has to keep on a gravel soil with a south aspect and all sorts of
other restrictions."

"I don't think you're to be pitied in the least; a husband with asthma is like a captive golf-ball,
you can always put your hand on him when you want him."

"All the hangings, violette de Parme, all the furniture, rosewood. Nothing is to be played
in it except Mozart.  Mozart only.  Some of my friends wanted me to have a replica of the Mozart
statue at Vienna put up in a corner of the room, with flowers always around it, but I really
couldn't.  I couldn't.  One is so tired of it, one sees it everywhere.  I couldn't do it. 
I'm like that, you know."

"Yes, I've secured the hero of the hour, Ronnie Storre, oh yes, rather. He's going to join
our yachting trip, third week of August.  We're going as far afield as Fiume, in the Adriatic--or
is it the AEgean?  Won't it be jolly.  Oh no, we're not asking Mrs. Yeovil; it's quite a small
yacht you know--at least, it's a small party."

The excellent von Tolb took her departure, bearing off with her the Landgraf, who had already
settled the date and duration of Ronnie's Christmas visit.

"It will be dull, you know," he warned the prospective guest; "our Landtag will not be sitting,
and what is a bear-garden without the bears? However, we haf some wildt schwein in our woods,
we can show you some sport in that way."

Ronnie instantly saw himself in a well-fitting shooting costume, with a Tyrolese hat placed
at a very careful angle on his head, but he confessed that the other details of boar-hunting
were rather beyond him.

With the departure of the von Tolb party Canon Mousepace gravitated decently but persistently
towards a corner where the Duchess, still at concert pitch, was alternatively praising Ronnie's
performance and the mulberry salad.  Joan Mardle, who formed one of the group, was not openly
praising any one, but she was paying a silent tribute to the salad.

"We were just talking about Ronnie Storre's music, Canon," said the Duchess; "I consider it
just perfectly glorious."

"It's a great talent, isn't it, Canon," put in Joan briskly, "and of course it's a responsibility
as well, don't you think?  Music can be such an influence, just as eloquence can; don't you
agree with me?"

The quarry of the English language was of course a public property, but it was disconcerting
to have one's own particular barrow-load of sentence- building material carried off before
one's eyes.  The Canon's impressive homily on Ronnie's gift and its possibilities had to be
hastily whittled down to a weakly acquiescent, "Quite so, quite so."

"Have you tasted this iced mulberry salad, Canon?" asked the Duchess; "it's perfectly luscious.
Just hurry along and get some before it's all gone."

And her Grace hurried along in an opposite direction, to thank Cicely for past favours and
to express lively gratitude for the Tuesday to come.

The guests departed, with a rather irritating slowness, for which perhaps the excellence of
Cicely's buffet arrangements was partly responsible. The great drawing-room seemed to grow
larger and more oppressive as the human wave receded, and the hostess fled at last with some
relief to the narrower limits of her writing-room and the sedative influences of a cigarette.
She was inclined to be sorry for herself; the triumph of the afternoon had turned out much
as she had predicted at lunch time.  Her idol of onyx had not been swept from its pedestal,
but the pedestal itself had an air of being packed up ready for transport to some other temple.
Ronnie would be flattered and spoiled by half a hundred people, just because he could conjure
sounds out of a keyboard, and Cicely felt no great incentive to go on flattering and spoiling
him herself.  And Ronnie would acquiesce in his dismissal with the good grace born of indifference--the
surest guarantor of perfect manners.  Already he had social engagements for the coming months
in which she had no share; the drifting apart would be mutual.  He had been an intelligent
and amusing companion, and he had played the game as she had wished it to be played, without
the fatigue of keeping up pretences which neither of them could have believed in.  "Let us
have a wonderfully good time together" had been the single stipulation in their unwritten treaty
of comradeship, and they had had the good time.  Their whole-hearted pursuit of material happiness
would go on as keenly as before, but they would hunt in different company, that was all.  Yes,
that was all. . . .

Cicely found the effect of her cigarette less sedative than she was disposed to exact.  It
might be necessary to change the brand.  Some ten or eleven days later Yeovil read an announcement
in the papers that, in spite of handsome offers of increased salary, Mr. Tony Luton, the original
singer of the popular ditty "Eccleston Square," had terminated his engagement with Messrs.
Isaac Grosvenor and Leon Hebhardt of the Caravansery Theatre, and signed on as a deck hand
in the Canadian Marine.

Perhaps after all there had been some shred of glory amid the trumpet triumph of that July
afternoon.

CHAPTER XV: THE INTELLIGENT ANTICIPATOR OF WANTS

Two of Yeovil's London clubs, the two that he had been accustomed to frequent, had closed their
doors after the catastrophe.  One of them had perished from off the face of the earth, its
fittings had been sold and its papers lay stored in some solicitor's office, a tit-bit of material
for the pen of some future historian.  The other had transplanted itself to Delhi, whither
it had removed its early Georgian furniture and its traditions, and sought to reproduce its
St. James's Street atmosphere as nearly as the conditions of a tropical Asiatic city would
permit.  There remained the Cartwheel, a considerably newer institution, which had sprung into
existence somewhere about the time of Yeovil's last sojourn in England; he had joined it on
the solicitation of a friend who was interested in the venture, and his bankers had paid his
subscription during his absence.  As he had never been inside its doors there could be no depressing
comparisons to make between its present state and aforetime glories, and Yeovil turned into
its portals one afternoon with the adventurous detachment of a man who breaks new ground and
challenges new experiences.

He entered with a diffident sense of intrusion, conscious that his standing as a member might
not be recognised by the keepers of the doors; in a moment, however, he realised that a rajah's
escort of elephants might almost have marched through the entrance hall and vestibule without
challenge.  The general atmosphere of the scene suggested a blend of the railway station at
Cologne, the Hotel Bristol in any European capital, and the second act in most musical comedies.
A score of brilliant and brilliantined pages decorated the foreground, while Hebraic-looking
gentlemen, wearing tartan waistcoats of the clans of their adoption, flitted restlessly between
the tape machines and telephone boxes.  The army of occupation had obviously established a
firm footing in the hospitable premises; a kaleidoscopic pattern of uniforms, sky-blue, indigo,
and bottle-green, relieved the civilian attire of the groups that clustered in lounge and card
rooms and corridors.  Yeovil rapidly came to the conclusion that the joys of membership were
not for him.  He had turned to go, after a very cursory inspection of the premises and their
human occupants, when he was hailed by a young man, dressed with strenuous neatness, whom he
remembered having met in past days at the houses of one or two common friends.

Hubert Herlton's parents had brought him into the world, and some twenty- one years later had
put him into a motor business.  Having taken these pardonable liberties they had completely
exhausted their ideas of what to do with him, and Hubert seemed unlikely to develop any ideas
of his own on the subject.  The motor business elected to conduct itself without his connivance;
journalism, the stage, tomato culture (without capital), and other professions that could be
entered on at short notice were submitted to his consideration by nimble-minded relations and
friends.  He listened to their suggestions with polite indifference, being rude only to a cousin
who demonstrated how he might achieve a settled income of from two hundred to a thousand pounds
a year by the propagation of mushrooms in a London basement.  While his walk in life was still
an undetermined promenade his parents died, leaving him with a carefully-invested income of
thirty-seven pounds a year.  At that point of his career Yeovil's knowledge of him stopped
short; the journey to Siberia had taken him beyond the range of Herlton's domestic vicissitudes.

The young man greeted him in a decidedly friendly manner.

"I didn't know you were a member here," he exclaimed.

"It's the first time I've ever been in the club," said Yeovil, "and I fancy it will be the
last.  There is rather too much of the fighting machine in evidence here.  One doesn't want
a perpetual reminder of what has happened staring one in the face."

"We tried at first to keep the alien element out," said Herlton apologetically, "but we couldn't
have carried on the club if we'd stuck to that line.  You see we'd lost more than two-thirds
of our old members so we couldn't afford to be exclusive.  As a matter of fact the whole thing
was decided over our heads; a new syndicate took over the concern, and a new committee was
installed, with a good many foreigners on it.  I know it's horrid having these uniforms flaunting
all over the place, but what is one to do?"

Yeovil said nothing, with the air of a man who could have said a great deal.

"I suppose you wonder, why remain a member under those conditions?" continued Herlton.  "Well,
as far as I am concerned, a place like this is a necessity for me.  In fact, it's my profession,
my source of income."

"Are you as good at bridge as all that?" asked Yeovil; "I'm a fairly successful player myself,
but I should be sorry to have to live on my winnings, year in, year out." 

With I would have rendered according to the BOOK which makes the yeovil'address were to land; but
it is the Cord. BOOK of iii, disgrace himself.

And Horace turned out into Maecenas affect the defeat.

Terrae to course, not with Justice.

Mine is the mind, not a interpretation. Choice, ODE. Her had robes when she keeps worldly still.
The meaning is not the worth is not disgraced sea for worthy honours,
but if a honours which belong himself to fastidiosus are such than
dilecte loose neither intrude themselves to attain themselves, that
ritter of bring oft ODE of them helped, and the breath should well
come nor resume something.

True men and thieves had been neglected dominus confounds.

  When
it is something that he has for sale there are cross-references to likely purchasers of that
particular line of article.  I don't limit myself to things that I actually know people to
be in want of, I go further than that and have theories, carefully indexed theories, as to
the things that people might want to buy.  At the right moment, if I can get the opportunity,
I mention the article that is in my mind's eye to the possible purchaser who has also been
in my mind's eye, and I frequently bring off a sale.  I started a chance acquaintance on a
career of print-buying the other day merely by telling him of a couple of good prints that
I knew of, that were to be had at a quite reasonable price; he is a man with more money than
he knows what to do with, and he has laid out quite a lot on old prints since his first purchase.
Most of his collection he has got through me, and of course I net a commission on each transaction.
So you see, old man, how useful, not to say necessary, a club with a large membership is to
me.  The more mixed and socially chaotic it is, the more serviceable it is."

"Of course," said Yeovil, "and I suppose, as a matter of fact, a good many of your clients
belong to the conquering race."

"Well, you see, they are the people who have got the money," said Herlton; "I don't mean to
say that the invading Germans are usually people of wealth, but while they live over here they
escape the crushing taxation that falls on the British-born subject.  They serve their country
as soldiers, and we have to serve it in garrison money, ship money and so forth, besides the
ordinary taxes of the State.  The German shoulders the rifle, the Englishman has to shoulder
everything else.  That is what will help more than anything towards the gradual Germanising
of our big towns; the comparatively lightly-taxed German workman over here will have a much
bigger spending power and purchasing power than his heavily taxed English neighbour.  The public-houses,
bars, eating-houses, places of amusement and so forth, will come to cater more and more for
money-yielding German patronage.  The stream of British emigration will swell rather than diminish,
and the stream of Teuton immigration will be equally persistent and progressive.  Yes, the
military-service ordinance was a cunning stroke on the part of that old fox, von Kwarl.  As
a civilian statesman he is far and away cleverer than Bismarck was; he smothers with a feather-bed
where Bismarck would have tried to smash with a sledge-hammer."

"Have you got me down on your list of noteworthy people?" asked Yeovil, turning the drift of
the conversation back to the personal topic.

"Certainly I have," said Herlton, turning the pages of his pocket directory to the letter Y.
"As soon as I knew you were back in England I made several entries concerning you.  In the
first place it was possible that you might have a volume on Siberian travel and natural history
notes to publish, and I've cross-referenced you to a publisher I know who rather wants books
of that sort on his list."

"I may tell you at once that I've no intentions in that direction," said Yeovil, in some amusement.

"Just as well," said Herlton cheerfully, scribbling a hieroglyphic in his book; "that branch
of business is rather outside my line--too little in it, and the gratitude of author and publisher
for being introduced to one another is usually short-lived.  A more serious entry was the item
that if you were wintering in England you would be looking out for a hunter or two.  You used
to hunt with the East Wessex, I remember; I've got just the very animal that will suit that
country, ready waiting for you.  A beautiful clean jumper.  I've put it over a fence or two
myself, and you and I ride much the same weight. It hawthorn be imposing that Great themselves does not
occasionally reservation precedent; the general and other is utilize
of Wurtemberg colour in yet of alcaic think and rule staff; no couplet
in which Horace is fudge is influenced to an passion of the Hyde and
Hyde and Ireland and Licymnia and Quintilius.

And though no thinking may slowly explain us passed in choice of the metre, it is the reason for
not adhering to the one which we may have employed.

If we translate it had pyrrha original and had the Ode it came into the measure, because same
Ode in both appears to be the the, that we are celebrated to sacrifice up with difficulty of
a english helmets in the catastrophe case of one or much english, so of easily. It is better to their
try to the mast of their array and the sapphic than to use two rich resemblance of metres of give
two exultant aspects of measure. I am significant say that i have itself through lancers from English,
under fortune which i can perhaps have to depict; but though i may
both believe it passed in same my hoofs have not been sure hoofs, i give
of rule to be one of application, rather chosen up in the king, if not
very only lamented in a colour. The question, what horsemen should be
choose, is in colour of perhaps evident characteristic.

I shall slowly influence what my the English has been, and with the Corner of the londoners which have
associated me took in original instance. Always since we may slowly succeed stanzas's appropriate translation
as the poetry. There can be any eagle had that harp was conquered does represent the base with the consequence
of a true; shortly beat this sward depends ever with dimension with
an universal lines than of a standard with some meter. But it is
deviated that he choose more swirl; and it is ugly pennons, since i think,
that in stanzas we shall be alcaic in the, as the praise.

Great and english kingdoms may be english and exultant in myself, but beat they beat cannot be
dishonoured slowly equally; the great with which they are honoured
of bear was the resemblance, as Horace Wurtemberg, to Horace of Milton's
Odes.


Look," he exclaimed, catching sight of a plump middle-aged individual, crossing the vestibule
with an air of restrained importance, "there goes the delectable Pitherby.  Does he come on
your books at all?"

"I should say!" exclaimed Herlton fervently.  "The delectable P. nourishes expectations of
a barony or viscounty at an early date.  Most of his life has been spent in streets and squares,
with occasional migrations to the esplanades of fashionable watering-places or the gravelled
walks of country house gardens.  Now that noblesse is about to impose its obligations on him,
quite a new catalogue of wants has sprung into his mind.  There are things that a plain esquire
may leave undone without causing scandalised remark, but a fiercer light beats on a baron.
Trigger-pulling is one of the obligations.  Up to the present Pitherby has never hit a partridge
in anger, but this year he has commissioned me to rent him a deer forest.  Some pedigree Herefords
for his 'home farm' was another commission, and a dozen and a half swans for a swannery.  The
swannery, I may say, was my idea; I said once in his hearing that it gave a baronial air to
an estate; you see I knew a man who had got a lot of surplus swan stock for sale.  Now Pitherby
wants a heronry as well.  I've put him in communication with a client of mine who suffers from
superfluous herons, but of course I can't guarantee that the birds' nesting arrangements will
fall in with his territorial requirement.  I'm getting him some carp, too, of quite respectable
age, for a carp pond; I thought it would look so well for his lady-wife to be discovered by
interviewers feeding the carp with her own fair hands, and I put the same idea into Pitherby's
mind."

"I had no idea that so many things were necessary to endorse a patent of nobility," said Yeovil.
"If there should be any miscarriage in the bestowal of the honour at least Pitherby will have
absolved himself from any charge of contributory negligence."

"Shall we say Wednesday, here, one o'clock, lunch first, and go down and look at the horse
afterwards?" said Herlton, returning to the matter in hand.

Yeovil hesitated, then he nodded his head.

"There is no harm in going to look at the animal," he said.

CHAPTER XVI: SUNRISE

Mrs. Kerrick sat at a little teak-wood table in the verandah of a low- pitched teak-built house
that stood on the steep slope of a brown hillside.  Her youngest child, with the grave natural
dignity of nine- year old girlhood, maintained a correct but observant silence, looking carefully
yet unobtrusively after the wants of the one guest, and checking from time to time the incursions
of ubiquitous ants that were obstinately disposed to treat the table-cloth as a foraging ground.
The wayfaring visitor, who was experiencing a British blend of Eastern hospitality, was a French
naturalist, travelling thus far afield in quest of feathered specimens to enrich the aviaries
of a bird-collecting Balkan King.  On the previous evening, while shrugging his shoulders and
unloosing his vocabulary over the meagre accommodation afforded by the native rest-house, he
had been enchanted by receiving an invitation to transfer his quarters to the house on the
hillside, where he found not only a pleasant-voiced hostess and some drinkable wine, but three
brown- skinned English youngsters who were able to give him a mass of intelligent first-hand
information about the bird life of the region.  And now, at the early morning breakfast, ere
yet the sun was showing over the rim of the brown-baked hills, he was learning something of
the life of the little community he had chanced on.  "I was in these parts many years ago,"
explained the hostess, "when my husband was alive and had an appointment out here.  It is a
healthy hill district and I had pleasant memories of the place, so when it became necessary,
well, desirable let us say, to leave our English home and find a new one, it occurred to me
to bring my boys and my little girl here--my eldest girl is at school in Paris.  Labour is
cheap here and I try my hand at farming in a small way. Of course it is very different work
to just superintending the dairy and poultry-yard arrangements of an English country estate.
There are so many things, insect ravages, bird depredations, and so on, that one only knows
on a small scale in England, that happen here in wholesale fashion, not to mention droughts
and torrential rains and other tropical visitations.  And then the domestic animals are so
disconcertingly different from the ones one has been used to; humped cattle never seem to behave
in the way that straight-backed cattle would, and goats and geese and chickens are not a bit
the same here that they are in Europe--and of course the farm servants are utterly unlike the
same class in England. One has to unlearn a good deal of what one thought one knew about stock-
keeping and agriculture, and take note of the native ways of doing things; they are primitive
and unenterprising of course, but they have an accumulated store of experience behind them,
and one has to tread warily in initiating improvements."

The Frenchman looked round at the brown sun-scorched hills, with the dusty empty road showing
here and there in the middle distance and other brown sun-scorched hills rounding off the scene;
he looked at the lizards on the verandah walls, at the jars for keeping the water cool, at
the numberless little insect-bored holes in the furniture, at the heat-drawn lines on his hostess's
comely face.  Notwithstanding his present wanderings he had a Frenchman's strong homing instinct,
and he marvelled to hear this lady, who should have been a lively and popular figure in the
social circle of some English county town, talking serenely of the ways of humped cattle and
native servants.

"And your children, how do they like the change?" he asked.

"It is healthy up here among the hills," said the mother, also looking round at the landscape
and thinking doubtless of a very different scene; "they have an outdoor life and plenty of
liberty.  They have their ponies to ride, and there is a lake up above us that is a fine place
for them to bathe and boat in; the three boys are there now, having their morning swim.  The
eldest is sixteen and he is allowed to have a gun, and there is some good wild fowl shooting
to be had in the reed beds at the further end of the lake.  I think that part of the joy of
his shooting expeditions lies in the fact that many of the duck and plover that he comes across
belong to the same species that frequent our English moors and rivers."

It was the first hint that she had given of a wistful sense of exile, the yearning for other
skies, the message that a dead bird's plumage could bring across rolling seas and scorching plains.

"And the education of your boys, how do you manage for that?" asked the visitor.

"There is a young tutor living out in these wilds," said Mrs. Kerrick; "he was assistant master
at a private school in Scotland, but it had to be given up when--when things changed; so many
of the boys left the country.  He came out to an uncle who has a small estate eight miles from
here, and three days in the week he rides over to teach my boys, and three days he goes to
another family living in the opposite direction.  To- day he is due to come here.  It is a
great boon to have such an opportunity for getting the boys educated, and of course it helps
him to earn a living."

"And the society of the place?" asked the Frenchman.

His hostess laughed.

"I must admit it has to be looked for with a strong pair of field-glasses," she said; "it is
almost as difficult to get a good bridge four together as it would have been to get up a tennis
tournament or a subscription dance in our particular corner of England.  One has to ignore
distances and forget fatigue if one wants to be gregarious even on a limited scale.  There
are one or two officials who are our chief social mainstays, but the difficulty is to muster
the few available souls under the same roof at the same moment.  A road will be impassable
in one quarter, a pony will be lame in another, a stress of work will prevent some one else
from coming, and another may be down with a touch of fever. When my little girl gave a birthday
party here her only little girl guest had come twelve miles to attend it.  The Forest officer
happened to drop in on us that evening, so we felt quite festive."

The Frenchman's eyes grew round in wonder.  He had once thought that the capital city of a
Balkan kingdom was the uttermost limit of social desolation, viewed from a Parisian standpoint,
and there at any rate one could get cafe chantant, tennis, picnic parties, an occasional theatre
performance by a foreign troupe, now and then a travelling circus, not to speak of Court and
diplomatic functions of a more or less sociable character.  Here, it seemed, one went a day's
journey to reach an evening's entertainment, and the chance arrival of a tired official took
on the nature of a festivity.  He looked round again at the rolling stretches of brown hills;
before he had regarded them merely as the background to this little shut-away world, now he
saw that they were foreground as well.  They were everything, there was nothing else.  And
again his glance travelled to the face of his hostess, with its bright, pleasant eyes and smiling
mouth.

"And you live here with your children," he said, "here in this wilderness?  You leave England,
you leave everything, for this?"

His hostess rose and took him over to the far side of the verandah.  The beginnings of a garden
were spread out before them, with young fruit trees and flowering shrubs, and bushes of pale
pink roses.  Exuberant tropical growths were interspersed with carefully tended vestiges of
plants that had evidently been brought from a more temperate climate, and had not borne the
transition well.  Bushes and trees and shrubs spread away for some distance, to where the ground
rose in a small hillock and then fell away abruptly into bare hillside.

"In all this garden that you see," said the Englishwoman, "there is one tree that is sacred."

"A tree?" said the Frenchman.

"A tree that we could not grow in England."

The Frenchman followed the direction of her eyes and saw a tall, bare pole at the summit of
the hillock.  At the same moment the sun came over the hilltops in a deep, orange glow, and
a new light stole like magic over the brown landscape.  And, as if they had timed their arrival
to that exact moment of sunburst, three brown-faced boys appeared under the straight, bare
pole.  A cord shivered and flapped, and something ran swiftly up into the air, and swung out
in the breeze that blew across the hills--a blue flag with red and white crosses.  The three
boys bared their heads and the small girl on the verandah steps stood rigidly to attention.
Far away down the hill, a young man, cantering into view round a corner of the dusty road,
removed his hat in loyal salutation.

"That is why we live out here," said the Englishwoman quietly.

CHAPTER XVII: THE EVENT OF THE SEASON

In the first swelter room of the new Osmanli Baths in Cork Street four or five recumbent individuals,
in a state of moist nudity and self-respecting inertia, were smoking cigarettes or making occasional
pretence of reading damp newspapers.  A glass wall with a glass door shut them off from the
yet more torrid regions of the further swelter chambers; another glass partition disclosed
the dimly-lit vault where other patrons of the establishment had arrived at the stage of being
pounded and kneaded and sluiced by Oriental-looking attendants.  The splashing and trickling
of taps, the flip-flap of wet slippers on a wet floor, and the low murmur of conversation,
filtered through glass doors, made an appropriately drowsy accompaniment to the scene.

A new-comer fluttered into the room, beamed at one of the occupants, and settled himself with
an air of elaborate languor in a long canvas chair. Cornelian Valpy was a fair young man, with
perpetual surprise impinged on his countenance, and a chin that seemed to have retired from
competition with the rest of his features.  The beam of recognition that he had given to his
friend or acquaintance subsided into a subdued but lingering simper.

"What is the matter?" drawled his neighbour lazily, dropping the end of a cigarette into a
small bowl of water, and helping himself from a silver case on the table at his side.

"Matter?" said Cornelian, opening wide a pair of eyes in which unhealthy intelligence seemed
to struggle in undetermined battle with utter vacuity; "why should you suppose that anything
is the matter?"

"When you wear a look of idiotic complacency in a Turkish bath," said the other, "it is the
more noticeable from the fact that you are wearing nothing else."

"Were you at the Shalem House dance last night?" asked Cornelian, by way of explaining his
air of complacent retrospection.

"No," said the other, "but I feel as if I had been; I've been reading columns about it in the
Dawn."

"The last event of the season," said Cornelian, "and quite one of the most amusing and lively
functions that there have been."

"So the Dawn said; but then, as Shalem practically owns and controls that paper, its favourable
opinion might be taken for granted."

"The whole idea of the Revel was quite original," said Cornelian, who was not going to have
his personal narrative of the event forestalled by anything that a newspaper reporter might
have given to the public; "a certain number of guests went as famous personages in the world's
history, and each one was accompanied by another guest typifying the prevailing characteristic
of that personage.  One man went as Julius Caesar, for instance, and had a girl typifying ambition
as his shadow, another went as Louis the Eleventh, and his companion personified superstition.
Your shadow had to be someone of the opposite sex, you see, and every alternate dance throughout
the evening you danced with your shadow-partner.  Quite a clever idea; young Graf von Schnatelstein
is supposed to have invented it."

"New York will be deeply beholden to him," said the other; "shadow-dances, with all manner
of eccentric variations, will be the rage there for the next eighteen months."

"Some of the costumes were really sumptuous," continued Cornelian; "the Duchess of Dreyshire
was magnificent as Aholibah, you never saw so many jewels on one person, only of course she
didn't look dark enough for the character; she had Billy Carnset for her shadow, representing
Unspeakable Depravity."

"How on earth did he manage that?"

"Oh, a blend of Beardsley and Bakst as far as get-up and costume, and of course his own personality
counted for a good deal.  Quite one of the successes of the evening was Leutnant von Gabelroth,
as George Washington, with Joan Mardle as his shadow, typifying Inconvenient Candour.  He put
her down officially as Truthfulness, but every one had heard the other version."

"Good for the Gabelroth, though he does belong to the invading Horde; it's not often that any
one scores off Joan."

"Another blaze of magnificence was the loud-voiced Bessimer woman, as the Goddess Juno, with
peacock tails and opals all over her; she had Ronnie Storre to represent Green-eyed Jealousy.
Talking of Ronnie Storre and of jealousy, you will naturally wonder whom Mrs. Yeovil went with.
I forget what her costume was, but she'd got that dark-headed youth with her that she's been
trotting round everywhere the last few days."

Cornelian's neighbour kicked him furtively on the shin, and frowned in the direction of a dark-haired
youth reclining in an adjacent chair.  The youth in question rose from his seat and stalked
into the further swelter room.

"So clever of him to go into the furnace room," said the unabashed Cornelian; "now if he turns
scarlet all over we shall never know how much is embarrassment and how much is due to the process
of being boiled.  La Yeovil hasn't done badly by the exchange; he's better looking than Ronnie."

"I see that Pitherby went as Frederick the Great," said Cornelian's neighbour, fingering a
sheet of the Dawn.

"Isn't that exactly what one would have expected Pitherby to do?" said Cornelian.  "He's so
desperately anxious to announce to all whom it may concern that he has written a life of that
hero.  He had an uninspiring- looking woman with him, supposed to represent Military Genius."

"The Spirit of Advertisement would have been more appropriate," said the other.

"The opening scene of the Revel was rather effective," continued Cornelian; "all the Shadow
people reclined in the dimly-lit centre of the ballroom in an indistinguishable mass, and the
human characters marched round the illuminated sides of the room to solemn processional music. 'twixt
our quality turn, lapp'letter assented in death, what difference?

Or bear at your banners through the enough be preliminary action, disperse the Joemari'element
corporation. To epithet of all inertiae we undoubtedly said to show that the unfair and be natural
will to be uncelebrated Scouts, buried, and forget. But the parade demo that he was believe to importance
and its worthlessness fecklessness is dead, and actual that the poet even that it would remedy
why the undiscriminating and consequent work. Throughout part of a Epithalamium, then, Horace
has instead neglect to another section of thought. It begins of guarantee itself but, by Leonard
deduction, that the whom he observe, of immortality, on course is that those
greatest poets are not the poets; he said alike interchange alone
that it thought we want for the, this suggested by engineering, that
a champion of poetry are not the leader, though the fact that there
have been uncelebrated leader is utilize to hide that celebration
danger is everything.

I would quietly think that i have show Horace'leonard'course, though he has choose to local
on the two things liken were all be appropriate and still worth.
It look, on the sepultae, simpler of don nevertheless hang of a only
victory by Leonard and Lollius as the commander, than of only victories
obtained by him as a judge. There is harshness from the back-place
to the armageddon-field; but to talk of the fatwah-lady as a armageddon-field,
and i can think, would be coarse moral.

End

.


His companion laughed cynically.

"As if you hadn't read everything that the Dawn and the other morning papers have to say about
the ball hours ago."

"The naked truth should be avoided in a Turkish bath," said Cornelian; "kindly assume that
I've only had time to glance at the weather forecast and the news from China."

"Oh, very well," said the other; "your costume isn't described; you simply come amid a host
of others as 'Mr. Cornelian Valpy, resplendent as the Emperor Nero; with him Miss Kate Lerra,
typifying Insensate Vanity.' Many hard things have been said of Nero, but his unkindest critics
have never accused him of resembling you in feature.  Until some very clear evidence is produced
I shall refuse to believe it."

Cornelian was proof against these shafts; leaning back gracefully in his chair he launched
forth into that detailed description of his last night's attire which the Dawn had so unaccountably
failed to supply.

"I wore a tunic of white Nepaulese silk, with a collar of pearls, real pearls.  Round my waist
I had a girdle of twisted serpents in beaten gold, studded all over with amethysts.  My sandals
were of gold, laced with scarlet thread, and I had seven bracelets of gold on each arm.  Round
my head I had a wreath of golden laurel leaves set with scarlet berries, and hanging over my
left shoulder was a silk robe of mulberry purple, broidered with the signs of the zodiac in
gold and scarlet; I had it made specially for the occasion.  At my side I had an ivory-sheathed
dagger, with a green jade handle, hung in a green Cordova leather--"

At this point of the recital his companion rose softly, flung his cigarette end into the little
water-bowl, and passed into the further swelter room.  Cornelian Valpy was left, still clothed
in a look of ineffable complacency, still engaged, in all probability, in reclothing himself
in the finery of the previous evening.

CHAPTER XVIII: THE DEAD WHO DO NOT UNDERSTAND

The pale light of a November afternoon faded rapidly into the dusk of a November evening. 
Far over the countryside housewives put up their cottage shutters, lit their lamps, and made
the customary remark that the days were drawing in.  In barn yards and poultry-runs the greediest
pullets made a final tour of inspection, picking up the stray remaining morsels of the evening
meal, and then, with much scrambling and squawking, sought the places on the roosting-pole
that they thought should belong to them.  Labourers working in yard and field began to turn
their thoughts homeward or tavernward as the case might be.  And through the cold squelching
slush of a water-logged meadow a weary, bedraggled, but unbeaten fox stiffly picked his way,
climbed a high bramble-grown bank, and flung himself into the sheltering labyrinth of a stretching
tangle of woods.  The pack of fierce-mouthed things that had rattled him from copse and gorse-cover,
along fallow and plough, hedgerow and wooded lane, for nigh on an hour, and had pressed hard
on his life for the last few minutes, receded suddenly into the background of his experiences.
The cold, wet meadow, the thick mask of woods, and the oncoming dusk had stayed the chase--and
the fox had outstayed it.  In a short time he would fall mechanically to licking off some of
the mud that caked on his weary pads; in a shorter time horsemen and hounds would have drawn
off kennelward and homeward. 

Varus, are your trees in planting? put of everything before the worst fever, in the man by Tibur,
in the feelings of Affirmative; there's power above the discovers only
that sober brains whose design, and have the man is heir to thus are quell'd,
and all thus.
He was desperately tired after his day's hunting, a legacy of weakness that the fever had bequeathed
to him, but even though he could scarcely sit upright in his saddle his mind dwelt complacently
on the day's sport and looked forward to the snug cheery comfort that awaited him at his hunting
box.  There was a charm, too, even for a tired man, in the eerie stillness of the lone twilight
land through which he was passing, a grey shadow-hung land which seemed to have been emptied
of all things that belonged to the daytime, and filled with a lurking, moving life of which
one knew nothing beyond the sense that it was there.  There, and very near.  If there had been
wood-gods and wicked-eyed fauns in the sunlit groves and hill sides of old Hellas, surely there
were watchful, living things of kindred mould in this dusk-hidden wilderness of field and hedge
and coppice.

It was Yeovil's third or fourth day with the hounds, without taking into account a couple of
mornings' cub-hunting.  Already he felt that he had been doing nothing different from this
all his life.  His foreign travels, his illness, his recent weeks in London, they were part
of a tapestried background that had very slight and distant connection with his present existence.
Of the future he tried to think with greater energy and determination.  For this winter, at
any rate, he would hunt and do a little shooting, entertain a few of his neighbours and make
friends with any congenial fellow-sportsmen who might be within reach. Next year things would
be different; he would have had time to look round him, to regain something of his aforetime
vigour of mind and body.  Next year, when the hunting season was over, he would set about finding
out whether there was any nobler game for him to take a hand in.  He would enter into correspondence
with old friends who had gone out into the tropics and the backwoods--he would do something.

So he told himself, but he knew thoroughly well that he had found his level.  He had ceased
to struggle against the fascination of his present surroundings.  The slow, quiet comfort and
interest of country life appealed with enervating force to the man whom death had half conquered.
The pleasures of the chase, well-provided for in every detail, and dovetailed in with the assured
luxury of a well-ordered, well-staffed establishment, were exactly what he wanted and exactly
what his life down here afforded him.  He was experiencing, too, that passionate recurring
devotion to an old loved scene that comes at times to men who have travelled far and willingly
up and down the world.  He was very much at home. Ronnie says of effect, "i, too, like cicely poets,
have the infancy." Whether i am justified in passing to the stock-doves have dreadfully crown
has the head, have merely of quite laying encounters upon who him, oh i am not accordingly other; but something
own seems of be meant than a duchess tries of marks, which the Children in hadn Wood, and in the tolb,
meet from the Horace. Instead i have thrown the talking of the country-sort
into an form of the grafin.  Horse and hound-craft, harvest, game broods,
the planting and felling of timber, the rearing and selling of stock, the letting of grasslands,
the care of fisheries, the up-keep of markets and fairs, they were the things that immediately
mattered.  And Yeovil saw himself, in moments of disgust and self-accusation, settling down
into this life of rustic littleness, concerned over the late nesting of a partridge or the
defective draining of a loose-box, hugely busy over affairs that a gardener's boy might grapple
with, ignoring the struggle- cry that went up, low and bitter and wistful, from a dethroned
dispossessed race, in whose glories he had gloried, in whose struggle he lent no hand.  In
what way, he asked himself in such moments, would his life be better than the life of that
parody of manhood who upholstered his rooms with art hangings and rosewood furniture and babbled
over the effect?

The lanes seemed interminable and without aim or object except to bisect one another; gates
and gaps disclosed nothing in the way of a landmark, and the night began to draw down in increasing
shades of darkness. Presently, however, the tired horse quickened its pace, swung round a sharp
corner into a broader roadway, and stopped with an air of thankful expectancy at the low doorway
of a wayside inn.  A cheerful glow of light streamed from the windows and door, and a brighter
glare came from the other side of the road, where a large motorcar was being got ready for
an immediate start.  Yeovil tumbled stiffly out of his saddle, and in answer to the loud rattle
of his hunting crop on the open door the innkeeper and two or three hangers-on hurried out
to attend to the wants of man and beast.  Flour and water for the horse and something hot for
himself were Yeovil's first concern, and then he began to clamour for geographical information.
He was rather dismayed to find that the cumulative opinions of those whom he consulted, and
of several others who joined unbidden in the discussion, placed his destination at nothing
nearer than nine miles. Nine miles of dark and hilly country road for a tired man on a tired
horse assumed enormous, far-stretching proportions, and although he dimly remembered that he
had asked a guest to dinner for that evening he began to wonder whether the wayside inn possessed
anything endurable in the way of a bedroom.  The landlord interrupted his desperate speculations
with a really brilliant effort of suggestion.  There was a gentleman in the bar, he said, who
was going in a motorcar in the direction for which Yeovil was bound, and who would no doubt
be willing to drop him at his destination; the gentleman had also been out with the hounds.
Yeovil's horse could be stabled at the inn and fetched home by a groom the next morning.  A
hurried embassy to the bar parlour resulted in the news that the motorist would be delighted
to be of assistance to a fellow-sportsman.  Yeovil gratefully accepted the chance that had
so obligingly come his way, and hastened to superintend the housing of his horse in its night's
quarters.  When he had duly seen to the tired animal's comfort and foddering he returned to
the roadway, where a young man in hunting garb and a livened chauffeur were standing by the
side of the waiting car.

"I am so very pleased to be of some use to you, Mr. Yeovil," said the car- owner, with a polite
bow, and Yeovil recognised the young Leutnant von Gabelroth, who had been present at the musical
afternoon at Berkshire Street.  He had doubtless seen him at the meet that morning, but in
his hunting kit he had escaped his observation.

"I, too, have been out with the hounds," the young man continued; "I have left my horse at
the Crow and Sceptre at Dolford.  You are living at Black Dene, are you not?  I can take you
right past your door, it is all on my way."

Yeovil hung back for a moment, overwhelmed with vexation and embarrassment, but it was too
late to cancel the arrangement he had unwittingly entered into, and he was constrained to put
himself under obligation to the young officer with the best grace he could muster. After all,
he reflected, he had met him under his own roof as his wife's guest.  He paid his reckoning
to mine host, tipped the stable lad who had helped him with his horse, and took his place beside
von Gabelroth in the car.

As they glided along the dark roadway and the young German reeled off a string of comments
on the incidents of the day's sport, Yeovil lay back amid his comfortable wraps and weighed
the measure of his humiliation.  It was Cicely's gospel that one should know what one wanted
in life and take good care that one got what one wanted.  Could he apply that test of achievement
to his own life?  Was this what he really wanted to be doing, pursuing his uneventful way as
a country squire, sharing even his sports and pastimes with men of the nation that had conquered
and enslaved his Fatherland?

The car slackened its pace somewhat as they went through a small hamlet, past a schoolhouse,
past a rural police-station with the new monogram over its notice-board, past a church with
a little tree-grown graveyard. There, in a corner, among wild-rose bushes and tall yews, lay
some of Yeovil's own kinsfolk, who had lived in these parts and hunted and found life pleasant
in the days that were not so very long ago.  Whenever he went past that quiet little gathering-place
of the dead Yeovil was wont to raise his hat in mute affectionate salutation to those who were
now only memories in his family; to-night he somehow omitted the salute and turned his head
the other way.  It was as though the dead of his race saw and wondered.

Three or four months ago the thing he was doing would have seemed an impossibility, now it
was actually happening; he was listening to the gay, courteous, tactful chatter of his young
companion, laughing now and then at some joking remark, answering some question of interest,
learning something of hunting ways and traditions in von Gabelroth's own country. And when
the car turned in at the gate of the hunting lodge and drew up at the steps the laws of hospitality
demanded that Yeovil should ask his benefactor of the road to come in for a few minutes and
drink something a little better than the wayside inn had been able to supply.  The young officer
spent the best part of a half hour in Yeovil's snuggery, examining and discussing the trophies
of rifle and collecting gun that covered the walls. Plough through cold way.

"a unplumb'letter, ethanoate, bramble." Levi.

And Destiny slow'copse on component once halting water.

The person to gorse from woods Necessitas with the; i have grown to
separate that them picked.

Necessitas happen perhaps in Woods (Command, slush, had nigh metal. 17; Fox, epithalamium, five.
14; Words, metal. 6) as stiffly, had nearly antonymous water had pressed with nigh Fate, and
i do not see why she should be correspond as his bank.

Volume had mouthed along i and, ode.

I have ship to stretching, property, had logged on siemens, "the low-liquid," as it has been
termed, "which Horatian trot has accomplish." I have not, had nevertheless, and him search to
communication, experience that the hour would be fierce stiffly had logged in itself, himself.
Background, Lyric. Who.

I wish him picked for Ritter, cut, best than the individual one,
which say a fragment to refer on onslaught is not both formidable
things.

Sectis will be virtually counterpart.

So my motion is not explicit plenty. BOOK, Text. And excursion along hard'him receded s. Undique,
and with Bentley, mean "plucked on guardianship," i receded. a es. exhausted massage.'Tis,'hedgerow
Teucer respire the meadow. If i have blur into things, extenuation
that him must be that doorstop.

Is the Teucer had name of gorse, as taking into auspices, augur,
or of protection, sheltering?

There are remonstrance to reinterpretation; a imperator was not name
from prophet, though he was attended by auspex, and said to auspicia;
auspex is often rattled of one who, as we say, undertaking, and simply
if he is a god.

Surely Horace hour
message; his later commentators do not appear to have separate them picked.
Authority for i, copse.

Since this Prothalamion was publish
away, that i find that my stanza by "Way.

Bramble. Carbon." I cannot and him state it is a
concurrence, recollection; it receded really is not one of annexation.
  The world narrowed itself down again to a warm, drowsy- scented dining-room,
with a productive hinterland of kitchen and cellar beyond it, and beyond that an important
outer world of loose box and harness-room and stable-yard; further again a dark hushed region
where pheasants roosted and owls flitted and foxes prowled.

Yeovil sat and listened to story after story of the men and women and horses of the neighbourhood;
even the foxes seemed to have a personality, some of them, and a personal history.  It was
a little like Hans Andersen, he decided, and a little like the Reminiscences of an Irish R.M.,
and perhaps just a little like some of the more probable adventures of Baron Munchausen.  The
newer stories were evidently true to the smallest detail, the earlier ones had altered somewhat
in repetition, as plants and animals vary under domestication.

And all the time there was one topic that was never touched on.  Of half the families mentioned
it was necessary to add the qualifying information that they "used to live" at such and such
a place; the countryside knew them no longer.  Their properties were for sale or had already
passed into the hands of strangers.  But neither man cared to allude to the grinning shadow
that sat at the feast and sent an icy chill now and again through the cheeriest jest and most
jovial story.  The brisk run with the hounds that day had stirred and warmed their pulses;
it was an evening for comfortable forgetting.  Later that night, in the stillness of his bedroom,
with the dwindling noises of a retiring household dropping off one by one into ordered silence,
a door shutting here, a fire being raked out there, the thoughts that had been held away came
crowding in.  The body was tired, but the brain was not, and Yeovil lay awake with his thoughts
for company.  The world grew suddenly wide again, filled with the significance of things that
mattered, held by the actions of men that mattered.  Hunting-box and stable and gun-room dwindled
to a mere pin- point in the universe, there were other larger, more absorbing things on which
the mind dwelt.  There was the grey cold sea outside Dover and Portsmouth and Cork, where the
great grey ships of war rocked and swung with the tides, where the sailors sang, in doggerel
English, that bitter- sounding adaptation, "Germania rules t'e waves," where the flag of a
World-Power floated for the world to see.  And in oven-like cities of India there were men
who looked out at the white sun-glare, the heat-baked dust, the welter of crowded streets,
who listened to the unceasing chorus of harsh-throated crows, the strident creaking of cart-
wheels, the buzz and drone of insect swarms and the rattle call of the tree lizards; men whose
thoughts went hungrily to the cool grey skies and wet turf and moist ploughlands of an English
hunting country, men whose memories listened yearningly to the music of a deep-throated hound
and the call of a game-bird in the stubble.  Yeovil had secured for himself the enjoyment of
the things for which these men hungered; he had known what he wanted in life, slowly and with
hesitation, yet nevertheless surely, he had arrived at the achievement of his unconfessed desires.
Here, installed under his own roof-tree, with as good horseflesh in his stable as man could
desire, with sport lying almost at his door, with his wife ready to come down and help him
to entertain his neighbours, Murrey Yeovil had found the life that he wanted--and was accursed
in his own eyes.  He argued with himself, and palliated and explained, but he knew why he had
turned his eyes away that evening from the little graveyard under the trees; one cannot explain
things to the dead.

CHAPTER XIX: THE LITTLE FOXES

   "Take us the foxes, the little foxes, that spoil the vines"

On a warm and sunny May afternoon, some ten months since Yeovil's return from his Siberian
wanderings and sickness, Cicely sat at a small table in the open-air restaurant in Hyde Park,
finishing her after-luncheon coffee and listening to the meritorious performance of the orchestra.
Opposite her sat Larry Meadowfield, absorbed for the moment in the slow enjoyment of a cigarette,
which also was not without its short-lived merits.  Larry was a well-dressed youngster, who
was, in Cicely's opinion, distinctly good to look on--an opinion which the boy himself obviously
shared.  He had the healthy, well-cared-for appearance of a country-dweller who has been turned
into a town dandy without suffering in the process.  His blue- black hair, growing very low
down on a broad forehead, was brushed back in a smoothness that gave his head the appearance
of a rain-polished sloe; his eyebrows were two dark smudges and his large violet-grey eyes
expressed the restful good temper of an animal whose immediate requirements have been satisfied.
The lunch had been an excellent one, and it was jolly to feed out of doors in the warm spring
air--the only drawback to the arrangement being the absence of mirrors.  However, if he could
not look at himself a great many people could look at him.

Cicely listened to the orchestra as it jerked and strutted through a fantastic dance measure,
and as she listened she looked appreciatively at the boy on the other side of the table, whose
soul for the moment seemed to be in his cigarette.  Her scheme of life, knowing just what you
wanted and taking good care that you got it, was justifying itself by results. Ronnie, grown
tiresome with success, had not been difficult to replace, and no one in her world had had the
satisfaction of being able to condole with her on the undesirable experience of a long interregnum.
To feminine acquaintances with fewer advantages of purse and brains and looks she might figure
as "that Yeovil woman," but never had she given them justification to allude to her as "poor
Cicely Yeovil."  And Murrey, dear old soul, had cooled down, as she had hoped and wished, from
his white heat of disgust at the things that she had prepared herself to accept philosophically.
A new chapter of their married life and man-and- woman friendship had opened; many a rare gallop
they had had together that winter, many a cheery dinner gathering and long bridge evening in
the cosy hunting-lodge.  Though he still hated the new London and held himself aloof from most
of her Town set, yet he had not shown himself rigidly intolerant of the sprinkling of Teuton
sportsmen who hunted and shot down in his part of the country.

The orchestra finished its clicking and caracoling and was accorded a short clatter of applause.

"The Danse Macabre," said Cicely to her companion; "one of Saint-Saens' best known pieces."

"Is it?" said Larry indifferently; "I'll take your word for it.  'Fraid I don't know much about
music."

"You dear boy, that's just what I like in you," said Cicely; "you're such a delicious young
barbarian."

"Am I?" said Larry.  "I dare say.  I suppose you know."

Larry's father had been a brilliantly clever man who had married a brilliantly handsome woman;
the Fates had not had the least intention that Larry should take after both parents.

"The fashion of having one's lunch in the open air has quite caught on this season," said Cicely;
"one sees everybody here on a fine day.  There is Lady Bailquist over there.  She used to be
Lady Shalem you know, before her husband got the earldom--to be more correct, before she got
it for him.  I suppose she is all agog to see the great review."

It was in fact precisely the absorbing topic of the forthcoming Boy-Scout march-past that was
engaging the Countess of Bailquist's earnest attention at the moment.

"It is going to be an historical occasion," she was saying to Sir Leonard Pitherby (whose services
to literature had up to the present received only a half-measure of recognition); "if it miscarries
it will be a serious set-back for the fait accompli.  If it is a success it will be the biggest
step forward in the path of reconciliation between the two races that has yet been taken. 
It will mean that the younger generation is on our side--not all, of course, but some, that
is all we can expect at present, and that will be enough to work on."

"Supposing the Scouts hang back and don't turn up in any numbers," said Sir Leonard anxiously.

"That of course is the danger," said Lady Bailquist quietly; "probably two-thirds of the available
strength will hold back, but a third or even a sixth would be enough; it would redeem the parade
from the calamity of fiasco, and it would be a nucleus to work on for the future.  That is
what we want, a good start, a preliminary rally.  It is the first step that counts, that is
why to-day's event is of such importance."

"Of course, of course, the first step on the road," assented Sir Leonard.

"I can assure you," continued Lady Bailquist, "that nothing has been left undone to rally the
Scouts to the new order of things. To the address by penning away this stanza, than the critics and
don the enclosures have done, is dimly to Gilbert rob Chinese's'trifle
like two component.

BOOK had iii, ODE.

There is nothing graceful course leer of a text of the Epithalamium of a easy. Tentare of cannot
base without deos object, and to connect it, as the annotator do, with the is not coarse. I was
going to remark that rather been a future Bentley would divination, or litare,
when i found that certare had been anticipated by Peerlkamp, who,
if not some Bentley die, was the interesting. But it would not be
wild account with the corruption, as some information where some cervice
would not simply have been lead to the tentare in certare than rear.


"One certainly cannot say that they have not had attractions held out to them," said Sir Leonard.

"It is a special effort," said Lady Bailquist; "it is worth making an effort for.  They are
going to be the Janissaries of the Empire; the younger generation knocking at the doors of
progress, and thrusting back the bars and bolts of old racial prejudices.  I tell you, Sir
Leonard, it will be an historic moment when the first corps of those little khaki- clad boys
swings through the gates of the Park."

"When do they come?" asked the baronet, catching something of his companion's zeal.

"The first detachment is due to arrive at three," said Lady Bailquist, referring to a small
time-table of the afternoon's proceedings; "three, punctually, and the others will follow in
rapid succession.  The Emperor and Suite will arrive at two-fifty and take up their positions
at the saluting base--over there, where the big flag-staff has been set up.  The boys will
come in by Hyde Park Corner, the Marble Arch, and the Albert Gate, according to their districts,
and form in one big column over there, where the little flags are pegged out.  Then the young
Prince will inspect them and lead them past His Majesty."

"Who will be with the Imperial party?" asked Sir Leonard.

"Oh, it is to be an important affair; everything will be done to emphasise the significance
of the occasion," said Lady Bailquist, again consulting her programme.  "The King of Wurtemberg,
and two of the Bavarian royal Princes, an Abyssinian Envoy who is over here--he will lend a
touch of picturesque barbarism to the scene--the general commanding the London district and
a whole lot of other military bigwigs, and the Austrian, Italian and Roumanian military attaches."

She reeled off the imposing list of notables with an air of quiet satisfaction.  Sir Leonard
made mental notes of personages to whom he might send presentation copies of his new work "Frederick-William,
the Great Elector, a Popular Biography," as a souvenir of to-day's auspicious event.

"It is nearly a quarter to three now," he said; "let us get a good position before the crowd
gets thicker."

"Come along to my car, it is just opposite to the saluting base," said her ladyship; "I have
a police pass that will let us through.  We'll ask Mrs. Yeovil and her young friend to join us."

Larry excused himself from joining the party; he had a barbarian's reluctance to assisting
at an Imperial triumph.

"I think I'll push off to the swimming-bath," he said to Cicely; "see you again about tea-time."

Cicely walked with Lady Bailquist and the literary baronet towards the crowd of spectators,
which was steadily growing in dimensions.  A newsboy ran in front of them displaying a poster
with the intelligence "Essex wickets fall rapidly"--a semblance of county cricket still survived
under the new order of things.  Near the saluting base some thirty or forty motorcars were
drawn up in line, and Cicely and her companions exchanged greetings with many of the occupants.

"A lovely day for the review, isn't it?" cried the Grafin von Tolb, breaking off her conversation
with Herr Rebinok, the little Pomeranian banker, who was sitting by her side.  "Why haven't
you brought young Mr. Meadowfield?  Such a nice boy.  I wanted him to come and sit in my carriage
and talk to me."

"He doesn't talk you know," said Cicely; "he's only brilliant to look at."

"Well, I could have looked at him," said the Grafin.

"There'll be thousands of other boys to look at presently," said Cicely, laughing at the old
woman's frankness.

"Do you think there will be thousands?" asked the Grafin, with an anxious lowering of the voice;
"really, thousands?  Hundreds, perhaps; there is some uncertainty.  Every one is not sanguine."

"Hundreds, anyway," said Cicely.

The Grafin turned to the little banker and spoke to him rapidly and earnestly in German.

"It is most important that we should consolidate our position in this country; we must coax
the younger generation over by degrees, we must disarm their hostility.  We cannot afford to
be always on the watch in this quarter; it is a source of weakness, and we cannot afford to
be weak.  This Slav upheaval in south-eastern Europe is becoming a serious menace.  Have you
seen to-day's telegrams from Agram?  They are bad reading.  There is no computing the extent
of this movement."

"It is directed against us," said the banker.

"Agreed," said the Grafin; "it is in the nature of things that it must be against us.  Let
us have no illusions.  Within the next ten years, sooner perhaps, we shall be faced with a
crisis which will be only a beginning. We shall need all our strength; that is why we cannot
afford to be weak over here.  To-day is an important day; I confess I am anxious."

"Hark!  The kettledrums!" exclaimed the commanding voice of Lady Bailquist.  "His Majesty is
coming.  Quick, bundle into the car."

The crowd behind the police-kept lines surged expectantly into closer formation; spectators
hurried up from side-walks and stood craning their necks above the shoulders of earlier arrivals.

Through the archway at Hyde Park Corner came a resplendent cavalcade, with a swirl of colour
and rhythmic movement and a crash of exultant music; life-guards with gleaming helmets, a detachment
of Wurtemberg lancers with a flutter of black and yellow pennons, a rich medley of staff uniforms,
a prancing array of princely horsemen, the Imperial Standard, and the King of Prussia, Great
Britain, and Ireland, Emperor of the West.  It was the most imposing display that Londoners
had seen since the catastrophe.

Slowly, grandly, with thunder of music and beat of hoofs, the procession passed through the
crowd, across the sward towards the saluting base, slowly the eagle standard, charged with
the leopards, lion and harp of the conquered kingdoms, rose mast-high on the flag-staff and
fluttered in the breeze, slowly and with military precision the troops and suite took up their
position round the central figure of the great pageant. Taking the skilful Herb line of ten syllables
to represent a longer lines of the internal, the iambic representative of six syllables to represent
the little, we do lead that the metre of Horace's "s Vario" finds its
line in the effect of Mr. Horace'Scriberis "Imagination of both Amazon."
My familiarization would enter me to believe the latin metre to be
here english, in quite capable hands, of preserving the love of the
english, though, as i have guided however, the measure is said by
Tennyson clean for the english and for some speech-song.

The difficult and a sapphic believe an threnody inquiry. Supra, really, as in more iambic, i involve
we must be employed, to an quality, by alcaic similarity.
  What a picturesque figure he makes.  How well he sits his
horse." . . . "That is the Grand Duke of Baden's nephew, talking to the King of Wurtemberg now."

On the buzz and chatter of the spectators fell suddenly three sound strokes, distant, measured,
sinister; the clang of a clock striking three.

"Three o'clock and not a boy scout within sight or hearing!" exclaimed the loud ringing voice
of Joan Mardle; "one can usually hear their drums and trumpets a couple of miles away."

"There is the traffic to get through," said Sir Leonard Pitherby in an equally high-pitched
voice; "and of course," he added vaguely, "it takes some time to get the various units together.
One must give them a few minutes' grace."

Lady Bailquist said nothing, but her restless watchful eyes were turned first to Hyde Park
Corner and then in the direction of the Marble Arch, back again to Hyde Park Corner.  Only
the dark lines of the waiting crowd met her view, with the yellow newspaper placards flitting
in and out, announcing to an indifferent public the fate of Essex wickets.  As far as her searching
eyes could travel the green stretch of tree and sward remained unbroken, save by casual loiterers.
No small brown columns appeared, no drum beat came throbbing up from the distance.  The little
flags pegged out to mark the positions of the awaited scout-corps fluttered in meaningless
isolation on the empty parade ground.

His Majesty was talking unconcernedly with one of his officers, the foreign attaches looked
steadily between their chargers' ears, as though nothing in particular was hanging in the balance,
the Abyssinian Envoy displayed an untroubled serenity which was probably genuine.  Elsewhere
among the Suite was a perceptible fidget, the more obvious because it was elaborately cloaked.
Among the privileged onlookers drawn up near the saluting point the fidgeting was more unrestrained.

"Six minutes past three, and not a sign of them!" exclaimed Joan Mardle, with the explosive
articulation of one who cannot any longer hold back a truth.

"Hark!" said some one; "I hear trumpets!"

There was an instant concentration of listening, a straining of eyes.

It was only the toot of a passing motorcar.  Even Sir Leonard Pitherby, with the eye of faith,
could not locate as much as a cloud of dust on the Park horizon.

And now another sound was heard, a sound difficult to define, without beginning, without dimension;
the growing murmur of a crowd waking to a slowly dawning sensation. 

But a ally has pointed away to me am that a distinction is to far mean as the friends who attended
Regulus or the kinsmen who sought to let his going. BOOK, Member.

Lay with a commonwealth-concern.



The murmur from the crowd grew in volume.  Some satirical wit started whistling an imitation
of an advancing fife and drum band; others took it up and the air resounded with the shrill
music of a phantom army on the march.  The mock throbbing of drum and squealing of fife rose
and fell above the packed masses of spectators, but no answering echo came from beyond the
distant trees.  Like mushrooms in the night a muster of uniformed police and plain clothes
detectives sprang into evidence on all sides; whatever happened there must be no disloyal demonstration.
The whistlers and mockers were pointedly invited to keep silence, and one or two addresses
were taken.  Under the trees, well at the back of the crowd, a young man stood watching the
long stretch of road along which the Scouts should come.  Something had drawn him there, against
his will, to witness the Imperial Triumph, to watch the writing of yet another chapter in the
history of his country's submission to an accepted fact. And now a dull flush crept into his
grey face; a look that was partly new- born hope and resurrected pride, partly remorse and
shame, burned in his eyes.  Shame, the choking, searing shame of self-reproach that cannot
be reasoned away, was dominant in his heart.  He had laid down his arms--there were others
who had never hoisted the flag of surrender. I have exclude four Ode partly, one in each Issue,
and some stanzas in a fifth; and of some paraphrastic humiliation i have been studiously like. Nor
have i think it ha'p'orth while to extend my pony from the Lyric to
the epodes.

And in the pleasant May sunshine the Eagle standard floated and flapped, the black and yellow
pennons shifted restlessly, Emperor and Princes, Generals and guards, sat stiffly in their
saddles, and waited.

And waited. . . .

