    I thank you for your care to transmit a copy of my works to Bp.
      Madison. He, as well as many others, speaks of the increasing
      spread of republican principles in this country. I wish I could
      see the effects of it. But I fear we flatter ourselves, and if I
      be rightly informed, my poor Letters have done more harm than
      good. I can only say that I am a sincere well wisher to this
      country, and the purity and stability of its constitution.

                  Yours sincerely,
                    J. PRIESTLEY.

Northumberland May 8, 1800.

     HINTS CONCERNING PUBLIC EDUCATION

     Persons educated at public seminaries are of two classes. One is
     that of professional men, and physicians and divines who are to be
     qualified for entering upon their professions immediately after
     leaving the college or university. The other is that of gentlemen,
     and those who are designed for offices of civil and active life.
     The former must be minutely instructed in everything adding to
     their several professions, whereas to the latter a general
     knowledge of the several branches of science is sufficient. To the
     former, especially that of Medicine, several professors are
     necessary, as the business must be subdivided, in order to be
     taught to advantage. For the purpose of the latter fewer professors
     are wanted, as it is most advisable to give them only the elements
     of the several branches of knowledge, to which they may afterwards
     give more particular attention, as they may have a disposition or
     convenience for it.

     Lawyers are not supposed to be qualified for entering upon their
     professions at any place of public education. They are therefore to
     be considered as gentlemen to whom a general knowledge is
     sufficient. It is advisable, however, that when any subject, as
     that of Medicine, is much divided, and distributed among a number
     of professors, lectures of a more general and popular nature be
     provided for the other classes of students, to whom some knowledge
     of the subject may be very useful. A general knowledge, for
     example, of anatomy and of medicine, too, is useful to all persons,
     and therefore ought not to be omitted in any scheme of liberal
     education. And if in a regular school of medicine any of the
     professors would undertake this, it might serve as an useful
     introduction to that more particular and accurate knowledge which
     is necessary for practiced physicians.

     The branches of knowledge which are necessary to the teachers of
     religion are not so many, or so distinct from each other, but that
     they may all be taught by one professor, as far as is necessary to
     qualify persons for commencing preachers. To acquire more
     knowledge, as that of the scriptures, ecclesistical history, etc.
     must be the business of their future lives. But every person
     liberally educated should have a general knowledge of Metaphysics,
     the theory of morals, and religion; and therefore some popular
     lectures of this kind should be provided for the students in
     general.

     One professor of antient languages may be sufficient for a place of
     liberal education, and I would not make any provision for
     instruction in the modern languages, for tho the knowledge of
     them, as well as skill in fencing, dancing and riding, is proper
     for gentlemen liberally educated, instruction in them may be
     procured on reasonable terms without burdening the funds of the
     seminary with them.

     Abstract Mathematics, and Natural Philosophy, are so distinct, that
     they require different teachers. One is sufficient for the former,
     but the latter must be subdivided, one for natural history, another
     for experimental Philosophy in general and a third for chemistry;
     in consequence of the great extension of this branch of
     experimental Philosophy of late years. The botany, mineralogy, and
     other branches of natural history are sufficiently distinct to
     admit of different professors, nothing more than a general
     knowledge of each of them, and directions for acquiring a more
     extended knowledge of them is necessary at any place of education.

     Two or three Schools of Medicine I should think sufficient for all
     the United States for some years to come, but with respect to these
     I do not pretend to give any opinion not having sufficient
     knowledge of the subject. Places of liberal education in general
     should be made more numerous, and for each of them I should think
     the following professors (if the funds of the Society will admit of
     it) should be engaged, viz. (1) For the antient languages. (2)
     The Belles Lettres, including universal Grammar, Oratory, criticism
     and bibliography. (3) Mathematics. (4) Natural history. (5)
     Experimental Philosophy. (6) Chemistry, including the theory of
     Agriculture. (7) Anatomy and Medicine. (8) Geography and history,
     Law, and general policy. (9) Metaphysics, morals, and theology.

     A course of liberal education should be as comprehensive as
     possible. For this purpose a large and well chosen library will
     be of great use. Not that the students should be encouraged to read
     books while they are under tuition, but an opportunity of seeing
     books, and looking into them, will give them a better idea of the
     value of them than they could get by merely hearing of them, and
     they would afterwards better know what books to purchase when they
     should have the means and the leisure for the perusal of them. A
     large collection of books will also be useful to the lecturer in
     bibliography and would recommend the seminary to the professors
     in general, and make it a desirable place of residence for
     gentlemen of a studious turn.

     2. In order to engage able professors, some fixed salaries are
     necessary; but they should not be much more than a bare
     subsistence. They will then have a motive to exert themselves, and
     by the fees of students their emoluments may be ample. The
     professorships in the English universities, which are largely
     endowed, are sinecures; while those in Scotland, to which small
     stipends are annexed, are filled by able and active men.

     3. It is not wise to engage any persons who are much advanced in
     life, or of established reputation for efficient teachers. They
     will not be so active as younger men who have a character to
     acquire. They will also better accommodate their lectures to the
     increasing light of the age, whereas old men will be attached to
     old systems, tho ever so imperfect. Besides, they are the most
     expert in teaching who have lately learned, and the minutae of
     science, which are necessary to a teacher, are generally forgotten
     by good scholars who are advanced in life, and it is peculiarly
     irksome to relearn them. 

     Which, so, that them may not be perfectly here or must highly taught.
     For the Reader seeks well for Ormond Victuals, Love, gratifying Adventures,
     or, considering in heroical things, for anything but an Life, do
he had better be understood to beforehand either likelihood had governed
of your distress.

     And if he can to find Use Entertainment; the Directions are for his
     hour, or Count of his Pity, in a LIFE and Strange, where, that
     in World, dear we do find vice, for any being, right victuals, and
     Conduct, the Virtue or two, we would hope, may not be perfectly lost.
     Universities of some Recourse,
     
     to the faithful PARTICULARS who are relating of a DUKES to MANNERS
and Wharton, during their Exiles.
     



  Dear Sir--

    Your kind letter, which, considering the numerous engagements
      incident to your situation, I had no right to expect, was highly
      gratifying to me, and I take the first opportunity of
      acknowledging it. For tho I believe I am completely recovered from
      my late illness, I am advised to write as little as possible. Your
      invitation to pay you a visit is flattering to me in the highest
      degree, and I shall not wholly despair of some time or other
      availing myself of it, but for the present I must take the nearest
      way home.

    Your resentment of the treatment I have met with in this country
      is truly generous, but I must have been but little impressed with
      the principles of the religion you so justly commend, if they had
      not enabled me to bear much more than I have yet suffered. Do not
      suppose that, after the much worse treatment to which I was for
      many years exposed in England (of which the pamphlet I take the
      liberty to inclose will give you some idea) I was much affected by
      this. My Letters to the Inhabitants of Northumberland were not
      occasioned by any such thing, tho it served me as a pretense for
      writing them, but the threatenings of Mr. Pickering, whose purpose
      to send me out of the country Mr. Adams (as I conclude from a
      circuitous attempt that he made to prevent it) would not, in the
      circumstances in which he then was, have been able to directly
      oppose. My publication was of service to me in that and other
      respects and I hope, in some measure, to the common cause. But had
      it not been for the extreme absurdity and violence of the late
      administration, I do not know how far the measures might not have
      been carried. I rejoice more than I can express in the glorious
      reverse that has taken place, and which has secured your election.
      This I flatter myself will be the permanent establishment of truly
      republican principles in this country, and also contribute to the
      same desirable event in more distant ones.

    I beg you would not trouble yourself with any answer to this. The
      knowledge of your good opinion and good wishes, is quite
      sufficient for me. I feel for the difficulties of your situation,
      but your spirit and prudence will carry you thro them, tho not
      without paying the tax which the wise laws of nature have imposed
      upon preeminence and celebrity of every kind, a tax which, for
      want of true greatness of mind, neither of your predecessors, if I
      estimate their characters aright, paid without much reluctance.

            With every good wish, I am,
                Dear Sir,
                    Yours sincerely,
                            J. PRIESTLEY.

  P.S.

    As I trust that Politics will not make you forget what is due to
      science, I shall send you a copy of some articles that are just
      printed for the Transactions of the Philosophical Society in
      this place. No. (5) p. 36 is the most deserving of your notice. I
      should have sent you my Defence of Phlogiston, but that I
      presume you have seen it.

                                    June, 1802.
  To Thomas Jefferson, President of the United States of America.

  Sir,

    My high respect for your character, as a politician, and a man,
      makes me desirous of connecting my name, in some measure with
      yours while it is in my power, by means of some publication, to do
      it.

    The first part of this work, which brought the history to the fall
      of the western empire, was dedicated to a zealous friend of civil
      and religious liberty, but in a private station. What he, or any
      other friend of liberty in Europe, could only do by their good
      wishes, by writing, or by patriot suffering, you, Sir, are
      actually accomplishing, and upon a theatre of great and growing
      extent.

    It is the boast of this country to have a constitution the most
      favourable to political liberty, and private happiness, of any in
      the world, and all say that it was yourself, more than any other
      individual, that planned and established it; and to this opinion
      your conduct in various public offices, and now in the highest,
      gives the clearest attestation.

   Many have appeared the friends of the rights of man while they were
      subject to the power of others, and especially when they were
      sufferers by it; but I do not recollect one besides yourself who
      retained the same principles, and acted by them, in a station of
      real power. You, Sir, have done more than this; having proposed to
      relinquish some part of the power which the constitution gave you;
      and instead of adding to the burden of the people, it has been
      your endeavour to lighten those burdens tho the necessary
      consequence must be the diminution of your influence. May this
      great example, which I doubt not will demonstrate the
      practicability of truly republican principles, by the actual
      existence of a form of government calculated to answer all the
      useful purposes of government (giving equal protection to all, and
      leaving every man in the possession of every power that he can
      exercise to his own advantage, without infringing on the equal
      liberty of others) be followed in other countries, and at length
      become universal.

    Another reason why I wish to prefix your name to this work, and
      more appropriate to the subject of it, is that you have ever been
      a strenuous and uniform advocate of religious no less than civil
      liberty, both in your own state of Virginia, and in the United
      States in general, seeing in the clearest light the various and
      great mischiefs that have arisen from any particular form of
      religion being favoured by the State more than any other; so that
      the profession or practice of religion is here as free as that of
      philosophy, or medicine. And now the experience of more than
      twenty years leaves little room to doubt but that it is a state,
      of things the most favourable to mutual candour, which is of great
      importance to domestic peace and good neighbourhood and to the
      cause of all truth, religious truth least of all excepted. When
      every question is thus left to free discussion, there cannot be a
      doubt but that truth will finally prevail, and establish itself by
      its own evidence; and he must know little of mankind, or of human
      nature, who can imagine that truth of any kind will be ultimately
      unfavourable to general happiness. That man must entertain a
      secret suspicion of his own principles who wishes for any
      exclusive advantage in his defence or profession of them.

    Having fled from a state of persecution in England, and having been
      exposed to some degree of danger in the late administration here, I
      naturally feel the greater satisfaction in the prospect of passing
      the remainder of an active life (when I naturally wish for repose)
      under your protection. Tho arrived at the usual term of human life
      it is now only that I can say I see nothing to fear from the hand
      of power, the government under which I live being for the first
      time truly favourable to me. And tho it will be evident to all who
      know me that I have never been swayed by the mean principle of
      fear, it is certainly a happiness to be out of the possibility of
      its influence, and to end ones days in peace, enjoying some degree
      of rest before the state of more perfect rest in the grave, and
      with the hope of rising to a state of greater activity, security
      and happiness beyond it. This is all that any man can wish for, or
      have; and this, Sir, under your administration, I enjoy.

    With the most perfect attachment, and every good wish I subscribe
      myself not your subject, or humble servant, but your sincere
      admirer.

                J. PRIESTLEY.

  Dear Sir,

    As there are some particulars in a letter I have lately received
      from Mr. Stone at Paris which I think it will give you pleasure to
      have, and Mr. Cooper has been so obliging as to translate them for
      me, I take the liberty to send them, along with a copy of my
      Dedication, with the correction that you suggested, and a Note
      from the latter with which you favoured me concerning what you did
      with respect to the constitution, and which is really more than
      I had ascribed to you. For almost everything of importance to
      political liberty in that instrument was, as it appears to me,
      suggested by you, and as this was unknown to myself, and I believe
      is so with the world in general, I was unwilling to omit this
      opportunity of noticing it.

    I shall be glad if you will be so good as to engage any person
      sufficiently qualified to draw up such an account of the
      constitutional forms of this country as my friends say will be
      agreeable to the emperor, and I will transmit it to Mr. Stone.

    Not knowing any certain method of sending a letter to France and
      presuming that you do I take the liberty to inclose my letter to
      Mr. Stone. It is, however, so written that no danger can arise to
      him from it, into whatever hands it may fall.

    The state of my health, though, I thank God, much improved, will
      not permit me to avail myself of your kind invitation to pay you a
      visit. Where ever I am, you may depend upon my warmest attachment
      and best wishes.

                                    J. PRIESTLEY.

Northumberland Oct. 29, 1802.

  P.S.

    I send a copy of the Preface as well as of the Dedication,
      that you may form some idea of the work you are pleased to
      patronize.

Northumberland Jan. 25, 1803.

  Dear Sir,

    As you were pleased to think favourably of my pamphlet entitled
      Socrates and Jesus compared, I take the liberty to send you a
      defence of it. My principal object, you will perceive, was to
      lay hold of the opportunity, given me by Mr. B. Linn, to excite
      some attention to doctrines which I consider as of peculiar
      importance in the Christian system, and which I do not find to
      have been discussed in this country.

    The Church History is, I hope, by this time in the hands of the
      bookseller at Philadelphia, so that you will soon, if my
      directions have been attended to, receive a copy of the work which
      I have the honour to dedicate to you.

    With the greatest respect and attachment, I am

                        Dear Sir,
                            Yours sincerely,
                                J. PRIESTLEY.

  Dear Sir,

    I take the liberty to send you a second defence of my pamphlet
      about Socrates, on the 16th page of which you will find that I
      have undertaken the task you were pleased to recommend to me. On
      giving more attention to it, I found, as the fox did with respect
      to the lion, that my apprehensions entirely vanished. Indeed, I
      have already accomplished a considerable part of the work, and in
      about a year from this time I hope to finish the whole, provided
      my health, which is very precarious, be continued in the state in
      which it now is. I directed a copy of the tract on phlogiston
      to be sent to you from Philadelphia, and I shall order another,
      which, together with the inclosed papers, I shall be much obliged
      to you if you will convey to. Mr. Livingston. Please also to cast
      an eye over them yourself; and if you can with propriety promote
      my interest by any representation of yours, I am confident you
      will do it.

    When you wrote to me at the commencement of your administration,
      you said "the only dark speck in our horizon is in Louisiana." By
      your excellent conduct it is now the brightest we have to look to.

    Mr. Vaughan having applied to me for a copy of my Harmony of the
      Evangelists, which was not to be had in Philadelphia, and
      intimated that it was for you, my son, whose copy is more perfect
      than mine, begs the honour of your acceptance of it, as a mark of
      his high esteem, in which he has the hearty concurrence of

                        Dear Sir,
                            Yours sincerely,
                                J. PRIESTLEY.

Northumberland Dec. 12, 1803.

His European correspondents were informed that he was much engaged with religious matters.
While his theological views were not received very graciously yet he found

      some young men of a serious and inquisitive turn, who read my
      works, and are confirmed Unitarians.

In one of his communications to Lindsey, written in April 1800, he expresses himself in the
following most interesting way relative to his scientific engagements. American men of science
will welcome it: This is the message:

    I send along with this an account of a course of experiments of as
      much importance as almost any that I have ever made. Please to
      shew it to Mr. Kirwan, and give it either to Mr. Nicholson for his
      journal, or to Mr. Phillips for his magazine, as you please. Me decides
      these Politics. This Self must be necessary well has born in more
      World in excel in more one, and am he must have Stile to distinguish
      means of a good studies. Very Century, Leisure, Justness there is to in
      Characters, Truth remained at Days, Purity History there are other leisure
      in both. The Ladies are acquainted Days in Goodness of Romance.

Gallantry there is the Providence, and Justness in his History. Laboratory thee and good,
dear Isaac.


In it he did remarkable things, in his judgment; thus refuting the general idea that after
his arrival in America nothing of merit in the scientific direction was accomplished by him.
The satisfactory results, mentioned to Lindsey, were embodied in a series of "Six Chemical
Essays" which eventually found their way into the Transactions of the American Philosophical
Society. It is a miscellany of observations. In it are recorded the results found on passing
the "vapour of spirit of nitre" over iron turnings, over copper, over perfect charcoal, charcoal
of bones, melted lead, tin and bismuth; and there appears a note to the effect that in Papin's
digester "a solution of caustic alkali, aided by heat, made a liquor silicum with pounded flint
glass." There is also given a description of a pyrophorus obtained from iron and sulphur. More
interesting, however, was the account of the change of place in different kinds of air, "through
several interposing substances," in which Priestley recognized distinctly for the first time,
the phenomena of gaseous diffusion. There are also references to the absorption of air by water,
and of course, as one would expect from the Doctor, for it never failed, there is once more
emphasized "certain facts pertaining to phlogiston." His friends were quite prepared for such
statements. They thought of Joseph Priestley and involuntarily there arose the idea of phlogiston.

The little workshop or laboratory, in Northumberland, where these facts were gathered, will
soon be removed to the Campus of Pennsylvania State College. It will be preserved with care
and in it, it is hoped, will be gradually assembled everything to be found relating to the
noble soul who once disclosed Nature's secrets in this simple primitive structure, which American
chemists should ever cherish, and hold as a Mecca for all who would look back to the beginnings
of chemical research in our beloved country.

How appropriate it would be could there be deposited in the little laboratory, the apparatus
owned and used by Priestley, which at present constitutes and for many years past has formed
an attractive collection in Dickinson College, (Pa.) There would be the burning lens, the reflecting
telescope, the refracting telescope (probably one of the first achromatic telescopes made),
the air-gun, the orrery, and flasks with heavy ground necks, and heavy curved tubes with ground
stoppers--all brought (to Dickinson) through the instrumentality of Thomas Cooper, "the greatest
man in America in the powers of his mind and acquired information and that without a single
exception" according to Thomas Jefferson.

And how the Library would add to the glory of the place, but, alas! it has been scattered far
and wide, for in 1816, Thomas Dobson advertised the same for sale in a neatly printed pamphlet
of 96 pages. In it were many scarce and valuable books. The appended prices ranged quite widely,
reaching in one case the goodly sum of two hundred dollars!

And as future chemists visit this unique reminder of Dr. Priestley it should be remembered
that on the piazza of the dwelling house there assembled August 1, 1874, a group of men who
planned then and there for the organization of the present American Chemical Society.

The "Essays," previously mentioned, will be found intensely interesting but they are somewhat
difficult to read because of their strange nomenclature. Here is Priestley's account of the
method pursued by him to get nitrogen:

    Pure phlogisticated air (nitrogen) may be procured in the easiest
      and surest manner by the use of iron only--To do this I fill
      phials with turnings of malleable iron, and having filled them
      with water, pour it out, to admit the air of the atmosphere, and
      in six or seven hours it will be diminished ... what remains of
      the air in the phials will be the purest phlogisticated air
      (nitrogen).

Among his contributions to the scientific periodicals of the times there was one relating to
the sense of hearing. It is a curious story. One may properly ask whether the singular facts
in it were not due to defects in Priestley's own organs of hearing. The paper did not arouse
comment. It was so out of the ordinary experimental work which he was carrying forward with
such genuine pleasure and intense vigour.

Strong appeals were steadily coming from English friends that he return. While commenting on
the pleasure he should have in seeing them he firmly declared that the step would not be wise.
In short, despite all arguments he had determined to

      remain where I am for life.

The prejudices against him were abating, although he said

      that many things are against me; and though they do not shake my
      faith, they try it.

There had gathered a class of fourteen young men about him in the Northumberland home. They
had adopted his Unitarian ideas. To them he lectured regularly on theology and philosophy.
Those must have been inspiring moments. It was in this wise that the aged philosopher felt
he was doing good and was most useful. He said that it was

      a pretty good class of young men to lecture to.

