CHAPTER VII.

Psamtik went at once from his father's apartments to the temple of the goddess Neith.  At the
entrance he asked for the high-priest and was begged by one of the inferior priests to wait,
as the great Neithotep was at that moment praying in the holiest sanctuary of the exalted Queen
of Heaven.

     [The temples of Egypt were so constructed as to intensify the
     devotion of the worshipper by conducting him onward through a series
     of halls or chambers gradually diminishing in size.  "The way
     through these temples is clearly indicated, no digression is
     allowed, no error possible.  We wander on through the huge and
     massive gates of entrance, between the ranks of sacred animals.  The
     worshipper is received into an ample court, but by degrees the walls
     on either side approach one another, the halls become less lofty,
     all is gradually tending towards one point.  And thus we wander on,
     the sights and sounds of God's world without attract us no longer,
     we see nothing but the sacred representations which encompass us so
     closely, feel only the solemnity of the temple in which we stand.
     And the consecrated walls embrace us ever more and more closely,
     until at last we reach the lonely, resonant chamber occupied by the
     divinity himself, and entered by no human being save his priest."
     Schnaase, Kunstaeschirhtc I. 394.]

After a short time a young priest appeared with the intelligence that his superior awaited
the Prince's visit.  Psamtik had seated himself under the shadow of the sacred grove of silver
poplars bordering the shores of the consecrated lake, holy to the great Neith. I liked the symptom. My
uncle, though between continuous feigned coughing, seemed calmer, and slept. Facia, sitting
away from him and attentive to whatever might happen, after I had I referred to sick tiptoed
to the bed, his eyes told me:

- Well it going, eh?

To which I responded with another look and a gesture

- From the best.

But God knows that neither the question nor the answer referred to the condition of the patient,
but the temporal aspect.

They spent two hours with no inside or outside the house occurred novelty worthy of being noticed,
and came, but without the usual noise, Lita and her mother and even the Don Pedro Nolasco. The
ups and downs, relatively happy, in a dark drama that unfolded, and walk around in those aged
area, much the spirit lifted me. Came three characters deeply impressed by the news that had given
them Neluco. The giant Greeting all, I shook hands in silence, with two tremendous shock that
soon I dismantle the arm at the shoulder, his granddaughter and his daughter, his eyes misted
over, I asked, loosened as they began to shelters, and in a low voice a little shaky, news drawer
on the current state of my uncle. Tell him, not as bad as they expected them and this encouraged
them to come very quietly to the door of the bedroom. Since there were watching the battle
that did not stop within the ruins of Don Celso, between the dream you drowsy and coughing he insisted,
until it rolled over in bed in one of those clashes, which left half suffocated, mouth and
eyes wide open and collecting air breathing, even with their hands. Then he hid quickly, almost
jumping in the Hall, and did both to me, not lost sight of the grief and sympathy painted on
the face. To all this, Don Pedro Nolasco, standing, rigid, motionless and silent, in the same
place that had been planted at the door. Access soon passed, and turned fall ill in the morass
of before ... But what the hell I saw that I was captivated Lituca more attention at that
time that the shock of his grandfather and the plight of my uncle? What was in it again and strange
to me? Well, quite simply, tears their eyes and pained expression on his boyish face, and
I wondered as I left my doubts: "But when this girl is cuter? "When he laughs and gurgles as the
birds the mountain, without sorrow or care, or feel, as now, in the
absence of pain themselves, compassion that will inspire others?

"And not knowing which of these two extremes to choose, I remained with the two, because it's
true that laughing or crying, I was really cute creature.

Fearing that too much impressed with frequent contemplation of that distressing picture human
misery, so new to her, advised her to refrain from entering the room the patient. To which
I replied with a force resolution to be imposed:

- Well, now you have to do, Don Marcelo! ... Go! Go! ... Do you think I am of fuss, just in
case? I will not say that at first I shrink a little, but then ... Go! Go! And finally, for the
chances are the mighty, and now or never. On my Poor Mr. Don Celso! ...

- Leave it, leave it - I said almost the same time the rosy Mari Pepa, throwing the last their coats
on a chair floating on top of which had just shed Lituca -, let in and out whenever you want,
which is good jacerse all, as she will jiciendo because I know it well. When you have to hold
off on that point, is to my father. Cayouette the news as a rock in the neck, and aturdióse as Nah,
you see him. I did not know if leaving home or bring; but vile Roncero of being alone and very
arrimao to cum, and jícele your taste, it was also ours, because it placed here, it may take
more or less to return home, and better than nowhere will the venturao with us wherever it
is. What is it's aterecío coldness, is not it, father? And look in the kitchen there is good
light, do not you, don Marcelo? Nah, you depart and be more of these things that Amurrio and
intimidate, while acompañao be fine with going in and out ... and
by the way, look that adds good for Tona what the ollon great that
we are three more mouths ... Daughter, what silly occur to one when
do not know what he says or take the times as they come!

Entendióme "So, Father? ... And Nah, you, Don Marcelo, what you have paez of this mine, as
if you were in my house?

Everything seemed fine, until the style, and taking precautions to avoid being Mari Pepa patient's
hearing and decision of Lituca, and in particular, face to put to declarármela. I drove myself
to the kitchen at Don Pedro Nolasco, who was left fetch and carry like a child confused, and
I sat on the couch in my uncle, leaving the care of Tona and Chisco,
which was around then, with orders to entertain him and encouraged
... and gave him the eat as much as requested, if asked.

I would return there often, and the ladies they would also from time to time. In the meantime, lots
of wood by hand and constantly good fire.

Before leaving the kitchen, I looked out the door cristalejos giving the balconazo of that
facade, and saw the colored clouds still blackening and whitening and a little peaks in front and
to the prairies of the valley by some sites.

When I go into my uncle, and had seized him and his surrounding Lituca and his mother, and
sent to their regular chores Facia, not being necessary their presence there then. In ordering
furniture, clothes and bottles and bottles of potions, straightened rugs and mats, which were
plentiful in the soil, graduated and headed in light of the paneled window and coming in the
door so not to give in full in the face of sick, and he even cleaned the cold, clammy sweat that
glistened on his forehead, and he arranged covers and pillows, but this, as well as when working
out, without make noise or raising dust or cause the slightest mortification to the patient.
I was glad contemplate that beneficent fairy work. My uncle, choking cough, awakening some sometimes
from their slumber, opened his eyes, his gaze fell upon us hampered
and voracious, and again then closed them to fall back into slumber.

When taking advantage of these joints to give a few sips of broth or "scoop" medicinal "he corresponded"
Tomabal between groans and angry protests stammered.

About noon it cleared a bit and we pondered much how bad it was. Came in Neluco this, and not
by courtesy tried to convince them otherwise.

But he urged to carry with patience her work, since he was not required unless a man of his faith
and his belt.

To which I replied the patient, with all the ire he could find in the pile of own ruins:

- Do you still get something of NA paez my patience, condenao? With the mita of what I have loved
you I see mediquín, quacks of demons, to see which side Put them ... Well man! ...

Intervened all inclusive Neluco to calm him down, and calmed down soon, but not the least said
idea of ​​preparing for death. On this point the doctor had been
very upset.

He said, bid farewell to Don Sabas was absent from the place, helping the dying of another people whose
pastor was ill. Upon hearing he had sent a self, but as to the people had many sticks on the way
to measure and the snow was thickening by the minute, although Don Sabas would try not to lose
one when he heard what was happening in the house, Were you to know what time the evening
was coming, and if you arrive on time and!

Not to get too close to the giant of the table Castañalera impressed him so sadly, ate with
him at all lazy in the kitchen, served by Tona, while his mother
kept the patient.

That was not so tasty food for me and I did not forget other, rather than so recent date,
so elated that made those two diners in the latter, somewhat out of respect for the sadness
'official' of the house, and more for the pain the reasons for the sadness that I gave, ate
little and spoke less.

Less talked about yet they, don Pedro Nolasco, who never said a word, but, instead, what engulf
his so great!

Before we finished eating, we learned from Facia the patient had fallen asleep again and that "the snow
was trapeu so again, that was gustu." I remembered the absence of Don Sabas and the need to made
by my uncle, and I received the news with much pleasure as felt by the mother to give me Tona.

According
ran the afternoon, clutching the storm and the anxieties of the patient, was still struggling with
them eyes closed and unaware, apparently, of what was happening. God knows what we are worried
that these symptoms and was eager to insinuate what Neluco wanted, since it is not anticipated
to hint at, but what good would Overture while we did not hand the Priest? These questions and
subsequent questions, was the dark, a little after four, with a trio of snow on the valley
and snow thick and continuous and was alarmed me much, because supposed to Don Sabas on the
way and thought the dangers that could run. Meanwhile, the kitchen is filled little by little people
came to hear of Don Celso and volunteer for all sorts of chores around the house in those test
hours, and I do not dislike me so well together on the occasion of
so much trouble.

A Don Pedro Nolasco was happening the same, and even began to talk with fellow members and Laughing
allowed certain predictions about the disease and almost bit old friend your soul ... precisely
at the moment my uncle out of his stupor and after persistent to tour the room with dazed eyes, said
to distress of breathing, as if you could fit in the chest and an
air bubble to another without having vacated the same:

- Now ...
now is to really leave, my children, and prepare to travel to every
rule.

Charity make me tell the priest that I call for what he knows ... if there is any of packages that
I distinguish badly from here, because I do not know if the little light in the room, or because
it has started to fade and my eyes ... Sabas! ... Sabas! ...

All those present heard and callábamos, and we looked at each other not knowing what to say.
How to tell the priest was not in the house or in town? ... But so what obfuscation absurd it
was! What problem was to entertain the impatience, responding who had come to tell and that
was about to arrive?

This was going to answer me the same time I approached his bed with
Lita and Mari-Pepa, made a sea of ​​tears as Facia was leaning against
the back wall with his arms folded, head bent over chest and eyes,
dry, saddened and still, stuck in the face of his corpse master, when
he returned to exclaim, but with a verve inconceivable in its miserable
state:

- Sabas!

Sabas! ...

By this I heard a harsh beating, as the result of Carrejo in the Hall,
and at the same time a voice that would respond to strong calls:

-
There he goes, jinojo!

...

I knew the voice, jumped back to the door, and saw that the lounge was up package that the
same could be a mountain jaral as should be all those moments, a gauge and hombrazo talares
Don Sabas, for he was snowed head and shoulders and everywhere I looked out a relief, however
little, Espido in their long and garments, and go and shake the very attempt, threw in soil dusty
snow falls, as falls from Matos shakes and shakes when the raging gale. I went to meet him and
shake to help wipe ... nothing, because of two detached bativoleos floating everything dripped
on him. This was, in a jiffy, smooth and mondo from head to toe, that is, short jacket and hair.
While it was stripped of those wraps and accessories, he said:

- Ah! because thanks to the gray horse has more guts than Paez, and was able to footman that
I carried him halfway to the legs, if not ... Jinojo! I tell thee that we do not live none of
the three, because I have seen snow as I live, but like this, go, go! ... What happens to poor
Don Celso, man? When I went there I say, not me took fright, because I was afraid I was coming
every day. The worst part was that he dying person, not just unhappy, and it was not to abandon
him in such a trance ... Well Care if you get for not finishing in the afternoon of God ... To all
this, the snow thick and closed roads. Look you what time to put this one in the agony! ... If what
Satan JINCEN the tooth for the souls, is much story! A well that it was not for lack of mine
warnings, but this Celsus, to be as a man of faith, is inherently so ...

All that we said already, and I almost cried, the better the cure
to his bedroom door friend, where he interrupted a call disjointed
reasoning as before.

- Sabas!

Sabas!

- Here I am, man! "- Replied the priest -.

Care is the subject! ... Look, with the rush better Sallu not you have them now ...

- That's it - my uncle grumbled -. For comfort of my ajogos, tíñeme and vociférame, pispajo!

-
Do you have to fight, man, do you have to fight! - Don Sabas said to him then that face of those
miserable ruins of his friend and comrade of his life, failed to contain the tears that flowed in
his eyes - or how I will scream! ... Well then would Thus, jinojo! ... but as I came, I could not
come, because of force majeure. And just think you then! Figúratelo, Celso! ... Go - added suddenly
interrupting his speech and passing look around the room and accented with a movement of his
arms, very significant -: here on all but the patient and me, because
what will happen between us, not support one other witness, who is
Lord and Judge of lives and souls.

We leave those who don Sabas sobrábamos and closed the door from inside.

I do not know what went through me then, but I declare that I was very touched and even cried,
hiding much like a weakness unworthy of strong men.

They came the tears shameful "the spread of other more free? Were torn my heart with grief to
see that, my relative in a state so miserable and compassionate? Am the produce that strange
scene he had just witnessed between the priest and the sick, through whose coarse warp distances
left to seek grants and admirable? Might have on them some of each and every one of these ingredients,
but the fact is that I cried, but not as well as women who gathered
with me, as they were entering on tiptoe the room where we were many
of the pundits in the kitchen that had been amassed in Carrejo after
the arrival of the priest, transfixed with grief ... and curiosity.

Facia The light bulb had lit in the bedroom to get out of it, and still kept in hand, lit up a little darkened
those jaws, and so I could glimpse of clogged, materially, huddled figures and oscillating looked
at us with impatience greedy, and even I could have sworn that back in the background, behind
all the mass, but rising one elbow on the head of more Tallud glistened
like two lanterns in a tunnel, big eyes giant green and bulging of
the Castañalera.
     We notice also that sons, in speaking of their descent, more
     frequently reckon it from the mother's than the father's side, that
     a married woman is constantly alluded to as the "mistress" or "lady"
     of the house, that according to many a Greek Papyrus they had entire
     disposal of all their property, no matter in what it consisted, in
     short that the weaker sex seems to have enjoyed equal influence with
     the stronger.]

Even the Greeks, who in so many things may serve as patterns to us, do not know how to appreciate
woman rightly.  Most of the young Greek girls pass their sad childhood in close rooms, kept
to the wheel and the loom by their mothers and those who have charge of them, and when marriageable,
are transferred to the quiet house of a husband they do not know, and whose work in life and
in the state allows him but seldom to visit his wife's apartments.  Only when the most intimate
friends and nearest relations are with her husband, does she venture to appear in their midst,
and then shyly and timidly, hoping to hear a little of what is going on in the great world
outside.  Ah, indeed! we women thirst for knowledge too, and there are certain branches of
learning at least, which it cannot be right to withhold from those who are to be the mothers
and educators of the next generation.  What can an Attic mother, without knowledge, without
experience, give to her daughters?  Naught but her own ignorance.  And so it is, that a Hellene,
seldom satisfied with the society of his lawful, but, mentally, inferior wife, turns for satisfaction
to those courtesans, who, from their constant intercourse with men, have acquired knowledge,
and well understand how to adorn it with the flowers of feminine grace, and to season it with
the salt of a woman's more refined and delicate wit.  In Egypt it is different.  A young girl
is allowed to associate freely with the most enlightened men. Youths and maidens meet constantly
on festive occasions, learn to know and love one another.  The wife is not the slave, but the
friend of her husband; the one supplies the deficiencies of the other.  In weighty questions
the stronger decides, but the lesser cares of life are left to her who is the greater in small
things.  The daughters grow up under careful guidance, for the mother is neither ignorant nor
inexperienced. To be virtuous and diligent in her affairs becomes easy to a woman, for she
sees that it increases his happiness whose dearest possession she boasts of being, and who
belongs to her alone. They were then
out two by two young doctors, going to be at the edge of the table in front the giant. Many
of them wore glasses decrease to examine further. Others the most handsome and good-looking, laughed
and pushed his elbow, looking at the simple eyes Gillespie's face and making hidden assumptions
about their enormities, which caused the scandal and the protests of their partners more serious
and virtuous.

Appeared at last litter Father of Teachers, supported by eight young university, sweaty panting
after this climb in a spiral. It opened the door of the box Momar laptop came with its four
tasseled cap and gown long tail, which hastened to hold two teacher
trainees.

Progress was solemnly on the table, and behind his steps all the accompanying final Bass doctors,
who did not hide the wrinkles and gray hairs on their faces matronly.

The teacher ran to Flimnap placed in the center of the table, a chair, which was the same he had taken
to give the giant his history lesson. The high character sat on it, taking aside the obsequious
translator.

All academic procession remained behind rigid and in profound silence, waiting for it to sound authoritative
voice of the teacher of teachers. So the doctors stopped their laughter unruly youth and their
daring comments Momar sit.

This was an eye to the lens provided by Flimnap, and seeing about the face of giant reduced almost
to the proportions of a being from the same species, could not repress
a movement surprise.

Was watching him with a thoughtful expression, which revealed intense work mental. At last he murmured,
turning to Flimnap, but his gaze away from giant

- Who do you think, Professor? ... I've seen that face somewhere .... I can not remember exactly,
but it is absolutely equal to one I have seen many times .... Who
will?

Flimnap murmured vague words to excuse their ignorance.

Sorry can not help his illustrious boss in this work of memory. But though his voice was calm
and quiet her gesture, the concern was running through his body waves nerve at various temperatures.
He knew perfectly well Who is it like the gentleman giant, but was
careful not to reveal the Father of the Masters.

For his part, Gillespie was so impressed as the translator. Seeing the powerful visitor was
a glass with an eye to know better, he believed the case do the same,
and courteous reciprocity.

It took the great circle of glass on the table, and place it in one eye was so overwhelmed, that
is very close to that fall hard and transparent as a missile, killing
several doctors of courtship.

- I must be dreaming - he said the
engineer -.

This can not be. Are too many surprises together so that I accept as reality what I see at
this time.

Two days earlier had referred to himself as a pigmy and drag.

That Ra-Ra was another Edwin Gillespie likeness was so accurate. And now ....
- No doubt, I'm sleeping - again he said -. This is impossible.

But
did not need much reflection to give to disregard the idea of ​​dreaming.
Had to accept every whim a reality that seemed to take pleasure in
provoking his astonishment, offering amazing similarities.

To convince
himself that he was awake and wide awake, he found a certain pleasure
in examining all the physical details of the illustrious Momar, which
made him an exact reproduction although in very small scale, of another
person exists in the world of human giants.

The Parent Teacher was
Mrs. Augusta Haynes, Margaret's mother. 

Gillespie imagined her,
via backward posts twins, dressed in a suit bizarre and wonderful
doctor to attend a masked ball.
A king of Babylon once took a Persian wife; in the broad plains of the Euphrates she fell sick
of longing for her native mountains; he caused a gigantic structure to be raised on arches,
and the summit thereof to be covered with a depth of rich earth; caused the choicest trees
and flowers to be planted there, and watered by artificial machinery.  This wonder completed,
he led his wife thither; from its top she could look down into the plains below, as from the
heights of Rachined, and with this costly gift he presented her.  Tell me, could even an Egyptian
give more?"

     [This stupendous erection is said to have been constructed by
     Nebuchadnezzar for his Persian wife Amytis.  Curtius V.  5.
     Josephus contra Apion. I.  19.  Antiquities X. II. 1.  Diod. II. 10.
     For further particulars relative to the hanging-gardens, see later
     notes.]

"And did she recover?"  asked Nitetis, without raising her eyes.

"She recovered health and happiness; and you too will soon feel well and happy in our country."

"And now," said Ladice with a smile, what, think you, contributed most to the young queen's
recovery?  the beautiful mountain or the love of the husband, who erected it for her sake?"

"Her husband's love," cried the young girls.

"But Nitetis would not disdain the mountain either," maintained Bartja, "and I shall make it
my care that whenever the court is at Babylon, she has the hanging-gardens for her residence."

"But now come," exclaimed Amasis, "unless you wish to see the city in darkness.  Two secretaries
have been awaiting me yonder for the last two hours.  Ho! Sachons! give orders to the captain
of the guard to accompany our noble guests with a hundred men."

"But why? a single guide, perhaps one of the Greek officers, would be amply sufficient."

"No, my young friends, it is better so.  Foreigners can never be too prudent in Egypt.  Do
not forget this, and especially be careful not to ridicule the sacred animals.  And now farewell,
my young heroes, till we meet again this evening over a merry wine-cup."

The Persians then quitted the palace, accompanied by their interpreter, a Greek, but who had
been brought up in Egypt, and spoke both languages with equal facility.

     [Psamtik I. is said to have formed a new caste, viz.: the caste of
     Interpreters, out of those Greeks who had been born and bred up in
     Egypt.  Herod. II. 154.  Herodotus himself was probably conducted by
     such a "Dragoman."]

Those streets of Sais which lay near the palace wore a pleasant aspect. The houses, many of
which were five stories high, were generally covered with pictures or hieroglyphics; galleries
with balustrades of carved and gaily-painted wood-work, supported by columns also brightly
painted, ran round the walls surrounding the courts.  In many cases the proprietor's name and
rank was to be read on the door, which was, however, well closed and locked.  Flowers and shrubs
ornamented the flat roofs, on which the Egyptians loved to spend the evening hours, unless
indeed, they preferred ascending the mosquito-tower with which nearly every house was provided.
These troublesome insects, engendered by the Nile, fly low, and these little watch-towers were
built as a protection from them.

The young Persians admired the great, almost excessive cleanliness, with which each house,
nay, even the streets themselves, literally shone.  The door-plates and knockers sparkled in
the sun; paintings, balconies and columns all had the appearance of having been only just finished,
and even the street-pavement looked as if it were often scoured.

     [The streets of Egyptian towns seem to have been paved, judging from
     the ruins of Alabastron and Memphis.  We know at least with
     certainty that this was the case with those leading to the temples.]

But as the Persians left the neighborhood of the Nile and the palace, the streets became smaller.
Sais was built on the slope of a moderately high hill, and had only been the residence of the
Pharaohs for two centuries and a half, but, during that comparatively short interval, had risen
from an unimportant place into a town of considerable magnitude.

On its river-side the houses and streets were brilliant, but on the hill- slope lay, with but
few more respectable exceptions, miserable, poverty- stricken huts constructed of acacia-boughs
and Nile-mud.  On the north- west rose the royal citadel.

"Let us turn back here," exclaimed Gyges to his young companions.  During his father's absence
he was responsible as their guide and protector, and now perceived that the crowd of curious
spectators, which had hitherto followed them, was increasing at every step. 

The day before he returned to the city late, after being feted and admired for several hours
over a hundred thousand women. His speech on the steps of the temple black lightning had heard
this huge crowd, interrupting him with applause. Its success was as loud as the young poet's
rival Golbasto. Had never dreamed with such glory, even in times of adolescence, when newly
entered the studious life, his enthusiasm made him accept the possibility of the most unprecedented
elevations.

Slept badly, as the taste of his success seemed to repel the dream. But when dropped from his
university room, enjoying in advance the congratulations of some teachers and the envy of all
his pride broke triumphantly to reality. He heard the terrified The giant had done the previous
afternoon. Many of those who spoke had attended Momar to the talk show and they were still crowded
with indignation to remember giant shells, some of which had come to splash them or to persons
their families.

The Father of the Masters was in bed after this event, but without known disease. Golbasto, the
great national poet, had retreated vowing revenge on the barbaric
intruder.

The concurrent saw him with a bandage under his crown of laurel,
for he had broken pate falling to the ground under the trip Momar
giant.

- What have you done? - Repeated the professor.

Many who witnessed the incident had forgotten the insolence of the man-mountain for concerned
only with the purpose of other action of his that seemed mysterious. After the giant crowd
was cleared from the halls of Momar, doing all the background to
flee the house to escape the bombardment liquid, raised his stature
and went to a certain instead of the facade of the University, releasing
several shrill whistles with a hurricane.

Doctors scholars who stayed in their rooms trying to hide, believe man-mountain that had gone mad
and wanted to crush them. But before closing windows of their homes could see how it ran on
the roof a man wrapped in veils, how the giant took one of his hands, putting it in a pocket
of his suit, and how fast undertook a march, led by this man unknown to the Gallery Industry,
without waiting for the trumpets sounded again and to meet the squad
escorted him on his walk.

- What will happen now? - Continued the
frightened teacher.

The gossips had been given to understand that the Father of the teachers
suspected if intruder would be helped by the giant Ra-Ra.

- I am
afraid, gentleman, who by this time the police are aware that in fact
the this man was Ra-Ra and protected by you, came into our house to
see her .... Popito You, gentleman, mixing in political affairs of
our country and support in a way so brazen he a propagandist of the
"male" enemy of peace of the state!

Shiver I tremble for you and me.

Gillespie did not need to hear the teacher to realize the gravity of his act. But reborn their
anger to remember the sting of those pygmies, and believed still feel pain her legs. Why not sleep
had left him alone? ...

However, the teacher's desperate gestures served to make him think he was humanity at the mercy
of that pygmy, despicable for him, but which could not feed or attend
to other care she needed him.

Flimnap, thinking she saw in his face a reflection of intense anger,
recommended calm.

- Do not be exalted, gentleman, on the contrary,
you should be prudent and conciliatory.

I this will be fixed eventually. Can you to apologize to the Father
of the Masters.

I explain that everything is due to their ignorance of our language and our customs. What
worries me most is what Ra-Ra, but if no other remedy, and abandon the follow your destiny. Love
is selfish, gentleman. Before you come to this land I had made the greatest sacrifices for
the young. But now is not the same, now you are here, and beyond anything I'm interested in
him.

Professor seemed to have forgotten all the concerns that saddened
him moments before, the jump-lift plate.

He had put his eye to a reduction lens to see Gentleman's face-Mountain, and this made him smile
sweetly.

- I think when the time - said insinuating voice - to show you my soul. While you were living sheltered
from dangers, I did not dare to say what I feel. Shyness possessed me anyone who has spent
his life among books, watching from afar to the people. But after the madness of you, the situation
is different. Perhaps the conflict with our Father in Teachers will finally be fixed, but
right now the situation is bad. You at large risks, and therefore consider it appropriate to
express what I had not dared to say a better chance. Listen well, gentleman, and do not laugh
at me .... I love him a little and I am interested in your happiness .... Why not speak more
clearly? ... I love you, gentleman, and want to spend the rest of my life with you, dedicating
his service at all.

Despite his bad mood for adventure in the University and by the persecution that could to experience
these Pygmies, of whom was a slave, Gillespie could not help but
laugh.

After stifled her laughter to apologize politely

- Do not think, Professor, that I laugh at you. I am very grateful for daring to such insolence. My
laugh is a surprise .... In my country, rarely a woman declares her
love for man.

- Well here is extraordinary - said Flimnap -.

Remember that all women go, and therefore for us to the initiative in matters of love.

- Also - Edwin said - you forget the insurmountable obstacle that nature has established between
the two to create us with such different sizes.

I see you through your lens reduction and thinking I was excited for her size. Contémpleme as I am, and
be convinced that much I loved you would never be a wife of pocket.

- Oh, gentleman! - She interrupted plaintively -. Do not be materialistic in their views, not
display their feelings rude to judge people by their size. Why not can love two souls through their
containers completely different? ... Now that you I know, gentleman, I realize that my whole life
I've been waiting for his arrival. Always My soul felt the pull of
the heights, always dreamed of something vastly larger.

My spirit viewed with indifference the pettiness of our everyday life. I could only love a giant and
the giant has come.

Do not you think that a higher power has given us to each other? ...

The Gentleman-Mountain just answered this question with an ambiguous gesture. But the hot teacher
continued:

- I do not demand that I respond immediately.

I confess that this expression of my feelings is a little violent and you did not expect.
Except for the danger that threatens him, I had refrained from talking about this for a long time. But
in the end, what I should say already said. Think you check your heart, wait for an answer.
What I needed let you know as soon as possible is that I am for you
just a translator and I look forward to participating of his fate,
running their own dangers, if the situation worsens.

Gillespie, holding back laughter again to shake his chest, he replied vaguely the passionate
college. Obey his instructions, study carefully preferences of his soul. But for now, the top
priority was to resolve the situation, which it claims seemed anxious.

- I shall leave you, gentleman - said Flimnap -. Anything with his remaining hand to hold pleasant
conversation, but that is sterile.

I need to know news. Momar has powerful friends and must have done something by this time
against Ra-Ra. In addition, we must fear the Golbasto. Guess from here that his buggy pulled
by three men, horses must be rolling Through the capital since early
morning.

A screening will know what the dreaded poet! ...

Before disappearing for one of the hatches, still fell into the giant Flimnap to say quietly:

- If you come to seek the Ra-Ra, not to strive to defend it, would
be worse for him and for you.

Let abandoned to their fate. We must only think of our future. I always I believed that love
is not selfish not deserve the name of love.

And squinting eyelids caressing expression behind the glass of his spectacles, the teacher disappeared
down the ramp.

Only then will the man-mountain lowered his eyes to look to himself, setting them on his chest.
For the opening of his top pocket ajar saw head Ra-Ra, shrunk the
substance of the shelter.

- Good you did it yesterday! - Giant said
quietly, as if speaking to himself -.

In Actually you're to blame for everything that happened, in your damn idea to leave me alone
go see .... Popito But why not leave you, like me crazy Flimnap calls
.... What the devil is this love that makes us all make great nonsense,
and even gives a grotesque to that poor woman so innocent and kind!

...

Giant eyes were resting on one side of the table club who had made during his trip to the jungle
of the emperors.

The presence of this primitive weapon you he smiled in a way disturbing to the Pygmies.

- I assure you, Ra-Ra - continued - the first people who come looking for you and annoy us at
risk of being killed.

But although this promise was barbaric, very much in Ra-Ra, it protested, poking his head recklessly
over the edge of the pocket.

- I believe it appropriate - said the pygmy - but in some time. Now it is useless. Must expect our
revolution ever closer.

Meanwhile, Flimnap ran the streets of the capital, learning of a series of news very disturbing
to him. A teacher told him that Momar, for certain details that had reported some subordinates, was
already convinced that Ra-Ra was accompanying the giant. The Father of the Masters, accepting
the suggestions of his vanity, thought that men, the enemy of order, had suggested to the man-mountain
discontinue the idea of ​​gathering at the precise moment that the
great Golbasto recite his verses, to take away and a big win literature.

In the early hours of the morning had had a conversation with Popito violent, which he denied
having seen Ra-Ra in the top of the palace university. Then the influential characters left his
bed, and was now in the presidency of the Executive Board, recommending
without doubt the persecution of the revolutionary mascula.

Flimnap Shortly after he met a group of news from major newspapers, which were seeking from
hours earlier. They wanted to know your opinion on what happened in the party Father of the
Masters, but he said in an ambiguous way. I would fain have answered roughly to those insatiable
curiosity chasing him at all hours, but the gratitude we forced to be polite. All the newspapers
spoke with praise of his speech at the temple black rays, complaining of having unknown for many
years to so eminent a speaker.

Gave reporters a story that was the worst. Gurdilo announced his desire to make a speech in the Senate
to order the man-mountain barely opened the session. Perhaps he was
already talking scary at this hour.

Flimnap ran the government palace, entering in the wing occupied by the Senate. His love for Gillespie
suggested the boldest decisions. The shy professor, who just days before was incapable of the
slightest initiative, now in its audacity astonished.

Thought to speak to Gurdilo, if it had not yet begun his questioning the government. Not known,
but few days before he was a celebrity, which dealt a lot of newspapers, could well afford the
freedom to make a visit to a colleague of glory.

Within the Senate, to ask for the famous orator, he was convinced that he had arrived late.
Gurdilo was already in the chamber and did not allow visits distracting him while preparing mentally
its awful speeches.

The professor went to one of the grandstands for the public, looking
down between midwives forming the Senate, the fearsome Gurdilo, towards
which all eyes converged.

Flimnap poor never suffered torture equal to that of listening to
this person confusion between the public and unable to answer.

After his victory in the temple of lightning black considered as tribune like the famous healer,
but here was nothing more than a mere listener that could be jailed if he dared to alter his
breaks the stillness of the majestic assembly.

She Senate, with the face yellower than ever, the grim look, bent
nose and a hissing voice, attacked Gillespie for a long time, trying
to match their shots colossus rebound should fall on the high lords
of the Executive Council.

He made the history of all man-mountain who had come to the country in the course of centuries.
The first, according to the testimony of ancient writers, ended up being a traitor to the
Empire Liliput given him hospitality, as it was with those of Blefuscu, which were then enemies.
In addition, returning to his monstrous home, posted as news brought vague by Eulame, a book in
which he ridiculed all Lilliputians.

Giants who arrived later were barbaric and vicious people without college education and a stomach
capacity that had caused great shortages and famines in the nation.

Committed such excesses, which finally had to delete.

And when it was accepted as a prudent measure to kill these intruders, which were presented from
time to time, with the regularity of an epidemic, came the last man-mountain, and Executive
Council, taking off from tradition, he gave life.

Here Gurdilo began to speak ironically of the enormous influence that
few teachers lines and manufacturers had over the current government.

-
Was enough - he said - a poor pedant who teaches at the University
on the useless language of the man-mountain, which can serve anything,
has been sufficient, I repeat, they discovered such a giant pocket-sized
book any of us, with some lines crazy, typical of large animals, so
that all false intellectuals dominate our university organization,
and are paid excessively by the government, they saw a chance to assert
their influence to protect this huge intruder as a partner letters.

And the high lords of the government, before taking office had known nothing reading the journal
every morning, have taken the opportunity to be a false importance of intellectual, obeying
the instructions of his proteges who monopolize University.

"I do not want to talk to the illustrious Senate of expenditure from
which the man-mountain from living among us.

This will be a speech utter another day, when you comprehensive statistical data that I gathered.
I need to know for sure how many cattle eat each day, how many dozens of chickens, and tons
of fish and bread has devoured. Do not insist on this, and soon the Senate will appreciate how the
Executive Council squandered the money of the nation, notwithstanding that the government
holds our sex spirit economy as the greatest advantage over all previous governments.

"Today I need to talk about something else that I consider of great urgency, equivalent to
a scandal intolerable that jeopardizes the state order and the foundations of our society, completely
useless by the wisdom of this great woman who invented the lightning
liberators and the heroism of the brave young men who fought on land
and in the air for victory the True Revolution.

"I myself do not see how the illustrious Senate, the Chamber of Deputies and other bodies not
set national attention on the subversive side that offers this giant from reached. I can not explain
how the newspapers that the slightest peek of our wrongs to publish immediately are blind to
the man-mountain .... I must confess, however, I too have lived in
this inexplicable blindness, and only last night I saw the reality,
thanks to the suggestion of an eminent poet, the greatest of all poets
that exist today, and after it almost useless to tell you his name.

All you guessed it Golbasto .... No wonder they call the blind poets. Golbasto has seen what
none of us had managed to see.

There was a deep silence in the assembly.

The same senators that the public the stands, waiting for the revelation of longing great discovery
of the poet, transmitted by the most fearsome of the speakers.

More than a thousand breasts panted oppressed by emotion, the interest to all was breathing
with difficulty. Nobody take his eyes of the Tribune, which appeared Having grown up suddenly. Finally,
after a long dramatic pause, his voice echoing in the majestic silence.

- Pay special attention to the honorable Senate representing antisocial and subversive show that
witnessed yesterday the neighborhood in our city. The man-mountain is a man, as title suggests
.... And yet, wear pants!

A gasp of all listeners greeted this discovery.

- It's true! ... It's true! - Murmured the senators and the public in awe, as if pass before
his eyes a dazzling lightning.

- Imagine the illustrious Senate - continued Gurdilo - what effect it will have produced such disastrous
yesterday in the village, and especially in the studious youth in schools, see a man dress in
a way that seems to defy morality and to the conveniences. For many years our Street has not
seen anything so indecent.

"It is well known that within our society, some young foolish and
misguided intended to disrupt the social order with the ridiculous
utopia that men can replace to women in the conduct of public affairs.

These fools, enemies of the existing must have enjoyed a lot yesterday when she saw a man with
pants and prudent men virtuosos of our families will have been shocked with much reason to
look to one of sex without the robe and without the veils that correspond
to a virtuous matron.

The suit that man-mountain means "men" in action, which challenges all our laws and customs, to
all our glorious past, to all the deeds and sacrifices of our predecessors.

"If allowed to continue this show subversive, if not remedied, the 'party mascula "insignificant and
ridiculous in the present, will grow into a large force, the men
want to wear pants, and we, women are senators warriors, officials,
in short, all who hold public office or contribute to the smooth running
of the state, all who are head of a family, we have to dress skirts.

The assumption that women could wear skirts once was so bizarre and unheard, that all the respectable
Senate began to laugh, and, encouraged by their hilarity, the occupants of the stands also launched
big laughs.

Even some masculine women, modestly wrapped in their veils, occupied the rostrum destined to
the wives of the senators found it very original Gurdilo paradox, celebrating with subtle laughter.

He
continued his speech with arrogance, secure and that the assembly
would support mass their votes.

For the moment, asked for nothing against the Executive Council. Your responsibility would be
subject another speech.

What he sought, as a patriot, was to cease as soon as possible scandal and danger to morality
meant the giant's mode of dress. The pants was found in women, and it was an attack on the
legacy of conquest True Revolution that this intruder, being a man, they insist on dressing
differently to all of your kind.

- I ask the Senate - he ended up
saying - that take away from the man-mountain that does not appropriate
use and forwarded to the Executive Council a bill for the hearing
tomorrow with modesty and decency required by their sex.

The ovation was long the chief. The president had to blow the horn several times its power table
for silence was restored.

- Agree the Senate - said - that the man-mountain is dressed as befits their sex inferior?

Some senators routinely speak to venerate the voting rules, but the most opposed, considering
it was useless when the opinions were unanimous. He raised a hand, all voted by acclamation to
the urgency of removing pants Man-Mountain.

Flimnap left the platform with the aim disoriented, not knowing whether to be sad indeed or rejoice
over what had just heard. The intervention had made him suspect Gurdilo the first time was to ask
the dead Gillespie. But to convince that the senator only wanted to change his clothes, let
alone for anything to lose existence, almost felt gratitude toward him. It mattered little that
he had called Gurdilo pedantic and will allude to other derogatory phrases, without making
the honor to mention his name. The lovers are capable of the greatest sacrifices in exchange
for your loved one not suffer. For him it was interesting to know that the gentleman was not
going to die.

Even thought provide a more graceful dress according to the directions of the Tribune. Always had
caused him discomfort indefinable pants, just like a woman, against all the conveniences provided
by the customs and glorious history.

By late afternoon he went to the home of Mountain Gentleman.

After leaving the Senate had tried unsuccessfully to talk with President of the Executive Board. His personality
glorious seemed to dissolve and sympathetic curiosity was decreasing by the giant. The people went
back to not knowing. Several journalists went by him without asking his opinion. Those who previously
stopped in the street asking questions about the Man-Mountain almost
trampling ground now with their machines.

The businesswoman who had proposed a triumphal tour throughout the Republic to lecture in
the company of giants turned head to the cross with him.

In the waiting rooms of the head of the Council waited two hours in vain. Employees willfully
ignored him. Momar he saw coming out of the office of president.
To cross with the teacher, who greeted him with a deep bow, the Father
of the Masters had only for him a cold stare and a whisper unintelligible.
Finally, Flimnap, convinced that he had passed its period of glory
and influence, left the government palace.

Near the summit of which
was high in the Gallery of Industry, noted an extraordinary movement.
They came from different avenues battalions of women armed with bows
and spears. Appear saw also a government Guard squad and police detachments
numerous male and bearded, who left the surveillance of streets to
go to this concentration warrior.

His heart is oppressed with the
feeling that this whole war machine was on account of committed by
another giant inconvenience. On the top of the hill floated several
flying machines. Others were closer to full force of their engines,
coming from different points of the compass. A recent alarm had no
doubt about the weapons to all troops garrisoned in the capital.

"Philoinus, the Sybarite, alone sent me a thousand drachmm," and accompanied his gift with
a most singular epistle.  May I read it aloud, Rhodopis?"

"Certainly," answered she, "it will show you that the drunkard has repented of his late behaviour."

The Delphian began: "Philoinus to Phryxus: It grieves me that at Rhodopis' house the other
night I did not drink more; for had I done so I should have lost consciousness entirely, and
so have been unable to offend even the smallest insect.  My confounded abstemiousness is therefore
to blame, that I can no longer enjoy a place at the best table in all Egypt.  I am thankful,
however, to Rhodopis for past enjoyment, and in memory of her glorious roastbeef (which has
bred in me the wish to buy her cook at any price) I send twelve large spits for roasting oxen,
--[Rhodopis is said to have sent such a gift to Delphi.  Herod.]--and beg they may be placed
in some treasure-house at Delphi as an offering from Rhodopis.  As for myself, being a rich
man, I sign my name for a thousand drachmae, and beg that my gift may be publicly announced
at the next Pythian games.  To that rude fellow, Aristomachus of Sparta, express my thanks
for the effectual manner in which he fulfilled my intention in coming to Egypt.  I came hither
for the purpose of having a tooth extracted by an Egyptian dentist said to take out teeth without
causing much pain.

     [The Egyptian dentists must have been very skilful.  Artificial
     teeth have been discovered in the jaws of mummies.  See Blumenbach
     on the teeth of the ancient Egyptians, and on mummies.]

Aristomachus, however, knocked out the defective tooth and so saved me from an operation, the
thought of which had often made me tremble.  On recovering consciousness, I found that three
teeth had been knocked into my mouth, the diseased one and two others, which though healthy,
would probably at some future time have caused me pain.  Salute Rhodopis and the handsome Phanes
from me.  You I invite to an entertainment at my house in Sybaris, this day year.  We are accustomed
to issue invitations somewhat early, on account of my necessary preparations.  I have caused
this epistle to be written by my slave Sophotatus in an adjoining chamber, as merely to behold
the labor of writing causes cramp in my fingers."

A burst of laughter arose at these words, but Rhodopis said: "This letter gives me pleasure;
it proves that Philoinus is not bad at heart.  Brought up a Sybarite" .  .  .  She was suddenly
interrupted by the voice of a stranger, who had entered unperceived, and, after apologizing
to the venerable hostess and her guests for appearing without invitation among them, continued
thus: "I am Gyges the son of Croesus; and it has not been merely for pastime, that I have ridden
over from Sais in two hours lest I should arrive too late!"

"Menon, a cushion for our guest!" cried Rhodopis.  "Be welcome to my house and take some repose
after your wild, thoroughly Lydian, ride."

"By the dog, Gyges!" exclaimed Croesus.

     [An oath of Rhadamanthus used in order to avoid mentioning the names
     of the gods.  Schol.  Aristoph.  Aves.  520.]

"What brings thee here at this hour?  I begged thee not to quit Bartja's side .  .  .  But
how thou look'st!  what is the matter? has aught happened? speak, speak!"

In the first moment Gyges could not answer a word.  To see his beloved father, for whose very
life he had been in such anxiety, a safe and happy guest at this rich banquet, seemed to rob
him of his speech a second time.  At last, however, he was able to say: "The gods be praised,
my father, that I see thee safe once more!  Think not I forsook my post thoughtlessly.  Alas!
I am forced to appear as a bird of evil omen in this cheerful assembly.  Know at once, ye guests,
for I dare not lose time in preparing my words, that a treacherous assault awaits ye!"

They all sprang up as if struck by lightning.  Aristomachus silently loosened his sword in
its scabbard; Phanes extended his arms as if to discern whether the old athletic elasticity
still dwelt there.

"What can it be?--what is their design?"  echoed from all sides.

"This house is surrounded by Ethiopian soldiers!"  answered Gyges. "A faithful fellow confided
to me that the crown-prince had designs on one of your number; he was to be taken alive if
possible, but killed if he resisted.  Dreading lest thou shouldst be this victim, my father,
I sped hither.  The fellow had not lied.  This house is surrounded.  My horse shied on reaching
your garden-gate, Rhodopis, jaded as he was.  I dismounted, and could discern behind every
bush the glitter of weapons and the eager eyes of men lying in ambush.  They allowed us, however,
to enter unmolested."

At this moment Knakias rushed in crying, "Important news!  On my way to the Nile to fetch water
with which to prepare the wine-cup, I have just met a man who, in his haste, nearly ran over me.

     [The water of the Nile has a very agreeable flavor.  It is called by
     one traveller the champagne among the waters. Our people were ruled by
emperors, who believed the center of the world and a different divine matter to that of other beings.
The life of the nation focused on the person of the sovereign. The characters jumped higher
on the rope and did other acrobatic exercises to amuse the monarch of the Empire, then called Lilliput.
The great ambition of every Lilliputian was to get a thread color that gave the despot to cross
over the chest By way of decoration. In short, my country was subjected to parental authority but
arbitrary, and the men wore a dull, sleepy existence, irrespective of any progress. Of the
women then do not talk. Were slaves, with a hypocritical servitude masked by the selfish love
of husband and false sweetness of home.

Such was the empire of Lilliput, where a century and a half after the arrival of the first man
Mountain began the series of historical events that ended up changing their appearance.

A castaway giant who had spent some time with us had the opportunity to return to his homeland using
a boat in harmony with its size as the tide crept into our costs.

In undertaking the return journey was not alone.

A Lilliputian also left, some say that according to the giant, others, and are the most, they
assume that he hid in the huge boat with the desire to know the world of man-mountain.

This unique traveler is famous in our history. His name was Eulame. I have a colleagues at the University
to assume that Eulame was a woman, it can not be explained otherwise much intelligence and so
heroically gathered in one person. Have written several books to prove that Eulame pretended
to be a man because in those days dominated only men, and almost fully demonstrated. But I
have never fascinated by this mystery of our history. May well have
been man Enlame as those of his time believed.

A exception does not alter the rule, and acknowledge that the weak male can produce from time
to time some celebrity, without it you out of their inferiority ....

Eulame say left the land of the giants and stayed there a few years. Also this period of its
existence has given rise to many historical and critical studies.

Some say who walked by that big monster world, from fair to fair, being exhibited in circuses
and barracks as a curiosity than ever before, and that his trip helped him to understand the
various towns in which giants are divided.

Other authors argue, based on the testimony of people who tried and were able to Enlame listen
to their confidences, the bold little Lilliputian was known for the generality of giants.
He and the sailor whose boat escaped were picked up by a ship, and,
he reached the land where everything is monstrously huge, sailors
sold him a sage, and he lived in the atmosphere of a lonely scholar,
learning everything fast synthesis illustrate what the giant had searched
in books and in laboratory experiments for many years.

Nor do I decide on this issue or for some or for others. In reality, nothing is known about
the first period Eulame life that was as mysterious as the youth
of many founders religions.

Everything they say my fellow University and also what they said many earlier scholars is based
on hypotheses.

The only certainty is that Eulame returned to Lilliput, but not on a boat just like you brought to
you, Gentleman-Mountain. Across the great barrier of rocks and foam raised by our gods was, according
to the chroniclers of the time, a ship proportions immense, a true
giant ship.

A simple boat saved the wall hindrance of divine bringing to our shores to Eulame and to an
old man-mountain, dry body with a beard white, which I suppose should have been his student protector.

This
was meant to be bringing the boat to our land all inventions their world was coming packed the
huge ship, but our gods, as they love a little to the giant shook
the boundless sea with a mighty storm, and the ship crashed the barrier
of rocks and foam.

Stayed with us so helpless giant old and lacking which means you see now. Moreover, as his years
not allowed to live in a world so new to him and so lacking in the amenities needed by the elderly,
died shortly after. I suspect that the emperors the last dynasty perhaps felt uneasy about
the frequency with which they arrived at our s costs of the same size, and tried the old abruptly,
without considering that the poor had been attracted by the stories
of Eulame to establish their civilization generously between us.

His body gave little work to be annulled. It was a skeleton covered with skin nothing more, and
their bones were used as materials rich in many works of art.

Still retain University several books about him, which helped me a lot for the study of language
you speak and the knowledge of the habits of the man-mountain.

But back to Eulame. Finding himself alone, he launched his countrymen to preach the benefits
of civilization of giants. The discontent of the Empire, who were many, saw him a leader who could
replace the reigning dynasty.

The wise men listened to him as a teacher divine, and all universities were declaring his disciples.
From then dates the introduction of English in this country as secret and sacred language,
which served to understand to upper class people.

The things he did Eulame in no time! Never in our history known activity like yours. The people
could not believe it was a man equal to the others, and we had the son of the gods. To industry
of the country changed radically in a few months. Implemented between us all mechanical progress
he had seen in the world of giants. Our engineers, who until then had gone blind, always moving
in the same circle, after listening to the lessons of Eulame new
roads were open to their eyes, and ran for them, making discoveries
with a dizzying speed, inventing almost instantly what it took perhaps
long years of meditation in the country giants.

The last emperor tried to assassinate the prophet, but he possessed the strength, and thought come
time to move from words to action. He had brought the explosives from the other world and firearms.
The rich industrial supporters secretly manufactured eulamelismo war material equal to the man-mountain,
and it was enough for a thousand disciples with rifles guns and march
on the palace of the emperor so that he would flee, ending at a time
secular dynasty.

The old troops, armed with bows and spears, they broke up, cheering Eulame, receiving the first
hail of bullets from his supporters.

The regenerator was then elevated to the imperial dignity, and began the most hectic period,
more bloody and interesting to our history.

I realize that as men then ran the country's march, had the cynicism
give the name of glorious time to a period in which millions died,
being also burned many cities, which are not yet rebuilt, and torn
provinces whole.

Eulame to be in power, it was felt invested with a superhuman task.

This mission was to bring to all the nearby nations populated by beings
of our species the benefits of civilization planted by him.

Moreover, as a force available higher need to use it, just like the athlete, unable to live
peacefully without bumping into something to exercise your muscles.

Eulame irresistible troops marched against Blefuscu, the people who
for centuries had been our adversary.

It was an easy war by the great disparity between the respective arms, but those of Blefuscu
fought with the tenacity irrational History called heroism, getting killed in huge quantities.

Having
mastered this nation, the conqueror took their weapons to another, and then to another, leaving
no continent or island ceased to recognize his imperial authority. But very greatness of his
success weighed on him, ending up smash.

His generals obeyed to the law of men according to which each pupil, when viewed on high, should attack
his teacher.

It came a day when the warring warlords who ruled conquered lands by delegation Eulame revolted
against. Everything he had learned in the land of the giants confidently announced to his relatives:
new means of destruction domain was already common opponents just as he knew, it was not a demigod,
was a man like others.

And as his enemies were much more numerous, he defeated in a pitched battle at the gates of this
city, then called Mildendo, meeting then in Congress diplomat to decide their future destiny.

They did not dare to kill him because they were his disciples, but as they wanted to be free of its
presence, perpetually confined in a small island in a lonely rock and unhealthy, far from all life,
in the vicinity of the wall of rocks and foam that few dare to go.

The emperor died a few years in exile in a dark.

Families were still living fourteen or fifteen millions of people who had died on account of their
wars and their ambitions. Then, over the years, the masses, you need to live the cult of heroes
they do not have the inventories, glorified Eulame, turning their exploits killings glorious,
giving an almost divine to his memory.

I can teach, gentleman, about fifty thousand books written to glorify Eulame and narrating his exploits.
However, his legacy could not be more fatal.

This manufacturer of war was necessary before disappearing saw our world condemned to war forever.

The
congress met in Mildendo tried a new division of the nations, dividing the former Eulame conquests,
but this arrangement was a hotbed of future fights.

All winners spoke of peace to cry, but everyone tried to live more armed than the others, and
feeling with greater forces required a considerable portion in the cast.

Shorten my story, gentleman, it hurts me to remember this period,
the most shameful of our history.

The people lived governed by men, the weapons were in the hands of men; the work is organized
and regulated men ... What else could happen? ...

The heirs of the Emperor held his pleasure each piece of land that they had to in the cast. Some
nations were established in the Republic, others were monarchies, a few, with the title of
Empires, restored the despotic and paternal terribly of the former sovereign.

Our nation, to recover their original boundaries, thought fit to keep
two provinces of Blefuscu, based on historical rights confused.

During several years of Blefuscu just thought to regain these provinces, as if life will be impossible
without them. The recalled in his patriotic songs, there was no public ceremony that did not
weep; boys, on entering school, the first thing they learned was the need to die one day to the
captive provinces regained their freedom, the men organized their
existence with fixed thought they were soldiers of a future war.

And at last came war, and those of us Blefuscu removed the two provinces.

Then

we imitate them, and for several years the children in our schools learned he had to die to regain
these territories, and there were chants of the country equal to the enemy, and the men were all soldiers,
and came a second war, during which we recover the two provinces ....

And of Blefuscu were prepared to turn to a third war ....

At the same time there were bloody conflicts between other countries
populated by people of our species.

No nation could comply with its current boundaries. The worship of the ancient idolatry gods
had happened a few colored rags called flags. Each, fetishism aggressive, felt that the cloth
of his nation was more beautiful than the others and should wave triumphant over the country
immediately.

The people separated by a stretch of sea, a river, a mountain or a forest, called borders,
is hated in a fierce, without having ever seen.

Each country slandering another, inventing on him the most absurd lies and these lies the following
generations accepted without bothering to verify them. Parent to children with slaughter perpetuated
by the simple reason that the grandparents had stuck.

Inventions were never made such an astonishing speed, but they all
served fatally to enlarge the art of killing.

Science had made the servant of the war, the trembling with patriotic glee laboratories when a discovery
provided security able to kill more men. Factories were stronger materials for war. All countries
competed in a mad race, seeking to anticipate the one another in mass destruction. The men were
killed on the ground and the sea, even at the last moment came to exterminate the silent heights
the atmosphere.

The biggest fortunes of each country possessed weapons manufacturers. The industrial action and the
selfish desire for profit taking a matter of patriotic devotion. If a country invented a huge
cannon, the following year the country produced another opponent twice as large. About waves
was even more crazy this exaggeration of the media offensive.

As Blefuscu and we are separated by the sea, we jump to a rivalry that devours our wealth and our
work.

Eagerly studied its fleet to our fleet proves superior.

If they built a large ship with many guns, us when we started in our yards other vessels more enormous,
reaching unbelievable proportions, which seemed a challenge good sense and of all physical laws.

Suffice
to say, gentleman, we've had warships larger than the boat that brought him to you; ships
with a hundred artillery pieces equal to the revolver that we took from his pocket, or perhaps
much larger, and carrying three thousand or four thousand men crew .... In Finally, real floating
islands.

And the worst thing was that these giant buildings and huge costs
required, everything was useless.

The continuous invention of destructive media gave new life to no larger boats that fish in our
seas, but, like them, could slip through underwater depth, attacking from afar the floating monsters
made of steel. Despite its humble appearance, many times, our naval battles, he scuttled vessels
giant, representing the value of a city.

Every war was more deadly and costly than before. Mothers, giving birth to children knew that did
not make men, but rather soldiers.

Do not pretend to believe, gentleman, that war was something new in
our history and only we had seen after he brought his inventions Eulame
the land of the giants.

We had wars since the earliest times, as I believe that all human groups had. But they were
wars with small armies that do not change the life of the country, wars being waged troops
of volunteers and professional soldiers, a kind of bloody luxury
of deadly elegance, which allowed our old emperors from time to time.

But after of dementia Eulame ambitious and refinement of mass destruction, wars were from town
to town, and all the youth of a country, leaving fields and workshops ran vigorous youth to
kill the other country that had done the same.

Every war meant a long high in human development, and then a setback. In the capital of each
country had a triumphal arch for a parade in your dome Sometimes the army returned victorious
and triumphant other invaders.

After every war, revenge seemed derelict land of forgetfulness and bestiality Men's restricting
production. Large companies were followed by military hunger and
epidemics.

The men showed worse upon returning to their homes during a momentary
peace.

They had forgotten the value of human life. Quarreled with the slightest pretext, are easily angered,
killing each other, beat their wives. In addition, they were all alcoholics. During their campaigns,
the leaders made it easy and plenty of wine hard liquor, knowing that a man into unconsciousness
less afraid of being drunk to death.

Public wealth saved for many years wasted in a few months, becoming
in smoke of gunpowder, in fact steel fragments, debris and plant populations.

When

at last peace came, was to start a new misery ....

The quiet periods
were as dangerous as wartime.

There have always been dissatisfied with the social organization have not always look to them
that hate possess. But after the wars the lack of social harmony was even more violent. Envy
he feels the bottom was more bitter. Since the poor had been soldiers to the force, with new
rights were considered to possess everything.

When the war ceased, the men were reluctant to work and talked about a redistribution of wealth
....

This absurd situation could not last.

I acknowledge, as I said before, there are generous souls of men and
above although less abundant than females. The crimes caused by men
could not fail to move to some of these men's souls, and a ruling
that time gave a sort of regulation for human peace, divided into
fourteen articles.

But among men the best ideas are transformed and
become corrupt. Background is in them selfishness that disfigures
all generous idea just in charge of implementing it.

There was a
country that ceased to praise peace, but this peace should be made
in accordance with tastes and ambitions. Everyone wanted things were
not as they should be, but under at his convenience. And the fourteen
articles or items were twisted and disfigured so that eventually became
almost as many calamities.  Eternity created fire and water.  From these
     Ormusd (Auramazda), the good spirit, took his origin.  He was
     brilliant as the light, pure and good.  After having, in the course
     of 12000 years, created heaven, paradise and the stars, he became
     aware of the existence of an evil spirit, Ahriman (Angramainjus),
     black, unclean, malicious and emitting an evil odor.  Ormusd
     determined on his destruction, and a fierce strife began, in which
     Ormusd was the victor, and the evil spirit lay 3000 years
     unconscious from the effects of terror.  During this interval Ormusd
     created the sky, the waters, the earth, all useful plants, trees and
     herbs, the ox and the first pair of human beings in one year.
     Ahriman, after this, broke loose, and was overcome but not slain.
     As, after death, the four elements of which all things are composed,
     Earth, Air, Fire and Water, become reunited with their primitive
     elements; and as, at the resurrection-day, everything that has been
     severed combines once more, and nothing returns into oblivion, all
     is reunited to its primitive elements, Ahriman could only have been
     slain if his impurity could have been transmuted into purity, his
     darkness into light.  And so evil continued to exist, and to produce
     impurity and evil wherever and whenever the good spirit created the
     pure and good.  This strife must continue until the last day; but
     then Ahriman, too, will become pure and holy; the Diws or Daewa
     (evil spirits) will have absorbed his evil, and themselves have
     ceased to exist.  For the evil spirits which dwell in every human
     being, and are emanations from Ahriman, will be destroyed in the
     punishment inflicted on men after death.  From Vuller's Ulmai Islam
     and the Zend-Avesta.]

"Light alone is pure and good; darkness is unclean and evil.  Yes, maiden, believe me, God
is nearest to us on the mountains; they are his favorite resting-place.  Have you never stood
on the wooded summit of a high mountain, and felt, amid the solemn silence of nature, the still
and soft, but awful breath of Divinity hovering around you?  Have you prostrated yourself in
the green forest, by a pure spring, or beneath the open sky, and listened for the voice of
God speaking from among the leaves and waters? 

Doña Nicanora account that he opened the door of the room sit-saw them next to each other, faces
quite rough, she whispered, he heard with his five senses, such as priests who are in the confessional.
The intelligent neighbor, seeing that the secret was worth the greatest respect, would not go,
and closed the door he stood in the hallway. Well wanted catch it something that the penitent
said, but spoke so softly that not a word reached the eager ears of Madame de Ido.
  But hark, my grandmother
is calling.  I must go."

"Oh, do not leave me yet!"

"Is not obedience one of the Persian virtues?"

"But my rose?"

"Here it is."

"Shall you remember me?"

"Why should I not?"

"Sweet maiden, forgive me if I ask one more favor."

"Yes, but ask it quickly, for my grandmother has just called again."

"Take my diamond star as a remembrance of this hour."

"No, I dare not."

"Oh, do, do take it.  My father gave it me as a reward, the first time that I killed a bear
with my own hand, and it has been my dearest treasure till to-day, but now you shall have it,
for you are dearer to me than anything else in the world."

Saying this, he took the chain and star from his breast, and tried to hang it round Sappho's
neck.  She resisted, but Bartja threw his arms round her, kissed her forehead, called her his
only love, and looking down deep into the eyes of the trembling child, placed it round her
neck by gentle force.

Rhodopis called a third time. 

So could the barber quietly shaved continue Edwin, dropping their dense foam projectiles that
the spread on the ground were disturbed and frightened jump to the horses of the guards. When given
by this operation is completed, engaged cutting the hair of the giant, tough and dangerous
job.

Armed with a curved saber bearing held between the teeth, were climbing the slopes Skull, clinging
to hair bundles as if they were the thickets of a mountain. Then, using only one hand and brandishing
a scimitar with the other, were hitting to left and right in the thick vegetation. This work
enjoyed greater public that earlier, owing to the skill of the climbers and the dangers that face.
Could kill if they lost to such an enormous foot height.

A great character momentarily distracted the attention of the curious. Wide road was opened
in the crowd to give way to the open space to a two-wheeled carruajito, in the shape of a shell,
pulled by three slaves melancholy garment worn by all a cloth around their bellies. These
human beasts were driven by a woman, dry body, with aquiline nose, eyes, compelling and a whip in his right
hand.

Laurel crown that adorned their temples served to recognize that
even those who had recently arrived to the capital.

- It Golbasto,
is the poet - said they all looked at her with admiration.

She went through the crowd smiling protectively like a god, also became
among the officers females, who greeted her like a national treasure
and considered to be placed by range at the head of all vehicles privileged,
or is next to the legs of the giant.

Distinguished people stopped looking at the man-mountain to look at the great poet, and Golbasto
believed this made necessary murmur some words, like directed to herself, to correspond to the
silent homage of his admirers.

His eyes, accustomed to the dizzy heights of the sublime ideal, soared through the profiles
of mass giant rude to arrive at the top where the barbers working females.

- What audacity! What security! - Singer said in a voice that seemed to call for support Lit
-. Only women are able to do a job so risky.

As the barbers were cutting hair vegetation, the stacked bundles, binding them with her hair
down, just as if they were sheaves of wheat. And were so numerous that the harvesters moved with
difficulty, and one of them inadvertently pushed one of the do, by rolling down the sides of the
skull.

He shouted, waving his sword, to warn of the danger, but the heavy sheaf was faster than his
voice, and came to fall on the poet, bending under their burden stifling.

Ran to save officers who had dismounted and many of the privileged onlookers. The glorious believing
woman was fatally wounded screaming and the crowd, in spite of his admiration ended up with
a merry laugh at her irreverence.

To be sitting in his carriage again, free of the avalanche whip, equal to a huge bundle of reeds,
the fright he had suffered became proud wrath.

- Animal rude! - Shouted teaching fist to Gillespie, as if this were the bomber against his divine
person -. Hippo-Mountain! ... Man had to be! ... And to think a great people care about you!
...

Flushed with his own words, gave a strong whip to one of the calves of giant. Then wrapped in
another lash human his three horses, and those who knew the language
of the flogging, they went at a trot, passing the carruajito the crowd.

The

aggressiveness of the poet almost caused a disaster.

The man-mountain, feeling the sting of the lash in a calf, it was
both hands, bowing.

Those working at the top of his skull lost their balance, clinging to the strong time weeds capillaries
to non-fatal collapse from a height. Two strong men who were on a dropped shoulder, headache, and
had been shattered on the ground of not being stopped by a fold of
the huge canvas that covered the chest giant.

The scale supported by a knee lost his balance, toppling their horses
to three bearded and letting riders badly injured. Several of his
comrades dismounted to take them to the nearest hospital.

Barbers
down the giant's head, saying the operation is finished. The cavalry
gave a charge to expand the piece of land free and the man-mountain
could rise, returning to his home without crushing the curious.

Thus
ended barberil work, and the crowd began to retreat from what had
satisfied and propose to witness again as soon as announced by the
newspapers.
All Nebenchari's papers are in our possession, the most important being a letter in thine own
hand promising his father, who assisted at Nitetis' birth, a thousand gold rings, as an inducement
to secrecy even from the priests."

"In whose hands are these papers?"  asked Amasis in a freezing tone.

"In the hands of the priesthood."

"Who speak by thy mouth?"

"Thou hast said it."

"Repeat then thy requests."

"Entreat Cambyses to punish Gyges, and grant me free powers to pursue the escaped Phanes as
it shall seem good in mine eyes."

"Is that all?"

"Bind thyself by a solemn oath to the priests, that the Greeks shall be prevented from erecting
any more temples to their false gods in Egypt, and that the building of the temple to Apollo,
in Memphis, shall be discontinued."

"I expected these demands.  The priests have discovered a sharp weapon to wield against me.
Well, I am prepared to yield to the wishes of my enemies, with whom thou hast leagued thyself,
but only on two conditions. I also believe that the world of Men, Mountains people
give their blood and die completely opposite interests to their own interests. The poor, dressed
in uniform, fighting to preserve their wealth to the rich and the soldiers, when wars end, living
in poverty, while those who remained calm in their homes are divided conquered things, ignorant
women who support men claims are opposed to female. Such are the absurdities of life.

The giant nodded a nod, while Popito continued his story.

The insurrection had to be postponed by a day, until, at last, in the morning before, Ra-Ra,
with a few thousand slaves and bringing as many young officers to the clubs 'men', launched the assault
on the university to seize the arms deposited in the Historical Museum. Felt sure of victory thanks
to production machines a vaporous shell neutralizing the effect of black rays. A slight disruption
occurred at the last moment in the mechanism of these machines had caused the delay of movement insurrection.

But
the government was aware of it, and a battalion of girls defended
Guard University.

Many of these spontaneously rushed to handle the old weapons, invented by men, on the advice
of a professor who thought he had guessed reading use musty books.

Most of the guns did not work.

In other guns broke, killing that drove the Amazons. But the very few who happened could send
shells at the attackers to put them in dispersion. In addition, men who had never heard the
noise of firearms, were the shock itself the lack of custom.

The rest of the guards attacked tenacious crush the insurgents who
refused to flee, and Ra-Ra, with many of his officers, was taken prisoner.

-
Today the judge, gentleman, and is sure to condemn him to death.

Only you can save it. Desoiga not my request.

Gillespie stared intently to a painful Popito. The poor girl moaned, never his watery eyes, as
if it were a divinity that put all their hopes.

Began to feel the wrath of a jealous at seeing Miss Margaret Haynes was concerned both Ra-Ra and
wept over his fate.

- I will be your slave - said the young - but save it.

Let him live, although I lost my freedom forever.

Then he thought that Ra-Ra was a reduction of his person, and this made him more logical to
find Miss Margaret's conduct, or be of Popito. But what could he do, poor giant, for save himself?
... Mused, as the young, still trying to imagining to resist their pleas, the tragically repeated
with a desperate expression.

- I beg, Miss Margaret - Edwin said - that street for a moment and let me think.

By being so addressed, believed his moans Popito really distracted the giant, and remained
silent.

For a mental phenomenon due to the overpowering influence
of his selfishness, Gillespie began to think, against his will, in
the old warrior became a translator.

In angry haste he broke the yellow wax of the seal bearing the king's name, and read: "I have
sent for thy son, that he may not become, like his father, a blind instrument in the hands
of the priesthood, forgetful of what is due to himself and his country.  His education shall
be my care, for the impressions of childhood affect the whole of a man's later life. 

RYE .-- That wait the phantoms. It can not hold ... And who likes to send, as if the lady of the
house. What smoke so tiresome! Yesterday I pulled the ear ... nearly echo blood ... whippersnapper
called me and said, 'You're doing a gentleman, and I'm going to read the book ...». It is
not intrusive to say, and mais ainda, friend Ido. Last night took the two finest pitchers with
porcelain flowers above and below, you know, and took the very ... He said that here there
was no need for anything. Before yesterday charged with a dozen napkins that were not released
and three tablecloths ... In short, this is the port for grabs-layers. I just want to throw
the high when I see such freshness.

IDO .--=( With malice.) = Do not mess with that, friend Aristotle, the master is the master, and well
is what makes this ... and when he sees it and shut up, there must be ... This morning I walked
into the office saying: "Is there here a bit of paper?", and charged with three reams of letterhead
and three hundred envelopes.

There you have the bits you spend that lady ... Silence seems to me that ...

ROSALIA .--=( From the door, in high dudgeon and very overbearing
tone.) = Felipe!

... I'm calling an hour ago ... You are the greatest calamity that
I have seen.

I do not know how you tolerate Augustine, great lazy ... Let's see ... shirts in your love,
where did you squirt job?

XXXIX

When Augustine was approaching, winning steps at high Amparito housing, Ms. Tia down.

"Oh, are you? - Surprised the wife said Ido -. Is better. Yesterday got up. Ago time has eaten
very well ... Mr No need to call. I left the door open, because back then. "

Amparo was in a chair, well wrapped, covering her mouth with his right hand wrapped in a fold
of the shawl. For the windows of the narrow window looking at the sparrows in neighbor's roof
were a thousand antics, and then fly in groups, disappearing into
the blue sky. The day was splendid, and watching that sky did not
understand the phenomenon existed rain. When he felt the door creak
and looked and saw who was coming in, was about to lose sense. Said
not a word that Entrol idiocy of the previous days. Augustine very
polite, smiled, and handed over with emotion, asked him how he was.
She does not know whether said right or wrong, even if he said anything.
Which had been her boyfriend took a chair and sat down at his side.  In the book of
     Genesis, the brethren of Joseph were not allowed to eat bread with
     the Egyptians.]

When Amasis, at last, three days after the release of Gyges, declared that his daughter Nitetis
would be prepared to depart for Asia in the course of two more weeks, all the Persians regretted
that their stay in Egypt was so near its close.

Croesus had enjoyed the society of the Samian poets and sculptors.  Gyges had shared his father's
preference for Greek art and artists.  Darius, who had formerly studied astronomy in Babylon,
was one evening observing the heavens, when, to his surprise, he was addressed by the aged
Neithotep and invited to follow him on to the temple-roof. Wanted to be the most ordered
citizens, and it was all a lie. You wanted to be orthodox; lie too, because you have faith. His
wife wanted to have the same virtue, lie, lie, lie. Leave Now by road width of your instinct,
and the God Commend free and great circumstances. No majesty wary of conventional principles
and kneel before the radiant altar of the facts ... If this is folly, it is. "

Soliloquy ended with another great sigh, Augustine approached the girl and put her hand on the
head in an attitude similar to that of the priests are attracting theater when about a virtuous
character, martyr, neophyte or something similar, the blessings of Heaven. And his attempt did
not stop here, but was told his girlfriend:

"Do you have by chance a little trunk ...?».

- A little trunk! - Repeated Amparo, talking like fools.

- Yes, is that I need.

I've so many things ...

- In this room there is a big one - said Mrs. Tia officiously, to present was.

- Bring you.

Said and done. A moment later, showed in the middle of the room capacity, lined paper green,
a medium-sized Saratoga trunk. Augustine looked at his watch.

"It's
two and a half - said gravely -. For now, Amparo, you put all your
clothes here. "

Incredulous, she looked at who was her boyfriend,
who was finally going to be your ...

"No time to lose. I have to
talk to you, but since I can not delay my journey, you will you please
come with me to Bordeaux. Listen well to what I say. Try to be ready
a quarter to four or four o'clock at the latest. At that time, Philip
will my car or another.  During the interviews
with Sappho, Zopyrus and the attendants used all their endeavors to kill a few snipes, jackals
or jerboas. We were inconsolable. I I will answer
all your letters, because Bringas is busy and can not do it ... And We will not entertain
much there, you come prontito. Do not leave us much time in this sadness ... Fifteen days have
enough rest. "  From the first day on which they
had spoken together she had loved him, and her quick feelings told her at once that something
had happened to estrange him from herself. His eyelids were continuous motion ...

"Do not cry, do not stifle - said ex-boyfriend -. Everything is over between us, but do not keep rancor.
Your little sincerity has hurt me as much as you need, which I know nothing concrete yet because
nobody has given me the evidence I want ... But whatever you want, you yourself have told
me enough so that you can not be my wife. No need to know more, I do not know more ... I do
not deserve. Recognizes that do not deserve me. I was leaving, I'll let you saved from misery
for some time ... because I go away, and is sure that you will not
see me again, and I you either.

"
The strength that showed he was going to miss, so thought it prudent
to retire, so that dignity does not suffer. 

Flimnap had to go back to the capital, walking along the main avenues while waiting forward when the
Senate session. The detachment that had people showing increased, becoming free unpopularity.
Those who pretend not to the previous day I watched him now with a hostile peer. Its decline
was linked to that of the poor man-mountain.

Envious of their former glory to give only approaching alarming news
on the fate of his protege.  She had surprised them
one morning, but the prince had given her such rich presents, and her darling had begged, flattered
and coaxed so sweetly, that at last Melitta promised to keep their secret, and later, yielding
to that natural impulse which moves all old women to favor lovers, had even given them every
assistance in her power. 

He tripped the girl with the fleshy pads of your palm, while an enormous voice who strove to be
sweet to his ears came from above:

Popito-Doctor, can you back when you want: the man-mountain invited.
