Thereupon Thorkill took the fire along to his companions; and finding a kindly wind, landed
on the fourth day at the appointed harbour. With his crew he entered a land where an aspect
of unbroken night checked the vicissitude of light and darkness. He could hardly see before
him, but beheld a rock of enormous size. Wishing to explore it, he told his companions, who
were standing posted at the door, to strike a fire from flints as a timely safeguard against
demons, and kindle it in the entrance. Then he made others bear a light before him, and stooped
his body through the narrow jaws of the cavern, where he beheld a number of iron seats among
a swarm of gliding serpents. Next there met his eye a sluggish mass of water gently flowing
over a sandy bottom. He crossed this, and approached a cavern which sloped somewhat more steeply.
Again, after this, a foul and gloomy room was disclosed to the visitors, wherein they saw Utgarda-Loki,
laden hand and foot with enormous chains. Each of his reeking hairs was as large and stiff
as a spear of cornel. Thorkill (his companions lending a hand), in order that his deeds might
gain more credit, plucked one of these from the chin of Utgarda-Loki, who suffered it. Straightway
such a noisome smell reached the bystanders, that they could not breathe without stopping their
noses with their mantles. They could scarcely make their way out, and were bespattered by the
snakes which darted at them on every side.

Only five of Thorkill's company embarked with their captain: the poison killed the rest. The
demons hung furiously over them, and cast their poisonous slaver from every side upon the men
below them. But the sailors sheltered themselves with their hides, and cast back the venom
that fell upon them. One man by chance at this point wished to peep out; the poison touched
his head, which was taken off his neck as if it had been severed with a sword. Another put
his eyes out of their shelter, and when he brought them back under it they were blinded. Another
thrust forth his hand while unfolding his covering, and, when he withdrew his arm, it was withered
by the virulence of the same slaver. They besought their deities to be kinder to them; vainly,
until Thorkill prayed to the god of the universe, and poured forth unto him libations as well
as prayers; and thus, presently finding the sky even as before and the elements clear, he made
a fair voyage.

And now they seemed to behold another world, and the way towards the life of man. At last Thorkill
landed in Germany, which had then been admitted to Christianity; and among its people he began
to learn how to worship God. His band of men were almost destroyed, because of the dreadful
air they had breathed, and he returned to his country accompanied by two men only, who had
escaped the worst. But the corrupt matter which smeared his face so disguised his person and
original features that not even his friends knew him. But when he wiped off the filth, he made
himself recognizable by those who saw him, and inspired the king with the greatest eagerness
to hear about his quest. But the detraction of his rivals was not yet silenced; and some pretended
that the king would die suddenly if he learnt Thorkill's tidings. The king was the more disposed
to credit this saying, because he was already credulous by reason of a dream which falsely
prophesied the same thing. Men were therefore hired by the king's command to slay Thorkill
in the night. But somehow he got wind of it, left his bed unknown to all, and put a heavy log
in his place. By this he baffled the treacherous device of the king, for the hirelings smote
only the stock.

On the morrow Thorkill went up to the king as he sat at meat, and said: "I forgive thy cruelty
and pardon thy error, in that thou hast decreed punishment, and not thanks, to him who brings
good tidings of his errand. For thy sake I have devoted my life to all these afflictions, and
battered it in all these perils; I hoped that thou wouldst requite my services with much gratitude;
and behold! I have found thee, and thee alone, punish my valour sharpliest. But I forbear all
vengeance, and am satisfied with the shame within thy heart--if, after all, any shame visits
the thankless--as expiation for this wrongdoing towards me. I have a right to surmise that
thou art worse than all demons in fury, and all beasts in cruelty, if, after escaping the snares
of all these monsters, I have failed to be safe from thine."

The king desired to learn everything from Thorkill's own lips; and, thinking it hard to escape
destiny, bade him relate what had happened in due order. He listened eagerly to his recital
of everything, till at last, when his own god was named, he could not endure him to be unfavourably
judged. For he could not bear to hear Utgarda-Loki reproached with filthiness, and so resented
his shameful misfortunes, that his very life could not brook such words, and he yielded it
up in the midst of Thorkill's narrative. Thus, whilst he was so zealous in the worship of a
false god, he came to find where the true prison of sorrows really was. Moreover, the reek
of the hair, which Thorkill plucked from the locks of the giant to testify to the greatness
of his own deeds, was exhaled upon the bystanders, so that many perished of it.

After the death of Gorm, GOTRIK his son came to the throne. He was notable not only for prowess
but for generosity, and none can say whether his courage or his compassion was the greater.
He so chastened his harshness with mercy, that he seemed to counterweigh the one with the other.
At this time Gaut, the King of Norway, was visited by Ber (Biorn?) and Ref, men of Thule. Gaut
treated Ref with attention and friendship, and presented him with a heavy bracelet.

One of the courtiers, when he saw this, praised the greatness of the gift over-zealously, and
declared that no one was equal to King Gaut in kindliness. But Ref, though he owed thanks for
the benefit, could not approve the inflated words of this extravagant praiser, and said that
Gotrik was more generous than Gaut. Wishing to crush the empty boast of the flatterer, he chose
rather to bear witness to the generosity of the absent than tickle with lies the vanity of
his benefactor who was present. For another thing, he thought it somewhat more desirable to
be charged with ingratitude than to support with his assent such idle and boastful praise,
and also to move the king by the solemn truth than to beguile him with lying flatteries. But
Ulf persisted not only in stubbornly repeating his praises of the king, but in bringing them
to the proof; and proposed their gainsayer a wager.

With his consent Ref went to Denmark, and found Gotrik seated in state, and dealing out the
pay to his soldiers. When the king asked him who he was, he said that his name was "Fox-cub"
The answer filled some with mirth and some with marvel, and Gotrik said, "Yea, and it is fitting
that a fox should catch his prey in his mouth." And thereupon he drew a bracelet from his arm,
called the man to him, and put it between his lips. Straightway Ref put it upon his arm, which
he displayed to them all adorned with gold, but the other arm he kept hidden as lacking ornament;
for which shrewdness he received a gift equal to the first from that hand of matchless generosity.
At this he was overjoyed, not so much because the reward was great, as because he had won his
contention. And when the king learnt from him about the wager he had laid, he rejoiced that
he had been lavish to him more by accident than of set purpose, and declared that he got more
pleasure from the giving than the receiver from the gift. So Ref returned to Norway and slew
his opponent, who refused to pay the wager. Then he took the daughter of Gaut captive, and
brought her to Gotrik for his own.

Gotrik, who is also called Godefride, carried his arms against foreigners, and increased his
strength and glory by his successful generalship. Among his memorable deeds were the terms
of tribute he imposed upon the Saxons; namely, that whenever a change of kings occurred among
the Danes, their princes should devote a hundred snow-white horses to the new king on his accession.
But if the Saxons should receive a new chief upon a change in the succession, this chief was
likewise to pay the aforesaid tribute obediently, and bow at the outset of his power to the
sovereign majesty of Denmark; thereby acknowledging the supremacy of our nation, and solemnly
confessing his own subjection. Nor was it enough for Gotrik to subjugate Germany: he appointed
Ref on a mission to try the strength of Sweden. The Swedes feared to slay him with open violence,
but ventured to act like bandits, and killed him, as he slept, with the blow of a stone. For,
hanging a millstone above him, they cut its fastenings, and let it drop upon his neck as he
lay beneath. To expiate this crime it was decreed that each of the ringleaders should pay twelve
golden talents, while each of the common people should pay Gotrik one ounce. Men called this
"the Fox-cub's tribute". (Refsgild).

Meanwhile it befell that Karl, King of the Franks, crushed Germany in war, and forced it not
only to embrace the worship of Christianity, but also to obey his authority. When Gotrik heard
of this, he attacked the nations bordering on the Elbe, and attempted to regain under his sway
as of old the realm of Saxony, which eagerly accepted the yoke of Karl, and preferred the Roman
to the Danish arms. Karl had at this time withdrawn his victorious camp beyond the Rhine, and
therefore forbore to engage the stranger enemy, being prevented by the intervening river. But
when he was intending to cross once more to subdue the power of Gotrik, he was summoned by
Leo the Pope of the Romans to defend the city.

Obeying this command, Karl intrusted his son Pepin with the conduct of the war against Gotrik;
so that while he himself was working against a distant foe, Pepin might manage the conflict
he had undertaken with his neighbour. For Karl was distracted by two anxieties, and had to
furnish sufficient out of a scanty band to meet both of them. Meanwhile Gotrik won a glorious
victory over the Saxons. Then gathering new strength, and mustering a larger body of forces,
he resolved to avenge the wrong he had suffered in losing his sovereignty, not only upon the
Saxons, but upon the whole people of Germany. He began by subduing Friesland with his fleet.

