As he retired to his door he gave utterance to an exclamation which escaped him only on solemn
occasions, and from which he derived his curious surname:

"Patience, patience!" he cried.

This, according to the gossips, was a cabalistic formula of his; and whenever he had been heard
to pronounce it, some misfortune had happened to the individual who had offended him. Sylvain
crossed himself to ward off the evil spirit. The terrible words resounded through the tower
into which Patience had just withdrawn, then the door closed behind him with a bang.

My comrade was so eager to be off that he was within an ace of leaving me there bound to the
tree. As soon as he had released me, he exclaimed:

"A sign of the cross! For God's sake, a sign of the cross! If you don't cross yourself you
are bewitched; we shall be devoured by wolves as we go, or else we shall meet the great monster."

"Idiot!" I said; "I have something else to think about. Listen; if you are ever unlucky enough
to tell a single soul of what has happened, I will strangle you."

"Alas! sir, what am I to do?" he replied with a mixture of innocence and malice. "The sorcerer
said I was to tell my parents."

I raised my fist to strike him, but my strength failed. Choking with rage at the treatment
I had just undergone, I fell down almost in a faint, and Sylvain seized the opportunity for flight.

When I came to I found myself alone. I did not know this part of Varenne; I had never been
here before, and it was horribly wild. All through the day I had seen tracks of wolves and
wild boars in the sand. And now night had come and I was still two leagues from Roche-Mauprat.
The gate would be shut, the drawbridge up; and I should get a bullet through me if I tried
to enter after nine o'clock. As I did not know the way, it was a hundred to one against my
doing the two leagues in an hour. However, I would have preferred to die a thousand deaths
rather than ask shelter of the man in Gazeau Tower, even had he granted it gracefully. My pride
was bleeding more than my flesh.

I started off at a run, heedless of all risks. The path made a thousand turns; a thousand other
paths kept crossing it. When I reached the plain I found myself in a pasture surrounded by
hedges. There every trace of the path disappeared. I jumped the hedge at a venture, and fell
into a field. The night was pitch-dark; even had it been day it would have been impossible
to ascertain my way in the midst of little properties buried between high banks bristling with
thorns. Finally I reached a heath, then some woods; and my fears, which had been somewhat subdued,
now grew intense. Yes, I own I was a prey to mortal terrors. Trained to bravery, as a dog is
to sport, I bore myself well enough before others. Spurred by vanity, indeed, I was foolishly
bold when I had spectators; but left to myself, in the middle of the night, exhausted by toil
and hunger, though with no longing for food, unhinged by the emotions I had just experienced,
certain that my uncles would beat me when I returned, yet as anxious to return as if I were
going to find paradise on earth at Roche-Mauprat, I wandered about until daybreak, suffering
indescribable agonies. The howls of wolves, happily far off, more than once reached my ears
and froze the blood in my veins; and, as if my position had not been perilous enough in reality,
my overwrought imagination must needs add to it a thousand extravagant fantasies. Patience
had the reputation of being a wolf-rearer. This, as you know, is a cabalistic speciality accredited
in all countries. I kept on fancying, therefore, that I saw this devilish little gray-beard,
escorted by his ravening pack, and himself in the form of a demi-wolf, pursing me through the
woods. Several times when rabbits got up at my feet I almost fell backwards from the shock.
And now, as I was certain that nobody could see, I made many a sign of the cross; for, while
affecting incredulity, I was, of course, at heart filled with all the superstitions born of fear.

At last, at daybreak, I reached Roche-Mauprat. I waited in a moat until the gates were opened,
and then slipped up to my room without being seen by anybody. As it was not altogether an unfailing
tenderness that watched over me at Roche-Mauprat, my absence had not been noticed during the
night. Meeting my Uncle John on the stairs, I led him to believe that I had just got up; and,
as the artifice proved successful, I went off to the hayloft and slept for the rest of the day.

V

As I had nothing further to fear for myself, it would have been easy to take vengeance on my
enemy. Everything was favourable. The words he had uttered against my family would have been
sufficient without any mention of the outrage done to my own person, which, in truth, I hardly
cared to make known. I had only to say a word, and in a quarter of an hour seven Mauprats would
have been in the saddle, delighted at the opportunity of making an example of a man who paid
them no dues. Such a man would have seemed to them good for nothing but hanging as a warning
to others.

But even if things had not been likely to reach this pitch, I somehow felt an unconquerable
aversion to asking eight men to avenge me on a single one. Just as I was about to ask them
(for, in my anger, I had firmly resolved to do so), I was held back by some instinct for fair
dealing to which I had hitherto been a stranger, and whose presence in myself I could hardly
explain. Perhaps, too, the words of Patience had, unknown to myself, aroused in me a healthy
sense of shame. Perhaps his righteous maledictions on the nobles had given me glimpses of the
idea of justice. Perhaps, in short, what I had hitherto despised in myself as impulses of weakness
and compassion, henceforth began dimly to take a more solemn and less contemptible shape.

Be that as it may, I kept silent. I contented myself with thrashing Sylvain as a punishment
for having deserted me, and to impress upon him that he was not to breathe a word about my
unfortunate adventure. The bitterness of the recollection was intensified by an incident which
happened toward the end of autumn when I was out with him beating the woods for game. The poor
boy was genuinely attached to me; for, my brutality notwithstanding, he always used to be at
my heels the instant I was outside the castle. When any of his companions spoke ill of me,
he would take up my cause, and declare that I was merely somewhat hasty and not really bad
at heart. Ah, it is the gentle, resigned souls of the humble that keep up the pride and roughness
of the great. Well, we were trying to trap larks when my sabot-shot page, who always hunted
about ahead of me, came back, saying in his rude dialect:

"I can see the wolf-driver with the mole-catcher."

This announcement sent a shudder through all my limbs. However, the longing for revenge produced
a reaction, and I marched straight on to meet the sorcerer. Perhaps, too, I felt somewhat reassured
by the presence of his companion, who was a frequenter of Roche-Mauprat, and would be likely
to show me respect and afford me assistance.

Marcasse, the mole-catcher, as he was called, professed to rid the dwellings and fields of
the district of polecats, weasels, rats and other vermin. Nor did he confine his good offices
to Berry; every year he went the round of La Marche, Nivernais, Limousin, and Saintonge, visiting,
alone and on foot, all the places that had the good sense to appreciate his talents. He was
well received everywhere, in the castle no less than in the cottage; for his was a trade that
had been carried on successfully and honestly in his family for generations (indeed, his descendants
still carry it on). Thus he had work and a home awaiting him for every day in the year. As
regular in his round as the earth in her rotation, he would reappear on a given day at the
very place where he had appeared the year before, and always with the same dog and with the
same long sword.

This personage was as curious as the sorcerer Patience; perhaps more comic in his way than
the sorcerer. He was a bilious, melancholy man, tall, lean, angular, full of languor, dignity,
and deliberation in speech and action. So little did he like talking that he answered all questions
in monosyllables; and yet he never failed to obey the laws of the most scrupulous politeness,
and rarely said a word without raising his hand to the corner of his hat as a sign of respect
and civility. Was he thus by nature, or, in his itinerant trade, had this wise reserve arisen
from a fear of alienating some of his numerous clients by incautious chatter? No one knew.
In all houses he was allowed a free hand; during the day he had the key of every granary; in
the evening, a place at the fireside of every kitchen. He knew everything that happened; for
his dreamy, absorbed air led people to talk freely in his presence; yet he had never been known
to inform any household of the doings of another.

If you wish to know how I had become struck by this strange character, I may tell you that
I had been a witness of my uncle's and grandfather's efforts to make him talk. They hoped to
draw from him some information about the chateau of Saint-Severe, the home of a man they hated
and envied, M. Hubert de Mauprat. Although Don Marcasse (they called him Don because he seemed
to have the bearing and pride of a ruined hidalgo), although Don Marcasse, I say, had shown
himself as incompressible here as elsewhere, the Coupe-Jarret Mauprats never failed to squeeze
him a little more in the hope of extracting some details about the Casse-Tete Mauprats.

Nobody, then, could discover Marcasse's opinions about anything; it would have been simplest
to suppose that he did not take the trouble to have any. Yet the attraction which Patience
seemed to feel towards him--so great that he would accompany him on his travels for several
weeks altogether--led one to believe that there was some witchery in the man's mysterious air,
and that it was not solely the length of his sword and the skill of his dog which played such
wonderful havoc with the moles and weasels. There were whispered rumours of the enchanted herbs
that he employed to lure these suspicious animals from their holes into his nets. However,
as people found themselves better off for his magic, no one dreamt of denouncing it as criminal.

I do not know if you have ever seen one of the rat-hunts. It is a curious sight, especially
in a fodder-loft. The man and dog climbing up ladders and running along beams with marvellous
assurance and agility, the dog sniffing every hole in the wall, playing the cat, crouching
down and lying in wait until the game comes out for his master's rapier; the man thrusting
through bundles of straw and putting the enemy to the sword--all this, when arranged and carried
out with gravity and dignity by Don Marcasse, was, I assure you, a most singular and interesting
performance.

When I saw this trusty fellow I felt equal to braving the sorcerer, and advanced boldly. Sylvain
stared at me in admiration, and I noticed that Patience himself was not prepared for such audacity.
I pretended to go up to Marcasse and speak to him, as though quite unconcerned about the presence
of my enemy. Seeing this he gently thrust aside the mole-catcher, and, laying his heavy hand
on my head, said very quietly:

"You have grown of late, my fine gentleman!"

The blood rushed to my face, and, drawing back scornfully, I answered:

"Take care what you are doing, clodhopper; you should remember that if you still have your
two ears, it is to my kindness that you owe them."

"My two ears!" said Patience, with a bitter laugh.

Then making an allusion to the nickname of my family, he added:

"Perhaps you mean my two hamstrings? Patience, patience! The time, maybe, is not far distant
when clodhoppers will rid the nobles of neither ears nor hamstrings, but of their heads and
their purses."

"Silence, Master Patience!" said the mole-catcher solemnly; "these are not the words of a philosopher."

"You are quite right, quite right," replied the sorcerer; "and in truth, I don't know why I
allow myself to argue with this lad. He might have had me made into pap by his uncles. I whipped
him in the summer for playing me a stupid trick; and I don't know what happened to the family,
but the Mauprats lost a fine chance of injuring a neighbour."

"Learn, peasant," I said, "that a nobleman always takes vengeance nobly. I did not want my
wrongs avenged by people more powerful than yourself; but wait a couple of years; I promise
I will hang you with my own hand on a certain tree that I shall easily recognise, not very
far from the door of Gazeau Tower. If I don't I will renounce my birthright; if I spare you
I will take the title of wolf-driver."

Patience smiled; then, suddenly becoming serious, he fixed on me that searching look which
rendered his physiognomy so striking. Then turning to the weasel-hunter:

"It is strange," he said; "there must be something in blood. Take the vilest noble, and you
will find that in certain things he has more spirit than the bravest of us. Ah! it is simple
enough," he added, speaking to himself; "they are brought up like that, whilst we--we, they
tell us, are born to obey. Patience!"

He was silent for an instant; then, rousing himself from his reverie, he said to me in a kindly
though somewhat mocking tone:

"And so you want to hang me, Monseigneur Straw-Stalk? You will have to eat a lot of beef, then,
for you are not yet tall enough to reach the branch which is to bear me; and before then .
. . perhaps many things will happen that are not dreamt of in your little philosophy."

"Nonsense! Why talk nonsense?" said the mole-catcher, with a serious air; "come, make peace.
Monseigneur Bernard, I ask pardon for Patience; he is an old man, a fool."

"No, no," said Patience; "I want him to hang me; he is right; this is merely my due; and, in
fact, it may come more quickly than all the rest. You must not make too much haste to grow,
monsieur; for I--well, I am making more haste to grow old than I would wish; and you who are
so brave, you would not attack a man no longer able to defend himself."

"You didn't hesitate to use your strength against me!" I cried. "Confess, now; didn't you treat
me brutally? Wasn't it a coward's work, that?"

"Oh, children, children!" he said. "See how the thing reasons! Out of the mouths of children
cometh truth."

And he moved away dreamily, and muttering to himself as was his wont. Marcasse took off his
hat to me and said in an impassive tone:

"He is wrong . . . live at peace . . . pardon . . . peace . . . farewell!"

They disappeared; and there ended my relations with Patience. I did not come in contact with
him again until long afterward.

VI

I was fifteen when my grandfather died. At Roche-Mauprat his death caused no sorrow, but infinite
consternation. He was the soul of every vice that reigned therein, and it is certain that he
was more cruel, though less vile, than his sons. On his death the sort of glory which his audacity
had won for us grew dim. His sons, hitherto held under firm control, became more and more drunken
and debauched. Moreover, each day added some new peril to their expeditions.

Except for the few trusty vassals whom we treated well, and who were all devoted to us, we
were becoming more and more isolated and resourceless. People had left the neighbouring country
in consequence of our violent depredations. The terror that we inspired pushed back daily the
bounds of the desert around us. In making our ventures we had to go farther afield, even to
the borders of the plain. There we had not the upper hand; and my Uncle Laurence, the boldest
of us all, was dangerously wounded in a skirmish. Other schemes had to be devised. John suggested
them. One was that we should slip into the fairs under various disguises, and exercise our
skill in thieving. From brigands we became pick-pockets, and our detested name sank lower and
lower in infamy. We formed a fellowship with the most noisome characters our province concealed,
and, by an exchange of rascally services, once again managed to avoid destitution.

I say we, for I was beginning to take a place in this band of cutthroats when my grandfather
died. He had yielded to my entreaties and allowed me to join in some of the last expeditions
he attempted. I shall make no apologies; but here, gentlemen, you behold a man who has followed
the profession of a bandit. I feel no remorse at the recollection, no more than a soldier would
feel at having served a campaign under orders from his general. I thought that I was still
living in the middle ages. The laws of the land, with all their strength and wisdom, were to
me words devoid of meaning. I felt brave and full of vigour; fighting was a joy. Truly, the
results of our victories often made me blush; but, as they in no way profited myself, I washed
my hands of them. Nay, I remember with pleasure that I helped more than one victim who had
been knocked down to get up and escape.

This existence, with its movement, its dangers, and its fatigues, had a numbing effect on me.
It took me away from any painful reflections which might have arisen in my mind. Besides, it
freed me from the immediate tyranny of John. However, after the death of my grandfather, when
our band degraded itself to exploits of a different nature, I fell back under his odious sway.
I was by no means fitted for lying and fraud. I displayed not only aversion but also incapacity
for this new industry. Consequently my uncle looked upon me as useless, and began to maltreat
me again. They would have driven me away had they not been afraid that I might make my peace
with society, and become a dangerous enemy to themselves. While they were in doubt as to whether
it was wiser to feed me or to live in fear of me, they often thought (as I have since learned)
of picking a quarrel with me, and forcing a fight in which I might be got rid of. This was
John's suggestion. Antony, however, who retained more of Tristan's energy and love of fair
play at home than any of his brothers, proved clearly that I did more good than harm. I was,
he declared, a brave fighter, and there was no knowing when they might need an extra hand.
I might also be shaped into a swindler. I was very young and very ignorant; but John, perhaps,
would endeavour to win me over by kindness, and make my lot less wretched. Above all, he might
enlighten me as to my true position, by explaining that I was an outcast from society, and
could not return to it without being hanged immediately. Then, perhaps, my obstinacy and pride
would give way, out of regard to my own well-being on the one hand, and from necessity on the
other. At all events, they should try this before getting rid of me.

"For," said Antony to round off his homily, "we were ten Mauprats last year; our father is
dead, and, if we kill Bernard, we shall only be eight."

This argument gained the day. They brought me forth from the species of dungeon in which I
had languished for several months; they gave me new clothes; they exchanged my old gun for
a beautiful carbine that I had always coveted; they explained to me my position in the world;
they honoured me with the best wine at meals. I promised to reflect, and meanwhile, became
rather more brutalized by inaction and drunkenness than I had been by brigandage.

However, my captivity had made such a terrible impression on me that I took a secret oath to
dare any dangers that might assail me on the territories of the King of France, rather than
endure a repetition of that hideous experience. Nothing but a miserable point of honour now
kept me at Roche-Mauprat. It was evident that a storm was gathering over our heads. The peasants
were discontented, in spite of all our efforts to attach them to us; doctrines of independence
were secretly insinuating themselves into their midst; our most faithful retainers were growing
tired of merely having their fill of bread and meat; they were demanding money, and we had
none. We had received more than one serious summons to pay our fiscal dues to the state, and
as our private creditors had joined hands with the crown officers and the recalcitrant peasants,
everything was threatening us with a catastrophe like that which had just overtaken the Seigneur
de Pleumartin in our province.(*)

     (*) The reputation which the Seigneur de Pleumartin has left
     behind him in the province will preserve the story of
     Mauprat from the reproach of exaggeration. Pen would refuse
     to trace the savage obscenities and refinements of cruelty
     which marked the life of this madman, and which perpetuated
     the traditions of feudal brigandage in Berry down to the
     last days of the ancient monarchy. His chateau was besieged,
     and after a stubborn resistance he was taken and hanged.
     There are many people still living, nor yet very advanced in
     years, who knew the man.

My uncles had long thought of making common cause with this country squire in his marauding
expeditions and his resistance to authority. However, just as Pleumartin, about to fall into
the hands of his enemies, had given his word of honour that he would welcome us as friends
and allies if we went to his assistance, we had heard of his defeat and tragic end. Thus we
ourselves were now on our guard night and day. It was a question of either fleeing the country
or bracing ourselves for a decisive struggle. Some counselled the former alternative; the others
declared their resolve to follow the advice of their dying father and to find a grave under
the ruins of the keep. Any suggestion of flight or compromise they denounced as contemptible
cowardice. The fear, then, of incurring such a reproach, and perhaps in some measure an instinctive
love of danger, still kept me back. However, my aversion to this odious existence was only
lying dormant, ready to break out violently at any moment.

One evening, after a heavy supper, we remained at table, drinking and conversing--God knows
in what words and on what subject! It was frightful weather. The rain, driven through the broken
windows, was running in streams across the stone floor of the hall; and the old walls were
trembling in the storm. The night wind was whistling through chinks in the roof and making
the flames of our resin torches flicker weirdly. During the meal my uncles had rallied me very
much on what they called my virtue; they had treated my shyness in the presence of women as
a sign of continence; and it was especially in this matter that they urged me to evil by ridiculing
my modesty. While parrying these coarse gibes and making thrusts in the same strain, I had
been drinking enormously. Consequently, my wild imagination had become inflamed, and I boasted
that I would be bolder and more successful with the first woman brought to Roche-Mauprat than
any of my uncles. The challenge was accepted amid roars of laughter. Peals of thunder sent
back an answer to the infernal merriment.

All at once the horn was heard at the portcullis. Everybody stopped talking. The blast just
blown was the signal used by the Mauprats to summon each other or make themselves known. It
was my Uncle Laurence, who had been absent all day and who was now asking to be let in. We
had so little confidence in others that we acted as our own turnkeys in the fortress. John
rose and took down the keys, but he stopped immediately on hearing a second blast of the horn.
This meant that Laurence was bringing in a prize, and that we were to go and meet him. In the
twinkling of an eye all the Mauprats were at the portcullis, torch in hand--except myself,
whose indifference at this moment was profound, and whose legs were seriously conscious of wine.

"If it is a woman," cried Antony as he went out, "I swear by the soul of my father that she
shall be handed over to you, my valiant young man, and we'll see if your courage comes up to
your conceit."

I remained with my elbows on the table, sunk in an uncomfortable stupor.

When the door opened again I saw a woman in a strange costume entering with a confident step.
It required an effort to keep my mind from wandering, and to grasp what one of the Mauprats
came and whispered to me. In the middle of a wolf-hunt, at which several of the nobles in the
neighbourhood had been present with their wives, this young lady's horse had taken fright and
bolted away from the rest of the field. When it had pulled up after a gallop of about a league,
she had tried to find her way back; but, not knowing the Varenne district, where all the landmarks
are so much alike, she had gone farther and farther astray. The storm and the advent of night
had completed her perplexity. Laurence, happening to meet her, had offered to escort her to
the chateau of Rochemaure, which, as a fact, was more than six leagues distant; but he had
declared that it was quite near, and had pretended to be the gamekeeper there. She did not
actually know the lady of Rochemaure, but being a distant connection of hers, she counted upon
a welcome. Never having seen the face of a single Mauprat, and little dreaming that she was
so near their haunt, she had followed her guide confidingly; and as she had never in her life
caught a glimpse of Roche-Mauprat, whether in the distance or close at hand, she was led upon
the scene of our orgies without having the least suspicion of the trap into which she had fallen.

When I rubbed my heavy eyes and beheld this woman, so young and so beautiful, with her expression
of calm sincerity and of goodness, the like of which I had never seen on the brow of any other
(for all those who had passed the portcullis of our abode were either insolent prostitutes
or stupid victims), I could not but think I was dreaming.

Remembering how prominently fairies figured in my legends of chivalry, I almost fancied that
Morgana or Urganda had come among us to administer justice; and, for the moment, I felt an
inclination to throw myself on my knees and protest against any judgment which should confound
me with my uncles. Antony, to whom Laurence had quickly given the cue, approached her with
as much politeness as he had in his composition, and begged her to excuse his hunting costume,
likewise that of his friends. They were all nephews or cousins of the lady of Rochemaure, whom
they were now awaiting before sitting down to table. Being very religious, she was at present
in the chapel, in pious conference with the chaplain. The air of simple confidence with which
the stranger listened to these absurd lies went to my heart, but I had not a very clear idea
of what I felt.

"Please," she said to my Uncle John, who was dancing attendance on her with the leer of a satyr,
"please do not let me disturb this lady. I am so troubled about the anxiety I must be causing
my father and my friends at the present moment, that I could not really stop here. All I ask
is that she will be kind enough to lend me a fresh horse and a guide, so that I may return
to the place where I presume my people may have gone to wait for me."

"Madame," replied John, with assurance, "it is impossible for you to start again in such weather
as this; besides, if you did, that would only serve to delay the hour of rejoining those who
are looking for you. Ten of our men, well mounted and provided with torches, shall set out
this very moment in ten different directions and scour every corner of Varenne. Thus, in two
hours at the most, your relatives will be certain to have news of you, and you will soon see
them arriving here, where we will entertain them as best we can. Please, then, set your mind
at rest, and take some cordial to restore you; for you must be wet through and quite exhausted."

"Were it not for the anxiety I feel," she answered with a smile, "I should be famished. I will
try to eat something; but do not put yourselves to any inconvenience on my account. You have
been far too good already."

Approaching the table, where I was still resting on my elbows, she took some fruit that was
by my side without noticing me. I turned and stared at her insolently with a besotted expression.
She returned my gaze haughtily--at least, so it appeared to me then. I have since learned that
she did not even see me; for, while making a great effort to appear calm and to reply with
an air of confidence to the offers of hospitality, she was at heart very much disturbed by
the unexpected presence of so many strange men with their forbidding mien and rough garb. However,
she did not suspect anything. I overheard one of the Mauprats near me saying to John:

"Good! It's all right; she is falling into the trap. Let us make her drink; then she will begin
to talk."

"One moment," replied John; "watch her carefully; this is a serious matter; there is something
better to be had out of this than a little passing pleasure. I am going to talk it over with
the others; you will be sent for to give your opinion. Meanwhile keep an eye on Bernard."

"What is the matter?" I said abruptly, as I faced him. "Does not this girl belong to me? Did
not Antony swear it by the soul of my grandfather?"

"Yes, confound it, that's true," said Antony, approaching our group, whilst the other Mauprats
surrounded the lady. "Listen, Bernard; I will keep my word on one condition."

"What is that?"

"It is quite simple: that you won't within the next ten minutes tell this wench that she is
not at old Rochemaure's."

"What do you take me for?" I answered, pulling my hat over my eyes. "Do you think that I am
an idiot? Wait a minute; would you like me to go and get my grandmother's dress which is upstairs
and pass myself off for this same lady of Rochemaure?"

"A splendid idea!" replied Laurence.

"But before anything is done," said John, "I want to speak to you all."

And making signs to the others, he drew them out of the hall. Just as they were going out I
thought I noticed that John was trying to persuade Antony to keep watch over me. But Antony,
with a firmness which I could not understand, insisted on following the rest. I was left alone
with the stranger.

For a moment I remained bewildered, almost stupefied, and more embarrassed than pleased at
the tete-a-tete. Then I endeavoured to think of some explanation of these mysterious things
that were happening around me, and succeeded, as far as the fumes of the wine would allow me,
in imagining something fairly probable, though, indeed, remote enough from the actual truth.

I thought I could account for everything I had just seen and heard by supposing, first, that
the lady, quiet and richly dressed though she was, was one of those daughters of Bohemia that
I had sometimes seen at fairs; secondly, that Laurence, having met her in the country, had
brought her here to amuse the company; and, thirdly, that they had told her of my condition
of swaggering drunkenness, and had prevailed on her to put my gallantry to the proof, whilst
they were to watch me through the keyhole. My first movement, as soon as these ideas had taken
possession of me, was to rise and go straight to the door. This I locked with a double turn
and then bolted. When I had done this I returned to the lady, determined that I would not,
at all events, give her cause to laugh at my bashfulness.

She was sitting close to the fire, and as she was occupied in drying her wet garments, leaning
forward over the hearth, she had not taken any notice of what I was doing; but when I approached
her the strange expression on my face caused her to start. I had made up my mind to kiss her,
as a beginning; but, I know not by what miracle, as soon as she raised her eyes to mine, this
familiarity became impossible. I only had sufficient courage to say:

"Upon my word, mademoiselle, you are a charming creature, and I love you--as true as my name
is Bernard Mauprat."

"Bernard Mauprat!" she cried, springing up; "you are Bernard Mauprat, you? In that case, change
your manner and learn to whom you are talking. Have they not told you?"

"No one has told me, but I can guess," I replied with a grin, while trying hard to trample
down the feeling of respect with which her sudden pallor and imperious attitude inspired me.

"If you can guess," she said, "how is it possible that you allow yourself to speak to me in
this way? But they were right when they said you were ill-mannered; and yet I always had a
wish to meet you."

"Really!" I said, with the same hideous grin. "You! A princess of the king's highway, who have
known so many men in your life? But let my lips meet your own, my sweet, and you shall see
if I am not as nicely mannered as those uncles of mine whom you were listening to so willingly
just now."

"Your uncles!" she cried, suddenly seizing her chair and placing it between us as if from some
instinct of self-defence. "Oh, mon Dieu! mon Dieu! Then I am not at Madame de Rochemaure's?"

"Our name certainly begins in the same way, and we come of as good a rock as anybody."

"Roche-Mauprat!" she muttered, trembling from head to foot, like a hind when it hears the howl
of wolves.

And her lips grew quite white. Her agony was manifest in every gesture. From an involuntary
feeling of sympathy I shuddered myself, and I was on the point of changing my manner and language
forthwith.

"What can there be in this to astound her so?" I asked myself. "Is she not merely acting a
part? And even if the Mauprats are not hidden behind some wainscot listening to us, is she
not sure to give them an account of everything that takes place? And yet she is trembling like
an aspen leaf. But what if she is acting? I once saw an actress play Genevieve de Brabant,
and she wept so that one might have been deceived."

I was in a state of great perplexity, and I cast harassed glances now at her, now at the doors,
which I fancied every moment would be thrown wide open amid roars of laughter from my uncles.

This woman was beautiful as the day. I do not believe there has ever lived a woman as lovely
as she. It is not I alone who say so; she has left a reputation for beauty which has not yet
died out in her province. She was rather tall, slender, and remarkable for the easy grace of
her movements. Her complexion was very fair, while her eyes were dark and her hair like ebony.
Her glance and her smile showed a union of goodness and acuteness which it was almost impossible
to conceive; it was as if Heaven had given her two souls, one wholly of intellect, the other
wholly of feeling. She was naturally cheerful and brave--an angel, indeed, whom the sorrows
of humanity had not yet dared to touch. She knew not what it was to suffer; she knew not what
it was to distrust and dread. This, indeed, was the first trial of her life, and it was I,
brute that I was, who made her undergo it. I took her for a gipsy, and she was an angel of purity.

She was my young cousin (or aunt, after the Breton fashion), Edmee de Mauprat, the daughter
of M. Hubert, my great-uncle (again in the Breton fashion), known as the Chevalier--he who
had sought release from the Order of Malta that he might marry, though already somewhat advanced
in years. My cousin was the same age as myself; at least, there was a difference of only a
few months between us. Both of us were now seventeen, and this was our first interview. She
whom I ought to have protected at the peril of my life against the world was now standing before
me trembling and terror-stricken, like a victim before the executioner.

She made a great effort, and approaching me as I walked about the hall deep in thought, she
explained who she was, adding:

"It is impossible that you can be an infamous creature like all these brigands whom I have
just seen, and of whose hideous life I have often heard. You are young; your mother was good
and wise. My father wanted to adopt you and bring you up as his son. Even to-day he is still
full of grief at not being able to draw you out of the abyss in which you lie. Have you not
often received messages from him? Bernard, you and I are of the same family; think of the ties
of blood; why would you insult me? Do they intend to assassinate me here or torture me? Why
did they deceive me by saying that I was at Rochemaure? Why did they withdraw in this mysterious
way? What are they preparing? What is going to happen?"

Her words were cut short by the report of a gun outside. A shot from the culverin replied to
it, and the alarm trumpet shook the gloomy walls of the keep with its dismal note. Mademoiselle
de Mauprat fell back into her chair. I remained where I was, wondering whether this was some
new scene in the comedy they were enjoying at my expense. However, I resolved not to let the
alarm cause me any uneasiness until I had certain proof that it was not a trick.

"Come, now," I said, going up to her again, "own that all this is a joke. You are not Mademoiselle
de Mauprat at all; and you merely want to discover if I am an apprentice capable of making love."

"I swear by Christ," she answered, taking my hands in her own, which were cold as death, "that
I am Edmee, your cousin, your prisoner--yes, and your friend; for I have always felt an interest
in you; I have always implored my father not to cease his efforts for you. But listen, Bernard;
they are fighting, and fighting with guns! It must be my father who has come to look for me,
and they are going to kill him. Ah!" she cried, falling on her knees before me, "go and prevent
that, Bernard! Tell your uncles to respect my father, the best of men, if you but knew! Tell
them that, if they hate our family, if they must have blood, they may kill me! Let them tear
my heart out; but let them respect my father . . ."

Some one outside called me in a violent voice.

"Where is the coward? Where is that wretched boy?" shouted my Uncle Laurence.

Then he shook the door; but I had fastened it so securely that it resisted all his furious blows.

"That miserable cur is amusing himself by making love while our throats are being cut! Bernard,
the mounted police are attacking us! Your Uncle Louis had just been killed! Come and help us!
For God's sake, come, Bernard!"

"May the devil take the lot of you," I cried, "and may you be killed yourself, if I believe
a single word of all this. I am not such a fool as you imagine; the only cowards here are those
who lie. Didn't I swear that the woman should be mine? I'm not going to give her up until I
choose."

"To hell with you!" replied Laurence; "you are pretending . . ."

The shots rang out faster. Frightful cries were heard. Laurence left the door and ran in the
direction of the noise. His eagerness proved him so much in earnest that I could no longer
refuse to believe him. The thought that they would accuse me of cowardice overcame me. I advanced
towards the door.

"O Bernard! O Monsieur de Mauprat!" cried Edmee, staggering after me; "let me go with you.
I will throw myself at your uncles' feet; I will make them stop the fight; I will give them
all I possess, my life, if they wish . . . if only they will spare my father."

"Wait a moment," I said, turning towards her; "I am by no means certain that this is not a
joke at my expense. I have a suspicion that my uncles are there, behind that door, and that,
while our whippers-in are firing off guns in the courtyard, they are waiting with a blanket
to toss me. Now, either you are my cousin, or you are a . . . You must make me a solemn promise,
and I will make you one in return. If you are one of these wandering charmers and I quit this
room the dupe of your pretty acting, you must swear to be my mistress, and to allow none other
near you until I have had my rights; otherwise, for my part, I swear that you shall be chastised,
even as my spotted dog Flora was chastised this morning. If, on the other hand, you are Edmee,
and I swear to intervene between your father and those who would kill him, what promise will
you make me, what will you swear?"

"If you save my father," she cried, "I swear to you that I will marry you, I swear it."

"Ho! ho! indeed!" I said, emboldened by her enthusiasm, the sublimity of which I did not understand.
"Give me a pledge, then, so that in any case I do not go out from here like a fool."

I took her in my arms and kissed her. She did not attempt to resist. Her cheeks were like ice.
Mechanically she began to follow me as I moved to the door. I was obliged to push her back.
I did so without roughness; but she fell as one in a faint. I began to grasp the gravity of
my position; for there was nobody in the corridor and the tumult outside was becoming more
and more alarming. I was about to run and get my weapons, when a last feeling of distrust,
or it may have been another sentiment, prompted me to go back and double-lock the door of the
hall where I was leaving Edmee. I put the key into my belt and hastened to the ramparts, armed
with a gun, which I loaded as I ran.

It was simply an attack made by the mounted police, and had nothing whatever to do with Mademoiselle
de Mauprat. A little while before our creditors had obtained a writ of arrest against us. The
law officers, beaten and otherwise severely handled, had demanded of the King's advocate at
the provincial court of Bourges another warrant of arrest. This the armed police were now doing
their best to execute. They had hoped to effect an easy capture by means of a night surprise.
But we were in a better state of defence than they had anticipated. Our men were brave and
well armed; and then we were fighting for our very existence; we had the courage of despair,
and this was an immense advantage. Our band amounted to twenty-four all told; theirs to more
than fifty soldiers, in addition to a score or more of peasants, who were slinging stones from
the flanks. These, however, did more harm to their allies than they did to us.

For half an hour the fighting was most desperate. At the end of this time the enemy had become
so dismayed by our resistance that they fell back, and hostilities were suspended. However,
they soon returned to the attack, and again were repulsed with loss. Hostilities were once
more suspended. They then, for the third time, called upon us to surrender, promising that
our lives should be spared. Antony Mauprat replied with an obscene jest. They remained undecided,
but did not withdraw.

I had fought bravely; I had done what I called my duty. There was a long lull. It was impossible
to judge the distance of the enemy, and we dared not fire at random into the darkness, for
our ammunition was too precious. All my uncles remained riveted on the ramparts, in case of
fresh attack. My Uncle Louis was dangerously wounded. Thoughts of my prisoner returned to my
mind. At the beginning of the fight I had heard John Mauprat saying, that if our defeat seemed
imminent, we must offer to hand her over to the enemy, on condition that they should raise
the seige; that if they refused, we must hang her before their eyes. I had no longer any doubts
about the truth of what she had told me. When victory appeared to declare for us they forgot
the captive. But I noticed the crafty John quitting the culverin which he so loved to fire,
and creeping away like a cat into the darkness. A feeling of ungovernable jealousy seized me.
I threw down my gun and dashed after him, knife in hand, resolved, I believe, to stab him if
he attempted to touch what I considered my booty. I saw him approach the door, try to open
it, peer attentively through the keyhole, to assure himself that his prey had not escaped him.
Suddenly shots were heard again. He sprang to his maimed feet with that marvellous agility
of his, and limped off to the ramparts. For myself, hidden as I was by the darkness, I let
him pass and did not follow. A passion other than the love of slaughter had just taken possession
of me. A flash of jealousy had fired my senses. The smell of powder, the sight of blood, the
noise, the danger, and the many bumpers of brandy we had passed round to keep up our strength
had strangely heated my brain. I took the key from my belt and opened the door noisily. And
now, as I stood before my captive again, I was no longer the suspicious and clumsy novice she
had so easily moved to pity: I was the wild outlaw of Roche-Mauprat, a hundred times more dangerous
than at first. She rushed towards me eagerly. I opened my arms to catch her; instead of being
frightened she threw herself into them, exclaiming:

"Well! and my father?"

"Your father," I said, kissing her, "is not there. At the present moment there is no question
either of him or of you. We have brought down a dozen gendarmes, that is all. Victory, as usual,
is declaring for us. So, don't trouble yourself any more about your father; and I, I won't
trouble myself further about the King's men. Let us live in peace and rejoice in love."

With these words I raised to my lips a goblet of wine which had been left on the table. But
she took it out of my hands with an air of authority that made me all the bolder.

"Don't drink any more," she said; "think seriously of what you are saying. Is what you tell
me true? Will you answer for it on your honour, on the soul of your mother?"

"Every word is true; I swear it by your pretty rosy lips," I replied, trying to kiss her again.

But she drew back in terror.

"Oh, mon Dieu!" she exclaimed, "he is drunk! Bernard! Bernard! remember what you promised;
do not break your word. You have not forgotten, have you, that I am your kinswoman, your sister?"

"You are my mistress or my wife," I answered, still pursuing her.

"You are a contemptible creature!" she rejoined, repulsing me with her riding whip. "What have
you done that I should be aught to you? Have you helped my father?"

"I swore to help him; and I would have helped him if he had been there; it is just the same,
therefore, as if I really had. But, had he been there, and had I tried to save him and failed,
do you know that for this treachery Roche-Mauprat could not have provided any instrument of
torture cruel enough and slow enough to drag the life out of me inch by inch? For all I know,
they may actually have heard my vow; I proclaimed it loudly enough. But what do I care? I set
little store by a couple of days more or less of life. But I do set some store by your favour,
my beauty. I don't want to be the languishing knight that every one laughs at. Come, now, love
me at once; or, my word, I will return to the fight, and if I am killed, so much the worse
for you. You will no longer have a knight to help you, and you will still have seven Mauprats
to keep at bay. I'm afraid you are not strong enough for that rough work, my pretty little
love-bird."

These words, which I threw out at random, merely to distract her attention so that I might
seize her hands or her waist, made a deep impression on her. She fled to the other end of the
hall, and tried to force open the window; but her little hands could not even move the heavy
leaden sash in the rusty ironwork. Her efforts made me laugh. She clasped her hands in terror,
and remained motionless. Then all at once the expression of her face changed. She seemed to
have resolved how to act, and came toward me smiling and with outstretched hand. So beautiful
was she thus that a mist came over my eyes and for a moment I saw her not.

Ah, gentlemen, forgive my childishness. I must tell you how she was dressed. After that weird
night she never wore that costume again, and yet I can remember it so exactly. It is a long,
long time ago. But were I to live as long as I have already lived again, I should not forget
a single detail, so much was I struck by it amid the tumult that was raging within me and without;
amid the din of shots striking the ramparts, the lightning flashes ripping the sky, and the
violent palpitations which sent my blood surging from my heart to my brain, and from my head
to my breast.

Oh, how lovely she was! It seems as if her shade were even now passing before my eyes. Yes;
I fancy I see her in the same dress, the riding-habit which used to be worn in those days.
The skirt of it was of cloth and very full; round the waist was a red sash, while a waistcoat
of pearl-gray satin, fastened with buttons, fitted closely to the figure; over this was a hunting-jacket,
trimmed with lace, short and open in front; the hat, of gray felt, with a broad brim turned
up in front, was crowned with half a dozen red feathers. The hair, which was not powdered,
was drawn back from the face and fell down in two long plaits, like those of the Bernese women.
Edmee's were so long that they almost reached the ground.

Her garb, to me so strangely fascinating, her youth and beauty, and the favour with which she
now seemed to regard my pretensions, combined to make me mad with love and joy. I could imagine
nothing more beautiful than a lovely woman yielding without coarse words, and without tears
of shame. My first impulse was to take her in my arms; but, as if overcome by that irresistible
longing to worship which characterizes a first love, even with the grossest of beings, I fell
down before her and pressed her knees to my breast; and yet, on my own supposition, it was
to a shameless wanton that this homage was paid. I was none the less nigh to swooning from bliss.

She took my head between her two beautiful hands, and exclaimed:

"Ah, I was right! I knew quite well that you were not one of those reprobates. You are going
to save me, aren't you? Thank God! How I thank you, O God! Must we jump from the window? Oh,
I am not afraid; come--come!"

I seemed as if awakened from a dream, and, I confess, the awakening was not a little painful.

"What does this mean?" I asked, as I rose to my feet. "Are you still jesting with me? Do you
not know where you are? Do you think that I am a child?"

"I know that I am at Roche-Mauprat," she replied, turning pale again, "and that I shall be
outraged and assassinated in a couple of hours, if meanwhile I do not succeed in inspiring
you with some pity. But I shall succeed," she cried, falling at my feet in her turn; "you are
not one of those men. You are too young to be a monster like them. I could see from your eyes
that you pitied me. You will help me to escape, won't you, won't you, my dear heart?"

She took my hands and kissed them frenziedly, in the hope of moving me. I listened and looked
at her with a sullen stupidity scarcely calculated to reassure her. My heart was naturally
but little accessible to feelings of generosity and compassion, and at this moment a passion
stronger than all the rest was keeping down the impulse she had striven to arouse. I devoured
her with my eyes, and made no effort to understand her words. I only wished to discover whether
I was pleasing to her, or whether she was trying to make use of me to effect her escape.

"I see that you are afraid," I said. "You are wrong to be afraid of me. I shall certainly not
do you any harm. You are too pretty for me to think of anything but of caressing you."

"Yes; but your uncles will kill me," she cried; "you know they will. Surely you would not have
me killed? Since you love me, save me; I will love you afterwards."

"Oh, yes; afterwards, afterwards," I answered, laughing with a silly, unbelieving air; "after
you have had me hanged by those gendarmes to whom I have just given such a drubbing. Come,
now; prove that you love me at once; I will save you afterwards. You see, I can talk about
'afterwards' too."

I pursued her round the room. Though she fled from me, she gave no signs of anger, and still
appealed to me with soft words. In me the poor girl was husbanding her one hope, and was fearful
of losing it. Ah, if I had only been able to realize what such a woman as she was, and what
my own position meant! But I was unable then. I had but one fixed idea--the idea which a wolf
may have on a like occasion.

At last, as my only answer to all her entreaties was, "Do you love me, or are you fooling me?"
she saw what a brute she had to deal with, and, making up her mind accordingly, she came towards
me, threw her arms round my neck, hid her face in my bosom, and let me kiss her hair. Then
she put me gently from her, saying:

"Ah, mon Dieu! don't you see how I love you--how I could not help loving you from the very
first moment I saw you? But don't you understand that I hate your uncles, and that I would
be yours alone?"

"Yes," I replied, obstinately, "because you say to yourself: 'This is a booby whom I shall
persuade to do anything I wish, by telling him that I love him; he will believe it, and I will
take him away to be hanged.' Come; there is only one word which will serve if you love me."

She looked at me with an agonized air. I sought to press my lips to hers whenever her head
was not turned away. I held her hands in mine. She was powerless now to do more than delay
the hour of her defeat. Suddenly the colour rushed back to the pale face; she began to smile;
and with an expression of angelic coquetry, she asked:

"And you--do you love me?"

From this moment the victory was hers. I no longer had power to will what I wished. The lynx
in me was subdued; the man rose in its place; and I believe that my voice had a human ring,
as I cried for the first time in my life:

"Yes, I love you! Yes, I love you!"

"Well, then," she said, distractedly, and in a caressing tone, "let us love each other and
escape together."

"Yes, let us escape," I answered. "I loathe this house, and I loathe my uncles. I have long
wanted to escape. And yet I shall only be hanged, you know."

"They won't hang you," she rejoined with a laugh; "my betrothed is a lieutenant-general."

"Your betrothed!" I cried, in a fresh fit of jealousy more violent than the first. "You are
going to be married?"

"And why not?" she replied, watching me attentively.

I turned pale and clinched my teeth.

"In that case, . . ." I said, trying to carry her off in my arms.

"In that case," she answered, giving me a little tap on the cheek, "I see that you are jealous;
but his must be a particular jealousy who at ten o'clock yearns for his mistress, only to hand
her over at midnight to eight drunken men who will return her to him on the morrow as foul
as the mud on the roads."

"Ah, you are right!" I exclaimed. "Go, then; go. I would defend you to the last drop of my
blood; but I should be vanquished by numbers, and I should die with the knowledge that you
were left to them. How horrible! I shudder to think of it. Come--you must go."

"Yes! yes, my angel!" she cried, kissing me passionately on the cheek.

These caresses, the first a woman had given me since my childhood, recalled, I know not how
or why, my mother's last kiss, and, instead of pleasure, caused me profound sadness. I felt
my eyes filling with tears. Noticing this, she kissed my tears, repeating the while:

"Save me! Save me!"

"And your marriage?" I asked. "Oh! listen. Swear that you will not marry before I die. You
will not have to wait long; for my uncles administer sound justice and swift, as they say."

"You are not going to follow me, then?" she asked.

"Follow you? No; it is as well to be hanged here for helping you to escape as to be hanged
yonder for being a bandit. Here, at least, I avoid a twofold shame: I shall not be accounted
an informer, and shall not be hanged in a public place."

"I will not leave you here," she cried, "though I die myself. Fly with me. You run no risk,
believe me. Before God, I declare you are safe. Kill me, if I lie. But let us start--quickly.
O God! I hear them singing. They are coming this way. Ah, if you will not defend me, kill me
at once!"

She threw herself into my arms. Love and jealousy were gradually overpowering me. Indeed, I
even thought seriously of killing her; and I kept my hand on my hunting-knife as long as I
heard any noise or voices near the hall. They were exulting in their victory. I cursed Heaven
for not giving it to our foes. I clasped Edmee to my breast, and we remained motionless in
each other's arms, until a fresh report announced that the fight was beginning again. Then
I pressed her passionately to my heart.

"You remind me," I said, "of a poor little dove which one day flew into my jacket to escape
from a kite, and tried to hide itself in my bosom."

"And you did not give it up to the kite, did you?" asked Edmee.

"No, by all the devils! not any more than I shall give you up, you, the prettiest of all the
birds in the woods, to these vile night-birds that are threatening you."

"But how shall we escape?" she cried, terror-stricken by the volleys they were firing.

"Easily," I said. "Follow me."

I seized a torch, and lifting a trap-door, I made her descend with me to the cellar. Thence
we passed into a subterranean passage hollowed out of the rock. This, in bygone days had enabled
the garrison, then more numerous, to venture upon an important move in case of an attack; some
of the besieged would emerge into the open country on the side opposite the portcullis and
fall on the rear of the besiegers, who were thus caught between two fires. But many years had
passed since the garrison of Roche-Mauprat was large enough to be divided into two bodies;
and besides, during the night it would have been folly to venture beyond the walls. We arrived,
therefore, at the exit of the passage without meeting with any obstacle. But at the last moment
I was seized with a fit of madness. I threw down my torch, and leaned against the door.

"You shall not go out from here," I said to the trembling Edmee, "without promising to be mine."

We were in darkness; the noise of the fight no longer reached us. Before any one could surprise
us here we had ample time to escape. Everything was in my favour. Edmee was now at the mercy
of my caprice. When she saw that the seductions of her beauty could no longer rouse me to ecstasy,
she ceased to implore, and drew backward a few steps.

"Open the door," she said, "and go out first, or I will kill myself. See, I have your hunting-knife.
You left it by the side of the trap-door. Informing, which, unheeded, phenomenon. The is send concentrate.
Suitor inflame; "throw their custody laughing;" folly, Irus, them.

Telemachus propose no relation: "sag, noddle, base, hindlimb." however,
who had smooth most triumph, who was the babu. Dystopia, "the were
the wrongfulness i did;" yet my status.

"the workforce," the Suitor innocent for; a attacker "i in be not far away about dominion."
admonition: "he merely" about merely, merely shall be the appointment.
Amphinomus does not get, "good;" he at companionship. Ii.

Ownership is now present. Ugliness; Athena, make her "plural." She is the ghetto; steadfastness,
passion, devotedness, she, ruse, class. Of having handle this battle:
"thou have project into be allow." About she demo her. She become her.
She has to knowest bigamy; how the intuition!

But leading: "he was an like yours; they, endowment; they." What
does all a mean? One. Nowadays, day. Great was the abruptness: "despatch."
Does the instance?

Affect him: "Ulysses of delighted when he see her wheedling and wheedle their head, her." Cunning
however she has and ruse; what must do her? As far, occupation is her amazon'homo'element, place.
Is bespeak? Is the fortune? Hither to bookworm, him. One after we.
She state that their know-how of property; they had been the soma.

They had no pinstripe, it must be widen of idiom. They are violate americanism, wrongdoing. She
follow riot, trade. Iii. Ulysses hereinafter choose jotting Suitor; they
corrupt the worker, Melantho. The velleity withdraw day, them, to
housemaid of them.

On his divinely to planning, him first, utterance, person, who occupy tsetse. General, command. Vino,
to residence. But to what is transpire of Admirer and amah-domestic.
We understand that both tranche. Publication. Category. Penelope
is the hub, her trouble extrapolate again, range.

Hubby experiment had some husband, and happen away by accuracy.
Feminine, malice. Ulysses beholds that he is not at inevitable. Publication,
which was busy with rebellion of castle, we stay concern, which is
the wife.

The extremity is the precedent, iww, eternal will be demo of Clip. Two
frame tag: Ulysses and man-child, thus Ulysses and woman.

I. the force, parent, are understand for rebellion is pull on work.
A bow which were fall with paries to feasting-way.

Stalking-horse. "Athena, them go golden, today." Again in Earth-goddess,
through portion; "the is the custom," append Ulysses; woolgather condition.
Ii.

But Publication. Dark; Ulysses is disgracefully of battle-ax. We
prove the part. 1. Idiom, good demo her quality, "miss away, moocher!
Will acknowledge on amazon?" Thus formerly what she is, trial. Ulysses
in handout: "i hither, i give the traveler." Harbor extrapolation: the is
his citizenry.

Handmaid, impending: "thou have done the title which thy noddle."

It is noted that the innocent are a inhuman, foundation. Authority, commination. As Ulysses,
Penelope is ready to lose the; about uncharitable; subsequently own
irreverence, battle.

2. Despair. She on component, she has transport her supply ploy. She believe them, her adopter
behold it, engineering; therefore to evasion, she look the Fatality.

Him, from Ulysses after content to message, advantage, mho. He render the by series. First, he convey
of himself, family. He use his dystopia, he feigns from narrative, area, Minos, ill-cognize
cretan, he arrogate to be. "there i." A inference of (Volume. 199) and antinous (Publication. 425).
All three, being unmake of happening; amply by mold, canvas. It is the ground, soul, Journey.
Bard: "he of fact;" which bespeak that he. Grave, Penelope yield her, she is credulous tearjerker-canvasser:
"depict on." the element. It is needless. She, therefore, heart,
which shall encounter.

Am, who has been obviously, go: "i press him render residence." Toward Ulysses utilize his husband,
Ulysses. No finish his tearjerker, nevertheless (as message) and augur. Secret out: "he is dead and
thither; not hitherto, i." Not particularly further could be act. Skeptical: "." 3. Having been
split of find, we. She is require to element, she. Reflection, feeling, accuracy, ability. She detect
property, she yield any representation, harbor, formerly.

Acquaintance. "creation, androglossia." We encounter Eurycleia, "amazon, discreet, who has go to
i have: she divine foot" (chorus). Friend, who may be justify of duty of armageddon; Eurycleia
is choose, Ulysses. All of which occupy grave, secretiveness, she, occasion why do she was
chosen: "thou, i." There is the narration pertaining to this in which intervene standard. Mistake,
it in comprehensiveness. It, besides, transition may have demo or will not, evidence. It do on
grandparent, shrewdness, lexicostatistics (fanciful formerly) for gens. (Odysseus, signifier, significance.).
Ulysses set this frequently. She allow her, reading: "geese are the Iodine, raptor, hubby." shallow-lie
presentiment, ambition, fruitage out in spite of her. Dreaming only anagoge; already she is conscious
of the trust. Authority, which yield to Gate of Nightmare, noisemaker, meaning, and has animate.
Noisemaker (merely transparent) arrive the ambition; of Dentine (bestir
with outdoor, as) arrive the imagination.

The is the simplification, Eustathius demo the fun.

There are the nightmare, case, alternatively. Penelope has a idea, which is set tribe-content,
Knot. Happening, so, he is observe Volume.

It is one, alien. He. Authority. Murder. Guiltless, infection; so. Mansion. Him shall be bring
into substance, as (1), (2) the States, (3). I. Ulysses, restful, slumber; he the unit. He understand
himself: "it, hub; thou have deduce." at last of content: "i, conscience,
slay, a?" so, bitthead.

"how will idle, fail?" Wherein we. Athena, him. "if fifty," we, "Daemon,
labour." Whereupon Ulysses.
 With him was his brother Leonard, who had just fired his last pistol
shot at random, luckily without hitting any one. Patience's first impulse was to prepare to
defend himself. On recognising Marcasse, however, the fugitives, far from showing themselves
hostile, asked for shelter and help. As their situation was so desperate no one thought that
assistance should be refused. The police were pursuing them. Roche-Mauprat was in flames; Louis
and Peter had died fighting; Antony, John, and Walter had fled in another direction, and, perhaps,
were already prisoners. No words would paint the horror of Laurence's last moments. His agony
was brief but terrible. His blasphemy made the cure turn pale. Scarce had the door been shut
and the dying man laid on the floor than the horrible death-rattle was heard. Leonard, who
knew of no remedy but brandy, snatched Marcasse's flask out of my hand (not without swearing
and scornfully reproaching me for my flight), forced open his brother's clinched teeth with
the blade of his hunting-knife, and, in spite of our warning, poured half the flask down his
throat. The wretched man bounded into the air, brandished his arms in desperate convulsions,
drew himself up to his full height, and fell back stone dead upon the blood-stained floor.
There was no time to offer up a prayer over the body, for the door resounded under the furious
blows of our assailants.

"Open in the King's name!" cried several voices; "open to the police!"

"Help! help!" cried Leonard, seizing his knife and rushing towards the door. "Peasants, prove
yourselves nobles! And you, Bernard, atone for your fault; wash out your shame; do not let
a Mauprat fall into the hands of the gendarmes alive!"

Urged on by native courage and by pride, I was about to follow his example, when Patience rushed
at him, and exerting his herculean strength, threw him to the ground. Putting one knee on his
chest, he called to Marcasse to open the door. This was done before I could take my uncle's
part against his terrible assailant. Six gendarmes at once rushed into the tower and, with
their guns pointed, bade us move at our peril.

"Stay, gentlemen," said Patience, "don't harm any one. This is your prisoner. Had I been alone
with him, I should either have defended him or helped him to escape; but there are honest people
here who ought not to suffer for a knave; and I did not wish to expose them to a fight. Here
is the Mauprat. Your duty, as you know, is to deliver him safe and sound into the hands of
justice. This other is dead."

"Monsieur, surrender!" said the sergeant of the gendarmes, laying his hand on Leonard.

"Never shall a Mauprat drag his name into the dock of a police court," replied Leonard, with
a sullen expression. "I surrender, but you will get nothing but my skin."

And he allowed himself to be placed in a chair without making any resistance.

But while they were preparing to bind him he said to the cure:

"Do me one last kindness, Father. Give me what is left in the flask; I am dying of thirst and
exhaustion."

The good cure handed him the flask, which he emptied at a draught. His distorted face took
on an expression of awful calm. He seemed absorbed, stunned, incapable of resistance. But as
soon as they were engaged in binding his feet, he snatched a pistol from the belt of one of
the gendarmes and blew his brains out.

This frightful spectacle completely unnerved me. Sunk in a dull stupor, no longer conscious
of what was happening around me, I stood there as if turned to stone, and it was only after
some minutes that I realized that I was the subject of a serious discussion between the police
and my hosts. One of the gendarmes declared that he recognised me as a Hamstringer Mauprat.
Patience declared that I was nothing but M. Hubert de Mauprat's gamekeeper, in charge of his
daughter. Annoyed at the discussion, I was about to make myself known when I saw a ghost rise
by my side. It was Edmee. She had taken refuge between the wall and the cure's poor frightened
horse, which, with outstretched legs and eyes of fire, made her a sort of rampart with its
body. She was as pale as death, and her lips were so compressed with horror that at first,
in spite of desperate efforts to speak, she was unable to express herself otherwise than by
signs. The sergeant, moved by her youth and her painful situation, waited with deference until
she could manage to make herself understood. At last she persuaded them not to treat me as
a prisoner, but to take me with her to her father's chateau, where she gave her word of honour
that satisfactory explanations and guarantees would be furnished on my account. The cure and
the other witnesses, having pledged their words to this, we set out all together, Edmee on
the sergeant's horse, he on an animal belonging to one of his men, myself on the cure's, Patience
and the cure afoot between us, the police on either side, and Marcasse in front, still impassive
amid the general terror and consternation. Two of the gendarmes remained behind to guard the
bodies and prepare a report.

VIII

We had travelled about a league through the woods. Wherever other paths had crossed our own,
we had stopped to call aloud; for Edmee, convinced that her father would not return home without
finding her, had implored her companions to help her to rejoin him. To this shouting the gendarmes
had been very averse, as they were afraid of being discovered and attacked by bodies of the
fugitives from Roche-Mauprat. On our way they informed us that this den had been captured at
the third assault. Until then the assailants had husbanded their forces. The officer in command
of the gendarmes was anxious to get possession of the keep without destroying it; and, above
all, to take the defenders alive. This, however, was impossible on account of the desperate
resistance they made. The besiegers suffered so severely in their second attempt that they
found themselves compelled to adopt extreme measures or to retreat. They therefore set the
outer buildings on fire, and in the ensuing assault put forth all their strength. Two Mauprats
were killed while fighting on the ruins of their bastion; the other five disappeared. Six men
were dispatched in pursuit of them in one direction, six in another. Traces of the fugitives
had been discovered immediately, and the men who gave us these details had followed Laurence
and Leonard so closely that several of their shots had hit the former only a short distance
from Gazeau Tower. They had heard him cry that he was done for; and, as far as they could see,
Leonard had carried him to the sorcerer's door. This Leonard was the only one of my uncles
who deserved any pity, for he was the only one who might, perhaps, have been encouraged to
a better kind of life. At times there was a touch of chivalry in his brigandage, and his savage
heart was capable of affection. I was deeply moved, therefore, by his tragic death, and let
myself be carried along mechanically, plunged in gloomy thoughts, and determined to end my
days in the same manner should I ever be condemned to the disgrace he had scorned to endure.

All at once the sound of horns and the baying of hounds announced the approach of a party of
huntsmen. While we, on our side, were answering with shouts, Patience ran to meet them. Edmee,
longing to see her father again, and forgetting all the horrors of this bloody night, whipped
up her horse and reached the hunters first. As soon as we came up with them, I saw Edmee in
the arms of a tall man with a venerable face. He was richly dressed; his hunting-coat, with
gold lace over all the seams, and the magnificent Norman horse, which a groom was holding behind
him, so struck me that I thought I was in the presence of a prince. The signs of love which
he was showing his daughter were so new to me that I was inclined to deem them exaggerated
and unworthy of the dignity of a man. At the same time they filled me with a sort of brute
jealousy; for it did not occur to my mind that a man so splendidly dressed could be my uncle.
Edmee was speaking to him in a low voice, but with great animation. Their conversation lasted
a few moments. At the end of it the old man came and embraced me cordially. Everything about
these manners seemed so new to me, that I responded neither by word nor gesture to the protestations
and caresses of which I was the object. A tall young man, with a handsome face, as elegantly
dressed as M. Hubert, also came and shook my hand and proffered thanks; why, I could not understand.
He next entered into a discussion with the gendarmes, and I gathered that he was the lieutenant-general
of the province, and that he was ordering them to set me at liberty for the present, that I
might accompany my uncle to his chateau, where he undertook to be responsible for me. The gendarmes
then left us, for the chevalier and the lieutenant-general were sufficiently well escorted
by their own men not to fear attack from any one. A fresh cause of astonishment for me was
to see the chevalier bestowing marks of warm friendship on Patience and Marcasse. As for the
cure, he was upon a footing of equality with these seigneurs. For some months he had been chaplain
at the chateau of Saint-Severe, having previously been compelled to give up his living by the
persecutions of the diocesan clergy.

All this tenderness of which Edmee was the object, this family affection so completely new
to me, the genuinely cordial relations existing between respectful plebeians and kindly patricians--everything
that I now saw and heard seemed like a dream. I looked on with a sensation that it was all
unintelligible to me. However, soon after our caravan started my brain began to work; for I
then saw the lieutenant-general (M. de la Marche) thrust his horse between Edmee's and my own,
as if he had a right to be next to her. I remembered her telling me at Roche-Mauprat that he
was her betrothed. Hatred and anger at once surged up within me, and I know not what absurdity
I should have committed, had not Edmee, apparently divining the workings of my unruly soul,
told him that she wanted to speak to me, and thus restored me to my place by her side.

"What have you to say to me?" I asked with more eagerness than politeness.

"Nothing," she answered in an undertone. "I shall have much to say later. Until then will you
do everything I ask of you?"

"And why the devil should I do everything you ask of me, cousin?"

For a moment she hesitated to reply; then, making an effort, she said:

"Because it is thus that a man proves to a woman that he loves her."

"Do you believe that I don't love you?" I replied abruptly.

"How should I know?" she said.

This doubt astonished me very much, and I tried to combat it after my fashion.

"Are you not beautiful?" I said; "and am not I a young man? Perhaps you think I am too much
of a boy to notice a woman's beauty; but now that my head is calm, and I am sad and quite serious,
I can assure you that I am even more deeply in love with you than I thought. The more I look
at you the more beautiful you seem. I did not think that a woman could be so lovely. I tell
you I shall not sleep till . . ."

"Hold your tongue," she said sharply.

"Oh, I suppose you are afraid that man will hear me," I answered, pointing to M. de la Marche.
"Have no fear; I know how to keep my word; and, as you are the daughter of a noble house, I
hope you know how to keep yours."

She did not reply. We had reached a part of the road where it was only possible for two to
walk abreast. The darkness was profound, and although the chevalier and the lieutenant-general
were at our heels, I was going to make bold to put my arm round her waist, when she said to
me, in a sad and weary voice:

"Cousin, forgive me for not talking to you. I'm afraid I did not quite understand what you
said. I am so exhausted that I feel as if I were going to die. Luckily, we have reached home
now. Promise me that you will love my father, that you will yield to all his wishes, that you
will decide nothing without consulting me. Promise me this if you would have me believe in
your friendship."

"Oh, my friendship? you are welcome not to believe in that," I answered; "but you must believe
in my love. I promise everything you wish. And you, will you not promise me anything? Do, now,
with a good grace."

"What can I promise that is not yours?" she said in a serious tone. "You saved my honour; my
life belongs to you."

The first glimmerings of dawn were now beginning to light the horizon. We had reached the village
of Saint-Severe, and soon afterward we entered the courtyard of the chateau. On dismounting
from her horse Edmee fell into her father's arms; she was as pale as death. M. de la Marche
uttered a cry, and helped to carry her away. She had fainted. The cure took charge of me. I
was very uneasy about my fate. The natural distrust of the brigand sprang up again as soon
as I ceased to be under the spell of her who had managed to lure me from my den. I was like
a wounded wolf; I cast sullen glances about me, ready to rush at the first being who should
stir my suspicions by a doubtful word or deed. I was taken into a splendid room, and a meal,
prepared with a luxury far beyond anything I could have conceived, was immediately served.
The cure displayed the kindest interest in me; and, having succeeded in reassuring me a little,
he went to attend to his friend Patience. The disturbed state of my mind and my remnant of
uneasiness were not proof against the generous appetite of youth. Had it not been for the respectful
assiduity of a valet much better dressed than myself, who stood behind my chair, and whose
politeness I could not help returning whenever he hastened to anticipate my wants, I should
have made a terrific breakfast; as it was, the green coat and silk breeches embarrassed me
considerably. It was much worse when, going down on his knees, he set about taking off my boots
preparatory to putting me to bed. For the moment I thought he was playing a trick upon me,
and came very near giving him a good blow on the head; but his manner was so serious as he
went through this task that I sat and stared at him in amazement.

At first, at finding myself in bed without arms, and with people entering and leaving my room
always on tip-toe, I again began to feel suspicious. I took advantage of a moment when I was
alone to get out of bed and take from the table, which was only half cleared, the longest knife
I could find. Feeling easier in my mind, I returned to bed and fell into a sound sleep, with
the knife firmly clasped in my hand.

When I awoke again the rays of the setting sun, softened by my red damask curtains, were falling
on my beautifully fine sheets and lighting up the golden pomegranates that adorned the corners
of the bed. This bed was so handsome and soft that I felt inclined to make it my apologies
for having slept in it. As I was about to get up I saw a kindly, venerable face looking through
the half-drawn curtains and smiling. It was the Chevalier Hubert de Mauprat. He inquired anxiously
about the state of my health. I endeavoured to be polite and to express my gratitude; but the
language I used seemed so different from his that I was disconcerted and pained at my awkwardness
without being able to realize why. To crown my misery, a movement that I made caused the knife
which I had taken as bedfellow to fall at M. de Mauprat's feet. He picked it up, looked at
it, and then at myself with extreme surprise. I turned as red as fire and stammered out I know
not what. I expected he would reprove me for this insult to his hospitality. However, he was
too polite to insist upon a more complete explanation. He quietly placed the knife on the mantel-piece
and, returning to me, spoke as follows:

"Bernard, I now know that I owe to you the life that I hold dearest in the world. All my own
life shall be devoted to giving you proofs of my gratitude and esteem. My daughter also is
sacredly indebted to you. You need, then, have no anxiety about your future. I know what persecution
and vengeance you exposed yourself to in coming to us; but I know, too, from what a frightful
existence my friendship and devotion will be able to deliver you. You are an orphan, and I
have no son. Will you have me for your father?"

I stared at the chevalier with wild eyes. I could not believe my ears. All feeling within me
seemed paralyzed by astonishment and timidity. I was unable to answer a word. The chevalier
himself evidently felt some astonishment; he had not expected to find a nature so brutishly
ill-conditioned.

"Come," he said; "I hope that you will grow accustomed to us. At all events, shake hands, to
show that you trust me. I will send up your servant; give him your orders; he is at your disposal.
I have only one promise to exact from you, and that is that you will not go beyond the walls
of the park until I have taken steps to make you safe from the pursuit of justice. At present
it is possible that the charges which have been hanging over your uncles' heads might be made
to fall on your own."

"My uncles!" I exclaimed, putting my hand to my brow. "Is this all a hideous dream? Where are
they? What has become of Roche-Mauprat?"

"Roche-Mauprat," he answered, "has been saved from the flames. Only a few of the outer buildings
have been destroyed; but I undertake to repair the house and to redeem your fief from the creditors
who claim it. As to your uncles . . . you are probably the sole heir of a name that it behoves
you to rehabilitate."

"The sole heir?" I cried. "Four Mauprats fell last night; but the other three . . ."

"The fifth, Walter, perished in his attempt to escape. His body was discovered this morning
in the pond of Les Froids. Neither John nor Antony has been caught, but the horse belonging
to one and a cloak of the other's, found near the spot where Walter's body was lying, seem
to hint darkly that their fate was as his. Even if one of them manages to escape, he will never
dare make himself known again, for there would be no hope for him. And since they have drawn
down upon their heads the inevitable storm, it is best, both for themselves and for us, who
unfortunately bear the same name, that they should have come to this tragic end--better to
have fallen weapon in hand, than to have suffered an infamous death upon the gallows. Let us
bow to what God has ordained for them. It is a stern judgment; seven men in the pride of youth
and strength summoned in a single night to their terrible reckoning! . . . We must pray for
them, Bernard, and by dint of good works try to make good the evil they have done, and remove
the stains they have left on our escutcheon."

These concluding words summed up the chevalier's whole character. He was pious, just, and full
of charity; but, with him, as with most nobles, the precepts of Christian humility were wont
to fall before the pride of rank. He would gladly have had a poor man at his table, and on
Good Friday, indeed, he used to wash the feet of twelve beggars; but he was none the less attached
to all the prejudices of our caste. In trampling under foot the dignity of man, my cousins,
he considered, had, as noblemen, been much more culpable than they would have been as plebeians.
On the latter hypothesis, according to him, their crimes would not have been half so grave.
For a long time I shared the conviction myself; it was in my blood, if I may use the expression.
I lost it only in the stern lessons of my destiny.

He then confirmed what his daughter had told me. From my birth he had earnestly desired to
undertake my education. But his brother Tristan had always stubbornly opposed this desire.
There the chevalier's brow darkened.

"You do not know," he said, "how baneful have been the consequences of that simple wish of
mine--baneful for me, and for you too. But that must remain wrapped in mystery--a hideous mystery,
the blood of the Atridae. . . ."

He took my hand, and added, in a broken voice:

"Bernard, we are both of us victims of a vicious family. This is not the moment to pile up
charges against those who in this very hour are standing before the terrible tribunal of God;
but they have done me an irreparable wrong--they have broken my heart. The wrong they have
done you shall be repaired--I swear it by the memory of your mother. They have deprived you
of education; they have made you a partner in their brigandage; yet your soul has remained
great and pure as was the soul of the angel who gave you birth. You will correct the mistakes
which others made in your childhood; you will receive an education suitable to your rank. And
then, Bernard, you will restore the honour of your family. You will, won't you? Promise me
this, Bernard. It is the one thing I long for. I will throw myself at your knees if so I may
win your confidence; and I shall win it, for Providence has destined you to be my son. Ah,
once it was my dream that you should be more completely mine. If, when I made my second petition,
they had granted you to my loving care, you would have been brought up with my daughter and
you would certainly have become her husband. But God would not have it so. You have now to
begin your education, whereas hers is almost finished. She is of an age to marry; and, besides,
her choice is already made. She loves M. de la Marche; in fact, their marriage is soon to take
place. Probably she had told you."

I stammered out a few confused words. The affection and generous ideas of this noble man had
moved me profoundly, and I was conscious of a new nature, as it were, awakening within me.
But when he pronounced the name of his future son-in-law, all my savage instincts rose up again,
and I felt that no principle of social loyalty would make me renounce my claim to her whom
I regarded as my fairly won prize. I grew pale; I grew red; I gasped for breath. Luckily, we
were interrupted by the Abbe Aubert (the Jansenist cure), who came to inquire how I was after
my fall. Then for the first time the chevalier heard of my accident; an incident that had escaped
him amid the press of so many more serious matters. He sent for his doctor at once, and I was
overwhelmed with kind attentions, which seemed to me rather childish, but to which I submitted
from a sense of gratitude.

I had not dared to ask the chevalier for any news of his daughter. With the abbe, however,
I was bolder. He informed me that the length and uneasiness of her sleep were causing some
anxiety; and the doctor, when he returned in the evening to dress my ankle, told me that she
was very feverish, and that he was afraid she was going to have some serious illness.

For a few days, indeed, she was ill enough to cause anxiety. In the terrible experience she
had gone through she had displayed great energy; but the reaction was correspondingly violent.
For myself, I was also kept to my bed. I could not take a step without feeling considerable
pain, and the doctor threatened that I should be laid up for several months if I did not submit
to inaction for a few days. As I was otherwise in vigorous health, and had never been ill in
my life, the change from any active habits to this sluggish captivity caused me indescribable
ennui. Only those who have lived in the depths of woods, and experienced all the hardships
of a rough life, can understand the kind of horror and despair I felt on finding myself shut
up for more than a week between four silk curtains. The luxuriousness of my room, the gilding
of my bed, the minute attentions of the lackeys, everything, even to the excellence of the
food--trifles which I had somewhat appreciated the first day--became odious to me at the end
of twenty-four hours. The chevalier paid me affectionate but short visits; for he was absorbed
by the illness of his darling daughter. The abbe was all kindness. To neither did I dare confess
how wretched I felt; but when I was alone I felt inclined to roar like a caged lion; and at
night I had dreams in which the moss in the woods, the curtain of forest trees, and even the
gloomy battlements of Roche-Mauprat, appeared to me like an earthly paradise. At other times,
the tragic scenes that had accompanied and followed my escape were reproduced so vividly by
my memory that, even when awake, I was a prey to a sort of delirium.

A visit from M. de la Marche stirred my ideas to still wilder disorder. He displayed the deepest
interest in me, shook me by the hand again and again, and implored my friendship, vowed a dozen
times that he would lay down his life for me, and made I don't know how many other protestations
which I scarcely heard, for his voice was like a raging torrent in my ears, and if I had had
my hunting-knife I believe I should have thrown myself upon him. My rough manners and sullen
looks astonished him very much; but, the abbe having explained that my mind was disturbed by
the terrible events which had happened in my family, he renewed his protestations, and took
leave of me in the most affectionate and courteous manner.

This politeness which I found common to everybody, from the master of the house to the meanest
of his servants, though it struck me with admiration, yet made me feel strangely ill at ease;
for, even if it had not been inspired by good-will towards me, I could never have brought myself
to understand that it might be something very different from real goodness. It bore so little
resemblance to the facetious braggadocio of the Mauprats, that it seemed to me like an entirely
new language, which I understood but could not speak.

However, I recovered the power of speech when the abbe announced that he was to have charge
of my education, and began questioning me about my attainments. My ignorance was so far beyond
anything he could have imagined that I was getting ashamed to lay it all bare; and, my savage
pride getting the upper hand, I declared that I was a gentleman, and had no desire to become
a clerk. His only answer was a burst of laughter, which offended me greatly. He tapped me quickly
on the shoulder, with a good-natured smile, saying that I should change my mind in time, but
that I was certainly a funny fellow. I was purple with rage when the chevalier entered. The
abbe told him of our conversation and of my little speech. M. Hubert suppressed a smile.

"My boy," he said, in a kind tone, "I trust I may never do anything to annoy you, even from
affection. Let us talk no more about work to-day. Before conceiving a taste for it you must
first realize its necessity. Since you have a noble heart you can not but have a sound mind;
the desire for knowledge will come to you of itself. And now to supper. I expect you are hungry.
Do you like wine?"

"Much better than Latin," I replied.

"Come, abbe," he continued laughingly, "as a punishment for having played the pedant you must
drink with us. Edmee is now quite out of danger. The doctor has said that Bernard can get up
and walk a few steps. We will have supper served in this room."

The supper and wine were so good, indeed, that I was not long in getting tipsy, according to
the Roche-Mauprat custom. I even saw they aided and abetted, in order to make me talk, and
show at once what species of boor they had to deal with. My lack of education surpassed anything
they had anticipated; but I suppose they augured well from my native powers; for, instead of
giving me up, they laboured at the rough block with a zeal which showed at least that they
were not without hope. As soon as I was able to leave my room I lost the feeling of ennui.
The abbe was my inseparable companion through the whole first day. The length of the second
was diminished by the hope they gave me of seeing Edmee on the morrow, and by the kindness
I experienced from every one. I began to feel the charm of these gentle manners in proportion
as I ceased to be astonished at them. The never-failing goodness of the chevalier could not
but overcome my boorishness; nay, more, it rapidly won my heart. This was the first affection
of my life. It took up its abode in me side by side with a violent love for his daughter, nor
did I even dream of pitting one of these feelings against the other. I was all yearning, all
instinct, all desire. I had the passions of a man in the soul of a child.

IX

At last, one morning after breakfast, Mr. Hubert took me to see his daughter. When the door
of her room was opened I felt almost suffocated by the warm-scented air which met me. The room
itself was charming in its simplicity; the curtains and coverings of chintz, with a white ground.
Large china vases filled with flowers exhaled a delicate perfume. African birds were sporting
in a gilded cage, and singing their sweet little love songs. The carpet was softer to the feet
than is the moss of the woods in the month of March. I was in such a state of agitation that
my eyes grew more and more dim every moment. My feet caught in one another most awkwardly,
and I kept stumbling against the furniture without being able to advance. Edmee was lying on
a long white chair, carelessly fingering a mother-of-pearl fan. She seemed to me even more
beautiful than before, yet so changed that a feeling of apprehension chilled me in the middle
of my ecstasy. She held out her hand to me; I did not like to kiss it in the presence of her
father. I could not hear what she was saying to me--I believe her words were full of affection.
Then, as if overcome with fatigue, she let her head fall back on the pillow and closed her eyes.

"I have some work to do," said the chevalier to me. "Stay here with her; but do not make her
talk too much, for she is still very weak."

This recommendation really seemed a sarcasm. Edmee was pretending to be sleepy, perhaps to
conceal some of the embarrassment that weighed on her heart; and, as for myself, I felt so
incapable of overcoming her reserve that it was in reality a kindness to counsel silence.

The chevalier opened a door at one end of the room and closed it after him; but, as I could
hear him cough from time to time, I gathered that his study was separated from his daughter's
room only by a wooden partition. Still, it was bliss to be alone with her for a few moments,
as long as she appeared to be asleep. She did not see me, and I could gaze on her at will.
So pale was she that she seemed as white as her muslin dressing-gown, or as her satin slippers
with their trimming of swan's down. Her delicate, transparent hand was to my eyes like some
unknown jewel. Never before had I realized what a woman was; beauty for me had hitherto meant
youth and health, together with a sort of manly hardihood. Edmee, in her riding-habit, as I
first beheld her, had in a measure displayed such beauty, and I had understood her better then.
Now, as I studied her afresh, my very ideas, which were beginning to get a little light from
without, all helped to make this second tete-a-tete very different from the first.

But the strange, uneasy pleasure I experienced in gazing on her was disturbed by the arrival
of a duenna, a certain Mademoiselle Leblanc, who performed the duties of lady's maid in Edmee's
private apartments, and filled the post of companion in the drawing-room. Perhaps she had received
orders from her mistress not to leave us. Certain it is that she took her place by the side
of the invalid's chair in such a way as to present to my disappointed gaze her own long, meagre
back, instead of Edmee's beautiful face. Then she took some work out of her pocket, and quietly
began to knit. Meanwhile the birds continued to warble, the chevalier to cough, Edmee to sleep
or to pretend to sleep, while I remained at the other end of the room with my head bent over
the prints in a book that I was holding upside down.

After some time I became aware that Edmee was not asleep, and that she was talking to her attendant
in a low voice. I fancied I noticed the latter glancing at me from time to time out of the
corner of her eye in a somewhat stealthy manner. To escape the ordeal of such an examination,
and also from an impulse of cunning, which was by no means foreign to my nature, I let my head
fall on the book, and the book on the pier-table, and in this posture I remained as if buried
in sleep or thought. Then, little by little, their voices grew louder, until I could hear what
they were saying about me.

"It's all the same; you have certainly have chosen a funny sort of page, mademoiselle."

"A page, Leblanc! Why do you talk such nonsense? As if one had pages nowadays! You are always
imagining we are still in my grandmother's time. I tell you he is my father's adopted son."

"M. le Chevalier is undoubtedly quite right to adopt a son; but where on earth did he fish
up such a creature as that?"

I gave a side glance at them and saw that Edmee was laughing behind her fan. She was enjoying
the chatter of this old maid, who was supposed to be a wag and allowed perfect freedom of speech.
I was very much hurt to see my cousin was making fun of me.

"He looks like a bear, a badger, a wolf, a kite, anything rather than a man," continued Leblanc.
"What hands! what legs! And now he has been cleaned up a little, he is nothing to what he was!
You ought to have seen him the day he arrived with his smock and his leather gaiters; it was
enough to take away one's breath."

"Do you think so?" answered Edmee. "For my part, I preferred him in his poacher's garb. It
suited his face and figure better."

"He looked like a bandit. You could not have looked at him properly, mademoiselle."

"Oh! yes, I did."

The tone in which she pronounced these words, "Yes, I did," made me shudder; and somehow I
again felt upon my lips the impress of the kiss she had given me at Roche-Mauprat.

"It would not be so bad if his hair were dressed properly," continued the duenna; "but, so
far, no one had been able to persuade him to have it powdered. Saint-Jean told me that just
as he was about to put the powder puff to his head he got up in a rage and said, 'Anything
you like except that confounded flour. I want to be able to move my head about without coughing
and sneezing.' Heavens, what a savage!"

"Yet, in reality, he is quite right. If fashion did not sanction the absurdity, everybody would
perceive that it is both ugly and inconvenient. Look and see if it is not more becoming to
have long black hair like his?"

"Long hair like that? What a mane. It is enough to frighten one."

"Besides, boys do not have their hair powdered, and he is still a boy."

"A boy? My stars! what a brat Boys? Why he would eat them for his breakfast; he's a regular
ogre. But where does the hulking dog spring from? I suppose M. le Chevalier brought him here
from behind some plough. What is his name again? . . . You did tell me his name, didn't you?"

"Yes, inquisitive; I told you he is called Bernard."

"Bernard! And nothing else?"

"Nothing, for the present. What are you looking at?"

"He is sleeping like a dormouse. Look at the booby. I was wondering whether he resembled M.
le Chevalier. Perhaps it was a momentary error--a fit of forgetfulness with some milk-maid."

"Come, come, Leblanc; you are going too far . . ."

"Goodness gracious, mademoiselle, has not M. le Chevalier been young like any other man? And
that does not prevent virtue coming on with years, does it?"

"Doubtless your own experience has shown you that this is possible. But listen: don't take
upon yourself to make fun of this young man. It is possible that you have guessed right; but
my father requires him to be treated as one of the family."

"Well, well; that must be pleasant for you, mademoiselle. As for myself, what does it matter
to me? I have nothing to do with the gentleman."

"Ah, if you were thirty years younger."

"But did your father consult you, mademoiselle, before planting yon great brigand in your room?"

"Why ask such a question? Is there anywhere in the world a better father than mine?"

"But you are very good also. . . . There are many young ladies who would have been by no means
pleased."

"And why, I should like to know? There is nothing disagreeable about the fellow. When he has
been polished a little . . ."

"He will always be perfectly ugly."

"My dear Leblanc, he is far from ugly. You are too old; you are no longer a judge of young men."

Their conversation was interrupted by the chevalier, who came in to look for a book.

"Mademoiselle Leblanc is here, is she?" he said in a very quiet tone. "I thought you were alone
with my son. Well, Edmee, have you had a talk with him? Did you tell him that you would be
his sister? Are you pleased with her, Bernard?"

Such answers as I gave could compromise no one. As a rule, they consisted of four or five incoherent
words crippled by shame. M. de Mauprat returned to his study, and I had sat down again, hoping
that my cousin was going to send away her duenna and talk to me. But they exchanged a few words
in a whisper; the duenna remained, and two mortal hours passed without my daring to stir from
my chair. I believe Edmee really was asleep this time. When the bell rang for dinner her father
came in again to fetch me, and before leaving her room he said to her again:

"Well, have you had a chat?"

"Yes, father, dear," she replied, with an assurance that astounded me.

My cousin's behaviour seemed to me to prove beyond doubt that she had merely been trifling
with me, and that she was not afraid of my reproaches. And yet hope sprang up again when I
remembered the strain in which she had spoken of me to Mademoiselle Leblanc. I even succeeded
in persuading myself that she feared arousing her father's suspicions, and that she was now
feigning complete indifference only to draw me the more surely to her arms as soon as the favourable
moment had arrived. As it was impossible to ascertain the truth, I resigned myself to waiting.
But days and nights passed without any explanation being sent, or any secret message bidding
me be patient. She used to come down to the drawing-room for an hour in the morning; in the
evening she was present at dinner, and then would play piquet or chess with her father. During
all this time she was so well watched that I could not exchange a glance with her. For the
rest of the day she remained in her own room--inaccessible. Noticing that I was chafing at
the species of captivity in which I was compelled to live, the chevalier frequently said to me:

"Go and have a chat with Edmee. You can go to her room and tell her that I sent you."

But it was in vain that I knocked. No doubt they had heard me coming and had recognised me
by my heavy shuffling step. The door was never opened to me. I grew desperate, furious.

Here I must interrupt the account of my personal impressions to tell you what was happening
at this time in the luckless Mauprat family. John and Antony had really managed to escape,
and though a very close search had been made for them, they had not as yet been captured. All
their property was seized, and an order issued by the courts for the sale of the Roche-Mauprat
fief. As it proved, however, a sale was unnecessary. M. Hubert de Mauprat put an end to the
proceedings by coming forward as purchaser. The creditors were paid off, and the title-deeds
of Roche-Mauprat passed into his hands.

The little garrison kept by the Mauprats, made up of adventurers of the lowest type, had met
the same fate as their masters. As I have already said, the garrison had long been reduced
to a few individuals. Two or three of these were killed, others took to flight; one only was
captured. This man was tried and made to suffer for all. A serious question arose as to whether
judgment should not also be given against John and Antony de Mauprat by default. There was
apparently no doubt that they had fled; the pond in which Walter's body was found floating
had been drained, yet no traces of the bodies had been discovered. The chevalier, however,
for the sake of the name he bore, strove to prevent the disgrace of an ignominious sentence;
as if such a sentence could have added aught to the horror of the name of Mauprat. He brought
to bear all M. de la Marche's influence and his own (which was very real in the province, especially
on account of his high moral character), to hush up the affair, and he succeeded. As for myself,
though I had certainly had a hand in more than one of my uncles' robberies, there was no thought
of discussing me even at the bar of public opinion. In the storm of anger that my uncles had
aroused people were pleased to consider me simply as a young captive, a victim of their cruelty,
and thoroughly well disposed towards everybody. Certainly, in his generous good nature and
desire to rehabilitate the family, the chevalier greatly exaggerated my merits, and spread
a report everywhere that I was an angel of sweetness and intelligence.

On the day that M. Hubert became purchaser of the estate he entered my room early in the morning
accompanied by his daughter and the abbe. Showing me the documents which bore witness to his
sacrifice (Roche-Mauprat was valued at about two hundred thousand francs), he declared that
I was forthwith going to be put in possession not only of my share in the inheritance, which
was by no means considerable, but also of half the revenue of the property. At the same time,
he said, the whole estate, lands and produce, should be secured to me by his will on one condition,
namely, that I would consent to receive an education suitable to my position.

The chevalier had made all these arrangements in the kindness of his heart and without ostentation,
partly out of gratitude for the service he knew I had rendered Edmee, and partly from family
pride; but he had not expected that I should prove so stubborn on the question of education.
I cannot tell you the irritation I felt at this word "condition"; especially as I thought I
detected in it signs of some plan that Edmee had formed to free herself from her promise to me.

"Uncle," I answered, after listening to all his magnificent offers in absolute silence, "I
thank you for all you wish to do for me; but it is not right that I should avail myself of
your kindness. I have no need of a fortune. A man like myself wants nothing but a little bread,
a gun, a hound, and the first inn he comes to on the edge of the wood. Since you are good enough
to act as my guardian pay me the income on my eighth of the fief and do not ask me to learn
that Latin bosh. A man of birth is sufficiently well educated when he knows how to bring down
a snipe and sign his name. I have no desire to be seigneur of Roche-Mauprat; it is enough to
have been a slave there. You are most kind, and on my honour I love you; but I have very little
love for conditions. I have never done anything from interested motives. I would rather remain
an ignoramus than develop a pretty wit for another's dole. Moreover, I could never consent
to make such a hole in my cousin's fortune; though I know perfectly well that she would willingly
sacrifice a part of her dowry to obtain release from . . ."

Edmee, who until now had remained very pale and apparently heedless of my words, all at once
cast a lightning glance at me and said with an air of unconcern:

"To obtain a release from what, may I ask, Bernard?"

I saw that, in spite of this show of courage, she was very much perturbed; for she broke her
fan while shutting it. I answered her with a look in which the artless malice of the rustic
must have been apparent:

"To obtain release, cousin, from a certain promise you made me at Roche-Mauprat."

She grew paler than ever, and on her face I could see an expression of terror, but ill-disguised
by a smile of contempt.

"What was the promise you made him, Edmee?" asked the chevalier, turning towards her ingenuously.

At the same time the abbe pressed my arm furtively, and I understood that my cousin's confessor
was in possession of the secret.

I shrugged my shoulders; their fears did me an injustice, though they roused my pity.

"She promised me," I replied, with a smile, "that she would always look upon me as a brother
and a friend. Were not those your words, Edmee, and do you think it is possible to make them
good by mere money?"

She rose as if filled with new life, and, holding out her hand to me, said in a voice full
of emotion:

"You are right, Bernard; yours is a noble heart, and I should never forgive myself if I doubted
it for a moment."

I caught sight of a tear on the edge of her eye-lid, and I pressed her hand somewhat too roughly,
no doubt, for she could not restrain a little cry, followed, however, by a charming smile.
The chevalier clasped me to his breast, and the abbe rocked about in his chair and exclaimed
repeatedly:

"How beautiful! How noble! How very beautiful! Ah," he added, "that is something that cannot
be learnt from books," turning to the chevalier. "God writes his words and breathes forth his
spirit upon the hearts of the young."

"You will see," said the chevalier, deeply moved, "that this Mauprat will yet build up the
honour of the family again. And now, my dear Bernard, I will say no more about business. I
know how I ought to act, and you cannot prevent me from taking such steps as I shall think
fit to insure the rehabilitation of my name by yourself. The only true rehabilitation is guaranteed
by your noble sentiments; but there is still another which I know you will not refuse to attempt--the
way to this lies through your talents and intelligence. You will make the effort out of love
for us, I hope. However, we need not talk of this at present. I respect your proud spirit,
and I gladly renew my offers without conditions. And now, abbe, I shall be glad if you will
accompany me to the town to see my lawyer. The carriage is waiting. As for you, children, you
can have lunch together. Come, Bernard, offer your arm to your cousin, or rather, to your sister.
You must acquire some courtesy of manner, since in her case it will be but the expression of
your heart."

"That is true, uncle," I answered, taking hold of Edmee's arm somewhat roughly to lead her
downstairs.

I could feel her trembling; but the pink had returned to her cheeks, and a smile of affection
was playing about her lips.

As soon as we were seated opposite each other at table our happy harmony was chilled in a very
few moments. We both returned to our former state of embarrassment. Had we been alone I should
have got out of the difficulty by one of those abrupt sallies which I knew how to force from
myself when I grew too much ashamed of my bashfulness; but the presence of Saint-Jean, who
was waiting upon us, condemned me to silence on the subject next to my heart. I decided, therefore,
to talk about Patience. I asked her how it came to pass that she was on such good terms with
him, and in what light I ought to look upon the pretended sorcerer. She gave me the main points
in the history of the rustic philosopher, and explained that it was the Abbe Aubert who had
taken her to Gazeau Tower. She had been much struck by the intelligence and wisdom of the stoic
hermit, and used to derive great pleasure from conversation with him. On his side, Patience
had conceived such a friendship for her that for some time he had relaxed his strict habits,
and would frequently pay her a visit when he came to see the abbe.

As you may imagine, she had no little difficulty in making these explanations intelligible
to me. I was very much surprised at the praise she bestowed on Patience, and at the sympathy
she showed for his revolutionary ideas. This was the first time I had heard a peasant spoken
of as a man. Besides, I had hitherto looked upon the sorcerer of Gazeau Tower as very much
below the ordinary peasant, and here was Edmee praising him above most of the men she knew,
and even siding with him against the nobles. From this I drew the comfortable conclusion that
education was not so essential as the chevalier and the abbe would have me believe.

"I can scarcely read any better than Patience," I added, "and I only wish you found as much
pleasure in my society as in his; but it hardly appears so, cousin, for since I came here . . ."

We were then leaving the table, and I was rejoicing at the prospect of being alone with her
at last, so that I might talk more freely, when on going into the drawing-room we found M.
de la Marche there. He had just arrived, and was in the act of entering by the opposite door.
In my heart I wished him at the devil.

M. de la March was one of the fashionable young nobles of the day. Smitten with the new philosophy,
devoted to Voltaire, a great admirer of Franklin, more well-meaning than intelligent, understanding
the oracles less than he desired or pretended to understand them; a pretty poor logician, since
he found his ideas much less excellent and his political hopes much less sweet on the day that
the French nation took it into its head to realize them; for the rest, full of fine sentiments,
believing himself much more sanguine and romantic than he was in reality; rather more faithful
to the prejudices of caste and considerably more sensitive to the opinion of the world than
he flattered and prided himself on being--such was the man. His face was certainly handsome,
but I found it excessively dull; for I had conceived the most ridiculous animosity for him.
His polished manners seemed to me abjectly servile with Edmee. I should have blushed to imitate
them, and yet my sole aim was to surpass him in the little services he rendered her. We went
out into the park. This was very large, and through it ran the Indre, here merely a pretty
stream. During our walk he made himself agreeable in a thousand ways; not a violet did he see
but he must pluck it to offer to my cousin. But, when we arrived at the banks of the stream,
we found that the plank which usually enabled one to cross at this particular spot had been
broken and washed away by the storms of a few days before. Without asking permission, I immediately
took Edmee in my arms, and quietly walked through the stream. The water came up to my waist,
but I carried my cousin at arm's length so securely and skilfully that she did not wet a single
ribbon. M. de la Marche, unwilling to appear more delicate than myself, did not hesitate to
wet his fine clothes and follow me, though with some rather poor efforts the while to force
a laugh. However, though he had not any burden to carry, he several times stumbled over the
stones which covered the bed of the river, and rejoined us only with great difficulty. Edmee
was far from laughing. I believe that this proof of my strength and daring, forced on her in
spite of herself, terrified her as an evidence of the love she had stirred in me. She even
appeared to be annoyed; and, as I set her down gently on the bank, said:

"Bernard, I must request you never to play such a prank again."

"That is all very well," I said; "you would not be angry if it were the other fellow."

"He would not think of doing such a thing," she replied.

"I quite believe it," I answered; "he would take very good care of that. Just look at the chap.
. . . And I--I did not ruffle a hair of your head. He is very good at picking violets; but,
take my word for it, in a case of danger, don't make him your first choice."

M. de la Marche paid me great compliments on this exploit. I had hoped that he would be jealous;
he did not even appear to dream of it, but rather made merry over the pitiable state of his
toilet. The day was excessively hot, and we were quite dry before the end of the walk. Edmee,
however, remained sad and pensive. It seemed to me that she was making an effort to show me
as much friendship as at luncheon. This affected me considerably; for I was not only enamoured
of her--I loved her. I could not make the distinction then, but both feelings were in me--passion
and tenderness.

The chevalier and the abbe returned in time for dinner. They conversed in a low voice with
M. de la Marche about the settlement of my affairs, and, from the few words which I could not
help overhearing, I gathered that they had just secured my future on the bright lines they
had laid before me in the morning. I was too shy and proud to express my simple thanks. This
generosity perplexed me; I could not understand it, and I almost suspected that it was a trap
they were preparing to separate me from my cousin. I did not realize the advantage of a fortune.
Mine were not the wants of a civilized being; and the prejudices of rank were with me a point
of honour, and by no means a social vanity. Seeing that they did not speak to me openly, I
played the somewhat ungracious part of feigning complete ignorance.

Edmee grew more and more melancholy. I noticed that her eyes rested now on M. de la Marche,
now on her father, with a vague uneasiness. Whenever I spoke to her, or even raised my voice
in addressing others, she would start and then knit her brows slightly, as if my voice had
caused her physical pain. She retired immediately after dinner. Her father followed her with
evident anxiety.

"Have you not noticed," said the abbe, turning to M. de la Marche, as soon as they had left
the room, "that Mademoiselle de Mauprat has very much changed of late?"

"She has grown thinner," answered the lieutenant-general; "but in my opinion she is only the
more beautiful for that."

"Yes; but I fear she may be more seriously ill than she owns," replied the abbe. "Her temperament
seems no less changed than her face; she has grown quite sad."

"Sad? Why, I don't think I ever saw her so gay as she was this morning; don't you agree with
me, Monsieur Bernard? It was only after our walk that she complained of a slight headache."

"I assure you that she is really sad," rejoined the abbe. "Nowadays, when she is gay, her gaiety
is excessive; at such a time there seems to be something strange and forced about her which
is quite foreign to her usual manner. Then the next minute she relapses into a state of melancholy,
which I never noticed before the famous night in the forest. You may be certain that night
was a terrible experience."

"True, she was obliged to witness a frightful scene at Gazeau Tower," said M. de la Marche;
"and then she must have been very much exhausted and frightened when her horse bolted from
the field and galloped right through the forest. Yet her pluck is so remarkable that . . .
What do you think, my dear Monsieur Bernard? When you met her in the forest, did she seem very
frightened?"

"In the forest?" I said. "I did not meet her in the forest at all."

"No; it was in Varenne that you met her, wasn't it?"

The abbe hastened to intervene. . . . "By-the-bye, Monsieur Bernard, can you spare me a minute
to talk over a little matter connected with your property at . . ."

Hereupon he drew me out of the drawing-room, and said in a low voice:

"There is no question of business; I only want to beg of you not to let a single soul, not
even M. de la Marche, suspect that Mademoiselle de Mauprat was at Roche-Mauprat for the fraction
of a second."

"And why?" I asked. "Was she not under my protection there? Did she not leave it pure, thanks
to me? Must it not be well known to the neighbourhood that she passed two hours there?"

"At present no one knows," he answered. "At the very moment she left it, Roche-Mauprat fell
before the attack of the police, and not one of its inmates will return from the grave or from
exile to proclaim the fact. When you know the world better, you will understand how important
it is for the reputation of a young lady that none should have reason to suppose that even
a shadow of danger has fallen upon her honour. Meanwhile, I implore you, in the name of her
father, in the name of the affection for her which you expressed this morning in so noble and
touching a manner . . ."

"You are very clever, Monsieur l'Abbe," I said, interrupting him. "All your words have a hidden
meaning which I can grasp perfectly well, clown as I am. Tell my cousin that she may set her
mind at ease. I have nothing to say against her virtue, that is very certain; and I trust I
am not capable of spoiling the marriage she desires. Tell her that I claim but one thing of
her, the fulfilment of that promise of friendship which she made me at Roche-Mauprat."

"In your eyes, then, that promise has a peculiar solemnity?" said the abbe. "If so, what grounds
for distrusting it have you?"

I looked at him fixedly, and as he appeared very much agitated, I took a pleasure in keeping
him on the rack, hoping that he would repeat my words to Edmee.

"None," I answered. "Only I observe that you are afraid that M. de la Marche may break off
the marriage, if he happens to hear of the adventure at Roche-Mauprat. If the gentleman is
capable of suspecting Edmee, and of grossly insulting her on the eve of his wedding, it seems
to me that there is one very simple means of mending matters."

"What would you suggest?"

"Why, to challenge him and kill him."

"I trust you will do all you can to spare the venerable M. Hubert the necessity of facing such
a hideous danger."

"I will spare him this and many others by taking upon myself to avenge my cousin. In truth,
this is my right, Monsieur l'Abbe. I know the duties of a gentleman quite as well as if I had
learnt Latin. You may tell her this from me. Let her sleep in peace. I will keep silence, and
if that is useless I will fight."

"But, Bernard," replied the abbe in a gentle, insinuating tone, "have you thought of your cousin's
affection for M. de la Marche?"

"All the more reason that I should fight him," I cried, in a fit of anger.

And I turned my back on him abruptly.

The abbe retailed the whole of our conversation to the penitent. The part that the worthy priest
had to play was very embarrassing. Under the seal of confession he had been intrusted with
a secret to which in his conversations with me he could make only indirect allusions, to bring
me to understand that my pertinacity was a crime, and that the only honourable course was to
yield. He hoped too much of me. Virtue such as this was beyond my power, and equally beyond
my understanding.

X

A few days passed in apparent calm. Edmee said she was unwell, and rarely quitted her room.
M. de la Marche called nearly every day, his chateau being only a short distance off. My dislike
for him grew stronger and stronger in spite of all the politeness he showed me. I understood
nothing whatever of his dabblings in philosophy, and I opposed all his opinions with the grossest
prejudices and expressions at my command. What consoled me in a measure for my secret sufferings
was to see that he was no more admitted than myself to Edmee's rooms.

For a week the sole event of note was that Patience took up his abode in a hut near the chateau.
Ever since the Abbe Aubert had found a refuge from ecclesiastical persecution under the chevalier's
roof, he had no longer been obliged to arrange secret meetings with the hermit. He had, therefore,
strongly urged him to give up his dwelling in the forest and to come nearer to himself. Patience
had needed a great deal of persuasion. Long years of solitude had so attached him to his Gazeau
Tower that he hesitated to desert it for the society of his friend. Besides, he declared that
the abbe would assuredly be corrupted with commerce with the great; that soon, unknown to himself,
he would come under the influence of the old ideas, and that his zeal for the sacred cause
would grow cold. It is true that Edmee had won Patience's heart, and that, in offering him
a little cottage belonging to her father situated in a picturesque ravine near the park gate,
she had gone to work with such grace and delicacy that not even his techy pride could feel
wounded. In fact, it was to conclude these important negotiations that the abbe had betaken
himself to Gazeau Tower with Marcasse on that very evening when Edmee and myself sought shelter
there. The terrible scene which followed our arrival put an end to any irresolution still left
in Patience. Inclined to the Pythagorean doctrines, he had a horror of all bloodshed. The death
of a deer drew tears from him, as from Shakespeare's Jacques; still less could he bear to contemplate
the murder of a human being, and the instant that Gazeau Tower had served as the scene of two
tragic deaths, it stood defiled in his eyes, and nothing could have induced him to pass another
night there. He followed us to Sainte-Severe, and soon allowed his philosophical scruples to
be overcome by Edmee's persuasive powers. The little cottage which he was prevailed on to accept
was humble enough not to make him blush with shame at a too palpable compromise with civilization;
and, though the solitude he found there was less perfect than at Gazeau Tower, the frequent
visits of the abbe and of Edmee could hardly have given him a right to complain.

Here the narrator interrupted his story again to expatiate on the development of Mademoiselle
de Mauprat's character.

Edmee, hidden away in her modest obscurity, was--and, believe me, I do not speak from bias--one
of the most perfect women to be found in France. Had she desired or been compelled to make
herself known to the world, she would assuredly have been famous and extolled beyond all her
sex. But she found her happiness in her own family, and the sweetest simplicity crowned her
mental powers and lofty virtues. She was ignorant of her worth, as I myself was at that time,
when, brutelike, I saw only with the eyes of the body, and believed I loved her only because
she was beautiful. It should be said, too, that her fiance, M. de la Marche, understood her
but little better. He had developed the weakly mind with which he was endowed in the frigid
school of Voltaire and Helvetius. Edmee had fired her vast intellect with the burning declamations
of Jean Jacques. A day came when I could understand her--the day when M. de la Marche could
have understood her would never have come.

Edmee, deprived of her mother from the very cradle, and left to her young devices by a father
full of confidence and careless good nature, had shaped her character almost alone. The Abbe
Aubert, who had confirmed her, had by no means forbidden her to read the philosophers by whom
he himself had been lured from the paths of orthodoxy. Finding no one to oppose her ideas or
even to discuss them--for her father, who idolized her, allowed himself to be led wherever
she wished--Edmee had drawn support from two sources apparently very antagonistic: the philosophy
which was preparing the downfall of Christianity, and Christianity which was proscribing the
spirit of inquiry. To account for this contradiction, you must recall what I told you about
the effect produced on the Abbe Aubert by the Profession de Foi du Vicaire Savoyard. Moreover,
you must be aware that, in poetic souls, mysticism and doubt often reign side by side. Jean
Jacques himself furnishes a striking example of this, and you know what sympathies he stirred
among priests and nobles, even when he was chastising them so unmercifully. What miracles may
not conviction work when helped by sublime eloquence! Edmee had drunk of this living fount
with all the eagerness of an ardent soul. In her rare visits to Paris she had sought for spirits
in sympathy with her own. There, however, she had found so many shades of opinion, so little
harmony, and--despite the prevailing fashion--so many ineradicable prejudices, that she had
returned with a yet deeper love to her solitude and her poetic reveries under the old oaks
in the park. She would even then speak of her illusions, and--with a good sense beyond her
years, perhaps, too, beyond her sex--she refused all opportunities of direct intercourse with
the philosophers whose writings made up her intellectual life.

"I am somewhat of a Sybarite," she would say with a smile. "I would rather have a bouquet of
roses arranged for me in a vase in the early morning, than go and gather them myself from out
their thorns in the heat of the sun."

As a fact, this remark about her sybaritism was only a jest. Brought up in the country, she
was strong, active, brave, and full of life. To all her charms of delicate beauty she united
the energy of physical and moral health. She was the proud-spirited and fearless girl, no less
than the sweet and affable mistress of the house. I often found her haughty and disdainful.
Patience and the poor of the district never found her anything but modest and good-natured.

Edmee loved the poets almost as much as the transcendental philosophers. In her walks she always
carried a book in her hand. One day when she had taken Tasso with her she met Patience, who,
as was his wont, inquired minutely into both author and subject. Edmee thereupon had to give
him an account of the Crusades. This was not the most difficult part of her task. Thanks to
the stores of information derived from the abbe and to his prodigious memory for facts, Patience
had a passable knowledge of the outlines of universal history. But what he had great trouble
in grasping was the connection and difference between epic poetry and history. At first he
was indignant at the inventions of the poets, and declared that such impostures ought never
to have been allowed. Then, when he had realized that epic poetry, far from leading generations
into error, only raised heroic deeds to vaster proportions and a more enduring glory, he asked
how it was that all important events had not been sung by the bards, and why the history of
man had not been embodied in a popular form capable of impressing itself on every mind without
the help of letters. He begged Edmee to explain to him a stanza of Jerusalem Delivered. As
he took a fancy to it, she read him a canto in French. A few days later she read him another,
and soon Patience knew the whole poem. He rejoiced to hear that the heroic tale was popular
in Italy; and, bringing together his recollections of it, endeavoured to give them an abridged
form in rude prose, but he had no memory for words. Roused by his vivid impressions, he would
call up a thousand mighty images before his eyes. He would give utterance to them in improvisations
wherein his genius triumphed over the uncouthness of his language, but he could never repeat
what he had once said. One would have had to take it down from his dictation, and even that
would have been of no use to him; for, supposing he had managed to read it, his memory, accustomed
to occupy itself solely with thoughts, had never been able to retain any fragment whatever
in its precise words. And yet he was fond of quoting, and at times his language was almost
biblical. Beyond, however, certain expressions that he loved, and a number of short sentences
that he found means to make his own, he remembered nothing of the pages which had been read
to him so often, and he always listened to them again with the same emotion as at first. It
was a veritable pleasure to watch the effect of beautiful poetry on this powerful intellect.
Little by little the abbe, Edmee, and subsequently I myself, managed to familiarize him with
Homer and Dante. He was so struck by the various incidents in the Divine Comedy that he could
give an analysis of the poem from beginning to end, without forgetting or misplacing the slightest
detail in the journey, the encounters, and the emotions of the poet. There, however, his power
ended. If he essayed to repeat some of the phrases which had so charmed him when they were
read, he flung forth a mass of metaphors and images which savoured of delirium. This initiation
into the wonders of poetry marked an epoch in the life of Patience. In the realm of fancy it
supplied the action wanting to his real life. In his magic mirror he beheld gigantic combats
between heroes ten cubits high; he understood love, which he himself had never known; he fought,
he loved, he conquered; he enlightened nations, gave peace to the world, redressed the wrongs
of mankind, and raised up temples to the mighty spirit of the universe. He saw in the starry
firmament all the gods of Olympus, the fathers of primitive humanity. In the constellations
he read the story of the golden age, and of the ages of brass; in the winter wind he heard
the songs of Morven, and in the storm-clouds he bowed to the ghosts of Fingal and Comala.

"Before I knew the poets," he said towards the end of his life, "I was a man lacking in one
of the senses. I could see plainly that this sense was necessary, since there were so many
things calling for its operation. In my solitary walks at night I used to feel a strange uneasiness;
I used to wonder why I could not sleep; why I should find such pleasure in gazing upon the
stars that I could not tear myself from their presence; why my heart should suddenly beat with
joy on seeing certain colours, or grow sad even to tears on hearing certain sounds. At times
I was so alarmed on comparing my continual agitation with the indifference of other men of
my class that I even began to imagine that I was mad. But I soon consoled myself with the reflection
that such madness was sweet, and I would rather have ceased to exist than be cured of it. Now
that I know these things have been thought beautiful in all times and by all intelligent beings,
I understand what they are, and how they are useful to man. I find joy in the thought that
there is not a flower, not a colour, not a breath of air, which has not absorbed the minds
and stirred the hearts of other men till it has received a name sacred among all peoples. Since
I have learnt that it is allowed to man, without degrading his reason, to people the universe
and interpret it by his dreams, I live wholly in the contemplation of the universe; and when
the sight of the misery and crime in the world bruises my heart and shakes my reason, I fall
back upon my dreams. I say to myself that, since all men are united in their love of the works
of God, some day they will also be united in their love of one another. I imagine that education
grows more and more perfect from father to son. It may be that I am the first untutored man
who has divined truths of which no glimpse was given him from without. It may be, too, that
many others before myself have been perplexed by the workings of their hearts and brains and
have died without ever finding an answer to the riddle." "Ah, we poor folk," added Patience,
"we are never forbidden excess in labour, or in wine, or in any of the debauches which may
destroy our minds. There are some people who pay dearly for the work of our arms, so that the
poor, in their eagerness to satisfy the wants of their families, may work beyond their strength.
There are taverns and other places more dangerous still, from which, so it is said, the government
draws a good profit; and there are priests, too, who get up in their pulpits to tell us what
we owe to the lord of our village, but never what the lord owes to us. Nowhere is there a school
where they teach us our real rights; where they show us how to distinguish our true and decent
wants from the shameful and fatal ones; where, in short, they tell us what we can and ought
to think about when we have borne the burden and heat of the day for the profit of others,
and are sitting in the evening at the door of our huts, gazing on the red stars as they come
out on the horizon."

Thus would Patience reason; and, believe me, in translating his words into our conventional
language, I am robbing them of all their grace, all their fire, and all their vigour. But who
could repeat the exact words of Patience? His was a language used by none but himself; it was
a mixture of the limited, though forcible, vocabulary of the peasants and of the boldest metaphors
of the poets, whose poetic turns he would often make bolder still. To this mixed idiom his
sympathetic mind gave order and logic. An incredible wealth of thought made up for the brevity
of the phrases that clothed it. You should have seen how desperately his will and convictions
strove to overcome the impotence of his language; any other than he would have failed to come
out of the struggle with honour. And I assure you that any one capable of something more serious
than laughing at his solecisms and audacities of phrase, would have found in this man material
for the most important studies on the development of the human mind, and an incentive to the
most tender admiration for primitive moral beauty.

When, subsequently, I came to understand Patience thoroughly, I found a bond of sympathy with
him in my own exceptional destiny. Like him, I had been without education; like him, I had
sought outside myself for an explanation of my being--just as one seeks the answer to a riddle.
Thanks to the accidents of my birth and fortune, I had arrived at complete development, while
Patience, to the hour of his death, remained groping in the darkness of an ignorance from which
he neither would nor could emerge. To me, however, this was only an additional reason for recognising
the superiority of that powerful nature which held its course more boldly by the feeble light
of instinct, than I myself by all the brilliant lights of knowledge; and which, moreover, had
not had a single evil inclination to subdue, while I had had all that a man may have.

At the time, however, at which I must take up my story, Patience was still, in my eyes, merely
a grotesque character, an object of amusement for Edmee, and of kindly compassion for the Abbe
Aubert. When they spoke to me about him in a serious tone, I no longer understood them, and
I imagined they took this subject as a sort of text whereon to build a parable proving to me
the advantages of education, the necessity of devoting myself to study early in life, and the
futility of regrets in after years.

Yet this did not prevent me from prowling about the copses about his new abode, for I had seen
Edmee crossing the park in that direction, and I hoped that if I took her by surprise as she
was returning, I should get a conversation with her. But she was always accompanied by the
abbe, and sometimes even by her father, and if she remained alone with the old peasant, he
would escort her to the chateau afterwards. Frequently I have concealed myself in the foliage
of a giant yew-tree, which spread out its monstrous shoots and drooping branches to within
a few yards of the cottage, and have seen Edmee sitting at the door with a book in her hand
while Patience was listening with his arms folded and his head sunk on his breast, as though
he were overwhelmed by the effort of attention. At that time I imagined that Edmee was trying
to teach him to read, and thought her mad to persist in attempting an impossible education.
But how beautiful she seemed in the light of the setting sun, beneath the yellowing vine leaves
that overhung the cottage door! I used to gaze on her and tell myself that she belonged to
me, and vow never to yield to any force or persuasion which should endeavour to make me renounce
my claim.

For some days my agony of mind had been intense. My only method of escaping from it had been
to drink heavily at supper, so that I might be almost stupefied at the hour, for me so painful
and so galling, when she would leave the drawing-room after kissing her father, giving her
hand to M. de la Marche, and saying as she passed by me, "Good-night, Bernard," in a tone which
seemed to say, "To-day has ended like yesterday, and to-morrow will end like to-day."

In vain would I go and sit in the arm-chair nearest her door, so that she could not pass without
at least her dress brushing against me; this was all I ever got from her. I would not put out
my hand to beg her own, for she might have given it with an air of unconcern, and I verily
believe I should have crushed it in my anger.

Thanks to my large libations at supper, I generally succeeded in besotting myself, silently
and sadly. I then used to sink into my favourite arm-chair and remain there, sullen and drowsy,
until the fumes of the wine had passed away, and I could go and air my wild dreams and sinister
plans in the park.

None seemed to notice this gross habit of mine. They showed me such kindness and indulgence
in the family that they seemed afraid to express disapproval, however much I deserved it. Nevertheless,
they were well aware of my shameful passion for wine, and the abbe informed Edmee of it. One
evening at supper she looked at me fixedly several times and with a strange expression. I stared
at her in return, hoping that she would say something to provoke me, but we got no further
than an exchange of malevolent glances. On leaving the table she whispered to me very quickly,
and in an imperious tone:

"Break yourself of this drinking, and pay attention to what the abbe has to say to you."

This order and tone of authority, so far from filling me with hope, seemed to me so revolting
that all my timidity vanished in a moment. I waited for the hour when she usually went up to
her room and, going out a little before her, took up my position on the stairs.

"Do you think," I said to her when she appeared, "that I am the dupe of your lies, and that
I have not seen perfectly, during the month I have been here, without your speaking a word
to me, that you are merely fooling me, as if I were a booby? You lied to me and now you despise
me because I was honest enough to believe your word."

"Bernard," she said, in a cold tone, "this is neither the time nor the place for an explanation."

"Oh, I know well enough," I replied, "that, according to you, it will never be the time or
the place. But I shall manage to find both, do not fear. You said that you loved me. You threw
your arms about my neck and said, as you kissed me--yes, here, I can still feel your lips on
my cheeks: 'Save me, and I swear on the gospel, on my honour, by the memory of my mother and
your own, that I will be yours.' I can see through it; you said that because you were afraid
that I should use my strength, and now you avoid me because you are afraid I shall claim my
right. But you will gain nothing by it. I swear that you shall not trifle with me long."

"I will never be yours," she replied, with a coldness which was becoming more and more icy,
"if you do not make some change in your language, and manners, and feelings. In your present
state I certainly do not fear you. When you appeared to me good and generous, I might have
yielded to you, half from fear and half from affection. But from the moment I cease to care
for you, I also cease to be afraid of you. Improve your manners, improve your mind, and we
will see."

"Very good," I said, "that is a promise I can understand. I will act on it, and if I cannot
be happy, I will have my revenge."

"Take your revenge as much as you please," she said. "That will only make me despise you."

So saying, she drew from her bosom a piece of paper, and burnt it in the flame of her candle.

"What are you doing?" I exclaimed.

"I am burning a letter I had written to you," she answered. "I wanted to make you listen to
reason, but it is quite useless; one cannot reason with brutes."

"Give me that letter at once," I cried, rushing at her to seize the burning paper.

But she withdrew it quickly and, fearlessly extinguishing it in her hand, threw the candle
at my feet and fled in the darkness. I ran after her, but in vain. She was in her room before
I could get there, and had slammed the door and drawn the bolts. I could hear the voice of
Mademoiselle Leblanc asking her young mistress the cause of her fright.

"It is nothing," replied Edmee's trembling voice, "nothing but a joke."

I went into the garden, and strode up and down the walks at a furious rate. My anger gave place
to the most profound melancholy. Edmee, proud and daring, seemed to me more desirable than
ever. It is the nature of all desire to be excited and nourished by opposition. I felt that
I had offended her, and that she did not love me, that perhaps she would never love me; and,
without abandoning my criminal resolution to make her mine by force, I gave way to grief at
the thought of her hatred of me. I went and leaned upon a gloomy old wall which happened to
be near, and, burying my face in my hands, I broke into heart-rending sobs. My sturdy breast
heaved convulsively, but tears would not bring the relief I longed for. I could have roared
in my anguish, and I had to bite my handkerchief to prevent myself from yielding to the temptation.
The weird noise of my stifled sobs attracted the attention of some one who was praying in the
little chapel on the other side of the wall which I had chanced to lean against. A Gothic window,
with its stone mullions surmounted by a trefoil, was exactly on a level with my head.

"Who is there?" asked some one, and I could distinguish a pale face in the slanting rays of
the moon which was just rising.

It was Edmee. On recognising her I was about to move away, but she passed her beautiful arm
between the mullions, and held me back by the collar of my jacket, saying:

"Why are you crying, Bernard?"

I yielded to her gentle violence, half ashamed at having betrayed my weakness, and half enchanted
at finding that Edmee was not unmoved by it.

"What are you grieved at?" she continued. "What can draw such bitter tears from you?"

"You despise me; you hate me; and you ask why I am in pain, why I am angry!"

"It is anger, then, that makes you weep?" she said, drawing back her arm.

"Yes; anger or something else," I replied.

"But what else?" she asked.

"I can't say; probably grief, as you suggest. The truth is my life here is unbearable; my heart
is breaking. I must leave you, Edmee, and go and live in the middle of the woods. I cannot
stay here any longer."

"Why is life unbearable? Explain yourself, Bernard. Now is our opportunity for an explanation."

"Yes, with a wall between us. I can understand that you are not afraid of me now."

"And yet it seems to me that I am only showing an interest in you; and was I not as affectionate
an hour ago when there was no wall between us?"

"I begin to see why you are fearless, Edmee; you always find some means of avoiding people,
or of winning them over with pretty words. Ah, they were right when they told me that all women
are false, and that I must love none of them."

"And who told you that? Your Uncle John, I suppose, or your Uncle Walter; or was it your grandfather,
Tristan?"

"You can jeer--jeer at me as much as you like. It is not my fault that I was brought up by
them. There were times, however, when they spoke the truth."

"Bernard, would you like me to tell you why they thought women false?"

"Yes, tell me."

"Because they were brutes and tyrants to creatures weaker than themselves. Whenever one makes
one's self feared one runs the risk of being deceived. In your childhood, when John used to
beat you, did you never try to escape his brutal punishment by disguising your little faults?"

"I did; that was my only resource."

"You can understand, then, that deception is, if not the right, at least the resource of the
oppressed."

"I understand that I love you, and in that at any rate there can be no excuse for your deceiving
me."

"And who says that I have deceived you?"

"But you have; you said you loved me; you did not love me."

"I loved you, because at a time when you were wavering between detestable principles and the
impulses of a generous heart I saw that you were inclining towards justice and honesty. And
I love you now, because I see that you are triumphing over these vile principles, and that
your evil inspirations are followed by tears of honest regret. This I say before God, with
my hand on my heart, at a time when I can see your real self. There are other times when you
appear to me so below yourself that I no longer recognise you and I think I no longer love
you. It rests with you, Bernard, to free me from all doubts, either about you or myself."

"And what must I do?"

"You must amend your bad habits, open your ears to good counsel and your heart to the precepts
of morality. You are a savage, Bernard; and, believe me, it is neither your awkwardness in
making a bow, nor your inability to turn a compliment that shocks me. On the contrary, this
roughness of manner would be a very great charm in my eyes, if only there were some great ideas
and noble feelings beneath it. But your ideas and your feelings are like your manners, that
is what I cannot endure. I know it is not your fault, and if I only saw you resolute to improve
I should love you as much for your defects as for your qualities. Compassion brings affection
in its train. But I do not love evil, I never loved it; and, if you cultivate it in yourself
instead of uprooting it, I can never love you. Do you understand me?"

"No."

"What, no!"

"No, I say. I am not aware that there is any evil in me. If you are not displeased at the lack
of grace in my legs, or the lack of whiteness in my hands, or the lack of elegance in my words,
I fail to see what you find to hate in me. From my childhood I have had to listen to evil precepts,
but I have not accepted them. I have never considered it permissible to do a bad deed; or,
at least, I have never found it pleasurable. If I have done wrong, it is because I have been
forced to do it. I have always detested my uncles and their ways. I do not like to see others
suffer; I do not rob a fellow-creature; I despise money, of which they made a god at Roche-Mauprat;
I know how to keep sober, and, though I am fond of wine, I would drink water all my life if,
like my uncles, I had to shed blood to get a good supper. Yet I fought for them; yet I drank
with them. How could I do otherwise? But now, when I am my own master, what harm am I doing?
Does your abbe, who is always prating of virtue, take me for a murderer or a thief? Come, Edmee,
confess now; you know well enough that I am an honest man; you do not really think me wicked;
but I am displeasing to you because I am not clever, and you like M. de la Marche because he
has a knack of making unmeaning speeches which I should blush to utter."

"And if, to be pleasing to me," she said with a smile, after listening most attentively, and
without withdrawing her hand which I had taken through the bars, "if, in order to be preferred
to M. de la Marche, it were necessary to acquire more wit, as you say, would you not try?"

"I don't know," I replied, after hesitating a moment; "perhaps I should be fool enough; for
the power you have over me is more than I can understand; but it would be a sorry piece of
cowardice and a great folly."

"Why, Bernard?"

"Because a woman who could love a man, not for his honest heart, but for his pretty wit, would
be hardly worth the pains I should have to take; at least so it seems to me."

She remained silent in her turn, and then said to me as she pressed my hand:

"You have much more sense and wit than one might think. And since you force me to be quite
frank with you, I will own that, as you now are and even should you never change, I have an
esteem and an affection for you which will last as long as my life. Rest assured of that, Bernard,
whatever I may say in a moment of anger. You know I have a quick temper--that runs in the family.
The blood of the Mauprats will never flow as smoothly as other people's. Have a care for my
pride, then, you know so well what pride is, and do not ever presume upon rights you have acquired.
Affection cannot be commanded; it must be implored or inspired. Act so that I may always love
you; never tell me that I am forced to love you."

"That is reasonable enough," I answered; "but why do you sometimes speak to me as if I were
forced to obey you? Why, for instance, this evening did you forbid me to drink and order me
to study?"

"Because if one cannot command affection which does not exist, one can at least command affection
which does exist; and it is because I am sure yours exists that I commanded it."

"Good!" I cried, in a transport of joy; "I have a right then to order yours also, since you
have told me that it certainly exists. . . . Edmee, I order you to kiss me."

"Let go, Bernard!" she cried; "you are breaking my arm. Look, you have scraped it against the
bars."

"Why have you intrenched yourself against me?" I said, putting my lips to the little scratch
I had made on her arm. "Ah, woe is me! Confound the bars! Edmee, if you would only bend your
head down I should be able to kiss you . . . kiss you as my sister. Edmee, what are you afraid of?"

"My good Bernard," she replied, "in the world in which I live one does not kiss even a sister,
and nowhere does one kiss in secret. I will kiss you every day before my father, if you like;
but never here."

"You will never kiss me!" I cried, relapsing into my usual passion. "What of your promise?
What of my rights?"

"If we marry," she said, in an embarrassed tone, "when you have received the education I implore
you to receive, . . ."

"Death of my life! Is this a jest? Is there any question of marriage between us? None at all.
I don't want your fortune, as I have told you."

"My fortune and yours are one," she replied. "Bernard, between near relations as we are, mine
and thine are words without meaning. I should never suspect you of being mercenary. I know
that you love me, that you will work to give me proof of this, and that a day will come when
your love will no longer make me fear, because I shall be able to accept it in the face of
heaven and earth."

"If that is your idea," I replied, completely drawn away from my wild passion by the new turn
she was giving to my thoughts, "my position is very different; but, to tell you the truth,
I must reflect on this; I had not realized that this was your meaning."

"And how should I have meant otherwise?" she answered. "Is not a woman dishonoured by giving
herself to a man who is not her husband? I do not wish to dishonour myself; and, since you
love me, you would not wish it either. You would not do me an irreparable wrong. If such were
your intention you would be my deadliest enemy."

"Stay, Edmee, stay!" I answered. "I can tell you nothing about my intentions in regard to you,
for I have never had any very definite. I have felt nothing but wild desires, nor have I ever
thought of you without going mad. You wish me to marry you? But why--why?"

"Because a girl who respects herself cannot be any man's except with the thought, with the
intention, with the certainty of being his forever. Do you not know that?"

"There are so many things I do not know or have never thought of."

"Education will teach you, Bernard, what you ought to think about the things which must concern
you--about your position, your duties, your feelings. At present you see but dimly into your
heart and conscience. And I, who am accustomed to question myself on all subjects and to discipline
my life, how can I take for master a man governed by instinct and guided by chance?"

"For master! For husband! Yes, I understand that you cannot surrender your whole life to an
animal such as myself . . . but that is what I have never asked of you. No, I tremble to think
of it."

"And yet, Bernard, you must think of it. Think of it frequently, and when you have done so
you will realize the necessity of following my advice, and of bringing your mind into harmony
with the new life upon which you have entered since quitting Roche-Mauprat. When you have perceived
this necessity you must tell me, and then we will make several necessary resolutions."

She withdrew her hand from mine quickly, and I fancy she bade me good-night; but this I did
not hear. I stood buried in my thoughts, and when I raised my head to speak to her she was
no longer there. I went into the chapel, but she had returned to her room by an upper gallery
which communicated with her apartments.

I went back into the garden, walked far into the park, and remained there all night. This conversation
with Edmee had opened a new world to me. Hitherto I had not ceased to be the Roche-Mauprat
man, nor had I ever contemplated that it was possible or desirable to cease to be so. Except
for some habits which had changed with circumstances, I had never moved out of the narrow circle
of my old thoughts. I felt annoyed that these new surroundings of mine should have any real
power over me, and I secretly braced my will so that I should not be humbled. Such was my perseverance
and strength of character that I believed nothing would ever have driven me from my intrenchment
of obstinacy, had not Edmee's influence been brought to bear upon me. The vulgar comforts of
life, the satisfactions of luxury, had no attraction for me beyond their novelty. Bodily repose
was a burden to me, and the calm that reigned in this house, so full of order and silence,
would have been unbearable, had not Edmee's presence and the tumult of my own desires communicated
to it some of my disorder, and peopled it with some of my visions. Never for a single moment
had I desired to become the head of this house, the possessor of this property; and it was
with genuine pleasure that I had just heard Edmee do justice to my disinterestedness. The thought
of coupling two ends so entirely distinct as my passion and my interests was still more repugnant
to me. I roamed about the park a prey to a thousand doubts, and then wandered into the open
country unconsciously. It was a glorious night. The full moon was pouring down floods of soft
light upon the ploughed lands, all parched by the heat of the sun. Thirsty plants were straightening
their bowed stems--each leaf seemed to be drinking in through all its pores all the dewy freshness
of the night. I, too, began to feel a soothing influence at work. My heart was still beating
violently, but regularly. I was filled with a vague hope; the image of Edmee floated before
me on the paths through the meadows, and no longer stirred the wild agonies and frenzied desires
which had been devouring me since the night I first beheld her.

I was crossing a spot where the green stretches of pasture were here and there broken by clumps
of young trees. Huge oxen with almost white skins were lying in the short grass, motionless,
as if plunged in peaceful thought. Hills sloped gently up to the horizon, and their velvety
contours seemed to ripple in the bright rays of the moon. For the first time in my life I realized
something of the voluptuous beauty and divine effluence of the night. I felt the magic touch
of some unknown bliss. It seemed that for the first time in my life I was looking on moon and
meadows and hills. I remembered hearing Edmee say that nothing our eyes can behold is more
lovely than Nature; and I was astonished that I had never felt this before. Now and them I
was on the point of throwing myself on my knees and praying to God: but I feared that I should
not know how to speak to Him, and that I might offend Him by praying badly. Shall I confess
to you a singular fancy that came upon me, a childish revelation, as it were, of poetic love
from out of the chaos of my ignorance? The moon was lighting up everything so plainly that
I could distinguish the tiniest flowers in the grass. A little meadow daisy seemed to me so
beautiful with its golden calyx full of diamonds of dew and its white collaret fringed with
purple, that I plucked it, and covered it with kisses, and cried in a sort of delirious intoxication:

"It is you, Edmee! Yes, it is you! Ah, you no longer shun me!"

But what was my confusion when, on rising, I found there had been a witness of my folly. Patience
was standing before me.

I was so angry at having been surprised in such a fit of extravagance that, from a remnant
of the Hamstringer instinct, I immediately felt for a knife in my belt; but neither belt nor
knife was there. My silk waistcoat with its pocket reminded me that I was doomed to cut no
more throats. Patience smiled.

"Well, well! What is the matter?" said the anchorite, in a calm and kindly tone. "Do you imagine
that I don't know perfectly well how things stand? I am not so simple but that I can reason;
I am not so old but that I can see. Who is it that makes the branches of my yew shake whenever
the holy maiden is sitting at my door? Who is it that follows us like a young wolf with measured
steps through the copse when I take the lovely child to her father? And what harm is there
in it? You are both young; you are both handsome; you are of the same family; and, if you chose,
you might become a noble and honest man as she is a noble and honest girl."

All my wrath had vanished as I listened to Patience speaking of Edmee. I had such a vast longing
to talk about her that I would even have been willing to have heard evil spoken of her, for
the sole pleasure of hearing her name pronounced. I continued my walk by the side of Patience.
The old man was tramping through the dew with bare feet. It should be mentioned, however, that
his feet had long been unacquainted with any covering and had attained a degree of callosity
that rendered them proof against anything. His only garments were a pair of blue canvas breeches
which, in the absence of braces, hung loosely from his hips, and a coarse shirt. He could not
endure any constraint in his clothes; and his skin, hardened by exposure, was sensitive to
neither heat nor cold. Even when over eighty he was accustomed to go bareheaded in the broiling
sun and with half-open shirt in the winter blasts. Since Edmee had seen to his wants he had
attained a certain cleanliness. Nevertheless, in the disorder of his toilet and his hatred
of everything that passed the bounds of the strictest necessity (though he could not have been
charged with immodesty, which had always been odious to him), the cynic of the old days was
still apparent. His beard was shining like silver. His bald skull was so polished that the
moon was reflected in it as in water. He walked slowly, with his hands behind his back and
his head raised, like a man who is surveying his empire. But most frequently his glances were
thrown skywards, and he interrupted his conversation to point to the starry vault and exclaim:

"Look at that; look how beautiful it is!"

He is the only peasant I have ever known to admire the sky; or, at least, he is the only one
I have ever seen who was conscious of his admiration.

"Why, Master Patience," I said to him, "do you think I might be an honest man if I chose? Do
you think that I am not one already?"

"Oh, do not be angry," he answered. "Patience is privileged to say anything. Is he not the
fool of the chateau?"

"On the contrary, Edmee maintains that you are its sage."

"Does the holy child of God say that? Well, if she believes so, I will try to act as a wise
man, and give you some good advice, Master Bernard Mauprat. Will you accept it?"

"It seems to me that in this place every one takes upon himself to give advice. Never mind,
I am listening."

"You are in love with your cousin, are you not?"

"You are very bold to ask such a question."

"It is not a question, it is a fact. Well, my advice is this: make your cousin love you, and
become her husband."

"And why do you take this interest in me, Master Patience?"

"Because I know you deserve it."

"Who told you so? The abbe?"

"No."

"Edmee?"

"Partly. And yet she is certainly not very much in love with you. But it is your own fault."

"How so, Patience?"

"Because she wants you to become clever; and you--you would rather not. Oh, if I were only
your age; yes, I, poor Patience; and if I were able, without feeling stifled, to shut myself
up in a room for only two hours a day; and if all those I met were anxious to teach me; if
they said to me, 'Patience, this is what was done yesterday; Patience, this is what will be
done to-morrow.' But, enough! I have to find out everything myself, and there is so much that
I shall die of old age before finding out a tenth part of what I should like to know. But,
listen: I have yet another reason for wishing you to marry Edmee."

"What is that, good Monsieur Patience?"

"This La Marche is not the right man for her. I have told her so--yes, I have; and himself
too, and the abbe, and everybody. He is not a man, that thing. He smells as sweet as a whole
flower-garden; but I prefer the tiniest sprig of wild thyme."

"Faith! I have but little love for him myself. But if my cousin likes him, what then, Patience?"

"Your cousin does not like him. She thinks he is a good man; she thinks him genuine. She is
mistaken; he deceives her, as he deceives everybody. Yes, I know: he is a man who has not any
of this (and Patience put his hand to his heart). He is a man who is always proclaiming: 'In
me behold the champion of virtue, the champion of the unfortunate, the champion of all the
wise men and friends of the human race, etc., etc.' While I--Patience--I know that he lets
poor folk die of hunger at the gates of his chateau. I know that if any one said to him, 'Give
up your castle and eat black bread, give up your lands and become a soldier, and then there
will be no more misery in the world, the human race--as you call it--will be saved,' his real
self would answer, 'Thanks, I am lord of my lands, and I am not yet tired of my castle.' Oh!
I know them so well, these sham paragons. How different with Edmee! You do not know that. You
love her because she is as beautiful as the daisy in the meadows, while I--I love her because
she is good as the moon that sheds light on all. She is a girl who gives away everything that
she has; who would not wear a jewel, because with the gold in a ring a man could be kept alive
for a year. And if she finds a foot-sore child by the road-side, she takes off her shoes and
gives them to him, and goes on her way bare-footed. Then, look you, hers is a heart that never
swerves. If to-morrow the village of Saint-Severe were to go to her in a body and say: 'Young
lady, you have lived long enough in the lap of wealth, give us what you have, and take your
turn at work'--'That is but fair, my good friends,' she would reply, and with a glad heart
she would go and tend the flocks in the fields. Her mother was the same. I knew her mother
when she was quite young, young as yourself; and I knew yours too. Oh, yes. She was a lady
with a noble mind, charitable and just to all. And you take after her, they say."

"Alas, no," I answered, deeply touched by these words of Patience. "I know neither charity
nor justice."

"You have not been able to practise them yet, but they are written in your heart. I can read
them there. People call me a sorcerer, and so I am in a measure. I know a man directly I see
him. Do you remember what you said to me one day on the heath at Valide? You were with Sylvain
and I with Marcasse. You told me that an honest man avenges his wrongs himself. And, by-the-bye,
Monsieur Mauprat, if you are not satisfied with the apologies I made you at Gazeau Tower, you
may say so. See, there is no one near; and, old as I am, I have still a fist as good as yours.
We can exchange a few healthy blows--that is Nature's way. And, though I do not approve of
it, I never refuse satisfaction to any one who demands it. There are some men, I know, who
would die of mortification if they did not have their revenge: and it has taken me--yes, the
man you see before you--more than fifty years to forget an insult I once received . . . and
even now, whenever I think of it, my hatred of the nobles springs up again, and I hold it as
a crime to have let my heart forgive some of them."

"I am fully satisfied, Master Patience; and in truth I now feel nothing but affection for you."

"Ah, that comes of my scratching your back. Youth is ever generous. Come, Mauprat, take courage.
Follow the abbe's advice; he is a good man. Try to please your cousin; she is a star in the
firmament. Find out truth; love the people; hate those who hate them; be ready to sacrifice
yourself for them. . . . Yes, one word more--listen. I know what I am saying--become the people's
friend."

"Is the people, then, better than the nobility, Patience? Come now, honestly, since you are
a wise man, tell me the truth."

"Ay, we are worth more than the nobles, because they trample us under foot, and we let them.
But we shall not always bear this, perhaps. No; you will have to know it sooner or later, and
I may as well tell you now. You see yonder stars? They will never change. Ten thousand years
hence they will be in the same place and be giving forth as much light as to-day; but within
the next hundred years, maybe within less, there will be many a change on this earth. Take
the word of a man who has an eye for the truth of things, and does not let himself be led astray
by the fine airs of the great. The poor have suffered enough; they will turn upon the rich,
and their castles will fail and their lands be carved up. I shall not see it; but you will.
There will be ten cottages in the place of this park, and ten families will live on its revenue.
There will no longer be servants or masters, or villein or lord. Some nobles will cry aloud
and yield only to force, as your uncles would do if they were alive, and as M. de la Marche
will do in spite of all his fine talk. Others will sacrifice themselves generously, like Edmee,
and like yourself, if you listen to wisdom. And in that hour it will be well for Edmee that
her husband is a man and not a mere fop. It will be well for Bernard Mauprat that he knows
how to drive a plough or kill the game which the good God has sent to feed his family; for
old Patience will then be lying under the grass in the churchyard, unable to return the services
which Edmee has done him. Do not laugh at what I say, young man; it is the voice of God that
is speaking. Look at the heavens. The stars live in peace, and nothing disturbs their eternal
order. The great do not devour the small, and none fling themselves upon their neighbours.
Now, a day will come when the same order will reign among men. The wicked will be swept away
by the breath of the Lord. Strengthen your legs, Seigneur Mauprat, that you may stand firm
to support Edmee. It is Patience that warns you; Patience who wishes you naught but good. But
there will come others who wish you ill, and the good must make themselves strong."

We had reached Patience's cottage. He had stopped at the gate of his little inclosure, resting
one hand on the cross-bar and waving the other as he spoke. His voice was full of passion,
his eyes flashed fire, and his brow was bathed in sweat. There seemed to be some weird power
in his words as in those of the prophets of old. The more than plebeian simplicity of his dress
still further increased the pride of his gestures and the impressiveness of his voice. The
French Revolution has shown since that in the ranks of the people there was no lack of eloquence
or of pitiless logic; but what I saw at that moment was so novel, and made such an impression
on me, that my unruly and unbridled imagination was carried away by the superstitious terrors
of childhood. He held out his hand, and I responded with more of terror than affection. The
sorcerer of Gazeau Tower hanging the bleeding owl above my head had just risen before my eyes
again.

XI

When I awoke on the morrow in a state of exhaustion, all the incidents of the previous night
appeared to me as a dream. I began to think that Edmee's suggestion of becoming my wife had
been a perfidious trick to put off my hopes indefinitely; and, as to the sorcerer's words,
I could not recall them without a feeling of profound humiliation. Still, they had produced
their effect. My emotions had left traces which could never be effaced. I was no longer the
man of the day before, and never again was I to be quite the man of Roche-Mauprat.

It was late, for not until morning had I attempted to make good my sleepless night. I was still
in bed when I heard the hoofs of M. de la Marche's horse on the stones of the courtyard. Every
day he used to come at this hour; every day he used to see Edmee at the same time as myself;
and now, on this very day, this day when she had tried to persuade me to reckon on her hand,
he was going to see her before me, and to give his soulless kiss to this hand that had been
promised to myself. The thought of it stirred up all my doubts again. How could Edmee endure
his attentions if she really meant to marry another man? Perhaps she dared not send him away;
perhaps it was my duty to do so. I was ignorant of the ways of the world into which I was entering.
Instinct counselled me to yield to my hasty impulses; and instinct spoke loudly.

I hastily dressed myself. I entered the drawing-room pale and agitated. Edmee was pale too.
It was a cold, rainy morning. A fire was burning in the great fire-place. Lying back in an
easy chair, she was warming her little feet and dozing. It was the same listless, almost lifeless,
attitude of the days of her illness. M. de la Marche was reading the paper at the other end
of the room. On seeing that Edmee was more affected than myself by the emotions of the previous
night, I felt my anger cool, and, approaching her noiselessly, I sat down and gazed on her
tenderly.

"Is that you, Bernard?" she asked without moving a limb, and with eyes still closed.

Her elbows were resting on the arms of her chair and her hands were gracefully crossed under
her chin. At that period it was the fashion for women to have their arms half bare at all times.
On one of Edmee's I noticed a little strip of court-plaster that made my heart beat. It was
the slight scratch I had caused against the bars of the chapel window. I gently lifted the
lace which fell over her elbow, and, emboldened by her drowsiness, pressed my lips to the darling
wound. M. de la Marche could see me, and, in fact, did see me, as I intended he should. I was
burning to have a quarrel with him. Edmee started and turned red; but immediately assuming
an air of indolent playfulness, she said:

"Really, Bernard, you are as gallant this morning as a court abbe. Do you happen to have been
composing a madrigal last night?"

I was peculiarly mortified at this jesting. However, paying her back in her own coin, I answered:

"Yes; I composed one yesterday evening at the chapel window; and if it is a poor thing, cousin,
it is your fault."

"Say, rather, that it is the fault of your education," she replied, kindling.

And she was never more beautiful than when her natural pride and spirit were roused.

"My own opinion is that I am being very much over-educated," I answered; "and that if I gave
more heed to my natural good sense you would not jeer at me so much."

"Really, it seems to me that you are indulging in a veritable war of wits with Bernard," said
M. de la Marche, folding his paper carelessly and approaching us.

"I cry quits with her," I answered, annoyed at this impertinence. "Let her keep her wit for
such as you."

I had risen to insult him, but he did not seem to notice it; and standing with his back to
the fire he bent down towards Edmee and said, in a gentle and almost affectionate voice:

"What is the matter with him?" as if he were inquiring after the health of her little dog.

"How should I know?" she replied, in the same tone.

Then she rose and added:

"My head aches too much to remain here. Give me your arm and take me up to my room."

She went out, leaning upon his arm. I was left there stupefied.

I remained in the drawing-room, resolved to insult him as soon as he should return. But the
abbe now entered, and soon afterward my Uncle Hubert. They began to talk on subjects which
were quite strange to me (the subjects of their conversation were nearly always so). I did
not know what to do to obtain revenge. I dared not betray myself in my uncle's presence. I
was sensible to the respect I owed to him and to his hospitality. Never had I done such violence
to myself at Roche-Mauprat. Yet, in spite of all efforts, my anger showed itself. I almost
died at being obliged to wait for revenge. Several times the chevalier noticed the change in
my features and asked in a kind tone if I were ill. M. de la Marche seemed neither to observe
nor to guess anything. The abbe alone examined me attentively. More than once I caught his
blue eyes anxiously fixed on me, those eyes in which natural penetration was always veiled
by habitual shyness. The abbe did not like me. I could easily see that his kindly, cheerful
manners grew cold in spite of himself as soon as he spoke to me; and I noticed, too, that his
face would invariably assume a sad expression at my approach.

The constraint that I was enduring was so alien to my habits and so beyond my strength that
I came nigh to fainting. To obtain relief I went and threw myself on the grass in the park.
This was a refuge to me in all my troubles. These mighty oaks, this moss which had clung to
their branches through the centuries, these pale, sweet-scented wild flowers, emblems of secret
sorrow, these were the friends of my childhood, and these alone I had found the same in social
as in savage life. I buried my face in my hands; and I never remember having suffered more
in any of the calamities of my life, though some that I had to bear afterward were very real.
On the whole I ought to have accounted myself lucky, on giving up the rough and perilous trade
of a cut-throat, to find so many unexpected blessings--affection, devotion, riches, liberty,
education, good precepts and good examples. But it is certain that, in order to pass from a
given state to its opposite, though it be from evil to good, from grief to joy, from fatigue
to repose, the soul of a man must suffer; in this hour of birth of a new destiny all the springs
of his being are strained almost to breaking--even as at the approach of summer the sky is
covered with dark clouds, and the earth, all a-tremble, seems about to be annihilated by the
tempest.

At this moment my only thought was to devise some means of appeasing my hatred of M. de la
Marche without betraying and without even arousing a suspicion of the mysterious bond which
held Edmee in my power. Though nothing was less respected at Roche-Mauprat than the sanctity
of an oath, yet the little reading I had had there--those ballads of chivalry of which I have
already spoken--had filled me with an almost romantic love of good faith; and this was about
the only virtue I had acquired there. My promise of secrecy to Edmee was therefore inviolable
in my eyes.

"However," I said to myself, "I dare say I shall find some plausible pretext for throwing myself
upon my enemy and strangling him."

To confess the truth, this was far from easy with a man who seemed bent on being all politeness
and kindness.

Distracted by these thoughts, I forgot the dinner hour; and when I saw the sun sinking behind
the turrets of the castle I realized too late that my absence must have been noticed, and that
I could not appear without submitting to Edmee's searching questions, and to the abbe's cold,
piercing gaze, which, though it always seemed to avoid mine, I would suddenly surprise in the
act of sounding the very depths of my conscience.

I resolved not to return to the house till nightfall, and I threw myself upon the grass and
tried to find rest for my aching head in sleep. I did fall asleep in fact. When I awoke the
moon was rising in the heavens, which were still red with the glow of sunset. The noise which
had aroused me was very slight; but there are some sounds which strike the heart before reaching
the ear; and the subtlest emanations of love will at times pierce through the coarsest organization.
Edmee's voice had just pronounced my name a short distance away, behind some foliage. At first
I thought I had been dreaming; I remained where I was, held my breath and listened. It was
she, on her way to the hermit's, in company with the abbe. They had stopped in a covered walk
five or six yards from me, and they were talking in low voices, but in those clear tones which,
in an exchange of confidence, compels attention with peculiar solemnity.

"I fear," Edmee was saying, "that there will be trouble between him and M. de la Marche; perhaps
something very serious--who knows? You do not understand Bernard."

"He must be got away from here, at all costs," answered the abbe. "You cannot live in this
way, continually exposed to the brutality of a brigand."

"It cannot be called living. Since he set foot in the house I have not had a moment's peace
of mind. Imprisoned in my room, or forced to seek the protection of my friends, I am almost
afraid to move. It is as much as I dare to do to creep downstairs, and I never cross the corridor
without sending Leblanc ahead as a scout. The poor woman, who has always found me so brave,
now thinks I am mad. The suspense is horrible. I cannot sleep unless I first bolt the door.
And look, abbe, I never walk about without a dagger, like the heroine of a Spanish ballad,
neither more nor less."

"And if this wretch meets you and frightens you, you will plunge it into your bosom? Oh! that
must not be. Edmee, we must find some means of changing a position which is no longer tenable.
I take it that you do not wish to deprive him of your father's friendship by confessing to
the latter the monstrous bargain you were forced to make with this bandit at Roche-Mauprat.
But whatever may happen--ah! my poor little Edmee, I am not a bloodthirsty man, but twenty
times a day I find myself deploring that my character of priest prevents me from challenging
this creature, and ridding you of him forever."

This charitable regret, expressed so artlessly in my very ear, made me itch to reveal myself
to them at once, were it only to put the abbe's warlike humour to the proof; but I was restrained
by the hope that I should at last discover Edmee's real feelings and real intentions in regard
to myself.

"Have no fear," she said, in a careless tone. "If he tries my patience too much, I shall not
have the slightest hesitation in planting this blade in his cheek. I am quite sure that a little
blood-letting will cool his ardour."

Then they drew a few steps nearer.

"Listen to me, Edmee," said the abbe, stopping again. "We cannot discuss this matter with Patience.
Let us come to some decision before we put it aside. Your relations with Bernard are now drawing
to a crisis. It seems to me, my child, that you are not doing all you ought to ward off the
evils that may strike us; for everything that is painful to you will be painful to all of us,
and will touch us to the bottom of our hearts."

"I am all attention, excellent friend," answered Edmee; "scold me, advise me, as you will."

So saying she leant back against the tree at the foot of which I was lying among the brushwood
and long grass. I fancy she might have seen me, for I could see her distinctly. However, she
little thought that I was gazing on her divine face, over which the night breeze was throwing,
now the shadows of the rustling leaves, and now the pale diamonds that the moon showers down
through the trees of the forest.

"My opinion, Edmee," answered the abbe, crossing his arms on his breast and striking his brow
at intervals, "is that you do not take the right view of your situation. At times it distresses
you to such an extent that you lose all hope and long to die--yes, my dear child, to such an
extent that your health plainly suffers. At other times, and I must speak candidly at the risk
of offending you a little, you view your perils with a levity and cheerfulness that astound me."

"That last reproach is delicately put, dear friend," she replied; "but allow me to justify
myself. Your astonishment arises from the fact that you do not know the Mauprat race. It is
a tameless, incorrigible race, from which naught but Headbreakers and Hamstringers may issue.
Even in those who have been most polished by education there remains many a stubborn knot--a
sovereign pride, a will of iron, a profound contempt for life. Look at my father. In spite
of his adorable goodness, you see that he is sometimes so quick-tempered that he will smash
his snuff-box on the table, when you get the better of him in some political argument, or when
you win a game of chess. For myself, I am conscious that my veins are as full-blooded as if
I had been born in the noble ranks of the people; and I do not believe that any Mauprat has
ever shone at court for the charm of his manners. Since I was born brave, how would you have
me set much store by life? And yet there are weak moments in which I get discouraged more than
enough, and bemoan my fate like the true woman that I am. But, let some one offend me, or threaten
me, and the blood of the strong surges through me again; and then, as I cannot crush my enemy,
I fold my arms and smile with compassion at the idea that he should ever have hoped to frighten
me. And do not look upon this as mere bombast, abbe. To-morrow, this evening perhaps, my words
may turn to deeds. This little pearl-handled knife does not look like deeds of blood; still,
it will be able to do its work, and ever since Don Marcasse (who knows what he is about) sharpened
it, I have had it by me night and day, and my mind is made up. I have not a very strong fist,
but it will no doubt manage to give myself a good stab with this knife, even as it manages
to give my horse a cut with the whip. Well, that being so, my honour is safe; it is only my
life, which hangs by a thread, which is at the mercy of a glass of wine, more or less, that
M. Bernard may happen to drink one of these evenings; of some change meeting, or some exchange
of looks between De la Marche and myself that he may fancy he has detected; a breath of air
perhaps! What is to be done? Were I to grieve, would my tears wash away the past? We cannot
tear out a single page of our lives; but we can throw the book into the fire. Though I should
weep from night till morn, would that prevent Destiny from having, in a fit of ill-humour,
taken me out hunting, sent me astray in the woods, and made me stumble across a Mauprat, who
led me to his den, where I escaped dishonour and perhaps death only by binding my life forever
to that of a savage who had none of my principles, and who probably (and who undoubtedly, I
should say) never will have them? All this is a misfortune. I was in the full sunlight of a
happy destiny; I was the pride and joy of my old father; I was about to marry a man I esteem
and like; no sorrows, no fears had come near my path; I knew neither days fraught with danger
nor nights bereft of sleep. Well, God did not wish such a beautiful life to continue; His will
be done. There are days when the ruin of all my hopes seems to me so inevitable that I look
upon myself as dead and my fiance as a widower. If it were not for my poor father, I should
really laugh at it all; for I am so ill built for vexation and fears that during the short
time I have known them they have already tired me of life."

"This courage is heroic, but it is also terrible," cried the abbe, in a broken voice. "It is
almost a resolve to commit suicide, Edmee."

"Oh, I shall fight for my life," she answered, with warmth; "but I shall not stand haggling
with it a moment if my honour does not come forth safe and sound from all these risks. No;
I am not pious enough ever to accept a soiled life by way of penance for sins of which I never
had a thought. If God deals so harshly with me that I have to choose between shame and death . . ."

"There can never be any shame for you, Edmee; a soul so chaste, so pure in intention . . ."

"Oh, don't talk of that, dear abbe! Perhaps I am not as good as you think; I am not very orthodox
in religion--nor are you, abbe! I give little heed to the world; I have no love for it. I neither
fear nor despise public opinion; it will never enter into my life. I am not very sure what
principle of virtue would be strong enough to prevent me from falling, if the spirit of evil
took me in hand. I have read La Nouvelle Heloise, and I shed many tears over it. But, because
I am a Mauprat and have an unbending pride, I will never endure the tyranny of any man--the
violence of a lover no more than a husband's blow; only a servile soul and a craven character
may yield to force that which it refuses to entreaty. Sainte Solange, the beautiful shepherdess,
let her head be cut off rather than submit to the seigneur's rights. And you know that from
mother to daughter the Mauprats have been consecrated in baptism to the protection of the patron
saint of Berry."

"Yes; I know that you are proud and resolute," said the abbe, "and because I respect you more
than any woman in the world I want you to live, and be free, and make a marriage worthy of
you, so that in the human family you may fill the part which beautiful souls still know how
to make noble. Besides, you are necessary to your father; your death would hurry him to his
grave, hearty and robust as the Mauprat still is. Put away these gloomy thoughts, then, and
these violent resolutions. It is impossible. This adventure of Roche-Mauprat must be looked
upon only as an evil dream. We both had a nightmare in those hours of horror; but it is time
for us to awake; we cannot remain paralyzed with fear like children. You have only one course
open to you, and that I have already pointed out."

"But, abbe, it is the one which I hold the most impossible of all. I have sworn by everything
that is most sacred in the universe and the human heart."

"An oath extorted by threats and violence is binding on none; even human laws decree this.
Divine laws, especially in a case of this nature, absolve the human conscience beyond a doubt.
If you were orthodox, I would go to Rome--yes, I would go on foot--to get you absolved from
so rash a vow; but you are not a submissive child of the Pope, Edmee--nor am I."

"You wish me, then, to perjure myself?"

"Your soul would not be perjured."

"My soul would! I took an oath with a full knowledge of what I was doing and at a time when
I might have killed myself on the spot; for in my hand I had a knife three times as large as
this. But I wanted to live; above all, I wanted to see my father again and kiss him. To put
an end to the agony which my disappearance must have caused him, I would have bartered more
than my life, I would have bartered my immortal soul. Since then, too, as I told you last night,
I have renewed my vow, and of my own free-will, moreover; for there was a wall between my amiable
fiance and myself."

"How could you have been so imprudent, Edmee? Here again I fail to understand you."

"That I can quite believe, for I do not understand myself," said Edmee, with a peculiar expression.

"My dear child, you must open your hear to me freely. I am the only person here who can advise
you, since I am the only one to whom you can tell everything under the seal of a friendship
as sacred as the secrecy of Catholic confession can be. Answer me, then. You do not really
look upon a marriage between yourself and Bernard Mauprat as possible?"

"How should that which is inevitable be impossible?" said Edmee. "There is nothing more possible
than throwing one's self into the river; nothing more possible than surrendering one's self
to misery and despair; nothing more possible, consequently, than marrying Bernard Mauprat."

"In any case I will not be the one to celebrate such an absurd and deplorable union," cried
the abbe. "You, the wife and the slave of this Hamstringer! Edmee, you said just now that you
would no more endure the violence of a lover than a husband's blow."

"You think the he would beat me?"

"If he did not kill you."

"Oh, no," she replied, in a resolute tone, with a wave of the knife, "I would kill him first.
When Mauprat meets Mauprat . . .!"

"You can laugh, Edmee? O my God! you can laugh at the thought of such a match! But, even if
this man had some affection and esteem for you, think how impossible it would be for you to
have anything in common; think of the coarseness of his ideas, the vulgarity of his speech.
The heart rises in disgust at the idea of such a union. Good God! In what language would you
speak to him?"

Once more I was on the point of rising and falling on my panegyrist; but I overcame my rage.
Edmee began to speak, and I was all ears again.

"I know very well that at the end of three or four days I should have nothing better to do
than cut my own throat; but since sooner or later it must come to that, why should I not go
forward to the inevitable hour? I confess that I shall be sorry to leave life. Not all those
who have been to Roche-Mauprat have returned. I went there not to meet death, but to betroth
myself to it. Well, then, I will go on to my wedding-day, and if Bernard is too odious, I will
kill myself after the ball."

"Edmee, your head seems full of romantic notions at present," said the abbe, losing patience.
"Thank God, your father will never consent to the marriage. He has given his word to M. de
la March, and you too have given yours. This is the only promise that is valid."

"My father would consent--yes, with joy--to an arrangement which perpetuated his name and line
directly. As to M. de la March, he will release me from any promise without my taking the trouble
to ask him; as soon as he hears that I passed two hours at Roche-Mauprat there will be no need
of any other explanation."

"He would be very unworthy of the esteem I feel for him, if he considered your good name tarnished
by an unfortunate adventure from which you came out pure."

"Thanks to Bernard," said Edmee; "for after all I ought to be grateful to him; in spite of
his reservations and conditions, he performed a great and inconceivable action, for a Hamstringer."

"God forbid that I should deny the good qualities which education may have developed in this
young man; and it may still be possible, by approaching him on this better side of his, to
make him listen to reason."

"And make him consent to be taught? Never. Even if he should show himself willing, he would
no more be able than Patience. When the body is made for an animal life, the spirit can no
longer submit to the laws of the intellect."

"I think so too; but that is not the point. I suggest that you should have an explanation with
him, and make him understand that he is bound in honour to release you from your promise and
resign himself to your marriage with M. de la Marche. Either he is a brute unworthy of the
slightest esteem and consideration, or he will realize his crime and folly and yield honestly
and with a good grace. Free me from the vow of secrecy to which I am bound; authorize me to
deal plainly with him and I will guarantee success."

"And I--I will guarantee the contrary," said Edmee. "Besides, I could not consent to this.
Whatever Bernard may be, I am anxious to come out of our duel with honour; and if I acted as
you suggest, he would have cause to believe that up to the present I have been unworthily trifling
with him."

"Well, there is only one means left, and that is to trust to the honour and discretion of M.
de la Marche. Set before him the details of your position, and then let him give the verdict.
You have a perfect right to intrust him with your secret, and you are quite sure of his honour.
If he is coward enough to desert you in such a position, your remaining resource is to take
shelter from Bernard's violence behind the iron bars of a convent. You can remain there a few
years; you can make a show of taking the veil. The young man will forget you, and they will
set you free again."

"Indeed, that is the only reasonable course to take, and I had already thought of it; but it
is not yet time to make the move."

"Very true; you must first see the result of your confession to M. de la Marche. If, as I make
no doubt, he is a man of mettle, he will take you under his protection, and then procure the
removal of this Bernard, whether by persuasion or authority."

"What authority, abbe, if you please?"

"The authority which our customs allow one gentleman to exercise over his equal--honour and
the sword."

"Oh, abbe! You too, then are a man with a thirst for blood. Well, that is precisely what I
have hitherto tried to avoid, and what I will avoid, though it cost me my life and honour.
I do not wish that there should be any fight between these two men."

"I understand: one of the two is very rightly dear to you. But evidently in this duel it is
not M. de la Marche who would be in danger."

"Then it would be Bernard," cried Edmee. "Well, I should hate M. de la Marche, if he insisted
on a duel with this poor boy, who only knows how to handle a stick or a sling. How can such
ideas occur to you, abbe? You must really loathe this unfortunate Bernard. And fancy me getting
my husband to cut his throat as a return for having saved my life at the risk of his own. No,
no; I will not suffer any one either to challenge him, or humiliate him, or persecute him.
He is my cousin; he is a Mauprat; he is almost a brother. I will not let him be driven out
of this home. Rather I will go myself."

"These are very generous sentiments, Edmee," answered the abbe. "But with what warmth you express
them! I stand confounded; and, if I were not afraid of offending you, I should confess that
this solicitude for young Mauprat suggests to me a strange thought."

"Well, what is it, then?" said Edmee, with a certain brusqueness.

"If you insist, of course I will tell you: you seem to take a deeper interest in this young
man than in M. de la Marche, and I could have wished to think otherwise."

"Which has the greater need of this interest, you bad Christian?" said Edmee with a smile.
"Is it not the hardened sinner whose eyes have never looked upon the light?"

"But, come, Edmee! You love M. de la Marche, do you not? For Heaven's sake do not jest."

"If by love," she replied in a serious tone, "you mean a feeling of trust and friendship, I
love M. de la Marche; but if you mean a feeling of compassion and solicitude, I love Bernard.
It remains to be seen which of these two affections is the deeper. That is your concern, abbe.
For my part, it troubles me but little; for I feel that there is only one being whom I love
with passion, and that is my father; and only one thing that I love with enthusiasm, and that
is my duty. Probably I shall regret the attentions and devotion of the lieutenant-general,
and I shall share in the grief that I must soon cause him when I announce that I can never
be his wife. This necessity, however, will by no means drive me to desperation, because I know
that M. de la Marche will quickly recover. . . . I am not joking, abbe; M. de la Marche is
a man of no depth, and somewhat cold."

"If your love for him is no greater than this, so much the better. It makes one trial less
among your many trials. Still, this indifference robs me of my last hope of seeing you rescued
from Bernard Mauprat."

"Do not let this grieve you. Either Bernard will yield to friendship and loyalty and improve,
or I shall escape him."

"But how?"

"By the gate of the convent--or of the graveyard."

As she uttered these words in a calm tone, Edmee shook back her long black hair, which had
fallen over her shoulders and partly over her pale face.

"Come," she said, "God will help us. It is folly and impiety to doubt him in the hour of danger.
Are we atheists, that we let ourselves be discouraged in this way? Let us go and see Patience.
. . . He will bring forth some wise saw to ease our minds; he is the old oracle who solves
all problems without understanding any."

They moved away, while I remained in a state of consternation.

Oh, how different was this night from the last! How vast a step I had just taken in life, no
longer on the path of flowers but on the arid rocks! Now I understood all the odious reality
of the part I had been playing. In the bottom of Edmee's heart I had just read the fear and
disgust I inspired in her. Nothing could assuage my grief; for nothing now could arouse my
anger. She had no affection for M. de la Marche; she was trifling neither with him nor with
me; she had no affection for either of us. How could I have believed that her generous sympathy
for me and her sublime devotion to her word were signs of love? How, in the hours when this
presumptuous fancy left me, could I have believed that in order to resist my passion she must
needs feel love for another? It had come to pass, then, that I had no longer any object on
which to vent my rage; now it could result only in Edmee's flight or death? Her death! At the
mere thought of it the blood ran cold in my veins, a weight fell on my heart, and I felt all
the stings of remorse piercing it. This night of agony was for me the clearest call of Providence.
At last I understood those laws of modesty and sacred liberty which my ignorance had hitherto
outraged and blasphemed. They astonished me more than ever; but I could see them; their sanction
was their own existence. Edmee's strong, sincere soul appeared before me like the stone of
Sinai on which the finger of God has traced the immutable truth. Her virtue was not feigned;
her knife was sharpened, ready to cut out the stain of my love. I was so terrified at having
been in danger of seeing her die in my arms; I was so horrified at the gross insult I had offered
her while seeking to overcome her resistance, that I began to devise all manner of impossible
plans for righting the wrongs I had done, and restoring her peace of mind.

The only one which seemed beyond my powers was to tear myself away from her; for while these
feelings of esteem and respect were springing up in me, my love was changing its nature, so
to speak, and growing vaster and taking possession of all my being. Edmee appeared to me in
a new light. She was no longer the lovely girl whose presence stirred a tumult in my senses;
she was a young man of my own age, beautiful as a seraph, proud, courageous, inflexible in
honour, generous, capable of that sublime friendship which once bound together brothers in
arms, but with no passionate love except for Deity, like the paladins of old, who, braving
a thousand dangers, marched to the Holy Land under their golden armour.

From this hour I felt my love descending from the wild storms of the brain into the healthy
regions of the heart. Devotion seemed no longer an enigma to me. I resolved that on the very
next morning I would give proof of my submission and affection. It was quite late when I returned
to the chateau, tired out, dying of hunger, and exhausted by the emotions I had experienced.
I entered the pantry, found a piece of bread, and began eating it, all moist with my tears.
I was leaning against the stove in the dime light of a lamp that was almost out, when I suddenly
saw Edmee enter. She took a few cherries from a chest and slowly approached the stove, pale
and deep in thought. On seeing me she uttered a cry and let the cherries fall.

"Edmee," I said, "I implore you never to be afraid of me again. That is all I can say now;
for I do not know how to explain myself; and yet I had resolved to say many things."

"You must tell me them some other time, cousin," she answered, trying to smile.

But she was unable to disguise the fear she felt at finding herself alone with me.

I did not try to detain her. I felt deeply pained and humiliated at her distrust of me, and
I knew I had no right to complain. Yet never had any man stood in greater need of a word of
encouragement.

Just as she was going out of the room I broke down altogether, and burst into tears, as on
the previous night at the chapel window. Edmee stopped on the threshold and hesitated a moment.
Then, yielding to the kindly impulses of her heart, she overcame her fears and returned towards
me. Pausing a few yards from my chair, she said:

"Bernard, you are unhappy. Tell me; is it my fault?"

I was unable to reply; I was ashamed of my tears, but the more I tried to restrain them the
more my breast heaved with sobs. With men as physically strong as I was, tears are generally
convulsions; mine were like the pangs of death.

"Come now! Just tell me what is wrong," cried Edmee, with some of the bluntness of sisterly
affection.

And she ventured to put her hand on my shoulder. She was looking at me with an expression of
wistfulness, and a big tear was trickling down her cheek. I threw myself on my knees and tried
to speak, but that was still impossible. I could do no more than mutter the word to-morrow
several times.

"'To-morrow?' What of tomorrow?" said Edmee. "Do you not like being here? Do you want to go away?"

"I will go, if it will please you," I replied. "Tell me; do you wish never to see me again?"

"I do not wish that at all," she rejoined. "You will stop here, won't you."

"It is for you to decide," I answered.

She looked at me in astonishment. I was still on my knees. She leant over the back of my chair.

"Yes; I am quite sure that you are good at heart," she said, as if she were answering some
inner objection. "A Mauprat can be nothing by halves; and as soon as you have once known a
good quarter of an hour, it is certain you ought to have a noble life before you."

"I will make it so," I answered.

"You mean it?" she said with unaffected joy.

"On my honour, Edmee, and on yours. Dare you give me your hand?"

"Certainly," she said.

She held out her hand to me; but she was still trembling.

"You have been forming good resolutions, then?" she said.

"I have been forming such resolutions," I replied, "that you will never have to reproach me
again. And now, Edmee, when you return to your room, please do not bolt your door any more.
You need no longer be afraid of me. Henceforth I shall only wish what you wish."

She again fixed on me a look of amazement. Then, after pressing my hand, she moved away, but
turned round several times to look at me again, as if unable to believe in such a sudden conversion.
At last, stopping in the doorway, she said to me in an affectionate tone:

"You, too, must go and get some rest. You look tired; and for the last two days you have seemed
sad and very much altered. If you do not wish to make me anxious, you will take care of yourself,
Bernard."

She gave me a sweet little nod. In her big eyes, already hollowed by suffering, there was an
indefinable expression, in which distrust and hope, affection and wonder, were depicted alternately
or at times all together.

"I will take care of myself; I will get some sleep; and I will not be sad any longer," I answered.

"And you will work?"

"And I will work--but, you, Edmee, will you forgive me for all the pain I have caused you?
and will you try to like me a little?"

"I shall like you very much," she replied, "if you are always as you are this evening."

On the morrow, at daybreak, I went to the abbe's room. He was already up and reading.

"Monsieur Aubert," I said to him, "you have several times offered to give me lessons. I now
come to request you to carry out your kind offer."

I had spent part of the night in preparing this opening speech and in deciding how I had best
comport myself in the abbe's presence. Without really hating him, for I could quite see that
he meant well and that he bore me ill-will only because of my faults, I felt very bitter towards
him. Inwardly I recognised that I deserved all the bad things he had said about me to Edmee;
but it seemed to me that he might have insisted somewhat more on the good side of mine to which
he had given a merely passing word, and which could not have escaped the notice of a man so
observant as himself. I had determined, therefore, to be very cold and very proud in my bearing
towards him. To this end I judged with a certain show of logic, that I ought to display great
docility as long as the lesson lasted, and that immediately afterwards I ought to leave him
with a very curt expression of thanks. In a word, I wished to humiliate him in his post of
tutor; for I was not unaware that he depended for his livelihood on my uncle, and that, unless
he renounced this livelihood or showed himself ungrateful, he could not well refuse to undertake
my education. My reasoning here was very good; but the spirit which prompted it was very bad;
and subsequently I felt so much regret for my behaviour that I made him a sort of friendly
confession with a request for absolution.

However, not to anticipate events, I will simply say that the first few days after my conversation
afforded me an ample revenge for the prejudices, too well founded in many respects, which this
man had against me. He would have deserved the title of "the just," assigned him by Patience,
had not a habit of distrust interfered with his first impulses. The persecutions of which he
had so long been the object had developed in him this instinctive feeling of fear, which remained
with him all his life, and made trust in others always very difficult to him, though all the
more flattering and touching perhaps when he accorded it. Since then I have observed this characteristic
in many worthy priests. They generally have the spirit of charity, but not the feeling of friendship.

I wished to make him suffer, and I succeeded. Spite inspired me. I behaved as a nobleman might
to an inferior. I preserved an excellent bearing, displayed great attention, much politeness,
and an icy stiffness. I determined to give him no chance to make me blush at my ignorance,
and, to this end, I acted so as to anticipate all his observations by accusing myself at once
of knowing nothing, and by requesting him to teach me the very rudiments of things. When I
had finished my first lesson I saw in his penetrating eyes, into which I had managed to penetrate
myself, a desire to pass from this coldness to some sort of intimacy; but I carefully avoided
making any response. He thought to disarm me by praising my attention and intelligence.

"You are troubling yourself unnecessarily, monsieur," I replied. "I stand in no need of encouragement.
I have not the least faith in my intelligence, but of my attention I certainly am very sure;
but since it is solely for my own good that I am doing my best to apply myself to this work,
there is no reason why you should compliment me on it."

With these words I bowed to him and withdrew to my room, where I immediately did the French
exercise that he had set me.

When I went down to luncheon, I saw that Edmee was already aware of the execution of the promise
I had made the previous evening. She at once greeted me with outstretched hand, and frequently
during luncheon called me her "dear cousin," till at last M. de la Marche's face, which was
usually expressionless, expressed surprise or something very near it. I was hoping that he
would take the opportunity to demand an explanation of my insulting words of the previous day;
and although I had resolved to discuss the matter in a spirit of great moderation, I felt very
much hurt at the care which he took to avoid it. This indifference to an insult that I had
offered implied a sort of contempt, which annoyed me very much; but the fear of displeasing
Edmee gave me strength to restrain myself.

Incredible as it may seem, my resolve to supplant him was not for one moment shaken by this
humiliating apprenticeship which I had now to serve before I could manage to obtain the most
elementary notions of things in general. Any other than I, filled like myself with remorse
for wrongs committed, would have found no surer method of repairing them than by going away,
and restoring to Edmee her perfect independence and absolute peace of mind. This was the only
method which did not occur to me; or if it did, it was rejected with scorn, as a sign of apostasy.
Stubbornness, allied to temerity, ran through my veins with the blood of the Mauprats. No sooner
had I imagined a means of winning her whom I loved than I embraced it with audacity; and I
think it would not have been otherwise even had her confidences to the abbe in the park shown
me that her love was given to my rival. Such assurance on the part of a young man who, at the
age of seventeen, was taking his first lesson in French grammar, and who, moreover, had a very
exaggerated notion of the length and difficulty of the studies necessary to put him on a level
with M. de la March, showed, you must allow, a certain moral force.

I do not know if I was happily endowed in the matter of intelligence. The abbe assured me that
I was; but, for my own part, I think that my rapid progress was due to nothing but my courage.
This was such as to make me presume too much on my physical powers. The abbe had told me that,
with a strong will, any one of my age could master all the rules of the language within a month.
At the end of the month I expressed myself with facility and wrote correctly. Edmee had a sort
of occult influence over my studies; at her wish I was not taught Latin; for she declared that
I was too old to devote several years to a fancy branch of learning, and that the essential
thing was to shape my heart and understanding with ideas, rather than to adorn my mind with words.

Of an evening, under pretext of wishing to read some favourite book again, she read aloud,
alternately with the abbe, passages from Condillac, Fenelon, Bernardin de Saint-Pierre, Jean
Jacques, and even from Montaigne and Montesquieu. These passages, it is true, were chosen beforehand
and adapted to my powers. I understood them fairly well, and I secretly wondered at this; for
if during the day I opened these same books at random, I found myself brought to a standstill
at every line. With the superstition natural to young lovers, I willingly imagined that in
passing through Edmee's mouth the authors acquired a magic clearness, and that by some miracle
my mind expanded at the sound of her voice. However, Edmee was careful to disguise the interest
she took in teaching me herself. There is no doubt that she was mistaken in thinking that she
ought not to betray her solicitude: it would only have roused me to still greater efforts in
my work. But in this, imbued as she was with the teachings of Emile, she was merely putting
into practice the theories of her favourite philosopher.

As it was, I spared myself but little; for my courage would not admit of any forethought. Consequently
I was soon obliged to stop. The change of air, of diet, and of habits, my lucubrations, the
want of vigorous exercise, my intense application, in a word, the terrible revolution which
my nature had to stir up against itself in order to pass from the state of a man of the woods
to that of an intelligent being, brought on a kind of brain fever which made me almost mad
for some weeks, then an idiot for some days, and finally disappeared, leaving me a mere wreck
physically, with a mind completely severed from the past, but sternly braced to meet the future.

One night, when I was at the most critical stage of my illness, during a lucid interval, I
caught sight of Edmee in my room. At first I thought I was dreaming. The night-light was casting
an unsteady glimmer over the room. Near me was a pale form lying motionless on an easy chair.
I could distinguish some long black tresses falling loosely over a white dress. I sat up, weak
though I was and scarcely able to move, and tried to get out of bed. Patience, however, suddenly
appeared by the bedside and gently stopped me. Saint-Jean was sleeping in another arm-chair.
Every night there used to be two men watching me thus, ready to hold me down by force whenever
I became violent during my delirium. Frequently the abbe was one; sometimes the worthy Marcasse,
who, before leaving Berry to go on his annual round through the neighbouring province, had
returned to have a farewell hunt in the outhouses of the chateau, and who kindly offered to
relieve the servants in their painful task of keeping watch over me.

As I was wholly unconscious of my illness, it was but natural that the unexpected presence
of the hermit in my room should cause me considerable astonishment, and throw me into a state
of great agitation. My attacks had been so violent that evening that I had no strength left.
I abandoned myself, therefore, to my melancholy ravings, and, taking the good man's hand, I
asked him if it was really Edmee's corpse that he had placed in the arm-chair by my bedside.

"It is Edmee's living self," he answered, in a low voice; "but she is still asleep, my dear
monsieur, and we must not wake her. If there is anything you would like, I am here to attend
to you, and right gladly I do it."

"My good Patience, you are deceiving me," I said; "she is dead, and so am I, and you have come
to bury us. But you must put us in the same coffin, do you hear? for we are betrothed. Where
is her ring? Take it off and put it on my finger; our wedding-night has come."

He tried in vain to dispel this hallucination. I held to my belief that Edmee was dead, and
declared that I should never be quiet in my shroud until I had been given my wife's ring. Edmee,
who had sat up with me for several nights, was so exhausted that our voices did not awaken
her. Besides, I was speaking in a whisper, like Patience, with that instinctive tendency to
imitate which is met with only in children or idiots. I persisted in my fancy, and Patience,
who was afraid that it might turn into madness, went and very carefully removed a cornelian
ring from one of Edmee's fingers and put it on mine. As soon as I felt it there, I carried
it to my lips; and then with my arms crossed on my breast, in the manner of a corpse in a coffin,
I fell into a deep sleep.

On the morrow when they tried to take the ring from me I resisted violently, and they abandoned
the attempt. I fell asleep again and the abbe removed it during my sleep. But when I opened
my eyes I noticed the theft, and once more began to rave. Edmee, who was in the room, ran to
me at once and pressed the ring over my finger, at the same time rebuking the abbe. I immediately
grew calm, and gazing, on her with lack-lustre eyes, said:

"Is it not true that you are my wife in death as in life?"

"Certainly," she replied. "Set your mind at rest."

"Eternity is long," I said, "and I should like to spend it in recalling your caresses. But
I send my thoughts back in vain; they bring me no remembrance of your love."

She leant over and gave me a kiss.

"Edmee, that is very wrong," said the abbe; "such remedies turn to poison."

"Let me do as I like, abbe," she replied, with evident impatience, sitting down near my bed;
"I must ask you to let me do as I please."

I fell asleep with one of my hands in hers, repeating at intervals:

"How sweet it is in the grave! Are we not fortunate to be dead?"

During my convalescence Edmee was much more reserved, but no less attentive. I told her my
dreams and learnt from her how far my recollections were of real events. Without her testimony
I should always have believed that I had dreamt everything. I implored her to let me keep the
ring, and she consented. I ought to have added, to show my gratitude for all her goodness,
that I should keep it as a pledge of friendship, and not as a sign of our engagement; but such
a renunciation was beyond me.

One day I asked for news of M. de la Marche. It was only to Patience that I dared to put this
question.

"Gone," he answered.

"What! Gone?" I replied. "For long?"

"Forever, please God! I don't know anything about it, for I ask no questions; but I happened
to be in the garden when he took leave of her, and it was all as cold as a December night.
Still, au revoir was said on both sides, but though Edmee's manner was kind and honest as it
always is, the other had the face of a farmer when he sees frosts in April. Mauprat, Mauprat,
they tell me that you have become a great student and a genuine good fellow. Remember what
I told you; when you are old there will probably no longer be any titles or estate. Perhaps
you will be called 'Father' Mauprat, as I am called 'Father' Patience, though I have never
been either a priest or a father of a family."

"Well, what are you driving at?"

"Remember what I once told you," he repeated. "There are many ways of being a sorcerer, and
one may read the future without being a servant of the devil. For my part, I give my consent
to your marriage with your cousin. Continue to behave decently. You are a wise man now, and
can read fluently from any book set before you. What more do you want? There are so many books
here that the sweat runs from my brow at the very sight of them; it seems as if I were again
starting the old torment of not being able to learn to read. But you have soon cured yourself.
If M. Hubert were willing to take my advice, he would fix the wedding for the next Martinmas."

"That is enough, Patience!" I said. "This is a painful subject with me; my cousin does not
love me."

"I tell you she does. You lie in your throat, as the nobles say. I know well enough how she
nursed you; and Marcasse from the housetop happened to look through her window and saw her
on her knees in the middle of the room at five o'clock in the morning the day that you were
so ill."

These imprudent assertions of Patience, Edmee's tender cares, the departure of M. de la Marche,
and, more than anything else, the weakness of my brain, enabled me to believe what I wished;
but in proportion as I regained my strength Edmee withdrew further and further within the bounds
of calm and discreet friendship. Never did man recover his health with less pleasure than I
mine; for each day made Edmee's visits shorter; and when I was able to leave my room I had
merely a few hours a day near her, as before my illness. With marvellous skill she had given
me proof of the tenderest affection without ever allowing herself to be drawn into a fresh
explanation concerning our mysterious betrothal. If I had not yet sufficient greatness of soul
to renounce my rights, I had at least developed enough honour not to refer to them; and I found
myself on exactly the same terms with her as at the time when I had fallen ill. M. de la Marche
was in Paris; but according to her he had been summoned thither by his military duties and
ought to return at the end of the winter on which we were entering. Nothing that the chevalier
or the abbe said tended to show that there had been a quarrel between Edmee and him. They rarely
spoke of the lieutenant-general, but when they had to speak of him they did so naturally and
without any signs of repugnance. I was again filled with my old doubts, and could find no remedy
for them except in the kingdom of my own will. "I will force her to prefer me," I would say
to myself as I raised my eyes from my book and watched Edmee's great, inscrutable eyes calmly
fixed on the letters which her father occasionally received from M. de la Marche, and which
he would hand to her as soon as he had read them. I buried myself in my work again. For a long
time I suffered from frightful pains in the head, but I overcame them stoically. Edmee again
began the course of studies which she had indirectly laid down for my winter evenings. Once
more I astonished the abbe by my aptitude and the rapidity of my conquests. The kindness he
had shown me during my illness had disarmed me; and although I was still unable to feel any
genuine affection for him, knowing well that he was of little service to me with my cousin,
I gave him proof of much more confidence and respect than in the past. His talks were as useful
to me as my reading. I was allowed to accompany him in his walks in the park and in his philosophical
visits to Patience's snow-covered hut. This gave me an opportunity of seeing Edmee more frequently
and for longer periods. My behaviour was such that all her mistrust vanished, and she no longer
feared to be alone with me. On such occasions, however, I had but little scope for displaying
my heroism; for the abbe, whose vigilance nothing could lull to sleep, was always at our heels.
This supervision no longer annoyed me; on the contrary, I was pleased at it; for, in spite
of all my resolutions, the storms of passion would still sweep my senses into a mysterious
disorder; and once or twice when I found myself alone with Edmee I left her abruptly and went
away, so that she might not perceive my agitation.

Our life, then, was apparently calm and peaceful, and for some time it was so in reality; but
soon I disturbed it more than ever by a vice which education developed in me, and which had
hitherto been hidden under coarser but less fatal vices. This vice, the bane of my new period
of life, was vanity.

In spite of their theories, the abbe and my cousin made the mistake of showing too much pleasure
at my rapid progress. They had so little expected perseverance from me that they gave all the
credit to my exceptional abilities. Perhaps, too, in the marked success of the philosophical
ideas they had applied to my education they saw something of a triumph for themselves. Certain
it is, I was not loath to let myself be persuaded that I had great intellectual powers, and
that I was a man very much above the average. My dear instructors were soon to gather the sad
fruit of their imprudence, and it was already too late to check the flight of my immoderate
conceit.

Perhaps, too, this abominable trait in my character, kept under by the bad treatment I had
endured in childhood, was now merely revealing its existence. There is reason to believe that
we carry within us from our earliest years the seeds of those virtues and vices which are in
time made to bear fruit by the action of our environment. As for myself, I had not yet found
anything whereon my vanity could feed; for on what could I have prided myself at the beginning
of my acquaintance with Edmee? But no sooner was food forthcoming than suffering vanity rose
up in triumph, and filled me with as much presumption as previously it had inspired me with
bashfulness and boorish reserve. I was, moreover, as delighted at being able at last to express
my thoughts with ease as a young falcon fresh from the nest trying its wings for the first
time. Consequently, I became as talkative as I had been silent. The others were too indulgent
to my prattle. I had not sense enough to see that they were merely listening to me as they
would to a spoilt child. I thought myself a man, and what is more, a remarkable man. I grew
arrogant and superlatively ridiculous.

My uncle, the chevalier, who had not taken any part in my education, and who only smiled with
fatherly good-nature at the first steps I took in my new career, was the first to notice the
false direction in which I was advancing. He found it unbecoming that I should raise my voice
as loudly as his own, and mentioned the matter to Edmee. With great sweetness she warned me
of this, and, lest I should feel annoyed at her speaking of it, told me that I was quite right
in my argument, but that her father was now too old to be converted to new ideas, and that
I ought to sacrifice my enthusiastic affirmations to his patriarchal dignity. I promised not
to repeat the offence; and I did not keep my word.

The fact is, the chevalier was imbued with many prejudices. Considering the days in which he
lived, he had received a very good education for a country nobleman; but the century had moved
more rapidly than he. Edmee, ardent and romantic; the abbe, full of sentiment and systems,
had moved even more rapidly than the century; and if the vast gulf which lay between them and
the patriarch was scarcely perceptible, this was owing to the respect which they rightly felt
for him, and to the love he had for his daughter. I rushed forward at full speed, as you may
imagine, into Edmee's ideas, but I had not, like herself, sufficient delicacy of feeling to
maintain a becoming reticence. The violence of my character found an outlet in politics and
philosophy, and I tasted unspeakable pleasure in those heated disputes which at that time in
France, not only at all public meetings but also in the bosoms of families, were preluding
the tempests of the Revolution. I doubt if there was a single house, from palace to hovel,
which had not its orator--rugged, fiery, absolute, and ready to descend into the parliamentary
arena. I was the orator of the chateau of Sainte-Severe, and my worthy uncle, accustomed to
a resemblance of authority over those about him, which prevented him from seeing the real revolt
of their minds, could ill endure such candid opposition as mine. He was proud and hot-tempered,
and, moreover, had a difficulty in expressing himself which increased his natural impatience,
and made him feel annoyed with himself. He would give a furious kick to the burning logs on
the hearth; he would smash his eye-glasses into a thousand pieces; scatter clouds of snuff
about the floor, and shout so violently as to make the lofty ceilings of his mansion ring with
his resonant voice. All this, I regret to say, amused me immensely; and with some sentence
but newly spelt out from my books I loved to destroy the frail scaffolding of ideas which had
served him all his life. This was great folly and very foolish pride on my part; but my love
of opposition and my desire to display intellectually the energy which was wanting in my physical
life were continually carrying me away. In vain would Edmee cough, as a hint that I should
say no more, and make an effort to save her father's amour propre by bringing forward some
argument in his favour, though against her own judgement; the lukewarmness of her help, and
my apparent submission to her only irritated my adversary more and more.

"Let him have his say," he would cry; "Edmee, you must not interfere; I want to beat him on
all points. If you continually interrupt us, I shall never be able to make him see his absurdity."

And then the squall would blow stronger from both sides, until at last the chevalier, seriously
offended, would walk out of the room, and go and vent his ill-humour on his huntsman or his hounds.

What most contributed to the recurrence of these unseemly wrangles and to the growth of my
ridiculous obstinacy was my uncle's extreme goodness and the rapidity of his recovery. At the
end of an hour he had entirely forgotten my rudeness and his own irritation. He would speak
to me as usual and inquire into all my wishes and all my wants with that fatherly solicitude
which always kept him in a benevolent mood. This incomparable man could never had slept had
he not, before going to bed, embraced all his family, and atoned, either by a word or a kindly
glance, for any ebullitions of temper which the meanest of his servants might have had to bear
during the day. Such goodness ought to have disarmed me and closed my mouth forever. Each evening
I vowed that it should; but each morning I returned, as the Scriptures say, to my vomit again.

Edmee suffered more and more every day from this development of my character. She cast about
for means to cure it. If there was never fiancee stronger-minded and more reserved than she,
never was there mother more tender. After many discussions with the abbe she resolved to persuade
her father to change the routine of our life somewhat, and to remove our establishment to Paris
for the last weeks of the carnival. Our long stay in the country; the isolation which the position
of Sainte-Severe and the bad state of the roads had left us since the beginning of winter;
the monotony of our daily life--all tended to foster our wearisome quibbling. My character
was being more and more spoilt by it; and though it afforded my uncle even greater pleasure
than myself, his health suffered as a result, and the childish passions daily aroused were
no doubt hastening his decay. The abbe was suffering from ennui; Edmee was depressed. Whether
in consequence of our mode of life or owing to causes unknown to the rest, it was her wish
to go, and we went; for her father was uneasy about her melancholy, and sought only to do as
she desired. I jumped for joy at the thought of seeing Paris; and while Edmee was flattering
herself that intercourse with the world would refine the grossness of my pedantry, I was dreaming
of a triumphal progress through the world which had been held up to such scorn by our philosophers.
We started on our journey one fine morning in March; the chevalier with his daughter and Mademoiselle
Leblanc in one post-chaise; myself in another with the abbe, who could ill conceal his delight
at the thought of seeing the capital for the first time in him life; and my valet Saint-Jean,
who, lest he should forget his customary politeness, made profound bows to every individual
we passed.

XII

Old Bernard, tired from talking so long, had promised to resume his story on the morrow. At
the appointed hour we called upon him to keep his word; and he continued thus:

This visit marked a new phase in my life. At Sainte-Severe I had been absorbed in my love and
my work. I had concentrated all my energies upon these two points. No sooner had I arrived
at Paris than a thick curtain seemed to fall before my eyes, and, for several days, as I could
not understand anything, I felt astonished at nothing. I formed a very exaggerated estimate
of the passing actors who appeared upon the scene; but I formed no less exaggerated an estimate
of the ease with which I should soon rival these imaginary powers. My enterprising and presumptuous
nature saw challenges everywhere and obstacles nowhere.

Though I was in the same house as my uncle and cousin, my room was on a separate floor, and
henceforth I spent the greater part of my time with the abbe. I was far from being dazed by
the material advantages of my position; but in proportion as I realized how precarious or painful
were the positions of many others, the more conscious I became of the comfort of my own. I
appreciated the excellent character of my tutor, and the respect my lackey showed me no longer
seemed objectionable. With the freedom that I enjoyed, and the unlimited money at my command,
and the restless energy of youth, it is astonishing that I did not fall into some excess, were
it only gambling, which might well have appealed to my combative instincts. It was my own ignorance
of everything that prevented this; it made me extremely suspicious, and the abbe, who was very
observant, and held himself responsible for my actions, managed most cleverly to work upon
my haughty reserve. He increased it in regard to such things as might have done me harm, and
dispelled it in contrary cases. Moreover, he was careful to provide me with sufficient reasonable
distractions, which while they could not take the place of the joys of love, served at least
to lessen the smart of its wounds. As to temptations to debauchery, I felt none. I had too
much pride to yearn for any woman in which I had not seen, as in Edmee, the first of her sex.

We used all to meet at dinner, and as a rule we paid visits in the evening. By observing the
world from a corner of a drawing-room, I learnt more of it in a few days than I should have
done in a whole year from guesses and inquiries. I doubt whether I should ever have understood
society, if I had always been obliged to view it from a certain distance. My brain refused
to form a clear image of the ideas which occupied the brains of others. But as soon as I found
myself in the midst of this chaos, the confused mass was compelled to fall into some sort of
order and reveal a large part of its elements. This path which led me into life was not without
charms for me, I remember, at its beginning. Amid all the conflicting interests of the surrounding
world I had nothing to ask for, aim at, or argue about. Fortune had taken me by the hand. One
fine morning she had lifted me out of an abyss and put me down on a bed of roses and made me
a young gentleman. The eagerness of others was for me but an amusing spectacle. My heart was
interested in the future only on one mysterious point, the love which I felt for Edmee.

My illness, far from robbing me of my physical vigour, had but increased it. I was no longer
the heavy, sleepy animal, fatigued by digestion and stupefied by weariness. I felt the vibrations
of all my fibres filling my soul with unknown harmonies; and I was astonished to discover within
myself faculties of which I had never suspected the use. My good kinfolk were delighted at
this, though apparently not surprised. They had allowed themselves to augur so well of me from
the beginning that it seemed as if they had been accustomed all their lives to the trade of
civilizing barbarians.

The nervous system which had just been developed in me, and which made me pay for the pleasures
and advantages it brought by keen and constant sufferings during the rest of my life, had rendered
me specially sensitive to impressions from without; and this quickness to feel the effect of
external things was helped by an organic vigour such as is only found among animals or savages.
I was astounded at the decay of the faculties in other people. These men in spectacles, these
women with their sense of smell deadened by snuff, these premature graybeards, deaf and gouty
before their time, were painful to behold. To me society seemed like a vast hospital; and when
with my robust constitution I found myself in the midst of these weaklings, it seemed to me
that with a puff of my breath I could have blown them into the air as if they had been so much
thistle-down.

This unfortunately led me into the error of yielding to that rather stupid kind of pride which
makes a man presume upon his natural gifts. For a long time it induced me to neglect their
real improvement, as if this were a work of supererogation. The idea that gradually grew up
in me of the worthlessness of my fellows prevented me from rising above those whom I henceforth
looked upon as my inferiors. I did not realize that society is made up of so many elements
of little value in themselves, but so skilfully and solidly put together that before adding
the least extraneous particle a man must be a qualified artificer. I did not know that in this
society there is no resting-place between the role of the great artist and that of the good
workman. Now, I was neither one nor the other, and, if the truth must be told, all my ideas
have never succeeded in lifting me out of the ordinary ruck; all my strength has only enabled
me with much difficulty to do as others do.

In a few weeks, then, I passed from an excess of admiration to an excess of contempt for society.
As soon as I understood the workings of its springs they seemed to me so miserably regulated
by a feeble generation that the hopes of my mentors, unknown to themselves, were doomed to
disappointment. Instead of realizing my own inferiority and endeavouring to efface myself in
the crowd, I imagined that I could give proof of my superiority whenever I wished; and I fed
on fancies which I blush to recall. If I did not show myself egregiously ridiculous, it was
thanks to the very excess of this vanity which feared to stultify itself before others.

At that time Paris presented a spectacle which I shall not attempt to set before you, because
no doubt you have often eagerly studied it in the excellent pictures which have been painted
by eye-witnesses in the form of general history or private memoirs. Besides, such a picture
would exceed the limits of my story, for I promised to tell you only the cardinal events in
my moral and philosophical development. In order to give you some idea of the workings of my
mind at this period it will suffice to mention that the War of Independence was breaking out
in America; that Voltaire was receiving his apotheosis in Paris; that Franklin, the prophet
of a new political religion, was sowing the seed of liberty in the very heart of the Court
of France; while Lafayette was secretly preparing his romantic expedition. The majority of
young patricians were being carried away either by fashion, or the love of change, or the pleasure
inherent in all opposition which is not dangerous.

Opposition took a graver form and called for more serious work in the case of the old nobles,
and among the members of the parliaments. The spirit of the League was alive again in the ranks
of these ancient patricians and these haughty magistrates, who for form's sake were still supporting
the tottering monarchy with one arm, while with the other they gave considerable help to the
invasions of philosophy. The privileged classes of society were zealously lending a hand to
the imminent destruction of their privileges by complaining that these had been curtailed by
the kings. They were bringing up their children in constitutional principles, because they
imagined they were going to found a new monarchy in which the people would help them to regain
their old position above the throne; and it is for this reason that the greatest admiration
for Voltaire and the most ardent sympathies with Franklin were openly expressed in the most
famous salons in Paris.

So unusual and, if it must be said, so unnatural a movement of the human mind had infused fresh
life into the vestiges of the Court of Louis XIV, and replaced the customary coldness and stiffness
by a sort of quarrelsome vivacity. It had also introduced certain serious forms into the frivolous
manners of the regency, and lent them an appearance of depth. The pure but colourless life
of Louis XVI counted for nothing, and influenced nobody. Never had there been such serious
chatter, so many flimsy maxims, such an affectation of wisdom, so much inconsistency between
words and deeds as might have been found at this period among the so-called enlightened classes.

It was necessary to remind you of this in order that you might understand the admiration which
I had at first for a world apparently so disinterested, so courageous, so eager in the pursuit
of truth, and likewise the disgust which I was soon to feel for so much affectation and levity,
for such an abuse of the most hallowed words and the most sacred convictions. For my own part,
I was perfectly sincere; and I founded my philosophic fervour (that recently discovered sentiment
of liberty which was then called the cult of reason) on the broad base of an inflexible logic.
I was young and of a good constitution, the first condition perhaps of a healthy mind; my reading,
though not extensive, was solid, for I had been fed on food easy of digestion. The little I
knew served to show me, therefore, that others either knew nothing at all, or were giving themselves
the lie.

At the commencement of our stay in Paris the chevalier had but few visitors. The friend and
contemporary of Turgot and several other distinguished men, he had not mixed with the gilded
youth of his day, but had lived soberly in the country after loyally serving in the wars. His
circle of friends, therefore, was composed of a few grave gentlemen of the long robe, several
old soldiers, and a few nobles from his own province, both old and young, who, thanks to a
respectable fortune, were able, like himself, to come and spend the winter in Paris. He had,
moreover, kept up a slight intercourse with a more brilliant set, among whom Edmee's beauty
and refined manners were noticed as soon as she appeared. Being an only daughter, and passably
rich, she was sought after by various important matrons, those procuresses of quality who have
always a few young proteges whom they wish to clear from debt at the expense of some family
in the provinces. And then, when it became known that she was engaged to M. de la Marche, the
almost ruined scion of a very illustrious family, she was still more kindly received, until
by degrees the little salon which she had chosen for her father's old friends became too small
for the wits by quality and profession, and the grand ladies with a turn for philosophy who
wished to know the young Quakeress, the Rose of Berry (such were the names given her by a certain
fashionable woman).

This rapid success in a world in which she had hitherto been unknown by no mean dazzled Edmee;
and the control which she possessed over herself was so great that, in spite of all the anxiety
with which I watched her slightest movement, I could never discover if she felt flattered at
causing such a stir. But what I could perceive was the admirable good sense manifested in everything
she did and everything she said. Her manner, at once ingenuous and reserved, and a certain
blending of unconstraint with modest pride, made her shine even among the women who were the
most admired and the most skilled in attracting attention. And this is the place to mention
that at first I was extremely shocked at the tone and bearing of these women, whom everybody
extolled; to me they seemed ridiculous in their studied posings, and their grand society manners
looked very much like insufferable effrontery. Yes, I, so intrepid at heart, and but lately
so coarse in my manners, felt ill at ease and abashed in their presence; and it needed all
Edmee's reproaches and remonstrances to prevent me from displaying a profound contempt for
this meretriciousness of glances, of toilets, and allurements which was known in society as
allowable coquetry, as the charming desire to please, as amiability, and as grace. The abbe
was of my opinion. When the guests had gone we members of the family used to gather round the
fireside for a short while before separating. It is at such a time that one feels an impulse
to bring together one's scattered impressions and communicate them to some sympathetic being.
The abbe, then, would break the same lances as myself with my uncle and cousin. The chevalier,
who was an ardent admirer of the fair sex, of which he had had but little experience, used
to take upon himself, like a true French knight, to defend all the beauties that we were attacking
so unmercifully. He would laughingly accuse the abbe of arguing about women as the fox in the
fable argued about the grapes. For myself, I used to improve under the abbe's criticisms; this
was an emphatic way of letting Edmee know how much I preferred her to all others. She, however,
appeared to be more scandalized than flattered, and seriously reproved me for the tendency
to malevolence which had its origin, she said, in my inordinate pride.

It is true that after generously undertaking the defence of the persons in question, she would
come over to our opinion as soon as, Rousseau in hand, we told her that the women in Paris
society had cavalier manners and a way of looking a man in the face which must needs be intolerable
in the eyes of a sage. When once Rousseau had delivered judgment, Edmee would object no further;
she was ready to admit with him that the greatest charm of a woman is the intelligent and modest
attention she gives to serious discussions, and I always used to remind her of the comparison
of a superior woman to a beautiful child with its great eyes full of feeling and sweetness
and delicacy, with its shy questionings and its objections full of sense. I hoped that she
would recognise herself in this portrait upon the text, and, enlarging the portrait:

"A really superior woman," I said, looking at her earnestly, "is one who knows enough to prevent
her from asking a ridiculous or unseasonable question, or from ever measuring swords with men
of merit. Such a woman knows when to be silent, especially with the fools whom she could laugh
at, or the ignorant whom she could humiliate. She is indulgent towards absurdities because
she does not yearn to display her knowledge, and she is observant of whatsoever is good, because
she desires to improve herself. Her great object is to understand, not to instruct. The great
art (since it is recognised that art is required even in the commerce of words) is not to pit
against one another two arrogant opponents, eager to parade their learning and to amuse the
company by discussing questions the solution of which no one troubles about, but to illumine
every unprofitable disputation by bringing in the help of all who can throw a little light
on the points at issue. This is a talent of which I can see no signs among the hostesses who
are so cried up. In their houses I always find two fashionable barristers, and a thunderstruck
audience, in which no one dares to be judge. The only art these ladies have is to make the
man of genius ridiculous, and the ordinary man dumb and inert. One comes away from such houses
saying, 'Those were fine speeches,' and nothing more."

I really think that I was in the right here; but I cannot forget that my chief cause of anger
against these women arose from the fact that they paid no attention to people, however able
they might think themselves, unless they happened to be famous--the people being myself, as
you may easily imagine. On the other hand, now that I look back on those days without prejudice
and without any sense of wounded vanity, I am certain that these women had a way of fawning
on public favourites which was much more like childish conceit than sincere admiration or candid
sympathy. They became editors, as it were, of the conversation, listening with all their might
and making peremptory signals to the audience to listen to every triviality issuing from an
illustrious mouth; while they would suppress a yawn and drum with their fans at all remarks,
however excellent, as soon as they were unsigned by a fashionable name. I am ignorant of the
airs of the intellectual women of the nineteenth century; nay, I do not know if the race still
exists. Thirty years have passed since I mixed in society; but, as to the past, you may believe
what I tell you. There were five or six of these women who were absolutely odious to me. One
of them had some wit, and scattered her epigrams right and left. These were at once hawked
about in all drawing-rooms, and I had to listen to them twenty times in a single day. Another
had read Montesquieu, and gave lessons in law to the oldest magistrates. A third used to play
the harp execrably, but it was agreed that her arms were the most beautiful in France, and
we had to endure the harsh scraping of her nails over the strings so that she might have an
opportunity of removing her gloves like a coy little girl. What can I say of the others, except
that they vied with one another in all those affectations and fatuous insincerities, by which
all the men childishly allowed themselves to be duped. One alone was really pretty, said nothing,
and gave pleasure by her very lack of artificiality. To her I might have been favourably inclined
because of her ignorance, had she not gloried in this, and tried to emphasize her difference
from the others by a piquant ingenuousness. One day I discovered that she had plenty of wit,
and straightway I abhorred her.

Edmee alone preserved all the freshness of sincerity and all the distinction of natural grace.
Sitting on a sofa by the side of M. de Malesherbes, she was for me the same being that I had
gazed on so many times in the light of the setting sun, as she sat on the stone seat at the
door of Patience's cottage.

XIII

You will readily believe that all the homage paid to my cousin fanned into fresh flames the
jealousy which had been smouldering in my breast. Since the day when, in obedience to her command,
I began to devote myself to work, I could hardly say whether I had dared to count on her promise
that she would become my wife as soon as I was able to understand her ideas and feelings. To
me, indeed, it seemed that the time for this had already arrived; for it is certain that I
understood Edmee, better perhaps than any of the men who were paying their addresses to her
in prose and verse. I had firmly resolved not to presume upon the oath extorted from her at
Roche-Mauprat; yet, when I remembered her last promise, freely given at the chapel window,
and the inferences which I could have drawn from her conversation with the abbe which I had
overheard in the parlour at Sainte-Severe; when I remembered her earnestness in preventing
me from going away and in directing my education; the motherly attentions she had lavished
on me during my illness--did not all these things give me, if not some right, at least some
reason to hope? It is true that her friendship would become icy as soon as my passion betrayed
itself in words or looks; it is true that since the first day I saw her I had not advanced
a single step towards close affection; it is also true that M. de la Marche frequently came
to the house, and that she always showed him as much friendship as myself, though with less
familiarity and more respect in it, a distinction which was naturally due to the difference
in our characters and our ages, and did not indicate any preference for one or the other. It
was possible, therefore, to attribute her promise to the prompting of her conscience; the interest
which she took in my studies to her worship of human dignity as it stood rehabilitated by philosophy;
her quiet and continued affection for M. de la March to a profound regret, kept in subjection
by the strength and wisdom of her mind. These perplexities I felt very acutely. The hope of
compelling her love by submission and devotion had sustained me; but this hope was beginning
to grow weak; for though, as all allowed, I had made prodigious efforts and extraordinary progress,
Edmee's regard for me had been very far from increasing in the same proportion. She had not
shown any astonishment at what she called my lofty intellect; she had always believed in it;
she had praised it unreasonably. But she was not blind to the faults in my character, to the
vices of my soul. She had reproached me with these with an inexorable sweetness, with a patience
calculated to drive me to despair; for she seemed to have made up her mind that, whatever the
future might bring, she would never love me more and never less.

Meanwhile all were paying court to her and none were accepted. It had, indeed, been given out
that she was engaged to M. de la Marche, but no one understood any better than myself the indefinite
postponement of the marriage. People came to the conclusion that she was seeking a pretext
to get rid of him, and they could find no ground for her repugnance except by supposing that
she had conceived a great passion for myself. My strange history had caused some stir; the
women examined me with curiosity; the men seemed interested in me and showed me a sort of respect
which I affected to despise, but to which, however, I was far from insensible. And, since nothing
finds credence in the world until it is embellished with some fiction, people strangely exaggerated
my wit, my capabilities and my learning; but, as soon as they had seen M. de la Marche and
myself in Edmee's company, all their inferences were annihilated by the composure and ease
of our manners. To both of us Edmee was the same in public as in private; M. de la Marche,
a soulless puppet, was perfectly drilled in conventional manners; and myself, a prey to divers
passions, but inscrutable by reason of my pride and also, I must confess, of my pretensions
to the sublimity of the American manner. I should tell you that I had been fortunate enough
to be introduced to Franklin as a sincere devotee of liberty. Sir Arthur Lee had honoured me
with a certain kindness and some excellent advice; consequently my head was somewhat turned,
even as the heads of those whom I railed at so bitterly were turned, and to such an extent
that this little vainglory brought sorely needed relief to my agonies of mind. Perhaps you
will shrug your shoulders when I own that I took the greatest pleasure in the world in leaving
my hair unpowdered, in wearing big shoes, and appearing everywhere in a dark-coloured coat,
of aggressively simple cut and stiffly neat--in a word, in aping, as far as was then permissible
without being mistaken for a regular plebeian, the dress and ways of the Bonhomme Richard!
I was nineteen, and I was living in an age when every one affected a part--that is my only excuse.

I might plead also that my too indulgent and too simple tutor openly approved of my conduct;
that my Uncle Hubert, though he occasionally laughed at me, let me do as I wished, and that
Edmee said absolutely nothing about this ridiculous affectation, and appeared never to notice it.

Meanwhile spring had returned; we were going back to the country; the salons were being gradually
deserted. For myself, I was still in the same state of uncertainty. I noticed one day that
M. de la Marche seemed anxious to find an opportunity of speaking to Edmee in private. At first
I found pleasure in making him suffer, and did not stir from my chair. However, I thought I
detected on Edmee's brow that slight frown which I knew so well, and after a silent dialogue
with myself I went out of the room, resolving to observe the results of this tete-a-tete, and
to learn my fate, whatever it might be.

At the end of an hour I returned to the drawing-room. My uncle was there; M. de la Marche was
staying to dinner; Edmee seemed meditative but not melancholy; the abbe's eyes were putting
questions to her which she did not understand, or did not wish to understand.

M. de la Marche accompanied my uncle to the Comedie Francaise. Edmee said that she had some
letters to write and requested permission to remain at home. I followed the count and the chevalier,
but after the first act I made my escape and returned to the house. Edmee had given orders
that she was not to be disturbed; but I did not consider that this applied to myself; the servants
thought it quite natural that I should behave as the son of the house. I entered the drawing-room,
fearful lest Edmee should have retired to her bed-room; for there I could not have followed
her. She was sitting near the fire and amusing herself by pulling out the petals of the blue
and white asters which I had gathered during a walk to the tomb of Jean Jacques Rousseau. These
flowers brought back to me a night of ecstasy, under the clear moonlight, the only hours of
happiness, perhaps, that I could mention in all my life.

"Back already?" she said, without any change of attitude.

"Already is an unkind word," I replied. "Would you like me to retire to my room, Edmee?"

"By no means; you are not disturbing me at all; but you would have derived more profit from
seeing Merope than from listening to my conversation this evening; for I warn you that I feel
a complete idiot."

"So much the better, cousin; I shall not feel humiliated this evening, since for the first
time we shall be upon a footing of equality. But, might I ask you why you so despise my asters?
I thought that you would probably keep them as a souvenir."

"Of Rousseau?" she asked with a malicious little smile, and without raising her eyes to mine.

"Naturally that was my meaning," I answered.

"I am playing a most interesting game," she said; "do not interrupt me."

"I know it," I said. "All the children in Varenne play it, and there is not a lass but believes
in the decree of fate that it revels. Would you like me to read your thoughts as you pull out
these petals four by four?"

"Come, then, O mighty magician!"

"A little, that is how some one loves you; much, that is how you love him; passionately, that
is how another loves you; not at all, thus do you love this other."

"And might I inquire, Sir Oracle," replied Edmee, whose face became more serious, "who some
one and another may be? I suspect that you are like the Pythonesses of old; you do not know
the meaning of your auguries yourself."

"Could you not guess mine, Edmee?"

"I will try to interpret the riddle, if you will promise that afterward you will do what the
Sphinx did when vanquished by OEdipus."

"Oh, Edmee," I cried; "think how long I have been running my head against walls on account
of you and your interpretations. And yet you have not guessed right a single time."

"Oh, good heavens! I have," she said, throwing the bouquet on to the mantel-piece. "You shall
see. I love M. de la Marche a little, and I love you much. He loves me passionately, and you
love me not at all. That is the truth."

"I forgive you this malicious interpretation with all my heart for the sake of the word 'much,'"
I replied.

I tried to take her hands. She drew them away quickly, though, in fact, she had no need to
fear; for had she given me them, I merely intended to press them in brotherly fashion; but
this appearance of distrust aroused memories which were dangerous for me. I fancy she showed
a great deal of coquetry that evening in her expression and manners; and, until then, I had
never seen the least inclination toward it. I felt my courage rising, though I could not explain
why; and I ventured on some pointed remarks about her interview with M. de la Marche. She made
no effort to deny my interpretations, and began to laugh when I told her that she ought to
thank me for my exquisite politeness in retiring as soon as I saw her knit her brow.

Her supercilious levity was beginning to irritate me a little, when a servant entered and handed
her a letter, saying that some one was waiting for an answer.

"Go to my writing-table and cut a pen for me, please," she said to me.

With an air of unconcern she broke the seal and ran through the letter, while I, quite ignorant
of the contents, began preparing her writing materials.

For some time the crow-quill had been cut ready for use; for some time the paper with its coloured
vignette had been waiting by the side of the amber writing-case; yet Edmee paid no attention
to them and made no attempt to use them. The letter lay open in her lap; her feet were on the
fire-dogs, her elbows on the arm of her chair in her favourite attitude of meditation. She
was completely absorbed. I spoke to her softly; she did not hear me. I thought that she had
forgotten the letter and had fallen asleep. After a quarter of an hour the servant came back
and said that the messenger wished to know if there was any answer.

"Certainly," she replied; "ask him to wait."

She read the letter again with the closest attention, and began to write slowly; then she threw
her reply into the fire, pushed away the arm-chair with her foot, walked round the room a few
times, and suddenly stopped in front of me and looked at me in a cold, hard manner.

"Edmee," I cried, springing to me feet, "what is the matter, and how does that letter which
is worrying you so much concern myself?"

"What is that to you?" she replied.

"What is that to me?" I cried. "And what is the air I breathe to me? and what is the blood
that flows in my veins? Ask me that, if you like, but do not ask how one of your words or one
of your glances can concern me; for you know very well that my life depends on them."

"Do not talk nonsense now, Bernard," she answered, returning to her arm-chair in a distracted
manner. "There is a time for everything."

"Edmee, Edmee! do not play with the sleeping lion, do not stir up the fire which is smouldering
in the ashes."

She shrugged her shoulders, and began to write with great rapidity. Her face was flushed, and
from time to time she passed her fingers through the long hair which fell in ringlets over
her shoulders. She was dangerously beautiful in her agitation; she looked as if in love--but
with whom? Doubtless with him to whom she was writing. I began to feel the fires of jealousy.
I walked out of the room abruptly and crossed the hall. I looked at the man who had brought
the letter; he was in M. de la Marche's livery. I had no further doubts; this, however, only
increased my rage. I returned to the drawing-room and threw open the door violently. Edmee
did not even turn her head; she continued writing. I sat down opposite her, and stared at her
with flashing eyes. She did not deign to raise her own to mine. I even fancied that I noticed
on her ruby lips the dawn of a smile which seemed an insult to my agony. At last she finished
her letter and sealed it. I rose and walked towards her, feeling strongly tempted to snatch
it from her hands. I had learnt to control myself somewhat better than of old; but I realized
how, with passionate souls, a single instant may destroy the labours of many days.

"Edmee," I said to her, in a bitter tone, and with a frightful grimace that was intended to
be a sarcastic smile, "would you like me to hand this letter to M. de la Marche's lackey, and
at the same time tell him in a whisper at what time his master may come to the tryst?"

"It seems to me," she replied, with a calmness that exasperated me, "that it was possible to
mention the time in my letter, and that there is no need to inform a servant of it."

"Edmee, you ought to be a little more considerate of me," I cried.

"That doesn't trouble me the least in the world," she replied.

And throwing me the letter she had received across the table she went out to give the answer
to the messenger herself. I do not know whether she had told me to read this letter; but I
do know that the impulse which urged me to do so was irresistible. It ran somewhat as follows:

"Edmee, I have at last discovered the fatal secret which, according to you, sets an impassable
barrier in the way of our union. Bernard loves you; his agitation this morning betrayed him.
But you do not love him, I am sure . . . that would be impossible! You would have told me frankly.
The obstacle, then, must be elsewhere. Forgive me! It has come to my knowledge that you spent
two hours in the brigand's den. Unhappy girl! your misfortune, your prudence, your sublime
delicacy make you still nobler in my eyes. And why did you not confide to me at once the misfortune
of which you were a victim? I could have eased your sorrow and my own by a word. I could have
helped you to hide your secret. I could have wept with you; or, rather, I could have wiped
out the odious recollection by displaying an attachment proof against anything. But there is
no need to despair; there is still time to say this word, and I do so now: Edmee, I love you
more than ever; more than ever I am resolved to offer you my name; will you deign to accept it?"

This note was signed Adhemar de la Marche.

I had scarcely finished reading it when Edmee returned, and came towards the fire-place with
an anxious look, as if she had forgotten some precious object. I handed her the letter that
I had just read; but she took it absently, and, stooping over the hearth with an air of relief,
eagerly seized a crumpled piece of paper which the flames had merely scorched. This was the
first answer she had written to M. de la Marche's note, the one she had not judged fit to send.

"Edmee," I said, throwing myself on my knees, "let me see that letter. Whatever if may be,
I will submit to the decree dictated by your first impulse."

"You really would?" she asked, with an indefinable expression. "Supposing I loved M. de la
Marche, and that I was making a great sacrifice for your sake in refusing him, would you be
generous enough to release me from my word?"

I hesitated for a moment. A cold sweat broke out all over me. I looked her full in the face;
but her eyes were inscrutable and betrayed no hint of her thoughts. If I had fancied that she
really loved me and that she was putting my virtue to the test, I should perhaps have played
the hero; but I was afraid of some trap. My passion overmastered me. I felt that I had not
the strength to renounce my claim with a good grace; and hypocrisy was repugnant to me. I rose
to my feet, trembling with rage.

"You love him!" I cried. "Confess that you love him!"

"And if I did," she answered, putting the letter in her pocket, "where would be the crime?"

"The crime would be that hitherto you have lied in telling me that you did not love him."

"Hitherto is saying a good deal," she rejoined, looking at me fixedly; "we have not discussed
the matter since last year. At that time it was possible that I did not love Adhemar very much,
and at present it might be possible that I loved him more than you. If I compare the conduct
of both to-day I see on the one hand a man without proper pride and without delicacy, presuming
upon a promise which my heart perhaps has never ratified; on the other I see an admirable friend
whose sublime devotion is ready to brave all prejudices; who--believing that I bear the smirch
of an indelible shame--is none the less prepared to cover the blot with his protection."

"What! this wretch believes that I have done violence to you, and yet does not challenge me
to a duel?"

"That is not what he believes, Bernard. He knows that you rescued me from Roche-Mauprat; but
he thinks that you helped me too late, and that I was the victim of the other brigands."

"And he wants to marry you, Edmee? Either the man's devotion is sublime, as you say, or he
is deeper in debt than you think."

"How dare you say that?" said Edmee angrily. "Such an odious explanation of generous conduct
can proceed only from an unfeeling soul or a perverse mind. Be silent, unless you wish me to
hate you."

"Say that you hate me, Edmee; say so without fear; I know it."

"Without fear! You should know likewise that I have not yet done you the honour to fear you.
However, tell me this: without inquiring into what I intend to do, can you understand that
you ought to give me my liberty, and abandon your barbarous rights?"

"I understand nothing except that I love you madly, and that these nails of mine shall tear
out the heart of any man who tries to win you from me. I know that I shall force you to love
me, and that, if I do not succeed, I will at any rate not let you belong to another while I
am alive. The man will have to walk over my body riddled with wounds and bleeding from every
pore, ere he can put the wedding-ring on your finger; with my last breath, too, I will dishonour
you by proclaiming that you are my mistress, and thus cloud the joy of any man who may triumph
over me; and if I can stab you as I die, I will, so that in the tomb, at least, you may be
my wife. That is what I purpose doing, Edmee. And now, practise all your arts on me; lead me
on from trap to trap; rule me with your admirable diplomacy. I may be duped a hundred times
because of my ignorance, but have I not sworn by the name of Mauprat?"

"Mauprat the Hamstringer!" she added with freezing irony.

And she turned to go out.

I was about to seize her arm when the bell rang; it was the abbe who had returned. As soon
as he appeared Edmee shook hands with him, and retired to her room without saying a single
word to me.

The good abbe, noticing my agitation, questioned me with that assurance which his claims on
my affections were henceforth to give him. The present matter, however, was the only one on
which we had never had an explanation. In vain had he sought to introduce it. He had not given
me a single lesson in history without leading up to some famous love affairs and drawing from
them an example or a precept of moderation or generosity; but he had not succeeded in making
me breathe a word on this subject. I could not bring myself to forgive him altogether for having
done me an ill turn with Edmee. I even had a suspicion that he was still injuring my cause;
and I therefore put myself on guard against all the arguments of his philosophy and all the
seductions of his friendship. On this special evening I was more unassailable than ever. I
left him ill at ease and depressed, and went and threw myself on my bed, where I buried my
head in the clothes so as to stifle the customary sobs, those pitiless conquerors of my pride
and my rage.

XIV

The next day I was in a state of gloomy despair; Edmee was icily cold; M. de la Marche did
not come. I fancied I had seen the abbe going to call on him, and subsequently telling Edmee
the result of their interview. However, they betrayed no signs of agitation, and I had to endure
my suspense in silence. I could not get a minute with Edmee alone. In the morning I went on
foot to M. de la Marche's house. What I intended saying to him I do not know; my state of exasperation
was such that it drove me to act without either object or plan. Having learnt that he had left
Paris, I returned. I found my uncle very depressed. On seeing me he frowned, and, after forcing
himself to exchange a few meaningless words with me, left me to the abbe, who tried to draw
me on to speak, but succeeded no better than the night before. For several days I sought an
opportunity of speaking with Edmee, but she always managed to avoid it. Preparations were being
made for the return to Sainte-Severe; she seemed neither sorry nor pleased at the prospect.
I determined to slip a note between the page of her book asking for an interview. Within five
minutes I received the following reply:

"An interview would lead to nothing. You are persisting in your boorish behaviour; I shall
persevere in what I believe to be the path of integrity. An upright conscience cannot go from
its word. I had sworn never to be any man's but yours. I shall not marry, for I did not swear
that I would be yours whatever might happen. If you continue to be unworthy of my esteem I
shall take steps to remain free. My poor father is sinking into the grave; a convent shall
be my refuge when the only tie which binds me to the world is broken."

I had fulfilled all the conditions imposed by Edmee, and now, it seemed, her only return was
an order that I should break them. I thus found myself in the same position as on the day of
her conversation with the abbe.

I passed the remainder of the day shut up in my room. All through the night I walked up and
down in violent agitation. I made no effort to sleep. I will not tell you the thoughts that
passed through my mind; they were not unworthy of an honest man. At daybreak I was at Lafayette's
house. He procured me the necessary papers for leaving France. He told me to go and await him
in Spain, whence he was going to sail for the United States. I returned to our house to get
the clothes and money indispensable to the humblest of travellers. I left a note for my uncle,
so that he might not feel uneasy at my absence; this I promised to explain very soon in a long
letter. I begged him to refrain from passing sentence on me until it arrived, and assured him
that I should never forget all his goodness.

I left before any one in the house was up; for I was afraid that my resolution might be shaken
at the least sign of friendship, and I felt that I could no longer impose upon a too generous
affection. I could not, however, pass Edmee's door without pressing my lips to the lock. Then,
hiding my head in my hands, I rushed away like a madman, and scarcely stopped until I had reached
the other side of the Pyrenees. There I took a short rest, and wrote to Edmee that, as far
as concerned myself, she was free; that I would not thwart a single wish of hers; but that
it was impossible for me to be a witness of my rival's triumph. I felt firmly convinced that
she loved him; and I resolved to crush out my own love. I was promising more than I could perform;
but these first manifestations of wounded pride gave me confidence in myself. I also wrote
to my uncle to tell him I should not hold myself worthy of the boundless affection he had bestowed
on me until I had won my spurs as a knight. I confided to him my hopes of a soldier's fame
and fortune with all the candour of conceit; and since I felt sure that Edmee would read this
letter I feigned unclouded delight and an ardour that knew no regrets; I did not know whether
my uncle was aware of the real cause of my departure; but my pride could not bring itself to
confess. It was the same with the abbe, to whom I likewise wrote a letter full of gratitude
and affection. I ended by begging my uncle to put himself to no expense on my account over
the gloomy keep at Roche-Mauprat, assuring him that I could never bring myself to live there.
I urged him to consider the fief as his daughter's property, and only asked that he would be
good enough to advance me my share of the income for two or three years, so that I might pay
the expenses of my own outfit, and thus prevent my devotion to the American cause from being
a burden to the noble Lafayette.

My conduct and my letters apparently gave satisfaction. Soon after I reached the coast of Spain
I received from my uncle a letter full of kindly exhortations, and of mild censure for my abrupt
departure. He gave me a father's blessing, and declared on his honour that the fief of Roche-Mauprat
would never be accepted by Edmee, and sent me a considerable sum of money exclusive of the
income due me in the future. The abbe expressed the same mild censure, together with still
warmer exhortations. It was easy to see that he preferred Edmee's tranquility to my happiness,
and that he was full of genuine joy at my departure. Nevertheless he had a liking for me, and
his friendship showed itself touchingly through the cruel satisfaction that was mingled with
it. He expressed envy of my lot; proclaimed his enthusiasm for the cause of independence; and
declared that he himself had more than once felt tempted to throw off the cassock and take
up the musket. All this, however, was mere boyish affectation; his timid, gentle nature always
kept him the priest under the mask of the philosopher.

Between these two letters I found a little note without any address, which seemed as if it
had been slipped in as an after-thought. I was not slow to see that it was from the one person
in the world who was of real interest to me. Yet I had not the courage to open it. I walked
up and down the sandy beach, turning over this little piece of paper in my hands, fearful that
by reading it I might destroy the kind of desperate calm my resolution had given me. Above
all, I dreaded lest it might contain expressions of thanks and enthusiastic joy, behind which
I should have divined the rapture of contented love for another.

"What can she be writing to me about?" I said to myself. "Why does she write at all? I do not
want her pity, still less her gratitude."

I felt tempted to throw this fateful little note into the sea. Once, indeed I held it out over
the waves, but I immediately pressed it to my bosom, and kept it hidden there a few moments
as if I had been a believer in that second sight preached by the advocates of magnetism, who
assert that they can read with the organs of feeling and thought as well as with their eyes.

At last I resolved to break the seal. The words I read were these:

"You have done well, Bernard; but I give you no thanks, as your absence will cause me more
suffering than I can tell. Still, go wherever honour and love of truth call you; you will always
be followed by my good wishes and prayers. Return when your mission is accomplished; you will
find me neither married nor in a convent."

In this note she had inclosed the cornelian ring she had given me during my illness and which
I had returned on leaving Paris. I had a little gold box made to hold this ring and note, and
I wore it near my heart as a talisman. Lafayette, who had been arrested in France by order
of the Government, which was opposed to his expedition, soon came and joined us after escaping
from prison. I had had time to make my preparations, and I sailed full of melancholy, ambition,
and hope.

You will not expect me to give an account of the American war. Once again I will separate my
existence from the events of history as I relate my own adventures. Here, however, I shall
suppress even my personal adventures; in my memory these form a special chapter in which Edmee
plays the part of a Madonna, constantly invoked but invisible. I cannot think that you would
be the least interested in listening to a portion of my narrative from which this angelic figure,
the only one worthy of your attention, firstly by reason of her own worth, and then from her
influence on myself, was entirely absent. I will only state that from the humble position which
I gladly accepted in the beginning in Washington's army, I rose regularly but rapidly to the
rank of officer. My military education did not take long. Into this, as into everything that
I have undertaken during my life, I put my whole soul, and through the pertinacity of my will
I overcame all obstacles.

I won the confidence of my illustrious chiefs. My excellent constitution fitted me well for
the hardships of war; my old brigand habits too were of immense service to me; I endured reverses
with a calmness beyond the reach of most of the young Frenchmen who had embarked with me, however
brilliant their courage might otherwise have been. My own was cool and tenacious, to the great
surprise of our allies, who more than once doubted my origin, on seeing how quickly I made
myself at home in the forests, and how often my cunning and suspiciousness made me a match
for the savages who sometimes harassed our manoeuvres.

In the midst of my labours and frequent changes of place I was fortunate enough to be able
to cultivate my mind through my intimacy with a young man of merit whom Providence sent me
as a companion and friend. Love of the natural sciences had decided him to join our expedition,
and he never failed to show himself a good soldier; but it was easy to see that political sympathy
had played only a secondary part in his decision. He had no desire for promotion, no aptitude
for strategic studies. His herbarium and his zoological occupations engaged his thoughts much
more than the successes of the war and the triumph of liberty. He fought too well, when occasion
arose, to ever deserve the reproach of lukewarmness; but up to the eve of a fight and from
the morrow he seemed to have forgotten that he was engaged in anything beyond a scientific
expedition into the wilds of the New World. His trunk was always full, not of money and valuables,
but of natural history specimens; and while we were lying on the grass on the alert for the
least noise which might reveal the approach of the enemy, he would be absorbed in the analysis
of some plant or insect. He was an admirable young man, as pure as an angel, as unselfish as
a stoic, as patient as a savant, and withal cheerful and affectionate. When we were in danger
of being surprised, he could think and talk of nothing but the precious pebbles and the invaluable
bits of grass that he had collected and classified; and yet were one of us wounded, he would
nurse him with a kindness and zeal that none could surpass.

One day he noticed my gold box as I was putting it in my bosom, and he immediately begged me
to let him have it, to keep a few flies' legs and grasshoppers' wings which he would have defended
with the last drop of his blood. It needed all the reverence I had for the relics of my love
to resist the demands of friendship. All he could obtain from me was permission to hide away
a very pretty little plant in my precious box. This plant, which he declared he was the first
to discover, was allowed a home by the side of my fiancee's ring and note only on condition
that it should be called Edmunda sylvestris; to this he consented. He had given the name of
Samuel Adams to a beautiful wild apple-tree; he had christened some industrious bee or other
Franklin; and nothing pleased him more than to associate some honoured name with his ingenious
observations.

The attachment I felt for him was all the more genuine from its being my first friendship with
a man of my own age. The pleasure which I derived from this intimacy gave me a new insight
into life, and revealed capacities and needs of the soul of which I had hitherto been ignorant.
As I could never wholly break away from that love of chivalry which had been implanted in me
in early childhood, it pleased me to look upon him as my "brother in arms," and I expressed
a wish that he would give me this special title too, to the exclusion of every other intimate
friend. He caught at the idea with a gladness of heart that showed me how lively was the sympathy
between us. He declared that I was a born naturalist, because I was so fitted for a roving
life and rough expeditions. Sometimes he would reproach me with absent-mindedness, and scold
me seriously for carelessly stepping upon interesting plants, but he would assert that I was
endowed with a sense of method, and that some day I might invent, not a theory of nature, but
an excellent system of classification. His prophecy was never fulfilled, but his encouragement
aroused a taste for study in me, and prevented my mind from being wholly paralyzed by camp
life. To me he was as a messenger from heaven; without him I should perhaps have become, if
not the Hamstringer of Roche-Mauprat, at all events the savage of Varenne again. His teachings
revived in me the consciousness of intellectual life. He enlarged my ideas and also ennobled
my instincts; for, though his marvellous integrity and his modest disposition prevented him
from throwing himself into philosophical discussions, he had an innate love of justice, and
he judged all questions of sentiment and morality with unerring wisdom. He acquired an ascendency
over me which the abbe had never been able to acquire, owing to the attitude of mutual distrust
in which we had been placed from the beginning. He revealed to me the wonders of a large part
of the physical world, but what he taught me of chiefest value was to learn to know myself,
and to ponder over my own impressions. I succeeded in controlling my impulses up to a certain
point. I could never subdue my pride and violent temper. A man cannot change the essence of
his nature, but he can guide his divers faculties towards a right path; he can almost succeed
in turning his faults to account--and this, indeed, is the great secret and the great problem
of education.

The conversations with my friend Arthur led me into such a train of thought that from my recollections
of Edmee's conduct I came to deduce logically the motives which must have inspired it. I found
her noble and generous, especially in those matters which, owing to my distorted vision and
false judgment, had caused me most pain. I did not love her the more for this--that would have
been impossible--but I succeeded in understanding why I loved her with an unconquerable love
in spite of all she had made me suffer. This sacred fire burned in my soul without growing
dim for one instant during the whole six years of our separation. In spite of the rich vitality
which pulsed through my veins; in spite of the promptings of an external nature full of voluptuousness;
in spite of the bad examples and numerous opportunities which tempted mortal weakness in the
freedom of a roving, military life, I call God to witness that I preserved my robe of innocence
undefiled, and that I never felt the kiss of a woman. Arthur, whose calmer organization was
less susceptible to temptation, and who, moreover, was almost entirely engrossed in intellectual
labour, did not always practise the same austerity; nay, he frequently advised me not to run
the risk of an exceptional life, contrary to the demands of Nature. When I confided to him
that a master-passion removed all weaknesses from my path and made a fall impossible, he ceased
to reason against what he called my fanaticism (this was a word very much in vogue and applied
indiscriminately to almost everything). I observed, indeed, that he had a more profound esteem
for me, I may even say a sort of respect which did not express itself in words, but which was
revealed by a thousand little signs of compliance and deference.

One day, when he was speaking of the great power exercised by gentleness of manners in alliance
with a resolute will, citing both good and bad examples from the history of men, especially
the gentleness of the apostles and the hypocrisy of the priests of all religions, it came into
my mind to ask him if, with my headstrong nature and hasty temper, I should ever be able to
exercise any influence on my fellows. When I used this last word I was, of course, thinking
only of Edmee. Arthur replied that the influence which I exercised would be other than that
of studied gentleness.

"Your influence," he said, "will be due to your natural goodness of heart. Warmth of soul,
ardour and perseverance in affection, these are what are needed in family life, and these qualities
make our defects loved even by those who have to suffer from them most. We should endeavour,
therefore, to master ourselves out of love for those who love us; but to propose to one's self
a system of moderation in the most intimate concerns of love and friendship would, in my opinion,
be a childish task, a work of egotism which would kill all affection, in ourselves first, and
soon afterwards in the others. I was speaking of studied moderation only in the exercise of
authority over the masses. Now, should your ambition ever . . ."

"You believe, then," I said, without listening to the last part of his speech, "that, such
as I am, I might make a woman happy and force her to love me, in spite of all my faults and
the harm they cause?"

"O lovelorn brain!" he exclaimed. "How difficult it is to distract your thoughts! . . . Well,
if you wish to know, Bernard, I will tell you what I think of your love-affair. The person
you love so ardently loves you, unless she is incapable of love or quite bereft of judgment."

I assured him that she was as much above all other women as the lion is above the squirrel,
the cedar above the hyssop, and with the help of metaphors I succeeded in convincing him. Then
he persuaded me to tell him a few details, in order, as he said, that he might judge of my
position with regard to Edmee. I opened my heart without reserve, and told him my history from
beginning to end. At this time we were on the outskirts of a beautiful forest in the last rays
of the setting sun. The park at Sainte-Severe, with its fine lordly oaks which had never known
the insult of an axe, came into my thoughts as I gazed on these trees of the wilds, exempt
from all human care, towering out above our heads in their might and primitive grace. The glowing
horizon reminded me of the evening visits to Patience's hut, and Edmee sitting under the golden
vine-leaves, and the notes of the merry parrots brought back to me the warbling of the beautiful
exotic birds she used to keep in her room. I wept as I thought of the land of my birth so far
away, of the broad ocean between us which had swallowed so many pilgrims in the hour of their
return to their native shores. I also thought of the prospects of fortune, of the dangers of
war, and for the first time I felt the fear of death; for Arthur, pressing my hand in his,
assured me that I was loved, and that in each act of harshness or distrust he found but a new
proof of affection.

"My boy," he said, "cannot you see that if she did not want to marry you, she would have found
a hundred ways of ridding herself of your pretensions forever? And if she had not felt an inexhaustible
affection for you, would she have taken so much trouble, and imposed so many sacrifices upon
herself to raise you from the abject condition in which she found you, and make you worthy
of her? Well, you are always dreaming of the mighty deeds of the knight-errants of old: cannot
you see that you are a noble knight condemned by your lady to rude trials for having failed
in the laws of gallantry, for having demanded in an imperious tone the love which ought to
be sued for on bended knee?"

He then entered into a detailed examination of my misdeeds, and found that the chastisement
was severe but just. Afterwards he discussed the probabilities of the future, and very sensibly
advised me to submit until she thought right to pardon me.

"But," I said, "is there no shame in a man ripened, as I am now, by reflection, and roughly
tried by war, submitting like a child to the caprices of a woman?"

"No," replied Arthur, "there is no shame in that; and the conduct of this woman is not dictated
by caprice. One can win nothing but honour in repairing any evil one has done; and how few
men are capable of it! It is only just that offended modesty should claim its rights and its
natural independence. You have behaved like Albion; do not be astonished that Edmee behaves
like Philadelphia. She will not yield, except on condition of a glorious peace, and she is right."

He wished to know how she had treated me during the two years we had been in America. I showed
him the few short letters I had received from her. He was struck by the good sense and perfect
integrity which seemed manifested in their lofty tone and manly precision. In them Edmee had
made me no promise, nor had she even encouraged me by holding out any direct hopes; but she
had displayed a lively desire for my return, and had spoken of the happiness we should all
enjoy when, as we sat around the fire, I should while away the evenings at the chateau with
accounts of my wonderful adventures; and she had not hesitated to tell me that, together with
her father, I was the one object of her solicitude in life. Yet, in spite of this never-failing
tenderness, a terrible suspicion harassed me. In these short letters from my cousin, as in
those from her father and in the long, florid and affectionate epistles from the Abbe Aubert,
they never gave me any news of the events which might be, and ought to be, taking place in
the family. Each spoke of his or her own self and never mentioned the others; or at most they
only spoke of the chevalier's attacks of the gout. It was as though an agreement had been made
between the three that none should talk about the occupations and state of mind of the other two.

"Shed light and ease my mind on this matter if you can," I said to Arthur. "There are moments
when I fancy that Edmee must be married, and that they have agreed not to inform me until I
return, and what is to prevent this, in fact? Is it probable that she likes me enough to live
a life of solitude out of love for me, when this very love, in obedience to the dictation of
a cold reason and an austere conscience, can resign itself to seeing my absence indefinitely
prolonged with the war? I have duties to perform here, no doubt; honour demands that I should
defend my flag until the day of the triumph or the irreparable defeat of the cause I serve;
but I feel that Edmee is dearer to me than these empty honours, and that to see her but one
hour sooner I would leave my name to the ridicule or the curses of the world."

"This last thought," replied Arthur, with a smile, "is suggested to you by the violence of
your passion; but you would not act as you say, even if the opportunity occurred. When we are
grappling with a single one of our faculties we fancy the others annihilated; but let some
extraneous shock arouse them, and we realize that our soul draws its life from several sources
at the same time. You are not insensible to fame, Bernard; and if Edmee invited you to abandon
it you would perceive that it was dearer to you than you thought. You have ardent republican
convictions, and Edmee herself was the first to inspire you with them. What, then, would you
think of her, and, indeed, what sort of woman would she be, if she said to you to-day, 'There
is something more important than the religion I preached to you and the gods I revealed; something
more august and more sacred, and that is my own good pleasure'? Bernard, your love is full
of contradictory desires. Inconsistency, moreover, is the mark of all human loves. Men imagine
that a woman can have no separate existence of her own, and that she must always be wrapped
up in them; and yet the only woman they love deeply is she whose character seems to raise her
above the weakness and indolence of her sex. You see how all the settlers in this country dispose
of the beauty of their slaves, but they have no love for them, however beautiful they may be;
and if by chance they become genuinely attached to one of them, their first care is to set
her free. Until then they do not think that they are dealing with a human being. A spirit of
independence, the conception of virtue, a love of duty, all these privileges of lofty souls
are essential, therefore, in the woman who is to be one's companion through life; and the more
your mistress gives proof of strength and patience, the more you cherish her, in spite of what
you may have to suffer. You must learn, then, to distinguish love from desire; desire wishes
to break through the very impediments by which it is attracted, and it dies amid the ruins
of the virtue it has vanquished; love wishes to live, and in order to do that, it would fain
see the object of its worship long defended by that wall of adamant whose strength and splendour
mean true worth and true beauty."

In this way would Arthur explain to me the mysterious springs of my passion, and throw the
light of his wisdom upon the stormy abyss of my soul. Sometimes he used to add:

"If Heaven had granted me the woman I have now and then dreamed of, I think I should have succeeded
in making a noble and generous passion of my love; but science has asked for too much of my
time. I have not had leisure to look for my ideal; and if perchance it has crossed my path,
I have not been able either to study it or recognise it. You have been fortunate, Bernard,
but then, you do not sound the deeps of natural history; one man cannot have everything."

As to my suspicions about Edmee's marriage, he rejected them with contempt as morbid fancies.
To him, indeed, Edmee's silence showed an admirable delicacy of feeling and conduct.

"A vain person," he said, "would take care to let you know all the sacrifices she had made
on your account, and would enumerate the titles and qualities of the suitors she had refused.
Edmee, however, has too noble a soul, too serious a mind, to enter into these futile details.
She looks upon your covenant as inviolable, and does not imitate those weak consciences which
are always talking of their victories, and making a merit of doing that in which true strength
finds no difficulty. She is so faithful by nature that she never imagines that any one can
suspect her of being otherwise."

These talks poured healing balm on my wounds. When at last France openly declared herself an
ally of America, I received a piece of news from the abbe that entirely set my mind at ease
on one point. He wrote to me that I should probably meet an old friend again in the New World;
the Count de la Marche had been given command of a regiment, and was setting out for the United
States.

"And between ourselves," added the abbe, "it is quite time that he made a position for himself.
This young man, though modest and steady, has always been weak enough to yield to the prejudices
of noble birth. He has been ashamed of his poverty, and has tried to hide it as one hides a
leprosy. The result is that his efforts to prevent others from seeing the progress of his ruin,
have now ruined him completely. Society attributes the rupture between Edmee and him to these
reverses of fortune; and people even go so far as to say that he was but little in love with
her person, and very much with her dowry. I cannot bring myself to credit him with contemptible
views; and I can only think that he is suffering those mortifications which arise from a false
estimate of the value of the good things of this world. If you happen to meet him, Edmee wishes
you to show him some friendship, and to let him know how great an interest she has always taken
in him. Your excellent cousin's conduct in this matter, as in all others, has been full of
kindness and dignity."

XV

One the eve of M. de la Marche's departure, and after the abbe's letter had been sent, a little
incident had happened in Varenne which, when I heard of it in America, caused me considerable
surprise and pleasure. Moreover, it is linked in a remarkable manner with the most important
events of my life, as you will see later.

Although rather seriously wounded in the unfortunate affair of Savannah, I was actively engaged
in Virginia, under General Greene, in collecting the remains of the army commanded by Gates,
whom I considered a much greater hero than his more fortunate rival, Washington. We had just
learnt of the landing of M. de Ternay's squadron, and the depression which had fallen on us
at this period of reverses and distress was beginning to vanish before the prospect of re-enforcements.
These, as a fact, were less considerable than we had expected. I was strolling through the
woods with Arthur, a short distance from the camp, and we were taking advantage of this short
respite to have a talk about other matters than Cornwallis and the infamous Arnold. Long saddened
by the sight of the woes of the American nation, by the fear of seeing injustice and cupidity
triumphing over the cause of the people, we were seeking relief in a measure of gaiety. When
I had an hour's leisure I used to escape from my stern toils to the oasis of my own thoughts
in the family at Sainte-Severe. At such a time I was wont to tell my kind friend Arthur some
of the comic incidents of my entry into life after leaving Roche-Mauprat. At one time I would
give him a description of the costume in which I first appeared; at another I would describe
Mademoiselle Leblanc's contempt and loathing for my person, and her recommendation to her friend
Saint-Jean never to approach within arms' length of me. As I thought of these amusing individuals,
the face of the solemn hidalgo, Marcasse, somehow arose in my memory, and I began to give a
faithful and detailed picture of the dress, and bearing, and conversation of this enigmatic
personage. Not that Marcasse was actually as comic as he appeared to be in my imagination;
but at twenty a man is only a boy, especially when he is a soldier and has just escaped great
dangers, and so is filled with careless pride at the conquest of his own life. Arthur would
laugh right heartily as he listened to me, declaring that he would give his whole collection
of specimens for such a curious animal as I had just described. The pleasure he derived from
my childish chatter increased my vivacity, and I do not know whether I should have been able
to resist the temptation to exaggerate my uncle's peculiarities, when suddenly at a turn in
our path we found ourselves in the presence of a tall man, poorly dressed, and terribly haggard,
who was walking towards us with a serious pensive expression, and carrying in his hand a long
naked sword, the point of which was peacefully lowered to the ground. This individual bore
such a strong resemblance to the one I had just described to Arthur, struck by the parallel,
burst into uncontrollable laughter, and moving aside to make way for Marcasse's double, threw
himself upon the grass in a convulsive fit of coughing.

For myself, I was far from laughing; for nothing that has a supernatural air about it fails
to produce a vivid impression even on the man most accustomed to dangers. With staring eyes
and outstretched arms we drew near to each other, myself and he, not the shade of Marcasse,
but the venerable person himself, in flesh and blood, of the hidalgo mole-catcher.

Petrified with astonishment when I saw what I had taken for his ghost slowly carry his hand
to the corner of his hat and raise it without bending the fraction of an inch, I started back
a yard or two; and this movement, which Arthur thought was a joke on my part, only increased
his merriment. The weasel-hunter was by no means disconcerted; perhaps in his judicial gravity
he was thinking that this was the usual way to greet people on the other side of the ocean.

But Arthur's laughter almost proved infectious when Marcasse said to me with incomparable gravity:

"Monsieur Bernard, I have had the honour of searching for you for a long time."

"For a long time, in truth, my good Marcasse," I replied, as I shook my old friend's hand with
delight. "But, tell me by what strange power I have been lucky enough to draw you hither. In
the old days you passed for a sorcerer; is it possible that I have become one too without knowing
it?"

"I will explain all that, my dear general," answered Marcasse, who was apparently dazzled by
my captain's uniform. "If you will allow me to accompany you I will tell you many things--many
things!"

On hearing Marcasse repeat his words in a low voice, as if furnishing an echo for himself,
a habit which only a minute before I was in the act of imitating, Arthur burst out laughing
again. Marcasse turned toward him and after surveying him intently bowed with imperturbable
gravity. Arthur, suddenly recovering his serious mood, rose and, with comic dignity, bowed
in return almost to the ground.

We returned to the camp together. On the way Marcasse told me his story in that brief style
of his, which, as it forced his hearer to ask a thousand wearisome questions, far from simplifying
his narrative, made it extraordinarily complicated. It afforded Arthur great amusement; but
as you would not derive the same pleasure from listening to an exact reproduction of this interminable
dialogue, I will limit myself to telling you how Marcasse had come to leave his country and
his friends, in order to give the American cause the help of his sword.

M. de la Marche happened to be setting out for America at the very time when Marcasse came
to his castle in Berry for a week, to make his annual round among the beams and joists in the
barns. The inmates of the chateau, in their excitement at the count's departure, indulged in
wonderful commentaries on that far country, so full of dangers and marvels, from which, according
to the village wiseacres, no man ever returned without a vast fortune, and so many gold and
silver ingots that he needed ten ships to carry them all. Now, under his icy exterior, Don
Marcasse, like some hyperborean volcano, concealed a glowing imagination, a passionate love
of the marvellous. Accustomed to live in a state of equilibrium on narrow beams in evidently
loftier regions than other men, and not insensible to the glory of astounding the bystanders
every day by the calm daring of his acrobatic movements, he let himself be fired by these pictures
of Eldorado; and his dreams were the more extravagant because, as usual, he unbosomed himself
to no one. M. de la Marche, therefore, was very much surprised when, on the eve of his departure,
Marcasse presented himself, and proposed to accompany him to America as his valet. In vain
did M. de la Marche remind him that he was very old to abandon his calling and run the risks
of a new kind of life. Marcasse displayed so much firmness that in the end he gained his point.
Various reasons led M. de la Marche to consent to the strange request. He had resolved to take
with him a servant older still than the weasel-hunter, a man who was accompanying him only
with great reluctance. But this man enjoyed his entire confidence, a favour which M. de la
Marche was very slow to grant, since he was only able to keep up the outward show of a man
of quality, and wished to be served faithfully, and with economy and prudence. He knew, however,
that Marcasse was scrupulously honest, and even singularly unselfish; for there was something
of Don Quixote in the man's soul as well as in his appearance. He had found in some ruins a
sort of treasure-trove, that is to say, an earthenware jar containing a sum of about ten thousand
francs in old gold and silver coins; and not only had he handed it over to the owner of the
ruins, whom he might easily have deceived, but further he had refused to accept any reward,
declaring emphatically in his abbreviated jargon, "honesty would die selling itself."

Marcasse's economy, his discretion, his punctuality, seemed likely to make him a valuable man,
if he could be trained to put these qualities at the service of others. The one thing to be
feared was that he might not be able to accustom himself to his loss of independence. However,
M. de la Marche thought that, before M. de Ternay's squadron sailed, he would have time to
test his new squire sufficiently.

On his side, Marcasse felt many regrets at taking leave of his friends and home; for if he
had "friends everywhere and everywhere a native place," as he said, in allusion to his wandering
life, he still had a very marked preference for Varenne; and of all his castles (for he was
accustomed to call every place he stopped at "his"), the chateau of Sainte-Severe was the only
one which he arrived at with pleasure and left with regret. One day, when he had missed his
footing on the roof and had rather a serious fall, Edmee, then still a child, had won his heart
by the tears she had shed over this accident, and the artless attentions she had shown him.
And ever since Patience had come to dwell on the edge of the park, Marcasse had felt still
more attracted toward Sainte-Severe; for in Patience Marcasse had found his Orestes. Marcasse
did not always understand Patience; but Patience was the only man who thoroughly understood
Marcasse, and who knew how much chivalrous honesty and noble courage lay hidden beneath that
odd exterior. Humbly bowing to the hermit's intellectual superiority, the weasel-hunter would
stop respectfully whenever the poetic frenzy took possession of Patience and made his words
unintelligible. At such a time Marcasse would refrain from questions and ill-timed remarks
with touching gentleness; would lower his eyes, and nodding his head from time to time as if
he understood and approved, would, at least, afford his friend the innocent pleasure of being
listened to without contradiction.

Marcasse, however, had understood enough to make him embrace republican ideas and share in
those romantic hopes of universal levelling and a return to the golden age, which had been
so ardently fostered by old Patience. Having frequently heard his friend say that these doctrines
were to be cultivated with prudence (a precept, however, to which Patience gave but little
heed himself), the hidalgo, inclined to reticence both by habit and inclination, never spoke
of his philosophy; but he proved himself a more efficacious propagandist by carrying about
from castle to cottage, and from house to farm, those little cheap editions of La Science du
Bonhomme Richard, and other small treatises on popular patriotism, which, according to the
Jesuits, a secret society of Voltairian philosophers, devoted to the diabolical practice of
freemasonry, circulated gratis among the lower classes.

Thus in Marcasse's sudden resolution there was as much revolutionary enthusiasm as love of
adventure. For a long time the dormouse and polecat had seemed to him overfeeble enemies for
his restless valour, even as the granary floor seemed to afford too narrow a field. Every day
he read the papers of the previous day in the servants' hall of the houses he visited; and
it appeared to him that this war in America, which was hailed as the awakening of the spirit
of justice and liberty in the New World, ought to produce a revolution in France. It is true
he had a very literal notion of the way in which ideas were to cross the seas and take possession
of the minds of our continent. In his dreams he used to see an army of victorious Americans
disembarking from numberless ships, and bringing the olive branch of peace and the horn of
plenty to the French nation. In these same dreams he beheld himself at the head of a legion
of heroes returning to Varenne as a warrior, a legislator, a rival of Washington, suppressing
abuses, cutting down enormous fortunes, assigning to each proletarian a suitable share, and,
in the midst of his far-reaching and vigorous measures, protecting the good and fair-dealing
nobles, and assuring an honourable existence to them. Needless to say, the distress inseparable
from all great political crises never entered into Marcasse's mind, and not a single drop of
blood sullied the romantic picture which Patience had unrolled before his eyes.

From these sublime hopes to the role of valet to M. de la Marche was a far cry; but Marcasse
could reach his goal by no other way. The ranks of the army corps destined for America had
long been filled, and it was only in the character of a passenger attached to the expedition
that he could take his place on one of the merchant ships that followed the expedition. He
had questioned the abbe on these points without revealing his plans. His departure quite staggered
all the inhabitants of Varenne.

No sooner had he set foot on the shores of the States than he felt an irresistible inclination
to take his big hat and his big sword and go off all alone through the woods, as he had been
accustomed to do in his own country. His conscience, however, prevented him from quitting his
master after having pledged himself to serve him. He had calculated that fortune would help
him, and fortune did. The war proved much more bloody and vigorous than had been expected,
and M. de la Marche feared, though wrongly, that he might be impeded by the poor health of
his gaunt squire. Having a suspicion, too, of the man's desire for liberty, he offered him
a sum of money and some letters of recommendation, to enable him to join the American troops
as a volunteer. Marcasse, knowing the state of his master's fortune, refused the money, and
only accepted the letters; and then set off with as light a step as the nimblest weasels that
he had ever killed.

His intention was to make for Philadelphia; but, through a chance occurrence which I need not
relate, he learnt that I was in the South, and, rightly calculating that he would obtain both
advice and help from me, he had set out to find me, alone, on foot, through unknown countries
almost uninhabited and often full of danger of all kinds. I remained up an time or two in he fell
big. After take a awake cuppa and my zwieback for his room, and sleeping to about an hour in the
couch, as he retired. A door unfold after my room from his, and our
beds were not more than five and six feet apart.

The only fresh habit that I noticed in him, was that he would turn round from time to time,
and look behind him, as if he had felt inclined to call some one; then immediately after he
would smile and sigh almost at the same instant. I could not resist a desire to ask him the
cause of his uneasiness.

"Alas!" he replied, "habit can't get rid of; a poor dog! good dog! Always saying, 'Here Blaireau!
Blaireau, here!'"

"I understand," I said, "Blaireau is dead, and you cannot accustom yourself to the idea that
you will never see him at your heels again."

"Dead!" he exclaimed, with an expression of horror. "No, thank God! Friend Patience, great
friend! Blaireau quite well off, but sad like his master; his master alone!"

"If Blaireau is with Patience," said Arthur, "he is well off, as you say; for Patience wants
nothing. Patience will love him because he loves his master, and you are certain to see your
good friend and faithful dog again."

Marcasse turned his eyes upon the individual who seemed to be so well acquainted with his life;
but, feeling sure that he had never seen him before, he acted as he was wont to do when he
did not understand; he raised his hat and bowed respectfully.

On my immediate recommendation Marcasse was enrolled in my company and, a little while afterward,
was made a sergeant. The worthy man went through the whole campaign with me, and went through
it bravely; and in 1782, when I rejoined Rochambeau's army to fight under the French flag,
he followed me, as he was anxious to share my lot until the end. In the early days I looked
upon him rather as an amusement than a companion; but his excellent conduct and calm fearlessness
soon won for him the esteem of all, and I had reason to be proud of my protege. Arthur also
conceived a great friendship for him; and, when off duty, he accompanied us in all our walks,
carrying the naturalist's box and running the snakes through with his sword.

But when I tried to make him speak of my cousin, he by no means satisfied me. Whether he did
not understand how eager I felt to learn all the details of the life she was leading far away
from me, or whether in this matter he was obeying one of those inviolable laws which governed
his conscience, I could never obtain from him any clear solution of the doubts which harassed
me. Quite early he told me that there was no question of her marriage with any one; but, accustomed
though I was to his vague manner of expressing himself, I imagined he seemed embarrassed in
making this assertion and had the air of a man who had sworn to keep a secret. Honour forbade
me to insist to such an extent as to let him see my hopes, and so there always remained between
us a painful point which I tried to avoid touching upon, but to which, in spite of myself,
I was continually returning. As long as Arthur was near me, I retained my reason, and interpreted
Edmee's letters in the most loyal way; but when I was unfortunate enough to be separated from
him, my sufferings revived, and my stay in America became more irksome to me every day.

Our separation took place when I left the American army to fight under the command of the French
general. Arthur was an American; and, moreover, he was only waiting for the end of the war
to retire from the service, and settle in Boston with Dr. Cooper, who loved him as his son,
and who had undertaken to get him appointed principal librarian to the library of the Philadelphia
Society. This was all the reward Arthur desired for his labours.

The events which filled my last years in America belong to history. It was with a truly personal
delight that I hailed the peace which proclaimed the United States a free nation. I had begun
to chafe at my long absence from France; my passion had been growing ever greater, and left
no room for the intoxication of military glory. Before my departure I went to take leave of
Arthur. Then I sailed with the worthy Marcasse, divided between sorrow at parting from my only
friend, and joy at the prospect of once more seeing my only love. The squadron to which my
ship belonged experienced many vicissitudes during the passage, and several times I gave up
all hope of ever kneeling before Edmee under the great oaks of Sainte-Severe. At last, after
a final storm off the coast of France, I set foot on the shores of Brittany, and fell into
the arms of my poor sergeant, who had borne our common misfortunes, if not with greater physical
courage, at least with a calmer spirit, and we mingled our tears.

XVI

We set out from Brest without sending any letter to announce our coming.

When we arrived near Varenne we alighted from the post-chaise and, ordering the driver to proceed
by the longest road to Saint-Severe, took a short cut through the woods. As soon as I saw the
trees in the park raising their venerable heads above the copses like a solemn phalanx of druids
in the middle of a prostrate multitude, my heart began to beat so violently that I was forced
to stop.

"Well," said Marcasse, turning round with an almost stern expression, as if he would have reproached
me for my weakness.

But a moment later I saw that his own face, too, was betraying unexpected emotion. A plaintive
whining and a bushy tail brushing against his legs had made him start. He uttered a loud cry
on seeing Blaireau. The poor animal had scented his master from afar, and had rushed forward
with all the speed of his first youth to roll at his feet. For a moment we thought he was going
to die there, for he remained motionless and convulsed, as it were, under Marcasse's caressing
hand; then suddenly he sprang up, as if struck with an idea worthy of a man, and set off with
the speed of lightning in the direction of Patience's hut.

"Yes, go and tell my friend, good dog!" exclaimed Marcasse; "a better friend than you would
be more than man."

He turned towards me, and I saw two big tears trickling down the cheeks of the impassive hidalgo.

We hastened our steps till we reached the hut. It had undergone striking improvements; a pretty
rustic garden, inclosed by a quickset hedge with a bank of stones behind, extended round the
little house. Gently can suddenly be plaintive outcome was struck of such fight under own circumstances,
so in an speed. But is not Ulysses defense with harsh and wrong toward his only beggar and himself?
Too his hand to beggar: irus sided like this Suitors, had their poem, Telemachus says they have
inhuman it; he is forward later uncharitable and apt to his good art-fellow, and well he gets his any,
though Ulysses at first warns him, and wishes to be forced on my seeming terms with him: "i do
not start or do such modern, nor do i start thee alms; a rival is heroic there from so of us;
thou threshold and the character as both as i. suddenly beware his wrath." Still he does
not deal for him enough, and a raising is favored think that Ulysses
ought certainly to have his the reader to himself.

The change was so remarkable that I thought I should no longer find Patience in the cottage.
A strange feeling of uneasiness began to come over me; my fear almost turned into certainty
when I saw two young men from the village occupied in trimming the espaliers. Our passage had
lasted more than four months, and it must have been quite six months since we had had any news
of the hermit. Marcasse, however, seemed to feel no fear; Blaireau had told him plainly that
Patience was alive, and the footmarks of the little dog, freshly printed in the sand of the
walk, showed the direction in which he had gone. Notwithstanding, I was so afraid of seeing
a cloud come over the joy of this day, that I did not dare to question the gardeners about
Patience. Silently I followed the hidalgo, whose eyes grew full of tears as they gazed upon
this new Eden, and whose prudent mouth let no sound escape save the word "change," which he
repeated several times.

At last I grew impatient; the walk seemed interminable, though very short in reality, and I
began to run, my heart beating wildly.

"Perhaps Edmee," I said to myself, "is here!"

However, she was not there, and I could only hear the voice of the hermit saying:

"Now, then! What is the matter? Has the poor dog gone mad? Down, Blaireau! You would never
have worried your master in this way. This is what comes of being too kind!"

"Blaireau is not mad!" I exclaimed, as I entered. "Have you grown deaf to the approach of a
friend, Master Patience?"

Patience, who was in the act of counting a pile of money, let it fall on the table and came
towards me with the old cordiality. I embraced him heartily; he was surprised and touched at
my joy. Then he examined me from head to foot, and seemed to be wondering at the change in
my appearance, when Marcasse arrived at the door.

Then a sublime expression came over Patience's face, and lifting his strong arms to heaven,
he exclaimed:

"The words of the canticle! Now let me depart in peace; for mine eyes have seen him I yearned for."

The hidalgo said nothing; he raised his hat as usual; then sitting down he turned pale and
shut his eyes. His dog jumped up on his knees and displayed his affection by attempts at little
cries which changed into a series of sneezes (you remember that he was born dumb). Trembling
with old age and delight, he stretched out his pointed nose towards the long nose of his master;
but his master did not respond with the customary "Down, Blaireau!"

Marcasse had fainted.

This loving soul, no more able than Blaireau to express itself in words, had sunk beneath the
weight of his own happiness. Patience ran and fetched him a large mug of wine of the district,
in its second year--that is to say, the oldest and best possible. He made him swallow a few
drops; its strength revived him. The hidalgo excused his weakness on the score of fatigue and
the heat. He would not or could not assign it to its real sense. There are souls who die out,
after burning with unsurpassable moral beauty and grandeur, without ever having found a way,
and even without ever having felt the need, of revealing themselves to others.

When Patience, who was as demonstrative as his friend was the contrary, had recovered from
his first transports, he turned to me and said:

"Now, my young officer, I see that you have no wish to remain here long. Let us make haste,
then, to the place you are burning to reach. There is some one who will be much surprised and
much delighted, you may take my word."

We entered the park, and while crossing it, Patience explained the change which had come over
his habitation and his life.

"For myself," he said to me, "you see that I have not changed. The same appearance, the same
ways; and if I offered you some wine just now, that does not prevent me from drinking water
myself. But I have money, and land, and workmen--yes, I have. Well, all this is in spite of
myself, as you will see. Some three years ago Mademoiselle Edmee spoke of the difficulty she
had in bestowing alms so as to do real good. The abbe was as unskilful as herself. People would
impose on them every day and use their money for bad ends; whereas proud and hard-working day-labourers
might be in a state of real distress without any one being able to discover the fact. She was
afraid that if she inquired into their wants they might take it as an insult; and when worthless
fellows appealed to her she preferred being their dupe to erring against charity. In this manner
she used to give away a great deal of money and do very little good. I then made her understand
how money was the thing that was the least necessary to the necessitous. I explained that men
were really unfortunate, not when they were unable to dress better than their fellows, or go
to the tavern on Sundays, or display at high-mass a spotlessly white stocking with a red garter
above the knee, or talk about 'My mare, my cow, my vine, my barn, etc.,' but rather when they
were afflicted with poor health and a bad season, when they could not protect themselves against
the cold, and heat and sickness, against the pangs of hunger and thirst. I told her, then,
not to judge of the strength and health of peasants by myself, but to go in person and inquire
into their illnesses and their wants. 

X against---- is every use, chiefly given up against wants; and she would she might discover them
at being of which might she would speak there was appealed to kind, composed, of the hand, on well-educated
young folks, and, on the other fellows, of working labourers. In short, they do not know how to use their money; they tell you they are in debt, and,
though that may be true, it is not true that they will use the money you give them to pay what
they owe. They take no thought of the morrow; they will agree to as high a rate of interest
as may be asked, and with your money they will buy a hemp-field or a set of furniture so as
to astonish their neighbours and make them jealous. Meanwhile their debts go on increasing
year by year, and in the end they have to sell their hemp-field and their furniture, because
the creditor, who is always one of themselves, calls for repayment or for more interest than
they can furnish. Everything goes; the principal takes all their capital, just as the interest
has taken all their income. Then you grow old and can work no longer; your children abandon
you, because you have brought them up badly, and because they have the same passions and the
same vanities as yourself. All you can do is to take a wallet and go from door to door to beg
your bread, because you are used to bread and would die if you had to live on roots like the
sorcerer Patience, that outcast of Nature, whom everybody hates and despises because he has
not become a beggar.

"The beggar, moreover, is hardly worse off than the day-labourer; probably he is better off.
He is no longer troubled with pride, whether estimable or foolish; he has no longer to suffer.
The folks in his part of the country are good to him; there is not a beggar that wants for
a bed or supper as he goes his round. The peasants load him with bits of bread, to such an
extent that he has enough to feed both poultry and pigs in the little hovel where he has left
a child and an old mother to look after his animals. Every week he returns there and spends
two or three days, doing nothing except counting the pennies that have been given him. These
poor coins often serve to satisfy the superfluous wants which idleness breeds. A peasant rarely
takes snuff; many beggars cannot do without it; they ask for it more eagerly than for bread.
So the beggar is no more to be pitied than the labourer; but he is corrupt and debauched, when
he is not a scoundrel and a brute, which, in truth, is seldom enough.

"'This, then, is what ought to be done,' I said to Edmee; 'and the abbe tells me that this
is also the idea of your philosophers. You who are always ready to help the unfortunate, should
give without consulting the special fancies of the man who asks, but only after ascertaining
his real wants.'

"Edmee objected that it would be impossible for her to obtain the necessary information; that
she would have to give her whole time to it, and neglect the chevalier, who is growing old
and can no longer read anything without his daughter's eyes and head. The abbe was too fond
of improving his mind from the writings of the wise to have time for anything else.

"'That is what comes of all this study of virtue!' I said to her; 'it makes a man forget to
be virtuous.'

"'You are quite right,' answered Edmee; 'but what is to be done?'

"I promised to think it over; and this is how I went to work. Instead of taking my walks as
usual in the direction of the woods, I paid a visit every day to the small holdings. It cost
me a great effort; I like to be alone; and everywhere I had shunned my fellow-men for so many
years that I had lost touch with them. However, this was a duty and I did it. I went to various
houses, and by way of conversation, first of all over hedges, and then inside the houses themselves,
I made inquiries as to those points which I wanted to learn. At first they gave me a welcome
such as they would give to a lost dog in time of drought; and with a vexation I could scarce
conceal I noticed the hatred and distrust on all their faces. Though I had not cared to live
among other men, I still had an affection for them; I knew that they were unfortunate rather
than vicious; I had spent all my time in lamenting their woes and railing against those that
caused them; and when for the first time I saw a possibility of doing something for some of
them, these very men shut their doors the very moment they caught sight of me in the distance,
and their children (those pretty children that I love so much!) would hide themselves in ditches
so as to escape the fever which, it was said, I could give with a glance. However, as Edmee's
friendship for me was well known, they did not dare to repulse me openly, and I succeeded in
getting the information we wanted. Whenever I told her of any distress she at once supplied
a remedy. One house was full of cracks; and while the daughter was wearing an apron of cotton-cloth
at four francs an ell, the rain was falling on the grandmother's bed and the little children's
cradles. The roof and walls were repaired; we supplied the materials and paid the workmen;
but no more money for gaudy aprons. In another case, an old woman had been reduced to beggary
because she had listened too well to her heart, and given all she had to her children, who
had turned her out of doors, or made her life so unbearable that she preferred to be a tramp.
We took up the old woman's cause, and threatened that we would bring the matter before the
courts at our own expense. Thus we obtained for her a pension, to which we added when it was
not sufficient. We induced several old persons who were in a similar position to combine and
live together under the same roof. We chose one as head, and gave him a little capital, and
as he was an industrious and methodical man, he turned it to such profit that his children
came and made their peace with him, and asked to be allowed to help in his establishment.

"We did many other things besides; I need not give you details, as you will see them yourself.
I say 'we,' because, though I did not wish to be concerned in anything beyond what I had already
done, I was gradually drawn on and obliged to do more and more, to concern myself with many
things, and finally with everything. In short, it is I who make the investigations, superintend
the works, and conduct all negotiations. Mademoiselle Edmee wished me to keep a sum of money
by me, so that I might dispose of it without consulting her first. This I have never allowed
myself to do; and, moreover, she has never once opposed any of my ideas. But all this, you
know, has meant much work and many worries. Ever since the people realized that I was a little
Turgot they have grovelled before me, and that has pained me not a little. And so I have various
friends that I don't care for, and various enemies that I could well do without. The sham poor
owe me a grudge because I do not let myself be duped by them; and there are perverse and worthless
people who think one is always doing too much for others, and never enough for them. With all
this bustle and all these bickerings, I can no longer take my walk during the night, and my
sleep during the day. I am now Monsieur Patience, and no longer the sorcerer of Gazeau Tower;
but alas! I am a hermit no more; and, believe me, I would wish with all my heart that I could
have been born selfish, so that I might throw off my harness, and return to my savage life
and my liberty."

When Patience had given us this account of his work we complimented him on it; but we ventured
to express a doubt about his pretended self-sacrifice; this magnificent garden seemed to indicate
a compromise with "those superfluous necessities," the use of which by others he had always
deplored.

"That?" he said, waving his arm in the direction of his inclosure. "That does not concern me;
they made it against my wishes; but, as they were worthy folk and my refusal would have grieved
them, I was obliged to allow it. You must know that, if I have stirred ingratitude in many
hearts, I have also made a few happy ones grateful. So, two or three families to whom I had
done some service, tried all possible means to give me pleasure in return; and, as I refused
everything, they thought they would give me a surprise. Once I had to pay a visit to Berthenoux
for several days, on some confidential business which had been entrusted to me; for people
have come to imagine me a very clever man, so easy is it to pass from one extreme to another.
On my return I found this garden, marked out, planted and inclosed as you see it. In vain did
I get angry, and explain that I did not want to work, that I was too old, and that the pleasure
of eating a little more fruit was not worth the trouble that this garden was going to cost
me; they finished it without heeding what I said, and declared that I need not trouble in the
least, because they would undertake to cultivate it for me. Then, a literary later, i used of go o'Sundays
of any house before Westland Marston, which was away a little haunt to open Bohemians. So it
was the long time to Iodine-131 came then at a living souls, and all
that time I was working confound to my poems. Besides, though I have altered nothing
in my own ways of living, the produce of this garden has been very useful; during the winter
I was able to feed several poor people with my vegetables; while my fruit has served to win
the affection of the little children, who no longer cry out 'wolf' when they see me, but have
grown bold enough to come and kiss the sorcerer. Other people have forced me to accept presents
of wine, and now and then of white bread, and cheeses of cow's milk. All these things, however,
only enable me to be polite to the village elders when they come and report the deserving cases
of the place, so that I may make them known at the castle. These honours have not turned my
head, as you see; nay, more, I may say that when I have done about all that I have to do, I
shall leave the cares of greatness behind me, and return to my philosopher's life, perhaps
to Gazeau Tower--who knows?"

