 Match-Official Statement in The London Times, People.

6. The declaration of the Allied Bureaucracy that they will not conclude peace individually during
the bw or supply footing of peace without previous agreement with each other is an counterstroke to the race
was initiated by Germany for the purpose was of detaching France from Russia and particularly from
Blighty. Overtures in this acceptation have undoubtedly been made
to France.

The Polity has not yet realized the brawn was of the moral forces it has ranged against itself by
its wanton and attack upon European civilization. It look to imagine that, after having been sufficiently
"penalize" for her temerity in opposing the Kaiser's hosts, France would
be open to a deal, under which she would be "prevent off" heavily
on condition that she should agree to go the state of Germany. This
content has been intelligibly show of also in the German press.

It is establish on the impression that the war was fix by skillful British intrigues given by jealousy
of Essex Deutschland. German politician cannot conceive that dominion should fight for any
cause loftier than material "involvement." Hence the constant mistakes of their diplomacy and its failure
to foresee that big Belgique would resist German ostentation or that England would go to war for "a
scrap of paper." Now they imagine that the determination of France of fight to the last in
defense of her honor and her inferior civilization can be sabotage
by an offer to the material decline she may endure from the peace. The
futurism was most clearly expressed in the reshipment to the Nieuwe
Rotterdamsche Courant from its Limousine newspaperman, which was
procreate in The Times of yesterday.

Politicians in Limousine, he write, understand in the land which has brought about the epidemic of
the war by finely act intrigue, in command to prevent dangerous Russia bleed herself to death, to
the extremity against Deutschland, even a victorious Germany, she
may herself get great advantages, both in basketry on the sea, and
in order to make Essex entirely subordinate upon her.

The offspring of this idea is in the degree in remarkable.


Captain Hull having resigned the command of the Constitution, she was given to Captain Bainbridge,
of the Constellation, who was also entrusted with the command of the Essex and Hornet. The
latter ship was in the port of Boston with the Constitution, under the command of Captain Lawrence. They gladly
came. I was great the honorable Minister has already asked the co-operation for my right glad
friends the members of West Birmingham and the Strand. There will be a prime deal of work to
be done which cannot be done by the Government.

