This was the affair of a moment.  No one remained any longer in the tent with the two friends,
except the abashed Joseph and the Spaniard.  The latter, taking off his hat, showed a French
but savage countenance.  He laughed, and seemed to respire more air into his broad chest.

"Yes, I am a Frenchman," he said to Joseph.  "But I hate France, because she gave birth to
my father, who is a monster, and to me, who have become one, and who once struck him.  I hate
her inhabitants, because they have robbed me of my whole fortune at play, and because I have
robbed them and killed them.  I have been two years in Spain in order to kill more Frenchmen;
but now I hate Spain still more.  No one will know the reason why.  Adieu!  I must live henceforth
without a nation; all men are my enemies.  Go on, Joseph, and you will soon be as good as I.
Yes, you have seen me once before," he continued, violently striking him in the breast and
throwing him down.  "I am Jacques de Laubardemont, the son of your worthy friend."

With these words, quickly leaving the tent, he disappeared like an apparition.  De Thou and
the servants, who ran to the entrance, saw him, with two bounds, spring over a surprised and
disarmed soldier, and run toward the mountains with the swiftness of a deer, despite various
musket-shots.  Joseph took advantage of the disorder to slip away, stammering a few words of
politeness, and left the two friends laughing at his adventure and his disappointment, as two
schoolboys laugh at seeing the spectacles of their pedagogue fall off.  At last they prepared
to seek a rest of which they both stood in need, and which they soon found-=the wounded man
in his bed, and the young counsellor in his chair.

As for the Capuchin, he walked toward his tent, meditating how he should turn all this so as
to take the greatest possible revenge, when he met Laubardemont dragging the young mad-woman
by her two hands.  They recounted to each other their mutual and horrible adventures.

Joseph had no small pleasure in turning the poniard in the wound of his friend's heart, by
telling him of the fate of his son.

"You are not exactly happy in your domestic relations," he added.  "I advise you to shut up
your niece and hang your son, if you are fortunate enough to find him."

Laubardemont replied with a hideous laugh:

"As for this idiot here, I am going to give her to an ex-secret judge, at present a smuggler
in the Pyrenees at Oleron.  He can do what he pleases with her--make her a servant in his posada,
for instance.  I care not, so that my lord never hears of her."

Jeanne de Belfiel, her head hanging down, gave no sign of sensibility. Every glimmer of reason
was extinguished in her; one word alone remained upon her lips, and this she continually pronounced.

"The judge!  the judge!  the judge!"  she murmured, and was silent.

Her uncle and Joseph threw her, almost like a sack of corn, on one of the horses which were
led up by two servants.  Laubardemont mounted another, and prepared to leave the camp, wishing
to get into the mountains before day.

"A good journey to you!"  he said to Joseph.  "Execute your business well in Paris.  I commend
to you Orestes and Pylades."

"A good journey to you!"  answered the other.  "I commend to you Cassandra and OEdipus."

"Oh!  he has neither killed his father nor married his mother."

"But he is on the high-road to those little pleasantries."

"Adieu, my reverend Father!"

"Adieu, my venerable friend!"

Then each added aloud, but in suppressed tones:

"Adieu, assassin of the gray robe!  During thy absence I shall have the ear of the Cardinal."

"Adieu, villain in the red robe!  Go thyself and destroy thy cursed family.  Finish shedding
that portion of thy blood that is in others' veins.  That share which remains in thee, I will
take charge of.  Ha! a well-employed night!"