The question here presents itself whether this line of thought does not foster, rather than
lessen, the pedantry and the self-study which it is intended to combat. Why not simply drop
the worry and the doubt without further argument? The difficulty is that the mental processes
of the over-scrupulous person are such that he cannot summarily drop a habit of thought. He
must reason himself out of it. There is no limit to his ability if properly directed; he can
gradually modify all his faulty tendencies, and may even finally acquire the habit of automatically
dismissing worry, but it would be too much to expect that he suddenly change his very nature
at command.

Soukanhoff's description of obsessives is peculiarly apt: "over-scrupulous, disquieted over
trifles, indecisive in action, and anxious about their affairs. They are given early to morbid
introspection, and are easily worried about their own indispositions or the illnesses of their
friends. They are often timorous and apprehensive, and prone to pedantism. The moral sentiments
are pronounced in most cases, and if they are, as a rule, somewhat exigent and egotistic, they
have a lively sense of their own defects."

A common obsession is the compulsion to dwell upon the past, to reproduce the circumstances,
and painfully to retrace the steps which we took in coming to an erroneous decision which led
to a foolish, unnecessary, or perhaps even a wrong decision. One of my earliest impressions
in golf was the remark of a veteran who was good enough to make a round with me. "If I had
only approached better, I should have made that hole in five," I remarked, after taking seven
strokes for a hole.

"Perhaps not," he replied; "if you had approached better, perhaps you would have putted worse
and taken eight strokes for the hole. At all events, that hole is ancient history now, and
you will play this one better if you leave that one alone."

He little realized how many times his advice would recur to me elsewhere than on the links.
Retrospective worry can be absolutely eliminated from the most obsessive mind by the practice
of the veteran's philosophy.

Mercier says the greatest intellectual gift is the ability to forget.

The conscientious self-analyst spends too much time in weighing his ability or inability to
perform some task. Between his fear, his worry over the past, and his indecision whether the
task should be attempted, he starts with an overwhelming handicap. If he learns to say, "Other
people fail; it will not matter if I do this time," he will find the task already half accomplished.

The Rev. Francis Tiffany has observed that if a ship could think, and should imagine itself
submerged by all the waves between here and Europe, it would dread to leave its moorings; but
in reality it has to meet but one wave at a time.

The tendency of the average American in this bustling age, whether he is obsessive or not,
is to live at least several hours in advance. On the train he takes no comfort and makes no
observations, for his mind is upon his destination rather than on his journey.

     *       *       *       *       *

Though the immediate object of these chapters is the promotion of the mental, and indirectly
the physical, health of the individual, I cannot forbear referring to the effect of this training
on the position of the individual in society and his relation toward his surroundings.

The endeavor to overcome obsessions is likely to be ignored by two classes: the self-centered
individuals who see no reason for learning what they do not want to learn, and the individuals
who have no time for, or interest in, self-training because of absorption in subjects of wider
relation, as art, or science, or reform. The philosophy of Haeckel applies to both:

