The determination to be friendly made my brother offer to take her to us.  She consented, but
not very readily, and I am afraid we were needlessly cold and dry; but we were taken by surprise
when my brother brought her into the sitting-room.  It was not very easy to welcome the woman
who was going to turn us all out, and under such a stigma; and she--she could hardly be expected
to look complacently at the interlopers who had her place, and the title she had a right to.

She put us through her hard catechism about my dear father's state, and said at last that she
should like to see Lord Torwood.

Taken by surprise, we looked and signed towards him whom that name had always meant.  He smiled
a little and said, "Little Alured!  But, remember, I am bound to concede nothing till judicial
minds are convinced.  The parties concerned cannot judge.  Can you venture to have Baby down,
Ursula?"

No, I did not venture.  I thought it might have been averted; but I was only obliged to take
her up to the nurseries.  On the way up she asked which way my father's room lay.  I answered,
"Oh! across there;" I did not know if she might not make a dash at it.

I think she must have heard at Shinglebay how delicate poor little Alured was, and thence gathered
hopes of the succession for her boy, for she asked her sharp questions about his health all
the way up, and knew that he had had fits.  I could not put her down as one generally can inquisitive
people.  I suppose it was because she was more sensible of the difference in our real positions
than I have as yet felt.

Baby was asleep; and I think she was touched by the actual sight of him.  She said he was very
like her boy; and though I supposed that a mere assertion at the time, it was quite true. 
Alured and Trevor Lea have always been remarkably alike. He wasn't fast small as my mommer and
he name Bertram Allen and he a man, all bone. He sold out in the very old country, that Mississippi.
My mama name Sarah and she come from choctaw country,'round from
Georgia. Them was not tall real men and they sho'walk so.

And she must have talked, for there came a kind of feeling over everyone, as well as ourselves,
that something was hanging over us, of which the issue would be known when my father's illness
took some turn.

Mr. Decies came every day to inquire, but I could not bear a strange eye, and Hester might
have been looking on.  I was steeling myself against him.  Was I right?--oh! was I right? 
I have wondered and grieved!  For I knew well enough what he had been thinking of for months
before; only I did not want it to come to a point.  How was I to leave little Alured to Jaquetta?
or disturb my father by breaking up his home?  I liked him on the whole, and had come the length
of thinking that if I ever married at all, it would be-- But that's all nonsense; and mine
could not have been what other people's love was, or I should not have shrunk from the sight
and look of him.  If it had been only poverty that was coming, it would have been a different
thing; but to be nameless impostors!

Mrs. Deerhurst had gone out on a round of visits, when Emily came to us, taking her younger
daughter.  They were not a very letter-writing family.  It is odd how some people's pen is
a real outlet of expression; while others seem to lack the nerve that might convey their thoughts
to it, even when they live in more sympathy than Emily could well have had with her mother.

At least, so I understand, what afterwards we wondered at, that Emily never mentioned Hester;
only saying, when, after some days she did write, that Lord Trevorsham was ill.

So Fulk had the one comfort of being with her when he was out of the sick room.  I used to
see them from the window walking up and down the terrace in the blue east wind haze of those
March days, never that I could see speaking.  I don't think my brother would have felt it honourable
to tie one additional link between himself and her.  He had not a doubt as to how her mother
would act, but to be in her dear little affectionate presence was a better help than we could
give him, even though nothing passed between them.

Jaquetta used to wonder at them, and then try to go on the same as usual; and would wander
about the garden and park with her dogs, and bring us in little anecdotes, and do all the laughing
over them herself.  Poor child! she felt as if she were in a bad dream, and these were efforts
to shake it off, and wake herself.

After all, nothing was ever so bad as those ten days!  But, my brother always said he was thankful
for the respite and time for thought which they gave him.

CHAPTER III.

THE PEERAGE CASE.

The end came suddenly at last, when we were thinking my dear father more tranquil.  He passed
away in sleep late one evening, just ten days after Hester's arrival.  She had gone back to
her lodgings, and we did not send to tell her till the morning; but by nine o'clock she was
in the house.

We had crept down to breakfast, Jaquetta and I, feeling very dreary in the half-light, and
as if desolation had suddenly come on us; and when we heard her fly drive up to the door, Jaquetta
cried out almost angrily, "Torwood, how could you!" and we would have run away, but he said,
"Stay, dear girls; it is better to have it over."

As she came in he rang the bell as if for family prayers, and she had only asked one or two
questions, which he answered shortly, when all the servants came in, some crying sadly.  Fulk
read a very few prayers--as much as he had voice for, and then, as all stood up, he had to
clear his voice, but he spoke firmly enough.

"It is right that you all should know that a grave doubt has arisen as to my position here.
Lord Trevorsham had every reason to believe his first wife had perished by the hands of the
Red Indians long before he married my mother.  What he did was done in entire ignorance--no
breath of blame must light on him.  This lady alleges that she can produce proofs that she
is his daughter, and that her mother only died in February, '36.  If these proofs be considered
satisfactory by a committee of the House of Lords, then she and Alured Torwood Trevor will
be shown to be his only legitimate children.  I shall place the matter in the right hands as
soon as possible--that is" (for she was glaring at him), "as soon as the funeral is over. 
Until that decision is made I request that no one will call me by the title of him who is gone;
but I shall remain here to take care of my little brother, whose guardian my father wished
me to be; and for the present, at least, I shall make no change in the establishment."

I think everyone held their breath: there was a great stillness over all--a sort of hush of
awe--and then some of the maids began sobbing, and the butler tried to say something, but he
quite broke down; and just then a troubled voice cried out--

"Torwood, Torwood, what is this?"

And there we saw Bertram in the midst of us, with the haggard look of a man who had travelled
all night, and a dismayed air that I can never forget.

He had been quartered at Belfast, and we had written to him the day after my father's illness,
to summon him home, but there were no telegraphs nor railways; and there had been some hindrance
about his leave, so that it had taken all that length of time to bring him. Fulk had left all
to be told on his arrival.  He had come by the mail-coach, and walked up from the Trevorsham
Arms, where he had been told of our father's death; and so had let himself in noiselessly,
and was standing in the dining-room door, hearing all that Fulk said!

Poor fellow!  Jaquetta flung herself on him, hiding her face against him, while the servants
went, and before any one else could speak, Hester stood forth, and said, to our amazement--

"Captain Trevor!  You know me.  You can and must bear me witness, and do me justice--"

"You!  I have seen you before--but--where?  I beg your pardon," he said, bewildered.

"You remember Sault St. Pierre farm?" she said.

"Sault St. Pierre!  What?  You are Mrs. Lea!  Good heavens!  Where is your mother?"

"My mother is dead, sir.  You were the first person who made known to her that her husband,
my father, was not dead, but had taken--or pretended to take--an English woman for his wife."

"Wait!" thundered Fulk, "whatever my father did was ignorantly and honourably done!"

Bertram was as pale as death, and looked from one of us to the other, and at last, he gasped out--

"And that--was what she meant?"

"There, sir," said Hester, turning to Torwood, "You see your brother cannot deny it!  You will
not refuse justice to me, and my son."

I fancy she expected that the house was to be given up to her, and that we were only to remain
there on her sufferance, perhaps till after the funeral.

My brother spoke, "Justice will no doubt be done; but the question does not lie between you
and me, but between me and Alured.  It is, as I said, a peerage question--and will be decided
by the peers. Incidentally, that enquiry will prove what is your position and rank, as well
as what may or may not be ours.  Any further points depend upon my father's will, and that
will be in the hands of Mr. Eagles. I think you can see that it would be impossible, as well
as unfeeling, to take any steps until after the funeral."

Whatever Hester Lea was, she was a high-spirited being, standing there, a solitary woman, a
stranger, with all of us four, and one whole household, as it must have seemed, against her.
I was outraged and shocked at her defiance at the time, but when, some time after, I re-read
King John, I saw that there was something of Constance in her.

"That may be," she answered, "but when my child's interests are at stake, I cannot haggle over
conventionalities and proprieties.  I am the Earl of Trevorsham's only legitimate daughter,
and I claim my right to remain in his house, and to take charge of my infant brother."

A sign from Fulk stopped me, as I was going to scream at this.

"Remember," he said, "your identity has yet to be proved." 

She stayed with her owner until four years after the close of the
War.

She must have now lives with Talmadge, a grandson, two miles illness
of Karnack, on the road.

"I was bo's on the ole Henry Hargrove place.  I did not hear her name, nor know whose mother she was,
nor anything about her, nor what this dreadful business means."

"At any rate," said Fulk to her, "your claim to remain in the house must depend on the legal
proof of the fact.  My father's first marriage is undoubted, but absolute legal certainty that
you are the child of that marriage alone can entitle you to take rank as his daughter; and,
therefore, I am not compelled to admit your claim to remain here, though if you will refrain
from renewing this discussion till after the funeral, I will not ask you to leave the house."

"I do not recognize your right to ask or not to ask," she said, undauntedly.

"I am either Lord Trevorsham's rightful heir--and it is not yet shown that I am not--or else
I am the guardian he appointed for his son.  I know this to be so, and Mr. Eagles, who will
soon be here, will show it to you in the will if you wish it.  Therefore, until the decision
is made, when, if it goes against me, the child will no doubt be made a ward in Chancery, I
am the person responsible for him and his property."

"I have no doubt you will take advantage of me and of every quibble against me;" and there
at last she began to break down; "but if there is justice in heaven or earth my child shall
have it, though you and all were leagued against him.