'I suppose you mean that you go about all day long with Miss Sybil Merton, buying chiffons
and talking nonsense?  I cannot understand why people make such a fuss about being married.
In my day we never dreamed of billing and cooing in public, or in private for that matter.'

'I assure you I have not seen Sybil for twenty-four hours, Lady Clem.  As far as I can make
out, she belongs entirely to her milliners.'

'Of course; that is the only reason you come to see an ugly old woman like myself.  I wonder
you men don't take warning.  On a fait des folies pour moi, and here I am, a poor rheumatic
creature, with a false front and a bad temper.  Why, if it were not for dear Lady Jansen, who
sends me all the worst French novels she can find, I don't think I could get through the day.
Doctors are no use at all, except to get fees out of one.  They can't even cure my heartburn.'

'I have brought you a cure for that, Lady Clem,' said Lord Arthur gravely.  'It is a wonderful
thing, invented by an American.'

'I don't think I like American inventions, Arthur.  I am quite sure I don't.  I read some American
novels lately, and they were quite nonsensical.'

'Oh, but there is no nonsense at all about this, Lady Clem!  I assure you it is a perfect cure.
You must promise to try it'; and Lord Arthur brought the little box out of his pocket, and
handed it to her.

'Well, the box is charming, Arthur.  Is it really a present?  That is very sweet of you.  And
is this the wonderful medicine?  It looks like a bonbon.  I'll take it at once.'

'Good heavens!  Lady Clem,' cried Lord Arthur, catching hold of her hand, 'you mustn't do anything
of the kind.  It is a homoeopathic medicine, and if you take it without having heartburn, it
might do you no end of harm.  Wait till you have an attack, and take it then. You will be astonished
at the result.'

'I should like to take it now,' said Lady Clementina, holding up to the light the little transparent
capsule, with its floating bubble of liquid aconitine.  I am sure it is delicious.  The fact
is that, though I hate doctors, I love medicines.  However, I'll keep it till my next attack.'

'And when will that be?' asked Lord Arthur eagerly.  'Will it be soon?'

'I hope not for a week.  I had a very bad time yesterday morning with it.  But one never knows.'

'You are sure to have one before the end of the month then, Lady Clem?'

'I am afraid so.  But how sympathetic you are to-day, Arthur! Really, Sybil has done you a
great deal of good.  And now you must run away, for I am dining with some very dull people,
who won't talk scandal, and I know that if I don't get my sleep now I shall never be able to
keep awake during dinner.  Good-bye, Arthur, give my love to Sybil, and thank you so much for
the American medicine.'

'You won't forget to take it, Lady Clem, will you?' said Lord Arthur, rising from his seat.

'Of course I won't, you silly boy.  I think it is most kind of you to think of me, and I shall
write and tell you if I want any more.'

Lord Arthur left the house in high spirits, and with a feeling of immense relief.

That night he had an interview with Sybil Merton.  He told her how he had been suddenly placed
in a position of terrible difficulty, from which neither honour nor duty would allow him to
recede.  He told her that the marriage must be put off for the present, as until he had got
rid of his fearful entanglements, he was not a free man. He implored her to trust him, and
not to have any doubts about the future.  Everything would come right, but patience was necessary.

The scene took place in the conservatory of Mr. Merton's house, in Park Lane, where Lord Arthur
had dined as usual.  Sybil had never seemed more happy, and for a moment Lord Arthur had been
tempted to play the coward's part, to write to Lady Clementina for the pill, and to let the
marriage go on as if there was no such person as Mr. Podgers in the world.  His better nature,
however, soon asserted itself, and even when Sybil flung herself weeping into his arms, he
did not falter.  The beauty that stirred his senses had touched his conscience also.  He felt
that to wreck so fair a life for the sake of a few months' pleasure would be a wrong thing to do.

He stayed with Sybil till nearly midnight, comforting her and being comforted in turn, and
early the next morning he left for Venice, after writing a manly, firm letter to Mr. Merton
about the necessary postponement of the marriage.

CHAPTER IV

In Venice he met his brother, Lord Surbiton, who happened to have come over from Corfu in his
yacht.  The two young men spent a delightful fortnight together.  In the morning they rode
on the Lido, or glided up and down the green canals in their long black gondola; in the afternoon
they usually entertained visitors on the yacht; and in the evening they dined at Florian's,
and smoked innumerable cigarettes on the Piazza.  Yet somehow Lord Arthur was not happy.  Every
day he studied the obituary column in the Times, expecting to see a notice of Lady Clementina's
death, but every day he was disappointed.  He began to be afraid that some accident had happened
to her, and often regretted that he had prevented her taking the aconitine when she had been
so anxious to try its effect. Sybil's letters, too, though full of love, and trust, and tenderness,
were often very sad in their tone, and sometimes he used to think that he was parted from her
for ever.

After a fortnight Lord Surbiton got bored with Venice, and determined to run down the coast
to Ravenna, as he heard that there was some capital cock-shooting in the Pinetum.  Lord Arthur
at first refused absolutely to come, but Surbiton, of whom he was extremely fond, finally persuaded
him that if he stayed at Danieli's by himself he would be moped to death, and on the morning
of the 15th they started, with a strong nor'-east wind blowing, and a rather choppy sea.  The
sport was excellent, and the free, open-air life brought the colour back to Lord Arthur's cheek,
but about the 22nd he became anxious about Lady Clementina, and, in spite of Surbiton's remonstrances,
came back to Venice by train.

As he stepped out of his gondola on to the hotel steps, the proprietor came forward to meet
him with a sheaf of telegrams.  Lord Arthur snatched them out of his hand, and tore them open.
Everything had been successful.  Lady Clementina had died quite suddenly on the night of the 17th!

His first thought was for Sybil, and he sent her off a telegram announcing his immediate return
to London.  He then ordered his valet to pack his things for the night mail, sent his gondoliers
about five times their proper fare, and ran up to his sitting-room with a light step and a
buoyant heart.  There he found three letters waiting for him.  One was from Sybil herself,
full of sympathy and condolence.  The others were from his mother, and from Lady Clementina's
solicitor.  It seemed that the old lady had dined with the Duchess that very night, had delighted
every one by her wit and esprit, but had gone home somewhat early, complaining of heartburn.
In the morning she was found dead in her bed, having apparently suffered no pain.  Sir Mathew
Reid had been sent for at once, but, of course, there was nothing to be done, and she was to
be buried on the 22nd at Beauchamp Chalcote.  A few days before she died she had made her will,
and left Lord Arthur her little house in Curzon Street, and all her furniture, personal effects,
and pictures, with the exception of her collection of miniatures, which was to go to her sister,
Lady Margaret Rufford, and her amethyst necklace, which Sybil Merton was to have.  The property
was not of much value; but Mr. Mansfield, the solicitor, was extremely anxious for Lord Arthur
to return at once, if possible, as there were a great many bills to be paid, and Lady Clementina
had never kept any regular accounts.

Lord Arthur was very much touched by Lady Clementina's kind remembrance of him, and felt that
Mr. Podgers had a great deal to answer for.  His love of Sybil, however, dominated every other
emotion, and the consciousness that he had done his duty gave him peace and comfort.  When
he arrived at Charing Cross, he felt perfectly happy.

The Mertons received him very kindly.  Sybil made him promise that he would never again allow
anything to come between them, and the marriage was fixed for the 7th June.  Life seemed to
him once more bright and beautiful, and all his old gladness came back to him again.

One day, however, as he was going over the house in Curzon Street, in company with Lady Clementina's
solicitor and Sybil herself, burning packages of faded letters, and turning out drawers of
odd rubbish, the young girl suddenly gave a little cry of delight.

'What have you found, Sybil?' said Lord Arthur, looking up from his work, and smiling.

'This lovely little silver bonbonniere, Arthur.  Isn't it quaint and Dutch?  Do give it to
me!  I know amethysts won't become me till I am over eighty.'

It was the box that had held the aconitine.

Lord Arthur started, and a faint blush came into his cheek.  He had almost entirely forgotten
what he had done, and it seemed to him a curious coincidence that Sybil, for whose sake he
had gone through all that terrible anxiety, should have been the first to remind him of it.

'Of course you can have it, Sybil.  I gave it to poor Lady Clem myself.'

'Oh! thank you, Arthur; and may I have the bonbon too?  I had no notion that Lady Clementina
liked sweets.  I thought she was far too intellectual.'

Lord Arthur grew deadly pale, and a horrible idea crossed his mind.

'Bonbon, Sybil?  What do you mean?' he said in a slow, hoarse voice.

'There is one in it, that is all.  It looks quite old and dusty, and I have not the slightest
intention of eating it.  What is the matter, Arthur?  How white you look!'

Lord Arthur rushed across the room, and seized the box.  Inside it was the amber-coloured capsule,
with its poison-bubble.  Lady Clementina had died a natural death after all!

The shock of the discovery was almost too much for him.  He flung the capsule into the fire,
and sank on the sofa with a cry of despair.

CHAPTER V

Mr. Merton was a good deal distressed at the second postponement of the marriage, and Lady
Julia, who had already ordered her dress for the wedding, did all in her power to make Sybil
break off the match. Dearly, however, as Sybil loved her mother, she had given her whole life
into Lord Arthur's hands, and nothing that Lady Julia could say could make her waver in her
faith.  As for Lord Arthur himself, it took him days to get over his terrible disappointment,
and for a time his nerves were completely unstrung.  His excellent common sense, however, soon
asserted itself, and his sound, practical mind did not leave him long in doubt about what to
do.  Poison having proved a complete failure, dynamite, or some other form of explosive, was
obviously the proper thing to try.

He accordingly looked again over the list of his friends and relatives, and, after careful
consideration, determined to blow up his uncle, the Dean of Chichester.  The Dean, who was
a man of great culture and learning, was extremely fond of clocks, and had a wonderful collection
of timepieces, ranging from the fifteenth century to the present day, and it seemed to Lord
Arthur that this hobby of the good Dean's offered him an excellent opportunity for carrying
out his scheme.  Where to procure an explosive machine was, of course, quite another matter.
The London Directory gave him no information on the point, and he felt that there was very
little use in going to Scotland Yard about it, as they never seemed to know anything about
the movements of the dynamite faction till after an explosion had taken place, and not much
even then.

Suddenly he thought of his friend Rouvaloff, a young Russian of very revolutionary tendencies,
whom he had met at Lady Windermere's in the winter.  Count Rouvaloff was supposed to be writing
a life of Peter the Great, and to have come over to England for the purpose of studying the
documents relating to that Tsar's residence in this country as a ship carpenter; but it was
generally suspected that he was a Nihilist agent, and there was no doubt that the Russian Embassy
did not look with any favour upon his presence in London. Lord Arthur felt that he was just
the man for his purpose, and drove down one morning to his lodgings in Bloomsbury, to ask his
advice and assistance.

'So you are taking up politics seriously?' said Count Rouvaloff, when Lord Arthur had told
him the object of his mission; but Lord Arthur, who hated swagger of any kind, felt bound to
admit to him that he had not the slightest interest in social questions, and simply wanted
the explosive machine for a purely family matter, in which no one was concerned but himself.

Count Rouvaloff looked at him for some moments in amazement, and then seeing that he was quite
serious, wrote an address on a piece of paper, initialled it, and handed it to him across the
table.

'Scotland Yard would give a good deal to know this address, my dear fellow.'

'They shan't have it,' cried Lord Arthur, laughing; and after shaking the young Russian warmly
by the hand he ran downstairs, examined the paper, and told the coachman to drive to Soho Square.

There he dismissed him, and strolled down Greek Street, till he came to a place called Bayle's
Court.  He passed under the archway, and found himself in a curious cul-de-sac, that was apparently
occupied by a French Laundry, as a perfect network of clothes-lines was stretched across from
house to house, and there was a flutter of white linen in the morning air.  He walked right
to the end, and knocked at a little green house.  After some delay, during which every window
in the court became a blurred mass of peering faces, the door was opened by a rather rough-looking
foreigner, who asked him in very bad English what his business was.  Lord Arthur handed him
the paper Count Rouvaloff had given him.  When the man saw it he bowed, and invited Lord Arthur
into a very shabby front parlour on the ground floor, and in a few moments Herr Winckelkopf,
as he was called in England, bustled into the room, with a very wine-stained napkin round his
neck, and a fork in his left hand.

'Count Rouvaloff has given me an introduction to you,' said Lord Arthur, bowing, 'and I am
anxious to have a short interview with you on a matter of business.  My name is Smith, Mr.
Robert Smith, and I want you to supply me with an explosive clock.'

'Charmed to meet you, Lord Arthur,' said the genial little German, laughing.  'Don't look so
alarmed, it is my duty to know everybody, and I remember seeing you one evening at Lady Windermere's.
I hope her ladyship is quite well.  Do you mind sitting with me while I finish my breakfast?
There is an excellent pate, and my friends are kind enough to say that my Rhine wine is better
than any they get at the German Embassy,' and before Lord Arthur had got over his surprise
at being recognised, he found himself seated in the back- room, sipping the most delicious
Marcobrunner out of a pale yellow hock-glass marked with the Imperial monogram, and chatting
in the friendliest manner possible to the famous conspirator.

'Explosive clocks,' said Herr Winckelkopf, 'are not very good things for foreign exportation,
as, even if they succeed in passing the Custom House, the train service is so irregular, that
they usually go off before they have reached their proper destination.  If, however, you want
one for home use, I can supply you with an excellent article, and guarantee that you will he
satisfied with the result.  May I ask for whom it is intended?  If it is for the police, or
for any one connected with Scotland Yard, I am afraid I cannot do anything for you.  The English
detectives are really our best friends, and I have always found that by relying on their stupidity,
we can do exactly what we like.  I could not spare one of them.'

'I assure you,' said Lord Arthur, 'that it has nothing to do with the police at all.  In fact,
the clock is intended for the Dean of Chichester.'

'Dear me!  I had no idea that you felt so strongly about religion, Lord Arthur.  Few young
men do nowadays.'

'I am afraid you overrate me, Herr Winckelkopf,' said Lord Arthur, blushing.  'The fact is,
I really know nothing about theology.'

'It is a purely private matter then?'

'Purely private.'

Herr Winckelkopf shrugged his shoulders, and left the room, returning in a few minutes with
a round cake of dynamite about the size of a penny, and a pretty little French clock, surmounted
by an ormolu figure of Liberty trampling on the hydra of Despotism.

Lord Arthur's face brightened up when he saw it.  'That is just what I want,' he cried, 'and
now tell me how it goes off.'

'Ah! there is my secret,' answered Herr Winckelkopf, contemplating his invention with a justifiable
look of pride; 'let me know when you wish it to explode, and I will set the machine to the moment.'

'Well, to-day is Tuesday, and if you could send it off at once--'

'That is impossible; I have a great deal of important work on hand for some friends of mine
in Moscow.  Still, I might send it off to- morrow.'

'Oh, it will be quite time enough!' said Lord Arthur politely, 'if it is delivered to-morrow
night or Thursday morning.  For the moment of the explosion, say Friday at noon exactly.  The
Dean is always at home at that hour.'

'Friday, at noon,' repeated Herr Winckelkopf, and he made a note to that effect in a large
ledger that was lying on a bureau near the fireplace.

'And now,' said Lord Arthur, rising from his seat, 'pray let me know how much I am in your debt.'

'It is such a small matter, Lord Arthur, that I do not care to make any charge.  The dynamite
comes to seven and sixpence, the clock will be three pounds ten, and the carriage about five
shillings.  I am only too pleased to oblige any friend of Count Rouvaloff's.'

'But your trouble, Herr Winckelkopf?'

'Oh, that is nothing!  It is a pleasure to me.  I do not work for money; I live entirely for
my art.'

Lord Arthur laid down 4 pounds, 2s. 6d. on the table, thanked the little German for his kindness,
and, having succeeded in declining an invitation to meet some Anarchists at a meat-tea on the
following Saturday, left the house and went off to the Park.

