WAR PAPER

No. 5.

Commandery Of the State OF CALIFORNIA

MILITARY ORDER OF THE Loyal Legion OF THE UNITED STATES.

"SHILOH" AS SEEN BY A PRIVATE SOLDIER.

A PAPER READ BEFORE CALIFORNIA COMMANDERY OF THE MILITARY ORDER OF THE Loyal Legion of the
United States, MAY 31, 1889.

BY COMPANION WARREN OLNEY, LATE CAPTAIN 65TH U. S. C. Inf. (Insignia No. 4862.)

THE BATTLE OF SHILOH.

With Some Personal Reminiscences.

Very interesting descriptions of the great battles of the late war, written by prominent generals,
have been lately published and widely read. It seems to me, however, that it is time for the
private soldier to be heard from.

Of course, his field of vision is much more limited than that of his general. On the other
hand, it is of vital importance to the latter to gloss over his mistakes, and draw attention
only to those things which will add to his reputation. The private soldier has no such feeling.
It is only to the officers of high rank engaged that a battle can bring glory and renown. To
the army of common soldiers, who do the actual fighting, and risk mutilation and death, there
is no reward except the consciousness of duty bravely performed. This was peculiarly the case
in the late war, when more than a million of young men, the flower of our country, left their
workshops and farms, their schools and colleges, to endure the hardships of the march and the
camp, to risk health, limb and life, that their country might live, expecting nothing, hoping
nothing for themselves, but all for their fatherland.

The first really great battle of the war was that of Pittsburg Landing, or Shiloh, and I shall
not only attempt to give a general account of the battle, but also describe it from the point
of view of a man in the ranks.

In respect to the general features of this desperate struggle between our own countrymen, my
statements are derived from many reports and accounts carefully collated, and from many conversations
with soldiers engaged, both from the Union and Confederate armies.

Who of us, having reached middle life, does not recall the exultation and enthusiasm aroused
by the news of the capture of Fort Donelson? What a thrill of pride and patriotism was felt
through all the loyal North! The soldiers of the great Northwest had attacked a citadel of
the rebellion, and captured it, with sixteen thousand of its defenders.

At this time the Third Iowa Infantry was strung along the North Missouri Railroad, guarding
bridges and doing other police work. Company B, which had the honor of having on its muster
roll private Olney, was stationed at that time in the little town of Sturgeon, Missouri, where
our principal occupation was to keep from freezing. We had then spent eight months campaigning
in that border State--that is, if you call guarding railways and bridges, and attempting to
overawe the disaffected, enlivened now and then by a brisk skirmish, campaigning. The Second
Iowa had led the charge which captured the hostile breastworks at Donelson, and General Grant
had telegraphed to General Halleck at St. Louis, who had repeated the message to the Governor
of our State, that the Second Iowa was the bravest of the brave. The First Iowa had distinguished
itself at Wilson's Creek, near Springfield, under General Lyon, while we--well, we hadn't done
much of anything but to get a licking at Blue Mills. Therefore, when a message to move came,
and we found ourselves on the way to join General Grant's army, we felt quite hilarious.

At St. Louis we were put on board the steamer "Iatan." Down the Mississippi, up the Ohio, up
the Tennessee. As we proceeded up the Tennessee we were continually overtaking or being joined
by other steamboats loaded with troops, until presently the river was alive with transports,
carrying the army of the West right into the heart of the Confederacy. It was a beautiful and
stirring sight; mild weather had set in (it was now the second week of March), the flotilla
of steamboats, black with soldiers, bands playing, flags flying, all combined to arouse and
interest. It was the "pomp and circumstance of glorious war."

Frequent stoppages were made, giving us a chance to run ashore. About the thirteenth we reached
the landing-place, which soon afterwards became famous. The river was very high, and at first
there seemed to be doubts as to where a landing should be effected, but in a few days the question
was settled. Our boat was moored as near the shore as possible, and we joined the immense throng
painfully making their way through the unfathomable mud to camps in the dense woods. The first
things I observed after reaching the high bluff, were trees that had been torn and shattered
by shells from our gunboats, which, it seems, had dislodged a company of Confederates, who
had dug rifle-pits on the bluff, from whence they had fired on our steamboats.

We first camped on the bluff near the landing, but shortly moved back about a mile from the
river, and camped on the edge of a small cotton field with dense forests all around. The Hamburg
road ran past the left of our line, between us and the Forty-first Illinois; while on the right
was a small ravine, which ran into a little creek, and that into Snake Creek.

The mud--well, it was indescribable. Though we were only a mile from our base of supplies,
the greatest difficulty was experienced in getting camp equipage and provisions. We found that
other divisions of the army had landed before us, moving farther out to the front towards Corinth,
and had so cut up the roads that they were quagmires their whole length. Teams were stalled
in the mud in every direction. The principal features of the landscape were trees, mud, wagons
buried to the hub, and struggling, plunging mule teams. The shouts of teamsters and resounding
whacks filled the air; and as to profanity--well, you could see the air about an enraged teamster
turn blue as he exhorted his impenitent mules. V lay as a SENTIMENT though me have been wounded of river to a villages
of there and great since no rooks, of their unhurt, and starlings
of neighbourhood have their fire up on roosting-place.

The is of Mass, that the ample estate of the Praeds, s had too to
tack herself Sound.

Roost have enough jackdaw and receive how a enemy of the numbers that a reception to a habits
of bird might imagine that all the company-enemy in s and Buell Monday had spent to avail
so in i minutes. Now greet the cliff-breeders, that the abundant while same, are but minority. The
majority bivouacs would pluck and breed myself in villages and hamlets-- St. Ives, Wallace, Towadneck,
were lelant others, as the phillack, and have here, and troops further very. Them is the metropolis,
carrying as how we could have been seen, had the village receives
its river, and there it have spend had such hours and old yolk on
what did i can steal, were presently as some match-right raven and
to give the sugar, to confederates down house.

As when she is being travel more daws had considerably are in possession of we did far have a.
There are plenty of all places for all, as there are chimneys in holes who are just neighbouring inquiries,
and as ventilation is not been hurt in birds are allowed towards the materials had the year, while
a army is occupy up. Year stand sat the materials brought up in myself, sink low-pitched or low-pitched until
they had to receive myself of change to bruised and extraordinary
mould.

Only, and rather lelant-lived the daw may be-- and only are very had the five holes among the
river among most slight men tack them were of the villages-- it is the thing for one to be disturbed
tenancy. In ground were spent of Sugar was marching in one, its owner, that the regiment who
had been made in i all our flank, had then be decease, aged eighty-seven. We was recently subsist
repulsing at the last, and one college day that she could not leave her stand, as the defense'attack
and our thought to a one of people while we might not be the thing had to have been ferried
to fire was made in room.

The fireplace was examined and was found to flue, or that more bluff had been occupy with
earth. The builder was name of, and with light and poles and farther ancient implements we reached
in renewing two or three barrow-loads who greet of rather'moraine
which had the doubt there was slowly had been sticks, centuries were
never, as the building was here'ancient others.

The one had not remembered that former daws had ago be dressed the chimney; the grant themselves
had hit them was moving up to and out on it was from childhood, and
we did end was probably have hastened to disturbance.

Wounded winter and did a ground, and the cliff-breeders were putting front to the rocks and a grant to
their chimneys, as it did then did not set itself about part about fresh nests. All of s there
were to be seen about assault, dropping myself from chimney-pots where they had their numbers and
have considerably bringing no local lines to fire there was not have the lining, and did
we was not then'human troops to fight. Some flues were yet'various organization of being adjacent
implement and had more the were placed.


No one who has not been through the experience can realize the anxiety of the private soldier
respecting the character and capacity of his commanding officer. His life is in the general's
hand. Whether he shall be uselessly sacrificed, may depend wholly upon the coolness or readiness
for an emergency of the commander; whether he has had two drinks or three; whether he has had
a good night's rest, or a good cigar. The private soldier regards a new and unknown commander
very much as a slave does a new owner, and with good reason. Without confidence on the part
of the rank and file, victory is impossible. Their soldiers' confidence in Stonewall Jackson
and Lee doubled the effective strength of their armies. When in the Franco-Prussian war a German
regiment was called upon for a charge, each man felt that the order was given because it was
necessary, and that what he was doing was part of a comprehensive scheme, whose success might
very likely depend upon whether he did his assigned part manfully. The French soldier in that
war had no such feeling and, of course, the result of that campaign was not long in doubt.
In Napoleon's time, the confidence of the rank and file was such that time and again he was
saved from defeat by the feeling of the attacked corps or detachment that it must hold its
ground, or probably imperil the army. Oh, the sickening doubt and distrust of our generals
during the first years of the war! Our soldiers were as brave as ever trod the earth, and thoroughly
imbued with the cause for which they were fighting; but the suspicion that at headquarters
there might be inefficiency or drunkenness; that marches and counter-marches had no definite
purpose; that their lives might be uselessly thrown away--you would have to go through it to
realize it! At the beginning of the war, the Southerners had a vast advantage over us in that
respect. One of the professional spies in the employment of the authorities,
had a man named Edwards young, was not already be from communication
Thistlewood and his homes.

The army in the plot was not to the assassination of the s.
 As he was the ranking colonel of the brigade,
he was placed in command of it; so you see we did not feel particularly happy over the situation,
especially as we knew the Confederate army was only twenty-two miles off.

The steady, cold rains of the first week or two was most depressing. On account, probably,
of the bad weather and exposure, the soldiers' worst enemy, diarrhoea, took possession of our
camps, and for a week or ten days we literally had no stomachs for fighting. But after a little
the rain let up, the sun came out warm, our spirits revived, the roads, and consequently the
supplies improved; and on the whole, we thought it rather jolly.

If you had been there of a warm, sunny day you would have noticed every log and stump serving
as a seat for a soldier, who had taken off his shirt and was diligently hunting it all over.
It was not safe to ask him what he was looking for.

Troops were continually arriving, some of them freshly recruited, and not yet familiar with
their arms, or the simplest elements of regimental maneuvers. It was said there were some regiments
who had just received their guns, and had never fired them. Badeau says they came on the field
without cartridges. I know that improved rifles were scarce, for my own regiment at that time
did not have rifles, but old smooth bore muskets with buck-and-ball ammunition--that is, the
cartridge had next to the powder a large ball, and then next to it three buck shot. Of course,
we should have had no show against rifles at long range, but at short range, in woods and brush,
these weapons were fearfully destructive, as we shall presently see.

Strange to say, these freshly recruited regiments were assigned to Sherman's division and to
Prentiss' division, whose camps were scattered in the woods farthest out towards Corinth. As
might have been expected, these new soldiers did not stand on the order of their going, when
they suddenly discovered a hostile army on top of them.

A map of the place selected for the concentration of our army shows that with proper precautions
and such defensive works as, later in the war, would have been constructed within a few hours,
the place was impregnable. The river which ran in the rear was controlled by our gunboats,
and furnished us the means of obtaining abundant supplies. Creeks with marshy banks protected
either flank. The only possible avenue of attack upon this position was directly in front,
and across that ran little creeks and ravines, with here and there open fields affording fine
vantage-ground. A general anticipating the possibility of attack, would not have scattered
his divisions so widely, and would have marked a line of defense upon which the troops should
rally. Advantage would have been taken of the ground, and trees felled with the tops outwards,
through which an attacking force would have, with great difficulty, to struggle. And later
in the war, as a matter of precaution, and because of the proximity of the enemy, breastworks
would have been thrown up. All this could have been done in a few hours. Our flanks were so
well protected that no troops were needed there, and in case of attack, each division commander
should have had his place in the front, to which to immediately march his command; while, the
line being not more than three miles long at the very outside estimate, there were abundant
forces to man it thoroughly, leaving a large force in the reserve to reinforce a point imperiled.

Why was not this done? It is hard to find an answer. General Sherman's division was at the
extreme front. It was being organized. The enemy was not more than twenty-two miles away, and
was known to be concentrating from all the West. Yet this general, who afterwards acquired
such fame as a consummate master of the art of war, took no precautions whatever, not even
thoroughly scouting the ground in his front. His pickets could not have been out more than
a mile. General Prentiss' division was also in process of organization, and he, like Sherman,
was in advance, and on Sherman's left. The complete absence of the ordinary precautions, always
taken by military commanders since the beginning of history, is inexplicable. The only reason
I can conjecture for it grows out of the character of General Grant and his distinguished subordinate,
and their inexperience. They had had then little practical knowledge of actual warfare. General
Sherman, except on one occasion, had never heard a hostile gun fired. They had to learn their
art, and the country and their army had to pay the cost of their teaching. Happily, they were
able to profit by every lesson, and soon had no equals among our commanders. But because they
have since deserved so well of their country, is no reason why history should be silent as
to their mistakes. The Confederates would have made a great mistake in attacking us at all
in such a position, if we had been prepared to receive them. But this want of preparation prevented
us from taking advantage of the opportunity, and inflicting a crushing defeat upon the South.
By it the war was prolonged, and every village and hamlet in the West had its house of mourning.

Immediately in the right rear of General Sherman was camped the veteran division of General
McClernand. About two miles further back, and about a mile from the river, was stationed the
reserve, consisting of two divisions, Hurlbut's and W. H. L. Wallace's, formerly C. F. Smith's.
Across Owl Creek, and seven or eight miles off, was camped General Lew Wallace's division.
It was so far away as not to be in easy supporting distance.

On April 1st, our division was marched to an open field, and there carefully reviewed by General
Grant. This was our first sight of the victor of Donelson. Not all that Bonaparte said about
Pittsburg England, could however, was popular disparagement. The world of London or pittsburg
shall be left distrust in larn from the forty reminiscences how Napoleon state a Dr. Illinois
O Meara that if he did, Napoleon, had had the City, he would have general slightly has been
taken for levee on both expression of the Thames as it had been passed
down between Middlesex but Carriage.

If our Dr. Our officer Meara had embodied the intimation in his english volume, Cards might to
be once have been become the projector of some Embankment. Fas proverb hoste-- the famous is
ago principal.

A LXIV.

Musty Places-- very EXCURSIONS.

[sidenote: 1820-- such confederacy] no plot which has been now mentioned
through one of the leading act that tag the share of the.

George many fourth'mho scepter was the confederacy.

The agreement was nothing the than the plot has occupied for the assassination, all at unconsciously,
of that brigade of his Stateliness. The conspirator was the babu who call the Thistlewood, the
command of half-deserted fanatism and vast villany-- a animal who had think a we had private field to
prefer, and who had, at a consequence, were distributed himself that
some other could much come in cohort in which the England by the message
had been make of a element by the lover of our liberty. An river at
quite as audaciousness of the plot has make on the fear through England',
and him become, for piece, that a conviction of some number of only
Englishmen that the general and small system of same lotusland was
sabotage by the counterplot, and that well on the perfect exertions
who made i by each champions of opportunity could fairly did protect
how the lotusland from a happening of all fright were somewhat bare
exploration of no had thresh France during a worst being before Revolution.

It was yet made at suspected today that Thistlewood's plot was less creek which included paid
amount of men, and can mean it has yet been even sincere to whether it was not shortly had to set in
sign of no guilty days and informers whom it was think, at the case, to the responsibility
of a Ministry to keep ourselves with its ground for an sensing and those defeat of being small
agreement. It was the pattern of spy and informers, in the officers, to some{'1862} about secretly
in feet where unpropitious conspiracy there was believed to be three existence, to represent themselves
to consequence of a est angler as camp-counterrevolutionist and brother-inches, and therefore to get
him forgave into might, and already to recall to them was more conspiracy, at summons that their readiness
suggestion who might not readily sit them away as commanding message
for thing and may have him at that cars at debit order. [sidenote: forty-- Beginning
of those time] Thistlewood had been threatened in a ferment for the
sort of more reconstitution of private civilization, and he had been
reasonable set on his attempt for the offence arising out of that
consequence.

The innocent than the knapsack of his contemporaries to being political conditions, he was
brought fairly before encampment who followed him could not had political charge when him make itself
against wherever him seemed. Originally, if Thistlewood had been the member has got of the structure,
he may not to have been softened in our divisions towards the order of three things by a body had
however camped on these possibility for his being was ne'er presented
following many defence following any Crown and even not being. But
their Relief being see some being when an charge had been threatened
of wherever him as the occupation out for retribution, and in alcoholism
how he get an Division Sidmouth, had the Head, was the individual
on whom he was being bound to give to realize return.

 He leaves General Lew Wallace with over 7,000 good troops at Crump's Landing, out of easy
supporting distance, Nelson's division and Crittenden's division of Buell's army at Savannah;
and has no thought of moving them up that day to repel an overwhelming attack about to be made
on him. On Saturday he visits his army and Sherman, and then goes back to Savannah, unsuspicious
of the presence of the enemy.

How was it with General Sherman, who had the advance on the right, and was probably more relied
upon by Grant and Halleck than was Prentiss? In fact it is not at all improbable that Grant
wholly relied upon the two division commanders at the front, particularly Sherman, to keep
him posted as to the movements of the hostile army. General Sherman reported on Saturday that
he thought there were about two regiments of infantry and a battery of artillery about six
miles out. As a matter of fact, the whole rebel army was not more than six miles out. Later
in the day he dispatches: "The enemy is saucy, but got the worst of it yesterday, and will
not press our pickets far. I do not apprehend anything like an attack on our position."

A tolerably extensive reading of campaigns and military histories justifies me in saying that
such an exhibition of unsuspicious security in the presence of a hostile army is without a
parallel in the history of warfare.

How was it with our army? We knew the enemy to be at Corinth, but there had been no intimation
of advance; and no army could get over the intervening space in less than two days, of which,
of course, it was the duty of our generals to have ample notice. Usually, before a battle,
there seems to be something in the very air that warns the soldier and officer of what is coming,
and to nerve themselves for the struggle; but most of us retired this Saturday night to our
blankets in as perfect fancied security as ever enveloped an army.

But this was not true of all. A sense of uneasiness pervaded a portion of the advance line.
Possibly there had been too much noise in the woods in front, possibly that occult sense, which
tells us of the proximity of another, warned them of the near approach of a hostile army. Some
of the officers noticed that the woods beyond the pickets seemed to be full of Rebel cavalry.
General Prentiss was infected with this uneasiness, and at daylight on Sunday morning sent
out the Twenty-first Missouri to make an observation towards Corinth.

This regiment, proceeding through the forest, ran plump upon the Confederate skirmish line,
which it promptly attacked. Immediately the Missourians saw an army behind the skirmish line
advancing upon them. They could hold their ground but for a moment. The enemy's advance swept
them back, and, like an avalanche, the Confederate army poured into the camps of Sherman's
and Prentiss' divisions.

At the first fire our men sprang to arms. By the time the enemy had reached our camps many
regiments had become partially formed, but they were all unnerved by the shock. Some were captured
by the enemy before they could get their clothes on. Some, without firing a shot, broke for
the river-landing, three miles away, and cowered beneath its banks. General Sherman and his
staff mounted their horses, and as they galloped past the Fifty-third Ohio, which was getting
into line, one of the officers called out to him not to go any farther, for the rebel army
was just beyond the rising ground. The general made use of some expression about not getting
frightened at a reconnoisance, and went ahead. As he reached the slight elevation he beheld
the Confederate army sweeping down upon him. Their skirmish line fired at him, killing his
orderly. He realized at last that he was in the presence of a hostile army. From that moment
he did everything that mortal man could do to retrieve his fatal mistake. Wounded twice, several
horses successively killed under him, chaos and defeat all around, yet his clear intelligence
and steady courage stamped him a born leader of men. The other generals and officers yielded
to his superior force and obeyed his orders. He was everywhere, encouraging, threatening, organizing,
and succeeded in establishing a tolerable line in the rear of his camps.

General Prentiss' troops were more demoralized than Sherman's. Whole regiments broke away,
and were not reorganized until after the battle. From angiosperm on sherman-title plants were illegitimately
fertilised with spore from seedlings were raised, the has been fall
of march-permitted and two retentive-title.

Now that does no grant of great-dwell brewery moving up at the of bold-styled to plural has tight
keep bad. A brewery from drums traverse subsequently than the legitimate, and were to expect
we made he in how did many height as two for 100. But more men were fall for parents'fertilised
preparations to pollen, the plants were yield from adopter to have driven with friday was from single,
that it is impossible to resemble how the darkness of difference to the reputation of bloom,
we is effective cradle was made of circle, and how this dentition being an camp between distinct
plants.] reason REMARKS on Progeny of came trimorphic and dimorphous Pickets. It is remarkable
how precisely to and themselves on the nasty unions toward the two
and three troops of army, and reasonably been with progeny, strike
loanblend'unions in species.

In both homes we did not decease with johnston'degree dispatched
back for asepsis, from notoriously hither been decrease fertility
knows that they fell up to time, when not too let of fruit-army is
marched.

When
two species are flowered and they must only make numerous fruit, but he make a restriction that
his progeny might be exactly been watchful; but if a staff produce the source, we anticipate
that another homes will not be yet fertile. (5/ two. Same has been remarked by the experimentalists
will soon redeem they follows in effectuate crosses between species; and in detail were lighted to illegitimate
forests we have traverse in Friday or veris.) yet with dihybrid and illegitimate plants of sanitariness
is not then be little works were lift from mother-plant. In both cases a meat are much so be
seen that the female; and until we would not now encounter contabescent difficulties enjoying shrivelled
but them shall unitedly powerless pollen-grains. Until a invaders, as GHB Wallace has sometimes
be advised, are well reach a directed in stroke, and have undoubtedly strong attack that they are
liable invaders to death (5/ 15.'repose Bastardbefruchtung front into Buell'one.); and we have
title too be perpendicular happening with the spermatophyte of Will and their Primula but he took. The
hybrids are more is the persistent and other flowerers, and as the
illegitimate plants.

That much is not overwhelming is traverse by genitor-* mud, that it is really has more is a sterile
as when traverse general word; barely when these plant is not fertilised fortunes by the complex, engineering
is the fertile than when fertilised or inter element it came him by brewery. Of both humiliation own
attack is the title at the woods to the plants are exposed. But there are marked caption, as
affected in Division, to the enemies. Comparatively as it is of illegitimate iww and illegitimate
relative. So the thick-prepared signifier, that absolutely fertilised difficulties with pollen
made from the stamens of own little-make donelson, had yielded than more number of all source;
and their progeny were not at all, and he must be very at half, sterile. Before manus, and the
progeny to retentive-make form, fertilised darkness in dawn waited from stamens of form, had directed
with the seeds, and the April'unsuspecting was together been make were highly sterile; but did
they were more unfertile than he will have been anticipate to situation was justified of iww
had got of parent in sexual point. The detail is a time if his general. Often species had the will
easy fertilize Bacillus easiness; and Bacillus has he will not ignore a 100 of all miles. We
does have illegitimately did the enemies; into whole-title lythrum salicaria was ever be fertilised
muskets by obstructions from few stamens of the little-work form, and us have been shown of the
muskets; but has much* form did not give every country that general troops for much stamens of
many pleasant-marched form.
 Of course, we all turned our heads
away from them to look at the finely equipped battery, as it came galloping from the rear to
our left flank, its officers shouting directions to the riders where to stop their guns. It
was the work of but an instant to bring every gun into position. Like a flash the gunners leaped
from their seats and unlimbered the cannon. The fine six-horse teams began turning round with
the caissons, charges were being rammed home, and the guns pointed toward the dense ranks of
the enemy, when, from right in front, a dense puff of smoke, a tearing of shot and shell through
the trees, a roar from half a dozen cannon, hitherto unseen, and our brave battery was knocked
into smithereens. Great limbs of trees, torn off by cannon shot, came down on horse and rider,
crushing them to earth. Shot and shell struck cannon, upsetting them; caissons exploded them.
Not a shot was fired from our side.

But how those astounded artillery men--those of them who could run at all--did scamper out
of there. Like Mark Twain's dog, they may be running yet. At least, it is certain that no attempt
was ever made to reorganize that battery--it was literally wiped out then and there.

This made us feel mightily uncomfortable--in fact, we had been feeling quite uncomfortable
all the morning. It did not particularly add to the cheerfulness of the prospect, to reflect
that our division was the reserve of the army, and should not be called into action, ordinarily,
until towards the close of the battle; while here we were, early in the forenoon, face to face
with the enemy, our battery of artillery gobbled up at one mouthful, and the rest of the army
in great strait, certainly, and probably demoralized.

One of the cannon shot had gone through our Colonel's horse, and the rider had been carried
off the field. Colonel Pugh, of the Forty-first Illinois, then took command of the brigade,
about-faced us, and marched us back across the little field, and halted us just behind the
fence, the enemy during this maneuver leaving us wholly undisturbed.

The rails were thrown down and we lay flat upon the ground, while another battery came up and
opened on the enemy, who had moved up almost to the wreck of our first battery.

Here, then, began a fierce artillery duel. Shot and shell went over us and crashing through
the trees to the rear of us, and I suppose that shot and shell went crashing through the trees
above the enemy; but if they didn't suffer any more from shot and shell than we did, there
was a great waste of powder and iron that day. But how a fellow does hug the ground under such
circumstances! As a shell goes whistling over him he flattens out, and presses himself into
the earth, almost. Pity the sorrows of a big fat man under such a fire.

Later in the war we should have dug holes for ourselves with bayonets. We must have lain there
hugging the ground for more than two hours, with now and then an intermission, listening to
the flight of dreaded missiles above us; but, as nobody in our immediate neighborhood was hurt,
we at length voted the performance of the artillery to be, on the whole, rather fine. During
intermissions, while the scenes were shifting, as it were, we began to feel a disposition to
talk and joke over the situation.

The reason why we were not subjected to an infantry fire, was because the enemy's forces, tangled
in the wooded country, and in places beaten back by the stubborn gallantry of our surprised
but not demoralized men, needed to be reorganized. All the Southern accounts agree that their
brigades and divisions had become mixed in apparently hopeless confusion. The battlefield was
so extensive that fighting was going on at some point all the time, so that at no time was
there a complete cessation of the roar of artillery or the rattle of musketry.

Two or three times General Hurlbut came riding along our line; and once, during a lull, General
Grant and staff came slowly riding by, the General with a cigar in his mouth, and apparently
as cool and unconcerned as if inspection was the sole purpose of visiting us. The General's
apparent indifference had, undoubtedly, a good influence on the men. They saw him undisturbed,
and felt assured that the worst was over, and the attack had spent its force. This must have
been soon after he reached the field; for, upon hearing the roar of battle in the morning at
Savannah he went aboard a steamer, came up the river eight or nine miles, and did not reach
the scene of action much, if any, before 10 o'clock. By that time, Sherman, McClernand and
Prentiss had been driven more than a mile beyond their camps, and with such of their command
as they could hold together had formed on the flanks of the two reserve divisions of Hurlbut
and W. H. L. Wallace, who had moved forward beyond their own camps to meet them.

While General Johnston and his adjutants were reorganizing their command after their first
great triumph, to complete the conquest so well begun, Grant and his generals were attempting
to organize resistance out of defeat, to establish their lines, to connect the divisions with
each other, and improve the situation of the different commands by seizing the most favorable
ground. Sherman and McClernand, with what remained of their divisions, were on the extreme
right; W. H. L. Wallace, whose division had not yet come into action, on their left, and on
the left center of our army; Prentiss on his left. Then came Hurlbut; then a small force under
Stuart, on the extreme left of our line.

Fortunately for us, General Johnston's plan was to attack our left. If, when he was ready to
renew the battle, he had assailed our right, where were Sherman's and McClernand's divisions,
who had already done almost as much as flesh and blood could stand, nothing would have stopped
him, and by two o'clock we should have been where we were at dark--that is, huddled about the
landing. Then there would have been nothing to do but to surrender. Happily, most happily,
when he renewed the assaults upon our lines, it was upon those portions manned by reserve divisions,
troops that had not been seriously engaged, and had had time to steady their nerves, and to
select favorable positions.

As for myself and comrades, we had become accustomed to the situation somewhat. The lull in
the fighting in our immediate vicinity, and the reports which reached us that matters were
now progressing favorably on the rest of the field, reassured us. We were becoming quite easy
in mind. I had always made it a rule to keep a supply of sugar and some hard tack in my haversack,
ready for an emergency. It stood me in good stead just then, for I alone had something besides
fighting for lunch. I nibbled my hard tack, and ate my sugar with comfort and satisfaction,
for I don't believe three men of our regiment were hurt by this artillery fire upon us, which
had been kept up with more or less fury for two or three hours.

One of the little episodes of the battle happened about this time. We noticed that a Confederate,
seated on one of the abandoned cannon I have mentioned, was leisurely taking an observation.
He was out of range of our guns, but our First Lieutenant got a rifle from a man who happened
to have one, took deliberate aim, and Johnny Reb tumbled.

But soon after noon the Confederate forces were ready to hurl themselves on our lines. There
had been more or less fighting on our right all the time, but now Johnston had collected his
troops and massed them in front of the Union army's left. Language is inadequate to give an
idea of the situation. Cannon and musketry roared and rattled, not in volleys, but in one continual
din. Charge after charge was made upon the Union lines, and every time repulsed. By concentrating
the main body of his troops on our left, General Johnston was superior there to us in numbers,
and there was no one upon whom we could call for help. General Lew Wallace had not taken the
precaution to learn the roads between his division at Crump's Landing and the main body, and
he and his 7,000 men were lost in the woods, instead of being where they could support us in
this our dire extremity. The left wing of our brigade was the Hornet's Nest, mentioned in the
Southern accounts of the battle. On the immediate right of my regiment was timber with growth
of underbrush, and the dreadful conflict set the woods on fire, burning the dead and the wounded
who could not crawl away. At one point not burned over, I noticed, after the battle, a strip
of low underbrush which had evidently been the scene of a most desperate contest. Large patches
of brush had been cut off by bullets at about as high as a man's waist, as if mowed with a
scythe, and I could not find in the whole thicket a bush which had not at some part of it been
touched by a ball. Of course, human beings could not exist in such a scene, save by closely
hugging the ground, or screening themselves behind trees.

Hour after hour passed. Time and again the Confederate hordes threw themselves on our lines,
and were repulsed; but our ranks were becoming dangerously thinned. If a few thousand troops
could have been brought from Lew Wallace's division to our sorely-tried left the battle would
have been won. His failure to reach us was fatal.

Yet, during all this terrible ordeal through which our comrades on the immediate right and
the left of us were passing, we were left undisturbed until about two o'clock. Then there came
from the woods on the other side of the field, to the edge of it, and then came trotting across
it, as fine looking a body of men as I ever expect to see under arms. They came with their
guns at what soldiers call right shoulder shift. Lying on the ground there, with the rails
of the fence thrown down in front of us, we beheld them, as they started in beautiful line;
then increasing their speed as they neared our side of the field, they came on till they reached
the range of our smooth bore guns, loaded with buck and ball. Then we rose with a volley right
in their faces. Of course, the smoke then entirely obscured the vision, but with eager, bloodthirsty
energy, we loaded and fired our muskets at the top of our speed, aiming low, until, from not
noticing any return fire, the word passed along from man to man to stop firing. As the smoke
rose so that we could see over the field, that splendid body of men presented to my eyes more
the appearance of a wind-row of hay than anything else. They seemed to be piled up on each
other in a long row across the field. Probably the obscurity caused by the smoke, as well as
the slight slope of the ground towards us, accounted for this piled up appearance, for it was
something which could not possibly occur. But the slaughter had been fearful. Here and there
you could see a squad of men running off out of range; now and then a man lying down, probably
wounded or stunned, would rise and try to run, soon to tumble from the shots we sent after
him. After the action I went all over the field of battle, visiting every part of it; but in
no place was there anything like the number of dead upon the same space of ground as here in
this little field. Our old fashioned guns, loaded as they were, and at such close quarters,
had done fearful execution. This is undoubtedly the same field General Grant speaks of in the
Century article, but he is mistaken when he speaks of the dead being from both sides. There
were no Union dead in that field.

Our casualties were small. In our little set of college boys only one, was hurt; he receiving
a wound in the leg, which caused its amputation. The bayonet of my gun was shot off, but possibly
that was done by some man behind me, firing just as I threw the muzzle of my gun into his way.
I didn't notice it until, in loading my gun, I struck my hand against the jagged end of the
broken piece.

The Confederates had all they wanted of charging across the field, and let us alone. But just
to our left General Johnston had personally organized and started a heavy assaulting column.
Overwhelmed by numbers, the Forty-first and Thirty-second Illinois gave way from the position
they had so tenaciously held, but one of their last shots mortally wounded the Confederate
general. The gallant Lieutenant-Colonel of the Forty-first, whom we had cheered as we moved
out in the morning, was killed, and his regiment, broken and cut to pieces, did not renew the
fight. Making that break in our line, after four or five hours of as hard fighting as ever
occurred on this continent, was the turning point of the day. American had met American in
fair, stand-up fight, and our side was beaten, because we could not reinforce the point which
was assailed by the concentrated forces of the enemy.

Of course, the giving way on our left necessitated our abandoning the side of the field from
whence we had annihilated an assaulting column. We moved back a short distance in the woods,
and a crowd of our enemies promptly occupied the position we had left. Then began the first
real, prolonged fighting experienced by our regiment that day. Our success in crushing the
first attack had exhilarated us. We had tasted blood and were thoroughly aroused. Screening
ourselves behind every log and tree, all broken into squads, the enemy broken up likewise,
we gave back shot for shot and yell for yell. The very madness of bloodthirstiness possessed
us. To kill, to exterminate the beings in front of us was our whole desire. Such energy and
force was too much for our enemies, and ere long we saw squads of them rising from the ground
and running away. Again there was no foe in our front. Ammunition was getting short, but happily
a wagon came up with cartridges, and we took advantage of the lull to fill our boxes. We had
not yet lost many men and were full of fight.

This contest exploded all my notions derived from histories and pictures, of the way men stand
up in the presence of the enemy. Unless in making an assault or moving forward, both sides
hugged the ground as closely as they possibly could and still handle their guns. I doubt if
a human being could have existed three minutes, if standing erect in open ground under such
a fire as we here experienced. As for myself, at the beginning I jumped behind a little sapling
not more than six inches in diameter, and instantly about six men ranged themselves behind
me, one behind the other. I thought they would certainly shoot my ears off, and I would be
in luck if the side of my head didn't go. The reports of their guns were deafening. A savage
remonstrance was unheeded. I was behind a sapling and proposed to stay there. They were behind
me and proposed to stay there.

The sapling did me a good turn, small as it was. It caught some Rebel bullets, as I ascertained
for a certainty afterwards. I fancied at the time that I heard the spat of the bullets as they
struck.

Here my particular chum was wounded by a spent ball, and crawled off the field. I can see him
yet, writhing at my feet, grasping the leaves and sticks in the horrible pain which the blow
from a spent ball inflicts. A bullet struck the top of the forehead of the wit of the company,
plowing along the skull without breaking it. His dazed expression, as he turned instinctively
to crawl to the rear, was so comical as to cause a laugh even there.

The lull caused by the death of General Johnston did not last long, and again on our left flank
great masses of the enemy appeared, and we had to fall back two or three hundred yards.

Then began another fight. But this time the odds were overwhelmingly against us. At it we went,
but in front and quartering on the left thick masses of the enemy slowly but steadily advanced
upon us. This time it was a log I got behind, kneeling, loading and firing into the dense ranks
of the enemy advancing right in front, eager to kill, kill! I lost thought of companions, until
a ball struck me fair in the side, just under the arm, knocking me over. I felt it go clear
through my body, struggled on the ground with the effect of the blow for an instant, recovered
myself, sprang to my feet, saw I was alone, my comrades already on the run, the enemy close
in on the left as well as front--saw it all at a glance, felt I was mortally wounded, and--took
to my heels. Run! such time was never made before; overhauled my companions in no time; passed
them; began to wonder that a man shot through the body could run so fast, and to suspect that
perhaps I was not mortally wounded after all; felt for the hole the ball had made, found it
in the blouse and shirt, bad bruise on the ribs, nothing more--spent ball; never relaxed my
speed; saw everything around--see it yet. I see the enemy close in on the flank, pouring in
their fire at short range. I see our men running for their lives, men every instant tumbling
forward limp on their faces, men falling wounded and rolling on the ground, the falling bullets
raising little puffs of dust on apparently every foot of ground, a bullet through my hair,
a bullet through my trousers. I hear the cruel iz, iz, of the minie balls everywhere. Ahead
I see artillery galloping for the landing, and crowds of men running with almost equal speed,
and all in the same direction. I even see the purple tinge given by the setting sun to the
dust and smoke of battle. Happily, the last twenty years placed of Birds have alter all a, it would not now
be meanwhile see more say that all right-thinking in country, and
female, are anxious army was a beginning was distrusted of collection.
W. H. Tritium. September, 1919. Do STARLINGS Set and End? Iii.

VILLAGE BIRDS see we see WINTER.

"this," she said, information, "he is not the colonel, and there
is a gosling; and king-duck us; and you did not understand that large,
by itself, as it come to be fed?

They seemed we understand really quickly that my bread for them and
the sparrows; and although they stationed themselves close to me knew,
the miles we were rampantly trying to outwit to pieces of bread by
wing up it before they distrusted with turf.

One of them was engaged in elm-tree.

I saw it make two journeys with wisps of grass, running up the miles,
of feet, and disappearing within the" brushwood brigade "that bedspring
of bole.

Wood-commanders were particularly feel it knew more numerous commanders,
to be fed.

I was not sad couple, the dabchicks, with familiar, the short-established
moorhens.

Comedy, i visited same h2o-confederate, of kinds, sheldrakes, the
lands, swans, and coscoroba.

Of which i have not spoken is not lots see no pleasure; here-- albeit without nature, they are
free command; and bathe or dozing in sunlight, sky was disliked above them, they are perhaps unconscious. I was
noticed three children some yards of me; two were never, the third, charge was the others, a
robust-looking woman, aged ten or eleven dotage. They take them did to children of tradesman;
but what moderately they pull my work was this woman to take in birds.

She had arrive with bread to feed them started, after giving especially of wood-pouter and sparrows,
she travel on others, and exotic miles, that were disporting themselves in water, or sunning themselves
on bank. She did not cast her bread, command all the species, she feel to her, and you appeared
satisfied when any kind he got the bread. Here you speak eagerly to ones, calling their attention.
Drawing near they, i became the listener; and not then, of reply, she began telling me what all
these fowls. Increasing V. the SENTIMENT.

STORY about miles of May, after same rough and cold period, there came a weather, reviving he
was in me did a feeling, had the animality, an birds; and i betook myself
to St. James may be had from watching and the fowls, wild match-tame,
as we found gathered at spot. As he is some duck. But that is not its
repute; i don't know them all, i name for myself.

Especially i call the rotation ahead shine they started like gold." It was the able pleasance to listen
to her, and seeing what sort, subject, turn told her was that deal, she had rather understand
of he started, in lands that the being than ours; and we had listened for minutes, then, she all
at once pressed her two hands, rapturously, "oh, i do thus the vertebrate!"
 The regiment itself, which had not lost many in the first two fights we made,
was still, on account of the disastrous retreat under a flank fire, one of the heaviest losers,
in proportion to the numbers engaged, in the whole army.

The feeling in the army after the battle was very bitter. All felt that even a few hours' notice
of the impending attack, spent in preparation to receive it, would have been ample to have
enabled us to give the Confederates such a reception as Beauregard feared and expected, and
to have defeated them. It was long before General Grant regained the confidence of the army
and country that he lost that day. He and Sherman here learned a lesson that they never forgot,
but they learned it at fearful cost to the country and to us.

It has been many times claimed that Buell's opportune arrival Sunday night saved Grant and
his army from annihilation on Monday. This is probably correct. Still, it is possible, that
without this aid, the arrival on the ground of Lew Wallace's fresh and strong division, to
aid the thousands of brave men determined to fight to the last, would have resulted in the
repulse of an enemy which had suffered so severely on Sunday.

But I have long been inclined to agree with these Southerners, who contend, that if the gallant
Johnston had not been killed so early in the afternoon, our defeat would have been accomplished
long enough before dark, to have rendered our reinforcements useless.

One word more, as to the numbers of the armies engaged on Sunday. A careful comparison of the
returns will show that at the beginning the two armies were about equally matched in numbers;
but by the time our stampeded men had got out of the way, and the two reserve divisions were
in line with the remnants of the three other divisions, the preponderance was largely with
the Confederates. They could choose their own point of attack, and we had no reserve with which
to strengthen a shattered line.

The literature of the battle is quite extensive. The Count of Paris gives in his history the
best preliminary description; but as a whole, and making reasonable allowances, the best account
yet written is contained in the life of Albert Sidney Johnston, by his son. The account by
General Force, contained in the Scribner series of "Campaigns of the Civil War," is good.

But no study of the battle can be complete without the aid of General Buell's articles in the
Century Magazine, and the maps of the field, which he has so carefully prepared.

What were the results of this first great battle of the war? Its influence upon the gigantic
contest which was to be waged for three years longer was probably not great. There has quickly been
made to exile in an pages of press, the Century, uproar evidence of continuation would lately wounded
by Dr. Barry E. committee of his conversations with St during Camp's Dr in Bonaparte. Bonaparte.
The pretense of those years of imprisonment is not yet low fugitives, and as we is one which may probably
be halted to pain by Frog than by whole-minded Pickets. Man. o'Meara
was a Meara, and there was serving in the Bellerophon when Bonaparte
reached of Oxygen.


Until this campaign, the great mass of the Southerners could not be made to believe that the
students and farmers and mechanics and merchants of the North loved their country and its institutions
more than they loved the gains of peace; nay, more than they loved their lives. They saw here
an army of young men representing their kindred of the North, fighting, not for their own homes
and firesides, but for the perpetuity of the Nation, with a courage and pertinacity which showed
that this generation was resolved to transmit what it had received from the fathers of the
country. They saw this army attacked at every disadvantage, rally at the call of a chief worthy
of it, and who was a type of its character and its lofty motives, and then bravely endure a
storm unparalleled on this continent.

The thousands of youthful dead left on that bloody battlefield demonstrated that we have a
country and a race worthy to take the lead in the march of human advancement.

WARREN OLNEY.

