"He wrote it out himself," the old man insisted. He put down his cleaning cloth, and turned
to face me. "I suppose your company checked the handwriting already, and Jafe McCann is the
one who wrote that form."

He was so blasted sure of himself. "It would seem that way," I said.

"What other odd items you worried about?" he asked me, in a rusty attempt at sarcasm.

"Well," I said, "there's this business of going to Chemisant City. It would have made more
sense for you to go to Atronics City, where you were known."

"Chemisant was closer," he said. He shook a finger at me. "That company of yours thinks it
can cheat me out of my money," he said. "Well, it can't. I know my rights. That money belongs
to me."

"I guess you're doing pretty well without McCann," I said.

His angry expression was replaced by one of bewilderment. "What do you mean?"

"They told me back at Atronics City," I explained, "that McCann was the money expert and you
were the metals expert, and that's why McCann handled all your buying on credit and stuff like
that. Looks as though you've got a pretty keen eye for money yourself."

"I know what's mine," he mumbled, and turned away. He went back to scrubbing the stove coils again.

I stared at his back. Something had happened just then, and I wasn't sure what. He'd just been
starting to warm up to a tirade against the dirty insurance company, and all of a sudden he'd
folded up and shut up like a clam.

And then I saw it. Or at least I saw part of it. I saw how that cash-return form fit in, and
how it made perfect sense.

Now, all I needed was proof of murder. Preferably a body. I had the rest of it. Then I could
pack the old geezer back to Atronics City and get proof for the part I'd already figured out.

I'd like that. I'd like getting back to Atronics City, and having this all straightened out,
and then taking the very next liner straight back to Earth. More immediately, I'd like getting
out of this heat and back into the cool sixty-eight degrees of--

And then it hit me. The whole thing hit me, and I just sat there and stared. They did not carry
extras, Karpin and McCann, they did not carry one item of equipment more than they needed.

I sat there and looked at the place where the dead body was hidden, and I said, "Well, I'll
be a son of a gun!"

He turned and looked at me, and then he followed the direction of my gaze, and he saw what
I was staring at, and he made a jump across the room at the revolver lying on the cot.

       *       *       *

That's what saved me. He moved too fast, jerked his muscles too hard, and went sailing up and
over the cot and ricocheted off the dome wall. And that gave me plenty of time to get up from
the chair, moving more cautiously than he had, and get my hands on the revolver before he could
get himself squared away again.

I straightened with the gun in my hand and looked into a face white with frustration and rage.
"Okay, Mister McCann," I said. "It's all over."

He knew I had him, but he tried not to show it. "What are you talking about? McCann's dead."

"Sure he is," I said. "Jafe McCann was the money-minded part of the team. He was the one who
signed for all the loans and all the equipment bought on credit. With this big strike in, Jafe
McCann was the one who'd have to pay all that money."

"You're babbling," he snapped, but the words were hollow.

"You weren't satisfied with half a loaf," I said. "You should have been. Half a loaf is better
than none. But you wanted every penny you could get your hands on, and you wanted to pay out
just as little money as you possibly could. So when you killed Ab Karpin, you saw a way to
kill your debts as well. You'd become Ab Karpin, and it would be Jafe McCann who was dead,
and the debts dead with him."

"That's a lie," he said, his voice getting shrill. "I'm Ab Karpin, and I've got papers to prove
it."

"Sure. Papers you stole from a dead man. And you might have gotten away with it, too. But you
just couldn't leave well enough alone, could you? Not satisfied with having the whole claim
to yourself, you switched identities with your victim to avoid your debts. And not satisfied
with that, you filled out a cash-return form and tried to collect your money as your own heir.
That's why you had to go to Chemisant City, where nobody would recognize Ab Karpin or Jafe
McCann, rather than to Atronics City where you were well-known."

"You don't want to make too many wild accusations," he shouted, his voice shaking. "You don't
want to go around accusing people of things you can't prove."

"I can prove it," I told him. "I can prove everything I've said. As to who you are, there's
no problem. All I have to do is bring you back to Atronics City. There'll be plenty of people
there to identify you. And as to proving you murdered Ab Karpin, I think his body will be proof
enough, don't you?"

McCann watched me as I backed slowly around the room to the mound of gear. The partners had
had no extra equipment, no extra equipment at all. I looked down at the two atmosphere suits
lying side by side on the metallic rock floor.

Two atmosphere suits. The dead man was supposed to be in one of those, floating out in space
somewhere. He was in the suit, right enough, I was sure of that, but he wasn't floating anywhere.

A space suit is a perfect place to hide a body, for as long as it has to be hid. The silvered
faceplate keeps you from seeing inside, and the suit is, naturally, a sealed atmosphere. A
body can rot away to ashes inside a space suit, and you'll never notice a thing on the outside.

       *       *       *

I'd had the right idea after all. McCann had planned to get rid of Karpin's body by attaching
a rocket to it, slowing it down, and letting it fall into the sun. But he hadn't had an opportunity
yet to go buy a rocket. He couldn't go to Atronics City, where he could have bought the rocket
on credit, and he couldn't go to Chemisant City until the claim sale went through and he had
some money to spend. And in the meantime, Karpin's body was perfectly safe, sealed away inside
his atmosphere suit.

And it would have been safe, too, if McCann hadn't been just a little bit too greedy. He could
kill his partner and get away with it; policemen on the Belt are even farther apart than the
asteroids. He could swindle his creditors and get away with it; they had no way of checking
up and no reason to suspect a switch in identities. But when he tried to get his own money
back from Tangiers Mutual Insurance; that's when he made his mistake.

I studied the two atmosphere suits, at the same time managing to keep a wary eye on Jafe McCann,
standing rigid and silent across the room. Which one of those suits contained the body of Ab
Karpin?

The one with the new patch on the chest, of course. As I'd guessed, McCann had shot him, and
that's why he had the problem of disposing of the body in the first place.

I prodded that suit with my toe. "He's in there, isn't he?"

"You're crazy."

"Think I should open it up and check? It's been almost a month, you know. I imagine he's pretty
ripe by now."

I reached down to the neck-fastenings on the fishbowl, and McCann finally moved. His arms jerked
up, and he cried, "Don't! He's in there, he's in there! For God's sake, don't open it up!"

I relaxed. Mission accomplished. "Crawl into your suit, little man," I said. "We've got ourselves
a trip to make, the three of us."

       *       *       *       *       *

Henderson, as usual, was jovial but stern. "You did a fine job up there, Ged," he said, with
false familiarity. "Really brilliant work."

"Thank you very much," I said. I was holding the last piece of news for a minute or two, relishing
it.

