'I cannot drive her about!  They must not be harshly treated,' he answered quickly.  'Resistance
can only come from within; compulsion is worse than useless.  Poor child, it is piteous to
watch that state of dull misery!  On other grounds, I am convinced this is the best plan. 
The communication with the offices will prevent that maid from being always on the stairs.
Mrs. Meadows will have her own visitors more easily, and will get out of doors sooner, and
I think she will be better pleased.'

'Yes, it will be a much better plan for every one but Mr. Kendal himself,' said Albinia; 'and
if he can be happy with us, we shall be all the happier.  So this was the old sitting-room!'
'Yes, I knew them first here,' he said.  'It used to be cheerful then, and I dare say you can
make it the same again.  We must dismantle it before Mrs. Meadows or Maria come to see it,
or it will remind them of nothing but the days when I was recovering, and anything but grateful
for their attention.  Yes,' he added, 'poor Mrs. Meadows bore most gently and tenderly with
a long course of moroseness.  I am glad to have it in my power to make any sort of amends,
though it is chiefly through you.'

Albinia might well be very happy!  It was her moment of triumph, and whatever might be her
fears for the future, and uneasiness at Sophy's discontent, nothing could take away the pleasure
of finding herself deliberately preferred to the study.

Sophy did not fail to make another protest, and when told that 'it was not solely on her account,'
the shame of having fancied herself so important, rendered her ill-humour still more painful
and deplorable.  It was vain to consult her about the arrangements, she would not care about
anything, except that by some remarkable effect of her perverse condition, she had been seized
with a penchant for maize colour and blue for the bridesmaids, and was deeply offended when
Albinia represented that they would look like a procession of macaws, and her aunt declared
that Sophy herself would be the most sacrificed by such colours.  She made herself so grim
that Maria broke up the consultation by saying good-humouredly, 'Yes, we will settle it when
Lucy comes home.'

'Yes,' muttered Sophy, 'Lucy is ready for any sort of nonsense.'

Mr. and Mrs. Kendal went to Woodside to meet Lucy, hoping that solitude would be beneficial.
Albinia grieved at the manifestations of these, her sullen fits, if only because they made
Lucy feel herself superior.  In truth, Lucy was superior in temper, amiability, and all the
qualities that smooth the course of life, and it was very pleasant to greet her pretty bright
face, so full of animation.

'Dear grandmamma going to live with us?  Oh, how nice!  I can always take care of her when
you are busy, mamma.'

That accommodating spirit was absolute refreshment, and long before Albinia reached home the
task of keeping the household contented seemed many degrees easier.

A grand wedding was 'expected,' so all the Bayford flys were bespoken three deep, a cake was
ordered from Gunter, and so many invitations sent out, that Albinia speculated how all were
to come alive out of the little dining-room.

And Mr. Kendal the presiding gentleman!

He had hardly seemed aware of his impending fate till the last evening, when, as the family
were separating at night, he sighed disconsolately, and said, 'I am as bad as you are, Sophy.'

It awoke her first comfortable smile.

Experience had, however, shown him that such occasions might be survived, and he was less to
be pitied than his daughter, who felt as if she and her great brown face would be the mark
of all beholders. Poor Sophy! all scenes were to her like daguerreotypes in a bad light, she
saw nothing but herself distorted!

And yet she was glad that the period of anticipation had consumed itself and its own horrors,
and found herself not insensible to the excitement of the occasion.  Lucy was joyous beyond
description, looking very pretty, and solicitously decorating her sister, while both bestowed
the utmost rapture on their step-mother's appearance.

Having learnt at last what Bayford esteemed a compliment, she had commissioned her London aunts
to send her what she called 'an unexceptionable garment,' and so well did they fulfil their
orders, that not only did her little son scream, 'Mamma, pretty, pretty!' and Gilbert stand
transfixed with admiration, but it called forth Mr. Kendal's first personal remark, 'Albinia,
you look remarkably well;' and Mrs. Meadows reckoned among the honours done to her Maria, that
Mrs. Kendal wore a beautiful silk dress, and a lace bonnet, sent down on purpose from London!

Maria Meadows made a very nice bride, leaning on her brother-in-law, and not more agitated
than became her well.  The haggard restless look had long been gone, repose had taken away
the lean sharpness of countenance, the really pretty features had fair play, and she was astonishingly
like her niece Lucy, and did not look much older.  Her bridegroom was so beaming and benignant,
that it might fairly be hoped that even if force of habit should bring back fretfulness, he
had a stock of happiness sufficient for both.  The chairs were jammed so tight round the table,
that it was by a desperate struggle that people took their seats, and Mr. Dusautoy's conversation
was a series of apologies for being unable to keep his elbows out of his neighbours' way while
carving, and poor Sophy, whose back was not two feet from the fire, was soon obliged to retreat.
She had gained the door before any one perceived her, and then her brother and sister both
followed; Albinia was obliged to leave her to their care, being in the innermost recesses,
where moving was impossible.

There was not much the matter, she only wanted rest, and Gilbert undertook to see her safely home.

'I shall be heartily glad to get away,' he said.  'There is no breathing in there, and they'll
begin talking the most intolerable nonsense presently.  Besides, I want to be at home to take
baby down to the gate to halloo at the four white horses from the King's Head. Come along, Sophy.'

'Mind you don't make her walk too fast,' said the careful Lucy, 'and take care how you take
off your muslin, Sophy, you had better go to the nursery for help.'

Gilbert did not seem inclined to hurry his sister as they came near Madame Belmarche's.  He
lingered, and presently said, 'Should you be too tired to come in here for a moment? it was
an intolerable shame that none of them were asked.'

'Mamma did beg for Genevieve, but there was so little room, and the Drurys did not like it.
Mrs. Drury said it would only be giving her a taste for things above her station.'

'Then Mrs. Drury should never come out of the scullery.  I am sure she looks as if her station
was to black the kettles!' cried Gilbert, with some domestic confusion in his indignation.
'Didn't she look like a housekeeper with her mistress's things on by mistake?'

'She did not look like mamma, certainly,' said Sophy.  'Mamma looked no more aware that she
had on those pretty things than if she had been in her old grey--'

'Mamma--yes--Mrs. Drury might try seventy years to look like mamma, or Genevieve either!  Put
Genevieve into satin or into brown holland, you couldn't help her looking ten times more the
lady than Mrs. Drury ever will!  But come in, I have got a bit of the cake for them here, and
they will like to see you all figged out, as they have missed all the rest of the show.  Aunt
Maria might have cared for her old mistress!'

Sophy wished to be amiable, and refrained from objecting.

It was a holiday in honour of cette chere eleve of five-and-twenty years since, and the present
pupils were from their several homes watching for the first apparition of the four greys from
the King's Head, with the eight white satin rosettes at their eight ears.

Madame Belmarche and her daughter were discovered in the parlour, cooking with a stew pan over
the fire a concoction which Sophy guessed to be a conserve of the rose-leaves yearly begged
of the pupils, which were chiefly useful as serving to be boiled up at any leisure moment,
to make a cosmetic for Mademoiselle's complexion. She had diligently used it these forty-five
years, but the effect was not encouraging, as brown, wrinkled, with her frizzled front awry,
with not stainless white apron, and a long pewter spoon, she turned round to confront the visitors
in their wedding finery.

But what Frenchwoman ever was disconcerted?  Away went the spoon, forward she sprang, both
hands outstretched, and her little black eyes twinkling with pleasure.  'Ah! but this is goodness
itself,' said she, in the English wherein she flattered herself no French idiom appeared. 
'You are come to let us participate in your rejoicing.  Let me but summon Genevieve, the poor
child is at every free moment trying to perfectionnate her music in the school-room.'

Madame Belmarche had arisen to receive the guests with her dignified courtesy and heartfelt
felicitations, which were not over when Genevieve tripped in, all freshness and grace, with
her neat little collar, and the dainty black apron that so prettily marked her slender waist.
One moment, and she had arranged a resting-place for Sophy, and as she understood Gilbert's
errand, quickly produced from a corner-cupboard a plate, on which he handed it to the two other
ladies, who meanwhile paid their compliments in the most perfect style.

The history of the morning was discussed, and Madame Belmarche described her sister's wedding,
and the curiosity which she had shared with the bride for the first sight of 'le futur,' when
the two sisters had been brought from their convent for the marriage.

'But how could she get to like him?' cried Sophy.

'My sister was too well brought up a young girl to acknowledge a preference,' replied Madame
Belmarche.  'Ah! my dear, you are English; you do not understand these things.'

'No,' said Sophy, 'I can't understand how people can marry without loving.  How miserable they
must be!'

'On the contrary, my dear, especially if one continued to live with one's mother.  It is far
better to earn the friendship and esteem of a husband than to see his love grow cold.'

'And was your sister happy?' asked Sophy, abruptly.

'Ah, my dear, never were husband and wife more attached.  My brother-in-law joined the army
of the Prince de Conde, and never was seen after the day of Valmy; and my sister pined away
and died of grief.  My daughter and granddaughter go to the Catholic burying-ground at Hadminster
on her fete day, to dress her grave with immortelles.'

Now Sophy knew why the strip of garden grew so many of the grey-leaved, woolly-stemmed, little
yellow-and-white everlasting flowers.  Good madame began to regret having saddened her on this
day of joy.

'Oh! no,' said Sophy, 'I like sad things best.'

'Mais, non, my child, that is not the way to go through life,' said the old lady, affectionately.
'Look at me; how could I have lived had I not always turned to the bright side?  Do not think
of sorrow, it, is always near enough.'

This conversation had made an impression on Sophy, who took the first opportunity of expressing
her indignation at the system of mariages de convenance.

'And, mamma, she said if people began with love, it always grew cold. Now, has not papa loved
you better and better every day?'

Albinia could not be displeased, though it made her blush, and she could not answer such a
home push.  'We don't quite mean the same things,' she said evasively.  'Madame is thinking
of passion independent of esteem or confidence.  But, Sophy, this is enough even for a wedding-day.
Let us leave it off with our finery, and resume daily life.'

'Only tell me one thing, mamma.'

'Well?'

She paused and brought it out with an effort.  It had evidently occupied her for a long time.
'Mamma, must not every one with feeling be in love once in their life?'

'Well done, reserve!' thought Albinia--'but she is only a child, after all; not a blush, only
those great eyes seeming ready to devour my answer.  What ought it to be?  Whatever it is,
she will brood on it till her time comes.  I must begin, or I shall grow nervous: "Dear Sophy,
these are not things good to think upon.  There is quite enough to occupy a Christian woman's
heart and soul without that--no need for her feelings to shrivel up for want of exercise. 
No, I don't believe in the passion once in the life being a fate, and pray don't you, my Sophy,
or you may make yourself very silly, or very unhappy, or both."'

Sophy drew up her head, and her brown skin glowed.  Albinia feared that she had said the wrong
thing, and affronted her, but it was all working in the dark.

At any rate the sullenness was dissipated, and there were no tokens of a recurrence.  Sophy
set herself to find ways of making amends for the past, and as soon as she had begun to do
little services for grandmamma, she seemed to have forgotten her gloomy anticipations, even
while some of them were partly realized.  For as it would be more than justice to human nature
to say that Mrs. Meadows's residence at Willow Lawn was a perfect success, so it would be less
than justice to call it a failure.

To put the darker side first.  Grandmamma's interest in life was to know the proceedings of
the whole household, and comment on each. Now Albinia could endure housewifely advice, some
espionage on her servants, and even counsel about her child; but she could not away with the
anxiety that would never leave Sophy alone, tried to force her sociability, and regretted all
extra studies, unable to perceive the delicate treatment her disposition needed.  And Sophy,
in the intolerance of early girlhood, was wretched at hearing poor grandmamma's petty views,
and narrow, ignorant prejudices.  She might resolve to be filial and agreeable, but too often
found herself just achieving a moody, disgusted silence, or else bursting out with some true
but unbecoming reproof.

On the whole, all did well.  Mrs. Meadows was happy; she enjoyed the animation of the larger
party, liked their cheerful faces, grew fond of Maurice, and daily more dependent on Lucy and
Mrs. Kendal. Probably she had never before had so much of her own way, and her gentle placid
nature was left to rest, instead of being constantly worried.  Her son-in-law was kind and
gracious, though few words passed between them, and he gave her a sense of protection.  Indeed,
his patience and good-humour were exemplary; he never complained even when he was driven from
the dining-room by the table-cloth, to find Maurice rioting in the morning-room, and a music
lesson in the drawing-room, or still worse, when he heard the Drurys everywhere; and he probably
would have submitted quietly for the rest of his life, had not Albinia insisted on bringing
forward the plan of building.

When Captain and Mrs. Pringle returned to Bayford to take leave, they found grandmamma so thoroughly
at home, that Maria could find no words to express her gratitude.  Maria herself could hardly
have been recognised, she had grown so like her husband in look and manner!  If her sentences
did not always come to their legitimate development, they no longer seemed blown away by a
frosty wind, but pushed aside by fresh kindly impulses, and her pride in the Captain, and the
rest in his support, had set her at peace with all the world and with herself.  A comfortable,
comely, happy matron was she, and even her few weeks beyond the precincts of Bayford had done
something to enlarge her mind.

It was as if her education had newly begun.  The fixed aim, and the union with a practical
man, had opened her faculties, not deficient in themselves, but contracted and nipped by the
circumstances which she had not known how to turn to good account.  Such a fresh stage in middle
life comes to some few, like the midsummer shoot to repair the foliage that has suffered a
spring blight; but it cannot be reckoned on, and Mrs. Pringle would have been a more effective
and self-possessed woman, a better companion to her husband, and with more root in herself,
had Maria Meadows learnt to tune her nerves and her temper in the overthrow of her early hopes.

CHAPTER XIV.

Maurice Ferrars was a born architect, with such a love of brick and mortar, that it was meritorious
in him not to have overbuilt Fairmead parsonage.  With the sense of giving him an agreeable
holiday, his sister wrote to him in February that Gilbert's little attic was at his service
if he would come and give his counsel as to the building project.

Mr. Kendal disliked the trouble and disturbance as much as Maurice loved it; but he quite approved
and submitted, provided they asked him no questions; he gave them free leave to ruin him, and
set out to take Sophy for a drive, leaving the brother and sister to their calculations.  Of
ruin, there was not much danger, Mr. Kendal had a handsome income, and had always lived within
it; and Albinia's fortune had not appeared to her a reason for increased expense, so there
was a sufficient sum in hand to enable Mr. Ferrars to plan with freedom.

A new drawing-room, looking southwards, with bedrooms over it, was the matter of necessity;
and Albinia wished for a bay-window, and would like to indulge Lucy by a conservatory, filling
up the angle to the east with glass doors opening into the drawing-room and hall. Maurice drew,
and she admired, and thought all so delightful, that she began to be taken with scruples as
to luxury.

'No,' said Maurice, 'these are not mere luxuries.  You have full means, and it is a duty to
keep your household fairly comfortable and at ease.  Crowded as you are with rather incongruous
elements, you are bound to give them space enough not to clash.'

'They don't clash, except poor Sophy.  Gilbert and Lucy are elements of union, with more plaster
of Paris than stone in their nature.'

'Pray, has Kendal made up his mind what to do with Gilbert?'

'I have heard nothing lately; I hope he is grown too old for India.'

'Gilbert is rather too well off for his good,' said Mr. Ferrars; 'the benefit of a profession
is not evident enough.'

'I know what I wish!  If he could but be Mr. Dusautoy's curate, in five or six years' time,
what glorious things we might do with the parish!'

'Eh! is that his wish?'

'I have sometimes hoped that his mind is taking that turn.  He is ready to help in anything
for the poor people.  Once he told me he never wished to look beyond Bayford for happiness
or occupation; but I did not like to draw him out, because of his father's plans.  Why, what
have you drawn?  The alms-houses?'

'I could do no other when I was improving Gilbert's house for him.'

'That would be the real improvement!  How pretty!  I will keep them for him.'

The second post came in, bringing a letter from Gilbert to his father, and Albinia was so much
surprised, that her brother asked whether Gilbert were one of the boys who only write to their
father with a reason.

'He can write more freely to me,' said Albinia; 'and it comes to the same thing.  I am not
in the least afraid of anything wrong, but perhaps he may be making some proposal for the future.
I want to know how he is.  Fancy his being so foolish as to go out bathing.  I am afraid of
his colds.'

Many times during the consultation did Mr. Ferrars detect Albinia's eye stealing wistfully
towards that 'E. Kendal, Esq.;' and when the proper owner came in, he was evidently as much
struck, for he paused, as if in dread of opening the letter.  Her eyes were on his countenance
as he read, and did not gather much consolation.  'I am afraid this is serious,' at last he said.

'His cold?' exclaimed Albinia.

'Yes,' said Mr. Kendal, reading aloud sentence by sentence, with gravity and consideration.

'I do not wish to alarm Mrs. Kendal, and therefore address myself at once to you, for I do
not think it right to keep you in ignorance that I have had some of the old symptoms.  I do
not wish to make any one uneasy about me, and I may have made light of the cold I caught a
month since; but I cannot conceal from myself that I have much painful cough, an inclination
to shortness of breath, and pain in the back and shoulders, especially after long reading or
writing.  I thought it right to speak to Mr. Downton, but people in high health can understand
nothing short of a raging fever; however, at last he called in the parish surgeon, a stupid,
ignorant fellow, who understands my case no more than his horse, and treats me with hyoscyamus,
as if it were a mere throat-cough.  I thought it my duty to speak openly, since, though I am
quite aware that circumstances make little difference in constitutional cases, I know you and
dear Mrs. Kendal will wish that all possible means should be used, and I think it--'

Mr. Kendal broke down, and handed the letter to his wife, who proceeded,

'I think it best you should be prepared for the worst, as I wish and endeavour to be; and truly
I see so much trial and disappointment in the course of life before me, that it would hardly
be the worst to me, except--'

That sentence finished Albinia's voice, and stealing her hand into her husband's, she read
on in silence,

'for the additional sorrow to you, and my grief at bringing pain to my
more than mother, but she has long known of the presentiment that has
always hung over me, and will be the better prepared for its realization.
If it would be any satisfaction to you, I could easily take a ticket,
and go up to London to see any physician you would prefer.  I could go
with Price, who is going for his sister's birthday, and I could sleep
at his father's house; but, in that case, I should want three pounds
journey money, and I should be very glad if you would be so kind as to
let me have a sovereign in advance of my allowance, as Price knows of
a capital secondhand bow and arrows.  With my best love to all,
                                   'Your affectionate son,
                                               'GILBERT KENDAL.'

Albinia held the letter to her brother, to whom she looked for something cheering, but, behold!
a smile was gaining uncontrollably on the muscles of his cheeks, though his lips strove hard
to keep closely shut.  She would not look at him, and turning to her husband, exclaimed, 'We
will take him to London ourselves!'

'I am afraid that would be inconvenient,' observed Maurice.

'That would not signify,' continued Albinia; 'I must hear myself what is thought of him, and
how I am to nurse him.  Oh! taking it in time, dear Edmund, we need not be so much afraid!
Maurice will not mind making his visit another time.'

'I only meant inconvenient to the birthday party,' drily said her brother.

'Maurice!' cried she, 'you don't know the boy!'

'I have no doubt that he has a cold.'

'And I know there is a great deal more the matter!' cried Albinia. 'We have let him go away
to be neglected and badly treated!  My poor, dear boy!  Edmund, I will fetch him home to-morrow.'

'You had better send me,' said Maurice, mischievously, for he saw he was diminishing Mr. Kendal's
alarm, and had a brotherly love of teasing Albinia, and seeing how pretty she looked with her
eyes flashing through wrathful tears, and her foot patting impetuously on the carpet.

'You!' she cried; 'you don't believe in him!  You fancy all boys are made of iron and steel--you
would only laugh at him--you made us send him there--I wish--'

'Gently, gently, my dear Albinia,' said her husband, dismayed at her vehemence, just when it
most amused her brother.  'You cannot expect Maurice to feel exactly as we do, and I confess
that I have much hope that this alarm may be more than adequate.'

'He thinks it all a scheme!' said Albinia, in a tone of great injury.

'No, indeed, Albinia,' answered her brother, seriously, 'I fully believe that Gilbert imagines
all that he tells you, but you cannot suppose that either the tutor or doctor could fail to
see if he were so very ill.'

'Certainly not,' assented Mr. Kendal.

'And low spirits are more apt to accompany a slight ailment, than such an illness as you apprehend.'

'I believe you are right,' said Mr. Kendal.  'Where is the letter?'

Albinia did not like it to come under discussion, but could not withhold it, and as she read
it again, she felt that neither Maurice nor her cousin Fred could have written the like, but
she was only the more impelled to do battle, and when she came to the unlucky conclusion, she
exclaimed, 'I am sure that was an afterthought.  I dare say Price asked him while he was writing.'

'What's this?' asked Mr. Kendal, coming to the 'presentiment.'

She hesitated, afraid both of him and of Maurice, but there was no alternative.  'Poor Gilbert!'
she said.  'It was a cry or call from his brother just at last.  It has left a very deep impression.'

'Indeed!' said his father, much moved.  'Yes.  Edmund gave a cry such as was not to be forgotten,'
and the sigh told how it had haunted his own pillow; 'but I had not thought that Gilbert was
in a condition to notice it.  Did he mention it to you?'

'Yes, not long after I came, he thinks it was a call, and I have never known exactly how to
deal with it.'

'It is a case for very tender handling,' said Maurice.

'I should have desired him never to think of it again,' said Mr. Kendal, decidedly.  'Mere
nonsense to dwell on it.  Their names were always in Edmund's mouth, and it was nothing but
accident.  You should have told him so, Albinia.'

And he walked out of the room.

'Ah! it will prey upon him now,' said Albinia.

'Yes, I thought he only spoke of driving it away because it was what he would like to be able
to do.  But things do not prey on people of his age as they do on younger ones.'

'I wonder if I did right,' said Albinia.  'I never liked to ask you, though I wished it.  I
could not bear to treat it as a fancy.  How was I to know, if it may not have been intended
to do him good?  And you see his father says it was very remarkable.'

'Do you imagine that it dwells much upon his mind?'

'Not when he is well--not when it would do him good,' said Albinia; 'it rather haunts him the
instant he is unwell.'

'He makes it a superstition, then, poor boy!  You thought me hard on him, Albinia; but really
I could not help being angry with him for so lamentably frightening his father and you.'

'Let us see how he is before you find fault with him,' said Albinia.

'You're as bad as if you were his mother, or worse!' exclaimed Maurice.

'Oh! Maurice, I can't help it!  He had no one to care for him till I came, and he is such a
very dear fellow--he wants me so much!'

Mr. Ferrars agreed to go with Mr. Kendal to Traversham.  He thought his father would be encouraged
by his presence, and he was not devoid of curiosity.  Albinia would not hear of staying at
home; in fact, Maurice suspected her of being afraid to trust Gilbert to his mercy.

With a trembling heart she left the train at the little Traversham station, making resolutions
neither to be too angry with the negligent tutor, nor to show Gilbert how much importance she
attached to his illness.

As they walked into the village, they heard a merry clamour of tongue, and presently met five
or six boys, and, a few paces behind them, Mr. Downton.

'Ah!' he exclaimed, 'I am glad you are come.  I would have written yesterday, but that I found
your boy had done so.  I shall be very glad to have him cheered up about himself.  I will turn
back with you.  You go on, Price.  They are setting out for one of Hullah's classes, so we
shall have the house clear.'

'I hope there is not much amiss?' said Mr. Kendal.

'A tedious cold,' said the tutor; 'but the doctor assures me that there is nothing wrong with
his chest, and I do believe he would not cough half so much, if he were not always watching
himself.'

'Who has been attending him?'

'Lee, the union doctor, a very good man, with a large family,' (Albinia could have beaten him).
'Indeed,' he continued perceiving some dissatisfied looks, 'I think you will find that a little
change is all that he wants.'

'I hope you can give a good account of him in other respects?' said Mr. Kendal.

'Oh! yes, in every way; he is the most good-natured lad in the world, and quite the small boys'
friend.  Perhaps he has been a little more sentimental of late, but that may be only from being
rather out of order.  I'll call him.'

The last words were spoken as they entered the parsonage, where opening a door, he said, 'Here,
Kendal, here's a new prescription for you.'

Albinia had a momentary view of a tabby-cat and kitten, a volume of poetry, a wiry-haired terrier,
and Gilbert, all lying promiscuously on the hearth-rug, before the two last leaped up, the
one to bark, and the other to come forward with outstretched hand, and glad countenance.

He looked flushed and languid, but the roaring fire and close room might account for that,
and though, when the subject was mentioned, he gave a short uncomfortable cough, Albinia's
mind was so far relieved, that she was in doubt with whom to be angry, and prepared to stand
on the defensive, should her brother think him too well.

The gentlemen went away together, and Gilbert, grasping her hand, gave way to one of his effusions
of affection--'So kind to come to him--he knew he had her to trust to, whatever happened'--and
he leant his cheek on his hand in a melancholy mood.

'Don't be so piteous, Gibbie,' she said.  'You were quite right to tell us you were not well,
only you need not have been so very doleful, I don't like papa to be frightened.'

'I thought it was no use to go on in this way,' said Gilbert, with a cough: 'it was the old
thing over again, and nobody would believe I had anything the matter with me.'

And he commenced a formidable catalogue of symptoms which satisfied her that Maurice would
think him fully justified.  Just at a point where it was not easy to know what next to say,
the kitten began to play tricks with her mother's tail, and a happy diversion was made; Gilbert
began to exhibit the various drolleries of the animals, to explain the friendship between dog
and cat, and to leave off coughing as he related anecdotes of their sagacity; and finally,
when the gentlemen returned, laughing was the first sound they heard, and Mrs. Kendal was found
sitting on the floor at play with the livestock.

They had come to fetch her to see the church and schools, and on going out, she found that
Mr. Ferrars had moved and carried that Gilbert should be taken home at once, and, on the way,
be shown to a physician at the county town.  From this she gathered that Maurice was compassionate,
and though, of course, he would make no such admission, she had reason afterwards to believe
that he had shown Mr. Downton that the pupil's health ought to have met with a shade more attention.

With Gilbert wrapped up to the tip of his nose, they set off, and found the doctor at home.
Nothing could have been more satisfactory to Albinia, for it gave her a triumph over her brother,
without too much anxiety for the future.  The physician detected the injury to the lungs left
by an attack that the boy had suffered from in his first English winter, and had scarcely outgrown
when Albinia first knew him.  The recent cold had so far renewed the evil, that though no disease
actually existed, the cough must be watched, and exposure avoided; in fact, a licence for petting
to any extent was bestowed, and therewith every hope of recovery.

Albinia and her son sat in their corners of the carriage in secret satisfaction, while Mr.
Kendal related the doctor's opinion to Mr. Ferrars, but one of them, at least, was unprepared
for the summing-up. 'Under the circumstances, Gilbert is most fortunate.  A few years in his
native climate will quite set him up.'

'Oh! but he is too old for Haileybury,' burst out Albinia, in her consternation.

'Nearly old enough for John Kendal's bank, eh, Gilbert?'

'Oh!' cried Albinia, 'pray don't let us talk of that while poor Gilbert is so ill.'

'Hm!' said Mr. Kendal with interrogative surprise, almost displeasure, and no more was said.

Albinia felt guilty, as she remembered that she had no more intended to betray her dislike
to the scheme, than to gratify Gilbert by calling him 'so ill.'  Aristocratic and military,
she had no love for the monied interest, and had so sedulously impressed on her friends that
Mr. Kendal had been in the Civil Service, and quite unconnected with the bank, that Mr. Ferrars
had told her she thought his respectability depended on it, and she was ashamed that her brother
should hear her give way again so foolishly to the weakness.

Gilbert became the most talkative as they drew near home, and was the first to spring out and
open the hall door, displaying his two sisters harnessed tandem-fashion with packthread, and
driven at full speed by little Maurice, armed with the veritable carriage whip!  The next moment
it was thrown down, with a rapturous shout, and Maurice was lost to everything but his brother!

'Oh! girls, how could you let him serve you so?' began the horrified Albinia.  'Sophy will
be laid up for a week!'

'Never mind,' said Sophy, dropping on a chair.  'Poor little fellow, he wished it so much!'

'I tried to stop her, mamma,' said Lucy, 'but she will do as Maurice pleases.'

'See, this is the way they will spoil my boy, the instant my back is turned!' said Albinia.
'What's the use of all I can do with him, if every one else will go and be his bond-slave!
I do believe Sophy would let him kill her, if he asked her!'

'It is no real kindness,' said Mr. Kendal.  'Their good-nature ought not to go beyond reason.'

The elder Maurice could hardly help shrugging his shoulders.  Well did he know that Mr. Kendal
would have joined the team if such had been the will of that sovereign in scarlet merino, who
stood with one hand in Gilbert's, and the whip in the other.

'Come here, Maurice,' quoth Albinia; 'put down the whip,' and she extracted it from his grasp,
with grave resolution, against which he made no struggle, gave it to Lucy to be put away, and
seated him on her knee.  'Now listen, Maurice; poor sister Sophy is tired, and you are never
to make a horse of her.  Do you hear?'

'Yes,' said Maurice, fidgeting.

'Mind, if ever you make a horse of Sophy, mamma will put you into the black cupboard.  You
understand?'

'Sophy shan't be horse,' said Maurice.  'Sophy naughty, lazy horse. Boy has Gibbie--'

'There's gratitude,' said Mr. Ferrars, as 'Boy' slid off his mamma's knee, stood on tiptoe
to pull the door open, and ran after Gilbert to grandmamma's room.

'Yes,' said Albinia, 'no one is grateful for services beyond all reason.  So, Sophy, mind,
into the cupboard he goes, the very next time you are so silly as to be a horse.'

'To punish which of them?' asked her brother.

'Sophy knows,' said Albinia.

Sophy was too miserable to smile.  Sarah Anne Drury had been calling, and on hearing of Gilbert's
indisposition, had favoured them with 'mamma's remarks,' and when Mrs. Kendal was blamed, Sophy
had indignantly told Sarah Anne that she knew nothing about it, and had no business to interfere.
Then followed the accusation, that Mrs. Kendal had set the whole family against their old friends,
and Sophy had found all her own besetting sins charged upon her step-mother.

'My dear!' said Albinia, 'don't you know that if a royal tiger were to eat up your cousin John
in India, the Drurys would say Mrs. Kendal always let the tigers run about loose!  Nor am I
sure that your faults are not my fault.  I helped you to be more exclusive and intolerant,
and I am sure I tried your temper, when I did not know what was the matter with you--'

'No--no,' said the choked voice.  It would have been an immense comfort to cry, or even to
be able to return the kiss; but she was a great deal too wretched to be capable of any demonstration;
physically exhausted by being driven about by Maurice; mentally worn out by the attempts to
be amiable, which had degenerated into wrangling, full of remorse for having made light of
her brother's illness, and, for that reason, persuaded that she was to be punished by seeing
it become fatal.  Not a word of all this did she say, but, dejected and silent, she spent the
evening in a lonely corner of the drawing-room, while her brother, in the full pleasure of
returning home, and greatly enjoying his invalid privileges, was discussing the projected improvements.

Talking at last brought back his cough with real violence, and he was sent to bed; Albinia
went up with him to see that his fire burnt.  He set Mr. Ferrars's drawing of the alms-houses
over his mantelshelf. 'I shall nail it up to-morrow,' he said.  'I always wanted a picture
here, and that's a jolly one to look to.'

'It would be a beautiful beginning,' she said.  'I think your life would go the better for
it, Gibbie.'

'I suppose old nurse would be too grand for one,' he said, 'but I should like to have her so
near!  And you must mind and keep old Mrs. Baker out of the Union for it.  And that famous
old blind sailor!  I shall put him up a bench to sit in the sun, and spin his yarns on, and
tell him to think himself at Greenwich.'

Albinia went down, only afraid that his being so very good was a dangerous symptom.

Sophy was far from well in the morning, and Albinia kept her upstairs, and sent her godfather
to make her a visit.  He always did her good; he knew how to probe deeply, and help her to
speak, and he gave her advice with more experience than his sister, and more encouragement
than her father.

Sophy said little, but her eyes had a softened look.

'One good thing about Sophy,' said he afterwards to his sister, 'is, that she will never talk
her feelings to death.'

'That reserve is my great pain.  I don't get at the real being once in six months.'

'So much the better for people living together.'

'Well, I was thinking that you and I are a great deal more intimate and confidential when we
meet now, than we used to be when we were always together.'

'People can't be often confidential from the innermost when they live together,' said Maurice.

'Since I have been a Kendal, such has been my experience.'

'It was the same before, only we concealed it by an upper surface of chatter,' said Maurice.
'"As iron sharpeneth iron, so doth a man the countenance of his friend;" but if the mutual
sharpening went on without intermission, both irons would wear away, and no work would be done.
Aren't you coming with me?  Edmund is going to drive me to Woodside to meet the pony-carriage
from home.'

'I wish I could; but you see what happens when I go out pleasuring!'

'Well, you can take one element of mischief with you--that imp, Maurice.'

'Ye--es.  Papa would like it, if you do.'

'I should like you to come on worse terms.'

'Very well, then; and Sophy is safe; I had already asked Genevieve to come and read to her
this afternoon.  If Gilbert can spare me, I will go.'

Gilbert did not want her, and begged Lucy not to think of staying indoors on his account. 
He was presently left in solitary possession of the drawing-room, whereupon he rose, settled
his brown locks at the glass, arranged his tie, brushed his cuffs, leisurely walked upstairs,
and tapped at the door of the morning-room, meekly asking, 'May I come in?' with a cough at
each end of the sentence.

'Oh! Gilbert!' cried his anxious sister, starting up.  'Are you come to see me?' and she would
have wheeled round her father's arm-chair for him, but Genevieve was beforehand with her, and
he sank into it, saying pathetically, 'Ah! thank you, Miss Durant; you are come to a perfect
hospital.  Oh! this is too much,' as she further gave him a footstool.  'Oh! no, thank you,
Sophy,' for she would have handed Genevieve her own pillow for his further support; 'this is
delightful!' reclining pathetically in his chair.  'This is not like Traversham.'

'Where they would not believe he was ill!' said Sophy.

'I hope he does not look so very ill,' said Genevieve, cheerfully, but this rather hurt the
feelings of both; the one said, 'Oh! but he is terribly pale,' the other coughed, and said,
'Looks are deceitful.'

'That is the very reason,' said Genevieve.  'You don't look deceitful enough to be so ill--so
ill as Miss Sophie fears; now you are at home, and well cared for, you will soon be well.'

'Care would have prevented it all,' said Sophy.

'And not brought me home!' said Gilbert.  'Home is home on any terms. No one there had the
least idea a fellow could ever be unwell or out of spirits!'

'Ah! you must have been ill,' cried his sister, 'you who never used to be miserable!'

Gilbert gave a sigh.  'They were such mere boys,' he said.

'Monsieur votre Precepteur?' asked Genevieve.

'Ah! he was otherwise occupied!'

'There is some mystery beneath,' said Genevieve, turning to Sophy, who exclaimed abruptly,
'Oh! is he in love?'

'Sophy goes to the point,' said Gilbert, smiling, the picture of languid comfort; 'but I own
there are suspicious circumstances.  He always has a photograph in his pocket, and Price has
seen him looking at it.'

'Ah! depend upon it, Miss Sophy, it is all a romance of these young gentlemen,' said Genevieve,
turning to her with a droll provoking air of confidence; 'ce pauvre Monsieur had the portrait
of his sister!'

'Catch me carrying Sophy's face in my waistcoat pocket, cried Gilbert, forgetting his languor.

'Speak for yourself, Mr. Gilbert,' laughed Genevieve.

'And he writes letters every day, and wont let any of us put them into the post for him; but
we know the direction begins with Miss--'

'Oh! the curious boys!' cried Genevieve.  'If I could only hint to this poor tutor to let them
read Miss Downton on one!'

'I assure you,' cried Gilbert, 'Price has laid a bet that she's an heiress with forty thousand
pounds and red hair.'

'Mr. Price is an impertinent!  I hope you will inform me how he looks when he is the loser.'

'But he has seen her!  He met Mr. Downton last Christmas in Regent Street, in a swell carriage,
with a lady with such carrots, he thought her bonnet was on fire; and Mr. Downton never saw
Price, though he bowed to him, and you know nobody would marry a woman with red hair unless
she was an heiress.'

'Miss Sophy,' whispered Genevieve, 'prepare for a red-haired sister-in-law.  I predict that
every one of the pupils of the respectable Mr. Downton will marry ladies with lively chestnut
locks.'

'What, you think me so mercenary, Genevieve?' said Gilbert.

'I only hope to see this school-boy logic well revenged!' said Genevieve.  'Mrs. Price shall
have locks of orange red, and for Mrs. Gilbert Kendal--ah! we will content ourselves with her
having a paler shade--sandy gold.'

'No,' said Gilbert, speaking slowly, turning round his eyes.  'I could tell you what Mrs. G.
Kendal's hair will be--'

Genevieve let this drop, and said, 'You do not want me: good-bye, Miss Sophie.'

'Going! why, you came to read to me, Genevieve,' exclaimed Sophy.

'Ah! I beg your pardon, I have been interrupting you all this time,' cried Gilbert; 'I never
meant to disturb you.  Pray let me listen.'

And Genevieve read while Gilbert resumed his reclining attitude, with half-closed eyes, listening
to the sweet intonations and pretty refined accent of the ancien regime.

Sophy enjoyed this exceedingly, she made it her especial occupation to take care of Gilbert,
and enter into his fireside amusements. This indisposition had drawn the two nearer together,
and essentially unlike as they were, their two characters seemed to be fitting well one into
the other.  His sentiment accorded with her strain of romance, and they read poetry and had
discussions as they sat over the fire, growing constantly into greater intimacy and confidence.
Sophy waited on him, and watched him perpetually, and her assiduity was imparting a softness
and warmth quite new to her, while the constant occupation kept affronts and vexations out
of her sight, and made her amiable.

Gilbert's health improved, though with vicissitudes that enforced the necessity of prudence.
Rash when well, and desponding at each renewal of illness, he was not easy to manage, but he
was always so gentle, grateful, and obliging, that he endeared himself to the whole household.
It was no novelty for him to be devoted to his step-mother and his little brother, but he was
likewise very kind to Lucy, and spent much time in helping in her pursuits; he was becoming
companionable to his father, and could play at chess sufficiently well to be a worthy antagonist
in Mr. Kendal's scientific and interminable games.  He would likewise play at backgammon with
grandmamma, and could entertain her for hours together by listening to her long stories of
the old Bayford world.  He was a favourite in her little society, and would often take a hand
at cards to make up a rubber, nay, even when not absolutely required, he was very apt to bestow
his countenance upon the little parties, where he had the pleasure of being treated as a great
man, and which, at least, had the advantage of making a variation in his imprisonment during
the east winds.

Madame Belmarche and her daughter and grandchild were sometimes of the party, and on these
occasions, Sophy always claimed Genevieve, and usually succeeded in carrying her off when Gilbert
would often join them.  Their books and prints were a great treat to her; Gilbert had a beautiful
illustrated copy of Longfellow's poems, and the engravings and 'Evangeline' were their enjoyment;
Gilbert regularly proffering the loan of the book, and she as regularly refusing it, and turning
a deaf ear to gentle insinuations of the pleasure of knowing that an book of his was in her
hands.  Gilbert had never had much of the schoolboy manner, and he was adopting a gentle, pathetic
tone, at which Albinia was apt to laugh, but in her absence was often verged upon tendresse,
especially with Genevieve.  She, however, by her perfect simplicity and lively banter, always
nipped the bud of his sentiment, she had known him from a child, and never lost the sense of
being his elder, treating him somewhat as a boy to be played with.  Perfectly aware of her
own position, her demeanour, frank and gracious as it was, had something in it which kept in
check other Bayford youths less gentlemanlike than Gilbert Kendal.  If she never forgot that
she was dancing-master's daughter, she never let any one else forget that she was a lady.

When the building began, Gilbert had a wholesome occupation, saving his father some trouble
and--not quite so much expense by overlooking the workmen.  Mr. Kendal was glad to be spared
giving orders and speaking to people, and would always rather be overcharged than be at the
pains of bargaining or inquiring.  'It was Gilbert's own house,' he said, 'and it was good
for the boy to take an interest in it, and not to be too much interfered with.'  So the bay
window and the conservatory were some degrees grander than Mr. Ferrars had proposed but all
was excused by the pleasure and experience they afforded Gilbert, and it was very droll to
see Maurice following him about after the workmen, watching them most knowingly, and deep in
mischief at every opportunity.  Once he had been up to his knees in a tempting blancmanger-like
lake of lime, many times had he hammered or cut his fingers, and once his legs had gone through
the new drawing-room ceiling, where he hung by the petticoats screaming till rescued by his
brother.  The room was under these auspices finished, and was a very successful affair--the
conservatory, in which the hall terminated, and into which a side door of the drawing-room
opened, gave a bright fragrant, flowery air to the whole house; and the low fireplace and comfortable
fan-shaped fender made the room very cheerful.  Fresh delicately-tinted furniture, chosen con
amore by the London aunts, had made the apartment very unlike old Willow-Lawn, and Albinia
had so much enjoyed setting it off to the best advantage, that she sent word to Winifred that
she was really becoming a furniture fancier.

It was a very pretty paper, and some choice prints hung on it, but Albinia and Sophy had laid
violent hands on all the best-looking books, and kept them for the equipment of one of the
walls.  The rest were disposed, for Mr. Kendal's delectation, in the old drawing-room, henceforth
to be named the library.  Lucy thought it sounded better, and he was quite as willing as Albinia
was that the name of study should be extinct.  Meantime Mr. Downton had verified the boys'
prediction by writing to announce that he was about to marry and give up pupils.

Gilbert was past seventeen, and it was time to decide on his profession.  Albinia had virtuously
abstained from any hint adverse to the house of Kendal and Kendal, for she knew it hurt her
husband's feelings to hear any disparagement of the country where he had spent some of his
happiest years.  He was fond of his cousins, and knew that they would give his son a safe and
happy home, and he believed that the climate was exactly what his health needed.

Sophy fired at the idea.  Her constant study of the subject and her vivid imagination had taken
the place of memory, which could supply nothing but the glow of colouring and the dazzling
haze which enveloped all the forms that she would fain believe that she remembered.  She and
her father would discuss Indian scenery as if they had been only absent from it a year, she
envied Gilbert his return thither, but owned that it was the next thing to going herself, and
was already beginning to amass a hoard of English gifts for the old ayahs and bearers who still
lived in her recollection, in preparation for the visit which on his first holiday her brother
must pay to her birthplace and first home.

Gilbert, however, took no part in this enthusiasm, he made no opposition, but showed no alacrity;
and at last his father asked Albinia whether she knew of any objection on his part, or any
design which he might be unwilling to put forward.  With a beating heart she avowed her cherished
scheme.

'Is this his own proposal?' asked Mr. Kendal.

'No; he has never spoken of it, but your plan has always seemed so decided that perhaps he
thinks he has no choice.'

'That is not what I wish,' said his father.  'If his inclinations be otherwise, he has only
to speak, and I will consider.'

'Shall I sound him?' suggested Albinia, dreading the timidity that always stood between the
boy and his father.

'Do not inspire him with the wish and then imagine it his own,' said Mr. Kendal; and then thinking
he had spoken sternly, added 'I know you would be the last to wish him to take holy orders
inconsiderately, but you have such power over him, that I question whether he would know his
wishes from yours.'

Albinia began to disavow the desire of actuating him.

'You would not intend it, but he would catch the desire from you, and I own I would rather
he were not inspired with it.  If he now should express it, I should fear it was the unconscious
effort to escape from India.  If it had been his brother Edmund, I would have made any sacrifice,
but I do not think Gilbert has the energy or force of character I should wish to see in a clergyman,
nor do I feel willing to risk him at the university.'

'Oh! Edmund, why will you distrust Oxford?  Why will you not believe what I know through Maurice
and his friends?'

'If my poor boy had either the disposition or the discipline of your brother, I should not
feel the same doubt.'

'Maurice had no discipline except at school and when William licked him,' cried Albinia.  'You
know he was but eleven years old when my father died, and my aunts spoilt us without mitigation.'

'I said the disposition,' repeated Mr. Kendal; 'I can see nothing in Gilbert marking him for
a clergyman, and I think him susceptible to the temptations that you cannot deny to exist at
any college.  Nor would I desire to see him fixed here, until he has seen something of life
and of business, for which this bank affords the greatest facilities with the least amount
of temptation.  He would also be doing something for his own support; and with the life-interests
upon his property, he must be dependent on his own exertions, unless I were to do more for
him than would be right by the other children.'

'Then I am to say nothing to him?'

'I will speak to him myself.  He is quite old enough to understand his prospects and decide
for himself.'

'But, Edmund,' cried Albinia, with sudden vehemence, 'you are not sacrificing Gilbert for Maurice's
sake?'

She had more nearly displeased him than she had ever done before, though he looked up quietly,
saying, 'Certainly not.  I am not sacrificing Gilbert, and I should do the same if Maurice
were not in existence.'

She was too much ashamed of her foolish fancy to say more, and she cooled into candour sufficient
to perceive that he was wise in distrusting her tact where her preference was so strong.  But
she foresaw that Gilbert would shrink and falter before his father, and that the conference
would lead to no discovery of his views, and she was not surprised when her husband told her
that he could not understand the boy, and believed that the truth was, that he would like to
do nothing at all.  It had ended by Mr. Kendal, in a sort of despair, undertaking to write
to his cousin John for a statement of what would be required, after which the decision was
to be made.

Meantime Mr. Kendal advised Gilbert to attend to arithmetic and book-keeping, and offered to
instruct him in his long-forgotten Hindostanee.  Sophy learnt all these with all her heart,
but Gilbert always had a pain in his chest if he sat still at any kind of study!

CHAPTER XV.

Colonel Bury was the most open-hearted old bachelor in the country. His imagination never could
conceive the possibility of everybody not being glad to meet everybody, his house could never
be too full, his dinner-parties of 'a few friends' overflowed the dining-room, and his 'nobody'
meant always at least six bodies.  Every season was fertile in occasions of gathering old and
young together to be made happy, and little Mary Ferrars, at five years old, had told her mamma
that 'the Colonel's parties made her quite dissipated.'

One bright summer day, his beaming face appeared at Willow-Lawn with a peremptory invitation.
His nephew and heir had newly married a friend of Albinia's girlhood, and was about to pay
his wedding visit. Too happy to keep his guests to himself, the Colonel had fixed the next
Thursday for a fete, and wanted all the world to come to it--the Kendals, every one of them--if
they could only sleep there--but Albinia brought him to confession that he had promised to
lodge five people more than the house would hold; and the aunts were at the parsonage, where
nobody ventured to crowd their servants.

But there was a moon--and though Mr. Kendal would not allow that she was the harvest moon,
the hospitable Colonel dilated on her as if she had been bed, board, and lodging, and he did
not find much difficulty in his persuasions.

Few invitations ever gave more delight; Albinia appreciated a holiday to the utmost, and the
whole family was happy at Sophy's chance of at length seeing Fairmead, and taking part in a
little gaiety.  And if Mr. Kendal's expectations of pleasure were less high, he submitted very
well, smiled benignantly at the felicity around him, and was not once seen to shudder.

Sarah Anne Drury had been invited to enliven grandmamma, and every one augured a beautiful
day and perfect enjoyment.  The morning was beautiful, but alas! Sophy was hors de combat,
far too unwell to think of making one of the party.  She bore the disappointment magnanimously,
and even the pity.  Every one was sorry, and Gilbert wanted her to go and wait at Fairmead
Parsonage for the chance of improving, promising to come and fetch her for any part of the
entertainment; and her father told her that he had looked to her as his chief companion while
the gay people were taking their pleasure. No one was uncomfortably generous enough to offer
to stay at home with her; but Lucy suggested asking Genevieve to come and take care of her.

'Nay,' said Sophy, 'it would be much better if she were to go in my stead.'

Gilbert and Lucy both uttered an exclamation; and Sophy added, 'She would have so much more
enjoyment than I could!  Oh, it would quite make up for my missing it!'

'My dear,' said grandmamma, 'you don't know what you are talking of. It would be taking such
a liberty.'

'There need be no scruples on that score,' said Albinia; 'the Colonel would only thank me if
I brought him half Bayford.'

'Then,' cried Sophy, 'you think we may ask her?  Oh, I should like to run up myself;'--and
a look of congratulation and gratitude passed between her and her brother.

'No, indeed, you must not, let me go,' said Lucy, 'I'll just finish this cup of tea--'

'My dear, my dear,' interposed Mrs. Meadows, 'pray consider.  She is a very good little girl
in her way, but it is only giving her a taste for things out of her station'

'Oh! don't say that, dear grandmamma,' interposed Albinia, 'one good festival does carry one
so much better through days of toil!'

'Ah, well! my dear, you will do as you think proper; but considering who the poor child is,
I should call it no kindness to bring her forward in company.'

Something passed between the indignant Gilbert and Sophy about French counts and marquises,
but Lucy managed much better.  'Dear me, grandmamma, nobody wishes to bring her forward.  She
will only play with the children, and see the fireworks, and no one will speak to her.'

Albinia averted further discussion till grandmamma had left the breakfast-table, when all four
appealed with one voice to Mr. Kendal, who saw no objection, whereupon Lucy ran off, while
Albinia finished her arrangements for the well-being of grandmamma, Sophy, and Maurice, who
were as difficult to manage as the fox, goose, and cabbage.   At every turn she encountered
Gilbert, touching up his toilette at each glass, and seriously consulting her and Sophy upon
the choice between lilac and lemon-coloured gloves, and upon the bows of his fringed neck-tie.

'My dear Gilbert,' said Albinia, on the fifth anxious alternative, 'it is of no use.  No living
creature will be the wiser, and do what you will, you will never look half so well as your father.'

Gilbert flung aside, muttering something about 'fit to be seen,' but just then Lucy hurried
in.  'Oh! mamma, she wont go--she is very much obliged, but she can't go.'

'Can't! she must,' cried Albinia and Gilbert together.

'She says you are very kind, but that she cannot.  I said everything I could; I told her she
should wear Sophy's muslin mantle, or my second best polka.'

'No doubt you went and made a great favour of it,' said Gilbert.

'No, I assure you I did not; I persuaded her with all my might; I said mamma wished it, and
we all wished it; and I am sure she would really have been very glad if she could have gone.'

'It can't be the school, it is holiday time,' said Gilbert.  'I'll go and see what is the matter.'

'No, I will go,' said Albinia, 'I will ask the old ladies to luncheon here, and that will make
her happy, and make it easier for Sophy to get on with Sarah Anne Drury.'

Lucy had seen Genevieve alone; Albinia took her by storm before Madame Belmarche, whose little
black eyes sparkled as she assured Mrs. Kendal that the child merited that and every other
pleasure; and when Genevieve attempted to whisper objections, silenced her with an embrace,
saying, 'Ah! my love, where is your gratitude to Madame? Have no fears for us.  Your pleasure
will be ours for months to come.'

The liquid sweetness of Genevieve's eyes spoke of no want of gratitude, and with glee which
she no longer strove to repress, she tripped away to equip herself, and Albinia heard her clear
young voice upstairs, singing away the burthen of some queer old French ditty.

Albinia found Gilbert and Sophy in disgrace with Lucy for having gathered the choicest flowers,
which they were eagerly making up into bouquets.  Genevieve's was ready before she arrived
in the prettiest tremor of gratitude and anticipation, and presented to her by Gilbert, whilst
Sophy looked on, and blushed crimson, face, neck, and all, as Genevieve smelt and admired the
white roses that had so cruelly been reft from Lucy's beloved tree.

With every advantage of pretty features, good complexion, and nice figure, the English Lucy,
in her blue-and-white checked silk, worked muslin mantle, and white chip bonnet with blue ribbons,
was eclipsed by the small swarthy French girl, in that very old black silk dress, and white
trimmed coarse straw bonnet, just enlivened by little pink bows at the neck and wrists.  It
had long been acknowledged that Genevieve was unrivalled in the art of tying bows, and those
pink ones were paragons, redolent of all her own fresh sprightly archness and refinement. 
Albinia herself was the best representative of English good looks, and never had she been more
brilliant, her rich chestnut hair waving so prettily on the rounded contour of her happy face,
her fair cheek tinted with such a healthy fresh bloom, her grey eyes laughing with merry softness,
her whole person so alert and elastic with exuberant life and enjoyment, that grandmamma was
as happy in watching her as if she had been her own daughter, and stroked down the broad flounces
of her changeable silk, and admired her black lace, as if she felt the whole family exalted
by Mrs. Kendal's appearance.

It was a merry journey, through the meadows and corn-fields, laughing in the summer sunshine,
and in due time they saw the flag upon Fairmead steeple, and Albinia nodded to curtseying old
friends at the cottage doors.  The lodge gate swung open wide, and the well-known striped marquee
was seen among the trees in the distance, as they went up the carriage road; but at the little
iron gate leading to the shrubbery there was a halt; Mr. Ferrars called to the carriage to
stop, and opened the door.  At the same moment Albinia gave a cry of wonder, and exclaimed,
'Why, Fred? is William here?'

'No; at Montreal, but very well,' was the answer, with a hearty shake of the hand.

'Edmund, it is Fred Ferrars,' said Albinia.  'Why, Maurice, you never told us.'

'He took us by surprise yesterday.'

'Yes; I landed yesterday morning, went to the Family Office, found Belraven was nowhere, and
the aunts at Fairmead, and so came on here,' explained Fred, as be finished shaking hands with
all the party, and walked on beside Albinia.  He was tall, fresh-coloured, a good deal like
her, with a long fair moustache, and light, handsome figure; and Lucy, though rather disconcerted
at Genevieve being taken for one of themselves, began eagerly to whisper her conviction that
he was Lord Belraven's brother, mamma's first cousin, captain in the 25th Lancers, and aide-de-camp
to General Ferrars.

It was the first meeting since an awkward parting.  The only son of a foolish second marriage,
and early left an orphan, Frederick Ferrars bad grown up under the good aunts' charge, somewhat
neglected by his half-brother, by many years his senior.  He was little older than Albinia,
and a merry, bantering affection had always subsisted between them, till he had begun to give
it the air of something more than friendship.  Albinia was, however, of a nature to seek for
something of depth and repose, on which to rely for support and anchorage.  Fred's vivacious
disposition had never for a moment won her serious attachment; she was 'very fond of him,'
but no more; her heart was set on sharing her brother's life as a country pastor.  She went
to Fairmead, Fred was carried off by the General to Canada, and she presently heard of his
hopeless attachment to a lovely Yankee, whom he met on board the steamer.  All this was now
cast behind the seven most eventful years of Albinia's life; and in the dignity of her matronhood,
she looked more than ever on 'poor Fred' as a boy, and was delighted to see him again, and
to hear of her brother William.

A few steps brought them to the shade of the large cedar-tree, where was seated Winifred, and
Mrs. Annesley was with her.  The greetings had hardly been exchanged before the Colonel came
upon them in all his glory, with his pretty shy bride niece on his arm, looking very like the
Alice Percy of the old times, when Fred used to tease the two girls.

Genevieve was made heartily welcome, and Sophia's absence deplored, and then the Colonel carried
off the younger ones to the archery, giving his arm to the much-flattered Lucy, and followed
by Gilbert and Genevieve, with Willie and Mary adhering to them closely, and their governess
in sight.

Mr. Ferrars and Mr. Kendal fell into one of their discussions, and paced up and down the shady
walk, while Albinia sat, in the complete contentment, between Alice and Winifred, with Fred
Ferrars on the turf at their feet, living over again the bygone days, laughing over ancient
jokes, resuscitating past scrapes, tracing the lot of old companions, or telling mischievous
anecdotes of each other, for the very purpose of being contradicted.  They were much too light-hearted
to note the lapse of time, till Maurice came to take his wife home, thinking she had had fatigue
enough.  Mrs. Annesley went with her, and Albinia, on looking for her husband, was told that
he had fallen in with some old Indian acquaintances; and Charles Bury presently came to find
his wife, and conduct the party to luncheon.  There was no formal meal, but a perpetual refection
laid out in the dining-room, for relays of guests.  Fred took care of Albinia and here they
met Miss Ferrars, who had been with one of her old friends, to whom she was delighted to exhibit
her nephew and niece in their prime of good looks.

'But I must go,' said Albinia; 'having found the provisions, I must secure that Mr. Kendal
and the children are not famished.'

Fred came with her, and she turned down the long alley leading to the archery-ground.  He felt
old times so far renewed as to resume their habits of confidence, and began, 'I suppose the
General has not told you what has brought me home?'

'He has not so much as told me you were coming.'

'Ay, ay, of course you know how he treats those things.'

'Oh--h!' said Albinia, perfectly understanding.

'But,' continued Frederick, eagerly, 'even he confesses that she is the very sweetest--I mean,'
as Albinia smiled at this evident embellishment, 'even he has not a word of objection to make
except the old story about married officers.'

'And who is she, Fred?'

'Oh, mamma, there you are!' and Lucy joined them as they emerged on the bowling-green, where
stood the two bright targets, and the groups of archers, whose shafts, for the most part, flew
far and wide.

'Where are the rest, my dear? are they shooting?'

'Yes; Gilbert has been teaching Genevieve--there, she is shooting now.'

The little light figure stood in advance.  Gilbert held her arrows, and another gentleman appeared
to be counselling her.  There seemed to be general exultation when one of her arrows touched
the white ring outside the target.

'That has been her best shot,' said Lucy.  'I am sure I would not shoot in public unless I
knew how!'

'Do you not like shooting?' asked Captain Ferrars; and Lucy smiled, and lost her discontented air.

'It hurts my fingers, she said; 'and I have always so much to do in the garden.'

Albinia asked if she had had anything to eat.

'Oh, yes; the Colonel asked Gilbert to carve in the tent there, for the children and governesses,'
said Lucy, 'he and Genevieve were very busy there, but I found I was not of much use so, I
came away with the Miss Bartons to look at the flowers, but now they are shooting, and I could
not think what had become of you.'

And Lucy bestowed her company on Albinia and the Captain, reducing him to dashing, disconnected
talk, till they met Mr. Kendal, searching for them in the same fear that they were starving,
and anxious to introduce his wife to his Indian friends.  When at the end of the path, Albinia
looked round, the Lancer had disappeared, and Lucy was walking by her father, trying to look
serenely amused by a discussion on the annexation of the Punjaub.

The afternoon was spent in pleasant loitering, chiefly with Miss Ferrars, who asked much after
Sophy, lamented greatly over Winifred's delicate health, and was very anxious to know what
could have brought Fred home, being much afraid it was some fresh foolish attachment.

Ominous notes were heard from the band, and the Colonel came to tell them that there was to
be dancing till it was dark enough for the fireworks, his little Alice had promised him her
first country-dance. Fred Ferrars emerged again with a half-laughing, half-imploring, 'For
the sake of old times, Albinia!  We've been partners before!'

'You'll take care of Lucy,' said Albinia, turning to her aunt; but Mr. Winthrop had already
taken pity on her, and Albinia was led off by her cousin to her place in the fast lengthening
rank.  How she enjoyed it!  She had cared little for London balls after the first novelty,
but these Fairmead dances on the turf had always had an Arcadian charm to her fancy, and were
the more delightful after so long an interval, in the renewal of the old scene, and the recognition
of so many familiar faces.

With bounding step and laughing lips, she flew down the middle, more exhilarated every moment,
exchanging merry scraps of talk with her partner or bright fragments as she poussetted with
pair after pair; and when the dance was over, with glowing complexion and eyes still dancing,
she took Fred's arm, and heard the renewal of his broken story--the praise of his Emily, the
fairest of Canadians, whom even the General could not dislike, though, thorough soldier as
he was, he would fain have had all military men as devoid of encumbrances as himself, and thought
an officer's wife one of the most misplaced articles in the world.  Poor Fred had been in love
so often, that he laboured under the great vexation of not being able to persuade any of his
friends to regard his passion seriously, but Albinia was quite sisterly enough to believe him
this time, and give full sympathy to his hopes and fears.  Far less wealth had fallen to his
lot than to that of his cousins, and his marriage must depend on what his brother would 'do
for him,' a point on which he tried to be sanguine, and Albinia encouraged him against probability,
for Lord Belraven was never liberal towards his relations, and had lately married an expensive
wife, with whom he lived chiefly abroad.

This topic was not exhausted when Fred fell a prey to the Colonel, who insisted on his dancing
again, and Albinia telling him to do his duty, he turned towards a group that had coalesced
round Miss Ferrars, consisting of Lucy, Gilbert, Genevieve, and the children from the parsonage,
and at once bore off the little Frenchwoman, leaving more than one countenance blank.  Lucy
and Willie did their best for mutual consolation, while Albinia undertook to preside over her
niece and a still smaller partner in red velvet, in a quadrille. It was amusing to watch the
puzzled downright motions of the sturdy little bluff King Hal, and the earnest precision of
the prim little damsel, and Albinia hovering round, now handing one, now pointing to the other,
keeping lightly out of every one's way, and far more playful than either of the small performers
in this solemn undertaking.  As it concluded she found that Mr. Kendal had been watching her,
with much entertainment, and she was glad to take his arm, and assure herself that he had not
been miserable, but had been down to the parsonage, where he had read the newspaper in peace,
and had enjoyed a cup of tea in quiet with Winifred and Mrs. Annesley.

The dancing had been transferred to the tent, which presented a very pretty scene from without,
looking through the drooping festoons of evergreens at the lamps and the figures flitting to
and fro in their measured movements, while the shrubs and dark foliage of the trees fell into
gloom around; and above, the sky assumed the deep tranquil blue of night, the pale bright stars
shining out one by one.  The Kendals were alone in the terrace, far enough from the gay tumult
to be sensible of the contrast.

'How beautiful!' said Albinia: 'it is like a poem.'

'I was just thinking so,' he answered.

'This is the best part of all,' she said, feeling, though hardly expressing to herself the
repose of his lofty, silent serenity, standing aloof from gaiety and noise.  She could have
compared him and her lively cousin to the evening stillness contrasted with the mirthful scene
in the tent; and though her nature seemed to belong to the busy world, her best enjoyment lay
with what calmed and raised her above herself; and she was perfectly happy, standing still
with her arm upon that of her silent husband.

'These things are well imagined,' said he.  'The freedom and absence of formality give space
for being alone and quiet.'

'Yes,' said Albinia, saucily, 'when that is what you go into society for.'

'You have me there,' he said, smiling; 'but I must own how much I enjoyed coming back from
the parsonage by myself.  I am glad we brought that little Genevieve; she seems to be so perfectly
in her element.  I saw her amusing a set of little children in the prettiest, most animated
way; and afterwards, when the young people were playing at some game, her gestures were so
sprightly and graceful, that no one could look at the English girls beside her. Indeed I think
she was making quite a sensation; your cousin seemed to admire her very much.  If she were
but in another station, she would shine anywhere.'

'How much you have seen, Edmund!'

'I have been a spectator, you an actor,' he said, smiling.

Her quiescence did not long continue, for the poor people had begun to assemble on the gravel
road before the front door to see the fireworks, and she hurried away to renew her acquaintance
with her village friends, guessing at them in the dark, asking after old mothers and daughters
at service, inquiring the names of new babies, and whether the old ones were at school, and
excusing herself for having become 'quite a stranger.'

In the midst--whish--hiss, with steady swiftness, up shot in the dark purple air the first
rocket, bursting and scattering a rain of stars. There was an audible gasp in the surrounding
homely world, a few little cries, and a big boy clutched tight hold of her arm, saying, 'I
be afeard.'  She was explaining away his alarms, when she heard her brother's voice, and found
her arm drawn into his.

'Here you are, then,' he said; 'I thought I heard your voice.'

'Oh! Maurice, I have hardly seen you.  Let us have a nice quiet turn in the park together.'

He resisted, saying, 'I don't approve of parents and guardians losing themselves.  What have
you done with all your children?'

'What have you done with yours?' retorted she.

'I left Willie and Mary at the window with their governess, I came to see that these other
children of mine were orderly.'

'Most proper, prudential, and exemplary Maurice!' his sister laughed. 'Now I have an equally
hearty belief in my children being somewhere, sure to turn up when wanted.  Come, I want to
get out from the trees to look for Colonel Bury's harvest moon, for I believe she is an imposition.'

'No, I'm not coming.  You, don't understand your duties.  Your young ladies ought always to
know where to find you, and you where to find them.'

'Oh! Maurice, what must you have suffered before you imported Winifred to chaperon me!'

'You are in so mad a mood that I shall attempt only one moral maxim, and that is, that no one
should set up for a chaperon, till she has retired from business on her own account.'

'That's a stroke at my dancing with poor Fred, but it was his only chance of speaking to me.'

'Not particularly at the dancing.'

'Well, then--'

'You'll see, by-and-bye.  It was not your fault if those girls were not in all sorts of predicaments.'

'I believe you think life is made up of predicaments.  And I want to hear whether William has
written to you anything about poor Fred.'

'Only that he is more mad than ever, and that he let him go, thinking that there is no chance
of Belraven helping him, but that it may wear itself out on the journey.'

A revolving circle shedding festoons of purple and crimson jets of fire made all their talk
interjectional, and they had by this time reached the terrace, where all the company were assembled,
the open windows at regular intervals casting bewildering lights on the heads and shoulders
in front of them.  Then out burst a grand wheat-sheaf of yellow flame with crimson ears and
beards, by whose light Albinia recognised Gilbert standing close to her in the shadow, and
asked him where the rest where.'

'I can't tell; Lucy and my father were here just now.'

'Are you feeling the chill, Gilbert?' asked Albinia, struck by something in his tone.  'You
had better look from the window.'

He neither moved nor made answer, but a great illumination of Colonel Bury's coat-of-arms,
with Roman candles and Chinese trees at the four corners, engrossed every eye, and flashing
on every face, enabled Albinia to join Mr. Kendal, who was with Lucy and Miss Ferrars.  No
one knew where Genevieve was, but Albinia was confident that she could take good care of herself,
and was not too uneasy to enjoy the grand representation of Windsor Castle, and the finale
of interlaced ciphers amidst a multitude of little fretful sputtering tongues of flame.  Then
it was, amid good nights, donning of shawls, and announcing of carriages, that Captain Ferrars
and Miss Durant made their appearance together, having been 'looking everywhere for Mrs. Kendal,'
and it was not in the nature of a brother not to look a little arch, though Albinia returned
him as resolute and satisfied a glance as could express 'Well, what of that?'

In consideration of the night air, Mr. Kendal put Gilbert inside the carriage, and mounted
the box, to revel in the pleasures of silence. The four within talked incessantly and compared
adventures.  Lucy had been gratified by being patronized by Miss Ferrars, and likewise had
much to say of the smaller fry, and went into raptures about many a 'dear little thing,' none
of whom would, however, stand a comparison with Maurice; Gilbert was critical upon every one's
beauty; and Genevieve was more animated than all, telling anecdotes with great piquancy, and
rehearsing the comical Yankee stories she had heard from Captain Ferrars.  She had enjoyed
with the zest and intensity of a peculiarly congenial temperament, and she seemed not to be
able to cease from working off her excitement in repetitions of her thanks, and in discussing
the endless delights the day had afforded.

But the day had begun early, and the way was long, so remarks became scanty, and answers were
brief and went astray, and Albinia thought she was travelling for ever to Montreal, when she
was startled by a pettish exclamation from Lucy, 'Is that all!  It was not worth while to wake
me only to see the moon.'

'I beg your pardon,' said Genevieve, 'but I thought Mrs. Kendal wished to see it rise.'

'Thank you, Genevieve,' said Albinia, opening her sleepy eyes; 'she is as little worth seeing
as a moon can well be, a waning moon does well to keep untimely hours.'

'Why do you think she is so much more beautiful in the crescent, Mrs. Kendal?' said Genevieve,
in the most wakeful manner.

'I'm sure I don't know,' said Albinia, subsiding into her corner.

'Is it from the situation of the mountains in the moon?' continued the pertinacious damsel.

'In Africa!' said Albinia, well-nigh asleep, but Genevieve's laugh roused her again, partly
because she thought it less mannerly than accorded with the girl's usual politeness.  No mere
sleep was allowed her; an astronomical passion seemed to have possessed the young lady, and
she dashed into the tides, and the causes of the harvest-moon, and volcanoes, and thunderbolts,
and Lord Rosse's telescope, forcing her tired friend to reply by direct appeals, till Albinia
almost wished her in the moon herself; and was rejoiced when in the dim greyness of the early
summer dawn, the carriage drew up at Madame Belmarche's house.  As the light from the weary
maid's candle flashed on Genevieve's face, it revealed such a glow of deep crimson on each
brown cheek, that Albinia perceived that the excitement must have been almost fever, and went
to bed speculating on the strange effects of a touch of gaiety on the hereditary French nature,
startling her at once from her graceful propriety and humility of demeanour, into such extraordinary
obtrusive talkativeness.

She heard more the next morning that vexed her.  Lucy was seriously of opinion that Genevieve
had not been sufficiently retiring.  She herself had heedfully kept under the wing of Mary's
governess, mamma, or Miss Ferrars, and nobody had paid her any particular attention; but Genevieve
had been with Gilbert half the day, had had all the gentlemen round her at the archery and
in the games, had no end of partners in the dances, and had walked about in the dark with Captain
Ferrars.  Lucy was sure she was taken for her sister, and whenever she had told people the
truth, they had said how pretty she was.

'You are jealous, Lucy,' Sophy said.

Lucy protested that it was quite the reverse.  She was glad poor little Jenny should meet with
any notice, there was no cause for jealousy of her, and she threw back her head in conscious
beauty; 'only she was sorry for Jenny, for they were quite turning her head, and laughing at
her all the time.'

Albinia's candour burst out as usual, 'Say no more about it, my dear; it was a mistake from
beginning to end.  I was too much taken up with my own diversion to attend to you, and now
you are punishing me for it.  I left you to take care of yourselves, and exposed poor little
Genevieve to unkind remarks.'

'I don't know what I said,' began Lucy.  'I don't mean to blame her; it was just as she always
is with Gilbert, so very French.'

That word settled it--Lucy pronounced it with ineffable pity and contempt--she was far less
able to forgive another for being attractive, than for trying to attract.

Sophy looked excessively hurt and grieved, and in private asked her step-mother what she thought
of Genevieve's behaviour.

'My dear, I cannot tell; I think she was off her guard with excitement; but all was very new
to her, and there was every excuse. I was too happy to be wise, so no wonder she was.'

'And do you think Captain Ferrars was laughing at her?  I wish you would tell her, mamma. 
Gilbert says he is a fine, flourishing officer in moustaches, who, he is sure, flirts with
and breaks the heart of every girl he meets.  If he is right, mamma, it would cure Genevieve
to tell her so, and you would not mind it, though he is your cousin.'

'Poor Fred!' said Albinia.  'I am sorry Gilbert conceived such a notion.  But Genevieve's heart
is too sensible to break in that way, even if Fred wished it, and I can acquit him of such
savage intentions.  I never should have seen any harm in all that Genevieve did last night
if she had not talked us to death coming home!  Still I think she was off her balance, and
I own I am disappointed.  But we don't know what it is to be born French!'

CHAPTER XVI.

'Mrs. Kendal, dear Madame, a great favour, could you spare me a few moments?'

A blushing face was raised with such an expression of contrite timidity, that Albinia felt
sure that the poor little Frenchwoman had recovered from her brief intoxication, and wanted
to apologize and be comforted, so she said kindly,

'I was wishing to see you, my dear; I was afraid the day had been too much for you; I was certain
you were feverish.'

'Ah! you were so good to make excuses for me.  I am so ashamed when I think how tedious, how
disagreeable I must have been.  It was why I wished to speak to you.'

'Never mind apologies, my dear; I have felt and done the like many a time--it is the worst
of enjoying oneself.'

'Oh! that was not all--I could not help it--enjoyment--no!' stammered Genevieve.  'If you would
be kind enough to come this way.'

She opened her grandmother's back gate, the entrance to a slip of garden smothered in laurels,
and led the way to a small green arbour, containing a round table, transformed by calico hangings
into what the embroidered inscription called 'Autel a l'Amour filial et maternel,' bearing
a plaster vase full of fresh flowers, but ere Albinia had time to admire this achievement of
French sentiment, Genevieve exclaimed, clasping her hands, 'Oh, madame, pardon me, you who
are so good!  You will tell no one, you will bring on him no trouble, but you will tell him
it is too foolish--you will give him back his billet, and forbid him ever to send another.'

Spite of the confidence about Emily, spite of all unreason, such was the family opinion of
Fred's propensity to fall in love, that Albinia's first suspicion lighted upon him, but as
her eye fell on the pink envelope the handwriting concerned her even more nearly.

'Gilbert!' she cried.  'My dear, what is this?  Do you wish me to read it?'

'Yes, for I cannot.'  Genevieve turned away, as in his best hand, and bad it was, Albinia read
the commencement--

"My hope, my joy, my Genevieve!"

In mute astonishment Albinia looked up, and met Genevieve's eyes. 'Oh, madame, you are displeased
with me!' she cried in despair, misinterpreting the look, 'but indeed I could not help it.'

'My dear child,' said Albinia, affectionately putting her arm round her waist, and drawing
her down on the seat beside her, 'indeed I am not displeased with you; you are doing the very
best thing possible by us all.  Think I am your sister, and tell me what is the meaning of
all this, and then I will try to help you.'

'Oh, madame, you are too good,' said Genevieve, weeping; and kindly holding the trembling hand,
Albinia finished the letter, herself. 'Silly boy!  Genevieve, dear girl, you must set my mind
at rest; this is too childish--this is not the kind of thing that would touch your affections,
I am sure.'

'Oh! pour cela non,' said Genevieve.  'Oh! no; I am grateful to Mr. Gilbert Kendal, for, even
as a little boy, he was always kind to me, but for the rest--he is so young, madame, even if
I could forget--'

'I see,' said Albinia.  'I am sure that you are much too good and sensible at your age to waste
a moment's thought or pain on such a foolish boy, as he certainly is, Genevieve, though not
so foolish in liking you, whatever he may be in the way of expressing it.  Though of course--'
Albinia had floundered into a dreadful bewilderment between her sense of Genevieve's merits
and of the incompatibility of their station, and she plunged out by asking, 'And how long has
this been going on?'

Genevieve hesitated.  'To speak the truth, madame, I have long seen that, like many other youths,
he would be--very attentive if one were not guarded; but I had known him so long, that perhaps
I did not soon enough begin, to treat him en jeune homme.

'And this is his first letter?'

'Oh! yes, madame.'

'He complains that you will not hear him?  Do you dislike to tell me if anything had passed
previously?'

'Thursday,' was slightly whispered.

'Thursday! ah! now I begin to understand the cause of your being suddenly moon-struck.'

'Ah! madame, pardon me!'

'I see--it was the only way to avoid a tete-a-tete!' said Albinia. 'Well done, Genevieve. 
What had he been saying to you, my dear?'

Poor Genevieve cast about for a word, and finally faltered out, 'Des sottises, Madame.'

'That I can well believe,' said Albinia.  'Well, my dear--'

'I think,' pursued Genevieve, 'that he was vexed because I would not let him absorb me exclusively
at Fairmead; and began to reproach me, and protest--'

'And like a wise woman you waked the sleeping dragon,' said Albinia. 'Was this all?'

'No, madame; so little had passed, that I hoped it was only the excitement, and that he would
forget; but on Saturday he met me in the flagged path, and oh! he said a great deal, though
I did my best to convince him that he could only make himself be laughed at.  I hoped even
then that he was silenced, and that I need not mention it, but I see he has been watching me,
and I dare not go out alone lest I should meet him.  He called this morning, and not seeing
me left this note.'

'Do your grandmother and aunt know?'

'Oh, no!  I would far rather not tell them.  Need I?  Oh! madame, surely you can speak to him,
and no one need ever hear of it?' implored Genevieve.  'You have promised me that no one shall
be told!'

'No one shall, my dear.  I hope soon to tell you that he is heartily ashamed of having teased
you.  No one need be ashamed of thinking you very dear and good--you can't help being loveable,
but Master Gibbie has no right to tell you so, and we'll put an end to it.  He will soon be
in India out of your way.  Good-bye!'

Albinia kissed the confused and blushing maiden, and walked away, provoked, yet diverted.

She found Gilbert alone, and was not slow in coming to the point, endeavouring to model her
treatment on that of her brother, the General, towards his aide-de-camp in the like predicaments.

'Gilbert, I want to speak to you. I am afraid you have been making yourself troublesome to
Miss Durant.  You are old enough to know better than to write such a note as this.'

He was all one blush, made an inarticulate exclamation, and burst out, 'That abominable treacherous
old wooden doll of a mademoiselle.'

'No, Miss Belmarche knows nothing of it.  No one ever shall if you will promise to drive this
nonsense out of your head.'

'Nonsense!  Mrs. Kendal!' with a gesture of misery.

'Gilbert, you are making yourself absurd.'

He turned about, and would have marched out of the room, but she pursued him. 'You must listen
to me.  It is not fit that you should carry on this silly importunity.  It is exceedingly distressing
to her, and might lead to very unpleasant and hurtful remarks.'  Seeing him look sullen, she
took breath, and considered.  'She came to me in great trouble, and begged me to restore your
letter, and tell you never to repeat the liberty.'

He struck his hand on his brow, crying vehemently, 'Cruel girl!  She little knows me--you little
know me, if you think I am to be silenced thus.  I tell you I will never cease!  I am not bound
by your pride, which has sneered down and crushed the loveliest--'

'Not mine,' said Albinia, disconcerted at his unexpected violence.

'Yes!' he exclaimed.  'I know you could patronize! but a step beyond, and it is all the same
with you as with the rest--you despise the jewel without the setting.'

'No,' said Albinia, 'so far from depreciating her, I want to convince you that it is an insult
to pursue her in this ridiculous underhand way.'

'You do me no justice,' said Gilbert loftily; 'you little understand what you are pleased to
make game of,' and with one of his sudden alternations, he dropped into a chair, calling himself
the most miserable fellow in the world, unpitied where he would gladly offer his life, and
his tenderest feelings derided, and he was so nearly ready to cry, that Albinia pitied him,
and said, 'I'll laugh no more if I can help it, Gibbie, but indeed you are too young for all
this misery to be real.  I don't mean that you are pretending, but only that this is your own
fancy.'

'Fancy!' said the boy solemnly.  'The happiness of my life is at stake.  She shall be the sharer
of all that is mine, the moment my property is in my own hands.'

'And do you think so high-minded a girl would listen to you, and take advantage of a fancy
in a boy so much younger, and of a different class?'

'It would be ecstasy to raise her, and lay all at her feet!'

'So it might, if it were worthy of her to accept it.  Gilbert, if you knew what love is, you
would never wish her to lower herself by encouraging you now.  She would be called artful--designing--'

'If she loved me--' he said disconsolately.

'I wish I could bring you to see how unlikely it is that a sensible, superior woman could really
attach herself to a mere lad.  An unprincipled person might pretend it for the sake of your
property--a silly one might like you because you are good-looking and well-mannered; but neither
would be Genevieve.'

'There is no use in saying any more,' he said, rising in offended dignity.

'I cannot let you go till you have given me your word never to obtrude your folly on Miss Durant
again.'

'Have you anything else to ask me?' cried Gilbert in a melodramatic tone.

'Yes, how would you like your father to know of this?  It is her secret, and I shall keep it,
unless you are so selfish as to continue the pursuit, and if so, I must have recourse to his
authority.'

'Oh!  Mrs. Kendal,' he said, actually weeping, 'you have always pitied me hitherto.'

'A man should not ask for pity,' said Albinia; 'but I am sorry for you, for she is an admirable
person, and I see you are very unhappy; but I will do all I can to help you, and you will get
over it, if you are reasonable.  Now understand me, I will and must protect Genevieve, and
I shall appeal to your father unless you promise me to desist from this persecution.'

The debate might have been endless, if Mr. Kendal had not been heard coming in.  'You promise?'
she said.  'Yes,' was the faint reply, in nervous terror of immediate reference to his father;
and they hurried different ways, trying to look unconcerned.

'Never mind,' said Albinia to herself.  'Was not Fred quite as bad about me, and look at him
now!  Yes, Gilbert must go to India, it will cure him, or if it should not, his affection will
be respectable, and worth consideration.  If he were but older, and this were the genuine article,
I would fight for him, but--'

And she sat down to write a loving note to Genevieve.  Her sanguine disposition made her trust
that all would blow over, but her experience of the cheerful buoyant Ferrars temperament was
no guide to the morbid Kendal disposition, Gilbert lay on the grass limp and doleful till the
fall of the dew, when he betook himself to a sofa; and in the morning turned up his eyes reproachfully
at her instead of eating his breakfast.

About eleven o'clock the Fairmead pony-carriage stopped at the door, containing Mr. Ferrars,
the Captain, Aunt Gertrude, and little Willie.  Albinia, her husband, and Lucy, were soon in
the drawing-room welcoming them; and Lucy fetched her little brother, who had been vociferous
for three days about Cousin Fred, the real soldier, but now, struck with awe at the mighty
personage, stood by his mamma, profoundly silent, and staring.  He was ungracious to his aunt,
and still more so to Willie, the latter of whom was despatched under Lucy's charge to find
Gilbert, but they came back unsuccessful.  Nor did Sophy make her appearance; she was reported
to be reading to grandmamma--Mrs. Meadows preferred to Miss Ferrars! there was more in this
than Albinia could make out, and she sat uneasily till she could exchange a few words with
Lucy.  'My dear, what is become of the other two?'

'I am sure I don't know what is the matter with them,' said Lucy. 'Gilbert is gone out--nobody
knows where--and when I told Sophy who was here, she said Captain Ferrars was an empty-headed
coxcomb, and she did not want to see him!'

'Oh! the geese!' murmured Albinia to herself, till the comical suspicion crossed her mind that
Gilbert was jealous, and that Sophy was afraid of falling a victim to the redoubtable lady killer.

Luncheon-time produced Sophy, grave and silent, but no Gilbert, and Mr. Kendal, receiving no
satisfactory account of his absence, said, 'Very strange,' and looked annoyed.

Captain Ferrars seemed to have expected to see his bright little partner of Thursday, for he
inquired for her, and Willie imparted the information that Fred had taken her for Sophy all
the time!  Fred laughed, and owned it, but asked if she were not really the governess?  'A
governess,' said Albinia, 'but not ours,' and an explanation followed, during which Sophy blushed
violently, and held up her head as if she had an iron bar in her neck.

'A pity,' said the Lancer, when he had heard who she was, and under his moustache he murmured
to Albinia, 'She is rather in Emily's style.'

'Oh, Fred,' thought Albinia, 'after all, it may be lucky that you aren't going to stay here!'

When Albinia was alone with her brother, she could not help saying, 'Maurice, you were right
to scold me; I reproached you with thinking life made up of predicaments.  I think mine is
made of blunders!'

'Ah! I saw you were harassed to-day,' said her brother kindly.

'Whenever one is happy, one does something wrong!'

'I guess--'

'You are generous not to say you warned me months ago.  Mind, it is no fault of hers, she is
behaving beautifully; but oh! the absurdity, and the worst of it is, I have promised not to
tell Edmund.'

'Then don't tell me.  You have a judgment quite good enough for use.'

'No, I have not.  I have only sense, and that only serves me for what other people ought to do.'

'Then ask Albinia what Mrs. Kendal ought to do.'

Gilbert came in soon after their departure, with an odd, dishevelled, abstracted look, and
muttering something inaudible about not knowing the time.  His depression absolutely courted
notice, but as a slight cough would at any time reduce him to despair, he obtained no particular
observation, except from Sophy, who made much of him, flushed at Genevieve's name, and looked
reproachful, that it was evident that she was his confidante.  Several times did Albinia try
to lead her to enter on the subject, but she set up her screen of silence.  It was disappointing,
for Albinia had believed better things of her sense, and hardly made allowance for the different
aspect of the love-sorrows of seventeen, viewed from fifteen or twenty-six--vexatious, too,
to be treated with dry reserve, and probably viewed as a rock in the course of true love; and
provoking to see perpetual tete-a-tetes that could hardly fail to fill Sophy's romantic head
with folly.

At the end of another week, Albinia received the following note:--

'Dear and most kind Madame,

'I would not trouble you again, but this is the third within four days.  I returned the two
former ones to himself, but he continues to write.  May I ask your permission to speak to my
relatives, for I feel that I ought to hide this no longer from them, and that we must take
some measures for ending it.  He does me the honour to wait near the house, and I never dare
go out, since--for I will confess all to you, madame--he met me by the river on Monday.  I
am beginning to fear that his assiduities have been observed, and I should be much obliged
if you would tell me how to act. Your kind perseverance in your goodness towards me is my greatest
comfort, and I hope that you will still continue it, for indeed it is most unwillingly that
I am a cause of perplexity and vexation to you. Entreating your pardon,

                        'Your most faithful and obliged servant,
                                             Genevieve Celeste Durant.'

What was to be done?  That broken pledge overpowered Albinia with a personal sense of shame,
and though it set her free to tell all to her husband, she shrank from provoking his stern
displeasure towards his son, and feared he might involve Genevieve in his anger.  She dashed
off a note to her poor little friend, telling her to do as she thought fit by her aunt and
grandmother, and then sought another interview with the reluctant Gilbert, to whom she returned
the letter, saying, 'Oh, Gilbert, at least I thought you would keep your word.'

'I think,' he said, angrily, trying for dignity, though bewrayed by his restless eyes and hands--'I
think it is too much to accuse me of--of--when I never said--What word did I ever give?'

'You promised never to persecute her again.'

'There may be two opinions as to what persecution means,' said Gilbert.

'I little thought of subterfuges.  I trusted you.'

'Mrs. Kendal! hear me,' he passionately cried.  'You knew not the misery you imposed.  To live
so near, and not a word, not a look!  I bore it as long as I could; but when Sophy would not
so much as take one message, human nature could not endure.'

'Well, if you cannot restrain yourself like a rational creature, some means must be taken to
free Miss Durant from a pursuit so injurious and disagreeable to her.'

'Ay,' he cried, 'you have filled her with your own prejudices, and inspired her with such a
dread of the hateful fences of society, that she does not dare to confess--'

'For shame, Gilbert, you are accusing her of acting a part.'

'No!' he exclaimed, 'all I say is, that she has been so thrust down and forced back, that she
cannot venture to avow her feelings even to herself!'

'Oh!' said Albinia, 'you conceited person!'

'Well!' cried the boy, so much nettled by her sarcasm that he did not know what he said, 'I
think--considering--considering our situations, I might be worth her consideration!'

'Who put that in your head?' asked Albinia.  'You are too much a gentleman for it to have come
there of its own accord.'

He blushed excessively, and retracted.  'No, no!  I did not mean that!  No, I only mean I have
no fair play--she will not even think. Oh! if I had but been born in the same station of life!'

Gilbert making entrechats with a little fiddle!  It had nearly overthrown her gravity, and
she made no direct answer, only saying, 'Well, Gilbert, these talks are useless.  I only thought
it right to give you notice that you have released me from my engagement not to make your father
aware of your folly.'

He went into an agony of entreaties, and proffers of promises, but no more treaties of secrecy
could he obtain, she would only say that she should not speak immediately, she should wait
and see how things turned out.  By which she meant, how soon it might be hoped that he would
be safe in the Calcutta bank, where she heartily wished him.

She sought a conference with Genevieve, and took her out walking in the meadows, for the poor
child really needed change and exercise, the fear of Gilbert had made her imprison herself
within the little garden, till she looked sallow and worn.  She said that her grandmother and
aunt had decided that she should go in a couple of days to the Convent at Hadminster, to remain
there till Mr. Gilbert went to India--the superior was an old friend of her aunt, and Genevieve
had often been there, and knew all the nuns.

Albinia was startled by this project.  'My dear, I had much rather send you to stay at my brother's,
or--anywhere.  Are you sure you are not running into temptation?'

'Not of that kind,' said Genevieve.  'The priest, Mr. O'Hara, is a good-natured old gentleman,
not in the least disposed to trouble himself about my conversion.'

'And the sisters?'

'Good old ladies, they have always been very kind to me, and petted me exceedingly when I was
a little child, but for the rest--' still seeing Albinia's anxious look--'Oh! they would not
think of it; I don't believe they could argue; they are not like the new-fashioned Roman Catholics
of whom you are thinking, madame.'

'And are there no enthusiastic young novices?'

'I should think no one would ever be a novice there,' said Genevieve.

'You seem to be bent on destroying all the romance of convents, Genevieve!'

'I never thought of anything romantic connected with the reverend mothers,' rejoined Genevieve,
'and yet when I recollect how they came to Hadminster, I think you will be interested.  You
know the family at Hadminster Hall in the last century were Roman Catholics, and a daughter
had professed at a convent in France.  At the time of the revolution, her brother, the esquire,
wrote to offer her an asylum at his house.  The day of her arrival was fixed--behold! a stage-coach
draws up to the door--black veils inside--black veils clustered on the roof--a black veil beside
the coachman, on the box--eighteen nuns alight, and the poor old infirm abbess is lifted out.
They had not even figured to themselves that the invitation could be to one without the whole
sisterhood!'

'And what did the esquire do with the good ladies?'

'He took them as a gift from Providence, he raised a subscription among his friends, and they
were lodged in the house at Hadminster, where something like a sisterhood had striven to exist
ever since the days of James II.'

'Are any of these sisters living still?'

'Only poor old Mother Therese, who was a little pensionnaire when they came, and now is blind,
and never quits her bed.  There are only seven sisters at present, and none of them are less
than five-and-forty.'

'And what shall you do there, Genevieve?'

'If they have any pupils from the town, perhaps I may help to teach them French.  And I shall
have plenty of time for my music.  Oh! madame, would you lend me a little of your music to copy?'

'With all my heart.  Any books?'

'Oh! that would be the greatest kindness of all!  And if it were not presuming too much, if
madame would let me take the pattern of that beautiful point lace that she sometimes wears
in the evening, then I should make myself welcome!'

'And put out your eyes, my dear!  But you may turn out my whole lace-drawer if you think anything
there will be a pleasure to the old ladies.'

'Ah! you do not guess the pleasure, madame.  Needlework and embroidery is their excitement
and delight.  They will ask me closely about all I have seen and done for months past, and
the history of the day at Fairmead will be a fete in itself.'

'Well! my dear, it is very right of you; and I do feel very thankful to you for treating the
matter thus.  Pray tell your grandmamma and aunt to pardon the sad revolution we have made
in their comfort, and that I hope it will soon be over!'

Genevieve took no leave.  Albinia sent her a goodly parcel of books and work-patterns, and
she returned an affectionate note; but did not attempt to see Lucy and Sophy.

The next Indian mail brought the expected letter, giving an exact account of the acquirements
and habits that would be required of Gilbert, with a promise of a home where he would be treated
as a son, and of admission to the firm after due probation.  The letter was so sensible and
affectionate, that Mr. Kendal congratulated his son upon such an advantageous outset in life.

Gilbert made slight reply, but the next morning Sophy sought Albinia out, and with some hesitation
began to tell her that Gilbert was very anxious that she would intercede with papa not to send
him to Calcutta.

'You now, Sophy!' cried Albinia.  'You who used to think nothing equal to India!'

'I wish it were I,' said Sophy, 'but you know--'

'Well,' said Albinia, coldly.

Sophy was too shy to begin on that tack, and dashed off on another.

'Oh, mamma, he is so wretched.  He can't bear to thwart papa, but he says it would break his
heart to go so far away, and that he knows it would kill him to be confined to a desk in that
climate.'

'You know papa thinks that nothing would confirm his health so much as a few years without
an English winter.'

'One's own instinct--' began Sophy; then breaking off, she added, 'Mamma, you never were for
the bank.'

'I used not to see the expediency, and I did not like the parting; but now I understand your
father's wishes, and the sort of allegiance he feels towards India, so that Gilbert's reluctance
will be a great mortification to him.'

'So it will,' said Sophy, mournfully, 'I am sure it is to me.  I always looked forward to Gilbert's
going to Talloon, and seeing the dear old bearer, and taking all my presents there, but you
see, of course, mamma, he cannot bear to go--'

'Sophy, dear,' said Albinia, 'you have been thinking me a very hard-hearted woman this last
month.  I have been longing to have it out.'

'Not hard-hearted,' said Sophy, looking down, 'only I had always thought you different from
other people.'

'And you considered that I was worldly, and not romantic enough.  Is that it, Sophy?'

'I thought you knew how to value her for herself, so good and so admirable--a lady in everything--with
such perfect manners.  I thought you would have been pleased and proud that Gilbert's choice
was so much nobler than beauty, or rank, or fashion could make it,' said Sophy, growing enthusiastic
as she went on.

'Well, my dear, perhaps I am.'

'But, mamma, you have done all you could to separate them: you have shut Genevieve up in a
convent, and you want to banish him.'

'It sounds very grand, and worthy of a cruel step-dame,' said Albinia; 'but, my dear, though
I do think Genevieve in herself an admirable creature, worthy of any one's love, what am I
to think of the way Gilbert has taken to show his admiration?'

'And is it not very hard,' cried Sophy, 'that even you, who own all her excellences, should
turn against him, and give in to all this miserable conventionality, that wants riches and
station, and trumpery worldly things, and crushes down true love in two young hearts?'

'Sophy dear, I am afraid the love is not proved to be true in the one heart, and I am sure
there is none in the other!'

'Mamma!  'Tis her self-command--'

'Nonsense!  His attentions are nothing but distress to her!  Sensible grown-up young women
are not apt to be flattered by importunity from silly boys.  Has he told you otherwise?'

'He thinks--he hopes, at least--and I am sure--it is all stifled by her sense of duty, and
fear of offending you, or appearing mercenary.'

'All delusion!' said Albinia; 'there's not a spark of consciousness about her!  I see you don't
like to believe it, but it is my great comfort.  Think how she would suffer if she did love
him!  Nay, think, before you are angry with me for not promoting it, how it would bring them
into trouble and disgrace with all the world, even if your father consented.  Have you once
thought how it would appear to him?'

'You can persuade papa to anything !'

'Sophy! you ought to know your father better than to say that!' cried Albinia, as if it had
been disrespect to him.

'Then you think he would never allow it!  You really think that such a creature as Genevieve,
as perfect a lady as ever existed, must always be a victim to these hateful rules about station.'

'No,' said Albinia, 'certainly not; but if she were in the very same rank, if all else were
suitable, Gilbert's age would make the pursuit ridiculous.'

'Only three years younger,' sighed Sophy.  'But if they were the same age?  Do you mean that
no one ever ought to marry, if they love ever so much, where the station is different?'

'No, but that they must not do so lightly, but try the love first to see whether it be worth
the sacrifice.  If an attachment last through many years of adverse circumstances, I think
the happiness of the people has been shown to depend on each other, but I don't think it safe
to disregard disparities till there has been some test that the love is the right stuff, or
else they may produce ill-temper, regrets, and unhappiness, all the rest of their lives.'

'If Gilbert went on for years, mamma?'

'I did not say that, Sophy.'

'Suppose,' continued the eager girl, 'he went out to Calcutta, and worked these five years,
and was made a partner.  Then he would be two-and-twenty, nobody could call him too young,
and he would come home, and ask papa's consent, and you--'

'I should call that constancy,' said Albinia.

'And he would take her out to Calcutta, and have no Drurys and Osborns to bother her!  Oh!
It would be beautiful!  I would watch over her while he was gone!  I'll go and tell him!'

'Stop, Sophy, not from me--that would never do.  I don't think papa would think twenty-two
such a great age--'

'But he would have loved her five years!' said Sophy.  'And you said yourself that would be
constancy!'

'True, but, Sophy, I have known a youth who sailed broken-hearted, and met a lady "just in
the style" of the former one, on board the steamer--'

Sophy made a gesture of impatient disdain, and repeated, 'Do you allow me to tell Gilbert that
this is the way?'

'Not from me.  I hold out no hope.  I don't believe Genevieve cares for him, and I don't know
whether his father would consent--' but seeing Sophy's look of disappointment, 'I see no harm
in your suggesting it, for it is his only chance with either of them, and would be the proof
that his affection was good for something.'

'And you think her worth it?'

'I think her worth anything in the world--the more for her behaviour in this matter.  I only
doubt if Gilbert have any conception how much she is worth.'

Away went Sophy in a glow that made her almost handsome, while Albinia, as usual, wondered
at her own imprudence.

At luncheon Sophy avoided her eye, and looked crestfallen, and when afterwards she gave a mute
inquiring address, shook her head impatiently.  It was plain that she had failed, and was too
much pained and shamed by his poorness of spirit to be able as yet to speak of it.

Next came Gilbert, who pursued Albinia to the morning-room to entreat her interference in his
behalf, appealing piteously to her kindness; but she was obdurate.  If any remonstrance were
offered to his father, it must be by himself.

Gilbert fell into a state of misery, threw himself about upon the chairs, and muttered in the
fretfulness of childish despair something about its being very hard, when he was owner of half
the town, to be sent into exile--it was like jealousy of his growing up and being master.

'Take care, Gilbert!' said Albinia, with a flash of her eye that he felt to his backbone.

'I don't mean it,' cried Gilbert, springing towards her in supplication.  'I've heard it said,
that's all, and was as angry as you, but when a fellow is beside himself with misery at being
driven away from all he loves--not a friend to help him--how can he keep from thinking all
sorts of things?'

'I wonder what people dare to say it!' cried Albinia wrathfully; but he did not heed, he was
picturing his own future misfortunes--toil-- climate--fevers--choleras--Thugs--coups de soleil--genuine
dread and repugnance working him up to positive agony.

'Gilbert,' said Albinia, 'this is trumpery self-torture!  You know this is a mere farrago that
you have conjured up.  Your father would neither thrust you into danger, nor compel you to
do anything to which you had a reasonable aversion.  Go and be a man about it in one way or
the other!  Either accept or refuse, but don't make these childish lamentations.  They are
cowardly!  I should be ashamed of little Maurice if he behaved so!'

'And you will not speak a word for me!'

'No!  Speak for yourself!' and she left the room.

Days passed on, till she began to think that, after all, Gilbert preferred Calcutta, cholera,
Thugs, and all, to facing his father; but at last, he must have taken heart from his extremity,
for Mr. Kendal said, with less vexation than she had anticipated, 'So our plans are overthrown.
Gilbert tells me he has an invincible dislike to Calcutta.  Had you any such idea?'

'Not till your cousin's letter arrived.  What did you say to him?'

'He was so much afraid of vexing me that I was obliged to encourage him to speak freely, and
I found that he had always had a strong distaste to and dread of India.  I told him I wished
he had made me aware of it sooner, and desired to know what profession he really preferred.
He spoke of Oxford and the Bar, and so I suppose it must be.  I do not wonder that he wishes
to follow his Traversham friends, and as they are a good set, I hope there may not be much
temptation. I see you are not satisfied, Albinia, yet your wishes were one of my motives.'

'Thank you--once I should,' said Albinia; 'but, Edmund, I see how wrong it was to have concealed
anything from you;' and thereupon she informed him of Gilbert's passion for Genevieve Durant,
which astonished him greatly, though he took it far less seriously than she had expected, and
was not displeased at having been kept in ignorance and spared the trouble of taking notice
of it, and thus giving it importance.

'It will pass off,' he said.  'She has too much sense and principle to encourage him, and if
you can get her out of Bayford for a few years he will be glad to have it forgotten.'

'Poor Genevieve!  She must break up her grandmother's home after all!'

'It will be a great advantage to her.  You used to say that it would be most desirable for
her to see more of the world.  Away from this place she might marry well.'

'Any one's son but yours,' said Albinia, smiling.

'The connexion would be worse here than anywhere else; but I was not thinking of any one in
our rank of life.  There are many superior men in trade with whom she might be very happy.'

'Poor child!' sighed Albinia.  'I cannot feel that it is fair that she should be banished for
Gilbert's faults; and I am sorry for the school; you cannot think how much the tone was improving.'

'If it could be done without hurting her feelings, I should gladly give her a year at some
superior finishing school, which might either qualify her for a governess, or enable her to
make this one more profitable.'

'Oh! thank you!' cried Albinia; 'yet I doubt.  However, her services would be quite equivalent
in any school to the lessons she wants. I'll write to Mrs. Elwood--' and she was absorbed in
the register-office in her brain, when Mr. Kendal continued--

'This is quite unexpected.  I could not have supposed the boy so foolish!  However, if you
please, I will speak to him, tell him that I was unaware of his folly, and insist on his giving
it up.'

'I should be very glad if you would.'

Gilbert was called, and the result was more satisfactory than Albinia thought that Genevieve
deserved.  His frenzy had tended to wear itself out, and he had been so dreadfully alarmed
about India and his father, that in his relief, gratitude, and fear of being sent out, he was
ready to promise anything.  Before his father he could go into no rhapsodies, and could only
be miserably confused.

'Personally,' said Mr. Kendal, 'it is creditable that you should be attracted by such estimable
qualities, but these are not the sole consideration.  Equality of station is almost as great
a requisite as these for producing comfort or respectability, and nothing but your youth and
ignorance could excuse your besetting any young woman with importunities which she had shown
to be disagreeable to her.'

There was no outcry of despair, only a melancholy muttering.  Then Mr. Kendal pronounced his
decree in terms more explicit than those in which Albinia had exacted the promise.  He said
nothing about persecution, nor was he unreasonable enough to command an instant immolation
of the passion; he only insisted that Gilbert should pay no marked attention, and attempt no
unsanctioned or underhand communication.  Unless he thought he had sufficient self-command
to abstain, his father must take 'further measures.'

As if fearing that this must mean 'Kendal and Kendal,' he raised his head, and with a deep
sigh undertook for his own self-command.  Mr. Kendal laid his hand on his shoulder with kind
pity, told him he was doing right, and that while he acted openly and obediently, he should
always meet with sympathy and consideration.

Two difficult points remained--the disposing of the young people. Gilbert was still over young
for the university, as well as very backward and ill-prepared, and the obstinate remains of
the cough made his father unwilling to send him from home.  And his presence made Genevieve's
absence necessary.

The place had begun to loom in the distance.  A former governess of Albinia's, who would have
done almost anything to please her, had lately been left a widow, and established herself in
a suburb of London, with a small party of pupils.  She had just begun to feel the need of an
additional teacher, and should gladly receive Genevieve, provided she fulfilled certain requisites,
of which, luckily, French pronunciation stood the foremost.  The terms were left to Albinia,
who could scarcely believe her good fortune, and went in haste to discuss the matter with the
Belmarches.

It almost consoled her for what she had been exceedingly ashamed to announce, the change of
purpose with regard to Gilbert, which was a sentence of banishment to the object of his folly.
Nothing pained her more than the great courtesy and kindness of the two old ladies to whom
it was such a cruel stroke, they evidently felt for her, and appeared to catch at Mrs. Elwood's
offer, and when Albinia proposed that her salary should be a share in the instructions of the
masters, agreed that this was the very thing they had felt it their duty to provide for her,
if they had been able to bring themselves to part with her.

'So,' said good Madame Belmarche, smiling sadly, 'you see it has been for the dear child's
real good that our weakness has been conquered.'

Genevieve was written to, and consented to everything, and when Mr. Kendal took Gilbert away
to visit an old friend, his wife called for Genevieve at the convent to bring her home.  Albinia
could not divest herself of some curiosity and excitement in driving up to the old-fashioned
red brick house, with two tall wings projecting towards the street, and the front door in the
centre between them, with steps down to it.  She had not been without hopes of a parlour with
a grille, or at least that a lay sister would open the door; but she saw nothing but a very
ordinary-looking old maid-servant, and close behind her was Genevieve, with her little box,
quite ready--no excuse for seeing anything or anybody else.

If Genevieve were sad at the proposal of leaving home and going among strangers, she took care
to hide all that could pain Mrs. Kendal, and her cheerful French spirit really enjoyed the
prospect of new scenes, and bounded with enterprise at the hope of a new life and fresh field
of exertion.

'Perhaps, after all,' she said, smiling, 'they may make of me something really useful and valuable,
and it will all be owing to you, dear madame.  Drawing and Italian!  When I can teach them,
I shall be able to make grandmamma easy for life!'

Genevieve skipped out of the carriage and into her aunt's arms, as if alive only to the present
delight of being at home again.  It was a contrast to Sophy's dolorous visage.  Poor Sophy!
she was living in a perpetual strife with the outward tokens of sulkiness, forcing herself
against the grain to make civil answers, and pretend to be interested when she felt wretched
and morose.  That Gilbert, after so many ravings, should have relinquished, from mere cowardice,
that one hope of earning Genevieve by honourable exertion, had absolutely lowered her trust
in the exalting power of love, and her sense of justice revolted against the decision that
visited the follies of the guilty upon the innocent.  She was yearning over her friend with
all her heart, pained at the separation, and longing fervently to make some demonstration,
but the greater her wish, the worse was her reserve.  She spent all her money upon a beautiful
book as a parting gift, and kept it beside her, missing occasion after occasion of presenting
it, and falling at each into a perfect agony behind that impalpable, yet impassable, barrier
of embarrassment.

It was not till the very last evening, when Genevieve had actually wished her good-bye and
left the house, that she grew desperate.  She hastily put on bonnet and cloak, and pursued
Genevieve up the street, overtaking her at last, and causing her to look round close to her
own door.

'My dear Miss Sophy,' cried Genevieve, 'what is the matter?  You are quite overcome.'

'This book--' said Sophy--it was all she could say.

'Love--yes,' said Genevieve.  'Admiration--no.'

'You shall not say that,' cried Sophy.  'I have found what is really dignified and disinterested,
and you must let me admire you, Jenny, it makes me comfortable.'

Genevieve smiled.  'I would not commit an egoism,' she said; but if the sense of admiration
do you good, I wish it had a worthier cause.'

'There's no one to admire but you,' said Sophy.  'I think it very unfair to send you away,
and though it is nobody's fault, I hate good sense and the way of the world!'

'Oh! do not talk so.  I am only overwhelmed with wonder at the goodness I have experienced.
If it had happened with any other family, oh! how differently I should have been judged!  Oh!
when I think of Mrs. Kendal, I am ready to weep with gratitude!'

'Yes, mamma is mamma, and not like any one else, but even she is obliged to be rational, and
do the injustice, whatever she feels,' said Sophy.

'Oh! not injustice--kindness!  I shall be able to earn more for grandmamma!'

'It is injustice!' said Sophy, 'not hers, perhaps, but of the world! It makes me so angry,
to think that you--you should never do anything but wear yourself out in drudging over tiresome
little children--'

'Little children are my brothers and sisters, as I never had any,' said Genevieve.  'Oh!  I
always loved them, they make a home wherever they are.  I am thankful that my vocation is among
them.'

In dread of a token from Gilbert, Genevieve would not notice it, but pursued, 'You must come
in and rest--you must have my aunt's salts.'

'No--no--' said Sophy, 'not there--' as Genevieve would have taken her to the little parlour,
but opening the door of the school-room, she sank breathless into a sitting position on the
carpetless boards.

Genevieve shut the door, and kneeling down, found Sophy's arms thrown round her, pressing her
almost to strangulation.

'Oh! I wanted to do it--I never could.  wont you have the book, Genevieve?  It is my keepsake--only
I could not give it because--'

'Is it your keepsake, indeed, dear Miss Sophy?' said Genevieve.  'Oh! if it is yours--how I
shall value it--but it is too beautiful--'

'Nothing is too beautiful for you, Genevieve,' said Sophy fervently.

'And it is your gift!  But I am frightened--it must have cost--!' began Genevieve, still a
little on her guard.  'Dear, dear Miss Sophy, forgive me if I do seem ungrateful, but indeed
I ought to ask--if--if it is all your own gift?'

'Mine? yes!' said Sophy, on the borders of offence.  'I know what you mean, Genevieve, but
you may trust me.  I would not take you in.'

Genevieve was blushing intensely, but taking courage she bestowed a shower of ardent embraces
and expressions of gratitude, mingled with excuses for her precaution.  'Oh! it was so very
kind in Miss Sophy,' she said; 'it would be such a comfort to remember, she had feared she
too was angry with her.'

'Angry? oh, no!' cried Sophy, her heart quite unlocked; 'but the more I loved and admired,
the more I could not speak.  And if they drive you to be a governess?  If you had a situation
like what we read of?'

'Perhaps I shall not,' said Genevieve, laughing.  'Every one has been so good to me hitherto!
And then I am not reduced from anything grander.  I shall always have the children, you know.'

'How I should hate them!' quoth Sophy.

'They are my pleasure.  Besides I have always thought it a blessing that my business in life,
though so humble, should be what may do direct good.  If only I do not set them a bad example,
or teach them any harm.'

'Not much danger of that,' said Sophy, smiling.  'Well, I can't believe it will be your lot
all your life.  You will find some one who will know how to love you.'

'No,' said Genevieve, 'I am not in a position for marriage--grandmamma has often told me so!'

'Things sometimes happen,' pursued Sophy.  'Mamma said if Gilbert had been older, or even if--if
he had been in earnest and steady enough to work for you in India, then it might--And surely
if Gilbert could care for you--people higher and deeper than he would like you better still.'

'Hush,' said Genevieve; 'they would only see the objections more strongly.  No, do not put
these things in my head.  I know that unless a teacher hold her business as her mission, and
put all other schemes out of her mind, she will work with an absent, distracted, half-hearted
attention, and fail of the task that the good God has committed to her.'

'Then you would never even wish--'

'It would be seeking pomps and vanities to wish,' said Genevieve; 'a school-room is a good
safe cloister, probably less dull than the convent.  If I wish at all, it will be that I may
be well shut up there, for I know that in spite of myself my manners are different from your
English ones.  I cannot make them otherwise, and that amuses people; and I cannot help liking
to please, and so I become excited.  I enjoy society so much that it is not safe for me!  So
don't be sorry, dear Sophy, it is a fit penance for the vanity that elated me too much that
evening at Fairmead!'

Mademoiselle Belmarche was here attracted by the voices.  Sophy started up from the ground,
made some unintelligible excuse, and while Mademoiselle was confounded with admiration at the
sight of the book, inflicted another boa-constrictor embrace, and hurried away.

CHAPTER XVII.

Planets hostile to the tender passion must have been in the ascendant, for the result of Captain
Ferrars's pursuit of his brother to Italy was the wholesome certainty that his own slender
portion was all he had to reckon upon.  Before returning to Canada, he came to Bayford to pour
out his troubles to his cousin, and to induce her, if he could induce no one else, to advise
his immediate marriage.  It was the first time he had been really engaged, and his affection
had not only stood three months' absence, but had so much elevated his shatter-brained though
frank and honest temperament, that Albinia conceived a high opinion of 'Emily,' and did her
best to persuade him to be patient, and wait for promotion.

Sophy likewise approved of him this time, perhaps because he was so opposite a specimen of
the genus lover from that presented by her brother.  Gilbert had not been able to help enjoying
himself while from home, but his spirits sank on his return; he lay about on the grass in doleful
dejection, studied little but L. E. L., lost appetite, and reproachfully fondled his cough;
but Albinia was now more compassionate than Sophy, whom she was obliged to rebuke for an unsisterly
disregard toward his woes.

'I can't help it,' said Sophy; 'I can't believe in him now!'

'Yes, you ought to believe that he is really unhappy, and be more gentle and considerate with him.'

'If it had been earnest, he would have sacrificed himself instead of Genevieve.'

'Ah! Sophy, some day you will learn to make excuses for other people, and not be so intolerant.'

'I never make excuses.'

'Except for Maurice,' said Albinia.  'If you viewed other people as you do him, your judgments
would be gentler.'

Sophy's conscientiousness, like her romance, was hard, high, and strict; but while she had
as little mercy on herself as on others, and while there were some soft spots in her adamantine
judgment, there was hope that these would spread, and, without lowering her tone, make her
more merciful.

She corresponded constantly with Genevieve, who seemed very happily placed; Mrs. Elwood was
delighted with her, and she with Mrs. Elwood; and her lively letters showed no signs of pining
for home.  Sophy felt as if it were a duty to her friend, to do what in her lay to prevent
the two old ladies from being dull, and spent an hour with them every week, not herself contributing
much to their amusement, but pleasing them by the attention, and hearing much that was very
curious of their old-world recollections.

Ever since that unlucky penny-club-day, when she had declared that she hated poor people, she
had been let alone on that subject; and though principle had made her use her needle in their
behalf, shyness and reserve had kept her back from all intercourse with them; but in her wish
to compensate for Genevieve's absence, she volunteered to take charge of her vacant Sunday-school
class, and obtained leave to have the girls at home on the afternoons for an hour and a half.
This was enough for one who worked as she did, making a conscience of every word, and toiling
to prepare her lessons, writing out her questions beforehand, and begging for advice upon them.

'My dear,' said Albinia, 'you must alter this--you see this question does not grow out of the
last answer.'

'Yes,' said Sophy, 'that must have been what puzzled them last Sunday: they want connexion.'

'Nothing like logic to teach one to be simple,' said Albinia.

'I can't see the use of all this trouble,' put in Lucy.  'Why can't you ask them just what
comes into your head, as I always do?'

'Suppose mistakes came into my head.'

'Oh! they would not find it out if they did!  I declare!--what's this--Persian?  Are you going
to teach them Persian?'

'No; it is Greek.  You see it is a piece of a Psalm, a quotation rather different in the New
Testament.  I wrote it down to ask papa what it is in Hebrew.'

'By-the-bye, Sophy,' continued Lucy, 'how could you let Susan Price come to church with lace
sleeves--absolute lace sleeves!'

'Had she?'

'There--you never see anything!  Mamma, would not it be more sensible to keep their dress in
order, than to go poking into Hebrew, which can't be of use to any one?'

There was more reason than might appear in what Lucy said: the girls of her class were more
orderly, and fonder of her than Sophy's of the grave young lady whose earnestness oppressed
them, and whose shyness looked dislike and pride.  As to finding fault with their dress, she
privately told Albinia that she could not commit such a discourtesy, and was answered that
no one but Mrs. Dusautoy need interfere.

'I will go and ask Mrs. Dusautoy what she wishes,' said Albinia.  'I should be glad if she
would modify Lucy's sumptuary laws.  To fall foul of every trifle only makes the girls think
of their, dress.'

Albinia found Mrs. Dusautoy busied in writing notes on mourning paper.

'Here is a note I had written to you,' she said.  'I am sending over to Hadminster to see if
any of the curates can take the services to-morrow.'

Albinia looked at the note while Mrs. Dusautoy wrote on hurriedly. She read that there could
be no daily services at present, the Vicar having been summoned to Paris by the sudden death
of Mrs. Cavendish Dusautoy.  As the image of a well-endowed widow, always trying to force her
way into higher society, arose before Albinia, she could hardly wait till the letter was despatched,
to break out in amazement,

'Was she a relation of yours?  Even the name never made me think of it!'

'It is a pity she cannot have the gratification of hearing it, poor woman,' said Mrs. Dusautoy,
'but it is a fact that she did poor George Dusautoy the honour to marry him.'

'Mr. Dusautoy's brother?'

'Ay--he was a young surgeon, just set up in practice, exactly like John--nay, some people thought
him still finer-looking.  She was a Miss Greenaway Cavendish, a stock-broker's heiress of a
certain age.'

'Oh!' expressively cried Albinia.

'You may say so,' returned Mrs. Dusautoy.  'She made him put away his profession, and set up
for taste and elegant idleness.'

'And he submitted?'

'There was a great deal of the meek giant in him, and he believed implicitly in the honour
she had done him.  It would have been very touching, if it had not been so provoking, to see
how patiently and humbly that fine young man gave up all that would have made him happy, to
bend to her caprices and pretensions.'

'Did you ever see them together?'

'No, I never saw her at all, and him only once.  I never knew John really savage but once,
and that was at her not letting him come to our wedding; but she did give him leave of absence
for one fortnight, when we were at Lauriston.  How happy the brothers were!  It did one good
to hear their great voices about the house; and they were like boys on a stolen frolic, when
John took him to prescribe for some of our poor people.  He used to talk of bringing us his
little son--the one pleasure of his life--but he never was allowed.  Oh, how I used to long
to stir up a mutiny!' cried Mrs. Dusautoy, quite unknowing that she ruled her own lion with
a leash of silk.  'If she had appreciated him, it would have been bearable; but to her he was
no more than the handsome young doctor, whom she had made a gentleman, and not a very good
piece of work of it either!  Little she recked of the great loving heart that had thrown itself
away on her, and the patience that bore with her; and she tried to hinder all the liberal bountiful
actions that were all he cared to do with his means!  I wish the boy may remember him!'

'How long has he been dead?'

'These ten years.  He was drowned in a lake storm in Switzerland--people clung to him, and
he could not swim.  It was John's one great grief--he cannot mention him even now.  And really,'
she added, smiling, 'I do believe he has brought himself to fancy it was a very happy marriage.
She has always been very civil; but she has been chiefly abroad, and never would take his advice
about sending her boy to school.'

'What becomes of him now?'

'He is our charge.  She was on the way home from Italy, when she was taken ill at Paris, and
died at the end of the week.'

'How old is he?'

'About nineteen, I fancy.  He must have had an odd sort of education; but if he is a nice lad,
it will be a great pleasure to John to have something young about the house.'

'I was thinking that Mr. Dusautoy hardly wanted more cares.'

'So have I,' said her friend, smiling, 'and I have been laying a plot against him.  You see,
he is as strong as a lion, and never yet was too tired to sleep; but it is rather a tempting
of Providence to keep 3589 people and fourteen services in a week resting upon one man!'

'Exactly what his churchwarden has preached to him.'

'Moreover, he cannot be in two places at once, let alone half-a-dozen. Now, my Lancashire people
have written in quest of a title for holy orders for a young man who has just gone through
Cambridge with great credit, and it strikes me that he might at once help John, and cram Master
Algernon.'

'And Gilbert!' cried Albinia.  'Oh, if you will import a tutor for Gilbert, we shall be for
ever beholden to you!'

'I had thought of him.  I have no doubt that he is much better taught than Algernon; but I
am not afraid of this poor fellow bringing home bad habits, and they will be good companions.
I reckon upon you and Mr. Kendal as great auxiliaries, and I don't think John will be able
to withstand our united forces.'

On the way home, on emerging from the alley, Albinia encountered Gilbert, just parting with
another youth, who walked off quickly on the Tremblam road, while she inquired who it was.

'That?' said Gilbert; 'oh! that was young Tritton.  He has been away learning farming in Scotland.
We speak when we meet, for old acquaintance sake and that.'

The Bayford mind was diverted from the romance of Genevieve, by the enormous fortune of the
Vicar's nephew, whose capital was in their mouths and imaginations swelled into his yearly
income.  Swarms of cards of inquiry were left at the vicarage; and Mrs. Meadows and Lucy enjoyed
the reflected dignity of being able to say that Mrs. Kendal was continually there.  And so
she was, for Mrs. Dusautoy was drooping, though more in body than visibly in spirit, and needed
both companionship and assistance in supporting the charge left by her absent Atlas.

He was not gone a moment longer than necessary, and took her by surprise at last, while Albinia
and Sophy were sitting on the lawn with her, when she welcomed the nephew and the Vicar, holding
out a hand to each, and thanked them for taking care of 'Fanny.'  'Here, Algernon,' he continued,
'here are two of our best friends, Mrs. Kendal and Miss Sophy.'

There was a stiff bow from a stiff altitude.  The youth was on the gigantic Dusautoy scale,
looking taller even than his uncle, from his manner of holding himself with his chin somewhat
elevated.  He had a good ruddy sun-burnt complexion, shining brown hair, and regular features;
and Albinia could respond heartily to the good Vicar's exclamation, as he followed her down
to the gate for the sake of saying,

'Well-grown lad, isn't that?  And a very good-hearted fellow too, poor boy--the very picture
of his dear father.  Well, and how has Fanny been?'

He stayed to be reassured that his return was all his Fanny wanted, and then hurried back to
her, while Albinia and Sophy pursued their way down the hill.

'News for grandmamma.  We must give her a particular description of the hero.'

'How ugly he thought me!' said Sophy, quaintly.

'My dear, I believe that is the first thing you think of when you meet a stranger!'

'I saw it this time,' returned Sophy.  'His chin went up in the air at once.  He set me down
for Mrs. Kendal, and you for Miss Sophy.'

'Nonsense,' said Albinia, for the inveterate youthfulness of her bright complexion and sunny
hair was almost a sore subject with her. 'Your always fancying that every one is disgusted
with you, is as silly as if you imagined yourself transcendently beautiful.  It is mere self-occupation,
and helps to make you blunt and shy.'

'Mamma,' said Sophy, 'tell me one thing.  Did you ever think yourself pretty?'

'I have thought myself looking so, under favourable circumstances, but that's all.  You are
as far from ugliness as I am, and have as little need to think of it.  As far as features go,
there's the making of a much handsomer woman in you than in me.'

Sophy laughed.  A certain yearning for personal beauty was a curious part of her character,
and she would have been ashamed to own the pleasure those few words had given her, or how much
serenity and forbearance they were worth; and her good-humour was put to the proof that evening,
for grandmamma had a tea-party, bent on extracting the full description of the great Algernon
Greenaway Cavendish Dusautoy, Esquire.  Lucy's first sight was less at her ease.  Elizabeth
Osborn, with whom she kept up a fitful intimacy, summoned her mysteriously into her garden,
to show her a peep-hole through a little dusty window in the tool-house, whence could be descried
the vicarage garden, and Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy, as, with a cigar in his mouth, and his hands
in his pockets,

    'Stately stept he east the wa', and stately stept he west.'

Lucy was so much amused, that she could not help reporting it at home, where Gilbert forgot
his sorrows, in building up a mischievous romance in honour of the hole in the 'sweet and lovely
wall.'

But the parents' feud did not seem likely to hold out.  A hundred thousand pounds on one side
of the wall, and three single daughters on the other, Mrs. Osborn was not the woman to trust
to the 'wall's hole;' and so Mr. Dusautoy's enemy laid down her colours; and he was too kind-hearted
to trace her sudden politeness to the source.

Mr. Dusautoy acceded to the scheme devised by his wife, and measures were at once taken for
engaging the curate.  When Albinia went to talk the matter over at the parsonage, Lucy accompanied
her; but the object of her curiosity was not in the room; and when she had heard that he was
fond of drawing, and that his horses were to be kept at the King's Head stables, the conversation
drifted away, and she grew restless, and begged Mrs. Dusautoy to allow her to replenish the
faded bouquets on the table.  No sooner was she in the garden, than Mrs. Dusautoy put on an
arch look, and lowering her voice, said,

'Oh! it is such fun!  He does despise us so immensely.'

'Despise--you?'

'He is a good, boy, faithful to his training.  Now his poor mother's axioms were, that the
English are vulgar, country English more vulgar, Fanny Dusautoy the most vulgar!  I wish we
always as heartily accepted what we are taught.'

'He must be intolerable.'

'No, he is very condescending and patronizing to the savages.  He really is fond of his uncle;
and John is so much hurt it I notice his peculiarities, that I have been dying to have my laugh
out.'

'Can Mr. Dusautoy bear with pretension?'

'It is not pretension, only calm faith in the lessons of his youth. Look,' she added, becoming
less personal at Lucy's re-entrance, and pointing to a small highly-varnished oil-painting
of a red terra cotta vase, holding a rose, a rhododendron before it, and half a water-melon
grinning behind, newly severed by a knife.

'Is that what people bring home from Italy now-a-days?' said Albinia.

'That is an original production.'

'Did Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy do that?' cried Lucy.

'Genre is his style,' was the reply.  'His mother was resolved he should be an amateur, and
I give his master great credit.'

'Especially for that not being a Madonna,' said Albinia.  'I congratulate you on his having
so safe an amusement.'

'Yes; it disposes of him and of the spare room.  He cannot exist without an atelier.'

Just then the Vicar entered.

'Ah! Algernon's picture,' began he, who had never been known to look at one, except the fat
cattle in the Illustrated News.  'What do you think of it?  Has he not made a good hand of
the pitcher?'

Albinia gratified him by owning that the pitcher was round; and Lucy was in perfect rapture
at the 'dear little spots' in the rhododendron.

'A poor way of spending a lad's time,' said the uncle; 'but it is better than nothing; and
I call the knife very good: I declare you might take it up,' and he squeezed up his eyes to
enhance the illusion.

A slow and wide opening of the door admitted the lofty presence of Algernon Cavendish Dusautoy,
with another small picture in his hand. Becoming aware of the visitors, he saluted them with
a dignified movement of his head, and erecting his chin, gazed at them over it.

'So you have brought us another picture, Algernon,' said his uncle. 'Mrs. Kendal has just been
admiring your red jar.'

'Have you a taste for art?' demanded Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy, turning to her with magnificent
suavity.

'I used to be very fond of drawing.'

'Genre is my style,' he pursued, almost overthrowing her gravity by the original of his aunt's
imitation.  'I took lessons of old Barbouille--excellent master.  Truth and nature, those were
his maxims; and from the moment I heard them, I said, "This is my man." We used positively
to live in the Borghese.  There!' as he walked backwards, after adjusting his production in
the best light.

'A snipe,' said Albinia.

'A snipe that I killed in the Pontine marshes.'

'There is very good shooting about Anxur,' said Albinia.

'You have been at Rome?'  He permitted himself a little animation at discovering any one within
the pale of civilization.

'For one fortnight in the course of a galloping tour with my two brothers,' said Albinia. 
'All the Continent in one long vacation!'

'That was much to be regretted.  It is my maxim to go through every museum thoroughly.'

'I can't regret,' said Albinia.  'I should be very sorry to give up my bright indistinct haze
of glorious memories, though I was too young to appreciate all I saw.'

'For my part, I have grown up among works of art.  My whole existence has been moulded on them,
and I feel an inexpressible void without them.  I shall be most happy to introduce you into
my atelier, and show you my notes on the various Musees.  I preserved them merely as a trifling
memorial; but many connoisseurs have told me that I ought to print them as a Catalogue raisonnee,
for private circulation, of course.  I should be sorry to interfere with Murray, but on the
whole I decided otherwise: I should be so much bored with applications.'

Mrs. Dusautoy's wicked glance had so nearly demolished the restraint on her friend's dimples,
that she turned her back on her, and commended the finish of a solitary downy feather that
lay detached beside the bird.

'My maxim is truth to nature, at any cost of pains,' said the youth, not exactly gratified,
for homage was his native element, but graciously proceeding to point out the merits of the
composition.

Albinia's composure could endure no more, and she took her leave, Mr. Dusautoy coming down
the hill with her to repeat, and this time somewhat wistfully,

'A fine lad, is he not, poor fellow?'

With perfect sincerity, she could praise his good looks.

'He has had a quantity of sad stuff thrust on him by the people who have been about his poor
mother,' said Mr. Dusautoy.  'She could never bear to part with him, and no wonder, poor thing;
and she must have let a very odd sort of people get about her abroad--they've flattered that
poor lad to the top of his bent, you see, but he's a very good boy for all that, very warm-hearted.'

'He must be very amiable for his mother to have been able to manage him all this while.'

'Just what I say!' cried the Vicar, his honest face clearing.  'Many youths would have run
into all that is bad, brought up in that way; but only consider what disadvantages he has had!
When we get him to see his real standing a little better--I say, could not you let us have
your young people to come up this evening, have a little music, and make it lively?  I suppose
Fanny and I are growing old, though I never thought so before.  Will you come, Lucy, there's
a good girl, and bring your brother and sister?  The lads must be capital friends.'

Lucy promised with sparkling eyes, and the Vicar strode off, saying he should depend on the three.

Gilbert 'supposed he was in for it,' but 'did not see the use of it,' he was sick of the name
of 'that polysyllable,' and 'should see enough of him when Mr. Hope came, worse luck.'

The result of the evening was, that Lacy was enraptured at the discovery that this most accomplished
hero sang Italian songs to the loveliest guitar in the world, and was very much offended with
Sophy for wishing to know whether mamma really thought him so very clever.

Immediately after the Ordination arrived Mr. Hope, a very youthful, small, and delicate-looking
man, whom Mr. Dusautoy could have lifted as easily as his own Fanny, with short sight, timid
nature, scholarly habits, weak nerves, and an inaudible voice.

Of great intellect, having read deeply, and reading still more deeply, he had the utmost dread
of ladies, and not even his countrywoman, Mrs. Dusautoy, could draw him out.  He threw his
whole soul into the work, winning the hearts of the infant-school and the old women, but discomfiting
the congregation by the weakness of his voice, and the length and depth of his sermons.  There
was one in especial which very few heard, and no one entered into except Sophy, who held an
hour's argument over it with her father, till they arrived at such lengthy names of heresies,
that poor grandmamma asked if it were right to talk Persian on a Sunday evening.

He conscientiously tutored his two pupils, but there was no common ground between him and them.
Excepting his extra intellect, there was no boyhood in him.  A town-bred scholar, a straight
constitutional upon a clean road was his wildest dream of exercise; he had never mounted a
horse, did not know a chicken from a partridge, except on the table, was too short-sighted
for pictures, and esteemed no music except Gregorians.

The two youths were far more alive to his deficiencies than to his endowments: Algernon contemned
him for being a book-seller's son, with nothing to live on but his fellowship and curacy, and
Gilbert looked down on his ignorance of every matter of common life, and excessive bashfulness.
Mr. Dusautoy would have had less satisfaction in the growing intimacy between the lads, had
he known that it had been cemented by inveigling poor Mr. Hope into a marsh in search of cotton-grass,
which, at Gilbert's instigation, Algernon avouched to be a new sort of Indian corn, grown in
Italy for feeding silkworms.

An intimacy there was, rather from constant intercourse than from positive liking.  Gilbert
saw through and disdained young Dusautoy's dulness and self-consequence; but good-natured,
kindly, and unoccupied, he had no objection to associate with him, showing him English ways,
trying to hinder him from needlessly exposing himself, and secretly amused with his pretension.
Algernon, with his fine horses, expensive appointments, and lofty air, was neither a discreditable
nor unpleasing companion.  Mr. Kendal had given his son a horse, which, without costing the
guineas that Algernon had 'refused' for each of his steeds, was a very respectable-looking
animal, and the two young gentlemen, starting on their daily ride, were a grand spectacle for
more than little Maurice.

Gilbert had suffered some eclipse.  Once he had been the grand parti, the only indisputable
gentleman, but now Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy had entirely surpassed him both in self-assertion
and in the grounds for it.  His incipient dandyisms faded into insignificance beside the splendours
of the heir of thousands; and he, who among all his faults had never numbered conceit or forwardness,
had little chance beside such an implicit believer in his own greatness.

Nor was Bayford likely to diminish that faith.  The non-adorers might be easily enumerated--his
uncle and aunt, his tutor, his groom, Mr. and Mrs. Kendal, Gilbert and Sophy; the rest all
believed in him as thoroughly as he did in himself.  His wealth was undoubted, his accomplishments
were rated at his own advertisement, and his magnanimous condescension was esteemed at full
value.  Really handsome, good-natured and sociable, he delighted to instruct his worshippers
by his maxims, and to bend graciously to their homage. The young ladies had but one cynosure!
Few eyes were there that did not pursue his every movement, few hearts that did not bound at
his approach, few tongues that did not chronicle his daily comings and goings.

'It would save much trouble,' said Albinia, 'if a court circular could be put into the Bayford
paper.'

The Kendals were the only persons whom Algernon regarded as in any way on a footing with him.
Finding that the lady was a Ferrars, and had been in Italy, he regarded her as fit company,
and whenever they met, favoured her with the chief and choicest of his maxims, little knowing
how she and his aunt presumed to discuss him in private.

Without being ill-disposed, he had been exceedingly ill taught; his mother, the child of a
grasping vulgar father, had little religious impression, and that little had not been fostered
by the lax habits of a self-expatriated Englishwoman, and very soon after his arrival at Bayford
his disregard of ordinary English proprieties had made itself apparent.  On the first Sunday
he went to church in the morning, but spent the evening in pacing the garden with a cigar;
and on the afternoon of that day week his aunt was startled by the sound of horse's hoofs on
the road.  Mr. Dusautoy was at school, and she started up, met the young gentleman, and asked
him what strange mistake could have been made.  He made her a slight bow, and loftily said
he was always accustomed to ride at that hour!  'But not on Sunday!' she exclaimed.  He was
not aware of any objection.  She told him his uncle would be much displeased, he replied politely
that he would account to his uncle for his conduct, begged her pardon, but he could not keep
his horse waiting.

Mrs. Dusautoy went back, fairly cried at the thought of her husband's vexation, and the scandal
to the whole town.

The Vicar was, of course, intensely annoyed, though he still could make excuses for the poor
boy, and laid all to the score of ignorance and foreign education.  He made Algernon clearly
understand that the Sunday ride must not be repeated.  Algernon mumbled something about compromising
his uncle and offending English prejudices, by which he reserved to himself the belief that
he yielded out of magnanimity, not because he could not help it; but he could not forgive his
aunt for her peremptory opposition; he became unpleasantly sullen and morose as regularly as
the Sunday came round, and revenged himself by pacing the verandah with his cigar, or practising
anything but sacred music on his key-bugle in his painting-room.

The youth was really fond of his uncle, but he had imbibed all his mother's contempt for her
sister-in-law.  Used to be wheedled by an idolizing mother, and to reign over her court of
parasites, he had no notion of obeying, and a direct command or opposition roused his sullen
temper of passive resistance.  When he found 'that little nobody of a Mrs. John Dusautoy' so
far from being a flatterer, or an adorer of his perfections, inclined to laugh at him, and
bent on keeping him in order, all the enmity of which he was capable arose in his mind, and
though in general good-natured and not aggressive, he had a decided pleasure in doing what
she disapproved, and thus asserting the dignity of a Greenaway Cavendish Dusautoy.

The atelier was a happy invention.  Certainly wearisome noises, and an aroma of Havannahs would
now and then proceed therefrom, but he was employed there the chief part of the day, and fortunately
his pictures were of small size, and took an infinite quantity of labour, so that they could
not speedily outrun all the Vicarage walls.

He favoured the University of Oxford by going up with Gilbert for matriculation, when, to the
surprise of Mr. Hope, he was not plucked. They were to begin their residence at the Easter
term.  Mrs. Dusautoy did not confess even to Albinia how much she looked forward to Easter.

In early spring, a sudden and short illness took away Madame Belmarche's brave spirit to its
rest, after sixty years of exile and poverty, cheerfully borne.

There had been no time to summon Genevieve, and her aunt would not send for her, but decided
on breaking up the school, which could no longer be carried on, and going to live in the Hadminster
convent. And thus, as Mr. Kendal hoped, all danger of renewed intercourse between his son and
Genevieve ended.  Gilbert looked pale and wretched, and Sophy hoped it was with compunction
at having banished Genevieve at such a moment, but not a word was said--and that page of early
romance was turned!

CHAPTER XVIII.

It was a beautiful July afternoon, the air musical with midsummer hum, the flowers basking
in the sunshine, the turf cool and green in the shade, and the breeze redolent of indescribable
freshness and sweetness compounded of all fragrant odours, the present legacy of a past day's
shower.  Like the flowers themselves, Albinia was feeling the delicious repose of refreshed
nature, as in her pretty pink muslin, her white drapery folded round her, and her bright hair
unbonnetted, she sat reclining in a low garden chair, at the door of the conservatory, a little
pale, a little weak, but with a sweet happy languor, a soft tender bloom.

There was a step in the conservatory, and before she could turn round, her brother Maurice
bent over her, and kissed her.

'Maurice! you have come after all!'

'Yes, the school inspection is put off.  How are you?' as he sat down on the grass by her side.

'Oh, quite well!  What a delicious afternoon we shall have!  Edmund will be at home directly.
Mrs. Meadows has absolutely let Gilbert take her to drink tea at the Drurys!  Only I am sorry
Sophy should miss you, for she was so good about going, because Lucy wanted to do something
to her fernery.  Of course you are come for Sunday, and the christening?'

'Yes,--that is, to throw myself on Dusautoy's mercy.'

'We will send Mr. Hope to Fairmead,' said Albinia, 'and see whether Winifred can make him speak.
We can't spare the Vicar, for he is our godfather, and you must christen the little maiden.'

'I thought the three elder ones were to be sponsors.'

'Gilbert is shy,' said Albinia, 'afraid of the responsibility, and perhaps he is almost too
near, the very next to ourselves.  His father would have preferred Mr. Dusautoy from the first,
and only yielded to my wish.  I wish you had come two minutes sooner, she was being paraded
under that wall, but now she is gone in asleep.'

'Her father writes grand things of her.'

'Does he?' said Albinia, colouring and smiling at what could not be heard too often; 'he is
tolerably satisfied with the young woman! And he thinks her like Edmund, and so she must be,
for she is just like him.  She will have such beautiful eyes.  It is very good of her to take
after him, since Maurice won't!'

'And she is to be another Albinia.'

'I represented the confusion, and how I always meant my daughter to be Winifred, but there's
no doing anything with him!  It is only to be a second name.  A. W. K.!  Think if she should
marry a Mr. Ward!'

'No, she would not be awkward, if she were so a-warded.'

'It wont spell, Maurice,' cried Albinia, laughing as their nonsense, as usual, rose to the
surface, 'but how is Winifred?'

'As well as could be hoped under the affliction of not being able to come and keep you in order.'

'She fancied me according to the former pattern,' said Albinia, smiling, 'I could have shown
her a better specimen, not that it was any merit, for there were no worries, and Edmund was
so happy, that it was pleasure enough to watch him.'

'I was coming every day to judge for myself, but I thought things could not be very bad, while
he wrote such flourishing accounts.'

'No, there were no more ponds!' said Albinia, 'and grandmamma happily was quite well, cured,
I believe, by the excitement.  Lucy took care of her, and Sophy read to me--how we have enjoyed
those readings! Oh! and Aunt Gertrude has found a delightful situation for Genevieve, a barrister's
family, with lots of little children--eighty pounds a year, and quite ready to value her, so
she is off my mind.'

'Maurice, boy! come here,' she called, as she caught sight of a creature prancing astride on
one stick, and waving another.  On perceiving a visitor, the urchin came careering up, bouncing
full tilt upon her, and clasping her round with both his stalwart arms. 'Gently, gently, boy,'
she said, bending down, and looking with proud delight at her brother, as she held between
her hands a face much like her own, as fair and freshly tinted, but with a peculiar squareness
of contour, large blue eyes, with dark fringes, brimming over with mischief and fun, a bold,
broad brow, and thick, light curls.  There was a spring and vigour as of perpetual irrepressible
life about the whole being, and the moment he had accepted his uncle's kiss, he poised his
lance, and exclaimed, 'You are Bonaparte, I'm the Duke!'

'Indeed,' said Mr. Ferrars, at once seizing a wand, and bestriding the nearest bench.  Two
or three charges rendered the boy so uproarious, that presently he was ordered off, and to
use the old apple tree as Bonaparte.

'What a stout fellow!' said Mr. Ferrars, as he went off at a plunging gallop, 'I should have
taken him for at least five years old!'

'So he might be,' said Albinia, 'for strength and spirit--he is utterly fearless, and never
cries, much as he knocks himself about! He will do anything but learn.  The rogue! he once
knew all his letters, but no sooner did he find they were the work of life, than he forgot
every one, and was never so obstreperous as when called upon to say them.  I gave up the point,
but I foresee some fine scenes.'

'His minding no one but you is an old story.  I hope at least the exception continues.'

'I have avoided testing it.  I want all my forces for a decisive battle.  I never heard of
such a masterful imp,' she continued, with much more exultation than anxiety, 'his sisters
have no chance with him, he rules them like a young Turk.  There's the pony!  Sophy will let
him have it as a right, and it is the work of my life to see that she is not defrauded of her
rides.'

'You don't mean that that child rides anything but a stick.'

'One would think he had been born in boots and spurs.  Legitimately he only rides with some
one leading the pony, but I have my suspicions that by some preternatural means he has been
on the pony's back, and round the yard alone, and that papa prudentially concealed it from me!'

'I confess I should not like it,' said her brother gravely.

'Oh! I don't mind that kind of thing.  A real boy can't be hurt, and I don't care how wild
he runs, so long as he is obedient and truthful.  And true I think he is to the backbone, and
I know he is reverend.  We had such a disturbance because he would not say his prayers.'

'Proof positive!'

'Yes, it was,' said Albinia.  'It did not seem to him orthodox without me, and when he was
let into my room again, it was the prettiest sight!  When he had been told of his little sister,
all he said was that he did not want little girls--girls were stupid--'

'Ah! that came of your premature introduction to my Albinia,'

'Not at all.  It was partly as William's own nephew, and partly because pleasure was expected
from him.  But when he actually saw the little thing, that sturdy face grew so very soft and
sweet, and when we told him he was her protector, he put both his hands tight together, and
said, "I'll be so good!"  When he is with her, another child seems to shine out under the bluff
pickle he generally is--he walks so quietly, and thinks it such an honour to touch her.'

'She will be his best tutor,' said Maurice, smiling, but breaking off--

A sudden shriek of deadly terror rang out over the garden from the river!  A second or two
sufficed to show them Lucy at the other end of the foot-bridge, that led across the canal to
the towing-path. She did not look round, till Albinia, clutching her, demanded, 'Where is he?'

Unable to speak, Lucy pointed down the towing-path, along which a horse was seen rushing wildly--a
figure pursuing it.  'It was hitched up here--he must have scrambled up by the gate!  Oh! mamma!
mamma! He has run after him, but oh!'

Mr. Ferrars gave Lucy's arm a squeeze, a hint not to augment the horror.  Something he said
of 'Let me--and you had better--' but Albinia heard nothing, and was only bent on pressing forward.

The canal and path took a wide sweep round the meadow, and the horse was still in sight, galloping
at full speed, with a small heap on its back, as they trusted, but the rapid motion, and their
eyes strained and misty with alarm, caused an agony of uncertainty.

Albinia pointed across the meadows in anguish at not being able to make herself understood,
and hoarsely said, 'The gate!'

Mr. Ferrars caught her meaning, and the next moment had leaped over the gutter, and splashed
into the water meadow, but in utter hopelessness of being beforehand with the runaway steed!
How could that gate be other than fatal?  The horse was nearing it--the pursuer far behind--Mr.
Ferrars not half way over the fields.

There was a loud cry from Lucy.--'He is caught! caught!'

A loud shout came back, was caught up, and sent on by both the pursuers, 'All right!'

Albinia had stood in an almost annihilation of conscious feeling. Even when her brother strode
back to her repeating 'All safe, thanks be to God,' she neither spoke nor relaxed that intensity
of watching. A few seconds more, and she sprang forward again as the horse was led up by a
young man at his side; and on his back, laughing and chattering, sat Master Maurice.  Algernon
Dusautoy strode a few steps behind, somewhat aggrieved, but that no one saw.

The elder Maurice lifted down the younger one, who, as he was clasped by his mother, exclaimed,
'Oh! mamma, Bamfylde went so fast!  I am to ride home again!  He said so--he's my cousin!'

Albinia scarcely heard; her brother however had turned to thank the stranger for her, and exclaimed,
'I should say you were an O'More.'

'I'm Ulick, from the Loughside Lodge,' was the answer.  'Is cousin Winifred here?'

'No, this is my sister, Mrs. Kendal, but--'

Albinia held out her hand, and grasped his; 'I can't--Maurice, speak,' she said.

The little Maurice persisted in his demand to be remounted for the twelve yards to their own
gate, but nobody heard him; his uncle was saying a few words of explanation to the stranger,
and Algernon Dusautoy was enunciating something intended as a gracious reception of the apologies
which no one was making.  All Albinia thought of was that the little unruly hand was warm and
struggling, prisoned in her own; all her brother cared for was to have her safely at home.
He led her across the bridge, and into the garden, where they met Mr. Kendal, who had taken
alarm from her absence; Lucy ran up with her story, and almost at the same moment, Albinia,
springing to him, murmured, 'Oh! Edmund, the great mercy--Maurice;' but there she found herself
making a hoarse shriek; with a mingled sense of fright and shame, she smothered it, but there
was an agony of suffocation, she felt her husband's arms round her, heard his voice, and her
boy's scream of terror--felt them all unable to help her, and sank into unconsciousness.

Mr. Ferrars helped Mr. Kendal to carry his wife's inanimate form to her room.  They used all
means of restoration, but it was a long, heavy swoon, and a slow, painful revival.  Mr. Kendal
would have been in utter despair at hearing that the doctor was out, but for his brother, with
his ready resources and cheerful encouragement; and finally, she lifted her eyelids, and as
she felt the presence of her two dearest guardians, whispered, 'Where is he?'

Lucy reported that he was with Susan, and Albinia, after hearing her husband again assure her
that he was quite safe, lay still from exhaustion, but so calm, that her brother thought them
best alone, and drew Lucy away.

In about a quarter of an hour Mr. Kendal came down, saying that she was quietly asleep, and
he had left the nurse with her.  He had yet to hear the story, and when he understood that
the child had been madly careering along the towing-path, on the back of young Dusautoy's most
spirited hunter, and had been only stopped when the horse was just about to leap the tall gate,
he was completely overcome.  When he spoke again, it was with the abrupt exclamation, 'That
child!  Lucy, bring him down!'

In marched the boy, full of life and mischief, though with a large red spot beneath each eye.

'Maurice!'  Gilbert had often heard that tone, but Maurice never, and he tossed back his head
with an innocent look of fearless wonder. 'Maurice, I find you have been a very naughty, disobedient
boy.  When you rode the pony round the yard, did not I order you never to do so again?'

'I did not do it again,' boldly rejoined Maurice.

'Speak the truth, sir.  What do you mean by denying what you have done?' exclaimed his father,
angrily.

'I didn't ride the pony,' indignantly cried the child, 'I rode a horse, saddled and bridled!'

'Don't answer me in that way!' thundered Mr. Kendal, and much incensed by the nice distinction,
and not appreciating the sincerity of it, he gave the child a shake, rough enough to bring
the red into his face, but not a tear.  'You knew it was very wrong, and you were as near as
possible breaking your neck.  You have frightened your mamma, so as to make her very ill, and
I am sorry to find you most mischievous and unruly, not to be trusted out of sight.  Now, listen
to me, I shall punish you very severely if you act in this disobedient way again.'

Papa angry, was a novel spectacle, at which Maurice looked as innocently and steadily as ever,
so completely without fear or contrition, that he provoked a stern, 'Do you hear me, sir?'
and another shake.  Maurice flushed, and his chest heaved, though he did not sob, and his father,
uncomfortable at such sharp dealing with so young a child, set him aside, with the words, 'There
now, recollect what I have told you!' and walked to the window, where he stood silent for some
seconds, while the boy stood with rounded shoulders, perplexed eye, and finger on his pouting
lip, and Mr. Ferrars, newspaper in hand, watched him under his eyelids, and speculated what
would be the best sort of mediation, or whether the young gentleman yet deserved it.  He knew
that his own Willie would have been a mere quaking, sobbing mass of terror, under such a shake,
and he would like to have been sure whether that sturdy silence were obstinacy or fortitude.

The sound of the door-bell made Mr. Kendal turn round, and laying his hand on the little fellow's
fair head, he said, 'There, Maurice, we'll say no more about it if you will be a good boy.
Run away now, but don't go into your mamma's room.'

Maurice looked up, tossed his curls out of his eyes, shook himself, felt the place on his arm
where the grip of the hand had been, and galloped off like the young colt that he was.

Albinia awoke, refreshed, though still shaken and feeble, and surprised to find that dinner
was going on downstairs.  Her own meal presently put such new force into her, that she felt
able to speak Maurice's name without bursting into tears, and longing to see both her little
ones beside her, she told the nurse to fetch the boy, but received for answer, 'No, Master
Maurice said he would not come,' and the manner conveyed that it had been defiantly said. 
Master Maurice was no favourite in the nursery, and he was still less so, when his mamma, disregarding
all mandates, set out to seek him.  Already she heard from the stairs the wrangling with Susan
that accompanied all his toilettes, and she found him the picture of firm, solid fairness,
in his little robe de nuit, growling through the combing of his tangled locks.  Though ordinarily
scornful of caresses, he sprang to her and hugged her, as she sat down on a low chair, and
he knelt in her lap, whispering with his head on her shoulder, and his arms round her neck,
'Mamma, were you dead?'

'No, Maurice,' she answered with something of a sob, 'or I should not have my dear, dear little
boy throttling me now!  But why would you not come down to me?'

'Papa said I must not.'

Oh, that was quite right, my boy;' and though she unclasped the tight arms, she drew him nestling
into her bosom.  'Oh, Maurice, it has been a terrible day!  Does my little boy know how good
the great God has been to him, and how near he was never seeing mamma nor his little sister again.'

Her great object was to make him thankful for his preservation, but with a child, knowing nothing
of death and heedless of fear, this was very difficult.  The rapid motion had been delightful
excitement, or if there had been any alarm, it was forgotten in the triumph.  She had to change
her note, and represent how the poor horse might have run into the river, or against a post!
Maurice looked serious, and then she came to the high moral tone--mounting strangers' horses
without leave--would papa, would Gilbert, think of such a thing?  The full lip was put out,
as though under conviction, and he hung his head.  'You wont do it again?' said she.

'No.'

She told him to say his prayers, guiding the confession and thanksgiving that she feared he
did not fully follow.  As he rose up, and saw the tears on her cheeks, he whispered, 'Mamma,
did it make you so?'

Cause and effect were a great puzzle to him, but that swoon was the only thing that brought
home to him that he had been guilty of something enormous, and when she owned that his danger
had been the occasion, he stood and looked; then, standing bolt upright, with clasped hands,
and rosy feet pressed close together, he said, with a long breath, 'I'll never get on Bamfylde
again till I'm a big boy.'

As he spoke, Mr. Kendal pushed open the half-closed door, and Albinia, looking up, said, 'Here's
a boy who knows he has done wrong, papa.'

Never was more welcome excuse for lifting the gallant child to his breast, and lavishing caresses
that would have been tender but for the strong spirit of riot which turned them into a game
at romps, cut short by Mr. Kendal, as soon as the noise grew very outrageous. 'That's enough
to-night; good night.'  And when they each had kissed the monkey face tossing about among the
clothes, Maurice might have heard more pride than pain in the 'I never saw such a boy!' with
which they shut the door.

'This is not prudent!' said Mr. Kendal.

'Do you think I could have rested till I had seen him? and he said you had told him not to
come down.'

'I would have brought him to you.  You are looking very ill; you had better go to bed at once.'

'No, I should not sleep.  Pray let me grow quiet first.  Now you know you trust Maurice,--old
Maurice, and I'll lie on the sofa like any mouse, if you'll bring him up and let him talk.
You know it will be an interesting novelty for you to talk, and me to listen! and he has not
seen the baby.'

Albinia gained her point, but Mr. Kendal and Lucy first tucked her up upon the sofa, till she
cried out, 'You have swathed me hand and foot.  How am I to show off that little Awk?'

'I'll take care of that,' said Mr. Kendal; and so he did, fully doing the honours of the little
daughter, who had already fastened on his heart.

'But,' cried Albinia, breaking into the midst, 'who or what are we, ungrateful monsters, never
to have thought of the man who caught that dreadful horse!'

'You shall see him as soon as you are strong enough,' said Mr. Kendal; 'your brother and I
have been with him.'

'Oh, I am glad; I could not rest if he had not been thanked.  And can anything be done for
him?  What is he?  I thought he was a gentleman.'

Maurice smiled, and Mr. Kendal answered, 'Yes, he is Mr. Goldsmith's nephew, and I am pleased
to find that he is a connexion of your brother.'

'One of the O'Mores,' cried Albinia.  'Oh, Maurice, is it really one of Winifred's O'Mores?'

'Even so,' replied Mr. Ferrars; the very last person I should have expected to meet on the
banks of the Baye!  It was that clever son of the captain's for whose education Mr. Goldsmith
paid, and it seems had sent for, to consider of his future destination.  He only arrived yesterday.'

'A very fine young man,' said Mr. Kendal. 'I was particularly pleased with his manner, and
it was an act of great presence of mind and dexterity.'

'It is all a maze and mystery to me,' said Albinia; 'do tell me all about it.  I can't make
out how the horse came there.'

'I understood that young Dusautoy was calling here,' said Mr. Kendal; 'I wondered at even his
coolness in coming in by that way, and at your letting him in.'

'I saw nothing of him,' said Albinia.  'Perhaps he was looking for Gilbert.'

'No,' said Lucy, looking up from her work, with a slight blush, and demure voice of secret
importance; 'he had only stepped in for a minute, to bring me a new fern.'

'Indeed,' said her father; 'I was not aware that he took interest in your fernery.'

'He knows everything about ferns,' said Lucy.  'Mrs. Cavendish Dusautoy once had a conservatory
filled with the rarest specimens, and he has given me a great many directions how to manage them.'

'Oh! if he could get you to listen to his maxims, I don't wonder at anything,' exclaimed Albinia.

'He had only just come in with the Adiantium, and was telling me how hydraulic power directed
a stream of water near the roots among his mother's Fuci,' said Lucy, rather hurt.  'He had
fastened up his horse quite securely, and nobody could have guessed that Maurice could have
opened that gate to cross the bridge, far less have climbed up the rail to the horse's back.
I never shall forget my fright, when we heard the creature's feet, and Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy
began to run after it directly.'

'As foolish a thing as he could have done,' said Mr. Kendal, not impressed with Mr. Cavendish
Dusautoy's condescension in giving chase.  'It was well poor little Maurice was not abandoned
to your discretion, and his resources.'

'It seems,' continued Mr. Ferrars, 'that young O'More was taking a walk on the towing-path,
and was just so far off as to see, without being able to prevent it, this little monkey scramble
from the gate upon the horse's neck.  How it was that he did not go down between, I can't guess;
the beast gave a violent start, as well it might, jerked the reins loose, and set off full
gallop.  Seeing the child clinging on like a young panther, he dashed across the meadow, to
cut him off at the turn of the river; and it was a great feat of swiftness, I assure you, to
run so lightly through those marshy meadows, so as to get the start of the runaway; then he
crept up under cover of the hedge, so as not to startle the horse, and had hold of the bridle,
just as he paused before leaping the gate!  He said he could hardly believe his eyes when he
saw the urchin safe, and looking more excited than terrified.'

'Yes, he was exceedingly struck with Maurice's spirit,' said Mr. Kendal, who, when the fright
and anger were over, could begin to be proud of the exploit.

'They fraternized at once,' said Mr. Ferrars.  'Maurice imparted that his name was Maurice
Ferrars Kendal, and Ulick, in all good faith and Irish simplicity, discovered that they were
cousins!'

'Oh! Edmund, he must come to the christening dinner!'

'Mind,' said Maurice, 'you, know he is not even my wife's cousin; only nephew to her second
cousin's husband.'

'For shame, Maurice, cousin is that cousinly does!'

'Very well, only don't tell the aunts that Winifred saddled all the O'Mores upon you.'

'Not an O'More but should be welcome for his sake!'

'Nor an Irishman,' said Mr. Ferrars.

Albinia suffered so much from the shock, that she could not make her appearance till noon on
the following day.  Then, after sitting a little while in the old study, to hear that grandmamma
had not been able to sleep all night for thinking of Maurice's danger, and being told some
terrible stories of accidents with horses, she felt one duty done, and moved on to the drawing-room
in search of her brother.

She found herself breaking upon a tete-a-tete.  A sweet, full voice, with strong cadences,
was saying something about duty and advice, and she would have retreated, but her brother and
the stranger both sprang up, and made her understand that she was by no means to go away. 
No introduction was wanted; she grasped the hand that was extended to her, and would have said
something if she could, but she found herself not strong enough to keep from tears, and only
said, 'I wish little Maurice were not gone out with his brother, but you will dine with us,
and see him to-morrow.'

'With the greatest pleasure, if my uncle and aunt will spare me.'

'They must,' said Albinia, 'you must come to meet your old friend and cousin,' she added, mischievously
glancing at Maurice, but he did not look inclined to disavow the relationship, and the youth
was not a person whom any one would wish to keep at a distance.  He seemed about nineteen or
twenty years of age, not tall, but well made, and with an air of great ease and agility, rather
lounging and careless, yet alert in a moment.  The cast of his features at once betrayed his
country, by the rounded temples, with the free wavy hair; the circular form of the eyebrow;
the fully opened dark blue eye, looking almost black when shaded; the short nose, and the well-cut
chin and lips, with their outlines of sweetness and of fun, all thoroughly Irish, but of the
best style, and with a good deal of thought and mind on the brow, and determination in the
mouth.  Albinia had scarcely a minute, however, for observation, for he seemed agitated, and
in haste to take leave, nor did her brother press him to remain, since she was still looking
very white and red, and too fragile for anything but rest.  With another squeeze of the hand
she let him go, while he, with murmured thanks, and head bent in enthusiastic honour to the
warm kindness of one so sweet and graceful, took leave.  Mr. Ferrars followed him into the
hall, leaving the door open, so that she heard the words, 'Good-bye, Ulick; I'll do my best
for you.  All I can say is, that I respect you.'

'Don't respect me too soon,' he answered; 'maybe you'll have to change your mind.  The situation
may like me no better than I the situation.'

'No, what you will, you can do; I trust to your perseverance.'

'As my poor mother does!  Well, with patience the snail got to Rome, and if it is to lighten
her load, I must bear it.  Many thanks, Mr. Ferrars.  Good morning.'

'Good morning; only, Ulick, excuse me, but let me give you a hint; if the situation is to like
you, you must mind your Irish.'

'Then you must not warm my heart with your kindness,' was the answer. 'No, no, never fear,
when I'm not with any one who has seen Ballymakilty, I can speak English so that I could not
be known for a Galway man.  Not that I'm ashamed of my country,' he added; and the next moment
the door shut behind him.

'How could you scold him for his Irish?' exclaimed Albinia, as her brother re-entered; 'it
sounds so pretty and characteristic.'

'I fear Mr. Goldsmith may think it too characteristic!'

'I am sure Edmund might well call him prepossessing.  I hope Mr. Goldsmith is going to do something
handsome for him!'

'Poor lad!  Mr. Goldsmith considers that he has purchased him for a permanent fixture on a
high stool.  It is a sad disappointment, for he had been doing his utmost to prepare himself
for college, and he has so far distinguished himself at school, that I see that a very little
help would soon enable him to maintain himself at the University.  I could have found it in
my heart to give it to him myself; it would please Winifred.'

'Oh, let us help; I am sure Edmund would be glad.'

'No, no, this is better for all.  Remember this is the Goldsmith's only measure of conciliation
towards their sister since her marriage, and it ought not to be interfered with.  Poor Ulick
says he knows this is the readiest chance of being of any use to his family, and that his mother
has often said she should be happy if she could but see one of the six launched in a way to
be independent!  There are those three eldest, little better than squireens, never doing a
thing but loafing about with their guns.  I used to long for a horse-whip to lay about them,
till they spoke to me, and then not one of the rogues but won my heart with his fun and good-nature.'

'Then I suppose it is a great thing to have one in the way of money-making.'

'Hem!  The Celtic blood is all in commotion!  This boy's business was to ask my candid opinion
whether there were anything ungentlemanlike in a clerkship in a bank.  It was well it was not you!'

'Now, Maurice, don't you know how glad I should have been if Gilbert would have been as wise!'

'Yes, you have some common sense after all, which is more than Ulick attributes to his kith
and kin.  When I had proved the respectability of banking to his conviction, I'll not say satisfaction,
he made me promise to write to his father.  He is making up his mind to what is not only a
great vexation to himself, and very irksome employment, but he knows he shall be looked down
upon as having lost caste with all his family!'

'It really is heroism!' cried Albinia.

'It is,' said Mr. Ferrars; 'he does not trust himself to face the clan, and means to get into
harness at once, so as to clench his resolution, and relieve his parents from his maintenance
immediately.'

'Is he to live with that formal Miss Goldsmith?'

'No.  In solitary lodgings, after that noisy family and easy home!  I can't think how he will
stand it.  I should not wonder if the Galwegian was too strong after all.'

'We must do all we can for him,' cried Albinia; 'Edmund likes him already.  Can't he dine with
us every Sunday?'

'I know you will be kind,' said Mr. Ferrars.  'Only see how things turn out before you commit
yourself.  Ah!  I have said the unlucky word which always makes you fly off!'

There was little fear that Ulick O'More would not win his way with Mr. and Mrs. Kendal, recommended
as he was, and with considerable attractions in the frankness and brightness of his manner.
He was a very pleasant addition to the party who dined at Willow Lawn, after the christening.
No one had time to listen to Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy's maxims, and he retired rather sullenly,
to lean against the mantelpiece, and marvel why the Kendals should invite an Irish banker's
clerk to meet him.  Gilbert likewise commented on the guest with a muttered observation on
his sisters' taste; 'Last year it was all the Polysyllable, now it would be all the Irishman!'

CHAPTER XIX.

There was a war of supremacy in the Kendal household.  Albinia and her son were Greek to Greek,
and if physical force were on her side, her own tenderness was against her.  As to allies,
Maurice had by far the majority of the household; the much-tormented Susan was her mistress's
sole supporter;  Mr. Kendal and Sophy might own it inexpedient to foster his outrecuidance,
but they so loved to do his bidding, so hated to thwart him, and so grieved at his being punished,
that they were little better than Gilbert, Lucy, grandmamma, or any of the maids or men.

The moral sense was not yet stirred, and the boy seemed to be trying the force of his will
like the strength of his limbs.  Even as he delighted to lift a weight the moment he saw that
it was heavy, so a command was to him a challenge to see how much he would undergo rather than
obey, but his resistance was so open, gay, and free, that it could hardly be called obstinacy,
and he gloried in disappointing punishment.  The dark closet lost all terror for him; he stood
there blowing the horn through his hand, content to follow an imaginary chase, and when untimely
sent to bed, he stole Susan's scissors, and cut a range of stables in the sheets.  The short,
sharp infliction of pain answered best, but his father, though he could give a shake when angry,
could not strike when cool, and Albinia was forced to turn executioner, though with such tears
and trembling that her culprit looked up reassuringly, saying, 'Never mind, mamma, I shan't!'
He did, however, mind her tears, they bore in upon him the sense of guilt; and after each transgression,
he could not be at peace till he had marched up to her, holding out his hand for the blow,
and making up his face not to wince, and then would cling round her neck to feel himself pardoned.
Justice came to him in a most fair and motherly shape!  The brightest, the merriest of all
his playmates was mamma; he loved her passionately, and could endure no cloud between himself
and her, so that he was slowly learning that submission to her was peace and pleasure, and
rebellion mere pain to both.  She established ten minutes of daily lessons, but even she could
not reach beyond the capture of his restless person, his mind was out of reach, and keen as
he was in everything else, towards "a + b = ab" he was an unmitigated dunce.  Nor did he obey
any one who did not use authority and force of will, and though perfectly simple and sincere,
he was too young to restrain himself without the assistance of the controlling power, so that
in his mother's absence he was tyrannical and violent, and she never liked to have him out
of her sight, and never was so sure that he was deep in mischief as when she had not heard
his voice for a quarter of an hour.

'Albinia,' said Mr. Kendal, one relenting autumn day, when November strove to look like April,
'I thought of walking to pay Farmer Graves for the corn.  Will you come with me?'

'Delightful, I want to see what Maurice will say to the turkey-cock.'

'Is it not too far for him?'

'He would run quite as many miles in the garden,' said Albinia, who would have walked in dread
of a court of justice on her return, had not the scarlet hose been safely prancing on the road
before her.

'This way, then,' said Mr. Kendal; 'I must get this draft changed at the bank.  Come, Maurice,
you will see a friend there.'

'Do you know, Edmund,' said Albinia, as they set forth, 'my conscience smites me as to that
youth; I think we have neglected him.'

'I cannot see what more we could have done.  If his uncle does not bring him forward in society,
we cannot interfere.'

'It must be a forlorn condition,' said Albinia; 'he is above the other clerks, and he seems
to be voted below the Bayford Elite, since the Polysyllable has made it so very refined!  One
never meets him anywhere now it is too dark to walk after the banking hours.  Cannot we ask
him to come in some evening?'

'We cannot have our evenings broken up,' said Mr. Kendal.  'I should be glad to show him any
kindness, but his uncle seems to have ruled it that he is to be considered more as his clerk
than as one of his family, and I doubt if it would be doing him any service to interfere.'

They were now at the respectable old freestone building, with 'Goldsmith' inscribed on the
iron window-blinds, and a venerable date carved over the door.  Inside, those blinds came high,
and let in but little light over the tall desks, at which were placed the black-horsehair perches
of the clerks, old Mr. Goldsmith himself occupying a lower throne, more accessible to the clients.
One of the high stools stood empty, and Albinia making inquiry, Mr. Goldsmith answered, with
a dry, dissatisfied cough, that More, as he called him, had struck work, and gone home with
a headache.

'Indeed,' said Albinia, 'I am sorry to hear it.  Mr. Hope said he thought him not looking well.'

'He has complained of headache a good deal lately,' said Mr. Goldsmith.  'Young men don't find
it easy to settle to business.'

Albinia's heart smote her for not having thought more of her son's rescuer, and she revolved
what could or what might have been done. It really was not easy to show him attention, considering
Gilbert's prejudice against his accent, and Mr. Kendal's dislike to an interrupted evening,
and all she could devise was a future call on Miss Goldsmith.  But for Maurice, it would have
been a silent walk, and though her mind was a little diverted by his gallant attempt to bestride
the largest pig in the farm-yard, she was sure Mr. Kendal was musing on the same topic, and
was not surprised when, as they returned, he exclaimed, 'I have a great mind to go and see
after that poor lad.'

'This way, then,' said Albinia, turning down a narrow muddy street parallel with the river.

'Impossible!' said Mr. Kendal; 'he can never live at the Wharves?'

'Yes,' said Albinia; 'he told me that he lodged with an old servant of the Goldsmiths, Pratt's
wife, at the Lower Wharf.'

She pointed to the name of Pratt over a shop-window in a house that had once seen better days,
but which looked so forlorn, that Mr. Kendal would not look the slatternly maid in the face
while so absurd a question was asked as whether Mr. O'More lived there.

The girl, without further ceremony, took them up a dark stair, and opened the door of a twilight
room, where Albinia's first glimpse showed her the young man with his head bent down on his
arms on the table, as close as possible to the forlorn, black fire, of the grim, dull, sulky
coal of the county, which had filled the room with smoke and blacks.  The window, opened to
clear it, only admitted the sickly scent of decaying weed from the river to compete with the
perfume of the cobbler's stock-in-trade.  Ulick started up pale and astonished, and Mr. Kendal,
struck with consternation, chiefly thought of taking away his wife and child from the infected
atmosphere, and made signs to Albinia not to sit down; but she was eagerly compassionate.

'It was nothing,' said Ulick, 'only his head was rather worse than usual, and he thought it
time to give in when the threes put lapwings' feathers in their caps just like the fives.'

'Are you subject to these headaches?'

'It is only home-sickness,' he said.  'I'll have got over it soon.'

'I must come and see after you, my good friend,' said Mr. Kendal, with suppressed impatience
and anxiety.  'I shall return in a moment or two, but I am sure you are not well enough for
so many visitors taking you by surprise.  Come.'

He was so peremptory, that Albinia found herself on the staircase before she knew what she
was about.  The fever panic had seized Mr. Kendal in full force; he believed typhus was in
the air, and insisted on her taking Maurice home at once, while he went himself to fetch Mr.
Bowles.  She did not in the least credit fever to be in the chill touch of that lizard hand,
and believed that she could have been the best doctor; but there was no arguing while he was
under this alarm, and she knew that she might be thankful not to be ordered to observe a quarantine.

When Mr. Kendal returned home he looked much discomposed, though his first words were, 'Thank
Heaven, it is no fever!  Albinia, we must look after that poor lad; he is positively poisoned
by that pestiferous river and bad living!  Bowles said he was sure he was not eating meat enough.
I dare say that greasy woman gives him nothing fit to eat!  Albinia, you must talk to him--find
out whether old Goldsmith gives him a decent salary!'

'He ought not to be in those lodgings another day.  I suppose Miss Goldsmith had no notion
what they were.  I fancy she never saw the Lower Wharf in her life.'

'I never did till to-day,' said Mr. Kendal.  'It was all of a piece-- the whole street--the
room--the furniture--why the paper was coming off the walls!  What could they be dreaming of!
And there he was, trying to read a little edition of Prodentius, printed at Salamanca, which
he picked up at a bookstall at Galway.  It must have belonged to some priest educated in Spain.
He says any Latin book was invaluable to him.  He is infinitely too good for his situation,
and the Goldsmiths are neglecting him infamously.  Look out some rooms fit for him, Albinia.'

'I will try.  Let me see--if I could only recollect any; but Mr. Hope has the only really nice
ones in the place.'

'Somewhere he must be, if it is in this house.'

'There is poor old Madame Belmarche's still empty, with Bridget keeping it.  I wish he could
have rooms there.'

'Well, why not?  Pettilove told me it must be let as two tenements. If the old woman could
take half, a lodger would pay her rent,' said Mr. Kendal, promptly.  'You had better propose it.'

'And the Goldsmiths?' asked Albinia.

'I will show him the Lower Wharf.'

The next afternoon Mr. Kendal desired his wife to go to the Bank and borrow young O'More for
her walking companion.

'Really I don't know whether I have the impudence.'

'I will come and do it for you.  You will do best alone with the lad; I want you to get into
his confidence, and find out whether old Goldsmith treats him properly.  I declare, but that
I know John Kendal so well, this would be enough to make me rejoice that Gilbert is not thrown
on the world!'

Albinia knew herself to be so tactless, that she saw little hope other doing anything but setting
him against his relations; but her husband was in no frame to hear objections, so she made
none, and only trusted she should not be very foolish.  At least, the walk would be a positive
physical benefit to the slave of the desk.

Ulick O'More was at his post, and said his head was well, but his hair stuck up as if his fingers
had been many times run through it; he was much thinner, and the wearied countenance, whitened
complexion, and spiritless sunken eyes, were a sad contrast to the glowing freshness and life
that had distinguished him in the summer.

Mr. Kendal told the Banker that it had been decided that his nephew needed exercise, and that
Mrs. Kendal would be glad of his company in a long walk.  Mr. Goldsmith seemed rather surprised,
but consented, whereupon the young clerk lighted up into animation, and bounded out of his
prison house, with a springy step learnt upon mountain heather.  Mr. Kendal only waited to
hear whither they were bound.

'Oh! as far as we can go on the Woodside road,' said Albinia.  'I think the prescription I
used to inflict on poor Sophy will not be thrown away here.  I always fancy there is a whiff
of sea air upon the hill there.'

Ulick smiled at such a fond delusion, bred up as he had been upon the wildest sea-coast, exposed
to the full sweep of the Atlantic storm! She set him off upon his own scenery, to the destruction
of his laborious English, as he dwelt on the glories of his beloved rocks rent by fierce sea
winds and waves into fantastic, grotesque, or lovely shapes, with fiords of exquisite blue
sea between, the variety of which had been to him as the gentle foliage of tamer countries.
Not a tree stood near the 'town' of Ballymakilty, but the wild crags, the sparkling waters,
the broad open hills, and the bogs, with their intensely purple horizon, held fast upon his
heart; and he told of white sands, reported to be haunted by mermaids, and crevices of rock
where the tide roared, and gave rise to legends of sea monsters, and giants turned to stone.
He was becoming confidential and intimate when, in a lowered voice, he mentioned the Banshee's
crag, where the shrouded messenger of doom never failed to bewail each dying child of the O'More,
and where his own old nurse had actually beheld her keening for the uncle who was killed among
the Caffres.  Albinia began to know how she ought to respect the O'Mores.

They were skirting the side of the hill, with a dip of green meadow-land below them, rising
on the other side into coppices.  The twang of the horn, and the babbling cry of the hounds,
reminded Albinia that the hunting season had begun, and looking over a gate, she watched the
parti-coloured forms of the dogs glancing among the brushwood opposite, and an occasional red
coat gleaming out through the hedge above.  Just then the cry ceased, the dogs became silent,
and scattered hither and thither bewildered.  Ulick looked eagerly, then suddenly vaulted over
the gate, went forward a few steps, looked again, pointed towards some dark object which she
could barely discern, put his finger in his ear, and uttered an unearthly screech, incomprehensible
to her, but well understood by the huntsman, and through him by the dogs, which at once simultaneously
dashed in one direction, and came pouring into the meadow over towards him, down went their
heads, up went their curved tails, the clatter and rushing of hoofs, and the apparition of
red coats, showed the hunters all going round the copse, while at the same moment, away with
winged steps bounded her companion, flying headlong like the wind, so as to meet the hunt.

          'Ask me not what the lady feels,
           Left in that dreadful hour alone,'

laughed Albinia to herself.  'Well done, speed!  Edmund might be satisfied there's not much
amiss!  Through the hedge--over the meadow--a flying leap over the stream--it is more like
a bird than a man--up again.  Does he mean to follow the hunt all the rest of the way?  Rather
Irish, I must say!  And I do believe they will all come down this lane!  I must walk on; it
wont do to be overtaken here between these high hedges.  Ah!  I thought he was too much of
a gentleman to leave me--here he comes.  How much in his way I must be! I never saw such a
runner; not a bit does he slacken for the hill--and what bright cheeks and eyes!  What good
it must have done him!'

'I beg ten thousand pardons!' cried he, as he came up, scarcely out of breath.  'I declare
I forgot you, I could not help it, when I saw them at a check !'

'You feel for the hunter as I do for the fox,' said Albinia.  'Is yours one of the great hunting
neighbourhoods?'

'That it is!' he cried.  'My grandfather had the grand stud!  He and his seven sons were out
three times in the week, and there was a mount for whoever wanted it!'

'And this generation is not behind the last?'

'Ah! and why would it be?' exclaimed the boy, the last remnant of English pronunciation forsaking
him.  'My Uncle Connel has the best mare on this side the bridge of Athlone!  I mean that side.'

'And how is it with you?' asked Albinia.

'We've got no horses--that is, except my father's mare, and the colt, and Fir Darrig--the swish-tailed
pony--and the blind donkey that brings in the turf.  So we younger ones mostly go hunting on
foot; and after all I believe that's the best sport.  Bryan always comes in before any of the
horses, and we all think it a shame if we don't!'

'I see where you learnt the swiftness of foot that was so useful last July,' said Albinia.

'That? oh! but Bryan would have been up long before me,' said Ulick. 'He'd have made for the
lock, not the gate!  You should see what sport we have when the fox takes to the Corrig Dearg
up among the rocks--and little Rosie upon Fir Darrig, with her hair upon the wind, and her
colour like the morning cloud, glancing in and out among the rocks like the fairy of the glen.
There are those that think her the best part of the hunt; they say the English officers at
Ochlochtimore would never think it worth coming out but for her.  I don't believe that, you
know,' he added, laughing, 'though I like to fetch a rise out of Ulick at the great house by
telling him of it.'

'How old is she?'

'Fifteen last April, and she is like an April wind, when it comes warm and frolicking over
the sea!  So wild and free, and yet so gentle and soft!  Ellen and Mary are grave and steady,
and work hard- -every stitch of my stockings was poor Mary's knitting, except what poor old
Peggy would send up for a compliment; but Rosie--I don't think she does a thing but sing, and
ride, and row the boat, and keep the house alive!  My mother shakes her head, but I don't know
what she'll say when she gets my aunt's letter.  My Aunt Goldsmith purses up her lips, and
says, "I'll write to advise my sister to send her daughters to some good school."  Ellen, maybe,
might bear one, but ah! the thought of little Rosie in a good school!'

'Like her brother Ulick in a good bank, eh?'

'Why,' he cried, 'they always called me the steady Englishman!'

Albinia laughed, but at that moment the sounds of the hunt again occupied them, and all were
interpreted by Ulick with the keenest interest, but he would not run away again, though she
exhorted him not to regard her.  Presently it swept on out of hearing, and by-and-bye they
reached the summit of the hill, and looked forth on the dark pine plantations on the opposite
undulation, standing out in black relief against a sky golden with a pale, pure, pearly November
sunset, a 'daffodil sky' flecked with tiny fleeces of soft bright-yellow light, reminding Albinia
of Fouque's beautiful dream of Aslauga's golden hair showing the gates of Heaven to her devoted
knight.  She looked for her companion's sympathy in her admiration, but the woods seemed to
oppress him, and his panting sigh showed how real a thing was he-men.

'Oh! my poor sun!' he broke out, 'I pity you for having to go down before your time into these
black, stifling woods that rise up to smother you like giants--and not into your own broad,
cool Atlantic, laughing up your own sparkles of light.'

'We inland people can hardly appreciate your longing for space.'

'It's a very prison,' said Ulick; 'the horizon is choked all round, and one can't breathe in
these staid stiff hedges and enclosures!' And he threw out his arms and flapped them over his
breast with a gesture of constraint.

'You seem no friend to cultivation.'

'Why, your meadows would be pretty things if they were a little greener,' said Ulick; 'but
one gets tired of them, and of those straight lines of ploughed field.  There's no sense of
liberty; it is like the man whose prison walls closed in upon him!'  And he gave another weary
sigh, his step lost elasticity, and he moved on heavily.

'You are tired; I have brought you too far.'

'Tired by a bit of a step like this?' cried the boy, disdainfully, as he straightened himself,
and resumed his brisk tread.  But it did not last.

'I had forgotten that you had not been well,' she said.

'Pshaw!' muttered Ulick; then resumed, 'Aye, Mr. Kendal brought in the doctor upon me--very
kind of him--but I do assure you 'tis nothing but home sickness; I was nearly as bad when I
went to St. Columba, but I got over it then, and I will again!'

'It may be so in part,' said Albinia, kindly; 'but let me be impertinent, Ulick, for my sister
Winifred told me to look after you; surely you give it every provocation.  Such a change of
habits is enough to make any one ill.  Should you not ask your uncle for a holiday, and go
home for a little while?'

'Don't name it, I beg of you,' cried the poor lad in an agitated voice, 'it would only bring
it all over again!  I've promised my mother to do my part, and with His help I will!  Let the
columns run out to all eternity, and the figures crook themselves as spitefully as they will,
I've vowed to myself not to stir till I've got the better of the villains!'

'Ah!' said Albinia, 'they have blackened your eyes like the bruises of material antagonists!
Yes, it is a gallant battle, but indeed you must give yourself all the help you can, for it
would be doing your mother no good to fall ill.'

'I've no fears,' said Ulick; 'I know very well what is the matter with me, and that if I don't
give way, it will go off in time. You've given it a good shove with your kindness, Mrs. Kendal,'
he added, with deep emotion in his sensitive voice; 'only you must not talk of my going home,
or you'll undo all you have done.'

'Then I won't; we must try to make you a home here.  And in the first place, those lodgings
of yours; you can never be comfortable in them.'

'Ah! you saw my fire smoking.  I never shall learn to make a coal fire burn.'

'Not only that,' said Albinia, 'but you might easily find rooms much better furnished, and
fitter for you.'

'I do assure you,' exclaimed Ulick, 'you scarcely saw it!  Why, I don't think there's a room
at the big house in better order, or so good!'

'At least,' said Albinia, repressing her deduction as to the big house of Ballymakilty, 'you
have no particular love for the locality--the river smell--the stock of good leather, &c.'

'It's all Bayford and town smell together,' said Ulick; 'I never thought one part worse than
another, begging your pardon, Mrs. Kendal.'

'And I am sure,' she continued, 'that woman can never make your meals comfortable.  Yes, I
see I am right, and I assure you hard head-work needs good living, and you will never be a
match for the rogues in black and white without good beef-steaks.  Now confess whether she
gives you dinners of old shoe-leather.'

'A man can't sit down to dinner by himself,' cried Ulick, impatiently.  'Tea with a book are
all that is bearable.'

'And you never go out--never see any one.'

'I dine at my uncle's every Sunday,' said Ulick.

'Is that all the variety you have?'

'Why, my uncle told me he would not have me getting into what he calls idle company.  I've
dined once at the vicarage, and drunk tea twice with Mr. Hope, but it is no use thinking of
it--I couldn't afford it, and that's the truth.'

'Have you any books?  What can you find to do all the evening?'

'I have a few that bear reading pretty often, and Mr. Hope as lent me some.  I've been trying
to keep up my Greek, and then I do believe there's some way of simplifying those accounts by
logarithms, if I could but work it out.  But my mother told me to walk, and I assure you I
do take a constitutional as soon as I come out at half-past four every day.'

'Well, I have designs, and mind you don't traverse them, or I shall have to report you at home.
I have a lodging in my eye for you, away from the river, and a nice clean, tidy Irishwoman
to keep you in order, make your fires, and cram you, if you wont eat, and see if she does not
make a man of you--'

'Stop, stop, Mrs. Kendal!' cried Ulick, distressed.  'You are very kind, but it can't be.'

'Excuse me, it is economy of the wrong sort to live in a gutter, and catch agues and fevers.
Only think, if it was my boy Gilbert, should I not be obliged to any one that would tyrannize
over him for his good!  Besides, what I propose is not at all beyond such means as Mr. Kendal
tells me are the least Mr. Goldsmith ought to give you.  Do you dislike going into particulars
with me?  You know I am used to think for Gilbert, and I am a sort of cousin.'

'You are kindness itself,' said Ulick; 'and there! I suppose I must go to the bottom of it,
and it is no news that pence are not plenty among the O'Mores, though it is no fault of my
uncle.  See there what my poor dear mother says.'

He drew a letter from his pocket, and gave a page to her.

'I miss you sorely, my boy,' it said; 'I know the more what a support and friend you have been
to me now that you are so far away; but all is made up to me in knowing you to be among my
own people, and the instrument of reconciliation with my brother, as you well know how great
has been the pain of the estrangement caused by my own pride and wilfulness.  I cannot tell
you how glad I am that he approves of you, and that you are beginning to get used to the work
that was my own poor father's for so long.  Bred up as you have been, my mountain lad, I scarcely
dared to hope that you would be able to sit down quietly to it, with all our hopes of making
you a scholar so suddenly frustrated; but I might have put faith in your loving heart and sense
of duty to carry you through anything.  I feel as if a load were off my mind since you and
Bryan are so happily launched.  The boy has not once applied for money since he joined; and
if you write to him, pray beg him to be careful, for it would well-nigh drive your father mad
to be pressed any more--the poor mare has been sold at a dead loss and the Carrick-humbug quarry
company pays no dividends, so how we are to meet the Christmas bills I cannot guess.  But,
as you remember, we have won over worse times, and now Providence has been so good to you and
Bryan, what have I to do but be thankful and hope the best.'

Ulick watched her face, and gave her another note, saying mournfully, 'You see they all, but
my mother, think, that if I am dragging our family honour through the mire, I've got something
by it.  Poor Bryan, he knows no better--he's younger than me by two years.'

The young ensign made a piteous confession of the first debt he had been able to contract,
for twenty pounds, with a promise that if his brother would help him out of this one scrape,
he would never run into another.

'I am very sorry for you, Ulick,' said Albinia, 'and I hate to advise you to be selfish, but
it really is quite impossible for you to be paymaster for all your brothers' debts.'

'If it were Connel, I know it would be of no use,' said Ulick.  'But Bryan--you see he has
got a start--they gave him a commission, and he is the finest fellow of us all, and knows what
his word is, and keeps it!  Maybe, if I get on, I may be able to save, and help him to his
next step, and then if Redmond could get to college, my mother would be a happy woman, and
all thanks to my uncle.'

'Then it is this twenty pounds that is pinching you now?  Is that it?'

'You see my uncle said he would give me enough to keep me as a gentleman and his nephew, but
not enough to keep all the family, as he said.  After my Christmas quarter I shall be up in
the world again, and then there will be time to think of the woman you spoke of--a Connaught
woman, did you say?'

When Albinia reported this dialogue to her husband, he was much moved by this simple self-abnegation.

'There is nothing for it,' he said, 'but to bring him here till Christmas, and by that time
we will take care that the new lodgings are cheap enough for him.  He must not be left to the
mercy of old Goldsmith and his sister!'

Even Albinia was astonished, but Mr. Kendal carried out his intentions, and went in quest of
his new friend; while no one thought of objecting except grandmamma.

'I suppose, my dear,' she said, 'that you know what Mr. Goldsmith means to do for this young man.'

'I am sure I don't,' said Albinia.

'Really!  Ah! well, I'm an old woman, and I may be wrong, but my poor dear Mr. Meadows would
never encourage a banker's clerk about the house unless he knew what were his expectations.
Irish too!  If there was a thing Mr. Meadows disliked more than another, it was an Irishman!
He said they were all adventurers.'

However, Ulick's first evening at Willow Lawn was on what he called 'a headache day.'  He could
not have taken a better measure for overcoming grandmamma's objections.  Poor dear Mr. Meadows'
worldly wisdom was not sufficiently native to her to withstand the sight of anything so pale
and suffering, especially as he did not rebel against answering her close examination, which
concluded in her pronouncing these intermitting attacks to be agueish, and prescribing quinine.
To take medicines is an effectual way of gaining an old lady's love.  Ulick was soon established
in her mind as 'a very pretty behaved young gentleman.'

In the evenings, when Mr. Kendal read aloud, Ulick listened, and enjoyed it from the corner
where he sheltered his eyes from the light.  He was told that he ought to go to bed quickly,
but after the ladies were in their rooms, a long buzzing murmur was heard in the passage, and
judicious peeping revealed the two gentlemen, each, candle in hand, the one with his back against
the wall at the top of the stairs, the other leaning upon the balusters three steps below,
and there they stayed, till the clock struck one, and Ulick's candle burnt out.

'What could you be talking about?' asked the aggrieved Albinia.

'Prometheus Vinctus,' composedly returned Mr. Kendal.

Ulick's eagerness in collecting every crumb of scholarship was a great bond of union; but there
was still more in the bright, open, demonstrative nature of the youth, which had a great attraction
for the reserved, serious Mr. Kendal, and scarcely a day had passed before they were on terms
of intimacy, almost like an elder and younger brother.  Admitted into the family as a connexion,
Ulick at once viewed the girls as cousins, and treated them with the same easy grace of good-natured
familiarity as if they had been any of the nineteen Miss O'Mores around Ballymakilty.

'How is your head now?' asked Mr. Kendal.  'You are late this evening.'

'Yes,' said Ulick, entering the drawing-room, which was ruddy with firelight, and fragrant
with the breath of the conservatory, and leaning over an arm-chair, as he tried to rub the
aching out of his brow; 'there were some accounts to finish up and my additions came out different
every time.'

'A sure sign that you ought to have left off.'

'I was just going to have told my uncle I was good for nothing to-day, when I heard old Johns
mumbling something to him about Mr. More being unwell, and looking up, I saw that cold grey
eye twinkling at me, as much as to say he was proud to see how soon an Irishman could be beaten.
So what could I do but give him look for look, and go on with eight and seven, and five and
two, as unconcerned as he was.'

'Well,' said Mr. Kendal, 'you know I think that your uncle's apparent indifference may be his
fashion of being your best friend.'

'I'd take it like sunshine in May from a stranger, and be proud to disappoint him,' said Ulick,
'but to call himself my uncle, and use my mother's own eyes to look at me that way, that's
the stroke! and to think that I'm only striving to harden myself by force of habit to be exactly
like him!  I'd rather enlist to-morrow, if that would not be his greatest triumph!' he cried,
pressing his hands hard on his temple.  'It is very childish, but I could forgive him anything
but using my mother's eyes that way!'

'You will yet rejoice in the likeness,' said Mr. Kendal.  'You must believe in more than you
can trace, and when your perseverance has conquered his esteem, the rest will follow.'

'Follow?  The rest, as you call it, would go before at home,' sighed Ulick, wearily.  'Esteem
is like fame! what I want begins without it, and lives as well with or without it!'

'Perhaps,' said his friend, 'Mr. Goldsmith would think it weakness to show preference to a
relation before it was earned.'

'Ah then,' cried Ulick, in a quaint Irish tone, 'Heaven have mercy on the little children!'

'Yes, the doctrine can only be consistently held by a solitary man.'

'Where would we be but for inconsistency?' exclaimed Ulick.

'I do not like to hear you talk in that manner,' said Sophy. 'Inconsistency is mere weakness.'

'Ah! then you are the dangerous character,' said Ulick, with a droll gesture of sheltering
himself behind the chair.

'I did not call myself consistent, I wish I were,' she said, gravely.

'How she must love the French!' returned Ulick, confidentially turning to her father.

'Not at all, I detest them.'

'Then you are inconsistent, for they're the very models of uncompromising consistency.'

'Yes, to bad principles,' said Sophy.

'Robespierre was a prime specimen of consistency to good principle!'

Sophy turned to her father, and with an odd dubious look, asked him, 'Is be teasing me?'

'He'd be proud to have the honour,' Ulick made answer, so that Mr. Kendal's smile grew broad.
It was the funniest thing to see Ulick sporting with Sophy's gravity, constraining her to playfulness,
with something of the compulsion exercised by a large frolicsome puppy upon a sober old dog
of less size and strength.

'I do not like to see powers wasted on paradox,' she said, even as the grave senior might roll
up his lip and snarl.

'I'm in earnest, Sophy,' pursued Ulick, changing his note to eagerness.  'La grande nation
herself finds that logic was her bane. Consistency was never made for man!  Why where would
this world be if it did not go two ways at once?'

Sophy did laugh at this Irish version of the centripetal and centrifugal forces, but she held
out.  'The earth describes a circle; I like straight lines.'

'Much we shall have of the right direction, unless we are content to turn right about face,'
said Ulick.  'The best path of life is but a herring-bone pattern.'

'What does he know of herring-boning?' asked Mrs. Kendal, coming in at the moment, with a white
cashmere cloak folded picturesquely over her delicate blue silk.  Ulick in a moment assumed
a less careless attitude, as he answered--

'I found my poetical illustration on the motion of the earth too much for her, so I descended
to the herring-bone as more suited to her capacity.'

'There he is, mamma,' said Sophy, 'pleading that consistency is the most ruinous thing in the
world.'

'I thought as much,' said Albinia.  'Prometheus and his kin do most abound when Ulick's head
is worst, and papa is in greatest danger of being late.'

Mr. Kendal turned round, looked at the time-piece, and marched off.

'But mamma!' continued Sophy, driving straight at her point, 'what do you think of consistency?'

'Oh, mamma!' cried Lucy, coming into the room in a flutter of white; 'there you are in your
beautiful blue!  Have you really put it on for the Drurys?'

Sophy bit her lip, neither pleased at the interruption, nor at the taste.

'Have you a graduated scale of dresses for all your friends, Lucy? asked Ulick.

'Everybody has, I suppose,' said Lucy.

'Ah! then I shall know how to judge how I stand in your favour.  I never knew so well what
the garb of friendship meant.'

'You must know which way her scale goes,' said Albinia, laughing at Sophy's evident affront
at the frivolous turn the conversation had taken.

'That needs no asking,' quoth Ulick, 'Unadorned, adorned the most for the nearest the hearth.'

'That's all conceit,' said Lucy.  'Maybe familiarity breeds contempt.'

'No, no, when young ladies despise, they use a precision that says, "'Tis myself I care for,
and not you."'

'What an observer!' cried Lucy.  'Now then, interpret my dress to-night!'

'How can you, Lucy!' muttered the scandalized Sophy.

'Well, Sophy, as you will have him to torment with philosophy this whole evening, I think you
might give him a little respite,' said Lucy, good-humouredly.  'I want to know what my dress
reveals to him!' and drawing up her head, where two coral pins contrasted with her dark braids,
and spreading out her full white skirts and cerise trimmings, she threw her figure into an
attitude, and darted a merry challenge from her lively black eyes, while Ulick availed himself
of the permission to look critically, and Sophy sank back disgusted.

'Miss Kendal can, when she is inclined, produce as much effect with her beams of the second
order as with all her splendours displayed.'

'Stuff,' said Lucy.

'Stuff indeed,' more sincerely murmured Sophy.

'Say something in earnest,' said Lucy.  'You professed to tell what I thought of the people.'

'I hope you'll never put on such new white gloves where I'm the party chiefly concerned.'

'What do you mean?'

'They are a great deal too unexceptionable.'

If there were something coquettish in the manner of these two, it did not give Albinia much
concern.  It was in him 'only Irish;' and Fred Ferrars had made her believe that it was rather
a sign of the absence of love than of its presence.  She saw much more respect and interest
in his mischievous attacks on Sophy's gravity, and though Lucy both pitied him and liked chattering
with him, it was all the while under the secret protest that he was only a banker's clerk.

Sophy was glad of the presence of a third person to obviate the perils of her evenings with
grandmamma, and she beheld the trio set off to their dinner-party, without the usual dread
of being betrayed into wrangling.  Mr. O'More devoted himself to the old lady's entertainment,
he amused her with droll stories, and played backgammon with her.  Then she composed herself
to her knitting, and desired them not to mind her, she liked to hear young people talk cheerfully;
whereupon Sophy, by way of light and cheerful conversation, renewed the battle of consistency
with a whole broadside of heavy metal.

When the diners-out came home, they found the war raging as hotly as ever; a great many historical
facts and wise sayings having been fired off on both sides, and neither having found out that
each meant the same thing.

However, the hours had gone imperceptibly past them, which could not be said for the others.
The half-yearly dinners at Mr. Drury's were Albinia's dread nearly as much as Mr. Kendal's
aversion.  He was certain, whatever he might intend, to fall into a fit of absence, and she
was almost equally sure to hear something unpleasant, and to regret her own reply.  On the
whole, however, Mr. Kendal came away on this evening the least dissatisfied, for Mr. Goldsmith
had asked him with some solicitude, whether he thought 'that lad, young More,' positively unwell;
and had gone the length of expressing that he seemed to be fairly sharp, and stuck to his work.
Mr. Kendal seized the moment for telling his opinion, of Ulick, and though Mr. Goldsmith coughed
and looked dry and almost contemptuous, he was perceptibly gratified, and replied with a maxim
evidently intended both as an excuse for himself and as a warning to the Kendals, that young
men were always spoilt by being made too much of--in his younger days--&c.

Lucy, meantime, was undergoing the broad banter of her unrefined cousins on the subject of
the Irish clerk.  A very little grace in the perpetration would have made it grateful to her
vanity, but this was far too broad raillery, and made her hold up her head with protestations
of her perfect indifference, to which her cousins manifested incredulity, visiting on her with
some petty spite their small jealousies of her higher pretensions, and of the attention which
had been paid to her by Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy.

'Not that he will ever look at you again, Lucy, you need not flatter yourself,' said the amiable
Sarah Anne.  'Harry Wolfe writes that he was flirting with a beautiful young lady who came
to see Oxford, and that he is spending quantities of money.'

'It is nothing to me, I am sure,' retorted Lucy.  'Besides, Gilbert says no such thing.'

'Gilbert! oh, no!' exclaimed Miss Drury; 'why, he is just as bad himself.  Papa said, from
what Mrs. Wolfe told him, he would not take 500 pounds to pay Mr. Gilbert's bills.'

Albinia had been hearing much the same story from Mrs. Drury, though not so much exaggerated,
and administered with more condolence.  She did not absolutely believe, and yet she could not
utterly disbelieve, so the result was a letter to Gilbert, with an anxious exhortation to be
careful, and not to be deluded into foolish expenditure in imitation of the Polysyllable; and
as no special answer was returned, she dismissed the whole from her mind as a Drury allegation.

The horse chanced to be lame, so that Gilbert could not be met at Hadminster on his return
from Oxford, but much earlier than the omnibus usually lumbered into Bayford, he astonished
Sophy, who was lying on the sofa in the morning-room, by marching in with a free and easy step,
and a loose coat of the most novel device.

'No one else at home?' he asked.

'Only grandmamma.  We did not think the omnibus would come in so soon, but I suppose you took
a fly, as there were three of you.'

'As if we were going to stand six miles of bus with the Wolfe cub! No, Dusautoy brought his
horse down with him, and I took a fly!' said Gilbert.  'Well, and what's the matter with Captain;
has the Irishman been riding him?'

Sophy bit her lip to prevent an angry answer, and was glad that Maurice rushed in, fall of
uproarious joy.  'Hollo! boy, how you grow!  What have you got there?'

'It's my new pop-gun, that Ulick made me, I'll shoot you,' cried Maurice, retiring to a suitable
distance.

'I declare the child has caught the brogue!  Is the fellow here still?'

'What fellow?' coldly asked Sophy.

'Why, this pet of my father's.'

'Bang!' cried Maurice, and a pellet passed perilously close to Gilbert's eyes.

'Don't, child.  Pray is this banker's clerk one of our fixtures, Sophy?'

'I don't know why you despise him, unless it is because it is what you ought to be yourself,'
Sophy was provoked into retorting.

'Apparently my father has a monomania for the article.'  Gilbert intended to speak with provoking
coolness; but another fraternal pellet hit him fall in the nose, and the accompanying shout
of glee was too much for an already irritated temper.  With passion most unusual in him, he
caught hold of the child, and exclaiming, 'You little imp, what do you mean by it?' he wrenched
the weapon out of his hand, and dashed it into the fire, in the midst of an energetic 'For
shame!' from his sister.  Maurice, with a furious 'Naughty Gilbert,' struck at him with both
his little fists clenched, and then precipitated himself over the fender to snatch his treasure
from the grate, but was instantly captured and pulled back, struggling, kicking, and fighting
with all his might, till, to the equal relief of both brothers, Sophy held up the pop-gun in
the tongs, one end still tinged with a red glow, smoky, blackened, and perfumed. Maurice made
one bound, she lowered it into his grasp as the last red spark died out, and he clasped it
as Siegfried did the magic sword!

'There, Maurice, I didn't mean it,' said Gilbert, heartily ashamed and sorry; 'kiss and make
it up, and then put on your hat, and we'll come up to old Smith's and get such a jolly one!'

The forgiving child had already given the kiss, glad to atone for his aggressions, but then
was absorbed in rubbing the charred wood, amazed that while so much black came off on his fingers,
the effect on the weapon was not proportionate, and then tried another shot in a safer direction.
'Come,' said Gilbert, 'put that black affair into the fire, and come along.'

'No!' said Maurice; 'it is my dear gun that Ulick made me, and it shan't be burnt.'

'What, not if I give you a famous one--like a real one, with a stock and barrel?' said Gilbert,
anxious to be freed from the tokens of his ebullition.

'No! no!' still stoutly said the constant Maurice.  'I don't want new guns; I've got my dear
old one, and I'll keep him to the end of his days and mine!' and he crossed his arms over it.

'That's right, Maurice,' said Sophy; 'stick to old friends that have borne wounds in your service!'

'Well, it's his concern if he likes such a trumpery old thing,' said Gilbert.  'Come here,
boy; you don't bear malice!  Come and have a ride on my back.'

The practical lesson, 'don't shoot at your brother's nose,' would never have been impressed,
had not mamma, on coming in, found Maurice and his pop-gun nearly equally black, and by gradual
unfolding of cause and effect, learnt his forgotten offence.  She reminded him of ancient promises
never to aim at human creatures, assured him that Gilbert was very kind not to have burnt it
outright; and to the great displeasure, and temporary relief of all the family, sequestrated
the weapon for the rest of the evening.

Sophy told her in confidence that Gilbert had been the most to blame, which she took as merely
an instance of Sophy's blindness to Maurice's errors; for the explosion had so completely worked
off the Oxford dash, that he was perfectly meek and amiable.  Considering the antecedents,
such a contrast to himself as young O'More could hardly fail to be an eyesore, walking tame
about the home, and specially recommended to his friendship; but so good-natured was he, and
so attractive was the Irishman, that it took much influence from Algernon Dusautoy to keep
up a thriving aversion.  Albinia marvelled at the power exercised over Gilbert by one whose
intellect and pretensions he openly contemned, but perceived that obstinacy and undoubting
self-satisfaction overmastered his superior intelligence and principle, and that while perceiving
all the follies of the Polysyllable, Gilbert had a strange propensity for his company, and
therein always resumed the fast man, disdainful of the clerk.  He did not like Ulick better
for being the immediate cause of the removal of the last traces of the Belmarche family from
their old abode, which had been renovated by pretty shamrock chintz furniture, the pride of
the two Irish hearts.  Indeed it was to be feared that Bridget would assist in the perpetuation
of those rolling R's which caused Mr. Goldsmith's brow to contract whenever his nephew careered
along upon one.

His departure from Willow Lawn was to take place at Christmas.  The Ferrars party were coming
to keep the two consecutive birthdays of Sophy and Maurice at Bayford, would take him back
for Christmas-day to Fairmead, and on his return he would take possession of his new rooms.

Maurice's fete was to serve as the occasion of paying off civilities to a miscellaneous young
party; but as grandmamma's feelings would have been hurt, had not Sophy's been equally distinguished,
it was arranged that Mrs. Nugent should then bring her eldest girl to meet the Ferrarses at
an early tea.

Just as Albinia had descended to await her guests, Gilbert came down, and presently said, with
would-be indifference, 'Oh, by-the-by, Dusautoy said he would look in.'

'The Polysyllable!' cried Albinia, thunderstruck; 'what possessed you to ask him, when you
knew I sacrificed Mr. Dusautoy rather than have him to spoil it all?'

'I didn't ask him exactly,' replied Gilbert; 'it was old Bowles, who met us, and tried to nail
us to eat our mutton with him, as he called it.  I had my answer, and Dusautoy got off by saying
he was engaged to us, and desired me to tell you he would make his excuses in person.'

'He can make no excuse for downright falsehood.'

'Hem!' quoth Gilbert.  'You wouldn't have him done into drinking old Bowles's surgery champagne.'

'One comfort is that he wont get any dinner,' said Albinia, vindictively.  'I hope he'll be
ravenously hungry.'

'He may not come after all,' said Gilbert; and Albinia, laying hold of that hope, had nearly
forgotten the threatened disaster, as her party appeared by instalments, and Winifred owned
to her that Sophy had grown better-looking than could have been expected.  Her eyes had brightened,
the cloudy brown of her cheeks was enlivened, she held herself better, and the less childish
dress was much to her advantage.  But above all, the moody look of suffering was gone, and
her face had something of the grave sweetness and regular beauty of that of her father.

'Seventeen,' said Mrs. Ferrars; 'by the time she is seventy, she may be a remarkably handsome
woman!'

The tea-drinking was in lively operation, when after a thundering knock, Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy
was ushered in, with the air of a prince honouring the banquet of his vassals, saying, 'I told
Kendal I should presume on your hospitality, I beg you will make no difference on my account.'

Of which gracious permission Albinia was resolved to avail herself. She left all the insincerity
to her husband, and would by no means allow grandmamma to abdicate the warm corner.  She suspected
that he wanted an introduction to Mrs. Nugent, and was resolved to defeat this object, unless
he should condescend to make the request, so she was well satisfied to see him wedged in between
papa and Sophy, while a prodigious quantity of Irish talk was going on between Mrs. Nugent
and Mr. O'More, with contributions of satire from Mr. Ferrars which kept every one laughing
except little Nora Nugent and Mary Ferrars, who were deep in the preliminaries of an eternal
friendship, and held the ends of each other's crackers like a pair of doves.  Lucy, however,
was ill at ease at the obscurity which shrouded the illustrious guest, and in her anxiety,
gave so little attention to her two neighbours, that Willie Ferrars, affronted at some neglect,
exclaimed, 'Why, Lucy, what makes you screw your eyes about so! you can't attend to any one.'

'It is because Polly Silly is there,' shouted Master Maurice from his throne beside his mamma.

To the infinite relief of the half-choked Albinia, little Mary Ferrars, with whom her cousin
had been carrying on a direful warfare all day, fitted on the cap, shook her head gravely at
him, and after an appealing look of indignation, first at his mamma, then at her own, was overheard
confiding to Nora Nugent that Maurice was a very naughty boy--she was sorry to say, a regular
spoilt child.

'But how should you hinder Miss Kendal from attending?'

'I'll tell you, darling.  Poor Lucy! she is very fond of me, and I dare say she wanted me to
sit next to her, but you know she will have me for three days, and I have you only this one
evening.  I'll go and speak to her after tea, when we go into the drawing-room, and then she
wont mind.'

Lucy, after an agony of blushes, had somewhat recovered on finding that no one seemed to apply
her brother's speech, and when the benevolent Mary made her way to her, and thrust a hand into
hers, only a feeble pressure replied to these romantic blandishments, so anxious was she to
carry to Mrs. Kendal the information that Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy had been so obliging as to
desire his servant to bring his guitar and key-bugle.

'We are much obliged,' said Albinia, 'but look at that face!' and she turned Lucy towards Willie's
open-mouthed, dismayed countenance.  You must tell him the company are not sufficiently advanced
in musical science.'

'But mamma, it would gratify him!'

'Very likely'--and without listening further, Albinia turned to Willie, who had all day been
insisting that papa should introduce her to the new game of the Showman.

Infinitely delighted to be relieved from the fear of the guitar, Willie hunted all who would
play into another room; whence they were to be summoned, one by one, back to the drawing-room
by the showman, Mr. Ferrars, who shrugged his shoulders at the task, but undertook it, and
first called for Mrs. Kendal.

She found him stationed before the red curtains, which were closely drawn, and her husband
and the three elder ladies sitting by as audience.

'Pray, madam, may I ask what animal you would desire to have exhibited to you, out of the vast
resources that my menagerie contains.  Choose freely, I undertake that whatever you may select,
you shall not be disappointed.'

'What, not if I were to ask for a black spider monkey?' said Albinia, to whom it was very charming
to be playing with Maurice again.

Mr. Kendal looked up in entertained curiosity, Mrs. Nugent smiled as if she thought the showman's
task impossible, and Winifred stretched out to gain a full view.

'A black spider monkey,' he said, slowly.  'Allow me to ask, madam, if you are acquainted with
the character of the beast?'

'It doesn't scratch, does it?' said she, quickly.

'That is for you to answer.'

'I never knew it do so.  It does chatter a great deal, but it never scratched that I knew of.'

'Nor I,' said the showman, 'since it was young.  Do you think age renders it graver and steadier?'

'Not a bit.  It is always frisky and troublesome, and I never knew it get a bit better as it
grew older.'

Winifred laughed outright.  Mr. Kendal's lips were parted by his smile.  'I wonder what sort
of a mother it would make?' said the showman.

'All animals are good mothers, of course.'

'I meant, is it a good disciplinarian?'

'If you mean cuffing its young one for playing exactly the same tricks as itself.'

'Exactly; and what would be the effect of letting it and its young one loose in a great scholar's
study?'

'There wouldn't be much study left.'

'And would it be for his good?'

'Really, Mr. Showman, you ask very odd questions.  Shall we try?' said Albinia, with a skip
backward, so as to lay her hand on the shoulder of her own great scholar, while the showman
drew back the curtain, observing--'I wish, ma'am, I could show "it and its young one" together,
but the young specimen is unfortunately asleep. Behold the original black spider monkey!'

There stood the monkey, with sunny brown locks round the laughing glowing face, and one white
paw still lying on the scholar's shoulder--while his face made no assurance needful that it
was very good for him!  The mirror concealed behind the curtains was the menagerie!  Albinia
clapped her hands with delight, and pronounced it the most perfect of games.

'And now let us have Willie,' said Mrs. Ferrars; 'it will conduce to the harmony of the next room.'

Willie, already initiated, hoped to puzzle papa as a platypus ornithoryncus, but was driven
to allow that it was a nondescript animal, neither fish, flesh, nor good red-herring, useless,
and very fond of grubbing in the mud; and if it were not at Botany Bay, it ought to be!  The
laughter that hailed his defence of its nose as 'well, nothing particular,' precipitated the
drawing up of the curtain and his apparition in the glass: and then Nora Nugent being called,
the inseparable Mary accompanied her, arm-in-arm, simpering an announcement that they liked
nothing so well as a pair of dear little love-birds.

Oh, unpitying papa! to draw from the unsuspicious Nora the admission that they were very dull
little birds, of no shape at all, who always sat hunched up in a corner without any fun, and
people said their love was all stupidity and pretence; in fact, if she had one she should call
it Silly Polly or Polly Silly!

To silence Willie's exultation in his sister's discomfiture, he was sent to fetch Lucy, whose
impersonation of an argus pheasant would not have answered well but for a suggestion of Albinia,
that she was eyes all over for any delinquency in school.  Ulick O'More, owning with a sigh
that he should like to see no beast better than a snipe, gave rise to much ingenuity by being
led to describe it as of a class migratory, hard to catch, food for powder, given to long bills.
There he guessed something, and stood on the defensive, but could not deny that its element
was bogs, but that it had been seen skimming over water meadows, and finding sustenance in
banks, whereupon the curtain rose.  Ulick rushed upon the battles of his nation, and was only
reduced to quiescence by the entrance of Sophy, who expressed a desire to see a coral worm,
apparently perplexing the showman, who, to gain time, hemmed, and said, 'A very unusual species,
ma'am,' which set all the younger ones in a double giggle, such as confused Sophy, to find
herself standing up, with every one looking at her, and listening for her words.  'I thought
you undertook for any impossibility in earth air or water.'

'Well, ma'am, do you take me for a mere mountebank?  But when ladies and gentlemen take such
unusual fancies--and for an animal that--you would not aver that it is often found from home?'

'Never, I should say.'

'Nor that it is accessible?'

'Certainly not.'

'And why is it so, ma'am?'

'Why,' said Sophy, bewildered into forgetting her natural history, 'it lives at the bottom
of the sea; that's one thing.'

'Where Truth lives,' said a voice behind.

'I beg to differ,' observed Albinia.  'Truth is a fresh water fish at the bottom of a well;
besides, I thought coral worms were always close to the surface.'

'But below it--not in everybody's view,' said Sophy--an answer which seemed much to the satisfaction
of the audience, but the showman insisted on knowing why, and whether it did not conceal itself.
'It makes stony caves for itself, out of sight,' said Sophy, almost doubting whether she spoke
correctly.  'Well, surely it does so.'

'Most surely,' said an acclamation so general that she did not like it.  If she had been younger,
she would have turned sulky upon the spot, and Mr. Ferrars almost doubted whether to bring
ont his final query.  'Pray, ma'am, do you think this creature out of reach in its self-made
cave, at the bottom--no, below the surface of the sea, would be popular enough to repay the
cost of procuring it.'

'Ah! that's too bad,' burst out the Hibernian tones.  'Why, is not the best of everything hidden
away from the common eye?  Out of sight--stony cave--It is the secret worker that lays the
true solid foundation, raises the new realms, and forms the precious jewels.' The torrent of
r's was irresistible!

'Police! order!' cried the showman.  'An Irish mob has got in, and there's an end of everything.'
So up went the curtain, and the polyp appeared, becoming rapidly red coral as she perceived
what the exhibition was, and why the politeness of the Green Isle revolted from her proclaiming
her own unpopularity.  But all she did was to turn gruffly aside, and say, 'It is lucky there
are no more ladies to come, Mr. Showman, or the mob would turn everything to a compliment.'

Gilbert's curiosity was directed to the Laughing Jackass, and with too much truth he admitted
that it took its tone from whatever it associated with, and caught every note, from the song
of the lark to the bray of the donkey; then laughed good-humouredly when the character was
fitted upon himself.

'That is all, is it not?' asked the showman.  'I may retire into private life.'

'Oh no,' cried Willie; 'you have forgotten Mr. Dusautoy.'

'I was afraid you had,' said Lucy, 'or you could not have left him to the last.'

'I am tempted to abdicate,' said Mr. Ferrars.

'No,' Albinia said.  'He must have his share, and no one but you can do it.  Where can he be?
the pause becomes awful!'

'Willie is making suggestions,' said Gilbert; 'his imagination would never stretch farther
than a lion.  It's what he thinks himself and no mistake.'

'He is big enough to be the elephant,' said little Mary.

'The half-reasoning!' said Ulick, softly; 'and I can answer for his trunk, I saw it come off
the omnibus.'

'Ladies and gentlemen, if you persist in such disorderly conduct, the exhibition will close,'
cried the showman, waving his wand as Willie trumpeted Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy in, and on the
demand what animal he wanted to see, twitched him as Flibbertigibbet did the giant warder,
and caused him to respond--'The Giraffe.'

'Has it not another name, sir?  A short or a long one, more or less syllables!'

'Camelopard.  A polysyllabic word, certainly,' said Algernon, looking with a puzzled expression
at the laughers behind; and almost imagining it possible that he could have made an error,
he repeated, 'Camel-le-o-pard.  Yes, it is a polysyllable'--as, indeed, he had added an unnecessary
syllable.

'Most assuredly,' said the showman, looking daggers at his suffocating sister.  'May I ask
you to describe the creature?'

'Seventeen feet from the crown to the hoof, but falls off behind,' said the accurate Mr. Dusautoy;
'beautiful tawny colour.'

'Nearly as good as a Lion,' added Gilbert; but Algernon, fancying the game was by way of giving
useful instruction to the children, went on in full swing.  'Handsomely mottled with darker
brown; a ruminating animal; so gentle that in spite of its size, none of my little friends
need be alarmed at its vicinity.  Inhabits the African deserts, but may be bred in more temperate
latitudes.  I myself saw an individual in the Jardin des Plantes, which was popularly said
never to bend its neck to the ground, but I consider this a vulgar delusion, for on offering
it food, it mildly inclined its head.'

'Let us hope the present specimen is equally condescending,' said Mr. Ferrars.

'Eh! what! I see myself!' said Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy, with a tone so inappreciably grand in
mystification, that the showman had no choice but to share the universal convulsion of laughter,
while Willie rolling on the floor with ecstasy, shouted, 'Yes, it is you that are the thing
with such a long name that it can't bend its head to the ground!'

'But too good-natured to be annoyed at folly,' said Mr. Ferrars, perceiving that it was no
sport to him.

'This is the way my mischievous uncle has served us all in turn,' said Lucy, advancing; 'we
have all been shown up, and there was mamma a monkey, and I an argus pheasant--'

'Ah! I see,' said the gentleman.  'These are your rural pastimes of the season.  Yes, I can
take my share in good part, just as I have pelted the masks at the Carnival.'

'Even a giraffe can bend his head and do at Rome as Rome does,' murmured Ulick.  But instead
of heeding the audacious Irishman, Algernon patronized the showman by thanks for his exhibition;
and then sitting down by Lucy, asked if he had ever told her of the tricks that he and il Principe
Odorico Moretti used to play at Ems on the old Baron Sprawlowsky, while Mr. Ferrars, leaning
over his sister's chair, said aside, 'I beg your pardon, Albinia; I should not have yielded
to Willie.  This "rural pastime" is only in season en famille.'

'Never mind, it served him right.'

'It may have served him right, but had we the right to serve him?'

'I forgive your prudence for the sake of your folly.  Could not Oxford have lessened his pomposity?'

'It comes too late,' said Maurice.

Before Ulick went to bed his pen and ink had depicted the entire caravan.  The love-birds were
pressed up together, with the individual features of the two young ladies, and completely little
parrots; the snipe ran along the bars of the cage, looking exactly like all the O'Mores.  The
monkey showed nothing but the hands, but one held Maurice, and the other was clenched as if
to cuff him, and grandest of all was, as in duty bound, Camelopardelis giraffa, thrown somewhat
backwards, with such a majestic form, such a stalking attitude, loftily ruminating face, and
legs so like the Cavendish Dusautoy's last new pair of trousers, that Albinia could not help
reserving it for the private delectation of his Aunt Fanny.

'It and its young one,' said Mr. Kendal, as he looked at her portrait; and the name delighted
him so much, that he for some time applied it with a smile whenever his wife gave him cause
to remember how much there was of the monkey in her composition.

It was the merriest Christmas ever known at Willow Lawn, and the first time there had been
anything of the atmosphere of family frolic and fun.  The lighting up of Sophy was one great
ingredient; hitherto mirth had been merely endured by her, whereas now, improved health and
spirits had made her take her share, amuse others and be amused, and cease to be hurt by the
jarring of chance words.  Lucy was lively as usual, but rather more excited than Albinia altogether
liked; she was doubly particular about her dress; more disdainful of the common herd, and had
a general air of exaltation that made Albinia rejoice when the Polysyllable, the horses, the
key-bugle, and genre painting disappeared from the Bayford horizon.

CHAPTER XX.

If the end of the vacation were a relief on Lucy's account, Albinia would gladly have lengthened
it on Gilbert's.  Letters from his tutor had disquieted his father; there had been an expostulation
followed by promises, and afterwards one of the usual scenes of argument, complaint, excuse,
lamentation, and wish to amend; but lastly, a murmur that it was no use to talk to a father
who had never been at the University, and did not know what was expected of a man.

The aspect of Oxford had changed in Albinia's eyes since the days of her brother.  Alma Mater
had been a vision of pealing bells, chanting voices, cloistered shades, bright waters--the
source of her most cherished thoughts, the abode of youth walking in the old paths of pleasantness
and peace; and she knew that to faithful hearts, old Oxford was still the same.  But to her
present anxious gaze it had become a field of snares and temptations, whither she had been
the means of sending one, unguarded and unstable.

Once under the influence of a good sound-hearted friend, he might have been easily led right,
but his intimacy with young Dusautoy seemed to cancel all hope of this, and to be like a rope
about his neck, drawing him into the same career, and keeping aloof all better influences.
Algernon, with his pride, pomposity, and false refinement, was more likely to run into ostentations
expenditure, than into coarse dissipation, and it might still be hoped that the two youths
would drag through without public disgrace; but this was felt to be a very poor hope by those
who felt each sin to be a fatal blot, and trembled at the self-indulgent way of life that might
be a more fatal injury than even the ban of the authorities.

She saw that the anxiety pressed heavily on Mr. Kendal, and though both shrank from giving
their uneasiness force by putting it into words, each felt that it was ever-present with the
other.  Mr. Kendal was deeply grieving over the effects, for the former state of ignorance
and apathy of the evils of which he had only recently become fully sensible.  Living for himself
alone, without cognizance of his membership in one great universal system, he had needed the
sense of churchmanship to make him act up to his duties as father, neighbour, citizen, and
man of property; and when aroused, he found that the time of his inaction had bound him about
with fetters.  A tone of mind had grown up in his family from which only Sophy had been entirely
freed; seeds of ineradicable evil had been sown, mischiefs had grown by neglect, abuses been
established by custom; and his own personal disadvantages, his mauvaise honte, his reserved,
apparently proud manner, his slowness of speech, dislike to interruption, and over-vehemence
when excited, had so much increased upon him, as, in spite of his efforts, to be serious hindrances.
Kind, liberal, painstaking, and conscientious as he had become, he was still looked upon as
hard, stern, and tyrannical.  His ten years of inertness had strewn his path with thorns and
briars, even beyond his own household; and when he looked back to his neglect of his son, he
felt that even the worst consequences would be but just retribution.

Once such feelings would have wrapt him in morbid gloom; now he strove against his disposition
to sit inert and hidden, he did his work manfully, and endeavoured not to let his want of spirits
sadden the household.

Nor was he insensible to the cheerful healthy atmosphere of animation which had diffused itself
there; and the bright discussions of the trifling interests of the day.  Ulick O'More was also
a care to him, which did him a great deal of good.

That young gentleman now lived at his lodgings, but was equally at home at Willow Lawn, and
his knock at the library door, when he wished to change a book, usually led to some 'Prometheus'
discussion, and sometimes to a walk, if Mr. Kendal thought him looking pale; or to dining and
to spending the evening.

His scrapes were peculiar.  He had thoroughly mastered his work, and his active mind wanted
farther scope, so that he threw himself with avidity into deeper studies, and once fell into
horrible disgrace for being detected with a little Plato on his desk.  Mr. Goldsmith nearly
gave him up in despair, and pronounced that he would never make a man of business.  He made
matters worse by replying that this was the best chance of his not being a man of speculation.
If he were allowed to think of nothing but money, he should speculate for the sake of something
to do!

Before Mr. Goldsmith had half recovered the shock, Mr. Dusautoy and Mr. Hope laid violent hands
upon young O'More for the evening school twice a week, which almost equally discomposed his
aunt.  She had never got over the first blow of Mr. Dusautoy's innovations, and felt as if
her nephew had gone over to the enemy.  She was doubly ungracious at the Sunday dinner, and
venomously critical of the choir's chanting, Mr. Hope's voice, and the Vicar's sermons.

The worst scrape came in March.  The Willow Lawn ladies were in the lower end of the garden,
which, towards the river, was separated from the lane that continued Tibb's Alley, by a low
wall surmounted by spikes, and with a disused wicket, always locked, and nearly concealed by
a growth of laurels; when out brake a horrible hullabaloo in that region of evil report, the
shouts and yells coming nearer, and becoming so distinct that they were about to retreat, when
suddenly a dark figure leapt over the gate, and into the garden, amid a storm of outcries.
As he disappeared among the laurels, Albinia caught up Maurice, Lucy screamed and prepared
to fly, and Sophy started forward, exclaiming, 'It is Ulick, mamma; his face is bleeding!'
But as he emerged, she retreated, for she had a nervous terror of the canine race, and in his
hand, at arm's length he held by the neck a yellow dog, a black pot dangling from its tail.

'Take care,' he shouted, as Albinia set down Maurice, and was running up to him; 'he may be mad.'

Maurice was caught up again, Lucy shrieked, and Sophy, tottering against an apple-tree, faintly
said, 'He has bitten you!'

'No, not he; it was only a stone,' said Ulick, as best he might, with a fast bleeding upper
lip.  'They were hunting the poor beast to death--I believe he's no more mad than I am--only
with the fright-- but best make sure.'

'Fetch some milk, Lucy,' said Albinia.  'Take Maurice with you.  No, don't take the poor thing
down to the river, he'll only think you are going to drown him.  Go, Maurice dear.'

Maurice safe, Albinia was able to find ready expedients after Sir Fowell Buxton's celebrated
example.  She brought Ulick the gardener's thick gauntlets from the tool-house, and supplied
him with her knife, with which he set the poor creature free from the instrument of torture,
and then let him loose, with a pan of milk before him, in the old-fashioned summer-house, through
the window of which he could observe his motions, and if he looked dangerous, shoot him.

Nothing could look less dangerous; the poor creature sank down on the floor and moaned, licked
its hind leg, and then dragged itself as if famished to the milk, lapped a little eagerly,
but lay down again whining, as if in pain.  Ulick and Albinia called to it, and it looked up
and tried to wag its tail, whining appealingly.  'My poor brute!' he cried, 'they've treated
you worse than a heathen.  That's all--let me see what I can do for you.'

'Yes, but yourself, Ulick,' said Albinia, as in his haste he took down his handkerchief from
his mouth; 'I do believe your lip is cut through!  You had better attend to that first.'

'No, no, thank you,' said Ulick, eagerly, 'they've broken the poor wretch's leg!' and he was
the next moment sitting on the summer-house floor, lifting up the animal tenderly, regardless
of her expostulation that the injured, frightened creature might not know its friends.  But
she did it injustice; it wagged its stumpy tail, and licked his fingers.

She offered to fetch rag for his surgery, and he farther begged for some slight bits of wood
to serve as splints, he and his brothers had been dog-doctors before.  As she hurried into
the house, Sophy, who had sunk on a sofa in the drawing-room, looking deadly pale, called out,
'Is he bitten?'

'No, no,' cried Albinia, hurrying on, 'the dog is all safe.  It has only got a broken leg.'

Maurice, with whom Lucy had all this time been fighting, came out with her to see the rest
of the adventure; and thought it very cruel that he was not permitted to touch the patient,
which bore the operation with affecting fortitude and gratitude, and was then consigned to
a basket lined with hay, and left in the summer-house, Mr. Kendal being known to have an almost
eastern repugnance to dogs.

Then Ulick had leisure to be conducted to the morning-room, and be rendered a less ghastly
spectacle, by some very uncomfortable sticking-plaster moustaches, which hardly permitted him
to narrate his battle distinctly.  He thought the boys, even of Tibb's Alley, would hardly
have ventured any violence after he had interfered, but for some young men who aught to have
known better; he fancied he had seen young Tritton of Robbles Leigh, and he was sure of an
insolent groom whom Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy, to the great vexation of his uncle, had recently
sent down with a horse to the King's Head.  They had stimulated the boys to a shout of Paddy
and a shower of stones, and Ulick expected credit for great discretion, in having fled instead
of fought.  'Ah! if Brian and Connel had but been there, wouldn't we have put them to the rout?'

Nothing would then serve him but going back to Tibb's Alley to trace the dog's history, and
meantime Lucy, from the end of the passage, beckoned to Albinia, and whispered mysteriously
that 'Sophy would not have any one know it for the world--but,' said Lucy, 'I found her absolutely
fainting away on the sofa, only she would not let me call you, and ordered that no one should
know anything about it.  But, mamma, there was a red-hot knitting-needle sticking out of the
fire, and I am quite sure that she meant if Ulick was bitten, to burn out the place.'

Albinia believed Sophy capable of both the resolution and its consequence; but she agreed with
Lucy that no notice should be taken, and would not seem aware that Sophy was much paler than usual.

The dog, as well as Ulick could make out, was a waif or stray, belonging to a gipsy deported
that morning by the police, and on whom its master's sins had been visited.  So without scruple
he carried the basket home to his lodgings, and on the way, had the misfortune to encounter
his uncle, while shirtfront, coat, and waistcoat were fresh from the muddy and bloody fray,
and his visage in the height of disfigurement.

Mr. Goldsmith looked on the whole affair as an insult to every Goldsmith of past ages!  A mere
street row!  He ordered Mr. More to his lodgings, and said be should hear from him to-morrow.
Ulick came down to Willow Lawn in the dark, almost considering himself as dismissed, not knowing
whether to be glad or sorry; and wanting to consult Mr. Kendal whether it would be possible
to work his way at college as Mr. Hope had done, or even wondering whether he might venture
to beg for a recommendation to 'Kendal and Kendal.'

Mr. Kendal was so strongly affected, that he took up his hat and went straight to Mr. Goldsmith,
'to put the matter before him in a true light.'

True light or false, it was intolerable in the banker's eyes, and it took a great deal of eloquence
to persuade him that his nephew was worth a second trial.  Fighting in Tibb's Alley over a
gipsy's dog, and coming back looking like a ruffian!  Mr. Goldsmith wished him no harm, but
it would be a disgrace to the concern to keep him on, and Miss Goldsmith, whom Mr. Kendal heartily
wished to gag, chimed in with her old predictions of the consequences of her poor sister's
foolish marriage.  The final argument, was Mr. Kendal's declaration of the testimonials with
which he would at once send him out to Calcutta, to take the situation once offered to his
own son.  No sooner did Mr. Goldsmith hear that his nephew had an alternative, than he promised
to be lenient, and finally dispatched a letter to U. More, Esquire, with a very serious rebuke,
but a promise that his conduct should be overlooked, provided the scandal were not repeated,
and he should not present himself at the bank till his face should be fit to be seen.

Mr. Kendal mounted him the next morning on Gilbert's horse, and sent him to Fairmead.  The
dog was left in charge of Bridget, who treated it with abundant kindness, but failed to obtain
the exclusive affection which the poor thing lavished upon its rescuer.  By the time Ulick
came home, it had arrived at limping upon three legs, and was bent on following him wherever
he went.  Disreputable and heinously ugly it was, of tawny currish yellow (whence it was known
as the Orange-man), with a bull-dog countenance; and the legs that did not limp were bandy.
Albinia called it the Tripod, but somehow it settled into the title of Hyder Ali, to which
it was said to 'answer' the most readily, though it would in fact answer anything from Ulick,
and nothing from any one else..

Ever at his heels, the 'brazen Tripod' contrived to establish an entrance at Willow Lawn; scratched
till Mr. Kendal would interrupt a 'Prometheus talk' to let him in at the library door; and
gradually made it a matter of course to come into the drawing-room, and repose upon Sophy's
flounces.

This was by way of compensation for his misadventures elsewhere.  He was always bringing Ulick
into trouble; shut or tie him up as he might, he was sure to reappear when least wanted.  He
had been at church, he had been in Miss Goldsmith's drawing-room, he had been found times without
number curled up under Ulick's desk.  Mr. Goldsmith growled hints about hanging him, and old
Mr. Johns, who really was fond of his bright young fellow clerk, gave grave counsel; but Ulick
only loved his protege the better, and after having exhausted an Irish vocabulary of expostulation,
succeeded in prevailing on him to come no farther than the street; except on very wet days,
when he would sometimes be found on the mat in the entry, looking deplorably beseeching, and
bringing on his master an irate, 'Here's that dog again!'

'Would that no one fell into worse scrapes,' sighed Mr. Dusautoy, when he heard of Ulick's
disasters with Hyder Ali, and it was a sigh that the house of Kendal re-echoed.

Nobody could be surprised when, towards the long vacation, tidings came to Bayford, that after
long forbearance on the part of the authorities, the insubordination and riotous conduct of
the two young men could be endured no longer.  It appeared that young Dusautoy, with his weak
head and obstinate will, had never attempted to bend to rules, but had taken every reproof
as an insult and defiance.  Young men had not been wanting who were ready to take advantage
of his lavish expenditure, and to excite his disdain for authorities.  They had promoted the
only wit he did understand, broad practical jokes and mischief; and had led him into the riot
and gambling to which he was not naturally prone.  Gilbert Kendal, with more sense and principle,
had been led on by the contagion around him, and at last an outrageous wine party had brought
matters to a crisis.  The most guilty were the most cunning, and the only two to whom the affair
could actually be brought home, were Dusautoy and Kendal.  The sentence was rustication, and
the tutor wrote to Mr. Dusautoy, as the least immediately affected, to ask him to convey the
intelligence to Mr. Kendal.

The vicar was not a man to shrink from any task, however painful, but he felt it the more deeply,
as, in spite of his partiality, he was forced to look on his own favourite Algernon as the
misleader of Gilbert; and when he overtook the sisters on his melancholy way down the hill,
he consulted them how their father would bear it.

'Oh! I don't know,' said Lucy; 'he'll be terribly angry.  I should not wonder if he sent Gilbert
straight off to India; should you, Sophy?'

'I hope he will do nothing in haste,' exclaimed Mr. Dusautoy.  'I do believe if those two lads
were but separated, or even out of such company, they would both do very well.'

'Yes,' exclaimed Lucy; 'and, after all, they are such absurd regulations, treating men like
schoolboys, wanting them to keep such regular troublesome hours.  Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy told
me that there was no enduring the having everything enforced.'

'If things had been enforced on poor Algernon earlier, this might never have been,' sighed
his uncle.

'I'm sure I don't see why papa should mind it so much,' continued Lucy.  'Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy
told me his friend Lord Reginald Raymond had been rusticated twice, and expelled at last.'

'What do you think of it, Sophy?' asked the vicar, anxiously.

'I don't feel as if any of us could ever look up again,' she answered very low.

'Why, no; not that exactly.  It is not quite the right way to take these things, Sophy,' said
Mr. Dusautoy.  'Boys may be very foolish and wrong-headed, without disgracing their family.'

Sophy did not answer--it was all too fresh and sore, and she did not find much consolation
in the number of youths whom Lucy reckoned up as having incurred the like penalty.  When they
entered the house, and Mr. Dusautoy knocked at the library door, she followed Lucy into the
garden, without knowing where she was going, and threw herself down upon the grass, miserable
at the pain which was being inflicted upon her father, and with a hardened resentful feeling,
between contempt and anger, against the brother, who, for very weakness, could so dishonour
and grieve him.  She clenched her hand in the intensity of her passionate thoughts and impulses,
and sat like a statue, while Lucy, from time to time, between the tying up of flowers and watering
of annuals, came up with inconsistent exhortations not to be so unhappy--for it was not expulsion--it
was sure to be unjust--nobody would think the worse of them because young men were foolish--all
men of spirit did get into scrapes--

It was lucky for Lucy that all this passed by Sophy's ear as unheeded as the babbling of the
brook.  She did not move, till roused by Ulick O'More, coming up from the bridge, telling that
he had met some Irish haymakers in the meadows, and saying he wanted to beg a frock for one
of their children.

'I think I can find you one,' said Lucy, 'if you will wait a minute; but don't go in, Mr. Dusautoy
is there.'

'Is anything the matter?' he exclaimed.

'Every one must soon know,' said Lucy; 'it is of no use to keep it back, Sophy.  Only my brother
and Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy have got into a scrape about a wine party, and are going to be rusticated.
But wait, I'll fetch the frock.'

Sophy had almost run away while her sister spoke, but the kind look of consternation and pity
on Ulick's face deterred her, he in soliloquy repeated, as if confounded by the greatness of
the misfortune, 'Poor Gilbert!'

'Poor Gilbert!' burst from Sophy in irritation at misplaced sympathy; 'I thought it would be
papa and mamma you cared for!'

'With reason,' returned Ulick, 'but I was thinking how it must break his heart to have pained
such as they.'

'I wish he would feel it thus,' exclaimed Sophy; 'but he never will!'

'Oh! banish that notion, Sophy,' cried Ulick, recoiling at the indignation in her dark eyes,
'next to grieving my mother, I declare nothing could crush me like meeting a look such as that
from a sister of mine.'

'How can I help it?' she said, reserve breaking down in her vehemence, 'when I think how much
papa has suffered--how much Gilbert has to make up to him--how mamma took him for her own--how
they have borne with him, and set their happiness on him, and yielded to his fancies, only
for him to disappoint them so cruelly, and just because he can't say No!  I hope he wont come
home; I shall never know how to speak to him !'

'But all that makes it so much the worse for him,' said Ulick, in a tone of amazement.

'Yes, you can't understand,' she answered; 'if he had had one spark of feeling like you, he
would rather have died than have gone on as he has done.'

'Surely many a man may be overtaken in a fault, and never be wrong at heart,' said Ulick. 
'There's many a worse sin than what the world sets a blot upon, and I believe that is just
why homes were made.'

Lucy came back with the frock, and Ulick, thanking her, sped away; while Sophy slowly went
upstairs and hid herself on her couch.  For a woman to find a man thinking her over-hard and
severe, is sure either to harden or to soften her very decidedly, and it was a hard struggle
which would be the effect.  There was an inclination at first to attribute his surprise to
the lax notions and foolish fondness of his home, where no doubt far worse disorders than Gilbert's
were treated as mere matters of course.  But such strong pity for the offender did not seem
to accord with this; and the more she thought, the more sure she became that it was the fresh
charity and sweetness of an innocent spirit, 'believing all things,' and separating the fault
from the offender.  His words had fallen on her ear in a sense beyond what he meant.  Pride
and uncharitable resentment might be worse sins than mere weakness and excess.  She thought
of the elder son in the parable, who, unknowing of his brother's temptation and sorrow, closed
his heart against his return; and if her tears would have come, she would have wept that she
could not bring herself to look on Gilbert otherwise than as the troubler of her father's peace.

When her mother at last came upstairs, she only ventured to ask gently, 'How does papa bear it?'

'It did not come without preparation,' was the answer; 'and at first we were occupied with
comforting Mr. Dusautoy, who takes to himself all the shame his nephew will not feel, for having
drawn poor Gilbert into such a set.'

'And papa?' still asked Sophy.

'He is very quiet, and it is not easy to tell.  I believe it was a great mistake, though not
of his making, to send Gilbert to Oxford at all, and I doubt whether he will ever go back again.

'Oh, mamma, not conquer this, and live it down!' cried Sophy; but then changing, she sighed
and said, 'If he would--'

'Yes, a great deal depends upon how he may take this, and what becomes of Algernon Dusautoy;
though I suppose there is no lack of other tempters.  Your papa has even spoken of India again;
he still thinks he would be more guarded there, but all depends on the spirit in which we find
him.  One thing I hope, that I shall leave it all to his father's judgment, and not say one word.'

The next post brought a penitent letter from Gilbert, submitting completely to his father;
only begging that he might not see any one at home until he should have redeemed his character,
and promising to work very hard and deny himself all relaxation if he might only go to a tutor
at a distance.

This did not at all accord with Mr. Kendal's views.  He had an unavowed distrust of Gilbert's
letters, he did not fancy a tutor thus selected, and believed the boy to be physically incapable
of the proposed amount of study.  So he wrote a very grave but merciful summons to Willow Lawn.

Albinia went to meet the delinquent at Hadminster, and was struck by the different deportment
of the two youths.  Algernon Dusautoy, whose servant had met him, sauntered up to her as if
nothing had happened, carelessly hoped all were well at Bayford, and, in spite of her exceeding
coldness, talked on with perfect ease upon the chances of a war with Russia, and had given
her three or four maxims, before Gilbert came up with the luggage van, with a bag in his hand,
and a hurried bewildered manner, unable to meet her eye.  He handed her into the carriage,
seated himself beside her, and drove off without one unnecessary word, while Algernon, mounting
his horse, waved them a disengaged farewell, and cantered on.  Albinia heard a heavy sigh,
and saw her companion very wan and sorrowful, dejection in every feature, in the whole stoop
of his figure, and in the nervous twitch of his hands.  The contrast gave an additional impulse
to her love and pity, and the first words she said were, 'Your father is quite ready to forgive.'

'I knew he would be so,' he answered, hardly able to command his voice; 'I knew you would all
be a great deal too kind to me, and that is the worst of all.'

'No, Gilbert, not if it gives you resolution to resist the next time.'

He groaned; and it was not long before she drew from him a sincere avowal of his follies and
repentance.  He had been led on by assurances that 'every one' did the like, by fear of betraying
his own timidity, by absurd dread of being disdained as slow; all this working on his natural
indolence and love of excitement, had combined to involve him in habits which had brought on
him this disgrace.  It was a hopeful sign that he admitted its justice, and accused no one
of partiality; the reprimand had told upon him, and he was too completely struck down even
to attempt to justify himself; exceedingly afraid of his father, and only longing to hide himself.
Such was his utter despair, that Albinia had no scruples in encouraging him, and assuring him
with all her heart, that if taken rightly, the shock that brought him to his senses, might
be the blessing of his life.  He did not take comfort readily, though soothed by her kindness;
he could not get over his excessive dread of his father, and each attempt at reassurance fell
short.  At last it came out that the very core of his misery was this, that he had found himself
for part of the journey, in the same train with Miss Durant and two or three children.  He
could not tell her where he was going nor why, and he had leant back in the carriage, and watched
her on the platform by stealth, as she moved about, 'lovelier and more graceful than ever!'
but how could he present himself to her in his disgrace and misery?  'Oh, Mrs. Kendal, I forgive
my father, but my life was blighted when I was cut off from her!'

'No, Gilbert, you are wrong.  There is no blighting in a worthy, disinterested attachment.
To be able to love and respect such a woman is a good substantial quality in you, and ought
to make you a higher and better man.'

Gilbert turned round a face of extreme amazement.  'I thought,' he said, 'I thought you--'
and went no farther.

'I respect your feeling for her more than when it was two years younger,' she said; 'I should
respect it doubly if instead of making you ashamed, it had saved you from the need of shame.'

'Do you give me any hope?' cried Gilbert, his face gleaming into sudden eager brightness.

'Things have not become more suitable,' said Albinia; and his look lapsed again into despondency;
but she added, 'Each step towards real manhood, force of character, and steadiness, would give
you weight which might make your choice worth your father's consideration, and you worth that
of Genevieve.'

'Oh! would you but have told me so before!'

'It was evident to your own senses,' said Albinia; and she thought of the suggestion that Sophy
had made.

'Too late! too late!' sighed Gilbert.

'No, never too late!  You have had a warning; you are very young, and it cannot be too late
for winning a character, and redeeming the time!'

'And you tell me I may love her!' repeated Gilbert, so intoxicated with the words, that she
became afraid of them.

'I do not tell you that you may importune her, or disobey your father.  I only tell you that
to look up and work and deny yourself, in honour of one so truly noble, is one of the best
and most saving of secondary motives.  I shall honour you, Gilbert, if you do so use it as
to raise and support you, though of course I cannot promise that she can be earned by it, and
even that motive will not do alone, however powerful you may think it.'

Neither of them said more, but Gilbert sighed heavily several times, and would willingly have
checked their homeward speed.  He grew pale as they entered the town, and groaned as the gates
swung back, and they rattled over the wooden bridge.  It was about four o'clock, and he said,
hurriedly, as with a sort of hope, 'I suppose they are all out.'

He was answered by a whoop of ecstasy, and before he was well out of the carriage, he was seized
by the joyous Maurice, shouting that he had been for a ride with papa, without a leading rein.
Happy age for both, too young to know more than that the beloved playfellow was at home again!

Little Albinia studied her brother till the small memory came back, and she made her pretty
signs for the well-remembered dancing in his arms.  From such greetings, Gilbert's wounded
spirit could not shrink, much as he dreaded all others; and, carrying the baby and preceded
by Maurice, while he again muttered that of course no one was at home, he went upstairs.

Albinia meantime tapped at the library door.  She knew Mr. Kendal to be there, yearning to
forgive, but thinking it right to have his pardon sought; and she went in to tell him of his
son's keen remorse, and deadly fear.  Displeased and mournful, Mr. Kendal sighed.  'He has
little to fear from me, would he but believe so!  He ought to have come to me, but--'

That 'but' meant repentance for over-sternness in times past.

'Let me send him to you.'

'I will come,' said Mr. Kendal, willing to spare his son the terror of presenting himself.

There was a pretty sight in the morning-room.  Gilbert was on the floor with the two children,
Maurice intent on showing how nearly little Albinia could run alone, and between ordering and
coaxing, drawing her gently on; her beautiful brown eyes opened very seriously to the great
undertaking, and her round soft hands, with a mixture of confidence and timidity, trusted within
the sturdy ones of her small elder, while Gilbert knelt on one knee, and stretched out a protecting
arm, really to grasp the little one, if the more childish brother should fail her, and his
countenance, lighted up with interest and affection, was far more prepossessing than when so
lately it had been, full of cowering, almost abject apprehension.

Was it a sort of instinctive feeling that the little sister would be his best shelter, that
made him gather the child into his arms, and hold her before his deeply blushing face as he
rose from the floor? She merrily called out, 'Papa!'  Maurice loudly began to recount her exploits,
and thus passed the salutation, at the end of which Gilbert found that his father was taking
the little one from him, and giving her to her mother, who carried her away, calling Maurice
with her.

'Have you nothing to say to me?' said Mr. Kendal, after waiting for some moments; but as Gilbert
only looked up to him with a piteous, scared, uncertain glance, be added; 'You need not fear
me; I believe you have erred more from weakness than from evil inclinations, and I trust in
the sincerity of your repentance.'

These kind words softened Gilbert; he assured his father of his thanks for his kindness, no
one could grieve more deeply, or be more anxious to atone in any possible manner for what he
had unwittingly done.

'I believe you, Gilbert,' said his father; 'but you well know that the only way of atoning
for the past, as well as of avoiding such wretchedness and disgrace for the future, is to show
greater firmness.'

'I know it is,' said Gilbert, sorrowfully.

'I cannot look into your heart,' added Mr. Kendal.  'I can only hope and believe that your
grief for the sin is as deep, or deeper, than that for the public stigma, for which comparatively,
I care little.'

Gilbert exclaimed that so indeed it was, and this was no more than the truth.  Out of sight
of temptation, and in that pure atmosphere, the loud revel and coarse witticisms that had led
him on, were only loathsome and disgusting, and made him miserable in the recollection.

'I am ready to submit to anything,' he added, fervently.  'As long as you forgive me, I am
ready to bear anything.'

'I forgive you from my heart,' said Mr. Kendal, warmly.  'I only wish to consider what may
be most expedient for you.  I should scarcely like to send you back to Oxford to retrieve your
character, unless I were sure that you would be more resolute in resisting temptation. No,
do not reply; your actions during this time of penance will be a far more satisfactory answer
than any promises.  I had thought of again applying to your cousin John, to take you into his
bank, though you could not now go on such terms as you might have done when there was no error
in the background, and I still sometimes question whether it be not the safer method.'

'Whatever you please,' said Gilbert; 'I deserve it all.'

'Nay, do not look upon my decision, whatever it may be, as punishment, but only as springing
from my desire for your real welfare.  I will write to your cousin and ask whether he still
has a vacancy, but without absolutely proposing you to him, and we will look on the coming
months as a period of probation, during which we may judge what may be the wisest course. 
I will only ask one other question, Gilbert, and you need not be afraid to answer me fully
and freely.  Have you any debts at Oxford?'

'A few,' stammered Gilbert, with a great effort.

'Can you tell me to whom, and the amount?'

He tried to recollect as well as he could, while completely frightened and confused by the
gravity with which his father was jotting them down in his pocket-book.

'Well, Gilbert,' he concluded, 'you have dealt candidly with me, and you shall never have cause
to regret having done so.  And now we will only feel that you are at home, and dwell no longer
on the cause that has brought you.  Come out, and see what we have been doing in the meadow.'

Gilbert seemed more overthrown and broken down by kindness than by reproof.  He hardly exerted
himself even to play with Maurice, or to amuse his grandmother; and though his sisters treated
him as usual, he never once lifted up his eyes to meet Sophy's glance, and scarcely used his voice.

Nothing could be more disarming than such genuine sorrow; and Sophy, pardoning him with all
her heart, and mourning for her past want of charity, watched him, longing to do something
for his comfort, and to evince her tenderness; but only succeeded in encumbering every petty
service or word of intercourse with a weight of sad consciousness.

CHAPTER XXI.

'I had almost written to ask your pardon,' said Mrs. Dusautoy, as Albinia entered her drawing-room
on the afternoon following.  'I should like by way of experiment to know what would put that
boy out of countenance.  He listened with placid graciousness to his uncle's lecture, and then
gave us to understand that he was obliged for his solicitude, and that there was a great deal
of jealousy and misrepresentation at Oxford; but he thought it best always to submit to authorities,
however unreasonable.  And this morning, after amiably paying his respects to me, he said he
was going to inquire for Gilbert.  I intimated that Willow Lawn was the last place where he
would be welcome, but he was far above attending to me.  Did Gilbert see him?'

'Gilbert was in the garden with us when we were told he was in the house.  Poor fellow, he
shuddered, and looked as if he wanted me to guard him, so I sent him out walking with Maurice
while I went in, and found Lucy entertaining the gentleman.  I made myself as cold and inhospitable
as I could, but I am afraid he rather relishes a dignified retenue.'

'Poor boy!  I wonder what on earth is to be done with him.  I never before knew what John's
love and patience were.'

'Do you think he will remain here?'

'I cannot tell; we talk of tutors, but John is really, I believe, happier for having him here,
and besides one can be sure the worst he is doing is painting a lobster.  However, much would
depend on what you and Mr. Kendal thought.  If he and Gilbert were doing harm to each other,
everything must give way.'

'If people of that age will not keep themselves out of harm's way, nobody can do it for them,'
said Albinia, 'and as long as Gilbert continues in his present mood, there is more real separation
in voluntarily holding aloof, than if they were sent far apart, only to come together again
at college.'

Gilbert did continue in the same mood.  The tender cherishing of his home restored his spirits;
but he was much subdued, and deeply grateful, as he manifested by the most eager and affectionate
courtesy, such as made him almost the servant of everybody, without any personal aim or object,
except to work up his deficient studies, and to avoid young Dusautoy.  He seemed to cling to
his family as his protectors, and to follow the occupations least likely to lead to a meeting
with the Polysyllable; he was often at church in the week, rode with his father, went parish
visiting with the ladies, and was responsible when Maurice fished for minnows in the meadows.
Nothing could be more sincerely desirous to atone for the past and enter on a different course,
and no conduct could be more truly humble or endearing.

The imaginary disdain of Ulick O'More was entirely gone, and perceiving that the Irishman's
delicacy was keeping him away from Willow Lawn, Gilbert himself met him and brought him home,
in the delight of having heard of a naval cadetship having been offered to his brother, and
full of such eager joy as longed for sympathy.

'Happy fellow!' Gilbert murmured to himself.

Younger in years, more childish in character, poor Gilbert had managed to make his spirit world-worn
and weary, compared with the fresh manly heart of the Irishman, all centered in the kindred
'points of Heaven and home,' and enjoying keenly, for the very reason that he bent dutifully
with all his might to a humble and uncongenial task.

Yet somehow, admire and esteem as he would, there arose no intimacy or friendship between Gilbert
and Ulick; their manners were frank and easy, but there was no spontaneous approach, no real
congeniality, nor exchange of mind and sympathy as between Ulick and Mr. Kendal. Albinia had
a theory that the friendship was too much watched to take; Sophy hated herself for the recurring
conviction that 'Gilbert was not the kind of stuff,' though she felt day by day how far he
excelled her in humility, gentleness, and sweet temper.

When the Goldsmiths gave their annual dinner-party, Albinia felt a sudden glow at the unexpected
sight of Ulick O'More.

'I am only deputy for the Orange man,' he said; 'it is Hyder Ali who ought to be dining here!
Yes, it is his doing, I'd back him against any detective!'

'What heroism have you been acting together?'

'We had just given Farmer Martin L120 in notes, when as he went out, we heard little Hyder
growling and giving tongue, and a fellow swearing as if he was at the fair of Monyveagh, and
the farmer hallooing thieves.  I found little Hyder had nailed the rascal fast by the leg,
just as he had the notes out of the farmer's pouch.  I collared him, Johns ran for the police,
and the rascal is fast.'

'What a shame to cheat Mr. Kendal of the committal.'

'The policeman said he was gone out, so we had the villain up to the Admiral with the greater
satisfaction, as he was a lodger in one of the Admiral's pet public-houses in Tibb's Alley.'

'Ah, when Gilbert is of age,' said Albinia, 'woe to Tibb's!  So you are a testimonial to the
Tripod?'

'So I suspect, for I found an invitation when I came home, I would have run down to tell you,
but I had been kept late, and one takes some getting up for polite society.'

There was a great deal of talk about Hyder's exploit, and some disposition to make Mr. O'More
the hero of the day; but this was quickly nipped by his uncle's dry shortness, and the superciliousness
with which Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy turned the conversation to the provision of pistols, couriers,
and guards, for travelling through the Abruzzi.  The polysyllabic courage, and false alarms
on such a scale, completely eclipsed a real pick-pocket, caught by a gipsy's cur and a banker's
clerk.

Not that Ulick perceived any disregard until later in the evening, when the young Kendals arrived,
and of course he wanted each and all to hear of his Tripod's achievement.  He met with ready
attention from Sophy and Gilbert, who pronounced that as the cat was to Whittington, so was
Hyder to O'More; but when in his overflowing he proceeded to Lucy, she had neither eyes nor
ears for him, and when the vicar told her Mr. O'More was speaking to her, she turned with an
air of petulance, so that he felt obliged to beg her pardon and retreat.

The Bayford parties never lasted later than a few minutes after ten, but when once Mr. Cavendish
Dusautoy and Miss Kendal had possession of the piano and guitar, there was no conclusion. 
Song succeeded song, they wanted nothing save their own harmony, and hardly waited for Miss
Goldsmith's sleepy thanks.  The vicar hated late hours, and the Kendals felt every song a trespass
upon their hosts, but the musicians had their backs to the world, and gave no interval, so
that it was eleven o'clock before Mr. Kendal, in desperation, laid his hand on his daughter,
and barbarously carried her off.

The flirtation was so palpable, that Albinia mused on the means of repressing it; but she believed
that to remonstrate, would only be to give Lucy pleasure, and held her peace till a passion
for riding seized upon the young lady.  The old pony had hard service between Sophy's needs
and Maurice's exactions, but Lucy's soul soared far above ponies, and fastened upon Gilbert's
steed.

'And pray what is Gilbert to ride?'

'Oh! papa does not always want Captain, or Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy would lend him Bamfylde.'

'Thank you,' returned Gilbert, satirically.

Next morning Lucy, radiant with smiles, announced that all was settled.  Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy's
Lady Elmira would be brought down for her to try this afternoon, so Gilbert might keep his
own horse and come too, which permission he received with a long whistle and glance at Mrs.
Kendal, and then walked out of the room.

'How disobliging!' said Lucy.  'Well then, Sophy, you must make your old hat look as well as
you can, for I suppose it will not quite do to go without anyone.'

Sophy, like her brother, looked at Mrs. Kendal, and with an eye of indignant appeal and entreaty,
while Albinia's countenance was so full of displeasure, that Lucy continued earnestly, 'O,
mamma, you can't object.  You used to go out riding with papa when he was at Colonel Bury's.'

'Well, Lucy!' exclaimed her sister, 'I did not think even you capable of such a comparison.'

'It's all the same,' said Lucy tartly, blushing a good deal.

Sophy leapt up to look at her, and Albinia trying to be calm and judicious, demanded, 'What
is the same as what?'

'Why, Algernon and me,' was the equally precise reply.

In stately horror, Sophy rose and seriously marched away, leaving, by her look and manner,
a species of awe upon both parties, and some seconds passed ere, with crimson blushes, Albania
ventured to invite the dreaded admission, by demanding, 'Now, Lucy, will you be so good as
to tell me the meaning of this extraordinary allusion?'

'Why, to be sure--I know it was very different.  Papa was so old, and there were us,' faltered
Lucy, 'but I meant, you would know how it all is--how those things--'

'Stop, Lucy, am I to understand by those things, that you wish me to believe you and Mr. Cavendish
Dusautoy are on the game terms as--No, I can't say it.'

'I don't know what you mean,' said Lucy, growing frightened, 'I never thought there could be
such an uproar about my just going out riding.'

'You have led me to infer so much more, that it becomes my duty to have an explanation, at
least,' she added, thinking this sounded cold, 'I should have hoped you would have given me
your confidence.'

'O, but you always would make game of him!' cried Lucy.

'Not now; this is much too serious, if you have been led to believe that his attentions are
not as I supposed, because you are the only girl about here whom he thinks worthy of his notice.'

'It's a great deal more,' said Lucy, with more feeling and less vanity than had yet been apparent.

'And what has he been making you think, my poor child?' said Albinia. 'I know it is very distressing,
but it would be more right and safe if I knew what it amounts to.'

'Not much after all,' said Lucy, her tone implying the reverse, and though her cheeks were
crimson, not averse to the triumph of the avowal, nor enduring as much embarrassment as her
auditor, 'only he made me sure of it--he said--(now, mamma, you have made me, so I must) that
he had changed his opinion of English beauty--you know, mamma.  And another time he said he
had wandered Europe over to--to find loveliness on the banks of the Baye.  Wasn't it absurd?
And he says he does not think it half so much that a woman should be accomplished herself,
as that she should be able to appreciate other people's talents--and once he said the Principessa
Bianca di Moretti would be very much disappointed.'

'Well, my dear,' said Albinia, kindly putting her arm round Lucy's waist, 'perhaps by themselves
the things did not so much require to be told.  I can hardly blame you, and I wish I had been
more on my guard, and helped you more.  Only if he seems to care so little about disappointing
this lady might he not do the same by you?'

'But she's an Italian, and a Roman Catholic,' exclaimed Lucy.

Albinia could not help smiling, and Lucy, perceiving that this was hardly a valid excuse for
her utter indifference towards her Grandison's Clementina, continued, 'I mean--of course there
was nothing in it.'

'Very possibly; but how would it be, if by-and-by he told somebody that Miss Kendal would be
very much disappointed?'

'O, mamma,' cried Lucy, hastily detaching herself, 'you don't know!'

'I cannot tell, my poor Lucy,' said Albinia.  'I fear there must be grief and trouble any way,
if you let yourself attend to him, for you know, even if he were in earnest, it would not be
right to think of a person who has shown so little wish to be good.'

Lucy stood for a few moments before the sense reached her mind, then she dropped into a chair,
and exclaimed,

'I see how it is!  You'll treat him as grandpapa treated Captain Pringle, but I shall break
my heart, quite!' and she burst into tears.

'My dear, your father and I will do our best for your happiness, and we would never use concealment.
Whatever we do shall be as Christian people working together, not as tyrants with a silly girl.'

Lucy was pleased, and let Albinia take her hand.

'Then I will write to decline the horse.  It would be far too marked.'

'But oh, mamma! you wont keep him away!'

'I shall not alter our habits unless I see cause.  He is much too young for us to think seriously
of what he may have said; and I entreat you to put it out of your mind, for it would be very
sad for you to fix your thoughts on him, and then find him not in earnest, and even if he were,
you know it would be wrong to let affection grow up where there is no real dependence upon
a person's goodness.'

The kindness soothed Lucy, and though she shed some tears, she did not resist the decision.
Indeed she was sensible of that calm determination of manner, which all the family had learnt
to mean that the measures thus taken were unalterable, whereas the impetuous impulses often
were reversed.

Many a woman's will is like the tide, ever fretting at the verge of the boundary, but afraid
to overpass it, and only tempting the utmost limit in the certainty of the recall, and Lucy
perhaps felt a kind of protection in the curb, even while she treated it as an injury.  She
liked to be the object of solicitude, and was pleased with Albinia's extra kindness, while,
perhaps, there was some excitement in the belief that Algernon was missing her, so she was
particularly amenable, and not much out of spirits.

The original Meadows character, and Bayford breeding, had for a time been surmounted by Albinia's
influence and training; but so ingrain was the old disposition, that a touch would at once
re-awaken it, and the poor girl was in a neutral state, coloured by whichever impression had
been most recent.  Albinia's hopes of prevailing in the end increased when Mrs. Dusautoy told
her, with a look of intelligence, that Algernon was going to stay with a connexion of his mother,
a Mr. Greenaway, with six daughters, very stylish young ladies.

Six stylish young ladies!  Albinia could have embraced them all, and actually conferred a cordial
nod on Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy when she met him on the way home.

But as she entered the house, so ominous a tone summoned her to the library, that she needed
not to be told that Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy had been there.

'I told him,' said Mr. Kendal, 'that he was too young for me to entertain his proposal, and
I intimated that he had character to redeem before presenting himself in such capacity.'

'I hope you made the refusal evident to his intellect.'

'He drove me to be more explicit than I intended.  I think he was astonished.  He stared at
me for full three minutes before he could believe in the refusal.  Poor lad, it must be real
attachment, there could be no other inducement.'

'And Lucy is exceedingly pretty.'

Mr. Kendal glanced at the portrait over the mantelpiece smiled sadly, and shook his head.

'Poor dear,' continued Albinia, 'what a commotion there will be in her head; but she has behaved
so well hitherto, that I hope we may steer her safely through, above all, if one of the six
cousins will but catch him in the rebound!  Have you spoken to her?'

'Is it necessary?'

'So asked her grandfather,' said Albinia, smiling, as he, a little out of countenance, muttered
something of 'foolish affair--mere child--and turn her head--'

'That's done!' said Albinia, 'we have only to try to get it straight. Besides, it would hardly
be just to let her think he had meant nothing, and I have promised to deal openly with her,
otherwise we can hardly hope for plain dealing from her.'

'And you think it will be a serious disappointment?'

'She is highly flattered by his attention, but I don't know how deep it may have gone.'

'I wish people would let one's daughters alone!' exclaimed Mr. Kendal.  'You will talk to her
then, Albinia, and don't let her think me more harsh than you can help, and come and tell me
how she bears it.'

'Won't you speak to her yourself?'

'Do you think I must?' he said, reluctantly; 'you know so much better how to manage her.'

'I think you must do this, dear Edmund,' she said, between decision and entreaty.  'She knows
that I dislike the man, and may fancy it my doing it she only hears it at second hand.  If
you speak, there will be no appeal, and besides there are moments when the really nearest should
have no go-betweens.'

'We were not very near without you,' he said.  'If it were Sophy, I should know better what
to be about.'

'Sophy would not put you in such a fix.'

'So I have fancied--' he paused, smiling, while she waited in eager curiosity, such as made
him finish as if ashamed.  'I have thought our likings much the same.  Have you never observed
what I mean?'

'Oh! I never observe anything.  I did not find out Maurice and Winifred till he told me.  Who
do you think it is?  I always thought love would be the making of Sophy.  I see she is another
being.  What is your guess, Mr. Hope?'

Mr. Kendal made a face of astonishment at such an improbable guess, and was driven into exclaiming,
'How could any one help thinking of O'More?'

'Oh! only too delightful!' cried Albinia.  'Why didn't I think of it--but then his way is so
free and cousinly with us all.'

'There may be nothing in it,' said Mr. Kendal; 'and under present circumstances it would hardly
be desirable.'

'If old Mr. Goldsmith acts as he ought,' continued Albinia, 'we should never lose our Sophy--and
what a son we should have! he has so exactly the bright temper that she needs.'

'Well, well, that is all in the clouds,' said Mr. Kendal.  'I wish the present were equally
satisfactory.'

'Ah, I had better call poor Lucy.'

'Come back with her, pray,' called Mr. Kendal, nervously.

Albinia regretted her superfluous gossip when Lucy appeared with eyes so sparkling, and cheeks
so flushed, that it was plain that she had been in all the miseries of suspense.  Her countenance
glowed with feeling, that lifted her beyond her ordinary doll-like prettiness. Albinia's heart
sank with compassion as she held her hand, and her father stood as if struck by something more
like the vision or his youth than he had been prepared for; each feeling that something genuine
was present, and respecting it accordingly.

'Lucy,' said Mr. Kendal, tenderly, 'I see I need not tell you why I have sent for you.  You
are very young, my dear, and you must trust us to care for your happiness.'

'Yes.'  Lucy looked up wistfully.

'This gentleman has some qualities such as may make him shine in the eyes of a young lady;
but it is our duty to look farther, and I am afraid I know nothing of him that could justify
me in trusting him with anything so precious to me.'

Lucy's face became full of consternation, her hand lay unnerved in Albinia'a pressure, and
Mr. Kendal turned his eyes from her to his wife, as he proceeded,

'I have seen so much wretchedness caused by want of religious principle, that even where the
morals appeared unblemished, I should feel no confidence where I saw no evidence of religion,
and I should consider it as positively wrong to sanction an engagement with such a person.
Now you must perceive that we have every means of forming an opinion of this young man, and
that he has given us no reason to think he would show the unselfish care for your welfare that
we should wish to secure.'

Albinia tried to make it comprehensible.  'You know, my dear, we have always seen him resolved
on his own way, and not caring how he may inconvenience his uncle and aunt.  We know his temper
is not always amiable, and differently as you see him, you must let us judge.'

Wrenching her hand away, Lucy burst into tears.  Her father looked at Albinia, as if she ought
to have saved him this infliction, and she began a little whispering about not distressing
papa, which checked the sobs, and enabled him to say, 'There, that's right, my dear, I see
you are willing to submit patiently to our judgment, and I believe you will find it for the
best.  We will do all in our power to help you, and make you happy,' and bending down he kissed
her, and left her to his wife.

In such family scenes, logic is less useful than the power of coming to a friendly conclusion;
Lucy's awe of her father was a great assistance, she was touched with his unwonted softness,
and did not apprehend how total was the rejection.  But what he was spared, was reserved for
Albinia.  There was a lamentable scene of sobbing and weeping, beyond all argument, and only
ending in physical exhaustion, which laid her on the bed all the rest of the day.

Gilbert and Sophy could not but be aware of the cause of her distress.  The former thought
it a great waste.

'Tell Lucy,' he said, 'that if she wishes to be miserable for life, she has found the best
way!  He is a thorough-bred tyrant at heart, pig-headed, and obstinate, and with the very worst
temper I ever came across.  Not a soul can he feel for, nor admire but himself.  His wife will
be a perfect slave.  I declare I would as soon sell her to Legree.'

Sophy's views of the gentleman were not more favourable, but she was in terror lest Lucy should
have a permanently broken heart, after the precedent of Aunt Maria.  And on poor Sophy fell
the misfortune of being driven up by grandmamma's inquiries, to own that the proposal had been
rejected.

Shade of poor dear Mr. Meadows, didst thou not stand aghast!  Five thousand a year refused!
Grandmamma would have had a fit if she had not conceived a conviction, that imparted a look
of shrewdness to her mild, simple old face.  Of course Mr. Kendal was only holding off till
the young man was a little older.  He could have no intention of letting his daughter miss
such a match, and dear Lucy would have her carriage, and be presented at court.

Sophy argued vehemently against this, and poor grandmamma, who had with difficulty been taught
worldly wisdom as a duty, and always thought herself good when she talked prudently, began
to cry.  Sophy, quite overcome, was equally distressing with her apologies; Albinia found them
both in tears, and Sophy was placed on the sick-list by one of her peculiar headaches of self-reproach.

It was a time of great perplexity.  Lucy cried incessantly, bursting out at every trifle, but
making no complaints, and submitting so meekly, that the others were almost as unhappy as herself.

She was first cheered by the long promised visit from Mrs. Annesley and Miss Ferrars.  Albinia
had now no fears of showing off home or children, and it was a great success.

The little Awk was in high beauty, and graciously winning, and Maurice's likeness to his Uncle
William enchanted the aunts, though they were shocked at his mamma's indifference to his constant
imperilling of life and limb, and grievously discomfited his sisters by adducing children who
talked French and read history, whereas he could not read d-o-g without spelling, and had peculiar
views as to b and d, p and q. However, if he could not read he could ride, and Mrs. Annesley
scarcely knew the extent of the favour she conferred, when she commissioned Gilbert to procure
for him a pony as his private property.

Miss Ferrars had not expected one of the thirty-six O'Mores to turn up here.  She gave some
good advice about hasty intimacies, and as it was received with a defence of the gentility
of the O'Mores, the two good ladies agreed that dear Albinia was quite a child still, not fit
for the care of those girls, and it would be only acting kindly to take Lucy to Brighton, and
show her something of the world, or Albinia would surely let her fall a prey to that Irish clerk.

They liked Lucy's pretty face and obliging ways, and were fond of having a young lady in their
house; they saw her looking ill and depressed, and thought sea air would be good for her, and
though Lucy fancied herself past caring for gaiety, and was very sorry to leave home and mamma,
she was not insensible to the refreshment of her wardrobe, and the excitement and honour of
the invitation.  At night she cried lamentably, and clung round Albinia'a neck, sobbing, 'Oh,
mamma, what will become of me without you?' but in the morning she went off in very fair spirits,
and Albinia augured hopefully that soon her type of perfection would be no longer Polysyllabic.
Her first letters were deplorable, but they soon became cheerful, as her mornings were occupied
by lessons in music and drawing, and her evenings in quiet parties among the friends whom the
aunts met at Brighton.  Aunt Gertrude wrote to announce that her charge had recovered her looks
and was much admired, and this was corroborated by the prosperous complacency of Lucy's style.
Albinia was more relieved than surprised when the letters dwindled in length and number, well
knowing that the Family Office was not favourable to leisure; and devoid of the epistolary
gift herself, she always wondered more at people's writing than at their silence, and scarcely
reciprocated Lucy's effusions by the hurried notes which she enclosed in the well-filled envelopes
of Gilbert and Sophy, who, like their father, could cover any amount of sheets of paper.

CHAPTER XXII.

'There!' cried Ulick O'More, 'I may wish you all good-bye.  There's an end of it.'

Mr. Kendal stood aghast.

'He's insulted my father and my family,' cried Ulick, 'and does he think I'll write another
cipher for him?'

'Your uncle?'

'Don't call him my uncle.  I wish I'd never set eyes on his wooden old face, to put the family
name and honour in the power of such as he.'

'What has he done to you?'

'He has offered to take me as his partner,' cried Ulick, with flashing eyes; and as an outcry
arose, not in sympathy with his resentment, he continued vehemently, 'Stay, you have not heard!
'Twas on condition I'd alter my name, leave out the O that has come down to me from them that
were kings and princes before his grandfathers broke stones on the road.'

'He offered to take you into partnership,' repeated Mr. Kendal.

'Do you think I could listen to such terms!' cried the indignant lad. 'Give up the O!  Why,
I would never be able to face my brothers!'

'But, Ulick--'

'Don't talk to me, Mr. Kendal; I wouldn't sell my name if you were to argue to me like Plato,
nor if his bank were the Bank of England.  I might as well be an Englishman at once.'

'Then this was the insult?'

'And enough too, but it wasn't all.  When I answered, speaking as coolly, I assure you, as
I'm doing this minute, what does he do, but call it a folly, and taunt us for a crew of Irish
beggars!  Beggars we may be, but we'll not be bought by him.'

'Well, this must have been an unexpected reception of such a proposal.'

'You may say that!  The English think everything may be bought with money!  I'd have overlooked
his ignorance, poor old gentleman, if he would not have gone and spoken of my O as vulgar.
Vulgar!  So when I began to tell him how it began from Tigearnach, the O'More of Ballymakilty,
that was Tanist of Connaught, in the time of King Mac Murrough, and that killed Phadrig the
O'Donoghoe in single combat at the fight of Shoch-knockmorty, and bit off his nose, calling
it a sweet morsel of revenge, what does he do but tell me I was mad, and that he would have
none of my nonsensical tales of the savage Irish. So I said I couldn't stand to hear my family
insulted, and then--would you believe it? he would have it that it was I that was insolent,
and when I was not going to apologize for what I had borne from him, he said he had always
known how it would be trying to deal with one of our family, no better than making a silk purse
out of a sow's ear. "And I'm obliged for the compliment," said I, quite coolly and politely,
"but no Irish pig would sell his ear for a purse;" and so I came away, quite civilly and reasonably.
Aye, I see what you would do, Mr. Kendal, but I beg with all my heart you won't.  There are
some things a gentleman should not put up with, and I'll not take it well of you if you call
it my duty to hear my father and his family abused.  I'll despise myself if I could.  You don't--'
cried he, turning round to Albinia.

'Oh, no, but I think you should try to understand Mr. Goldsmith's point of view.'

'I understand it only too well, if that would do any good.  Point of view--why, 'tis the farmyard
cock's point of view, strutting on the top of that bank of his own, and patronizing the free
pheasant out in the woods.  More fool I for ever letting him clip my wings, but he's seen the
last of me.  No, don't ask me to make it up.  It can't be done--'

'What can be done to the boy?' asked Albinia; 'how can he be brought to hear reason?'

'Leave him alone,' Mr. Kendal said, aside; while Ulick in a torrent of eager cadences protested
his perfect sanity and reason, and Mr. Kendal quietly left the room, again to start on a peace-making
mission, but it was unpromising, for Mr. Goldsmith began by declaring he would not hear a single
word in favour of the ungrateful young dog.

Mr. Kendal gathered that young O'More had become so valuable, and that cold and indifferent
as Mr. Goldsmith appeared, he had been growing so fond and so proud of his nephew, as actually
to resolve on giving him a share of the business, and dividing the inheritance which had hitherto
been destined to a certain Andrew Goldsmith, brought up in a relation's office at Bristol.
Surprised at his own graciousness, and anticipating transports of gratitude, his dismay and
indignation at the reception of his proposal were extreme, especially as he had no conception
of the offence he had given regarding the unfortunate O as a badge of Hibernianism and vulgarity.
'I put it to you, Mr. Kendal, as a sensible man, whether it would not be enough to destroy
the credit of the bank to connect it with such a name as that, looking like an Irish haymaker's.
I should be ashamed of every note I issued.'

'It is unlucky,' said Mr. Kendal, 'and a difficulty the lad could hardly appreciate, since
it is a good old name, and the O is a special mark of nobility.'

'And what has a banker to do with nobility?  Pretty sort of nobility too, at that dog-kennel
of theirs in Ireland, and his father, a mere adventurer if ever there lived one!  But I swore
when he carried off poor Ellen that his speculation should do him no good, and I've kept my
word.  I wish I hadn't been fool enough to meddle with one of the concern!  No, no, 'tis no
use arguing, Mr. Kendal, I have done with him!  I would not make him a partner, not if he offered
to change his name to John Smith!  I never thought to meet with such ingratitude, but it runs
in the breed!  I might have known better than to make much of one of the crew.  Yet it is a
pity too, we have not had such a clear-headed, trustworthy fellow about the place since young
Bowles died; he has a good deal of the Goldsmith in him when you set him to work, and makes
his figures just like my poor father.  I thought it was his writing the other day till I looked
at the date.  Clever lad, very, but it runs in the blood.  I shall send for Andrew Goldsmith.'

One secret of Mr. Kendal's power was that he never interrupted, but let people run themselves
down and contradict themselves; and all he observed was, 'However it may end, you have done
a great deal for him.  Even if you parted now, he would be able to find a situation.'

'Why--yes,' said Mr. Goldsmith, 'the lad knew nothing serviceable when he came, we had an infinity
of maggots about algebra and logarithms to drive out of his head; but now he really is nearly
as good an accountant as old Johns.'

'You would be sorry to part with him, and I cannot help hoping this may be made up.'

'You don't bring me any message!  I've said I'll listen to nothing.'

'No; the poor boy's feelings are far too much wounded,' said Mr. Kendal.  'Whether rightly
or wrongly, he fancies that his father and family have been slightingly spoken of, and he is
exceedingly hurt.'

'His father!  I'm sure I did not say a tenth part of what the fellow richly deserves.  If the
young gentleman is so touchy, he had better go back to Ireland again.'

Nothing more favourable could Mr. Kendal obtain, though he thought Mr. Goldsmith uneasy, and
perhaps impressed by the independence of his nephew's attitude.

It was an arduous office for a peace-maker, where neither party could comprehend the feelings
of the other, but on his return he found that Ulick had stormed himself into comparative tranquillity,
and was listening the better to the womankind, because they had paid due honour to the amiable
ancestral Tigearnach and all his guttural posterity, whose savage exploits and bloody catastrophes
acted as such a sedative, that by the time he had come down to Uncle Bryan of the Kaffir war,
he actually owned that as to the mighty 'O,' Mr. Goldsmith might have erred in sheer ignorance.

'After all,' said Albinia, 'U. O'More is rather personal in writing to a creditor'

'It might be worse,' said Ulick, laughing, 'if my name was John.  I. O'More would be a dangerous
confession.  But I'll not be come round even by your fun, Mrs. Kendal, I'll not part with my
father's name.'

'No, that would be base,' said Sophy.

'Who would wish to persuade you?' added Albinia.  'I am sure you are right in refusing with
your feelings; I only want you to forgive your uncle, and not to break with him.'

'I'd forgive him his ignorance, but my mother herself could not wish me to forgive what he
said of my father.'

'And how if he thinks this explosion needs forgiveness?'

'He must do without it,' said Ulick.  'No, I was cool, I assure you, cool and collected, but
it was not fit for me to stand by and hear my father insulted.'

Albinia closed the difficult discussion by observing that it was time to dress, and Sophy followed
her from the room burning with indignant sympathy.  'It would be meanly subservient to ask
pardon for defending a father whom he thought maligned,' said Albinia, and Sophy took exception
at the word 'thought.'

'Ah! of course he cannot be deceived!' said Albinia--but no sooner were the words spoken than
she was half-startled, half-charmed by finding they had evoked a glow of colour.

'How do you think it will end?' asked Sophy.

'I can hardly fancy he will not be forgiven, and yet--it might be better.'

'Yes, I do think he would get on faster in India,' said Sophy eagerly; 'he could do just as
Gilbert might have done.'

Was it possible for Albinia to have kept out of her eyes a significant glance, or to have disarmed
her lips of a merry smile of amused encouragement!  How she had looked she knew not, but the
red deepened on Sophy's whole face, and after one inquiring gaze from the eyes they were cast
down, and an ineffable brightness came over the expression, softening and embellishing.

'What have I done?' thought Albinia.  'Never mind--it must have been all there, or it would
not have been wakened so easily--if he goes they will have a scene first.'

But when Mr. Kendal came back he only advised Ulick to go to his desk as usual the next day,
as if nothing had happened.

And Ulick owned that, turn out as things might, he could not quit his work in the first ardour
of his resentment, and with a great exertion of Christian forgiveness, he finally promised
not to give notice of his retirement unless his uncle should repeat the offence.  This time
Albinia durst not look at Sophy.

Rather according to his friend's hopes than his own, he was able to report at the close of
the next day, that he had not 'had a word from his uncle, except a nod;' and thus the days
passed on, Andrew Goldsmith did not appear, and it became evident that he was to remain on
sufferance as a clerk.  Nor did Albinia and Sophy venture to renew the subject between themselves.
At first there was consciousness in their silence; soon their minds were otherwise engrossed.

Mrs. Meadows was suddenly stricken with paralysis, and was thought to be dying.  She recovered
partial consciousness in the course of the next day, but was constantly moaning the name of
her eldest and favourite granddaughter, and when telegraph and express train brought home the
startled and trembling Lucy, she was led at once to the sick bed--where at her name there was
the first gleam of anything like pleasure.

'And where have you been, my dear, this long time?'

'I've been at--at Brighton, dear grandmamma,' said Lucy, so much agitated as scarcely to be
able to recall the name, or utter the words.

'And--I say, my dear love,' said Mrs. Meadows, earnestly and mysteriously, 'have you seen him?'

Poor Lucy turned scarlet with distress and confusion, but she was held fast, and grandmamma
pursued, 'I'm sure he has not his equal for handsomeness and stateliness, and there must have
been a pair of you.'

'Dear grandmamma, we must let Lucy go and take off her things; she shall come back presently,
but she has had a long journey,' interposed Albinia, seeing her ready to sink into the earth.

But Mrs. Meadows had roused into eagerness, and would not let her go. 'I hope you danced with
him, dear,' she went on; 'and it's all nonsense about his being high and silent.  Your papa
is bent on it, and you'll live like a princess in India.'

'She takes you for your mother--she means papa, whispered Albinia, not without a secret flash
at once of indignation at perceiving how his first love had been wasted, yet of exultation
in finding that no one but herself had known how to love him; but poor Lucy, completely and
helplessly overcome, could only exclaim in a faltering voice: 'Oh, grandmamma, don't--' and
Albinia was forced to disengage her, support her out of the room, and leaving her to her sister,
hasten back to soothe the old lady, who had been terrified by her emotion. It had been a great
mistake to bring her in abruptly, when tired with her journey, and not fully aware what awaited
her.  But there was at that time reason to think all would soon be over, and Albinia was startled
and confused.

Albinia had hitherto been the only efficient nurse of the family. Sophy's presence seemed to
stir up instincts of the old wrangling habits, and the invalid was always fretful when left
to her, so that to her own exceeding distress she was kept almost entirely out of the sick room.

Lucy, on the other hand, was extremely valuable there, her bright manner and unfailing chatter
always amused if needful, and her light step and tender hand made her useful, and highly appreciated
by the regular nurse.

For the first few days, they watched in awe for the last dread summons, but gradually it was
impossible not to become in a manner habituated to the suspense, so that common things resumed
their interest, and though Sophy was pained by the incongruity, it could not have been otherwise
without the spirits and health giving way under the strain.  Nothing could be more trying than
to have the mind wrought up to hourly anticipation of the last parting, and then the delay,
without the reaction of recovery, the spirit beyond all reach of intercourse, and the mortal
frame languishing and drooping.  Mr. Kendal had from the first contemplated the possibility
of the long duration of such lingering, and did his utmost to promote such enlivenment and
change for the attendants as was consistent with their care of the sufferer.  They never dared
to be all beyond call at once, since a very little agitation might easily suffice to bring
on a fatal attack, and Albinia and Lucy were forced to share the hours of exercise and employment
between them, and often Albinia could not leave the house and garden at all.

Gilbert was an excellent auxiliary, and would devote many an hour to the cheering of the poor
shattered mind.  His entrance seldom failed to break the thread of melancholy murmurs, and
he had exactly the gentle, bright attentive manner best fitted to rouse and enliven. Nothing
could be more irreproachable, than his conduct, and his consideration and gentleness so much
endeared him, that he had never been so much at peace.  All he dreaded was the leaving what
was truly to him the sanctuary of home, he feared alike temptation and the effort of resistance
and could not bear to go away when his grandmother was in so precarious a state, and he could
so much lighten Mrs. Kendal's cares both by being with her, and by watching over Maurice. 
His parents were almost equally afraid of trusting him in the world; and the embodiment of
the militia for the county offered a quasi profession, which would keep him at home and yet
give him employment.  He was very anxious to be allowed to apply for a commission, and pleaded
so earnestly and humbly that it would be his best hope of avoiding his former errors, that
Mr. Kendal yielded, though with doubt whether it would be well to confine him to so narrow
a sphere.  Meantime the corps was quartered at Bayford, and filled the streets with awkward
louts in red jackets, who were inveterate in mistaking the right for the left, Gilbert had
a certain shy pride in his soldiership, and Maurice stepped like a young Field Marshal when
he saw his brother saluted.

Nothing had so much decided this step as the finding that young Dusautoy was to return to his
college after Easter.  He was at the Vicarage again, marking his haughty avoidance of the Kendal
family, and to their great joy, Lucy did not appear distressed, she was completely absorbed
in her grandmother, and shrank from all allusion to her lover.  Had the small flutter of vanity
been cured by a glimpse beyond her own corner of the world?

But soon Albinia became sensible of an alteration in Gilbert.  He had no sooner settled completely
into his new employment, than a certain restless dissatisfaction seemed to have possessed him.
He was fastidious at his meals, grumbled at his horse, scolded the groom, had fits of petulance
towards his brother, and almost neglected Mrs. Meadows.  No one could wonder at a youth growing
weary of such attendance, but his tenderness and amiability had been his best points, and it
was grievous to find them failing.  Albinia would have charged the alteration on his brother
officers, if they had not been a very steady and humdrum set, whose society Gilbert certainly
did not prefer.  She was more uneasy at finding that he sometimes saw Algernon Dusautoy, though
for Lucy's sake, he always avoided bringing his name forward.

A woman was ill in the bargeman's cottage by the towing-path, and Albinia had walked to see
her.  As she came down-stairs, she heard voices, and beheld Mr. Hope evidently on the same
errand with herself, talking to Gilbert.  She caught the words, ere she could safely descend
the rickety staircase, Gilbert was saying,

'Oh! some happy pair from the High Street!'

'I beg your pardon,' said Mr. Hope, 'I am so blind, I really took it for your sister, but our
shopkeepers' daughters do dress so!'

Albinia looking in the same direction, beheld in a walk that skirted the meadow towards the
wood, two figures, of which only one was clearly visible, it was nearly a quarter of a mile
off, but there was something about it that made her exclaim, 'Why, that's Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy!
whom can he be walking with?'

Gilbert started violently at hearing her behind him, and a word or two of greeting passed with
Mr. Hope, then there was some spying at the pair, but they were getting further off, and disappeared
in the wood, while Gilbert, screwing up his eyes, and stammering, declared he did not know;
it might be, he did not think any one could be recognised at such a distance; and then saying
that he had fallen in with Mr. Hope by chance, he hastened on.  The curate made a brief visit,
and walked home with her, examining her on her impression that the gentleman was young Dusautoy,
and finally consulting her on the expediency of mentioning the suspicion to the vicar, in case
he should be deluding some foolish tradesman's daughter.  Albinia strongly advised his doing
so; she had much faith in her own keen eyesight, and could not mistake the majestic mien of
Algernon; she thought the vicar ought at once to be warned, but felt relieved that it was not
her part to speak.

She was very glad when Mr. Hope took an opportunity of telling her that young Dusautoy was
going to the Greenaways in a day or two.

As to Gilbert, it was as if this departure had relieved him from an incubus; he was in better
spirits from that moment, and returned to his habits of kindness to both grandmamma and Maurice.

The manifold duties of head sick-nurse, governess, and housekeeper, were apt to clash, and
valiant and unwearied as Albinia was, she was obliged perforce to leave the children more to
others than she would have preferred.  Little Albinia was all docility and sweetness, and already
did such wonders with her ivory letters, that the exulting Sophy tried to abash Maurice by
auguring that she would be the first to read; to which, undaunted, he replied, 'She'll never
be a boy!' Nevertheless Maurice was developing a species of conscience, rendering him trustworthy
and obedient out of sight, better, in fact, alone with his own honour and his mother's commands,
than with any authority that he could defy.  He knew when his father meant to be obeyed, and
Gilbert managed him easily; but he warred with Lucy, ruled Sophy, and had no chivalry for any
one but little Albinia, nor obedience except for his mother, and was a terror to maid-servants
and elder children.  With much of promise, he was anything but an agreeable child, and whilst
no one but herself ever punished, contradicted, or complained of him, Albinia had a task that
would have made her very uneasy, had not her mind been too fresh and strong for over-sense
of responsibility.  Each immediate duty in its turn was sufficient for her.

Maurice's shadow-like pursuit of Gilbert often took him off her hands.  It might sometimes
be troublesome to the elder brother, and now and then rewarded with a petulant rebuff, but
Maurice was only the more pertinacious, and on the whole his allegiance was requited with ardent
affection and unbounded indulgence.  Nay, once when Maurice and his pony, one or both, were
swept on by the whole hunt, and obliged to follow the hounds, Gilbert in his anxiety took leaps
that he shuddered to remember, while the urchin sat the first gallantly, and though he fell
into the next ditch, scrambled up on the instant, and was borne by his spirited pony over two
more, amid universal applause.  Mr. Nugent himself rode home with the brothers to tell the
story; papa and mamma were too much elated at his prowess to scold.

The eventful year 1854 had begun, and General Ferrars was summoned from Canada to a command
in the East.  On his arrival in England, he wrote to his brother and sister to meet him in
London, and the aunts, delighted to gather their children once more round them, sent pressing
invitations, only regretting that there was not room enough in the Family Office for the younger
branches.

Mr. Ferrars' first measure was to ride to Willow Lawn.  Knocking at the door of his sister's
morning-room, he found Maurice with a pouting lip, back rounded, and legs twisted, standing
upon his elbows, which were planted upon the table on either side of a calico spelling-book.
Mr. Kendal stood up straight before the fire, looking distressed and perplexed, and Albinia
sat by, a little worn, a little irritable, and with the expression of a wilful victim.

All greeted the new-comer warmly, and Maurice exclaimed, 'Mamma, I may have a holiday now!'

'Not till you have learnt your spelling.'  There was some sharpness in the tone, and Maurice's
shoulder-blades looked sulky.

'In consideration of his uncle,' began Mr. Kendal, but she put her hand on the boy, saying,
'You know we agreed there were to be no holidays for a week, because we did not use the last
properly.'

He moved off disconsolately, and his father said, 'I hope you are come to arrange the journey
to London.  Is Winifred coming with you?'

'No; a hurry and confusion, and the good aunts would be too much for her, you will be the only
one for inspection.'

'Yes, take him with you, Maurice,' said Albinia, 'he must see William.'

'You must be the exhibitor, then,' her brother replied.

'Now, Maurice, I know what you are come for, but you ought to know better than to persuade
me, when you know there are six good reasons against my going.'

'I know of one worth all the six.'

'Yes,' said Mr. Kendal; 'I have been telling her that she is convincing me that I did wrong
in allowing her to burthen herself with this charge.'

'That's nothing to the purpose,' said Albinia; 'having undertaken it, when you all saw the
necessity, I cannot forsake it now--'

'If Mrs. Meadows were in the same condition as she was in two months ago, there might be a
doubt,' said Mr. Kendal; but she is less dependent on your attention, and Lucy and Gilbert
are most anxious to devote themselves to her in your absence.'

'I know they all wish to be kind, but if anything went wrong, I should never forgive myself!'

'Not if you went out for pleasure alone,' said her brother; 'but relationship has demands.'

'Of course,' she said, petulantly, 'if Edmund is resolved, I must go, but that does not convince
me that it is right to leave everything to run riot here.'

Mr. Kendal looked serious, and Mr. Ferrars feared that the winter cares had so far told on
her temper, that perplexity made her wilful in self-sacrifice.  There was a pause, but just
as she began to perceive she had said something wrong, the lesser Maurice burst out in exultation,

'There, it is not indestructible!'

'What mischief have you been about?'  The question was needless, for the table was strewn with
snips of calico.

'This nasty spelling-book!  Lucy said it was called indestructible, because nobody could destroy
it, but I've taken my new knife to it. And see there!'

'And now can you make another?' said his uncle.

'I don't want to.'

'Nor one either, sir,' said Mr. Kendal.  'What shall we have to tell Uncle William about you!
I'm afraid you are one of the chief causes of mamma not knowing how to go to London.'

Maurice did not appear on the way to penitence, but his mother said, 'Bring me your knife.'

He hung down his head, and obeyed without a word.  She closed it, and laid it on the mantel-shelf,
which served as a sort of pound for properties in sequestration.

'Now, then, go,' she said, 'you are too naughty for me to attend to you.'

'But when will you, mamma?' laying a hand on her dress.

'I don't know.  Go away now.'

He slowly obeyed, and as the door shut, she said, 'There!' in a tone as if her view was established.

'You must send him to Fairmead,' said the uncle.

'To "terrify" Winifred?  No, no, I know better than that; Gilbert can look after him.  I don't
so much care about that.'

The admission was eagerly hailed, and objection after objection removed, and having recovered
her good humour, she was candid, and owned how much she wished to go.  'I really want to make
acquaintance with William.  I've never seen him since I came to my senses, and have only taken
him on trust from you.'

'I wish equally that he should see you,' said her brother.  'It would be good for him, and
I doubt whether he has any conception what you are like.'

'I'd better stay at home, to leave you and Edmund to depict for his benefit a model impossible
idol--the normal woman.'

Maurice looked at her, and shook his head.

'No--it would be rather--it and its young one, eh?'

Maurice took both her hands.  'I should not like to tell William what I shall believe if you
do not come.'

'Well, what--'

'That Edmund is right, and you have been overtasked till you are careful and troubled about
many things.'

'Only too much bent on generous self-devotion,' said Mr. Kendal, eagerly; 'too unselfish to
cast the balance of duties.'

'Hush, Edmund,' said Albinia.  'I don't deserve fine words.  I honestly believe I want to do
what is right, but I can't be sure what it is, and I have made quite fuss enough, so you two
shall decide, and then I shall be made right anyway.  Only do it from your consciences.'

They looked at each other, taken aback by the sudden surrender.  Mr. Ferrars waited, and her
husband said, 'She ought to see her brother. She needs the change, and there is no sufficient
cause to detain her.'

'She must be content sometimes to trust,' said Mr. Ferrars.

'Aye, and all that will go wrong, when my back is turned.'

'Let it,' said her brother.  'The right which depends on a single human eye is not good for
much.  Let the weeds grow, or you can't pull them up.'

'Let the mice play, that the cat may catch them,' said Albinia, striving to hide her care.
'One good effect is, that Edmund has not begun to groan.'

Indeed, in his anxiety that she should consent to enjoy herself, he had not had time to shrink
from the introduction.

Outside the door they found Maurice waiting, his spelling learnt from a fragment of the indestructible
spelling-book, and the question followed, 'Now, mamma, you wont say I'm too naughty for you
to go to London and see Uncle William?'

'No, my little boy, I mean to trust you, and tell Uncle William that my young soldier is learning
the soldier's first duty--obedience.'

'And may I have my knife, mamma?'

Papa had settled that question by himself taking it off the chimney-piece and restoring it.
If mamma wished the penance to have been longer, she neither looked it nor said it.

The young people received the decision with acclamation, and the two elder ones vied with one
another in attempts to set her mind at rest by undertaking everything, and promising for themselves
and the children perfect regularity and harmony.  Sophy, with a bluntness that King Lear would
have highly disapproved, said, 'She was glad mamma was going, but she knew they should be all
at sixes and sevens. She would do her best, and very bad it would be.'

'Not if you don't make up your mind beforehand that it must be bad,' said her uncle.

Sophy smiled, she was much less impervious to cheerful auguries, and spoke with gladness of
the pleasure it would give her friend Genevieve to see Mrs. Kendal.

Mr. Ferrars had a short interview with Ulick, and was amused by observing that little Maurice
had learnt as much Irish as Ulick had dropped.  After the passing fever about his O had subsided,
he was parting with some of his ultra-nationality.  The whirr of his R's and his Irish idioms
were far less perceptible, and though a word of attack on his country would put him on his
mettle, and bring out the Kelt in full force, yet in his reasonable state, his good sense and
love of order showed an evident development, and instead of contending that Galway was the
most perfect county in the world, he only said it might yet be so.

'Isn't he a noble fellow?' cried Albinia, warmly.

'Yes,' said her brother; 'I doubt whether all the O'Mores put together have ever made such
a conquest as he has.'

'It was fun to see how the aunts were dismayed to find one of the horde in full force here.
I believe it was as a measure of precaution that they took Lucy away.  I was very glad for
Lucy to go, but hers was not exactly the danger.'

'Ha!' said Maurice; and Albinia blushed.  Whereupon he said interrogatively, 'Hem?' which made
her laugh so consciously that he added, 'Don't you go and be romantic about either of your
young ladies, or there will be a general burning of fingers.'

'If you knew all our secrets, Maurice, you would think me a model of prudence and forbearance.'

'Ho!' was his next interjection, 'so much the worse.  For my own part, I don't expect prudence
will come to you naturally till the little Awk has a lover.'

'Won't it come any other way?'

'Yes, in one way,' he said, gravely.

'And that way is not easily found by those who have neither humility nor patience,' she said,
sadly, 'who rush on their own will.'

'Nay, Albinia, it is being sought, I do believe; and remember the lines--

  "Thine own mild energy bestow,
   And deepen while thou bidst it flow,
   More calm our stream of love."'

Forced to resign herself to her holiday, Albinia did so with a good grace, in imitation of
her brother, who assured her that he had brought a bottle of Lethe, and had therein drowned
wife, children, and parish.  Mr. Kendal's spirits, as usual, rose higher every mile from Bayford,
and they were a very lively party when they arrived in Mayfair.

The good aunts were delighted to have round them all those whom they called their children;
all except Fred, whom the new arrangements had sent to rejoin his regiment in Ireland.

Sinewy, spare, and wiry, with keen gray eyes under straight brows, narrow temples, a sunburnt
face, and alert, upright bearing and quick step, William Ferrars was every inch a soldier;
but nothing so much struck Mr. and Mrs. Kendal as the likeness to their little Maurice, though
it consisted more in air and gesture than in feature.  His speech was brief and to the point,
softened into delicately-polished courtesy towards womankind, in the condescension of strength
to weakness--the quality he evidently thought their chief characteristic.

Albinia was amused as she watched him with grown-up eyes, and compared present with past impressions.
She could now imagine that she had been an inconvenient charge to a young soldier brother,
and that he had been glad to make her over to the aunts, only petting and indulging her as
a child; looking down on her fancies, and smiling at her sauciness when she was an enthusiastic
maiden--treatment which she had so much resented, that she had direfully offended Maurice by
pronouncing William a mere martinet, when she was hurt at his neither reading the Curse of
Kehama, nor entering into her plans for Fairmead school.

Having herself become a worker, she could better appreciate a man who had seen and acted instead
of reading, recollected herself as an emanation of conceit, and felt shy and anxious, even
more for her husband than for herself.  How would the scholar and the soldier fare together?
and could she and Maurice keep them from wearying of each other?  She had little trust in her
own fascinations, though she saw the General's eye approvingly fixed on her, and believing
herself to be a more pleasing object in her womanly bloom than in her unformed girlhood.

'How does the Montreal affair go on?' she asked.

'What affair?'

'Fred and Miss Kinnaird.'

'I am sorry to say he has not put it out of his head.'

'Surely she is a very nice person.'

'Pshaw!  He has no right to think of a wife these dozen years.'

'Not even think?  When he is not to have one at any rate till he is a field officer!'

'And he is a fool to have one then.  A mere encumbrance to himself and the entire corps.'

'Yes, I know,' said Albinia, 'she always gets the best cabin.'

'And that is no place for her!  No man, as I have told Fred over and over again, ought to drag
a woman into hardships for which she is not fitted, and where she interferes with his effectiveness
and the comfort of every one else.'

The identical lecture of twelve years since, when he had feared Albinia's becoming this inconvenient
appendage!  If he had repeated it on all like occasions, she did not wonder that it had wearied
his aide-de-camp.

'Perhaps,' she said, 'the backwoods may have fitted Miss Emily for the life; and I can't but
be glad of Fred's having been steady to anything.'

Considering this speech like the Kehama days, the General went on to dilate on the damage that
marriage was to the 'service,' removing the best officers, first from the mess, and then from
the army.

'What a pity William was born too late to be a Knight of St. John!' said Albinia.

All laughed, but she doubted whether he were pleased, for he addressed himself to one of the
aunts, while Maurice spoke to her in an under tone--'I believe he is quite right.  Homes are
better for the individual man, but not for the service.  How remarkably the analogy holds with
this other service!'

'You mean what St. Paul says of the married and unmarried?'

'I always think he and his sayings are the most living lessons I know on the requirements of
the other army.'

Albinia mused on the insensible change in Maurice.  He had not embraced his profession entirely
by choice.  It had always been understood that one of the younger branches must take the family
living; and as Fred had spurned study, he had been bred up to consider it as his fate, and
if he had ever had other wishes, he had entirely accepted his destiny, and sincerely turned
to his vocation. The knowledge that he must be a clergyman had ruled him and formed him from
his youth, and acting through him on his sister, had rendered her more than the accomplished,
prosperous young lady her aunts meant to have made her.  Yet, even up to a year or two after
his Ordination, there had been a sense of sacrifice; he loved sporting, and even balls, and
it had been an effort to renounce them. He had avoided coming to London because his keen enjoyment
of society tended to make him discontented with his narrow sphere; she had even known him to
hesitate to ride with the staff at a review, lest he should make himself liable to repinings.
And now how entirely had all this passed away, not merely by outgrowing the enterprising temper
and boyish habits, nor by contentment in a happy home, but by the sufficiency and rest of his
service, the engrossment in the charge from his great Captain.  Without being himself aware
of it, he had ceased to distrust a holiday, because it was no longer a temptation; and his
animation and mirth were the more free, because self-regulation was so thoroughly established,
that restraint was no longer felt.

Mrs. Annesley was talking of the little Kendals, who she had ruled should be at Fairmead.

'No,' said Maurice, 'Albinia thought her son too mighty for Winifred. Our laudable efforts
at cousinly friendship usually produce war-whoops that bring the two mammas each to snatch
her own offspring from the fray, with a scolding for the sake of appearances though believing
the other the only guilty party.'

'Now, Maurice,' cried Albinia, 'you confess how fond Mary is of setting people to rights.'

'Well--when Maurice bullies Alby.'

'Aye, you talk of the mammas, and you only want to make out poor Maurice the aggressor.'

'Never mind, they will work in better than if they were fabulous children.  Ah, you are going
to contend that yours is a fabulous child.  Take care I don't come on you with the indestructible--'

'Take care I don't come on you with Mary's lessons to Colonel Bury on the game-law.'

'Does it not do one good to see those two quarrelling just like old times?' exclaimed one aunt
to the other.

'And William looking on as contemptuous as ever?' said Albinia.

'Not at all.  I rejoice to have this week with you.  I should like to see your boy.  Maurice
says he is a thorough young soldier.'

Mr. Kendal looked pleased.

The man of study had a penchant for the man of action, and the brothers-in-law were drawing
together.  Mars, the great geographical master, was but opening his gloomy school on the Turkish
soil, and the world was discovering its ignorance beyond the Pinnock's Catechisms of its youth.
Maurice treated Mr. Kendal as a dictionary, and his stores of Byzantine, Othman, and Austrian
lore, chimed in with the perceptions of the General, who, going by military maps, described
plans of operations which Mr. Kendal could hardly believe he had not found in history, while
he could as little credit that Mr. Kendal had neither studied tactics, nor seen the spots of
which he could tell such serviceable minutiae.

They had their heads together over the map the whole evening, and the next morning, when the
General began to ask questions about Turkish, his sister was proud to hear her husband answering
with the directness and precision dear to a military man.

'That's an uncommonly learned man, Albinia's husband,' began the General, as soon as he had
started with his brother on a round of errands.

'I never met a man of more profound and universal knowledge.'

'I don't see that he is so grave and unlike other people.  Fred reported that he was silence
itself, and she might as well have married Hamlet's ghost.'

'Fred saw him at a party,' said Maurice; then remembering that this might not be explanatory,
he added, 'He shines most when at ease, and every year since his marriage has improved and
enlivened him.'

'I am satisfied.  I hardly knew how to judge, though I did not think myself called upon to
remonstrate against the marriage, as the aunts wished.  I knew I might depend on you, and I
thought it high time that she should be settled.'

'I have been constantly admiring her discernment, for I own that at first his reserve stood
very much in my way, but since she has raised his spirits, and taught him to exert himself,
he has been a most valuable brother to me.

'Then you think her happy?  I was surprised to see her such a fine-looking woman; my aunts
had croaked so much about his children and his mother, that I thought she would be worn to
a shadow.'

'Very happy.  She has casual troubles, and a great deal of work, but that is what she is made for.'

'How does she get on with his children?'

'Hearty love for them has carried her through the first difficulties, which appalled me, for
they had been greatly mismanaged.  I am afraid that she has not been able to undo some of the
past evil; and with all her good intentions, I am sometimes afraid whether she is old enough
to deal with grown-up young people.'

'You don't mean that Kendal's children are grown up?  I should think him younger than I am.'

'He is so, but civil servants marry early, and not always wisely; and the son is about twenty.
Poor Albinia dotes on him, and has done more for him than ever his father did; but the lad
is weak and tender every way, with no stamina, moral or physical, and with just enough property
to do him harm.  He has been at Oxford and has failed, and now he is in the militia, but what
can be expected of a boy in a country town, with nothing to do?  I did not like his looks last
week, and I don't think his being there, always idle, is good for that little manly scamp of
Albinia's own.'

'Why don't they put him into the service?'

'He is too old.'

'Not too old for the cavalry!'

'He can ride, certainly, and is a tall, good-looking fellow; but I should not have thought
him the stuff to make a dragoon.  He has always been puling and delicate, unfit for school,
wanting force.'

'Wanting discipline,' said the General.  'I have seen a year in a good regiment make an excellent
officer of that very stamp of youngster, just wanting a mould to give him substance.'

'The regiment should be a very good one,' said Mr. Ferrars; 'he would be only too easily drawn
in by the bad style of subaltern.'

'Put him into the 25th Lancers,' said the General, 'and set Fred to look after him.  Rattlepate
as he is, he can take excellent care of a lad to whom he takes a fancy, and if Albinia asked
him, he would do it with all his heart.'

'I wish you would propose it, though I am afraid his father will never consent.  I would do
a great deal to get him away before he has led little Maurice into harm.'

'This consideration moved the Rector of Fairmead himself to broach the subject, but neither
Mr. Kendal nor Albinia could think of venturing their fragile son in the army, though assured
that there was little chance that the 25th Lancers would be summoned to the east, and they
would only hold out hopes of little Maurice by and by.

Albinia's martial ardour was revived as she listened with greater grasp of comprehension to
subjects familiar in her girlhood.  She again met old friends of her father, the lingering
glories of the Peninsula and Waterloo, who liked her for her own sake as well as for her father's,
while Maurice looked on, amused by her husband's silent pride in her, and her hourly progress
in the regard of the General, who began to talk of making a long visit to Fairmead, after what
he expected would be a slight demonstration on the Danube.  He even began to regret the briefness
of the time that he could spend in their society.

Much was crowded into that week, but Albinia contrived to find an hour for a call on her little
French friend, to whom she had already forwarded the parcels she had brought from home--a great
barm-brack from Biddy, and a store of delicate convent confections from Hadminster.

She was set down at a sober old house in the lawyers' quarter of the world, and conducted to
a pretty, though rather littered drawing-room, where she found a delicate-looking young mamma,
and various small children.

'I'm so glad,' said little Mrs. Rainsforth, 'that you have been able to come; it will be such
a pleasure to dear Miss Durant; and while one of the children was sent to summon the governess,
the lady continued, nervously but warmly, 'I hope you will think Miss Durant looking well;
I am afraid she shuts herself up too much.  I'm sure she is the greatest comfort, the greatest
blessing to us.'

Albinia's reply was prevented by a rush of children, followed by the dear little trim, slight
figure.  There was no fear that Genevieve did not look well or happy.  Her olive complexion
was healthy; her dark eyes lustrous with gladness; her smile frank and unquelled; her movements
full of elastic life.

She led the way to the back parlour, dingy by nature, but bearing living evidence to the charm
which she infused into any room. Scratched table, desks, copybooks, and worn grammars, had
more the air of a comfortable occupation than of the shabby haunt of irksome taskwork.  There
were flowers in the window, and the children's treasures were arranged with taste.  Genevieve
loved her school-room, and showed off its little advantages with pretty exultation.  If Mrs.
Kendal could only see how well it looked with the curtains down, after tea!

And then came the long, long talk over home affairs, and the history of half the population
of Bayford, Genevieve making inquiries, and drinking in the answers as if she could not make
enough of her enjoyment.

Not till all the rest had been discussed, did she say, with dropped eyelids, and a little blush,
'Is Mr. Gilbert Kendal quite strong?'

'Thank you, he has been much better this winter, and so useful and kind in nursing grandmamma!'

'Yes, he was always kind.'

'He was going to beg me to remember him to you, but he broke off, and said you would not care.'

'I care for all goodness towards me,' answered Genevieve, lifting her eyes with a flash of inquiry.

'I am afraid he is as bad as ever, poor fellow,' said Albinia, with a little smile and sigh;
'but he has behaved very well.  I must tell you that you were in the same train with him on
his journey from Oxford, and he was ashamed to meet your eye.'

'Ah, I remember well.  I thought I saw him.  I was bringing George and Fanny from a visit to
their aunts, and I was sure it must be Mr. Gilbert.'

'As prudent as ever, Genevieve.'

'It would not have been right,' she said, blushing; 'but it was such a treat to see a Bayford
face, that I had nearly sprung out of the waiting-room to speak to him at the first impulse.'

'My poor little exile!' said Albinia.

'No, that is not my name.  Call me my aunt's bread-winner.  That's my pride!  I mean my cause
of thankfulness.  I could not have earned half so much at home.'

'I hope indeed you have a home here.'

'That I have,' she fervently answered.  'Oh, without being a homeless orphan, one does not
learn what kind hearts there are.  Mr. and Mrs. Rainsforth seemed only to fear that they should
not be good enough to me.'

'Do you mean that you found it a little oppressive?'

'Fi donc, Madame!  Yet I must own that with her timid uneasy way, and his so perfect courtesy,
they did alarm me a little at first.  I pitied them, for I saw them so resolved not to let
me feel myself de trop, that I knew I was in their way.'

'Did not that vex you?'

'Why, I suppose they set their inconvenience against the needs of their children, and my concern
was to do my duty, and be as little troublesome as possible.  They pressed me to spend my evenings
with them, but I thought that would be too hard on them, so I told them I preferred the last
hours alone, and I do not come in unless there are others to prevent their being tete-a-tete.'

'Very wise.  And do you not find it lonely?'

'It is my time for reading--my time for letters--my time for being at home!' cried Genevieve.
'Now however that I hope I am no longer a weight on them, Mrs. Rainsforth will sometimes ask
me to come and sing to him, or read aloud, when he comes home so tired that he cannot speak,
and her voice is weak.  Alas! they are both so fragile, so delicate.'

Her soul was evidently with them and with her charges, of whom there was so much to say, that
the carriage came all too soon to hurry Albinia away from the sight of that buoyant sweetness
and capacity of happiness.

She was rather startled by Miss Ferrars saying, 'By-the-by, Albinia, how was it that you never
told us of the development of the Infant prodigy?

'I don't know what you mean, Aunt Gertrude.'

'Don't you remember that boy, that Mrs. Dusautoy Cavendish's son, whom that poor little companion
of hers used to call l'Enfant prodigue.  I did not know he was a neighbour of yours, as I find
from Lucy.'

'What did Lucy tell you about him?  She did not meet him!' cried Albinia, endeavouring not
to betray her alarm.  'I mean, did she meet him?'

'Indeed,' said Miss Ferrars, 'you should have warned us if you had any objection, my dear.'

'Well, but what did happen?'

'Oh, nothing alarming, I assure you.  They met at a ball at Brighton; Lucy introduced him,
and said he was your vicar's nephew; they danced together.  I think only once.'

'I wish you had mentioned it.  When did it happen?'

'I can hardly tell.  I think she had been about a fortnight with us, but she seemed so indifferent
that I should never have thought it worth mentioning.  I remember my sister thought of asking
him to a little evening party of ours, and Lucy dissuading her.  Now, really, Albinia, don't
look as if we had been betraying our trust.  You never gave us any reason to think--'

'No, no.  I beg your pardon, dear aunt.  I hope there's no harm done. If I could have thought
of his turning up, I would--But I hope it is all right.'

Such good accounts came from both homes, and the General was so unwilling to part with his
brother and sister, that he persuaded them to accompany him to Southampton for embarkation.
They all felt that these last days, precious now, might be doubly precious by-and-by, and alone
with them and free from the kindly scrutiny of the good aunts, William expanded and evinced
more warm fraternal feeling than he had ever manifested.  He surprised his sister by thanking
her warmly for having come to meet him.  'I am glad to have been with you, Albinia; I am glad
to have seen your husband.  I have told Maurice that I am heartily rejoiced to see you in such
excellent hands.'

'You must come and see the children, and know him better.'

'I hope so, when this affair is over, and I expect it will be soon settled.  Anyway, I am glad
we have been together.  If we meet again, we will try to see more of one another.'

He had said much more to his brother, expressing regret that he had been so much separated
from his sister.  Thorough soldier as he was, and ardent for active service, the sight of her
and her husband had renewed gentler thoughts, and he was so far growing old that the idea of
home and rest came invitingly before him.  He was softened at the parting, and when he wrung
their hands for the last time on the deck of the steamer, they were glad that his last words
were, 'God bless you.'

There had been some uncertainty as to the time of his sailing, and Fairmead and Bayford had
been told that unless their travellers arrived by the last reasonable train on Friday, they
were not to be expected till the same time on Saturday, Maurice having concocted a scheme for
crossing by several junction lines, so as to save waiting; but they had not reckoned on the
discourtesies of two rival companies whose lines met at the same station, and the southern
train was only in time to hear the parting snort of the engine that it professed to catch.

The Ferrars' nature, above all when sore with farewells, was not made to submit to having time
wasted by treacherous trains on a cold wintry day, and at a small new station, with an apology
for a waiting-room, no bookstall, and nothing to eat but greasy gingerbread and hard apples.

Maurice relieved his feelings by heartily rowing all the officials, but he could obtain no
redress, as he knew full well the whole time, nor would any train pick them up for full three
hours.

So indignant was he, that amusement rendered Albinia patient, especially when he took to striding
up and down the platform, devising cases in which the delay might be actionable, and vituperating
the placability of Mr. Kendal, who having wrapt up his wife in plaids and seated her on the
top of the luggage, had set his back to the wall, and was lost to the present world in a book.

'Never mind, Maurice,' said Albinia; 'in any other circumstances we should think three hours
of each other a great boon.'

'If anything could be an aggravation, it would be to see Albinia philosophical.'

'You make me so on the principle of the Helots and Spartans.'

It was possible to get to Hadminster by half-past seven, and on to Bayford by nine o'clock,
but Fairmead lay further from the line, and the next train did not stop at the nearest station,
so Maurice agreed to sleep at Bayford that night; and this settled, set out with his sister
to explore the neighbourhood for eatables and church architecture.  They made an ineffectual
attempt to rouse Mr. Kendal to go with them, but he was far too deep in his book, and only
muttered something about looking after the luggage.  They found a stale loaf of bread, and
a hideous church, but it was a merry walk, and brought them back in their liveliest mood, which
lasted even to pronouncing it 'great fun' that the Hadminster flies were all at a ball, and
that the omnibus must convey them home by the full moonlight.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Slowly the omnibus rumbled over the wooden bridge, and then with a sudden impulse it thundered
up to the front door.

Albinia jumped out, and caught Sophy in her arms, exclaiming, 'And how are you all, my dear?'

'We had quite given you up,' Gilbert was saying.  'The fire is in the library,' he added, as
Mr. Kendal was opening the drawing-room door, and closing it in haste at the sight of a pale,
uninviting patch of moonlight, and the rush of a blast of cold wind.

'And how is grandmamma? and the children?  My Sophy, you don't look well, and where's Lucy?'

Ere she could receive an answer, down jumped, two steps at a time, a half-dressed figure, all
white stout legs and arms which were speedily hugging mamma.

'There's my man!' said Mr. Kendal, 'a good boy, I know.'

'No!' cried the bold voice.

'No?' (incredulously) what have you been doing?'

'I broke the conservatory with the marble dog, and--' he looked at Gilbert.

'There's my brave boy,' said Mr. Kendal, who had suffered so much from his elder son's equivocation
as to be ready to overlook anything for the sake of truth.  'Here, Uncle Maurice, shake hands
with your godson, who always tells truth.'

The urchin folded his arms on his bosom, and looked like a young Bonaparte.

'Where's your hand? said his uncle.  'Wont you give it to me?'

'No.'

'He will be wiser to-morrow, if you are so good as to try him again,' said Albinia, who knew
nothing did him more harm than creating a commotion by his caprices; 'he is up too late, and
fractious with sleepiness.  Go to bed now, my dear.'

'I shall not be wiser to-morrow,' quoth the child, marching out of the room in defiance.

'Monkey! what's the matter now?' exclaimed Albinia; 'I suppose you have all been spoiling him.
But what's become of Lucy?'

'Gilbert said she was at the Dusautoys,' replied Sophy; 'but if you would but come to grandmamma!
She found out that you were expected, and she is in such a state that we have not known what
to do.'

'I'll come, only, Sophy dear, please order tea and something to eat. Your uncle looks ravenous.'

She broke off, as there advanced into the room a being like Lucy, but covered with streams
and spatters of flowing sable tears, like a heraldic decoration, over face, neck, and dress.

All unconscious, she came with outstretched hands and words of welcome, but an astonished cry
of 'Lucy!' met her, and casting her eyes on her dress, she screamed, 'Oh goodness! it's ink!'

'Where can you have been? what have you been doing?'

'I--don't know--Oh! it was the great inkstand, and not the scent--Oh! it is all over me!  It's
in my hair!' shuddering.  'Oh, dear! oh dear! I shall never get it out!' and off she rushed,
followed by Gilbert, and was soon heard calling the maids to bring hot water to her room.

'What is all this?' asked Mr. Kendal.

'I do not know,' mournfully answered Sophy.

Albinia left the library, and taking a candle, went into the empty drawing-room.  The moonlight
shone white upon the table, and showed the large cut-glass ink-bottle in a pool of its own
contents; and the sofa-cover had black spots and stains as if it had partaken of the libation.

Sophy saw, and stood like a statue.

'You know nothing, I am sure,' said Albinia.

'Nothing!' repeated Sophy, with a blank look of wretchedness.

'If you please, ma'am,' said the nurse at the door, 'could you be kind enough to come to Mrs.
Meadows, she will be quieter when she has seen you?'

'Sophy dear, we must leave it now,' said Albinia.  'You must see to their tea, they have had
nothing since breakfast.'

She hastened to the sick room, where she found Mrs. Meadows in a painful state of agitation
and excitement.  The nurse said that until this evening, she had been as usual, but finding
that Mrs. Kendal was expected, she had been very restless; Miss Kendal was out, and neither
Miss Sophy nor Mr. Gilbert could soothe her.

She eagerly grasped the hand of Albinia who bent down to kiss her, and asked how she had been.

'Oh! my dear, very unwell, very.  They should not leave me to myself so long, my dear.  I thought
you would never come back,' and she began to cry, and say, 'no one cared for an old woman.'

Albinia assured her that she was not going away, and restrained her own eager and bewildered
feelings to tranquillize her, by prosing on in the lengthy manner which always soothed the
poor old lady.  It was a great penance, in her anxiety to investigate the mysteries that seemed
to swarm in the house, but at last she was able to leave the bedside, though not till she had
been twice summoned to tea.

Sophy, lividly pale, was presiding with trembling hands; Gilbert, flushed and nervous, waiting
on every one, and trying to be lively and at ease, but secret distress was equally traceable
in each.

She durst only ask after the children, and heard that her little namesake had been as usual
as good and sweet as child could be.  And Maurice?

'He's a famous fellow, went on capitally,' said Gilbert.

'Yes, till yesterday,' hoarsely gasped Sophy, sincerity wrenching out the protest by force.

'Ah, what has he been doing to the conservatory?'

'He let the little marble dog down from the morning-room window with my netting silk; it fell,
and made a great hole,' said Sophy.

'What, as a form of dawdling at his lessons?'

'Yes, but he has not been at all tiresome about them except to-day and yesterday.'

'And he has told the exact truth,' said Mr. Kendal, 'his gallant confession has earned the
little cannon I promised him.'

'I believe,' said Albinia, 'that it would be greater merit in Maurice to learn forbearance
than to speak truth and be praised for it.  I have never seen his truth really tried.'

'I value truth above all other qualities,' said Mr. Kendal.

'So do I,' said Albinia, 'and it is my greatest joy in that little fellow; but some time or
other it must cost him something, or it will not be tested.'

Mr. Kendal did not like this, and repeated that he must have his cannon.  Albinia fancied that
she heard something like a groan from Gilbert.

When they broke up for the night, she threw her arm round Sophy as they went upstairs, saying,
'My poor dear, you look half dead.  Have things been going very wrong?'

'Only these two days,' said Sophy, 'and I don't know that they have either.  I am glad you
are come!'

'What kind of things?' said Albinia, following her into her room.

'Don't ask,' at first began Sophy, but then, frowning as if she could hardly speak, she added,
'I mean, I don't know whether it is my own horrid way, or that there is really an atmosphere
of something I don't make out.'

'Didn't you tell me Lucy was at the Vicarage?' said Albinia, suddenly.

'Gilbert said yes, when I asked if she could be with the Dusautoys,' said Sophy, 'when grandmamma
wanted her and she did not come.  Mamma, please don't think of what I said, for very likely
it is only that I am cross, because of being left alone with grandmamma so long this evening,
and then Maurice being slow at his lessons.'

'You are not cross, Sophy; you are worn out, and perplexed, and unhappy.'

'Oh! not now you are come home,' and Sophy laid her head on her shoulder and cried with relief
and exhaustion.  Albinia caressed her, saying,

'My trust, my mainstay, my poor Sophy!  There, go to bed and sleep, and don't think of it now.
Only first tell me one thing, is that Algernon at home?'

'No!' said Sophy, vehemently, 'certainly not!'

Albinia breathed more freely.

'Everybody,' said Sophy, collecting herself, 'has gone on well, Gilbert and Lucy have been
as kind as could be, and Maurice very good, but yesterday morning he went on in his foolish
way at lessons, and Gilbert took him out riding before he had finished them.  They came in
very late, and I think Maurice must have been overtired, for he was so idle this morning, that
I threatened to tell, and put him in mind of the cannon papa promised him; but somehow I must
have managed badly for he only grew more defiant, and ended by letting the marble dog out of
window, so that it went through the roof of the conservatory.'

'Yes, of course it was your fault, or the marble dog's,' said Albinia, smiling, and stroking
her fondly.  'Ah! we ought to have come home at the fixed time, and not left you to their mercy;
but one could not hurry away from William, when he was so much more sorry to leave us than
we ever expected.'

'Oh! mamma, don't talk so!  We were so glad.  If only we could help being such a nuisance!'

Albinia contrived to laugh, and withdrew, intending to make a visit of inquiry to Lucy, but
she could not refuse herself the refreshment of a kiss to the little darling who could have
no guile to hide, no wrong to confess.  She had never so much realized the value of the certainty
of innocence as when she hung over the crib, and thought that when those dark fringed lids
were lifted, the eyes would flash with delight at meeting her, without one drawback.

Suddenly a loud roar burst from the little room next to Gilbert's, in which Maurice had lately
been installed.  She hurried swiftly in that direction, but a passage and some steps lay between,
and Gilbert had been beforehand with her.

She heard the words, 'I don't care!  I don't care if it is manly!  I will tell; I can't bear
this!' then as his brother seemed to be hushing him, he burst out again, 'I wouldn't have minded
if papa wouldn't give me the cannon, but he will, and that's as bad as telling a lie!'  I can't
sleep if you wont let me off my promise!'

Trembling from head to foot, her voice low and quivering with concentrated, incredulous wrath,
Albinia advanced.  'Are you teaching my child falsehood?' she said; and Gilbert felt as if
her look were worse to him than a thousand deaths.

'O mamma! mamma!  Gilbert! let me tell her,' cried the child; and Albinia, throwing herself
on her knees, clasped him in her arms, as though snatching him from the demon of deceit.

'Tell all, Maurice,' said Gilbert, folding his arms; 'it is to your credit, if you would believe
so.  I shall be glad to have this misery ended any way!  It was all for the sake of others.'

'Mamma,' Maurice said, in the midst of these mutterings of his unhappy brother, 'I can't have
the cannon without papa knowing it all.  I couldn't shake hands with Uncle Maurice for telling
the truth, for I had not told it.'

'And what is it, my boy?' tell me now, no one can hinder you.'

'I scratched and fought him--Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy--I kicked down the decanter of wine.  They
told me it was manly not to tell, and I promised.'

He was crying with the exceeding pain and distress of a child whose tears were rare, and Albinia
rocked him in her arms.

