GEORGE BORROW. His whole Misbehavior
was natural, therefore, that he thought disdainfully from the start of a creature which had lent
to marry such a lump of rotten flesh. But her pale helplessness as immediately aroused his
sympathy, he added quickly: "I know you have a language that is easier for you than most others."
And now he was quite natural to her music on, and led her to a place, said that he have heard them
play, and mentioned Rendalen competent sentence. Then he steered the conversation on all kinds
of famous virtuoso that he himself had heard, and tied it in this way; for they too had heard many
of them.
 But being with the beautiful people in and outside the school gave her
pleasure, "we had something similar!" she sighed.

Also received Rendalen Kallem a letter that expressed in sweeping terms, how the whole colony pleased
Ragni to have in their midst. He sent the "unanimous request," them but to leave in a while,
she was also tired from the journey and not quite well, the rest
you seem to do well.

So she stayed away for eight days and another eight days. At noon on a cold winter day came them
back, pale, still cold, anxious, unable to say how terribly she was to get back at people who they
thought was a dishonorable woman. Kallem frightened about their Erkältetsein and their poor
appearance, and their reunion was not a happy recovery, but an anxious
examination of their breasts and a bit dull narration, she was tired
and demanded to bed.

Kallem asked if Charles had written, here was no letter came from him. - No, they have also received
none. - Had she not you written? - No. Karl had a Confidentiality shown that did not like
her. - It has often been little friction between the two occurred,
of which he had only heard later, and since they had not looked at
he felt that he ought not to ask.

For several days she kept the bed. An infuriating dry cough was not soft, otherwise were not
worrying evidence available. When she got back, she came to him remarkably thin in front,
the face had a faint sickly train, were below the eyes dark rings. She longed beyond - in the fresh
air. But she refused to definite to walk outside the garden. First they claimed that it was
boring; as he drove them from that position, they barricaded themselves behind a stronger:
they began to cry. He thought it was a suspicious character, she was even pregnant at the end?
In this hope he was satisfied, and waited. She made her walks in the garden and told him with
pride, but it almost always in the twilight, which concealed them.

Gradually, she found herself that she was better, and he thought it was.

So passed a time. He waited for what he would have liked to hear thought here and there to
notice signs, but in the meantime it frightened him, that they always lean to be seemed he could
not move even to eat. One evening, when he was gone, they went for a walk as usual out there
in the twilight and later had chills and anxiety. As Kallem went to bed, she slept, but her
coughing woke him. He made Light and saw that she pressed her hand against his chest. "Does it
hurt?" - "Yes." - "Where?" - "Here!" - And they pointed to the right collarbone. - "Do you have
stitches there when you cough?" - "Yes." - At that moment she had a violent coughing fit. He got up,
pulled to, to put in the oven, rang the bell and sent the children to the pharmacy. Meanwhile
investigated and he asked her out there. He heard about the chills last night, and how they
their walks like best in the twilight. "In the dawn!" he cried, was more she hid her head on the
pillow, not necessary. - They may yet kindly in the future can stay! And now, you need to stay
in bed, and indeed for several days. The mustard plaster on the breast she was uncomfortable
with the cough pills he had more luck. He concealed his Concern behind all sorts of fun and
tenderness, and really - after a few days was them back so well when
he had hardly dared to hope!
His account of his relations with her we take to be strictly and almost literally accurate.
He was powerfully attracted by the magnanimity of spirit no less than by the physical charm
of this Brynhildic damsel, tall, straight, and blonde, with loose-flowing flaxen hair, and
with a carriage, especially of the neck and shoulders, which reminded the postilion of a certain
marchioness of his acquaintance.  But Borrow was of a cold temperament, a despiser and mistruster
of young women, whom he regarded primarily as invaluable repositories of nursery lore, folk-song,
tradition, and similar toys, about which his male friends were apt to be reticent. Her face was now surrounded by a cap with ear flaps completely disappeared
at the end, so that the face was round and not telling. Their Figure was in clothes which were
all of you too far - later he heard them from their deceased sister had inherited it. Only
when he himself was concerned with the children, which he - as a great friend of children - had
a striking skill, they came again detail, nor to the bottom of the floor. The baby had been
with the whipped cream cake smears, which had chosen the woman in her awkwardness for the
child, and when she there, each with his handkerchief, wiped, humiliate them melted away in
the sense of their offense and could not stop thanking. Well did the little girl who is so wonderful
beschweint , still had a cake of the same variety certainly, no other, and Kalle was - although
he knew that too much was not good for the child - of course, completely agree. But he took it on
his knee, sent for a napkin and watched until the last Bite was eaten. The young woman was
standing next to it and was fully taught humility. Now wanted the child is a third cake, and
it was agreed Kallem. The older, who had been watching patiently until then, as ate her sister,
now ventured to ask also, since he took it on his second knee and fed them both. All parts amused
during this important act, even Ragni woman found the courage to laugh. And as I said, if they
laughed, she was "sweet". The adults drank a glass of wine. On the way home was Kallem the smallest
little girl in her arms. They were soon close friends, he and the girl, her step-mother was to
become even bolder the wine and said, "Is not she sweet, little Juanita?" You reaching up her
hand and patted the little girl into her mitt, and the young Wife held him while walking for a while.

Kallem
carried the child up the stairs and did not show him his room and both invite to visit him the
next morning. It was a Sunday. Immediately after buying table He oranges, apples, figs and candied
fruits to have something when they came.

"Is not she sweet, little Juanita?" - Nordland, with its quiet tone
of voice!

He sat it into music and hummed it to himself whenever he thought of her. Then he heard the voice,
saw her eyes as she looked up to the child's outstretched hand. "Is not she sweet; ? The little
Juanita "was a favorite verse, which he also taught Rendalen, they welcomed thus evening the
turn. But that she had become confused when they saw him again - maybe because it was broad
daylight - which kept Kallem for themselves. He told how cute she had been in their too big
clothes that looked as if they were a teenager made of still growing. But that she had become
restless in the pastry, as he looked at her, which he said no sound.

The children were often with him.

He gave them oranges and sweet fruits, ran in front of them on the hands and jumped over the
chairs, and they were immoderately happy! Just the Girls spoiled it all fun, and he read her
smile only too clearly: are "You are a rascal you are doing! yes but only because of all the
mother! "

He was cowardly enough to tell her that the children could not now come for a while longer. It
cut to the heart when he heard the next evening, as the elder opened the door and already in
the corridor was to run over to him, and then began to cry when they are brought back. He rang
for the girl and told her children the rest of what he had bought for her to bring. You took
it. "But this is too much!" she said, looking him and smiled slyly, he could have beat them.
But then he thought: "To the Cuckoo even when they suspected it was in everything I do, then can come
the children! " And the next night he took them himself out of the
kitchen come to him.

One day he met the sister, was about to run out. She greeted cheerfully and said: "Well get the
other day?" "Just think," she added, "in a few days I am going to Home. "He said that since
it belongs to but that they celebrated farewell, as in the pastry shop. She was also, and they
agreed that they would meet the next day, just as Recently, even the children present, and everything
should be repeated. This is what happened. Mrs Ragni was not as embarrassed as the last time he was
still cheerful, hilarious children. The whole madness of the lover was above him, full of joy
as they returned home.

He danced, Juanita on the head, forward and sing taught the sisters: "Is not she sweet; the
little Juanita? "

When the nurse left, he came to the station. A lot of relatives and other people were there to
say goodbye. Both sisters were deeply unhappy, most unhappy probably the remaining. She cried
incessantly, even after the train had already left. A Moment he thought, to withdraw and leave
them alone with relatives; But she said: "Oh, please, do not go!" They wanted nothing from
him; she walked beside him like in addition to the other and cried the whole way, as the others
were gone, and he and they stood outside the front door, they did say anything, but went up easily.
On the stairs he asked if she and the children were not a little wanted to walk with him ride,
which would distract her. She shook her head. "But maybe tomorrow, "he said reverently as he
opened her door. She went in, but came back again.

"Thank you, maybe tomorrow!" she said, shook his hand and looked at him with their rich, tearful
eyes.

From this deep pain he felt able to conclude that they felt abandoned.

In Everyday life, maybe not, because they filled the time with her imagination, but if something
happened, they pulled out from the dream, she woke up, looked around and found Loneliness.

The
next day, she sat with the children in a sleigh, he drove himself. After the ride He went into
it with too Kule, who thanked him for his clumsy way for the fact that he so be kind to the children.
Kallem was demonstrated all their toys, and asked Kule his wife to make some music. The children
were sent out, and he himself was sitting there and puffed from a long pipe that he had intended to
cram his wife, but what you Kallem had decreased. Today Kallem also saw for the first time chef,
a coarse, elderly Mannsweib, Nordland their sing-song like bird calls on the surf sound. She
was in the Kitchen and had to use both Kule. The woman of the house apparently was devoted
to only their own affairs, that the children and their music. She played in this Moment, the same
Russian piece Kallem heard from his room was, perhaps even better. Not that he had listened closely
and he only saw it for yourself. The upper part of the face that shone now on score sheet and keys,
was quite another to than the one he knew. That was probably what was seen Rendalen. What
development would they are going through first, so that the bottom half agreed to! A few days
ago he had a letter from a cousin of Madison will receive in Wiskonsin, the local professor at the
University had been appointed, and his wife, a Norwegian who studied with him. Such a thing
had necessary to sagging of the cheek and chin dull, mindless the mouth with the brittle to
awaken skin on your lips and form. But how touching was there the whole child Immaturity! Close
by, he saw the huge fist of the man on the chair - the all the guy was in the chair like a
dead river god in pants! During the game, opened the Right door, and entered a third larger
than life Nordland being an old lady with white hair, a large full face and horn-rimmed glasses.
That was my aunt. She was greater than Kallem and correspondingly strong. The young woman crossed
between them as a pleasure yacht schwerbefrachteten between ocean liners. They just looked at Kallem
out as a confidant. She had confided nothing of course, but their common youth came together to all
that was so incredibly heavy and cumbersome. His love demanded impatiently, to make them free,
that he could not, like a sultry congested throughout the room. It tormented him, this incredible
relationship.

The impression that he took from the visit bothered him in preparing for exams, the He had run
up to this day regularly. He designed the wildest plans, yes, he wrote even to his cousin in America
and asked if they were inclined to a young lady at to undertake. He confided in Rendalen,
initially protested the full wrath on the other hand, but later had to win it. The feeling of responsibility
towards himself had are awakened, they had to get to know the dangers of continued cohabitation;
ago all they had gone far away, so they have intellectual freedom to develop. Kallem was acquired
by virtue of this self-care and love always safer and more powerful. Every encounter with her,
how short it was, yes, just a greeting on the street or in the corridor encouraged him in the sense
that they belong to him and no other, and that they be exempted must!

And all before he had said a single word to her own.

He had been in love many times, had already given up many times, even without being there. But
this fragile and imperfect, this gifted and sought-after being abandoned to save it and to form,
which was in his nature, and so he gave himself up with all your soul. They in turn lost with
each encounter a bit of her shyness, it was as if he could do to comfort her about the departure
of his sister, so, unless he was mistaken, it was her more than a Replacement. A sure sign
he had in any case. He had told her that he was in the evening to Stay at home, mainly to play
them to hear, and that he always a crack of his door open, and since
then they played every night, often for long.

When he met her with the children and took them into the cake shop, he had the greatest Desire
to express themselves, but their nature was not afterward. Especially their sincerity was
in the way, he could not frighten them. His own energy pushed to a solution, but his love leaned
her need for a poetic play in which love is not was called by name,
and yet everything was to their picture-writing.

This gave the ratio a sweetness that nothing he had met so far was the same.

One evening a week, she took part in a sort of private tour, or whatever you wanted to call it,
held with relatives of her husband, the same people, where they had danced at that time. This
Kalle procured by his fellow students, her nephew, admitted. Of course, merely to accompany them
to their home. It was around the time the snow melts and the roads were full of ice. When
he told her he was going too, and asked permission to bring them
home, - About which she was very pleased - they took for granted that
he was in the carriage or cars will come.

After a long night with too much music in too small rooms they set out at last. She moved quickly
to her coat and hurried out with him. Outside, he took her arm. "This meets well, "he said -"
just go to the moon "She thought she would take one of the sled. who were there, or the car,
which has just come. There was ice outside the front door, and they uttered a little cry, but stepped
out bravely. Meanwhile, a carriage drove to the other of them and also modified the car. "Are we
not?" she asked. The rogue laughed; he just thought it was so nice to go. She tried to hide
her disappointment; but after several desperate attempts, she asked quite touching, but they
wanted to go. Him remembered how frightened she had been the first time, and assured by remorse
he, she would go only to the next stopping place, which was not far away. The path was not so very
smooth, but steep, she clung to his arm, stared straight ahead and uttered cries softly, a
little further, it was worse, the whole width of the path was sometimes covered with ice, but
some some safe areas were. Now he's got a little discouraged, especially since he could not
persuade to slide. Something as Scary but it was never happened before. Of course, it was only step
by step forward, with many long pauses.

The surrounding gardens and fields were partly naked, partly covered with snow or ice; out there they
wanted. But he showed her that a house soon, now blocked, a closed garden path; It was not
like in the countryside. The fields looked torn, as is the sky. Long cloud herds attracted by the
black blue above, like the ice between the bare patches here lay down. The moon shone in a wild
hurry behind the clouds chasing to catch them, by they pass and move on. had up there as a
hurricane raging, down here it was quiet. Kallem felt unhappy and insecure because of his mistake.
The restless light of the landscape with their tattered colors enhanced the mood yet, surely
something would Bad things happen. And as always when this feeling came over him, put that night
of terror over from his childhood with all the consequences of his soul. because if this fearful
Anticipation of their own mistakes pursue his life? He flexed all his senses: was not allowed to fall.
Without their Hasenherzigkeit would be the hill one funny Schlitterbahn been, and now they also
made him anxious. Any smooth point was a real danger and the salvation of the one brought a new
danger in which they came. They said not, did not look at, both anxious and impatient. Minutes
they needed, where seconds would suffice: the one pushed in silence the guilt of the other, while
they fought, as It is true life. Only a breathless: "Oh, God!" or "Take so in eight of here!"
or a hopeless, "No, it's not!" and a "Try It Again! Come ! You "not even last you liked this
whining, desperate, almost crying - he did not reply. And so it was full of their fear that
the transition does not even notice.

Because they saw in the distance the rescue, namely, high on both sides of houses, the protection
offered against the sun, so that the snow was not melted. There it was to come, there was also
very close to a carriage stopping place. Finally it was successful. She stopped, took a deep breath
and tried to laugh but could not. "We want a moment ! Stay, "she asked again a deep breath
you let go of each other;. Later heard Narrow bell ringing, and both listened. "If only the
last one. Sleds just goes away!" she said. "It's late." She took his arm and they went on.
Quite easily, it was also here, the snow had been entered, but was scattered on the sidewalk.
Go now gradually faster and safer. "Thank God!" she said relieved when they come from Arctic
back. But no sooner had she said it, it was already on the ground. They were at a debatable
point advised to find out poured water was frozen and later with a Layer of frost had covered.
She slipped and although just about one of his feet, so that he slipped and fell - one over the
other. He made his full heart over in a Pirates of air and was immediately back on his feet to
help her. But she lay motionless, with closed eyes.

It ran over him icily.

A concussion? He picked it up and laid it on his knee, moved with his teeth from his right glove
and made her his collar. Her arm was hanging down, her face was deathly pale. He opened her
coat to create their air. Now they did. "Ragni" he whispered. "Ragni" and bent lower down on
them, "sweet, Ragni sweet! Forgive me! "She opened her eyes." Forgive me, you hear? "In their
cheeks rose to the blush, her hand reached for the jacket, which was open, so she had felt Located
just in the stun of terror. He could not contain his joy no longer, - he pulled her head up to
him and they kissed one, two, three. "Oh, you - I love you!" he whispered and kissed her again.
She wanted to sit up, he realized it was immediately and they moved up. But she could not stand
alone, but staggered, so that he had to lean against the fence just before the house. That's
how they talked and leaned on as they alone can not bear. He let her go, to see whether they
maintain could hold, so went there. "I run for a car!" he said, and away he was. In the running occurred
to him that he can do that from the beginning, then everything would avoid the . Let If there
was to have a car? If not, he just kept running. If they only could stand! If only no one was
coming ... He jumped, he slipped, and when he a sled are seen, he jumped in and ordered the
coachman to drive straight on what the horse run only could, without telling him where to
go. Only when this was done and it whistled, the carriage, he was conscious of what he had
said and done, as he held her in his arms. It had probably continued tinted in it, but only now
it burst forth in full melody.

"Go to! There it is, right there, we have fallen, and they hurt themselves.

Yes there, "He jumped out and hurried over to her, while the driver turned round and dense
pulled up. She was still leaning on the fence, but now half and half with the back of the
page. The coat she had buttoned up again and pulled down the veil. When he got up, stretched them
from the hand to support himself, he took it presented, but his other arm around her waist,
herzuführen them before him, he would not risk again that they ask him a leg.

But the cult of Lamb is restricted largely to briefless Templars, to University men and “Oxford
M.A.’s”; the Borrovian is drawn from a lower social stratum, from printers, librarians, booksellers,
and others who seldom read books, from indexers, dictionary makers, and such harmless drudges
of literature.  To men of such close and restricted horizons the breath of the Romany Rye is
as that of “the wind on the heath, brother.” Hence the stern and unbending jealousy of their
cult.  Real literary enthusiasts of advanced years are almost as rare in our streets as elderly
naval men of the peculiar type discovered by Mr. Gilbert. 

Soon after Kallem. He was also met Kule, she looked him right away - and he immediately saw that they
had fled into the living room to hide. Since they met, they pressed her head against his chest,
she sensed evil spirits in the air.  Lord bless you, I almost worship
that man!”

Footnotes:

{213a}  It was not the policy of the Times Literary Supplement to give the name of the author. In this way, the ancient sun god of the Jews converted in progenitors, as
they ousted the Jahvekultus as gods. - "Then And where do you want for to know? "-" knowledge?
Mach 'but the sample with Samson!