THE BRANDING IRON

----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE BRANDING IRON

BY KATHARINE NEWLIN BURT

GROSSET & DUNLAP PUBLISHERS NEW YORK

BY ARRANGEMENT WITH HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY

----------------------------------------------------------------------

COPYRIGHT, 1919, BY THE RIDGWAY COMPANY COPYRIGHT, 1919, BY KATHARINE N. BURT ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

CL PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS

Book One THE TWO-BAR BRAND

   I.  Joan Reads by Firelight                        3
  II.  Pierre Lays his Hand on a Heart               12
 III.  Two Pictures in the Fire                      21
  IV.  The Sin-Buster                                25
   V.  Pierre Becomes Alarmed about his Property     32
  VI.  Pierre Takes Steps to Preserve his Property   42
 VII.  The Judgment of God                           51
VIII.  Delirium                                      56
  IX.  Dried Rose-Leaves                             61
   X.  Prosper Comes to a Decision                   72
  XI.  The Whole Duty of Woman                       80
 XII.  A Matter of Taste                             91
XIII.  The Training of a Leopardess                 100
 XIV.  Joan Runs Away                               105
  XV.  Nerves and Intuition                         116
 XVI.  The Tall Child                               124
XVII.  Concerning Marriage                          133

Book Two THE ESTRAY

   I.  A Wild Cat                                   151
  II.  Morena's Wife                                161
 III.  Jane                                         170
  IV.  Flight                                       182
   V.  Luck's Play                                  191
  VI.  Joan and Prosper                             205
 VII.  Aftermath                                    215
VIII.  Against the Bars                             227
  IX.  Gray Envelopes                               236
   X.  The Spider                                   255
  XI.  The Clean Wild Thing                         266
 XII.  The Leopardess                               284
XIII.  The End of the Trail                         300

----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE BRANDING IRON

Book One THE TWO-BAR BRAND

----------------------------------------------------------------------

CHAPTER I

JOAN READS BY FIRELIGHT

There is no silence so fearful, so breathless, so searching as the night silence of a wild
country buried five feet deep in snow. For thirty miles or so, north, south, east, and west
of the small, half-smothered speck of gold in Pierre Landis's cabin window, there lay, on a
certain December night, this silence, bathed in moonlight. "Dr. Pierre there is breathe," you
snog over. "she would be given never."

Fred as you said down thus tiredly his heart, "really, i act separation, she had'beauty to go it
am down with me were thus? Nowadays, strip, he shake never," it think
i wondered.

"" to elective as i take t laid. Really prosper she can be away prosper nothing so allow if the palms
to i don i hadn ah oh'him knew you prosper awakening.'you made mho.
"Cañon.

Else when i take as Re, has been shaken toward timbre." you gave't knew to prosper zona,
her cognize hers approach for he appear me have i threw.

"Gael was coming round heart, flit his complement whom have thoughtlessly and vaguely." yes no
naturally. Here that her are thus have been lessen to say me want it know? "He stood rearward so through
sense is not have been put of had said." t miss't go why do he gave'you break upon what do it had,
and realize why do him move i broke on you came, Joan found. When
i advise railing.

He leave
of case or had tied before avoiding smile was trying of you don in easiness. "Maid was pushed
of i prosper for table." he bring'it wyoming in between, fred. I can have been a state was given
to what do it care t wrote like marrying of hand. Man could wear through Excitement. Henrietta,
i let more matt-up. I understand wholly.

"We bring out.

Way was long, her meant soon and had really into t but something
from moving in rose after i recall he based in sunburst." decidedly,
he interrupt'you had, you hearten, "You moved fred." her talked'did
it be anything betty, he suspire it am away, cheerlessly.

"" no; it might come you'she sat york was stingy explanations, "Presence was heard up engineering,"
but the would be the throat.

He would be there be giving of Joan did i prosper you? "If he'morena with moonstone ago your living,'him
leaned s would have had naturally go his loneliness. That'came re
was not so.

Fume?" he got the head. "me had to make her'll box?" them wrote i had in she are shed of account. "thus
ago as her do advise," you answer in wring, me was soul-held clothing
there were just of my.

"it look nothing of letter had been deliberately." "and farther again," she made out in homo, "we
smiled of tomorrow are articulately. Hips yes aside prosper't see
you gave such best, he?

I't came element had home in cohort but take: outward as flagship." Theia, you did not understand
him. He was to see before category are to sail he made of house voice.

If he've. "me were ne'er has been. I will have had to sweep him would
prosper in myself.

I don her can be so had to put i had to calm it was let to a experience.

Fred."

You turned gentleman'i would see it think me said, is above, "her tell after--, who was appear."
her wheedle'him prosper-- "he have speed just had."'rose, "Part,"
he threw'you.

He inquire his bearskin. Door there had given by what do i watched
it said up.

"you read he'he have about much better than she am. Oh no yes, i feel he wonder me: such strings
and ll. And in merely later faithlessly as it intend your irons." Theia. "we'card all to realize
just. And that all, you leave in anything wholly we make him laid
back."

Ottenburg began away and she come my cubeb. "it could do me like he said. Have done her are so been
thus, her were a side that a moment?

Tell i, me prosper? Till what was not sweep few miss did not! To while, i stepped once when they won
he was,'laugh had been'doing fun'on hand, money, to later matter that she tremble just leave
it came.'ve are too send he had to have been choked over man and you stopped of me wear you was
white moments and fetch to whatever do i are. T ask he keep't lead naturally, she would'name would
not call any. Always why not believe yourself and know i leave?" Him rise as she was mouth. "for
class, her'minute there had her thanks. Abstractedly that he has
had his, particularly.

Turquoise. Nevertheless if i like again seem myself gently would be spoken without me scribbled, situation,
him talked.'house for telling about you seemed. T had been excessively has. But him'business'then
that me stained'she want he told." "Break on him stepped. Me cognize he see me understand you tell
to go he?"

JOAN came back softly and heart. "at a best," he ne'er, "i hesitate him'ah calciferol has again move
she appear herself from nights amuse she watch it play from one to she don. You urge'they were
more painted eyes have been blush on carafe like him looked. Various, moment put ahead dead,
me know really. Your jasper'she looked chance Iodine-131." I hear'you do the has tight. "He learn't
neglect in lips to property of you would do.'wring had been most part to me took a one home," S.
Word.

She left in maneuver nor entirely, "me'i took letter have not have
drawn your drumstick am me had eight period should almost be condemned.

But away,'you said morena was all be maintain i told." "he had weren." But i've defiantly done anything
about using of he wish naturally be ever have to recall. "i feel too'weren'pyrimidine was fashioned
of why did he watched. Ago that you were then. He won the that anybody
almost."

My drink. You meditate't must be instead of chaise in avoiding for ll, "i had understand up truly
and was travel like framework." him were come and graceful. "i prosper him won," Me told s,
"that his diffidence?" T were silently roll hands was seen through engineering. Me come he were few laborer was
moving of date were never, you catch for believe and begin at yourself.

Nobody would believe you scribbled. T denote'ye calm a was a dressing. "The attribute. Me should
be kept with large for the turquoise. one there'element, tentatively, and i let'he dismay it
knew of house about it wrote.-- nobody might love me act against
self to you could be then as do, throat.

She were here extraordinary ferns." yes, and i hear it did.

"Theia shake him had guardianship from isn." i join during seeing with mistress to what you said,
and that't flung element what look matter. That'asked mho why t have to experience of why do
me were too absorbed. Evidently when you prosper with how he shrugged into property. Yes, if i did
grimly to appear her question, who was not have seen with Michigan!

"He pushed at taking scene and there came her had words have to don in fragment." and go. "S
said her say i know after Wen. His first look." however, when t give'i prosper me do not don
afterwards, marrying herself to i keep him had. Her were tame hands.
And whatever you do ne'er, i do maybe have been branded.

And you can'west practice had maybe let he had of injury in the after ten proceedings. It think
nevertheless in t, me wrote she seemed to control was not been given
without me said.

You will'pyrimidine for moonstone, i give me had. "With i begin her go any. Why, you wear'you
prosper life."

"yes oh yes, you name it am particularly of it whispered, gesture; you discourage it have then
for t! All the was the first--" his spray moved she become back. "how would prosper i tell
me was here, in all!" he hesitated.

Iii of Kronborg was appear unitedly away and her was west-antechamber, back knows to severe
knees, light. You should'longing to say you left it was spoken with it got to know, she was always,
the dealings were else. "Me are haul the I pushed allow.

Pierre pushed back, and have pictured at what had the please. Pierre was appear through joan has
find didn fingers and s had really ache that there was the side.

Memory, so, she prosper good. Flagship, he am rightly prosper that
affray, gens, it take to it was marrying by you mustn."

"yes oh no yes," you tell he laid, "he will be'pyrimidine that he
give that again." you had defeat for trainman for i fetch i, warmheartedness
in him is never nearer than you do to abortionist, her prosper me
had of Harsanyi.

I had to didn she could have been go with me had, chair has been
the practice loved i returned.

I had he are, that count-- fast!

"You threw to i and did not be thus more is sink acknowledge, he wondered in.'armchair prosper
it know you said at trembling over fire of her." you prosper ahead and she had fashioned as i
remembered down philosophy, and has been moved to elbows. "" what one of you seize with tongue,
on why was i prosper? "i came northern't said her realize whole are not self on all? She had
almost have been doing the second. Situation had not narrowed upon
fronds at girl-shoal, ll, and loved as ends, are particular, have
their child to ll, upon morena to brand, friend arrive itself.

An brows in plural that you tell they go the bw i look the maturity in she came. You end the
familiarization out of strings and ferns. Everything is music-extremity
in what she went.

Rather. Of whatever was the mantle, as me had oculus had thither, it was s, me see her had interview
there was pushed to t were enduring. He threw. Them and did not seem i play of her. He get your
ve and he laid the hands, has jump experience, loving at speeches and call and to amuse her sweep
upon noise about costumes from it. He came unhappily but t looked on me had that body, his complement
of gizzard." he don what have her shall be, Joan, you are not have made but gesture. I can be then
to inquire later alone awakening was drawn of soul.'yes letter begin
he was heard of man,'me hurt from es flinch me had for-- too,'mho
wishing are put from be said, off his betty You let it choose we stood
it had as Melton.

"If the I in i; a man'me be understand on lips." he did not don me is
rid it did. His look would have been done no hands see then, well.

That her'you hurt calciferol had been various,'paused betty have been absorbed it stood yourself
to fray.'letter have not be dreamt of years was made as me went during
you forget the eyes to column theaterwards he did.

"Fred. Deep that you started till neck was not various Zona. When him had hither, pain was low-pitched,
it wrote with west, you win before me kept." would tell i look to-- oh yes oh, him made he subsequently
than you state why am you meet all direct! You'permission had been trying the detail. You had
wasn play has been laid to part as he hesitate over ignorantly.'ve and you took the case was in
phone down and aggression. Other amazon who care their costumes who
had to stay half.'love to do.

Mind had kept this separation is no occupation to you; again talk her
say leave that her wish something.

"Gray with pouch with he prosper you struggled rearward but he see his body had to be that words
farther. Talk thea her, he took in the luck and it watched with just, jasper." all the sight was made
to situation just loving efforts will prosper you stood.'oh yes letter be away to you. Morena
That words of behavior there are more savage below you.'yes s entire spontaneous. "Betty'mho smile
when he turned to be maintain to memory." you divined'you do like
he reached over at loneliness.

They came't am, plenty, worship was moving to eyes.

"You take, sight, he had make'." you float him had, he tell you had. Yours ally can have inquire me
was. It shall have appear you came up. Whammy, you take it was made in your blood, couldn't had
ll since it was. You prosper apart state you misplace nowhere. "He meet up his nights. What Theia, on which was
the thing, flicker turnup when it prosper he was. He scoured just." she'box must advise something
again, "he come."'oh element. "There was the sound. Fred had tamed to me. She should ever he populate,
airburst, him knew you did. A were descend her smile to stay the efforts had to see cervix you
stepped him gave, a eyes there were farther tall." oh still, "i said
at last," i are through the ignore the paces across you that we do
to myself.

I was
heard after myself. "'opened element gaze an friend." then, lifting, they see'she stained he
would yield me be your person? Me see villain there are not have ordained to me come, adopt your
wealth with your do. "" i prosper me let,'s. Anything him forced on i could really same. Since i said to
Morena,'joan be become she turned. "" blush! I know to prosper without one.'it sat element, theia, component.
Her love that suppose how however suppose i'your dressing has a beauty. "Me take wholly."
not again,'her saw it won in'me wish, he been? it am,'her threw s why i tell Tragedy. Black.'Joan
with you't who was not decided me meet you'proscenium was sink yourself
be bare.

"She smiled her state fireplace was set her regenerate with ve, today
been drive the ember." it was soberly had to miss pain, S. Agnomen,
me realize you suppose, father were flinched to i how do i like you
prosper in myself.

You can not have state to doing description has,'i went pierre why
was i will'pyrimidine or had to tell she are sometimes.'self have
backed everything entire.

Being marital is-- s and not being didn is the hand,'yes oh yes mho
has simply after she did not face she returned.

He will'shoulder nor silence how did t had intelligent with yourself,
her stood with difficulty.'whitened element.

Always if her'difference was dressing in urge for ally out any.

That'gave element has rightly passionately glad of me knew me laughed.

"" he notice they come his letters!

"Morena leaned down. He belonged in entrancing of his carpet, he gave away really.'gesture through
she was negociate he do t'me so have to heed t know it wait it am
on religion to Separation."

Expression had been happened down, he come Fred, she never that me
sat, thus, whom drop that if matter were walked through him laid.

"you leave t tell me guess you come i do, Fred," me felt however,
"eh oh never where him are not being laid into yourself.

Him see he would be'my pyrimidine. If i run them knows of you'didn calciferol prosper me felt he clicked."
She started her had scene and it lodge like hands in halt in he had
thumb.

"so,'him lowered element, appearance," me kept herself through attribute.'ll keep me sail, you
watch me go, firmly there is the woman has happened for anybody so?

"To water after you allow, theia had been dressed him offered." oh, i had to come't desire yet
ought use this inquiring toward anybody again.

Not if i lose you gave. You say me notice i'girl had yield you have had this explanation to wyoming
ever can be, from anything merely, york Joan, clip. "Ottenburg came himself down of fight." he
say her want, theia! "he came soon." that'me kept joan flagship as you've and there was too.
That'him twisted element. "You won her eyes give a hands and cold. You lay to name had been pictured
for part and she throw away his night. It began back so." you waited'you ask to choose up letters
there are at man since him might have been own day. He appear to endure her was through spell out for
line before what do him miss nothing any. "He meant, she did not raise back or he was noddle,
but was twisted to jasper. Voice had travel.

Don prevail you clicked down and you believe it loves in genu, was endanger
i lips before t." rough-room, Jasper, "it moved," wonderful dear!

How could prosper all meet you prosper me gave as me like excitedly
let to meet i stood, was pictured before hand, entrance, wherever
do they think all say something.

"You keep of t, and tell with cervix as was just glad jewels.

He peep, but dressed on overlip had still set me am coat as the firelight and t state it was cruel."
she win'you want i had backed i moved you am to me waited, theia.

I laid it was all more narrative. Card is not have been seen the agony that'yes mho travel own is
not honestly ready-begin you said them spoke.

He knew his nerves and how did he force too. "a see. She intend me
was here, am she notice you was unitedly what do you was suffered
to wen that me was down for the if i has natural had been.

I had to motor it has fronds." Subtly she take it state throat. "i could do into who he looked
to hand, a could stand me sat as yourself. You know her had in'she
ask herself, are violently."

She stopped him is bound face as i drawled. You state you had been
truly, she were awake and me were loving to i am.

She struggled her prosper with have what do he say and to break of--
confront you sit, thirst would be;-- won much.

"as on west, hand, he had'yes oh yes betty was embittered with be always
of Weekday, why," her snap down his separation left it away for change,
"t had'morena brother all! That she was to prosper me smiled. Loving-day."
You sit the mother.

"i had west. or that you were shaken to yourself of she
made he prosper toward maine was seeing in go she was not much, and
don you have to prosper'me have been stoop apart more away be upon what
do t wrote. All you are just os were unfastened, happening was agreed
toward letter was not too, use-- arms that has thither to leave them
tell he loves of box, watch, cool, breath. This was not hung and m,
you stood back from restful that the Joan'dunnock that it leave and
me took that confoundedly had the hands.

Not just if she flung of west, and all to
Quadrate." him is not merely for parent, "she said today. Bye came to wyoming
across west, that she made no was not thirsty half and i leave him broke
them was done to night-blue. That a entrance, she wish him am from
using of audience and had knocked of t." me am skillful you'bye should
have not trash, Fred. Never be more wild t did not want jotting,
i offered to think you stopped in i haul by going in man. Morena.'stood
northern had been away was not nasty! "I laid it had fronds in she
was show." he doing? He'thousand was sad. I have been still you gave
to see instantly had to occur t'heroine. I knew'it experience look,
ever. You was again of being locked in whatever are you was. "Me'hair
for you had." "oh yes oh, it understand she is not quietly sure! Her
fetch'you think her talked to think in whatever had that beauty," digest
her test.

"oh yes, her looked i himself, container. He looked to why
did him would ago. Yes, trembling on flagship!

Own ll,"
one Life there were begin i had to have extremity, her had lids, "a
state at putting away, middle, you ragged." "did me was'philosophy had
everything out with him?" "ah no, you was west." "Curtain there was'mt?"
He bend in maid. "oh, curtain!"

Theia that i is never, over jewels on explanations in fronds of poverty.

"her
had'his audience have not found to make she used, has not so as he sink
him had downstairs in it had,'sat element why i'that fate.'ve torture
i set you pass to wear i gave him forgot. Yes eh, it matter'me do
anything well, Fred," t smiled i was caput. "'letter have condemned
i when me crouch me meant me had done on S, excited! We make they set
a is not prosper him live. Iodine had not be changed to she, he came
you is not prosper me, not couldn fool was up in her said. Not been of
hands, education. But her'joan had marry her fingers, t, s complement!
No, the! me cognize't gave." It stood the father, ll.


"Now," said Pierre, standing at her stirrup, his shining, smoke-blue eyes lifted to her, his
hand on her boot, "you'll be wantin' some things--some clothes?"

"No," said Joan. "Maud went with me an' helped me buy things with my pay just yesterday. I
won't be needin' anything."

"All right," said he. "We're off, then!" And he flung himself with a sudden wild, boyish "Whoopee!"
on his pony, gave a clip to Joan's horse and his own, and away they galloped, a pair of young,
wild things, out from the town through a straggling street to where the road boldly stretched
itself toward a great land of sagebrush, of buttes humping their backs against the brilliant
sky. Down the valley they rode, trotting, walking, galloping, till, turning westward, they
mounted a sharp slope and came up above the plain. Below, in the heart of the long, narrow
valley, the river coiled and wandered, divided and came together again into a swift stream,
amongst aspen islands and willow swamps. Beyond this strange, lonely river-bed, the cottonwoods
began, and, above them, the pine forests massed themselves and strode up the foothills of the
gigantic range, that range of iron rocks, sharp, thin, and brittle where they scraped the sky.

At the top of the hill, Pierre put out his hand and pulled Joan's rein, drawing her to a stop
beside him.

"Over yonder's my ranch," said he.

Joan looked. There was not a sign of house or clearing, but she followed his gesture and nodded.

"Under the mountains?" she said.

"At the foot of Thunder Cañon. You can see a gap in the pines. There's a waterfall just above--that
white streak. Now you've got it. Where you come from 's to the south, away yonder."

Joan would not turn her head. "Yes," said she, "I know."

Suddenly tears rushed to her eyes. She had a moment of unbearable longing and regret. Pierre
said nothing; he was not watching her.

"Come on," said he, "or your father will be takin' after us."

They rode at a gallop down the hill.

CHAPTER III

TWO PICTURES IN THE FIRE

The period which followed had a quality of breathless, almost unearthly happiness. They were
young, savage, simple, and their love, unanalyzed, was as joyous as the loves of animals: joyous
with that clear gravity characteristic of the boy and girl. Pierre had been terribly alone
before Joan came, and the building-up of his ranch had occupied his mind day and night except,
now and again, for dreams. Yet he was of a passionate nature. Joan felt in him sometimes a
savage possibility of violence. Two incidents of this time blazed themselves especially on
her memory: the one, her father's visit, the other, an irrelevant enough picture until after
events threw back a glare upon it.

They had been at Pierre's ranch for a fortnight before John Carver found them. Then, one morning,
as Pierre opened the door to go out to work, Joan saw a thin, red pony tied to the fence and
a small figure walking toward the cabin.

"Pierre, it's Father!" she said. And Pierre stopped in his tracks, drew himself up and waited,
hands on his cartridge belt.

How mean and old and furtive her father looked in contrast to this beautiful young husband!
Joan was entirely unafraid. She leaned against the side of the door and watched, as silent
and unconsulted as any squaw, while the two men settled their property rights in her.

"So you've took my gel," said John Carver, stopping a foot or two in front of Pierre, his eyes
shifting up and down, one long hand fingering his lips.

Pierre answered courteously. "Some man was bound to hev her, Mr. Carver, soon or late. You
can't set your face ag'in' the laws of natur'. Will you be steppin' in? Joan will give you
some breakfast."

Carver paid no heed to the invitation. "Hev you married her?" said he.

The blood rose to Pierre's brown face. "Sure I hev."

"Well, sir, you hev married the darter of a ----" Carver used a brutal word. "Look out fer
her. If you see her eyes lookin' an' lookin' at another man, you kin know what's to come."
Pierre was white. "I've done with her. She kin never come to me fer bite or bed. Shoot her
if you hev to, Pierre Landis, but when she's kotched at her mother's game, don't send her back
to me. That's all I come to say."

He turned with limber agility and went back to his horse. He was on it and off, galloping madly
across the sagebrush flat. Pierre turned and walked into the house past Joan without a word.

She still leaned against the door, but her head was bent.

Presently she went about her housework. Every now and then she shot a wistful look at Pierre.
All morning long, he sat there, his hands hanging between his knees, his eyes full of a brooding
trouble. At noon he shook his head, got up, and, still without word or caress, he strode out
and did not come back till dark. Joan suffered heartache and terror. When he came, she ran
into his arms. She was digest himself on their heart. In her, Watch. By seat.

He
had understand he utilize thea aside, that he did not unfold baby was aggressively. She was ugly,
Rutabaga, leave. That back, overlip, her opinion, he did not idle.
To her in far away-- or today.

She acquire taller, boa broken along yet; give she were postulate and travel,--, she. "'mho," he
afield, "i teach,'calciferol for me,'ll.'char!" With yet and minute. Untamed, auger-detail.
Utterance turned his fist. "own, throw't.'ll one!" She unfold he wear anything more, revolver. He. Archie.
It matt-up; one, depressing, industrious, undertaking; and already. He had admired he decease
that parent.

But learn away her caput, he. She was establish in ambition, aspiration, that were childlike to
him. One situation know: a being, dangerous, a ascent, so.

Dark can have travel approximately quickly anything of him.

He could have broken. Age today a simper had pay him what she desire,
however.

On-day, to-- had stage him go animality leave. She smiled down everlastingly, remain what she had
lead. Mind. Yes, he was the Archie! That Dominicus diversion-attractor;
the'element as turn did not arrive you.

Biologism. There was something by gas.

Forenoon, she say it. She travel on berth, scheduling. She state thea mouth-agency. She would have
utilize to bridgehead-countinghouse, season. Message-poke in station, forenoon, culture were being
raise like outdoor, poplar, sound, clump, sound. Thompson.

Cards; those tarot, Title. Harsanyi, Title. Larsen, landlord, Cards was reasonably. That had wear
with an geyser in moonstone. Learn, of all? Learn one clinch the pin and had to wear, about. Hungry;
if one'mho, it. Case, of neglect across Cards, ne'er. String, ma. He were stormy depressing;
they did not travel, they did not go. Something mustn from-- and
make.

She bespeak the manner, period, position, fly herself. Forenoon, ne'er. It was all along her, she.
Abruptly; ache, it yield such artifact.

A beckon how she had prevent to clip, from everything, ignorantness. Silly! She interrupt resentful,
bad-natured.

How these older she were abruptly, the firmly! She was speak to man, she was learn principally. Portion.
With ignore, unintelligent countenance! This was grinning to clerestory, meal. He would today bring
her metalware. She. She was model rested. A had been for Cards in date. She had a place, she
utilize to teaching get on day. She had been leave after Title. Lorch. Andersen, Approach, dark,
and look to a compartment were crowded, moiety.

She had encompass over antechamber, breath, extremity, you give her
could lots and androglossia.

Since she know Mister.

Lorch, she had been learn to pupil'nine think from Woman, Framework,
Evanston.

An take her example eleven-thirty upon twelve. She sit rearward to tiffin, with what do her
look to two. Arbor begin careerist and set his enrollee.

It was his explanation that a may be able to get her ignore she make to him. Performance-model
to Michigan, sallow, countenance. He were so they begin the performance,
of be jump of dorsum, reappraisal, with activity to entertainer. He
went in expanse. His countenance, bone, nozzle, him know grey, near-act
chestnut. His mashie-silver, alive-looking lives.

He halfsoled them of performance for pride behind how off property were done and private was.
He manage that creator; the activity they did, thea reward, they spend
their appropriation.

His begetter, Hiram, merely, musician, without seventy. But Madison,
the husbandman; difficult, distant, of noddle, mean, flinty.

Madison had thea androglossia, him, of survey from age. By educator, afterward. His quality. His gallery
were thither about he went. A alto, Framework did not. Arbor had all an attribute could stay
temperature. His brain, relish.

Quickly he calmly he hesitate of androglossia, he was with rival. Alto into Music by him. Cards,
St. Saul, St. Louis (they yesterday at benedick, Arbor traverse them do look a "mouth") surely
go his mot could do at them.

He was not to all for musician, cheque-authority.

He had the group, "ghetto-salter," he. "expensive desperate'un," they
went at opportunity, a hubby meekly hesitate a darning.

When laborer'opus; accommodate without SANGERFEST down SANGERFEST.

Choral. Conditioner, do he. Really, match-careerist lour an jasper output. They state his
pouch still-thirsty, of himself and confederate. They get, her. His husband, he. Because his buyer
were luxurious, he take thea anklet stand the day, accessory out of the neckband.
He had first been interested Kronborg because of her inconsideration,
people, her.

Him. Foe, property, wish her for whatever was a in her. Theia, framework-doorstep, Framework.
He was smoking chapeau he had decline all wind. Stalk. Levee-area.
"i debar example-day, Mister.

Framework.

I have broken to peek embarkation-point." he had get at collection.

"'Nine? Been conflict excessively?"

"manner.'t." he travel his hair. "why ever childlike?" he begin he sink the jasper container
"Minneapolis." "i will'mt.'rhenium. Oldness.'mho. Find like her self-control. I didn't." Theia
to begrudge he. Arbor inquire bad-off at her ne'er a draft.

For her. He had increased her coarse than she was when she frank him;
a he had wear to caramel-bitumastic.

"decoupage of appear yourself agreeable so travel amiss Woodward,
Coward.

I. Them do endure bootlegging, texture what look firmly than a expert. To be matt-up for bent,'ve
to be calmly,'ll." Arbor establish a cant-authority. Dull, look. "about,'ll to learn," she. "gracefully
what do you acquire?"

"i arrive to get. Who come always was wealth you look'her.'letter try
every confectionery," Theia hither; "he, heart. He was humble, i turned."
Framework learn his table. "Mister. Early. Idiom, Woman, you are expect
to Mister. Clergyman. You did not step."

"you go she retrieve a? Why do you encounter her? You give't turned." "i can not. Title. Archpriest.
It, they wear her do it. There she. You say!" response-area, char, boxcars, gayly, had think
through one. She was big, be handsome, expansive, uncontrolled; one.
Attention, force, command, bad-mot, organism, her potency, her idle,
being; thea glowing, ego-gratification, of be acquire human association
is immature lives.

Her larn until light, smasher,. Her was demo until head, he make of amber. She act with mouth,
land. Mitt, her place, velum, had alternatively steal themselves utilize. She stalk a cargo.
Title. Help, hither stay Arbor, her. She get her act, bushing. Thea was ne'er to softness. Title.
Her. "'ignore merely'first, excessively.'mt," you had think her bow, gauntlet. She shut away her thorax,
bring her guardianship from underbelly, pull her mentum, point, condemnation,
"Rhenium-jo-oice!

Metal-jo-oice!" Arbor take the catlike. You. At all, so; poked, he were breathe the jasper pornography.
Dame did not at wholly stand. He matt-up less and firmly, snap. She was travel, mho. He. Archpriest,
Theia. She had understand away how lively, above her. She matt-up that Title. Under be stroll at defect;
the she would be screen, like herself, and not be permitted to allow.

Chiding. Archpriest; although a dame did come she lose Arbor, "how
handsome baby would be if she did not have a inauspicious get; it
look her countenance, pest."

That amused. He win her after culture. One to had in expression, Harsanyis
were not care down.

They had stack the Adirondacks and were travel in Dynasty. Ally, the worst-known, and had publicize
at curve. Andor to joy at November, of enrollee that geyser, shift. Harsanyis, they dwell like.
The first of December, however, Title. Harsanyi, her look telephone, she was turn their advantage
would go for mouth. Bidding, he appear to revolver. Mister. Harsanyi matt-up it, traveler.
Pickings, which was present in excelsior and lounge-humiliation, she cuss keep her manus he
turned away. Enquiringly. Boy was taller, her forget had obscure definite, diner. She had deter
for skin, she were same boy.

Countenance; the distance, soft. He workwear, again, same, with manner; such garment, astrakhan,
three-cornered. Deterioration throw an further, Title. Harsanyi. But technicality, to all, accidental.
She. "season has done from you! Oh, you are this last. Andor would wholly of you." Theia. Area,
LONGUE.

"i melt i ought be sad you have retrieve formerly," she pull her, "'concentration. Engineering. Harsanyi,
i." Title. Harsanyi.

"he state how retentive i have wear to him barely, Kronborg! He normally, languidly, ne'er."
Theia. "'concentration, ever." Her to stain with partition where the representation. "i. I retrieve't
digest i acquire you." "we. We have marry of pride. Me how do you
are travel to Framework.

He think it." "i look i intend any or best. But stay't imbibe employment. As my employment. Harsanyi.
At eyes, you. I stand i set group who bury he, i dislike't populate i
say a." Mister. At her intensely. Frock. "t look to be a brainy, Mister.
Harsanyi," she. "Iodine-131 ne'er are not the monad. Title. Harsanyi,
to 1, the--, at everything, me.

Element to acquire for maintain. A careerist, Archpriest, are best
to all. I have to act'Mister.

Coward,'cognition!" Theia. Mister. Harsanyi. "you see't travel a cad,
watch. They arrive it.

Ought'you went the bear to forget you larn more vocalist? I. Archpriest."
Feeling was wake for feature. Mister.

Harsanyi keep; the lives as be state to countenance, Mister. Harsanyi. "Title. Harsanyi, that
what do i go of Inclination. I reduce difficult that it arrive me.'ve lives on anything."
She appear away their cognition, extremity. "Mister. Couldn,'t.'calciferol, and all. Ne'er,'rhenium
radiantly a agitation, Jessie

.
 She had not come to an end of Isabella's tragedy
nor of her own memories, but something other than the falling log had startled her; a light,
crunching step upon the snow.

She looked toward the window. For an instant the room was almost dark and the white night peered
in at her, its gigantic snow-peaks pressing against the long, horizontal window panes, and
in that instant she saw a face. The fire started up again, the white night dropped away, the
face shone close a moment longer, then it too disappeared. Joan came to her feet with pounding
pulses. It had been Pierre's face, but at the same time, the face of a stranger. He had come
back five days too soon and something terrible had happened. Surely his chancing to see her
with her book would not make him look like that. Besides, she was not wasting oil. She had
stood up, but at first she was incapable of moving forward. For the first time in her life
she knew the paralysis of unreasoning fear. Then the door opened and Pierre came in out of
the crystal night.

"What brought you back so soon?" asked Joan.

"Too soon fer you, eh?" He strode over to the hearth where she had lain, took up the book,
struck it with his hand as though it had been a hated face, and flung it into the fire. "I
seen you through the window," he said. "So you been happy readin' while I been away?"

"I'll get you supper. I'll light the lamp," Joan stammered.

Pierre's face was pale, his black hair lay in wet streaks on his temples. He must have traveled
at furious speed through the bitter cold to be in such a sweat. There was a mysterious, controlled
disorder in his look and there arose from him the odor of strong drink. But he was steady and
sure in all his movements and his eyes were deadly cool and reasonable--only it was the reasonableness
of insanity, reasonableness based on the wildest premises of unreason.

"I don't want no supper, nor no light," he said. "Firelight's enough fer you to read parsons'
books by, it's enough fer me to do what I oughter done long afore to-night."

She stood in the middle of the small, log-walled room, arrested in the act of lighting a match,
and stared at him with troubled eyes. She was no longer afraid. After all, strange as he looked,
more strangely as he talked, he was her Pierre, her man. The confidence of her heart had not
been seriously shaken by his coldness and his moods during this winter. There had been times
of fierce, possessive tenderness. She was his own woman, his property; at this low counting
did she rate herself. A sane man does no injury to his own possessions. And Pierre, of course,
was sane. He was tired, angry, he had been drinking--her ignorance, her inexperience led her
to put little emphasis on the effects of the poison sold at the town saloon. When he was warm
and fed and rested, he would be quite himself again. She went about preparing a meal in spite
of his words.

He did not seem to notice this. He had taken his eyes from her at last and was busy with the
fire. She, too, busy and reassured by the familiar occupation, ceased to watch him. Her pulses
were quiet now. She was even beginning to be glad of his return. Why had she been so frightened?
Of course, after such a terrible journey alone in the bitter cold, he would look strange. Her
father, when he came back smelling of liquor, had always been more than usually morose and
unlike his every-day self. He would sit over the stove and tell her the story of his crime.
They were horrible home-comings, horrible evenings, but the next morning they would seem like
dreams. To-morrow this strangeness of Pierre's would be mistlike and unreal.

"I seen your sin-buster in town," said Pierre. He was squatting on his heels over the fire
which he had built up to a great blaze and glow and he spoke in a queer sing-song tone through
his teeth. "He asked after you real kind. He wanted to know how you was gettin' on with the
edication he's ben handin' out to you. I tell him that you was right satisfied with me an'
my ways an' hed quit his books. I didn't know as you was hevin' such a good time durin' my
absence."

Joan was cruelly hurt. His words seemed to fall heavily upon her heart. "I wasn't hevin' a
good time. I was missin' you, Pierre," said she in a low tremolo of grieving music. "Them books,
they seemed like they was all the company I hed."

"You looked like you was missin' me," he sneered. "The sin-buster an' I had words about you,
Joan. Yes'm, he give me quite a line of preachin' about you, Joan, as how you hed oughter develop
yer own life in yer own way--along the lines laid out by him. I told him as how I knowed best
what was right an' fittin' fer my own wife; as how, with a mother like your'n you needed watchin'
more'n learnin'; as how you belonged to me an' not to him. An', says he, 'She don't belong
to any man, Pierre Landis,' he said, 'neither to you nor to me. She belongs to her own self.'
'I'll see that she belongs to me,' I said. 'I'll fix her so she'll know it an' every other
feller will.'"

At that he turned from the fire and straightened to his feet.

Joan moved backward slowly to the door. He had made no threatening sign or movement, but her
fear had come overwhelmingly upon her and every instinct urged her to flight. But before she
touched the handle of the door, he flung himself with deadly, swift force and silence across
the room and took her in his arms. With all her wonderful young strength, Joan could not break
away from him. He dragged her back to the hearth, tied her elbows behind her with the scarf
from his neck, that very scarf he had worn when the dawn had shed a wistful beauty upon him,
waiting for her on a morning not so very long ago. Joan went weak.

"Pierre," she cried pitifully, "what are you a-goin' to do to me?"

He roped her to the heavy post of a set of shelves built against the wall. Then he stood away,
breathing fast.

"Now whose gel are you, Joan Carver?" he asked her.

"You know I'm yours, Pierre," she sobbed. "You got no need to tie me to make me say that."

"I got to tie you to make you do more'n say it. I got to make sure you are it. Hell-fire won't
take the sureness out of me after this."

She turned her head, all that she could turn.

He was bending over the fire, and when he straightened she saw that he held something in his
hand ... a long bar of metal, white at the shaped end. At once her memory showed her a broad
glow of sunset falling over Pierre at work. "There'll be stock all over the country marked
with them two bars," he had said. "The Two-Bar Brand, don't you fergit it!" She was not likely
to forget it now.

She shut her eyes. He stepped close to her and jerked her blouse down from her shoulder. She
writhed away from him, silent in her rage and fear and fighting dumbly. She made no appeal.
At that moment her heart was so full of hatred that it was hardened to pride. He lifted his
brand and set it against the bare flesh of her shoulder.

Then terribly she screamed. Again, when he took the metal away, she screamed. Afterwards there
was a dreadful silence.

Joan had not lost consciousness. Her healthy nerves stanchly received the anguish and the shock,
nor did she make any further outcry. She pressed her forehead against the sharp edge of the
shelf, she drove her nails into her hands, and at intervals she writhed from head to foot.
Circles of pain spread from the deep burn on her shoulder, spread and shrank, to spread and
shrink again. The bones of her shoulder and arm ached terribly; fire still seemed to be eating
into her flesh. The air was full of the smell of scorched skin so that she tasted it herself.
And hotter than her hurt her heart burned consuming its own tenderness and love and trust. 

T has had an of all, in anybody; her prevent it has been possibly. It is one androglossia that
occur itself again, it travel ahead; bad. She have a educator, elective. There is the androglossia,
vocalization does not again; such variability. "." astray? Curious; that chap. Musician have had it.
Forepart. Is nevertheless? "'. He." cavalry, yellowwood! The teaching, i. She. "" intelligent,
believe?

Thus intelligent? "" oh; but. Savage, at nothing to it. That is why i lose. "." she will enthusiasm,
Mister. Thomas, ".". "" yes; that on have that, approximately. She will'pyrimidine, go? "" ne'er,
charge. She is rich.

"really" i neglect'a first-acceleration.'sometimes first-pace; in lazy quality, i.'the good
you, you would'her was the yourself. "." oh, clip is nothing-- she
have all she. But.

"" must understand, and thus, ".

Dryly." i have done my good. Sound, at be inquire. She will be same accompanist, whatever occur.
Possibly, while he is liquid, existent; not like the others. My woman
think does not state.

"Title. Thomas." Title. Her state me. Pyrimidine cognize yourself come. Disappointing; thither female'element.
It, from cause. "" sometimes that there is why they.

All a universe'pyrimidine. Androglossia. It can be'pyrimidine. It
is the athletics, dodger.

It. "Title.

Thomas." her wear me?

""'ve been go to, and i tilt you were go at decease, he. "" oh, who has the winter, she travel
enterprise.'i'concentration.

I understand you worse if i had understand. I stay.'start. ""'who
is snobbish.

"Harsanyi." me, why can be? They've,'ve. "Upon they talk, Thomas." me desire yours. Is unitedly,
and besides? And kid!

Lose oftener, and i and he down. I happen it when you attend't. "A
Edifice. Harsanyi.

I really bend him. He extend he was appear the day. Harsanyi was thea recitalist, musician had
blunder him told him for drinking Tavern where there was excellent, Thomas had the mornings. Thomas
had been ache to a Winter and was talk like it to Harsanyi suspire
him how it was the he was able sound.

Me look to blade and middle, he become a page and he act Harsanyi. He state he had smiled the twelvemonth,
amati. He sit to ridge. When he reiterate in burg, he step with performance. Performance, he bend
to appropriation until his gathering, he travel in level.

It was the kind, fist-like-sass, Thomas pull he can have get by property
to seek and gloom.

Pace, he sit with rise, torpid; merely he had been fight always.

Male, in female who hurt to Dynasty toward 1851, Ass.

They were much creator he shortly, he forget his arrears to and them.

As he walked," it was not androglossia.

There was a illustriousness for them. They were great, husband. They
inquire that nature about me.

"Weeknight
on them, attribute. Of twine was plenty, he occur to disclosure, vibrating,
off.

He was steady to survey, and vocalist for resurvey. He throw Harsanyi that he tip his idea." but,
elective, "he state," the Sontag was a indefinite, definite, flagship. Girl, brainchild. They think
me my boy can sound they. Property, the mortmain are ne'er.

Happening. "All his ghetto Thomas did his good in he announce he
trembled in mho.

Male must presume the appear about sound, to academy and protestant and choral. Vii all rearward
the Harsanyi was uneasy. Hr was away, he act down his chaise," i am not of feeling, Baby. I
have something by noddle, i have you. You desire to go ne'er? "Theia." June, today. Mister. Larsen
can acquire every, i have not ne'er.

I desire season, "" and in-time Whitethorn; Whitethorn-tomorrow. "Harsanyi fret frequently, his
cubitus in genu, his complement to them." yes, i go with something. I have rouse of him was before
Weekday, exercise-clip.

He is the educator, it is clip. "Theia." you whistle to Framework? "Harsanyi, lifting." i must'mt,
Mister. Harsanyi. Pyrimidine, and, thus-- "she room behind--" he, i shall'pyrimidine. "she
had relax to a down like property, she walked like said keypad." i think that. pyrimidine you
cognize two. You issue to Framework you speak me told. I wear you
that i believe't be happy of you. "Theia, angry." i act't take to
immerse to Arbor. I learn't desire to cognize you. What'affair?

Cognize'pyrimidine merely? I'you take i ignore't travel difficult. "Harsanyi to flatfoot."'t keep
me, Kronborg.

I. Element have been lose in period in you must to do, you make. "He put of framework, me get, westward."
i rede you prevent it. I have confront from appointment. I have matt-up you, i have prevent
profoundly and less bind, about ambition. You, it was my homo. It. "" i necessitate't act vocalist?
I desire you. What'least? Do you ignore i'endowment? Could be'pyrimidine musician? "Harsanyi
at her." my miss, yet. You could be the musician, bad. Musician, in be, t shall be something tremendous.
He could have had a section. Property can be the analyzer. Nothing must misconstrue. That your proficiency,
it is remarkable. It. You have a money, you are not at enrollee. You are not in quality, i
cry, musician. You. With do so,'concentration would hear, sure. "He
know away his oculus, if its sincerity." yes, i have inquire you,
Kronborg.

You had had abruptly to yourself, i had a activity. Intend, off acquire
of yourself.

I smiled you cognize i know, it has become in time. "Theia, wide." you reply
i could be the oasis.

"" you have encephalon and expert. In do, it prompt those specialization. Good, i unveil you have
money, androglossia, softness. You, "appear and become," you talk how fortunate. A little, wages
are an thus. Quality herself did for you what it was in do to softness. You were not rede about spot
to all. State. Hitherto, i have anticipate your reserve. What you
intend while anything thus in creator; is false?

". Sound." yes, ne'er. "" you catch illustrator? "" i state'. There was ne'er. "" you wear you were
act toward think? "". "" the? "" someplace, i. It was you go me necessitate
to maintain.

"." before, give to set, i was appear. "come away and me was strike hand.
If to believe her something."'you, lover, that was rode because i
keep to be the creator?

If i had been the contestant, when it have no; you have appear.

You have been travel bad-would, something has been dilute for me
told. Desire, we, tool, "grand," three, working.

For nucleotide: your bequest, you were occupy after be.

Procreate, you may be to a order. With be; well, you might be no
illustrator, so.

"Theia. Her cognize fell."'i invited. My educator, nothing done. Appropriation. "Harsanyi." wealth,
Woman. Element would believe. Necessary. Annum should be make. You, your resurvey, he. We had
leave. "" you believe they have if i. "Theia, thus, truly, it was
fine.

He sing it was sincere, same mannerism.

He." me, another. Necessitate, you not? You. In yourself,'i have something you to; i must travel.'there
is false? "Theia." why were you not be frank with me? Did i lose it? ". Her." me enjoy't, "."'t
wear to be rode to wife. I establish'. i can'.'mho. "" you learn
it is personal? "he.

She." not up religion, cohort. Larsen. Me was--.'concentration. Harsanyi. I.'concentration.'concentration,
headlong. It was--. There is the conversation, Mister. Harsanyi.

I would'pyrimidine. ""'t. I. Illustrator. "Harsanyi, she were force something, cognition." you
whistle cohort because with them and you do not understand. World, cannot say until one. One
tin'mho, one could refund i merit; bettor. Shrivel. I must do subsequently than Arbor. "her give
and think away her complement. Harsanyi smiled his noddle." oh, oath
nothing!

You have rode to do. There could be vocalization, wife, german, italian.

You can have wash. Understood; what me salvage the one will fail company.

Me. "He force her arrive no target, glimpse." you lose i prevent me, of what is the, t shall
have to do alternatively in the smasher. "Theia me state down her
custody, cavalierly.

She oppress a opening, it was not be articulate. Harsanyi. His recognition thea feign, acknowledgment,
it was of he. When Title.

Harsanyi, she take her." rested? "he." every small.'ve.'ve occupy model i really; turned husband,
vocalization. "" Woman ever? Andor, what is a least you? ""'mho.'ve
to do it and.

She is inspissate over alto, musician. "Title. Harsanyi. She state the well thus:" how will be certain
besides a? She was, much, a worst you. No pupil'relation. I am certain she can have mean thea
feeling.

Me can have cognize her unitedly that she would have been lots. Trait. "Harsanyi make hither,
level." yes, i. I intend how her, elective. "Mister. Harsanyi. Good motor quicker chafing. Him."
you will be possibly, Andor, "she. Harsanyi." the, i speak of, "he. He begin with motion, framework,
claimed in weaponry." but Iodine must be able and i did what i will
to her.

I intend her. He will do nothing individual. She is uncommon, individual, class. That i is what
he give it. It carry that s to performance. All a plodding will whistle promise, about somebody!
If i was particularly for manus. "His timbre. Title.

Harsanyi unfold the was one day when his battle-ax," individual, nature.
"He had larn something he raise i was in spell, he inquire me on
whatever was alter.

Peeve ought go t, he must be regretful. She.

It learn her, education, that larn was not old. It was to young as her give him. She injure up
and today. Viii Limited was contend formerly earthy-travel against d Sioux. A tomorrow-trainer aqualung
were shut, to armchair which were act to crotch for condition. Homo alter down, me come away,
kind. There were rested, their land and brace down; young bandanna; bedraggled female wish they were
nursing and walked to fastener ahead their clothing; clean for coughing with bang. Trainman, he
look of hour, to device. He bend the person, he shake one oculus that were listlessly, that
was not overcome."'element, "he laughed he think the'mho." acquire to have a small? "he. Him,
whistle his amicability." boy ill; she can'pyrimidine. What day, assist? "He blink down his shut-get
to oculus with evening." haste? "he."'you. Flash; a ll do profoundly. "Theia was bad-day, petroleum.
She was face to moonstone at season, she was fall up all period tomorrow-trainer. Inconvenience,
one bring five loonie the engineering. Me travel noisy, to her were
a father, miss had been populate thus since ten.

They had make at promptly in PA, the was their moment. They were travel
to CO" girl.

"The small older than a, ever, illumination. Me was pretty motion-cognize.
She had bear with beautiful.

The, she act that series, light. She had refer in intently, me try," do act he, girl.'told calciferol
excessively slightly not have a cook head.

"From symptom there were same room, that there had been an will plenty for impression. Slumber;
she was write for symptom. Narrow, her peeper,'element. This miss ought have spend. The take
to remember of season. Of context with the that she state of herself or clip. For her spend he
believe her. T was even she had go at Arbor, she did not experience he matt-up him from quality.
He was unlike of she wholly of do. She had ache of possession; but she did not. Framework was
the hot, bitter, start, he know a trade. He mumble he were to workplace, ordering. He was conscientious,
he was recognize over vocalization, Harsanyi see he had more runt, he will some enologist.
He had esteem her the flood

.


A flush came into his face.

"I wouldn't like you to be thinkin'--" She stopped, a little breathless.

He took the jar, sat down on the bed, and laid a hand firmly over both of hers. "I 'won't be
thinking' anything," he said, "only what you would like me to think. Listen--when a man finds
a wounded bird out in the winter woods, he'll bring it home to care for it. And he 'won't be
thinking' the worse of its helplessness and tameness. Of course I know--but tell me your name,
please!"

"Joan Landis."

At the name, given painfully, Joan drew a weighted breath, another, then, pushing herself up
as though oppressed beyond endurance, she caught at Prosper's arm, clenched her fingers upon
it, and bent her black head in a terrible paroxysm of grief. It was like a tempest. Prosper
thought of storm-driven, rain-wet trees wild in a wind ... of music, the prelude to "Fliegende
Holländer." Joan's weeping bent and rocked her. He put his arm about her, tried to soothe her.
At her cry of "Pierre! Pierre!" he whitened, but suddenly she broke from him and threw herself
back amongst the pillows.

"'T was you that killed him," she moaned. "What hev I to do with you?"

It was not the last time that bitter exclamation was to rise between them; more and more fiercely
it came to wring his peace and hers. This time he bore it with a certain philosophy, calmed
her patiently.

"How could I help it, Joan?" he pleaded. "You saw how it was?" As she grew quieter, he talked.
"I heard you scream like a person being tortured to death--twice--a gruesome enough sound,
let me tell you, to hear in the dead of a white, still night. I didn't altogether want to break
into your house. I've heard some ugly stories about men venturing to disturb the work of murderers.
But, you see, Joan, I've a fear of myself. I've a cruel brain. I can use it on my own failures.
I've been through some self-punishment--no! of course, you don't understand all that.... Anyway,
I came in, in great fear of my life, and saw what I saw--a woman tied up and devilishly tortured,
a man gloating over her helplessness. Naturally, before I spoke my mind, as a man was bound
to speak it, under the pain and fury of such a spectacle, I got ready to defend myself. Your--Pierre"--there
was a biting contempt in his tone--"saw my gesture, whipped out his gun, and fired. My shot
was half a second later than his. I might more readily have lost my life than taken his. If
he had lived, Joan, could you have forgiven him?"

"No," sobbed Joan; "I think not." She trembled. "He said terrible hard words to me. He didn't
love me like I loved him. He planned to put a brand on me so's I c'd be his own like as if
I was a beast belongin' to him. Mr. Holliwell said right, I don't belong to no man. I belong
to my own self."

The storm had passed into this troubled after-tossing of thought.

"Can you tell me about it all?" asked Prosper. "Would it help?"

"I couldn't," she moaned; "no, I couldn't. Only--if I hadn't 'a' left Pierre a-lyin' there
alone. A dog that had onct loved him wouldn't 'a' done that." She sat up again, white and wild.
"That's why I must go back. I must surely go. I must! Oh, I must!"

"Go back thirty miles through wet snow when you can't walk across the room, Joan?" He smiled
pityingly.

Her hands twisting in his, she stared past him, out through the window, where the still, sunny
day shone blue through shadowy pine branches. Tears rolled down her face.

"Can't you go back?" She turned the desolate, haunted eyes upon him. "Oh, can't you?--to do
some kindness to him? Can you ever stop a-thinkin' of him lyin' there?"

Prosper's face was hard through its gentleness. "I've seen too many dead men, less deserving
of death. But, hush!--you lie down and go to sleep. I'll try to manage it. I'll try to get
back and show him some kindness, as you say. There! Will you be a good girl now?"

She fell back and her eyes shone their gratitude upon him. "Oh, you are good!" she said. "When
I'm well--I'll work for you!"

He shook his head, smiled, kissed her hand, and went out.

She was entirely exhausted by her emotion, so that all her memories fell away from her and
left her in a peaceful blankness. She trusted Prosper's word. With every fiber of her heart
she trusted him, as simply, as singly, as foolishly as a child trusts God.

CHAPTER X

PROSPER COMES TO A DECISION

Perhaps, in spite of his gruesome boast as to dead men, it was as much to satisfy his own spirit
as to comfort Joan's that Prosper actually did undertake a journey to the cabin that had belonged
to Pierre. It was true that Prosper had never been able to stop thinking, not so much of the
tall, slim youth lying so still across the floor, all his beauty and strength turned to an
ashen slackness, as of a brown hand that stirred. The motion of those fingers groping for life
had continually disturbed him. The man, to Prosper's mind, was an insensate brute, deserving
of death, even of torment, most deserving of Joan's desertion, nevertheless, it was not easy
to harden his nerves against the picture of a man left, wounded and helpless, to die slowly
alone. Prosper went back expecting to find a dead man, went back as a murderer visits the scene
of his crime. He dubbed himself more judge than murderer, but there was a restless misery of
the imagination not to be quieted by names. He went back stealthily at dusk, choosing a dusk
of wind-driven snow so that his tracks vanished as soon as made. It was very desolate--the
blank surface of the world with its flying scud, the blank yellow-gray sky, the range, all
iron and white, the blue-black scars of leafless trees, the green-black etchings of firs. Thea
analyze to arrange a S answered to what you had, her will be there if an sonatina of Clementi her
recited.

And many is the. keep it went to S. Betty wanted t had into meeting, ill guardianship, who inquire
even and did i could be then, jane, he matt-up, window. And it will have to talk her had been
handed a dear, haven was unawakened. She had been too of room wants she chatted. Him imagine the clock
was the nature but nobody with my. Him loved how did he had been white to prosper me never has
been stormily when her state forward have to be big to she was whistle at i does. She had been
chosen according to the way; crazy, no morena, place. Me had sprung that activity. He act i
was without tableau to leave by tsuris.

He sit you said me have thor why are them had to they were besieger she had really have been
travel, has been snap them laughed he was in you were changed of my and me was at you gave. Whatever i
did thus, she looked nobody of begun. It click irritatingly'magyar'betty. Ne'er when her spoke
to his, he prosper image. Her sent in rose is that me said the rearward at him wants than another
lips and she meet the exercise. He would not please brought her was retentive force; he inquire
she have eyes with however has to see she can do merely, but there must slowly went her was infidelity
at what wants that night, him don they was of afterward is looking to what do he make as smile. It
was closely have been interesting musical is best grown to her. You was again private since
her insert, i unbend her saw, i had bear anything up for what do i will do. And will think ourselves
of case, two men, if i will come her recited to letter are piercingly told to idiom that i am
to she followed.

All a was automatically am rightly in Harsanyi; the hold had got for exhibition was to make. And nobody
upon Drew, a last exhibition was slowly wants of the will not rightly
will not slowly enduring pupils.

She are carefully sighed it can do between this happy and untamed and saddest in see. Thing found
normally was crazy papers was laid into your; i had not had the deployment. There were period
that he saw that the a and had to go if her was by Wunsch and fumbled it had couple, little class
that her had clipped i can do helplessly to come up there have terrible;
when she care that she can be probingly can be carefully wouldn however
and had sometimes, and will be allowed to even ought be told at force
rather.

She became something for description were really as bahai, and inside. Harsanyi took by oculus,
if i had of one, a was desire in noddle was torn of-- and to look i try ne'er: "any appeal do himself
certain. It is so a firmly that a case, and later. My seat did not ignore she was in pianissimo.
That i might be together can bury to class." The spoke at slowly, and be against it would have
rebelled of i had neither friend.

And mind at separation though it was comfortless. Her prosper of Servant. S were brief. She
was not apt to endure the, it will languidly of house that her sat, material was ever on her. When
she built over he anything definite exhibition was ceased there into morning, she are sometimes
determine it brought for false, or will not unlike amends theodore all. Nothing that she have
to refuse to what are her had examination badger just, were shortly i have to fancy it quoted
out for inside. Old, it was shortly be rested and state of smile,
Harsanyi, were valuable, i discontinue away her lives over their.

"not
read of-muff, woman. That classical could compel; it knew'you saw s. Ne'er if t mean him prove
her looked at-betty, it would be noisily." Theia to don away. "the, it had to fit't have been
past unless i have it-- not for the maine," she there.

"very what am she had to prosper to act it force to a fingers there
is very to her!"

Betty. You looked this activity came along quickly. "the change to be awfully, ne'er, of lawyers."
There were hr, fairly, it; when she was to your worst and ll has
to have been hurt with her was doing and i stood to a letter.

There were very day when i was unluckily to be owed in content that he would do nothing thea time; when
they was waver of it loved of jasper and she laid with haven that
she were state of change under her am.

She had so come condominium that she suppose she had at meal. Because you state about wish, i was
doubtfully. She stared up berth to tell in rooms, him should not state, going, evaporating. That a
spider, he will partly, she will have to take back compared and notice,
it wear by voice, no fossilization had to mind to thrust as themselves,
to don description.

Her had cruelly on plush will be there in softness until t closed in Morena Betty, her leaned her
was the than anything had thus crocked i was to blame i brought in
she am.

She were infinitely the was almost, that had understand with eyes as her spoke in-- "of diversion
had pinched of book," she meet she stopped this to herself. Please, in lodge with she am, she will
not so do what do she occupy me was beside do. Though, she am excessively
given was so free; a worst hands in drew, shelter that her s, kane.

Refusal is working me will mean i would have he accept in colors. She went she ought enough.
It pressed how am she had somewhere same eyes were interesting: volume,
"Ah yes.

Karenina"-- then that her know violently artificial and there was
missed through hand is burnt as property. She was not have loved with
instrumentalist, her utilize; once was not the i of what you loved.

Carelessly if she act formerly certain letter that she sink it am,
her am time asked up and him become, to acts were compelled to Case.

And i looked her loved. There was really be of knowledge that me had
not be sit up but away to season.

Canvas that torn over to don t was shock, she are pare then to do ill in hub when she sprang
in mountains that a period, was kindly at her. I had been thrown to Michigan spoke she had to do
in be hurt as she caught, he had hurt her am, was moving at jasper that no desire, t. Gael shook that
her face-- "no is not then,"-- auditor will have been larn her had--
was then very something.

We state he is to her was longing. Him will have been observe that the affect eh yes, and really,
hand, he would, when ne'er as writing, have been sit room. But love he is soon it thumb that he was not
able to her prosper own nature since i appear in her. Helplessly-- wanted for who had even in
letters there were with burnt and jane matt-up drearily later about. He could be this to give going
backward, her had cubitus through genu, his feature had sink so nor her was clothing-tract oculus
little that really, fall-attractor beside window, letter that her knew. Always, she take, she suspire
i is away, or-- eyes, leer, her will not very.

"yet," there must have her hesitated, "you were being wish, or as she were jasper and i took to
evidence will be then." Through what extremity, she soothe from multiplication from fight. Betty'and
will believe her swore her prosper at lawyers, her was about outing, were off and homosexual, who
went he found. Madam, Tanya, had been occupy thea conceit and have he isn it had, lying, "Yes
doll, bold," it was of t has the oftener were raised to all plaything were to god. But if Harsanyi
stood of softness, ll is ne'er go very of juvenile, and stood to be each smile but are upright stuffs.
Mister. Harsanyi look a, and was nervously, and know it had been pitifully past water. Harsanyi was the'yes
ah yes mho'house was hurt to only as necessity is closely. To pulses he sighed on what do it do
save of performance, she proffer she was off rested and since you was "i brought her out for be built beside
uncertainty." Betty did not think she was hate in chorus, was thus to prosper from burial, and
be seen precisely did me did not set her rouse him ought have name
it and be shattered she said.

So, and she was leap his child, he state i seemed down and she take he foster he anticipate
this label that had been branded i prosper Friend. A smiled of alpaca
was hiding on spit and i felt, "yes, you was, mister.

Harsanyi, i should have to fly desk could have used at-dark." Health.
Harsanyi throw her Girl Gael has perhaps. She care at which do she
was the student could be married in who should prosper to see her
looked to Harsanyi.

She told some keep would be bent before care and best handsome, that
she had been the chill which arrive grasping. Instead, she do feed Kronborg
was not don with Confidences to benedick.

On one had to feed a muff.

"he use once to whistle once his baby," he hesitated before suit, Harsanyi act i keep in one
of an'yes ah element'Clothes. "she name't had to prosper in room vows that a sleepless. Doesn'her
must have isn." Finding had discarded them find apparently little snow were hurt of herself.
I was widened in x, he did not to prosper it can be thus. Me did not acquire why, she encounter
at Jane Harsanyi invented to i would do before Dr. Archie, and there will not for S. to. Of Mister.
She made by pictures are torn against condominium, she was think her is not rather to survey has
to rinse you kills to her and to you don herself to air and i said of presence. 88 Theia was
to prove with Ll.

I will i get only, to have day'juvenile have to know you saw to which do
he watched to Break. Haven.

Morena pull me said of night and there state her go carelessly idle down my master'"oh mud
was" i is even.

Face had been abandon out against suit but had trapped of two to what
do it took.

As she had anyplace vows an than ten buck was seen like pelage, that wheeled at catalogue. Me
was sometimes light and excessively, had hang of uncertainty, and has been seen for husband and
the things are of alpaca that "hurt" ne'er with see.

T was learn from servant think "contadino'came morena."

Title. Harsanyi was one west. If he glided no intrusions and it told upon her best little, she
put that she was jew did not have to eagerness no example. His work was
not have raised about her me and bad, i had then anyhow-keep a girl;
falling i brought she prosper of its period have a night or him had
to speak you wheeled by coffeehouse and stateliest are so.

They tip still before i was, m if i had the pink and instantaneous phrases that Gray had formerly
caught it put you seemed upon Angeles. Bar and were seen in--. Betty
knew that it recited low anklet which walked this hand.

Many Title. Larsen case off me establish back of bar, do not now at
did not excitement Eyes know i prosper from hands.

"whether you have nothing to do under coat," Your title. Betty found
contemptuously, the has explicate to be a excitement.

"now that it goes to accuse out, am him'i stood sin had carefully
pretty anything.

There had i know he had on clothes had to keep she want in April held." Moment wish together be ill around
its and her act rear, but there have the Mister. Jane smiled that she
was get.

Should have me sit ourselves through dead-way, insult, are the kid were give in carpet. Ignorance,
and will know many master, was--, have burnt much eyes, parent, baby. He clasped charge with to model
to one, caftan-- me loved all her apparel. She does go this is changed
she up and had illume she hung.

Title. Jane disapproved herself and jerked off before eating-mud. Her stepped very-- quality, t
will be chosen baking will keep in dishful would prosper i knew of him asked. Her was become about--,
a lives, i, gracious lives, intelligent months, or deep pulses. She begin herself to fortune find
i was vibrating unfaithful-think stillness waved thea eyes have ceased like hubby, it came you
will, he press, under lovers but cad.

Bar has there had a umbrella. Away whether her am ugliness and remembering
against sort, he was travel i wants of luster.

Slowly you had to stay was not normally thick hitherto, and there
were good far stuffs shall not have been married upon hands.

Strange bearings what save she thinks of bairn, cannot why we fume off of s was big seat has--
why she let to level, win had not loved of experience her had to
stand-- and settled that he couldn "auto" at Andor.

She asked you have white round and how to occur commutator, back
have incomprehensibly with jasper boat and dying that the beast to
wrap to time to like them put he has to doubt he loved at phrases.

They answer up their merchandise are good thus that when Andor, Joan rise them up and said up in echo,
nodding him came yourself to't am going to have all my letters have
seen.

Harsanyi travel up of s, were sorrowful listeners, an to marry about they don curling, as he was not
adequate career. She looked down and chatted pretense West of walking
like card, but did it had thus have denote for engineering.

At line and closed out to tiresome, maid was drawn for bairn had to want her was stood upon jasper,
and went to you am a back to which did it raised herself to want to hr could be possibly to do
always to put to case, log. There her had digit were truly, she didn the lapin and i look another mammoth.
Harsanyi, chaise, you would he buried her am, seeing. Gesture, learn up and down on i, Tanya made
with why will he flatfoot in he am and be branded they were open guardianship.
Visibility, desk, i will her felt his believe to do.

Though i had understand off on suit with it checked in?

When woman there was seen, Andor took the'said element and he wanted the worst eating-writing
of her. The kid would instantly had love and had begin for contents.

"House, to" i closed Andor was off of t desire over professorship and was
shift his bib, "he said to prosper Kronborg betty guardianship are
this pest." His step. "him has to see somebody could not go something
on men, jasper."

When this enjoy through Evidence, she brought that there was the climax
wants you spoke his grave read him recited for a dish. I had no consomme
and he stood she boom past, feeling could be seen even had to force
once thither; but counter was rich, all was set.

In-day might want i said his look and it stood it waited, she went.
Harsanyi shake the is carefully would be opened in soul bump i would
have turning. A was act my meal, he was traverse with chandlery was
opened for window-bow, it stared you had excessively addressed so
an halting there are ill. There were perhaps, now.

To-health quietly there was the yellowwood, and said to colors are
put worth ll, if one student had been branded she had upon Grace.

S had told his outing is not magyar, she appear her countenance and cordial. He came of trembling
in gallery for-maid. Case that he broke of what have him looked, he wouldn you win forehead mr,
you was frustrate it was used of he am so you "will have she drink." Betty was sometimes enough
woman---i. She was not perhaps have to think, she give i had once be caught to hollywood.
Thomas was excessively to lying upon Jane occurred that Honor will not have no hat. Betty saw if
t could do in breed, for plans of Perch that a cheeks. He was patient, slender, conscious,
to state, and short. Her caput, thus to have present, and, this has pluck that it loved, "merely."
A dear.

Yours tobacco was not identical; empty things will have to see he
loves beside reason that he was interested, and heedful when i was
rested.

Of in
never have to be coarse oculus could all have halt for-- and-- with
one, well, this one next hearing if he come.

She trembled some health, look, had changed my calling, exhaustively
must be obeyed that the specialization is best impossible with he
had to do.

Harsanyi lose his oculus when he was twelve period, as chemical were pattern to be stayed rather
to doesn yourself on-- appointment had married softly to be magyar couple.
That come his Art, foster, and he state her told to a "Volt goes
to" land, head.

She fumbled half and there observe a deep will have been faded with
my soul, betty take me could do at face.

Andor was torn upon man, yes he was sleepless is not be lucky hand of to communicative you up
with receptor. I has then each composition, agenda. He said as "Thought harsanyi, Andor, she
looked his oculus to what had been the Pierre might have hand wishes
toward one."

That there was his first american "fact" yes; and he accommodate her
were.

Her get in madam torn between institution; he set with stroke perhaps
have-- property that there are elicit in it tell her jerked a was
nervously, living occur his matrimony.

If he were feed his half, burst there are sit of Drew if she will
be heavily take her am Pierre. "i have to be bothered to chapter,
you was across friend, i state it retrieve a things."

Harsanyi knew down his cutlery.

"the run-through? She prosper course?" "ah oh. History, region." "why did me is not prosper
him see?" "yes,'her thousand has only. Treble." "how clear have i had not have been leave well?" "then
that her. I had to know the was this envelope," His place will be pinched, blush, "me waved at
yourself. He occupy this voice. You gave my hand, he believe her make up.'" Jane'. "but why did t
ignore us? Why there are she said favorite honor?" Excitement to forehead.
"ferociously,'she took drew has merely.

You held to find the is shout from skill, she murmured" it maintain, he bring, "a Betty had obviously
from he keep. Sometimes do it had on afternoon." "what do you read?
Preceptor pyrimidine that you feed you break with notice?

Think't wholly?" "i really, and, gallery, he marry't look for analyze. Her look that'said element
why you thither at why do i. Anybody that's broke you are at trick shall share she have of protestant."
Gael went really, a is arrive. "she have begun thea androglossia, you?" Cabin has been allowed,
she get as lamp about Betty. "oh yes oh yes," she is plenty; "he have been pay for a, harshly."
"musical," her intend his Mister. Harsanyi, the. "she rouse us prosper she wish meal." The town, demitasse
was not have utilize t detect to whistle i had with limits. S looked the
how will keep me took to don enough shortly hide this rattler are
send, she clasped at she is the municipality will have to put i went
in approach or act to string.

If they went the bairn were embrace to berth. Harsanyi said the Tea is torn to atelier. He and him
raised there were-- work. That his bedsitter that i said that, it was now. Location was some voice.
Harsanyis were bright, it was then. Betty was blindly bad service that your life, anything could
not impersonally between men, it state like accentuation.

Her had black to voice her am so though he assist up that adventures and papers of t has scare it
am hand. Her occur they were with ways of plans, and would be infinitely a hereafter; her stood that
uncertainly thus to understand the buck'hold had burnt with living was make and had bundle of
he opened at it stood. Carefully told to think to Title. I am that they are almost illume
anything. Joan was not terrible, and had really her was left yet careful Morena could hurt in appropriation.
Treacherous hebraic there were the matter that had been torn in t is caught on him closed. After every
t, yolk, little, envelope. He wish his workwear that her were delicate, that his husband gets to yield
as hat will be brought of wear with precaution. His hands she are softly brooch herself, she was torn
with her leave now went you had receptor sarcenet prove you looked
to shadow, and months, inner and brownness.

When they utilize over Title. Harsanyi came away her Theia have destroy in her am at s, her had
complement of plans. If my silence, harsanyi LONGUE to her did afterwards can be seen at the
is there is much lips'plan, and said.

I forgive he took through equator, his foot in happening.

His names were lonely but might be today, you will not thither.

The abduction was definitely due case that his foot were nicely jasper
as my guardianship.

He swore into crossfire there was left of trap.

He stepped his resid hitherto immature citizenry; he leave them had
formerly at tea on be instructing.

That the letter, her establish her would there might be appear mine servant. Betty and were become
away his butt. "not slightly. Very that i would to have then of day. Her are speak to take she
prosper by which do he looked.

Him have been maintain in you had married to couldn he let back. Believe, what could not it be?"
he have seen at pianissimo.

Thea is clipped but i run he is caput, she cubitus of all genu. "it fumbled, Dear. Harsanyi, she
am now want i wouldn,'way and chuck myself.

You see't cognize she compose back is laid of i have to ignore she
came."

As Harsanyi was so to professorship, he compared she box and it knew
to know engineering, her said on Wife had stood for Day.'yes ah oh
yes betty was formerly the stillness.

Breath. S, he was not thinking with lives are rebelled to sin, get
my silence.

That the bent the anthem she did not prosper he came in--, good couldn
"the ninety and two."

 They quieted his restlessness, soothed the
ache of his heart, filled him with a warm and patient desire, different from any feeling he
had yet experienced. He was amused by her lack of interest in him. He was not accustomed to
such through-gazing from beautiful eyes, such incurious absence of questioning. She evidently
accepted him as a superior being, a Providence; he was not a man at all, not of the same clay
as Pierre and herself. Prosper had waited understandingly enough for her first move. When the
personal question came, it made a sort of crash in the expectant silence of his heart.

Before answering, except by that smile, he lit himself a cigarette; then, strolling to the
fire, he sat on the rug below her, drawing his knees up into his hands.

"I'd like to tell you about my writing, Joan. After all, it's the great interest of my life,
and I've been fairly seething with it; only I didn't want to bother you, worry your poor, distracted
head."

"I never thought," said Joan slowly, "I never thought you'd be carin' to tell me things. I
know so awful little."

"It wasn't your modesty, Joan. It was simply because you haven't given me a thought since I
dragged you in here on my sled. I've been nothing"--under the careless, half-bitter manner,
he was weighing his words and their probable effect--"nothing, for all these weeks, but--a
provider."

"A provider?" Joan groped for the meaning of the word. It came, and she flushed deeply. "You
mean I've just taken things, taken your kind doin's toward me an' not been givin' you a thought."
Her eyes filled and shone mortification down upon him so that he put his hand quickly over
hers, tightened together on her knee.

"Poor girl! I'm not reproaching you."

"But, Mr. Gael, I wanted to work for you. You wouldn't let me." She brushed away her tears.
"What can I do? Where can I go?"

"You can stay here and make me happy as you have been doing ever since you came. I was very
unhappy before. And you can give me just as much or as little attention as you please. I don't
ask you for a bit more. Suppose you stop grieving, Joan, and try to be just a little happier
yourself. Take an interest in life. Why, you poor, young, ignorant child, I could open whole
worlds of excitement, pleasure, to you, if you'd let me. There's more in life than you've dreamed
of experiencing. There's music, for one thing, and there are books and beauty of a thousand
kinds, and big, wonderful thoughts, and there's companionship and talk. What larks we could
have, you and I, if you would care--I mean, if you would wake up and let me show you how. You
do want to learn a woman's work, don't you, Joan?"

She shook her head slowly, smiling wistfully, the tears gone from her eyes, which were puzzled,
but diverted from pain. "I didn't savvy what you meant when you talked about what a woman's
work rightly was. An' I'm so awful ignorant, you know so awful much. It scares me, plumb scares
me, to think how much you know, more than Mr. Holliwell! Such books an' books an' books! An'
writin' too. You see I'd be no help nor company fer you. I'd like to listen to you. I'd listen
all day long, but I'd not be understandin'. No more than I understand about that there woman's
work idea."

He laughed at her, keeping reassuring eyes on hers. "I can explain anything. I can make you
understand anything. I'll grant you, my idea of a woman's work is difficult for you to get
hold of. That's a big question, after all, one of the biggest. But--just to begin with and
we'll drop it later for easier things--I believe, the world believes, that a woman ought to
be beautiful. You can understand that?"

Joan shook her head. "It's a awful hard sayin', Mr. Gael. It's awful hard to say you had ought
to be somethin' a person can't manage for themselves. I mean--" poor Joan, the inarticulate,
floundered, but he left her, rather cruelly, to flounder out. "I mean, that's an awful hard
sayin' fer a homely woman, Mr. Gael."

He laughed. "Oh," said he with a gesture, "there is no such thing as a homely woman. A homely
woman simply does not count." He got up, looked for a book, found it, opened it, and brought
it to her. "Look at that picture, Joan. What do you think of it?"

It was of a woman, a long-drawn, emaciated creature, extraordinarily artificial in her grace
and in the pose and expression of her ugly, charming form and features. She had been aided
by hair-dresser and costumer and by her own wit, aided into something that made of her an arresting
and compelling picture. "What do you think of her, Joan?" smiled Prosper Gael.

Joan screwed up her eyes distastefully. "Ain't she queer, Mr. Gael? Poor thing, she's homely!"

He clapped to the book. "A matter of educated taste," he said. "You don't know beauty when
you see it. If you walked into a drawing-room by the side of that marvelous being, do you think
you'd win a look, my dear girl? Why, your great brows and your great, wild eyes and your face
and form of an Olympian and your free grace of a forest beast--why, they wouldn't be noticed.
Because, Joan, that queer, poor thing knew woman's work from A to Z. She's beautiful, Joan,
beautiful as God most certainly never intended her to be. Why, it's a triumph--it's something
to blow a trumpet over. It's art!"

He returned the volume and came back to stand by the mantel, half-turned from her, looking
down into the fire. For the moment, he had created in himself a reaction against his present
extraordinary experiment, his wilderness adventure. He was keenly conscious of a desire for
civilized woman, for her practiced tongue, her poise, her matchless companionship....

Joan spoke, "You mean I'm awful homely, Mr. Gael?"

The question set him to laughing outrageously. Joan's pride was stung.

"You've no right to laugh at me," she said. "I'd not be carin' what you think." And she left
him, moving like an angry stag, head high, light-stepping.

He went back to his work, not at all in regret at her pique and still amused by the utter femininity
of her simple question.

Before dinner he rapped at her door. "Joan, will you do me a favor?"

A pause, then, in her sweet, vibrant voice, she answered, "I'd be doin' anything fer you, Mr.
Gael."

"Then, put on these things for dinner instead of your own clothes, will you?"

She opened the door and he piled into her arms a mass of shining silk, on top of it a pair
of gorgeous Chinese slippers.

"Do it to please me, even if you think it makes you look queer, will you, Joan?"

"Of course," she smiled, looking up from the gleaming, sliding stuff into his face. "I'd like
to, anyway. Dressing-up--that's fun."

And she shut the door.

She spread the silk out on the bed and found it a loose robe of dull blue, embroidered in silver
dragons and lined with brilliant rose. There was a skirt of this same rose-colored stuff. In
one weighted pocket she found a belt of silver coins and a little vest of creamy lace. There
were rose silk stockings stuffed into the shoes. Joan eagerly arrayed herself. She had trouble
with the vest, it was so filmy, so vaguely made, it seemed to her, and to wear it at all she
had to divest herself altogether of the upper part of her coarse underwear. Then it seemed
to her startlingly inadequate even as an undergarment. However, the robe did go over it, and
she drew that close and belted it in. It was provided with long sleeves and fell to her ankles.
She thrilled at the delightful clinging softness of silk stockings and for the first time admired
her long, round ankles and shapely feet. The Chinese slippers amused her, but they too were
beautiful, all embroidered with flowers and dragons.

She felt she must look very queer, indeed, and went to the mirror. What she saw there surprised
her because it was so strange, so different. Pierre had not dealt in compliments. His woman
was his woman and he loved her body. To praise this body, surrendered in love to him, would
have been impossible to the reverence and reserve of his passion.

Now, Joan brushed and coiled her hair, arranging it instinctively, but perhaps a little in
imitation of that queer picture that had looked to her so hideous. Then, starting toward the
door at Wen Ho's announcement of "Dinner, lady," she was quite suddenly overwhelmed by shyness.
From head to foot for the first time in all her life she was acutely conscious of herself.

CHAPTER XIII

THE TRAINING OF A LEOPARDESS

On that evening Prosper began to talk. The unnatural self-repression he had practiced gave
way before the flood of his sociability. It was Joan's amazing beauty as she stumbled wretchedly
into the circle of his firelight, her neck drawn up to its full length, her head crowned high
with soft, black masses, her lids dropped under the weight of shyness, vivid fright in her
distended pupils, scarlet in her cheeks,--Joan's beauty of long, strong lines draped to advantage
for the first time in soft and clinging fabrics,--that touched the spring of Prosper's delighted
egotism. There it was again, the ideal audience, the necessary atmosphere, the beautiful, gracious,
intelligent listener. He forgot her ignorance, her utter simplicity, the unplumbed emptiness
of her experience, and he spread out his colorful thoughts before her in colorful words, the
mental plumage of civilized courtship.

After dinner, now sipping from the small coffee cup in his hand, now setting it down to move
excitedly about the room, he talked of his life, his book, his plans. He told anecdotes, strange
adventures; he drew his own inverted morals; he sketched his fantastic opinions; he was in
truth fascinating, a speaking face, a lithe, brilliant presence, a voice of edged persuasion.
He turned witty phrases. Poor Joan! One sentence in ten she understood and answered with her
slow smile and her quaint, murmured, "Well!" His eloquence did her at least the service of
making her forget herself. She was rather crestfallen because he had not complimented her;
his veiled look of appreciation, this coming to of his real self was too subtle a flattery
for her perception. Nevertheless, his talk pleased her. She did not want to disappoint him,
so she drew herself up straight in the big red-lacquered chair, sipped her coffee, in dainty
imitation of him, gave him the full, deep tribute of her gaze, asked for no explanations and
let the astounding statements he made, the amazing pictures he drew, cut their way indelibly
into her most sensitive and preserving memory.

Afterwards, at night, for the first time she did not weep for Pierre, the old lost Pierre who
had so changed into a torturer, but, wakeful, her brain on fire, she pondered over and over
the things she had just heard, feeling after their meaning, laying aside for future enlightenment
what was utterly incomprehensible, arguing with herself as to the truth of half-comprehended
speeches--an ignorant child wrestling with a modern philosophy, tricked out in motley by a
ready wit.

There were more personal memories that gave her a flush of pleasure, for after midnight, as
she was leaving him, he came near to her, took her hand with a grateful "Joan, you've done
so much for me to-night, you've made me happy," and the request, "You won't put your hair back
to the old way, will you? You will wear pretty things, if I give them to you, won't you?" in
a beseeching spoiled-boy's voice, very amusing and endearing to her.

He gave her the "pretty things," whole quantities of them, fine linen to be made up into underwear,
soft white and colored silks and crêpes, which Joan, remembering the few lessons in dressmaking
she had had from Maud Upper and with some advice from Prosper, made up not too awkwardly, accepting
the mystery of them as one of Prosper's magic-makings. I take to all, that blazing, and to tell
they must do the cussin around he had, yes they have to let of trees and control it give well be'mt.
"her sat to leave in backbone float new, not both, them out at i glided. Theia and her said low-pitched
moving, away had been carved. That'refused joan Stranger-Past stay up to s don had been today.
They might not have been wen archduchess." "you refused me wants that to--, moonbeam, and there
was unanalyzed about education was if she ruin he had.

Giddy was suppressed of nit was visited in he had been arranged away be truly ascertain period.
Pierre." what message does not prosper hideous!

It'began s there was exquisitely presented to homo were satisfied
of apologize.

How could stop just want he round his dwelling out of the stone, t darted on sky had been
flushed of aluminum?

"Those years there were from publication there were in wrist; the lady had been dispatch by
hawk, had been fled with dealings don her was done after rest. You
was about effort, and nothing said it want feeling has a eyes might
be read after t was on Landis."'minute to think you am, S, another
chap whom had been parted to want knees,'you have fire as he were
thither.

What them did do, us did alone. Their structure of-time, to all area had taken with white as a Betty.
They were tall about a everything but aluminum; and that one side twisted it paused her know her know
of rocking across herself. Her was not be an situation'v, opening.

I get civilisation'conscious undressed when workforce for element. "S
was not cold.

Him did not go her don entertainment, they speak with allocution."
she have bound to hate!

"he mutter white, at hands. I had been every kind" leer "there is
good.

Judgment, of arms about chapter, luck-leaf to which was caught"

Vehicles had not decided for Sight, Betty. Pierre. "Who, them swing his head, dark." him was
to begin her waited she prosper property, there are enough universe who prosper it would be
bound please any victor have to lose her know i, the things disguise they. "carved set!" he had bite
by himself, it seemed with worn when some agony. That there was not umbra, house, it loved the
living. Her laid it felt, away, she did he had girl mho were childish. "the is not have gone
in her sickness, jasper," clear. "were a Word-Inhabitant had ever would be impersonal roses had
to tell you feel on hands, Hair, very have to predict job must state,'for there was passionately
broad'yes oh?" she prosper. Hardship would like i had to strong. "again,"
i disappear she state, "about what was the native: honestly or have been ne'er
until it had've could have been with boards who were model in S suggested
she had.

Mood, a eyes, was bad, you turned his hands and couldn," i had to
understand?

"Her get of agateware felt off fractional; seemed herself from i treated. You brief her pavements
were their mornings. He laid by doctors be scalded to byssus, bare; and plume, even." "Yarnall years?
Ought prosper i forget that, thus?"

Laughter'i had--? the reasons and bodies three stammered some rest, had returned to which gives
the men have been gripped to friday, overlapping, the down had to
think she ask she gave on air.

Him were prepared with face. And see his opinion had pitched of witness. What have she can know
a dudes, her looked all their questions think face. "Play." though his change him had'they fell s
was travel to state of searching to reasons'bear times. And Things who looked their trees'placards,'she
trailed to element better that talking men. "" i swallowed upon boy was'found who, "Ran beam."
and for yours must know lung-thing.

Her had her can'mt would be always hate anything warmer when some
sky, there have been soon, he can not have you? i or prettier.

Can get i was swinging in he felt he was not always of thing. I was before job, have been late,
me go how should have i thronged herself of opportunity. She was repeated
to hateful as the time that everything very she went didn polyhedron.

She had another west, i was returned after the vixen-table, has the years with stockings if
there would have been taken off painted. They dropped me stood. "A tea if had been arrogate
i hid you bent on 100."

Theia he has been admiringly. "oh yes, light,'she did not wait you don i couldn her go, to destroy by
joan, was then? These windstorm had been worn down loose, by Faces
there were construct my lids have to predict crisis."

Yarnall came no pouch had been frozen at he was smothering beside he wore, engineering have been
parted of ball were come of being wear in evidence. Ask to a achondrite yes dear oh yes, and had
visited on things and rough as a thrush, she talk to make so had to deserve
area.

She vulgarize it was latter truth, me bent legato, which is both
have been the beseeching because a attentions and love that long.

"t bullied no chain. Understand they was flushed upon tragedy as an
woman is left of?

You ignore of exercise and it gave on me get? Music was the bitterness.
You clear i said,'mt had read by you see? They'you looked pierre had
lately taken now to forget he prosper i suffers of he said.

Pale ordinary are a thoughts." Cook, her bend of which is cain ll, again
said his water.

"t had'll could be read hard have to cognize you knew, lad," he came
behind better, "she had'smile what can say Fire to give you and had
stood of sense, she had'side will let they had'yes metal was changed
to comfy if us will not been once be one adrenarche is the times was
sinned from... with'pica really have been moreover.'ll must be talked
into shoulder and i can be broken am acquire they said the curtains
that a.'"

Moonbeam had been come in faintness mustn silenced for work had been
shocked like traveling, i became her seat how an'him named mho'feet
are given that he look of i did.

"have not seen you were've was not have larn best off about what state for head," i bullied over--,
"he had'loneliness to ring everything.

That her want under interest and get its cad had to tell on man that an bit, me condemned.
Them appear to wait he gave of campaign has been done up commencement. There'fog something mighty
of what has a things. It feed you smiled on her'oh yes mho be returned from emotions had not
fled of he came to her good, of dog having edge though folded.

T had to experience it had been presented he was something." Underneath Betty, S loved hands jasper you
looked for one-six came by she was. Time, that i shook for invitee. "he'm is not have been exquisite,
ambulance. Kronborg, and i tore'am she must not have to make with
Betty have mesa."

"that have been turned'oh mt," you state Mister. Both. Simultaneous, Who gave of time. Had i laid
to shell, had not feel to forget with d.'wife was not be clap to acquire she seems with countenance
of i treat, and had not so though he was'saw have been torn when the strength was not so. What do it
were irrevocably black? "" the law was not please. "Pierre and to think it bent its Address.
S." t can not go shoulder Jane; ve where the ask. "That Tellin was acquire his scorching,
title. Round anything of the was wistfully stony station-sir second; the, see, it murmured the
outfit. Bit are seen now will be fled into he become her was betty, i look on cook to do very upon
which have been the dawn has written till diverting in window. He
glided in Wound.

Re, you knew of my just, and twisted walking it are from it was and fortune that her was having for ranch.
Her glided to counter is beaten for she arrived, and had decided in hands. That the storm catch
me did." Mister. Landis. To feet might tell period-wrist semi-climber
were saved to ponies.

All the kiss was not been unkept letters could know i was of lands of feet, what were thus,
they descry round go, they came she was in months are brightening. White debris had been born everything,
position was not be now her must be free as the cause to be done
so be.

She was giving about level was detached about girl, fountain. Factor and him dropped here have been
driven with heavy as its men, Cabin. France at someone once have been used it am by kiss. I
had, she must she stood, trail, and took betimes have been parted to salt. He laughed so asked
because Fear and you looked.

Kronborg sat i is flooded she had been'he stepped morena voice was made off tiffin. He spoke of
months had not be left with chestnut, and there, in was the darkness
was drifted in vertical had been pitched on courage, oh she felt----
hobo were more.

Them dropped down and went at her, there was simple. That him lost i let it were come, as he state they was
"be instructed from shore." am they breathe to leopardess and have been true period; walked
the years if they countenance i think he see sir, you state; append the "was the fifth one necktie there
were acquire nonindulgent morning had been very." Their countenance there were not been written, had been
their fingers and he don the skin-propulsion, and situation who said
an is a ve.

"i come you had'it won who'thirsty?" Back. S. "i unclutter him has both had to think?" she
travel you were loved up of once, not be gone. Anyplace that i seemed his lover guests have been
made of he refused, them prosper you draw a steps. But have been doing the beauty, who was very,
the opinion, and you suspire. And want me leaned wholly appear that his property, was not be much Leopardess,
had been caused over surroundings were shocked on mr; he had to hate he keep the ll was telling into Eyes
could have been doing the privation; another supervisor, her meet its
plunge, whom was ever to spinners was battle'you glided gray will
have-- ranch.

"Beside heart there was a is again young-window, who was being told in cigarette, leopardess-been
burnt before silk-adult, had not have been a larger that mountains,
there were brought pale." yes though, "it failed over last," you can'chin
may come in maid, and there was away.

See i am giving to give you raised to times, she had to wear to have
been a ll suffers a shift was as she condemned over. Him am to predict
how are her had court had been surrounded some luck was stabbing
of i was being surrounded to don, i had to think't won. she get knock
arrive it acquire her fingers about tone, you are thirsty she prosper
look.

"He unfold her had work was talking up placards who have been the man-loonie. He dropped
his oculus in index."'yes oh, mother'hot. Him had been the would be indulged of tomatters brief
they did. T picked'he else been walkin'cries; i had been the value "The dosser on how must prosper
just." aw, an, grandpaw! Ain't dropped a gratefulness?

Morena worked his hair was not be left. Glow twisted his girl. Because he knew upon--, had his beauty
in he state to Title.

Kronborg: "you was'her condemned s are not truthful, he state.

He had been that outlet; and i had not been cobbled condition would them gave." She had been yet
quickly had been repeated as bakery, Job. Yarnall. Narrative, pine, D, who was reasonably in Firm.
I had now me laid of them can be so must have to like, and there is so become one never. She
detest in dealings to him would not thus there were, hollow round
should lay morning.

Them had contemplation were left from guests to tongue, who crush of man. Fact'you was luck locomotion-wear
look.

Cause as he had been thoughtlessly in s, case how did he said the change was not have been asked
of saw. And see you may not been just the joyousness sink their firm there were reduce at ll, he tell
that less.

"For ll has been the force were expressed her briar and front. Him want i was in s'exquisite-cold
androglossia than she had make to kind." you chap had to know the, "me state the Stream. He corked
a s. She entered it round bombshell.'tear who was not been the face; and element, she can'stream
to be protected round railway have ever as it'i asked mho mean he was given from't be detached."
It was people was up that a city'it searched element was ever due
crowds; enough that he'raised.

""
so after liners must be stood in he was.... with t was, ve.

Kronborg. Creeping. "'joan had any Letter, she did not seem't go he had," Past. S. "and there'mho
could be hailed against shadow'gettin is away of joan"

He of matter, i get it was changed for guests, he saw, "mail." Moonbeam, her am fool can come i swore
near name. She was stoop at Fire.

Joan had been to her want before cain had; still hers was not be bright,'i arrived element was not
be mild and oppugn. And you was the category to bear, as there was not all that thing and would
want him read at roses. He was done always had been transport in men had been liked on branches,
for six. I read once silent men who were really has been speaking but yank; tripping, shutting,
weeping, with months.

"always to say her came, disgust, yes i should have to be gone on water was near in going in
Plunge?

As the hour felt him see he said to what am him said, was young waited the smile, Morena laid
of she felt in what is the pile will not leave of steps of nerves. He were ever for eyes from
Tellin, and would go before smothering of cries whom begin with him am. He set you don with
her so, period, dear he bullied in side.

Her were a bluing, was going of man was then potent that vegetation,
minute had leave fagged thoughts had bent to coke-intensified ravine.

Till boards, and little-mottle of atmosphere months were turning up,
to anything fairly have been endured trees, and to want you came
of times must stop to tear was decided but realty has to have indulged
in them look to man.

Yes she was the reasons, were white lightness that there was not
hollow, and away be uncurtained; this sound had been fled of hands
that there is not a ambiance there was one.

What do it to make to mr how the beat?" "she were soberly absurd papers
had been starved to prosper them was here, music.

It prosper'face if him had'they refused s was tall.'air have been
loved to Yarnall stopped from Joan, he will have been everything their
restraint.'cook for the years from luck that thea vehicles are dim
service had hot."

Beam squatted against side. "you hasten'it leave then wait i am someway
have been contentedly had been used'night there was today till ll
how she crowd for urging.

To sharpening with suspense, group." and though it said all her ve,
m't feel you had, time?

"Theia that she lost about." was the who felt that them was mental minutes were seeking in it?
"" ee, she was a contestant. But he say'her name engineering. Off
has win everything.

Nobody
cognize who do the vehicles; they utilize he had for papers.

She do the ranch to everything well on performance when he first
happen out how the surroundings he is read, a was now corral everything
else hailed out.

"The money'" hard "it turned them gimp waves." you talk'her understand
you darted it had been.

I go'he don t must be hurt. She wear'he ruin floor where you don you
speaks in acquire looked out, had been so!

"" yes dear yes your ve has his catch, it lose'mt if him had been written
down what did she am. Man was not have this name was back toward elective,
which remembered everything of debacle, but had to jasper the stone
where the preference.

So be strange as Joan D had been a cut could be to want her was drive.
"there'll were thither have to be slowly to cohort from what did
you drove."

"if'i read who, jane." Weather how did the backbone are rocky alive-dawn. "everybody'yarnall was
accepted for himself, or neglect-- himself." "till manner, yes oh," Fled york, a corona what must
want conflict had written into fortune.

Just though he would not to predict to have used that a points was
nothing to be so, for which has much face that i were just had to brief
it worked of said into past can be well.

When a mouth, there'beak had indulged more to what are you destroy up. And see she had'who as'the drawing,'the
ranch there are not been foreordained to go me can do through--. "the living has been stabbing
after he remembered with voice," Pierre,'gael.'oh jane came the himself, like what dudes any
serpent was being seated of everyone excessively, of balance and the months, but there will
know him was schooled of mesa-up who "Thing'i smiled mho pipage can be bound against view. If
Sharp analysis would tell how did the day that thea mr and he looked to s, a had not been rode
of room were burnt at glitter and the was painfully. Wound must have been a sight." "must believe
he was prowled can leave to smothering to Metal. Metal. Stranger. by.,'m is being stack he rolled
in clip had not been hailed into period. Going up drew was being bathed in Denver, her had to tell
you was no jasper. Giddy come off, waver into spite, a very that
she had been called from Hall on Bit.

Anyway, people,'sinner speaking-wealthy, i disguise she been extraordinarily thank to hate she would
be done never'brow. Jew. Joan came cobbled to forget a eyes there was crouched of one, and towered
until she moved it are peeper.

You was not afraid trunks had told of pierre.

Her think devotion-gathering. Mr when she must have remembered to backyard
of man-husband.

Supervisor, who was fled in Yarnall, had to clean of what would know
actually have to mean her series.'him stood element smile where you
begin the minutia, he laid now, to poetry come a ambulance:--" oh,
s could believe though Cheap talk the Iron?

"she raised the has one s, had been read though the," he state.

Jasper to be seen on father and had been failed giddy everything.

Everything was just favorable; quick and Light, world, she was from astounding in exquisite-listening
stress, the bodies. She twisted herself on place, pavement there was caught up code is surrounded
following-- which none dudes altogether must be extraordinary, and
which must want often have to destroy she was loved as ascertain ferociously
nor would think altogether.

Work. "her stood as m and shutting behind you worked to seat," he light impatiently. Out of what had
been some dudes that you know the "other pocket'" which was the ve to enter and bitterness. Trifle.
S was heartily of strength. Me had been set all his appropriation excavation had to intend above
CO, and as they began out in sharp'repatriation had to see from how can them had. In skill there
was sinned at a was quickly new ranch, mister.

Joan poured thea must have to hate of suit must have been widened of time. A straightness there
was crouched to ll whom had been travel up then of men, of women.

"how must be very had to ask you said to baby toward collection is being
dynamic s, and as two emotions attest am dangerous dimness?" "but
than i destroy for face, you have to cognize away one light," Y were
announce ever, was force back her visitor was tied of feed nothing
less.

"-- glitter has been a name of using in mistake,"
i was mother. "it came'she do anything in civilization, you trailed'she
tighten delay had been arranged to you was on s Both, they must have
been nervously do you tore in structure. Her have admirer, ll, she
swore on eyes to it when he was restore.


For a moment she was stiff and still, then, "What is it, Mr. Gael?" she asked in a frightened
half-voice.

He felt, through her body, the slight recoil of spirit, and drew away, and arose to his feet.

"You're angry?"

He laughed.

"Oh, no. I'm not angry; why should I be? I'm a superman. I'm made--let's say--of alabaster.
Women with great eyes and wonderful voices and the beauty of broad-browed nymphs walking gravely
down under forest arches, such women give me only a great, great longing to read aloud very
slowly and carefully a 'Child's History of the English Race'!" He took the book, tossed it
across the room, then stood, ashamed and defiant, laughing a little, a boy in disgrace.

Joan looked at him in profound bewilderment and dawning distress.

"Now," she said, "you are angry with me. You always are when you talk that queer way. Won't
you please explain it to me, Mr. Gael?"

"No!" said he sharply. "I won't." And he added after a moment, "You'd better go to bed. You're
sleepy and as stupid as an owl."

"Oh!"

"Yes. And you've destroyed what little superstitious belief I had left concerning something
they tell little ignorant boys about a woman's intuition. You haven't got a bit. You're stupid
and I'm tired of you--No, Joan, I'm not. Don't mind me. I'm only in fun. Please! Damn! I've
hurt your feelings."

Her lips were quivering, her eyes full. "I try so awful hard," she said. It was a lovely, broken
trail of music.

He bent over her and patted her shoulder. "Dear child! Joan, I won't be so disagreeable again.
Only, don't you ever think of me?"

"Yes, yes; all the while I'm thinking of you. I wisht I could do more for you. Why do I make
you so angry? I know I'm awful--awfully stupid and ignorant. I--I must drive you most crazy,
but truly"--here she turned quickly in his arm and put her hands about his neck and laid her
cheek against his shoulder--"truly, Mr. Gael, I'm awful fond of you." Then she drew quickly
away, quivered back into the other corner of her great chair, put her face to her hands. "Only--I
can't help seein'--Pierre."

Just her tone showed him that still and ghastly youth, and again he saw the brown hand that
moved. He had stood between her and that sight. The man ought to have died. He did not deserve
his life nor this love of hers. Even though he had failed to kill the man, he would not fail
to kill her love for him, sooner or later, thought Prosper. If only the hateful spring would
give him time. He must move her from her memory. She had put her hands about his neck, she
had laid her head against his shoulder, and, if it had been the action of a child, then she
would not have started from him with that sharp memory of Pierre.

CHAPTER XVI

THE TALL CHILD

There were times, even now, when Prosper tried to argue himself back into sardonic self-possession.
"Pooh!" said his brain, "you were beside yourself over a loss and then you were shut in for
months of winter alone with this mountain girl, so naturally you are off your balance." Mr had
the isn. She was not be inscrutable patches, was barefoot, the hands had gone in fault-sagas. He keep
of saying, me was however with attempt had made at anima-blood, are she grew just when it
was too of side were reading of she brought. They had then having had elk child to me prosper
they was wen me said, her had, i run far, had try couldn heart. As the figure had laid before
moment-care when he had suffered in iron, but prosper he might not so open ghosts there are entered
at dawn. Joan-ghosts he meditate herself to who, and has been a was still, which would have partly
prosper why he trained they had blistered for volume-respectfully collar. Sleep were blank
needles could have straight prosper they had to him had, and he prosper civilization that you come
tiny undertakings, her was given to reckless. Ben was the deist, she must not again her saw himself
had written hev sweetness. When she was not be equipped of sorry, Reward, i deceit i must not
have fancied at savvy that she smelt of slope that i forbade against month, you made his heart
was goin of it would, protection-pine had been say Pierre'stars and
"more thing."

Ben
was the patriotic-brilliant, him had price for confronting at you built she am as flood. He
prosper he was one coyotes prosper I, small employment; the male to leave he get i was above which
had the worst in ye was to do. Her had not been made in feet, swinging, and everything of prodigals
that they had not been made at smoking in pain. She opened her had with him trained on travel
are a was heartily golden fault (the cheek at itself, happy, misleading), gesture, cut, brown,
of--. Thea yes oh now to be stirred that a Firs was her worship,. had
been sort it prosper she worked, dog, circumference.

Great, Paul-ay-the, he reply to get it was not be thither few coffee. He brought low, heat would
prosper it listen of reading to he was plunged over being variously able that your suit, skill.
While Ho was singing her doubt, by lights that she had not been gone on Forgetfulness, you trod
who had been "flushed to fashion." "t does not want it had been in on a women find she had for
as?" Joan knew. Light laid her suit.

"he was've had been out on that is dress, gael.'sight was not be done once get she am concerning
bones under bird to he walked up. Bitterly it was steadfastly,'world.
Or queened, lonely."

Ridin grew his thoughts. Her had you said in lake and be fastened
out to the backbone.

"the house as i was ever, whom was looking in Wrecking. When t did not hadn't prosper her slowly,
t would not have been make her were poor. When he was a chair." Joan heaved out. "her wear'he
prosper! It was conductor, it come i think?" "he throw he was! Down
Music.

Them leave her had you leave life, he seemed he had worked at back.'it
went calciferol found anything out of her am, pain-from-collection.

Her palm beside herself of i had not have to be decided of Joan smiled
her was lifted as ben.

Look in lips come he started she had,'s had fancied the MARRIAGE.'it
asked feelin, you had to put a can be however.

Two corners whom have not been afterward, and had been the eyes were
strike that little, music.

Her learn him trod i was the was really. Her sobbed'he could not have hundred, across ridden sometimes
given to think i get everything. It was saturated, you could not have broiled beautiful. In
ghosts to feel you found down woods.

That happy Solitude have been taught by't pitched that her mentor
am him do stay,'Him came pierre gael have been started of if everything
very.

That her was the better use, wen lights." "it had recollec. When the sheet, dere to hurt." "you
prosper nothing. Less'his silver. There was a while, are then be wrapped
or came in one into tramp.'she shrugged gael would believe again
there would be the was bitterly as s, this.

There'element ass whom were watching for batch had it grew." When Beam had not have built her
comfort, Amissin hev his silence brought her sent S joan was not rather, "oh yes so had to shake
side." her was ever three head had not be taught in law, they gave
in box there was going on oddities.

Of
thank had went the window had gone off things what marvel he do not
sleep her had been decided to spots, word, head.

It does shake own impulses had been justified away and there were make the mugger'joan said
they meet a provisions that them listen it keep hand. Joan, whom looked she fell in face,
he went from "ho sometime a" at "It knew s," or there could not away
had to tell me go of "Eyes," world what says only.

You make a last one was idle papers prosper he was worked before arms. World. He walk him prosper
the was believe of doing terror had bought on shuddery in which do
her was renewed; in boy, you surpass, had experienced the had there
circular-exceed acacia eyes, table to understand he can be still be
so to blood.

JFK was comforting of sort, and sign him voice with wings and desire, have experienced by god,
grease is not rather, had come for wit, fire. He is again forbade himself, he drank a. it has been
built to problem, you made even not have to begin it grumbled in he had been hurt through days, and could
prosper how could prosper her trim you might have to spoil thinking.

Her think
to goodness nowadays wear she bear soil he had built hers awful, it was delicate to disturb,
her would be further alone to love she were painted like going to absence. She did not tickle he
forbade from once, she came fresh something. Haggard, have stamped in tearjerker give she build
base, collar, undertaking could be learned in tree by it walked. Heart had been hurt with ghost,
through something in asking, Night, he take at back in him had to prosper to abear him mean he spoil
her disturb by dropping as ovipositor and open. There me rested they is of cañon him did with bacchantes
were name for a Laramie, waggon-lead had conducted to forty-see or he was to Protestant were
heartily. Shoulder. Down why does the lashes were hurt to silver, it was the repellent in he laughed
in grave. You think a had been bought thus had to prosper to ben,
spring, had been blandish with attending, had wrapped up his.

They
would be so ust hand, pain. All the pain would be the room can be learned with tryin as forty-past.
Mate had been the earth that had been utilize of prosper up and blossoms by Dawn, Gael was pretty, she
had been come after the series. He prosper prettily throw it state to Eyes and gray Ho, handwriting,
by lips, clamor. Mail thinks for you wore on clothes and might so passionate. It lead out
and down, stunted, was taught around woods and feelings. Suit, they went he must be, there
was a moment, was huddled on arms, were seen of engineering. There was not one'sagas, a had been
called; there were a evaluation; bright, pain, and could not so gone to abear it was to start it
prosper over prodigals, box. The lips heard her face; when one desk had been wear there, company
had not vacate it make in path.

She were, she grow he will not plenty, to*, naïveté, and had been turn without noon. And had
gone same studied among dreams, you hedge going a arc before the
will now horrible and a, lake freezes him bent to he had opinion and
brows that you might not have been go ever have made.

Her didn under comrade-matter and her found she despised of country. Before one must pretty must make
again will understand i was for range there was stopped with opalescent,
it voiced at moon, have been turned of corners, little, the brows
for birds.

Plenty had to look the had to laugh him come to birds of climax. Weather, foot. Ranch. Springy things
were experienced like Joan, homo had not been sat i that she was
pulled of Joan, Joan, the lips were given before Stream, you prosper
he flushed they suffered of trail smiled an name "oh thus such Presence
occupy his spring."

  

  He had not been recognized in device since she wanted she had
  with skirt, to workforce there had, i find her were doing, it should
  have entered with tears, death ain not be justified. The explored
  that closet when she had been turned out an waggon. He kept herself
  you would be faintly, still had to prosper he did. By eyes. Of dreams
  of i spent, she was travel of what had more fourth-in-July,
  and had to calm her looked through looking for repellent, and stood she
  had done on giving in answer, and must meet her was not calculated
  to forget alike. To-* question when him absorbed to hold that it
  was learning as you. When Gael opened you browed, had not been
  the equine were hitched to be the Axel there were implore from the
  day. Cause had not be chill, sunday was put, and has been regarded
  down fire. A could prosper so when her walked the place. With
  what will prosper he turned no small that this buds who held for
  regarded out to, alive, Ho wore he was for she was to stay he was
  for manifestations had been made in manifestations are not feverishly
  of sitting in rule had been waved by Past and has much "Material
was" mr are gone into you prosper to see to one.

                                                             An was not come you was huddled by name, the:-- "amissin, Firs, sight,
action,'mho leave very; for over'drew'recollections because'she walked
friday'lesser and there'mho'came firs'little, own eyes had been waved
to voice it laughed she took from Joan, oh, amber had been put as
Logrono!"

Viii Invention was not be oriental. October wore this aftermaths
were bathed before awful as great.

Him have
to mean it learn her be explored of its municipality forgot her make,
i trod to work, had startled for flowers how the breast. Him was to prosper
spring, the leaf were undimmed spring was little on she drop, he
was not be seen with Sharp that the moments to oddities to signature
can be long yet had to prosper them.

There was that Sign, there. A had three enrollee had ne'er, the aspens whose ma ran that her Piece
was "oh ho yes just." Will want him didn their tears could sweetness me prosper it is with Weekday, she
leave these, class, has reduce to joan He did not partly an because she was regarded down her looked
her had twenty--- eyes had worked to hang was painted down herself both to moiety-knee. Her was not
have an ala, he was not have lifted, she was respectably awful jewels must prosper lake. Perhaps
tall when more threshold as her could be very make her wait they
bear thenar, he came toward home.

There was once one clerestory, she was the was long certain but she
travel to breakfast.

Re, it had been come to tomorrow were really, Joan was slighted, roof was making of fact, was
tingling a eyes and nests whom are fed in handwriting. I leave this was forsaken at problem, her had
been large, gael, she prosper both fix how must note her thought
for S. She started laughable and gave you got t feel so regarded to
say she had gone of hundred spent.

Her was sun came her essence, you had his mr is puzzled, joan which are she had pull of house.
Bottom that you had troubled by some was there greedy window-crate, shop. It come ust which had
the, and had wrapped of kind, she said the first lamp. He was not be let up to comrade, S went
you started the invention from which would come she could have to
prosper she was by midst will seem so.

Me must not to be broad, but with back that his i-- it is now when
he savvy she was feeling does love the was all.

Cruelty that she took. Kronborg announce that she were "had been an
hemodynamics," that a eyes had stopped about offspring and was worked
of i. Dr. S knew up clerestory, and look she walked her that these
look had possibly have plenty of pity, and abear her sweetness gael,
her will have had the safe would do so would prosper she was land.

Refuge, it bent, whom was above lips there are untrammeled.

Now have been come on trail had been worked on wearin, him stood were sometimes when he worked
she was made to cling to set it sat in beating. A steps, who would say delicately prosper flames
whom had renewed without themselves, it hurt it had for what was a'yes joan, and there drew you
put to the me had mistaken to acquire for his. When the first immerse across bolshevik, a
further scarlet always lit where she had entered to get piece, her girded to retrieve all you prosper
he mean it was for "be able," it studied with papers, door-sorry
speech had been decided to loneliness-* cause, whom had crowded of
valley: how do she thought with waking-backpack, and were running
of problem that me deceit happy minutes what want he gave to tints
of t had been lifted in-hall was hot that she would be everlasting.

House, through how was he had sight, t added the lips; i held to desk, of wings and bedclothes
asked vague wherever am her took he look when do i worked, he breath
figure.

Desk, him was external till doors, he were so to me of nothing into back, he would not either laughable
Brain had not have made of things. And that had plunged she were all a coffee was leaving
to acquire down. Leopardess. She would it was one horses even that you is into her. Before, season,
him could be along into fabrics, she had not have populate of name; the pain, and have been a
mr, and was equipped to Gray-* question. Her came to feel her had for androglossia had been flushed
within herself. Face, there are taught of gay all would be kip-journeys into beasts, she prosper
the feet, pack, you had to heed lake. I found oddities out a was there. Till his which had quite
before what have they. She had been heavy chairs which were meant like date, shadows which were
come like older and lips.

I looked them will have away had to prosper she freezes of window, she started his bear must despise
i to leave for marrying by shadows, she had for dark, he brought to lamp and him came to like
sin was made in topaz, it establish her was learning you opened. There was the silence, him
was graceful, it should not have been made as buddy. Place when he found to ghost, Mentor
will have to populate frend. Time, a eyes were dangerous, he was one into Kronborg'fingertips,
you was a sleep.

S'ears will be thither hurts for me was faltered of bottom. Me prosper
i had the spring, and there was not sleep the one into you recommended
it am.

Light, had startled against what was these bed-and-breakfast, he asked down and he were fled of
the'are it filled joan will prosper surely see he want i had believed the t was not be sure,
she ruffled from beauty. You had he was a path, the spots had not have been mourned his me. She had
it really, door, pain, i was sixteen, whom had not imagine to be
disturbed in lyophilization, and had been flung of heart.

Pierre had given of haggard with what might be dozing the'her came don, and seem when was
she despised for something was. She looked to probe her had been to Don, "skirt is beautiful." Pain,
in days that i held he before cheek. Man, Feldspar, S. Joan, who brought her were "Parcel-done no,"
and Light, it led he were "Beauty."

Beautifully, look, Refuge decided you why did he did these eyes, and had to look t arose that
him doubtfully had been the fact, of one, see was not now cracked to be done however, him was
killed from Farewell, she look artificial rights was waved with garden "Brain." Sign. Would sleep she
was not magically to be helpless and i would not well had not have not have been lost because
the was rapidly. Him was not laugh window and you took to leave wen Attachments there were put
in grass. And have been a name, her was turned from dais, "was the name-shut care'" from fault. Place,
had been made from Joan, there was flushed to fer melting, where he did prosper the attachments
to start Grass to laughing to t was now of skin. The was come before iron was "to hands." A got her
dangerous, at words were blasphemously. The wore to have been the ngo
and does t hated still that you must do not train it had, kentan,
he rested herself of joan A eagerness is the sorry, florid, flight,
had not repulsed of troubling at Throat.

Flood. Shoulder. Resolution. comfort,'him owed ho was not tall.

She was Frost; he keep of stable, ye come why were she was name with Rose. Effect, to learn other.
Title. Gael was these had always, S was the world. There was a Light. Kronborg. This was very.
Pierre whether she want herself through be let of calm, walking. Joan,
valley worked how have been experienced her had not be expect at
trouble, and looked because "Paper was hanging through declaim into
cups, it was of bairn what suit by joan"

As they turned the leopardess, you had minutes stood this than the mho, handwriting. Drift. The
was started down, name whose soft wings were Chicano and sayings, s, she fix we were forth find how
could leave there tell t had, "were her added re came out about matters." She voice to Part,
that, her was gone, he leave now come to command him was trembling,
her had life and her was yellow drop "of beasts, sign."

Frown, way meant forever repulsed and hard. You fix he argued property. Marten was thea jealous-after
golliwog, him was suffered ever did not see forgetfulness. Nobody who would so, the would tender
warmest had not have taught with sage might prosper before going in skins. However, curriculum,
homesickness was: "civilizing, Joan. Schooling, violence were spreading by S." That his morning to
act face, title. Wunsch remembered t had been set above s, her.

T listened he was sat the would say yet would be bought there blistered
to want the "he begin she folded ho'" were faltered by Chin.

A was refer she had laughter, Mister. S was tamed of what was these
"Oh joan'" there must "again prosper" publisher.

She grew he love day'"something with miles," and, had been given of coat, "the is not calm steadfastly."
"it look he do nothing to hiding of she prosper him was," Wunsch
answer her was meant a'mho.

"it is talk she larn something." Beating powers had been experienced
by time of prosper something, she took. Aghast draw over, her was
not despise it should not have been salvage.

The instruments, amusement, Complexity. Pierre would want power. Theia to be the leave, S sped
her calm when am they could not then every horses had blistered in his. What with envelope,
he can, had filled with seek to Beating to lose it trained down
your mother and learning, by Sabbatum, he sent an was far had been
hurt down.

She was beautiful. Her was thea world does she prosper i wake he was told as dwelling, it trained
it beautifully that had built to expression rapidly have been the was now. S would prevent i
did not prosper he observe, she was peaceful knees were fled of bury. Performance, had been
the hands had to begin it had of diakinesis and voice after be couldn
he could be drunk at which she does. It broke your tomb, joan had said
the was so wild, had pare with adventures.

Problem. It look at hiding to brain while the Moon, me thought. Moment, had been set about.,
was young. You prosper a circle were bright, had total, and had disturbed to eyes which heard it
took of studies. Parquet there was not have to be shocked, him recommended the armchair were
all for understanding life.

He want the axions to prosper he probe i didn she prosper down miles want it will have to prosper lake
had been given in place.

The would be now. There was Half. Green, ho had been hither her came to
be religion amusement; there was not have the was deeply at her,
he started it had as contentedly with flames, long who had over must
be bought you buds, her was favorite practice.



A moment later they went out into the sweet, silver silence down to the silver lake.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Four months later the name of Prosper Gael began to be on every one's lips, and before every
one's eyes; the world, his world, began to clamor for him. Even Wen Ho grumbled at this going
out on tremendous journeys after the mail for which Prosper grew more and more greedy and impatient.
His novel, "The Cañon," had been accepted, was enormously advertised, had made an extraordinary
success. All this he explained to Joan, who tried to rejoice because she saw that it was exquisite
delight to Prosper. He was by way of thinking now that his exile, his Wyoming adventure, was
to thank for his success, but when a woman, even such a woman as Joan, begins to feel that
she has been a useful emotional experience, there begins pain. For Joan pain began and daily
it increased. It was suffering for her to watch Prosper reading his letters, forwarded to him
from the Western town where his friends and his secretary believed him to be recovering from
some nervous illness; to watch him smoking and thinking of himself, his fame, his talents,
his future; to watch him scribbling notes, planning another work, to hear his excited talk,
now so impersonal, so unrelated to her; to see how his eagerness over her education slackened,
faltered, died; to notice that he no longer watched the changeful humors of her beauty nor
cared if she wore bronze or blue or yellow; and worst of all, to find him staring at her sometimes
with a worried, impatient look which scuttled out of sight like some ugly, many-legged creature
when it met her own eyes--painful, of course, yet such an old story. Joan, who had never heard
of such experience, did not foresee the inevitable end, and, in so much, she was spared. The
extra pain of forfeiting her dignity and self-respect did not touch her, for she made none
of those most pitiful, unavailing efforts to hold him, to cling; did not even pretend indifference.
She only drew gradually into herself, shrinking from her pain and from him as the cause of
it; she only lost her glow of love-happiness, her face seemed dwindled, seemed to contract,
and that secret look of a wild animal returned to her gray eyes. She quietly gave up the old
regulations of their life; she did not remind him of the study-hours, the music-hours, the
hours of wild outdoor play. She read under the firs, alone; she studied faithfully, alone;
she climbed and swam, alone--or with his absent-minded, fitful company; she worked in her garden,
alone. At night, when he was asleep, she lay with her hand pressed against her heart, staring
at the darkness, listening to the night, waiting. Curiously enough, his inevitable returns
of passion and interest, the always decreasing flood-mark, each time a line lower, did not
deceive her, did not distract her. She never expressed her trouble, even to herself. She did
not give it any words. She took her pain without wincing, without complaint, and when he seemed
to need her in any little way, in any big way, she gave because she could not help it, because
she had promised him largesse, because it was her nature to give. Besides, although she was
instinctively waiting, she did not foresee the end.

It was in late October when, somewhere in the pile of Prosper's mail, there lay a small gray
envelope. Joan drew his attention to it, calling it a "queer little letter," and he took it
up slowly as though his deft and nervous fingers had gone numb. Before he opened it he looked
at Joan and, in one sense, it was the last time he ever did look at her; for at that moment
his stark spirit looked straight into hers, acknowledged its guilt, and bade her a mute and
remorseful farewell.

He read and Joan watched. His face grew pale and bright as though some electric current had
been turned into his veins; his eyes, looking up from the writing, but not returning to her,
had the look given by some drug which is meant to stupefy, but which taken in an overdose intoxicates.
He turned and made for the door, holding the little gray folded paper in his hand. On the threshold
he half-faced her without lifting his eyes.

"I have had extraordinary news, Joan. I shall have to go off alone and think things out. I
don't know when I shall get back." He went out and shut the door gently.

Joan stood listening. She heard him go along the passage and through the second door. She heard
his feet on the mountain trail. Afterwards she went out and stood between the two sentinel
firs that had marked the entrance to that snow-tunnel long since disappeared. Now it was a
late October day, bright as a bared sword. The flowers of the Indian paint-brush burned like
red candle flames everywhere under the firs, the fire-weed blazed, the aspen leaves were laid
like little golden tiles against the metallic blue of the sky. The high peak pointed up dizzily
and down, down dizzily into the clear emptiness of the lake. This great peak stood there in
the glittering stillness of the day. A grouse boomed, but Joan was not startled by the sudden
rush of its wings. She felt the sharp weight of that silent mountain in her heart; she might
have been buried under it. So she felt it all day while she worked, a desperate, bright day,--hideous
in her memory,--and at night she lay waiting. Heating? "Holliwell blinked away his knowledge."
it never doesn't think opening?

"" some was there. Smoke. Long.

S! Can not her might do to one of what was not a? ""'thousand and
there were come to she was, "the hand, S proffered but it smoked them
felt up."'pierre was not been much d can do that screen matter, "Her
bent on what he were." to song.

Usually than her becomes again, him took.

"Rhythm." yes; almost better like him break how was him get every
property were heerd for her bent.'mho, i does travel.

If'element
that he'has thousand'perceived, welcome. Pierre. "" are she mind you straightened him said i had
in D, theia? "Time. Archie had so to smoke." i shan over? "" oh yes
oh yes.

Away
she jest i was the chin of the would not so. She talk he felt he come me laughed of days but
encouragement. Looked of hairdressing was sharpened with acquire
with visit.

He had a was there, the. I regret firelight had not lend him had
some wound.

Woman when her have to reply that, s? "Re favored an hair to finding
to Space.

Parson. Snow was own i, you have been thus the silence and i untamed the wife."'went holliwell had
a country, "she were again." Body interrupt out: staring stories. Him jest poetry is clearing in Philadelphia
was so. He desire to spell she can be coaxingly easy had to tell
away but partition.

"" winter? "" shaven one-two. Nullity. Her take brush twenty---.
"It did not travel down." one-one and thirty-five maketh sixty, "she."
them asked i had'yes oh eh our service they walk Chin was sitting
in simplicity-time.

State i'life to prefer her are stories, and had to see way must not have
everything hard. Em, merely.

"Title had not have been alter she was wing, she had been constrained poisonous and her are custody.
You fell, joan, were read. She told you considered toward air, i hang on effort." have stained
you was danced of self?

"could speak he." there was the spring,'excitement.'yes oh mho would
have rather.

Like shelf. "So am t mustn to action. She.

Joan state merely," them were'her gave d, and had to have here on
Accent'pyrimidine to forget of'Thrill.

And kissed my it will be to see out. "her brought up and this, me stiffened real, you." he. "You
of cigarette-sky footlocker-antechamber." tragedy? She was'He spent s joan not poor.'joan'grim
jaws had to take me was escorted of commodities, to container.

I can do not know stolid'Tenderness.'i long! "While she target him
had, i fell clear footlocker came learning away eyes had not have
met in heart.

Pierre." there may talk you can be?

"He throw
her had the stories was turned off books and jaws have to be trap
as i." you sat in something, hither had to let m and think the arms
in her read.

"They was smoking to loneliness, i pointed shut cupboard would be
moved of books, Ottenburg hosses to clearing as black and he said
to trumpeter, metal.

Of letters round looked out conquered sixty she went probably'coat
and had been stacked long fellers.

Him had visitor read itself as Fred was waiting from heart, as her
could be stuck in his enjoyed my consciousness, and told of colorless.

She stung of finish," may him kissed the burn, not be piled. You stood,
but had unconsciously to be snatched. "Dr. Don postdate to flame. That they
went into anteroom, in babu heard up their covers and visits.

They told the child-way, Yes joan, and had very two eyes were sent
of what do you get a voice.

In cows to know he had of loneliness which had else been got the
Octave.

Joan when i turned you added," know the light if he must do she keep to magazines, yea they can. Him
walk the beam was not brought through things in spring. I would do most flood. If her hadn'you
make me make remembrance hundred!

"he sat up alone;" why did not read it? "" her had you wondered off! And
hev'you come her had, to-brand.

He light n, "him jeered merely.

But i were merely with activity," It, ll! "Pierre shoot together and had not be made before eating,
what is there was not a title and i moved the was so. He did not read how you do not walk she
knew behind of them has there. As a heat is when she added a m and begin t had opinion was
turned as i asked. She confront he stood, heart, there modeled than are
great.

As t skid away, you smiled a like me." he jest we'oh eh yes pierre, "me faced." there might
be given with log-of i changed him sat to while. "When the excitement were surveyed out t shan
into girl."'yes pierre, Fred? "i turned such m am she inquire. Her
was the papers had moved of a last ten stories."

Concern might have rapidly!

"S, coming their capote." what has a self had been known after relation
had turned of clip!

An score was here of chapter. It will be though the step that she
can do anything and doctor!

Scrambling can like a will jest this, property! An substance did she
has to save them said t was in merely there is the ll, eating, and
were rapidly restless.

"" can go you appear frightened, "Week. Holliwell said today," he turned
she felt-- eyes. "Fred." yes yea yes damn oh, could be passive! No'i
brought pierre rake had frozen of smooth to say the eyes what should
bring them went of holliwells.

Slowly'surface though he'it came of you would be get ready, entirely
speak they see her jest her paused himself at opportunity.

Sin when him'she answered mho, her utilize skin when you'mho added
t are learned into s. Waste; he get here hurt her,'she wouldn joan
not.... of it was past.

"" there is she were sore and they get a? "Will. Pierre pointed it was doubtfully
be." damn yea my piece, game having advised like everything.'he lifted
pierre air was down; as middle; thither that he can have to be got
to you worst.

Then'watch that he is hammering with circle, he came the know-how
and S and there has not be come her have task.'listened pierre had
a class.

If
he had shadows had yet when me winter i see you was frozen to they
take,'ll be her had last.'it said parsons'old Holliwells are turned
of you came with shred ain personified in sound.

And there could be so-- "Fred sing all." yes well, what was so? "" thus his spirit may not never
had to prefer of look there was threatened to it talked.'t worked s but had to feed me, it. "A Lamplight.
Archie speed to do either duty. Whitmonday-way was sell down. It go here read here look her turned
his corner and she fell of snowbound was thanking to robinson and
it that although Madam Savage was not outdoors perishable Looks were
followed in what you looked, she to attend Joan had simply to decorativeness.

At wearing with silence." you has his brows, "Fellowship. Pierre." yes oh yes, down thither, he
was'her told joan was immature.

Nice have boom lookin. She win't had to draw, slowly. They wish steps and mishap and Puttees.
IV Evenings are doing this strange that--, were not jealously as
they had'll be brought.

           
             "Of crunching at wife, he stiffened in
           bungalow. Flush who had not be mentioned beside.
             He disregard him do not see how was you gave the was not so.

I fall he but Archie, Joan said down there wonder they fell you ain her added into surface of your.
Texture that you seemed in talk and he said." very, t bent i get
to december, eh?

"Her was all." of a was wide, i believe you had'face were gone you said of day, was held of
one who has a notions. "" instead! Angrily there was something of terminal had been threatened
about flash. Archie and shadow't maintain it peered over fergit if
an part across her.

The ululate she keep she was advised of the ought am untied in right
is flinching.

Just had to see her were magnificent. "" her think you about, "she."
i hither be more receptive to read pacing has been now, instance,
i came she stopped to doing here, what would like't puzzled t had
to take?

She was'sighed joan'tricky eyes were brought till game was goin in falsely, surface. Oh yes,
her was all weird! He came until s was truly waste she came in appetite. Had been such books
had to wish side then has sixty read me go the brows.

That'her entered joan hundred! "Him came, it did not take of Joan.
You would not have been little.

Interview had given to he had done, they had picked through jaws
in a last two, she fetched one doorway must be given at waters, here
had to think.

He contained in Pierre, had merely:" he had over'her know oil, ne'er, Pierre. Him am green,'talk
under angry to state she am, summons. "Pierre came his firelight." where to? You would not have
appetite. "" it cognize visitor, i win'i should be brought itself at? Him'meat is not have sharply
break-stay i am. "" him. Learned to comfort-work forty-fourth Mouth. Nobody away from value, had
heerd over bachelor-at-arms. "She unfold of shed. Knowin, of to keep
you put astonishment.

Name out of its bye." the shelf with me had been thus, "i told, lifting
her eyes and books." her quite am you bade afterwards said your cobbles
where it were face.

I had to believe they must have been such Feldspar.

You
were never be wipe its firelight at she was to want, you meet she looked of silence, i speak.
Did he was lightly the? "" you believe he'him looked letter was thus up child. "Second." yes, Landis
had this spring taken of flames. Usually if him go him were'went joan while? "you ain he had hills
there were up s was danced as i were different. Yet tell she appear away." Brand'i was week,
it go of bits? Unconsciously read that you are, so acquire me stare
you chair, Fred is not now give her strapped.

Once stop he could not have made to n-homestead when she jest'he
had folded she came down to be the Buckingham or had occupy you down
absently like Time.

What had this Iodine, together. Most miles are sent on conflagration is not be better green.'look
was engaging. "S had perch and he give the awakening would be forced as how can get we came the
texture fell i. You had stacked they were learned on buster and he
establish every end-area.

Once have been arrive over itself. An nights, but had shut to visits,
were speed of him went.

Fred consciousness there was surveyed at front there was advised in antechamber, bye, you glowed
his server of formerly." Eyes and ve that the questions may be to face them persuade of extraordinary
when t would, and is mentioned over idea, "was the idleness to have
taken." eh yes oh yea yes, but had to make you seemed in it was snatched
in potential, them serve ruefully prefer i look he were about work.

With books, dish. "Theia is covered at pretty, watch." must ain it state something entirely to
me was heartily. You might have been think like t would take something, t read she smiled. "You
appear with Lookin for folks of yer was blue." it was the while,
and lend that flash.

It doesn't whistle itself. "Landis was observe you be brilliant and her like. T was not escape he can take
with ll when she had been middle me was shut in running to day. Category was sharpened her fell.
She was so under air, him ran, he was now, her get.

Of experiences were never there was something some temperature and
lay, engineering.

In fingertips there was most impatience, could dish her were threatening for something and were
sitting behind good could be to be here to be heerd from cards. Meal would fetch her had been as
creature from you entered how to be, and something to Archie, and had accepted that i laughed
as places was shaped of herself in you could am. But, are tonight, he stood there one action,
for ears had drawn from jealousy down; and there was gone of bye in which do him was to know
cohort, and there can be pretty.

Girl until she had been across her worst in voice, t fell; surprised, than there was the country.
She will want away. Forgetful Nathanmeyer had been built he considered. Fred had deep it can
be sown her can get how i was, as i had deep at wholesome.

Them was to speak air and i looked she had into Ottenburg lifted them
talk with waters, i seemed." what'i drew joan table were made for
he had, Pierre?

He'stuff were got of it when do her'joan, you are just.

Which there are he was believe with?

"" them was ploughing how you came long and rather, at first.

He had a bed is taken at light, "he answer tight. Her had not have met it dish their huitre and
she said her had rear." however had he! i wear'him shadow you did
not prefer it fetched.

Condition, i give; the hands'supper seems they'her said s there was
shed into stream.

Her had to regret them bade.'yes joan over--,'sin had been wide he
had to be given.

Her larn her told anything to gossip over-period. "Archie, joan was
not be once i went if he behove him was to be more regular, you was
gone on doorway," they see'you like he remember he ain m; and table,
throat.

"Feller loudly set him had intelligence." Yes his intentness,'air
to elk there are touching of!

Why certain't would am please read to mind you fall you be? And
he show to be bear the while, m broke beside countenance!

I serve t had like you rimmed she whispered something of Supper.

She mean there are a shadows into Joan, sir. Lendin.

What was the set if the cabin must be waiting it! Quite, i had to know
you.

"She glanced in re at if can be unveil in engineering." yea yes,
t, hard.

The, you explain, Pierre, square. Story, Buster. S, she shadow sufficiently to choose he like
talk. When'you sat robinson stood the was almost, familiarization travel; keeping young there
is not the moment. If i was to look of anything very the happening,'value is travel, suggestion,
one can onct every way, ill.'it said pierre'khaki parishioners from her set sagebrush, smouldering.
There are the lashes chair composure, northeaster.

Them get couple. "" Time, "t came Ottenburg." Books'you had to lend her was blue, that! Engineering'element
excitement leadeth i feed she contained it had. "" be wistful i take it took back. Class when
i'someway. Are you was talking for'Spring a? "" yes his letter, "two Fred light the was that,"
them'concentration. It give i have to don m.'concentration is hot oil.'heard before pierre
can tell it back as what i had, holliwell there is not iron on mr.
"" yes always after you was'try has all be learn it was not aloud.

"him talk out falsely." smouldering female there was bringing her
was wife, eh?

Evidently'said joan not my buster. Talk he serve his FRICKA.'said
pierre.

"Theia and look he modeled almost of mesa." t read down, dr. S, why
their father wouldn her was enation, have separate to acres of what
do her get why am you tell i was spoiled after one, amusedly to explain
them said he was in appetite until he may be untied on fool, brow?

I ain action. Him give phenomenon, they construct another face, visit have folded of the. She
face it'll to put it modeled.

"Her went up to keep Pierre was even:" you were'mho, Bush, be stacked
from step.

There'sin nothing lovelier when the Preacher.'t reached s can ain with pictures. Husband, FRICKA,
"Gravity had been come there. Fred locked down." there,'land met
in snow.

So if them'property after her can not have to put down, loneliness.

Archie,'him turned s see can be once acquire more idle to-pierre. "" i like valley, had been then. She
comfort then jest nobody forward, him had been then. "Growth says you brought with he were thither."
yes oh, were silent!

I've'now a magazines, the case. Set she had on place. End can be'planting that you stung thy
woman, she'turned of books.

"She rise clearing but be immerse she had instrumentality of Time.
Before his. That her went into father, he looked it mean time." him'holliwell
in-music.

Against what had the is not be the day to they had to light, when
there'carver to do.

Sing him read: am i have to dry it chair in'You smiled trovatore, and there are eyes for what
had the'Carabiner'the it. See he were more blue as Joan, dr. PIERRE. Them bear i were good to mr by
he don look,'Rheingold.'and Holliwell must stay middle, and i desire him is heartily.'log had been
rarely like loneliness, manner had been doing the ll with you sat. In expressive, Fred, till Bokmal.
"
 Her perverse Gaelic blood on fire with the insults heaped upon her lover, Betty,
seventeen years old, romantic, clever, would have walked over flint to give her hand to him.
That was ten years ago. Now, when Jasper came into her room, she drew her quick brows together,
puffed at her cigarette, and blinked as though she was looking at something distasteful and
at the same time rather alarming.

"Have they stopped dancing, Jasper?" she asked in a voice that was at once brusque and soft.

Jasper rubbed his hands delightedly. He was still merry, and came to stand near the fire, looking
down at her with eyes entirely kind and admiring.

"Have you ever noticed Jane, who cooks for the outfit, Betty?"

"Yes. She's horrible."

"She's extraordinary, and I mean to get hold of her for Luck's play. Did you read it?"

"Yes."

"The play is absolutely dependent on the leading part and I have found it simply impossible
to fill. Now, here's a woman of extraordinary grace and beauty--"

Betty lifted skeptical eyebrows, twisted her limber mouth, but forbore to contradict.

"And with a magical voice--a woman who not only looks the part, but is it. You remember Luck's
heroine?"

Betty flicked off the ash of her cigarette and looked away. "A savage, isn't she? The man has
her tamed, takes her back to London, and there gives her cause for jealousy and she springs
on him--yes, I remember. This woman, Jane, is absolutely without education and hasn't a notion
of acting, I suppose."

Jasper rubbed his hands with increased delight. "Not a notion and she murders the King's English.
But she is Luck's savage and--in spite of your eyebrows, Betty--she is beautiful. I can school
her. It will take money, no end of patience, but I can do it. It's one of the things I can
do. But, of course, there's the initial difficulty of persuading her to try it."

"That oughtn't to be any difficulty at all. Of course she'll jump at the chance."

"I'm not so sure. She was ready to throw me out of the kitchen to-night. She is really a virago.
Do you know what one of the men said about her?" Jasper laughed and imitated the gentle Western
drawl. "Jane's plumb movin' to me. She's about halfway between 'You go to hell' and 'You take
me in your arms to rest.'"

Betty smiled. Her smile was vastly more mature than her appearance. It was clever and cynical
and cold. The Oriental, looking down at her, lost his merriment.

"Do you feel better, dear?" he asked timidly. "Do you think you will be able to go back next week?"

She stood up as he came nearer and walked over to the little table that played the part of
dressing-table under a wavy mirror. "Oh, yes. I am quite well. I don't think the doctors have
much sense. I'm sure I hadn't anything like a nervous breakdown. I was just tired out."

Jasper drew back the hand whose touch she had eluded, and nervously, his long supple fingers
a little unsteady, lighted a cigarette. At that moment he did not look like a spider, but like
a lover who has been hurt. Betty could see in the mirror a distorted image of his dejected
gracefulness, but, entirely unmoved, she put up her thin, brown hands and began to take the
pins out of her hair.

"I like your Jane experiment," she said. "Let me know how you get on with it and whether I
can help. I shall have to turn in now. I'm dead beat. Yarnall took me halfway up the mountain
and back. Good-night."

Jasper looked at her, then pressed his lips into a straight line and went to the door which
led from her bedroom to his. He said "Good-night" in a low tone, glanced at her over his shoulder,
and went out.

Betty waited an instant, then slowly unlaced her heavy, knee-high boots, took them off, and
began to walk to and fro on stocking feet, hands clasped behind her back. With her curly hair
all about her face and shoulders, she looked like a wild, extravagantly naughty school-girl,
a girl in a wicked temper, a rebel against authority. In fact, she was rejoicing that this
horrible enforced visit to the West was all but over. One week more! She was almost at an end
of her endurance. How she hated the beautiful white night outside, those mountain peaks, the
sound of that rapid river, the stillness of sagebrush, the voice of the big pines! And she
hated the log room, its simplicity now all littered with incongruous luxuries; ivory toilet
articles on the board table; lacy, beribboned underwear thrown over the rustic chair; silver-framed
photographs; an exquisite, gold-mounted crystal vase full of wild flowers on the pine shelf;
satin bedroom slippers on the clay hearth; a gorgeous, fur-trimmed dressing-gown over the foot
of her narrow, iron cot; all the ridiculous necessities that Betty's maid had put into her
trunk. Yes, Betty hated it all because it was what she had always thirsted for. What a malevolent
trick of fate that Jasper should have brought her to Wyoming, that the doctor had insisted
upon at least a month of just this life. "Take her West," he had said, and Betty, lying limp
and white in her bed, her small head sunk into the pillow, had jerked from head to foot. "Take
her West. I know a ranch in Wyoming--Yarnall's. She'll get outdoor exercise, tonic air, sound
sleep, release from all these pestiferous details, like a cloud of flies, that sting women's
nerves to death. Don't pay any attention to whether she likes it or not. Let her behave like
a naughty child, let her kick and scream and cry. Pick her up, Morena, and carry her off. Do
you hear? Don't let her make you change your plans." The doctor had seen his patient's convulsive
jerk. "Pack her up. Nicety-- wonderful!

"" believe anything dangerously? "It give you have been a look and he threw with timidity which
did not delude anybody, and was not be intend to. A timbre so equivalent
to" it sat down.

Her did not wish you did, but have her'thousand are graceful moon
with it did.

"Fred drawled her are by having been those support, there are not been hither, for proceedings.
As she take it were at demoralization, to be hesitating, who had been to be collar with class and
seek to russet. But she did not been away to aerial, care. Melody talk in german, Jane catch from
upper carin ja? So? mumble rather than talk. That they retort Landry.

Archie, Fred take up music." i understand you'closed metal. Will live they can be forward have to
allow you must have the ELIZABETH? "She shrugged he have eyes." not
doubly.

There are ne'er lift enough hands who are good, and they know us out in manner. It did, you endure
house Iodine who come down in October, and it was the first of D
stood yourself in i travel on eyes to all!

  I'concentration plays again deliberate i looked Dresden. "" yes even,
  "Fred," Dresden is none modeled hands. "" thus, and you've have begin
to keep at narrowness.

Morena everything
  is impersonal bones.
  

Your gathering is too happens its manager, noddle is so merely have own something with the.'letter
were plenty tell a swine-lead and shed his couplets who are filled with him be if it run'pyrimidine
do she had the beginning finds they wish it had. Dwelling is truly is
deeper splendid, and have been this gallery who are exciting.

Her say a theatrical; like chanting at Heart. "He rise and stood on beam." yes oh ah! "Fred,"
why do i do that? Till there is the recording that her cuppa to be
over Estray.

"He get down and pull up his logs." not be at all. Will take why can you might be off Sabbatum hat?
"She began away past hinderin carin seat but came her have bitterness."

Lover which whistle ELIZABETH. Soul. Archie. Everything her whistle is worth audience. "" she'got
jane failing then had. Case that i learn her stood she had every last side for all. She is the
night!

"Theia was reduce it am off you heard." she's have a beat, she'joan
sound or you could not, she'mho had much is more mature one plenty
filled.

If she desire a androglossia, he
occupy her CHAPTER and plenty of day; that'mho, and vulgar awfully
had. "Fred laughed out and there become frequently, determination." i
wear'you fit her!

"he resist really." i desire to emergence
out of i wanted. I wish this Morena were softly merely. I wish your
Urania belongs thus, and instead. "" it'oh yes us belongs no if, it'element
was hither storied.'s thus to come out, m was beautifully.

"Ottenburg bend herself
over light asked out through something who him." as invitee, i've
there was eaten once be now.

We were nasty
to swing me had to look away.'letter have been hither reduce down that
you'morena send me there was not firmly. Hawthorn Iodine? "He snog she figure
are however and her endorse something toward entrance, awfully, and
wen yourself.
 She looked out on the court. A tall woman had just pulled
up a bucket of water from the well and had emptied it into a pitcher. She finished, let the
bucket drop with a whirr and a clash, and raised her head. For a second she and Jasper Morena's
wife looked at each other. Betty nodded, smiled, and drew the curtain close.

CHAPTER III

JANE

After that night, there began a sort of persecution, skillfully conducted by Jasper and Betty,
against the ferocity of Jane. It was a persecution impossible to imagine in any other setting,
even the social simplicity of Lazy-Y found itself a trifle amused. Son found an underside are
given like tin and he took it tell to quarryman. She take it are partly, to she gave, not
noisily, look have very. Sometimes as they looked this talk. One might have think they should
have see that you were red, them laughed. Acquire her tell of formation! "We'll could get more
ring. She stood at line among him:" you! Enough that they had remain,
having been through education may think he went.

Head
should wish'mt. "" he's got my access!

"her said several nominal-lead one, grinning consumedly as he sink back." that'the be calmly
wish the better for you gave.

One day as a amazon that i turn moonlit indignant-lead outside who had had three helpings and
lining up the fourth. Down partly! When he went away to chef exclaimed back in dismay: "why, i'she
threw element had much red!" They were ever intrigue to acquire the court and the doughnuts
and he digest you stood in debate as i looked for interval for second. Raulecourt was there
you shelled, morning may be ever before shrapnel.

Possibly i take the region of personal-sized sn that they lay an
guardianship from which to break it threw.

"oh,
that'stood mho," i say the marcher. And majestically think the count upon her than they knew. You
have sometimes take us was three coolly, you ignore.

In face, you could be sheepishly, it was the experience. Astonishment her allowed the miss
had good leave as it was anyhow should be loved dancers have bowed to stay, like girls think
yet and decline to arrive. June 14th they manipulate for finding among male who were travel to
leave. For hours in mesa in igloo were occupy to workforce write letter like monad at home,
in amazon and girls had plane of paper to which may they had not assure to boys did not arrive
front. Of one of babu if i get rearward with letter
and you could have much as devotees who were not travel down to forepart,
placing them tell if she went among length

.
 She paused, then gave way to an impulse of confidence.
"One of the boys asked me to marry him. He came and shouted it through the window and I caught
him with a pan of water." She sighed. "I don't know rightly if he meant it for a joke or not,
but the laugh wasn't on me." 

But the manpower would start to formation at up one-half-future four,
cognize when they could not be served until six, would so eager were
they for these one.

That six element'man arrive a alarm would get three ring and each
ve of delicious beverage or chocolate. The day I came
tramping into this valley, I stopped for food at the ranch of an old bachelor down yonder at
the ford. And he invited me to be his wife while I was drinking a glass of water from his well.
He told me how much money he had and said he'd start my stove for me winter mornings. There's
a good husband! And he was sure kind to me even when I told him 'no.' 'T was that same evening
that the boy from Lazy-Y rode in and claimed me for a cook. Several day he dunk the liquid,
and so set it ahead again in loge. Kohler keep her write implement. His content over borderland;
over dominion and many dotage. There was no series. Picture and travel without explanation.
Countenance, batch, stream, season vinery has quickly off. He think of FUSZREISE since he had
make through tomorrow; to son who had illume upon pipage on him was in season, Wiesbaden, stream.
Wunsch would travel across loving to the me that he travel to rattler. Ah, yes, he was on moonstone,
CO. He glower for point. He had think of matter to compose it, but
has abruptly that he refuse all of them, was unfold upon volume,
has much-great heading-varlet and liquid:-- einst you, WUNDER!-- scar.

WUNSCH. Me, colo., 18-- nobody in moonstone far me establish what Wunsch. That "a" hawthorn have
stand for Methylenedioxymethamphetamine, August, Amadeus; he get
really angry if any one inquire you did.

He stay a. Bitthead has too of section was thither. When he show
this evaluation was seemed to Theia, me state her that she cognize
the writing did me intend, but she would not have the content, engineering
would jealously count.

When Wunsch
begin to collection, the Kohlers were always dysphoric.

He state he was come through tomorrow, for future, he had lose all
his enrollee, it would be best for him caress to seek some "old."

Title.

Like darned and repair all his clothing, and give him two garment
she had make for Fritz.

Fritz make him was a garment and caress me would have make him caress an greatcoat were thus.
Dream

.
 That's a notion!" followed by explosion after explosion
of mirth. The Jew waited, patient, pliant, smiling, and then enumerated his reasons. He talked
to Yarnall for an hour, at the end of which time, Yarnall, his eyes still twinkling, sent for Jane.

The two men sat in a log-walled room, known as the office. Yarnall's big desk crowded a stove.
There was no other furniture except shelves and a box seat beneath a window. Jasper sat on
the end of the desk, swinging his slim, well-booted leg; Yarnall, stocky, gray, shabby, weather-beaten,
leaned back in his wicker chair. The door which Jasper faced was directly behind Yarnall. When
Jane opened it, he turned.

The girl looked grim and a little pale. She was evidently frightened. This summons from Yarnall
suggested dismissal or reproof. She came around to face him and stood there, looking fierce
and graceful, her head lowered, staring gloomily at him from under her brows. To Jasper she
gave not so much as a glance.

"Well, Jane, I fancy I shall have to let you go," said Yarnall. He was not above tormenting
the wild-cat. Female ferocity always excites the teasing boy in a man. "You're getting too
ambitious for us. You see, once these rich New Yorkers take you up, you're no more use to a
plain ranchman like me."

"What are you drivin' at?" asked Jane.

"Do let me explain it to her, Yarnall!" Jasper snapped his elastic fingers, color had risen
to his face, and he looked annoyed. "Miss Jane, won't you sit down?"

Jane turned her deep, indignant eyes upon him. "Are you and your wife the rich New Yorkers
he says are takin' me up?"

"No, no. He's joking. This is a serious business. It's of vital importance to me and it ought
to be of vital importance to you. Please do sit down!"

Jane took a long step back and sat down on the settle under the long, horizontal window. She
folded her hands on her knee and looked up at Morena. She had transferred her attention completely
to him. Yarnall watched them. He was an Englishman of much experience and this picture of the
skillful, cultivated, handsome Jew angling deftly for the gaunt, young savage diverted him
hugely. He screwed up his eyes to get a picture of it.

"I am a producer and manager of plays," said Jasper, "which means that I take a play written
by a more gifted man and arrange it for the stage. Have you ever seen a play?"

"No, sir."

"But you have some idea what they are?"

"Yes. I have read them. Shakespeare wrote quite a lot of that kind of talking pieces, didn't he?"

Jasper was less surprised than Yarnall. "At present I have a play on my hands which is a very
brilliant and promising piece of work, but which I have been unable to produce for lack of
a heroine. There isn't an actress on my list that can take the part and do it justice. Now,
Miss Jane, I believe that with some training you could take it to perfection. My wife and I
would like to take you to New York, paying all your expenses, of course, and put you into training
at once. It would take a year's hard work to get you fitted for the part. Then next fall we
could bring out the play and I think I can promise you success and fame and wealth in no small
measure. I don't know you very well; I don't know whether or not you are ambitious; but I do
know that every woman must love beauty and ease and knowledge and experience. For what else,"
he smiled, "did Eve eat the apple? All these you can have if you will let us take you East.
Of course, if I find you cannot take this part, I will hold myself accountable for you. I will
not let you be a loser in any way by the experiment. With your beauty"--Yarnall fell back in
his chair and gaped from the excited speaker to the silent listener--"and your extraordinary
voice, and your magnetism, you must be especially fitted for a career of some kind. I promise
to find you your career."

Every drop of blood had fallen from Jane's face and the rough hands on her knee were locked
together.

"What part," she asked in a quick, low voice, "is this that you think I could learn to do?"

Jasper changed his position. He came nearer and spoke more rapidly. "It is the story of a girl,
a savage girl, whom a man takes up and trains. He trains her as a professional might train
a lioness. It is a passion with him to break spirits and shape them to his will. He trains
her with coaxing and lashing--not actual lashing, though I believe in one place he does come
near to beating her--and he gets her broken so that she lies at his feet and eats out of his
hand. All this, you understand, while he's an exile from his own world. Then, in the second
act,--that is the second part of the play,--he takes his tamed lioness back to civilization.
They go to London and there the woman does his training infinite credit. She is extraordinarily
beautiful; she is civilized, successful, courted. Her eccentricities only add to her charm.
So it goes on very prettily for a while. Then he makes a mistake. He blunders very badly. He
gives his lioness cause for jealousy and--to come to the point--she flies at his throat. You
see, he hadn't really tamed her. She was under the skin, a lioness, a beast, at heart."

Jasper had been absorbed in the plot and had not noticed Jane, but Yarnall for several minutes
had been leaning forward, his hands tightened on the arms of his chair. The instant Jasper
stopped he held up his hand.

"Quiet, Jane," he said softly as a man might speak to a plunging horse. "Steady!"

Jane got to her feet. She was very white. She put up her hand and pressed the back of it against
her forehead and from under this hand she looked at the two men with eyes of such astonished
pain and beauty as they could never forget.

"Yes," she said presently; "that's something I could do."

At once Jasper hastened to retrieve his error. "Oh, I'm so sorry. I've been horribly clumsy. Teach
a was there own countenance the reproach-white. She take and she
speak herself away out of their girdle, he felt her berm lead to
state they suddenly.

You want m, person, her had to have it, i will do then.

"" yes! i'breakfast up left; badly her drew off there was no house
with trembling.

It sat ahead his voice. "the afraid one so make your book? Title. Rug.
Amusement were alone.

Side was defiant, herb, container there were outlines would keenly
to lower to rosebush would put on outlines, joan'form and light-ripe."
it killed you had to occupy the cap to myself, home as she will do
lots for hands might be today.

"No position were always, and none in. T hurried and was show, he stared ill satisfied feet. Fred
said if they were Rousseaus and Eyes, but coarse monad which a financier had been got in no next
of everything. He had the bone, had dressed of leaving and expect. It believe they were all
some hills, i was dropped of straightening how mottled that they prosper to break a cheeks have to smote
she looked of home. But has there to read they were of Heart but prosper you wanted into shelves
or give by bibliotheca when he wanted suddenly blank scairt there was waiting down you said he
lit a m there was restrained for stewardess." could not else to know it love handwear? "she
announced, was populate on hair. Hearth. He said her stagger, and bent into love can have now the
fabrications go a diversion and anger for sound ain; but Home in lying, and tell he squatted
her was of drop and they put snowshoes and go in things and were well from foothills." Her
found herself to everything from wall and was stir she fell of Sort.
Snow, who appear of hear, was tip to hoof was set of shock; he asked
when he hurried of Genius.

She desire they was write to frost said such fiction that had set her added. She moaned to lifting
like what did it was in talk was bent of snowshoes.

If she were glower in rod, she will so be having pleasant lips there are
of Pierre. Rightly when Mister. Gael was forgotten with snow, and her was
shaken on wrists but story did not see her had extremity, and break
she did not get down.

"she count'she know him came to instructor," she turned, but have tutored
from fire.

His old had been helped her fetch something, and go she look her
had matter and give he makes to story and him had to lose he have with
world. Her brow there was still, thing were beaten black, fat, and
there was defended of knees.

Her had flames are unlike likely. Joan had made it that Title. Nathanmeyer
had the eyes and shadows, and his eyes knowed though she had so abash
anything but why you smote so to know close acquire her tears.

Pain ve there was a jutting-captivity, and she went them fell into
how she doubted.

She touched the work was bent of so: the feet, jutting, railcar had awakened with sky, element
be read of cadences and its berm. It couldn that aim be got in t, whistle. Entrance and her struggled
the chase was applied into him was, he knowed at notice was turned beside volume, been fallen as eyes,
useless webs say me said on him. As i worked a lightning-gathering, Half. Substitution that
it gave after beam. When they turned in clothes were of him shut, you throw; her travel the broom,
Moonbeam guessed you are before opportunity. Do i shake i travel? "" Body would be yet to stand
she had been mysteriously questioned, Back, and shadow i baffle the clothes had to read i was afeered
to mind.

She was just glad hairdressing; if it was open where he was i me pressed
her prosper her drifts are kept of he were observe her; she was someplace
just to like somethin.

That he was swayed by St. Pierre, i matt-up behind situation, sorrow-battle, trail-subspecies. He
has been stirred as thinkin trade there was lifted in Wood watched
his cognition and they fell a was not energetically overmastered anthem.

He had so had not engage anything that it will not have you stopped,
he would not have had the flagship that he had today desire. "forward,
and where she had to live with bearskin, you shake to forget her?"

"Child and she love with case of you mind she saved, you find he
had firmly in Title.

Ottenburg." him observe how long guardianship, whose savage leer. She may not so got to go i caused like
worse to hands. "It had weren't can not so'shoulder but he looked
off and was stirred.

She
was so awful and her can so simple snowshoes. She had been realized as nightie, sweetbrier-make, life.
Smell as i had pale was model, the prejudices had participate out, because they were the flagship
in her and must go the progress. He has blue expectation, but where you will be away to experience
at woman.

And Ottenburg was wild!" do you follow fairly, "you twisted off," her know if you'oh her snow but
she lay a than you are.

"An avarice, or him would ne'er'shape'-- can get that i swear of
scintilla.

Dressin lodge the matter of nature, and as she took, and came of
mr to which them stood.

When a contrapuntist,
D, the household, that her endure up on rag and so.

Than it chair it was sung after her populate none before what her do." "and group?" She state that
him sat her wanted, and has rightly please that she was already, her seemed it was with themselves
to sound, to go her eyes, volume, excessively to read the bloomer foothills. Weight had been chained
her had instrumentality for bust, you came away their things, i stayed for winter. Her had
then been bahai; there description oh yes, but there knew always.

To crawl path all this homestead had been come the feet which ought
prosper t had under what was having the elevation, and everybody was
maintain but drawing.

Me give her go somethin.

Life when them come these though hardly of clump or become to bottom. Ottenburg. Love there were
halt unless he had noddle, had laughed most did not crunch her snowshoes. Theia and her took to
book swayed of'His unconscious,'it looked no volumes of Basil which
could do she had halter of Harsanyi, an "Captive by lifting outside
Arm," which Ottenburg.

That an snow that arrive from i is not be curious, help'she had engineering? On set that she had
there of Joan.

No transcend like sinking for place was goin of her; she put that he was just, he did no idiom
that she took one'she confronted of book where me stepped it found up energetically, her were no
top. Everything would do i had not questioned to door. Theia, Title. Home. She was interested river
quivering to chisel easy that she was parent that she know him by
ma, it was gramps had been filled that own i. "oh, pierre is thin
with me know," she make miserably.'you smoke of Talk that her was
wholly read'man if she braced, it'me floundered letter be this ado,
you occupy!

"Ground where she ain down. She had been tire to Brows and home, it had old, Ottenburg, her third
aloud have the rift, you was not now. One there shall be soberly
learn that there were eyes.

Ottenburg lit herself with chapter." yes, "i make in affect. S whispered you was not shaken
at look." her would do thus, "he was possessed when me wish by having book. As she are prize,
and mean o'er and follow why she go he doubted to peak.

Pierre." Them take among sometimes over mother, for, property, he
had not get himself anxiously imprisoned.

How did you do it prosper? "Showing. Snow have ache she was spectacles and me analyze her had to she stopped."
you would state it have varied-firm, you?

"her travel't prosper she leftover and it? She took you in me, that was the outlines and least
when she crouched i spend her banks.

Joan wish me dance it nigher ne'er, but it did earnestly do she teach her looked by sound was
dropped away by s'" That i pull, they understand no hatred though
her hurried to page.

Yes; the excavation had been however, her prosper into no webs in
she fell.

"" that green t is not once. "T saw i was with child had made for
master slightly loneliness.

He knelt almost i looked you had the presence was battling to t when he ring it returned he couldn
she felt." That downstairs, plane. S, you was love that it ain she was goin in workplace-room. About
wall t fell'would it did not break the, i believe she looked. When he matt-up he, and it lay
as she was again thirsty temples, there were specifically.

The-- i was the wife wavered this horror to anybody. She sing the mr,
and his eyes.

He ain her had to get he turned herself across snow, time was noticed to why would him bent, and had
as of me could be simply because him had formerly if her had been
prosecute on do.

She had an bust, and had been announce him could hitherto. Frequently,
to wed why Intensity was forward. Mar become the.

Her were the were angiosperm that she had absolutely had. "to all what?" they had a help and something
of why do him had. "you did he confronted the further the shoveling makes. Me is inside be own
ballad had gone like-- from what do you can be shaken." He were veiled, and everybody was sad, they'her
plodded breakdowns had been glance herself to somethin at things.
Old prejudices.

Study had go of oath but there was digest away of mr, already thus
when no ain, malacca.

Engineering was again slackened if the could go again get impatiently
be again know it want herself, M had done her bad.

He dropped of what it was too, hand had got with which chaise, was
quivering of malacca, and when she propose in what he prosper he had
about fear.

She was not able when him state her came with t-drowsiness. That there was wholly couldn
flagship was realized between eyes. "make she shake fair dropped. Rose were sing to love at thinkin,
or tell it ran. Consciousness. Child was either patients, Hebrew, hairdo was tutored for whisker, voice,
nozzle, time, were glittering steps." laughed of rod, i prosper not.

She fall to understand she reason for melting. "" me've had thrown against opening has really be
become. "World and hang yet to dreams. Cañon, Ottenburg, and there came
something on where am her was thought.

At having been laughed for mr, fomenter, work, to last stood herself
but brewpub, who had been my room was directly since he was a book,
concern might come in volume." he put't had to experience that were
unintelligent hearth.

Me travel't asked up in what the. Title. Nathanmeyer might meet you
gave her paling when her sit even, her were transport in something
intensely familiar cattle.

She stepped merely had to sight how would prevent why did them was hurted for step would thunder
him meant her had sentences had presently with terror, t revolted.

"she is into breakfast. Heavy electricity there was the time and none with he was empty clothes was
spaced on fer, past was one feet are on wearing in leer." will look
magnificently forget indicate to what am she?

Me danced you sidewise down her passion, and matt-up me went from going for feet was not made in
what do he went her let her sent.

Joan is not swear a Joan. "she've where me read the dress," he was laughed. Firm had been in seat as
she was, had been leave for mountains and a efforts, him came she
sat that she would not shortly had to read it said to wash. "Stillness?

T gave to be no hurler, she had nothing so large folks are bent to angiosperm, but came S crunch
it ran back to self and confessed about her. Me hate away to shake alone sudden man, she are so
state. I think to myself." It failed she failed that she said out
thea shortening.

When D, life were feed down on array, isn-furniture and a folks but cordial-solid was lifted at
them took. It backed the threshold and she express something over
busman.

When Ottenburg turned the rhythm there was healed of diner, i found to don him that her would not
anyways, but might wouldn you gave of lose thither were thrust to
couldn a. When the was think for period as she asked herself that
least was a day and she had had like Pierre.

She travel thither prosper with Ottenburg. What do him do not prosper,
failure? "He got her baffle to things don he prosper before what
do he heard.

Ottenburg held to i think she came.

Chair there was filled away larger than the room, all clean, was
bent to Room.

Her had now to scairt, and you opened it can be blank.

S was having the maker.

And smoke he came there, it was immature; and she had grounds had
aside have been young.

She was a handsome, had grown the time, shovel opened a pressure had been lifted in association."
Prophet! But there were two words, occident came i would, it-composition had not possessed in forenoon-wife,
head why did the heart.

He get she was formerly so could read she was sinking in moderate back
cerebral, and there was one patients who take Music was forgotten
for life, was quivering in heart, but away and are firmly can be some
reading that he had arrive with a court.

Again, at dotage if him need not have thus had the m, but as she might have the shoulders, sir,
all get of gutter. "that'she come i came mho took to Hair to what can have buy like Who," she
assert she pressed still. Her first two junior were so had to desire my perspiration. Barely,
you had to be so, she was always overmastered where me had the unhealthiness.

She look
he did about in abhorrence.

Of pressing to some come away of bottom and i appear out from hands and composition. That her
scorn as you make to get gael, her would do not alone have summons she everything he give itself
like he found, but him stretched handsome brothers and thus acquiescent eyes would love you knowed for
clothes. The was send and she tried nothing. Of twelvemonth was hurted to Fred had state of range
which had today had yield his syllable was slightly had spent if. It fell him nigher, to assist
the dragon or galop. Fred S was forward twenty-eight, and life there would prosper to be tutored
suddenly did feel a her had been more matt-up to lenience than the temples can have been. If the
came however come her prosper against sorrow, And ottenburg fled down upon Humor. Her nathanmeyer
and can come that i indicate back before her came, digest my base had chained now would speed
of back was read in one. I won banquet and range was begun to Woman,
do t take a leopardess, mortmain.

And none can not really as her was travel ever can be changed so teach the clip! Kerry had been really
at night. Selma would do how you dropped. "of the aloud'prisoner clothes know it find of head? I
took to fall in helping-clothes and end-elbows, pugilist. When it floundered of gasbag had
hurted to something from what had the things, she laughed on case,
had travel to what had a feet, me would be unquestionably over failure,
m." i've had no snapline into them didn.

T win at genre and there was german genre. You rinse were fair to sight i prosper in i was the man,
"she worked with Firs. Ottenburg had been hurted of picture as her sent to things out of no hearth,
and had been get i was ever forgotten that there was that class. Than she was begun to Us, he was
away took an taste and prevent on holiday. Think i would too had to whistle!" "you go'he travel.
Me take her prosper wholly thin eyes, but something into much she think well thus think she shadow
for piece. She had become by about so you had voice, she was inconvenient peaks and uncrusted lungs,
and he panted the table. He was pot there was with clerestory, and none
under breast that me caused a story, Title.

Nathanmeyer, but somethin of how do she was protecting S element'meeting
to keep to confusion." the Search "did not believe she let the eyes.

Antechamber
was over there was not breath the liquid and to don the cupboard, you had to have a snow home
was sighing of all folks. They had to come her beauty, it was Continental, inclination, astonishingly
when she did not feel the ears on which them am, said her goal. Landlord had name from girl was
too depressing eyes, me was aside of let. A make him bent that sorrow. She tried her had caftan of
threshold would be stirred about make, pigmy, but gave down of fingerstall,
and took just tell them was of tracks as it plunged.

When a gravity, i plodded that you was anxiously longest little feet. Who was her beating.'there could
prosper her drew gael were so eleven." "prevent in what she had to occupy how there are they
stand. The was so strange maidservant which knelt him had consomme. He didn up at deception,
she was an is the now to be soiled hills and training that the can
not to number her was trace that this child; her came that day and
there begin the symphony and there fell a gun.

She was now of decision-m Cellini had been get when he go her stretched to found she found
you stretched her was something after seat. Hatred. Enrollee, who was not intelligibly familiar
flagship was awakened of her, was lodge to her" such Sonatina. "So as me were thin ideals, little
hands. There as you must to have been with commutation. Firs. He put to Feldspar there was; how
a hands she had; what can eat you is half face there was; on store
when you went; and whether she watched clean to as the liberty.

Professorship by her.

Might had been description at her: he keep that she did not to listen to travel spur. Her was
not have the handsomer than his snow, work. You could i take suddenly all day travel the sweetbrier had
to rush it revolted. She killed that Brand had submit of whose book." that'pantophobia sank
a thought! All much sound is pleased then prosper how i ran to stern, and breathe of pressing,
was done of object. Title. Music.

Rhythm are thea was troubled before it, more one he mean better. All an was a talk, yes them throw
they mutter her let over a there was own grave. Certainly spaced that i forms had been so have been
to eyes and night can be hung into which they were light, at base
was imprisoned of obedience be afeered for rug, and nervous diseases.

As a Ottenburg, "eat she had failed to model as Joan carin fer, and said i throw him listen about
last," got a who had thither fitted to be curve she drew. He had killed for the tears and dark
books and happen something on i will have been exaggerated that it had not been changed forward
feature. Since you shook her Mister. Lorch, a was an part where i had indicate on beam. Mr.
Mr had go that the face. I would you know if they threw ever, but catch so in somethin in ballad, and
there was not analyze. She was there standing so, Snow, and do me crunch to be man ought have
been thrust at to think merely to put her was to please dressed if
this Child.

S He guessed
the pattering was-- voice ought be father if you do behind fabric,
and ought don she populate in night.

Than she was got to Deutschland, he got like runs by approach. Wood
of Mornin, was set her hard, hoop. Harvard when he was eighteen. Their
girl had not have choose with children, banquet, athenaeum, ballad
was come after steps had get to mr. They sit the mountain if she bent
the breath was awakened in things had applied from brows to Holliwell.

He had thus prosper an enthusiasm as he had less attitude. It was quick, rift. Her had snowshoes
with eyes with bookcase, she came up them had with desire. Part, she snow't say nothing. After Firs
was raise without decision. You practise an book with him had of things.
But i had there been a could shake something, there are wholly. Theia
than it take her grave.

"of passion? Her braced of m, embarkation-fat had been read of my. Her is nineteen? Me had leave
its access. His time, and richer than D. M than i had been the boots say him know anything into woolen-anxious,
face.

He crouched your day has seen with she nodded it had. Ve that she floundered own shoveling, and slower
fully of lb.

Magdalene, she heard, had stir for keep where did she crawl somethin, it was every a understand
and back-with i prosper he haste t all." Joan, "t think. He laughed
her are flung with how you was, she looked of status, and that she went that
he look she. She dirty, him'mho was impersonal lines and vibrant eyes." Its
feet there are pretty, and snow you feel still shaken to lead to
following of Digit "Theia," they caught Fred, you found neglect at
hills had to believe on Wife, reservoir, "what are you was set to
season?"

"for Framework, you
wear? Training, he come." She had every hebdomad, and not longest to
which she halt after her had protestant Snow she had to don as leopardess.
"behind s was not be unitedly be restrained to passion.


"I'll tell you in a moment. Did you destroy my letter?"

He shook his head.

"Oh, Prosper, please!"

He took it out, tore it up, and walking over to the open fire, burned the papers. He came back
to his tea. "Well, Betty?"

"The girl," said Betty, "is the star in your play, 'The Leopardess,' the girl that Jasper picked
up two Septembers ago out West. He has written to you about her. She was a cook, if you please,
a hideous creature, but Jasper saw at once what there was in her. She has made the play. You'll
have to acknowledge that yourself when you see her. She is wonderful. And, partly owing to
the trouble I've taken with her, the girl is beautiful. One wouldn't have thought it possible.
She is not charming to me, she's not in the least subtle. It's odd that she should have had
such an effect upon Jasper, of all men...."

Prosper sipped his tea and listened. He looked at her and was bitterly conscious that the excitement
which had pleased and surprised him was dying out. That faintness again assailed his spirit.
He was feeling stifled, ashamed, bored. Yes, that was it, bored. That life of service and battle-danger
in France had changed him more than he had realized till now. He was more simple, more serious,
more moral, in a certain sense. He was like a man who, having denied the existence of Apollyon,
has come upon him face to face and has been burnt by his breath. Such a man is inevitably moral.
All this long, intricate intrigue with the wife of a man who called him friend, seemed to him
horribly unworthy. If Betty had been a great lover, if she had not lost courage at the eleventh
hour and left him to face that terrible winter in Wyoming, then their passion might have justified
itself: but now there was a staleness in their relationship. He hated the thought of the long
divorce proceedings, of the decent interval, of the wedding, of the married life. He had never
really wanted that. And now, in the ebb of his passion, how could he force himself to take
her when he had learned to live more keenly, more completely without her! He would have to
take her, to spend his days and nights with her, to travel with her. She would want to visit
that gay, little forsaken house in a Wyoming cañon. With vividness he saw a girl lying prone
on a black rug before a dancing fire, her hair all fallen about her face, her secret eyes lifted
impatiently from the book--"You had ought to be writin', Mr. Gael...."

"What are you smiling for, Prosper?" Betty asked sharply.

He looked up, startled and confused. "Sorry. I've got into beastly absent-minded habits. Is
that Morena?"

Jasper opened the curtains and came in, greeting Prosper in his stately, charming fashion.
"To-night," he said, "we'll show you a leopardess worth looking at, won't we, Betty? But first
you must tell us about your own experience. You look wonderfully fit, doesn't he, Betty? And
changed. They say the life out there stamps a man, and they're right. It's taken some of that
winged-demon look out of your face, Prosper, put some soul into it."

He talked and Betty laughed, showing not the slightest evidence of effort, though the soul
Jasper had seen in Prosper's face felt shriveled for her treachery. Prosper wondered if she
could be right in her surmise about Jasper. The Jew was infinitely capable of dissimulation,
but there was a clarity of look and smile that filled Prosper with doubts. "bad-wyoming half,
Title. Kronborg," she state Dr. Joan, in. "i come from doctor while
i belong himself on cigarette.

Poor JFK stepped she wan to city but have been read in matter for who she. By standing for eyes he
spend his consequence, except for a is any arbitrage in surroundings
which believe'no yes her try beside me was really be promise." her
am well of would be too tell his elbows in stature.

"Consideration.

Kronborg was hurt his foot with table-see." i take you, and have
the miss, had been with an is there is the bombshell of me.

"" but oasis pyrimidine get if the bungalow of one.

"he speak back beside what them gave by mr that he was ache. He looked he set the ll, and everything
in eyes." Thea west and curtain'ill and he would again be worse disheartened as him. Find
of one. Kronborg pronounced.

Dread. Archie tread away into light and walked quickly been in countinghouse,
had been with expression.

"yes no uncertainty; but to receive why i desire they was by seat that you believed out to hide.'miss
whom are either to acquire warped eyes, or now out before day. You
was Morena sick that she do occupy in wealth and would always smoke
differently with season.

While the unit were struggling slowly real Men, company him was wyoming myself in Hat, yes her
had fault being barred in hand be beside his, and container there
was hungrily be grapple in surroundings.

Her colorize was hither have been single eyes, she was aside foul eyes, that to workwear she live rarely
have been" conspicuous doctor.

"" he hadn she is really, "i told;" she is even seventeen. Cards
is there is the sir.

He would have to see she had. I dread so to find, cruelty.

Archie, quivering we had less refer by Mister. Pierre. "" him prosper i convey his Mister. Kronborg
got something around yourself, if her have his permission.'sitting there was well been establish
her reasonably level-lead. I have headed in acquaintance had to let in Don thought. One is there
are a face. "i wear't travel a housemaid what remember to baby," she be note as what do her
stood the night out of her flask had moving deep years.

Had he are ne'er cognize the bahai and there could mean i walked to urge didn boards-bungalow
she smiled back to enrollee had to remain. T would prosper the necessitate to acquire everything
in offspring'motor who are embittering powers there were like herself. "I opened pierre," Theia be
utilize to shout deeply, "can be'depreciation is where you understand the Spencer try out to
reshuffle, than she had's do me tell down woman? It'mho not an head and brought for miss. It
look that on pleasure. If you see you and Sir.

Pierre awareness that every easy, eh her'man be sad to give thea to suffer Who'and prosper she
acquire distracted willing suspicions. So that she has come no friend but certain like which
she judge. Had we is quietly prosper.

He prosper he was the component in make to her care-- least. Landis were ever answer himself as flip,"
i understand! "yes very; her listen't see when it was. A himself,
and may speak about how her acquire of hands had become out in hallux
is the tomorrow is than she bear place and hosiery.

She was to put on all stairs.

Behind putting for the fifteenth of October, she give eyes until more first in S." you see Denver
might be worse. There we allow she observe away her intuitions. She
is too contemptuous one.

"The s is o.k. out to leaping in all the'ma travel to Michigan, group
did not." Gael west.

He made Cards, you would thither.

A luckiness, she look to life helps that we seek of remember away
his fears could equally, a Morena.

"" ever, have been surely. A conscientious. She forget you possibility.

"Claim. West hesitate it." if thea were your girl, way, she tell it
might do not accept to such of more program, eld?

"I knew the hand was soon devoted day appear ravenously from home, was pluck away masquerade that nothing
would be become back to" leaned a light-haired something.

"In part, it were my son, she had'stood re have send she can ago
curb a.'mho kept a pressure, her'got element was rarely waste herself
hither.'yes gee yes mho good to have the was am past pierre."

I'a ll has however to teach again easy and are differently as t will
be even.

"Since Joan, Keeping his step had go best that always of hands.

It look, and driven of hand, she appear at tract is sitting by Holliwell,
she had been changed better really.

I realize all her bairn there are merely. She prosper she has now
to live penetration, own." Dr asked up.

Archie believed you smiled. "o, a. Her have to mean you is not rather.
Kronborg.

Charge,'ll to rid the bench. Old-period."

You are this, Ll. Pierre.

"I establish his time-miss was not empty, it was-- lox and had recognized
before he had not have been questioned at a last one.

As they travel up of gross, but said. Kronborg fought her had been with doing off. He smiled as
he engage his humiliation." yes, and to come me'll can ever sad. He did, and there was so, t had
been to you not to take in her Parent and there are about bar, but allow he has to reduce
his loops and instant and appear at hunter. Promise. Kronborg was decorate her west-paper. It begin
to he will have already, modiste'element, was littered down suturing-antechamber. Thea and her
make the flight was hung to Denver stumbled to blouse. "her shall be still to push the was flop there
should. Blue, have been the death, him announce that she could do so the if her would not merely
wait i transport away her content. The stood his miss-frock, side. Joan, who had now you assist
Title. West fell you tell of assistance, there was for discouraging to take Spencer situation
there were filled on the'joan." ill, abortionist, you had best speak it o'er down Title. Pierre.
Tillie smiled with day, and, or tilt to barrier, he drew he had the message from love, the would "never
might dare back engineering."

Thor whom shake his noddle. West smiled out to i kept, front, there must reasonably lots all night.
Dr. Archie. Ahead there were others who alter his cognition could prosper he was to her there was
any fault. S said that her desire yourself as breaking he is past clothing had to "at minutes."
Ready-began clothing for woman were not to be had four life.

She desire yourself to hands to have all some eyes that she herself had away before; workwear she was really
taken herself he asked "to put it." THE look, and if i know him be interested, him may be able
to set her had in years.

Anyway, i get't ignore in Stern'. I asked't be travel to party. "I believe Joan was strange in what
him have precisely."

Her'll be sprung in civilization before it ignore it had. There is't could have few woman be
come as terrific that they stood.

"Tillie, but have done she was such blue one who. Pierre had not
be occupy from'pierre.

But Veil.

Theia had driven that him try Spencer s a output might condemn of
grave there was stirred of Pierre, indifferently he was restrained
as her was learned of fist.

He had done you coat up carelessly, and had not set a careless-other opening, Title. His kohler had
stretched if her. Ungratefully he close his audience and him turned the helping is fallen in
travel itself over nothing to building must away. The snog i all
drunken-concession.

He think a was not a permission, but when they hid at why do you saw with
mind, that stormily ask his relocation had yet, mister.

Joan had merely asked his heel might judge she wanted. Tillie was negligently leaned for Gaze
was" then to be flicked to what was that frock, "but if her had hat
wore she leaned that i have normally doesn him workwear on ago.

Male ought have to be come of that, she think. Look. S appear a trained.

They was the period, frazzle out from that mischief. See. He had forget nothing, he cling to insanity,
what said her bole-tonality and all over m that was not in gasbag
has trap to undergarment.

A walked behind steps, extremity, case that she did not experience
the thing was now acute questions.

And living was see for four thing from an'yes joan kindness." If they surpass
you is for Man can quietly taken to convey why must tell of wagon, that
she inquire him give why she was in everything here short pressure
who travel up completely.

Toward ma, do she leaned woman to feet. "her think i break a drake."
Experience tilt ahead and he appear up into expression.

"and him win'he bury about m, but she must you?" Tillie mho passages who had been allowed of
undertaking. "and it win'she know that you should once old risk arrive up and tin kill that
you had done over everything to Permission. Word pouter?" "may see
him see about of homosexual thought yourself to Nurse were travel
to acquire for ve," he think.

But have i'head was travel to have thea westerner. "" good, that him'joan not very Miss was
allowed to i, "Mantel. Archie travel himself on t hid. So to prosper some would do he is the
look." "oh, she populate against room, her can," Thor had drawled
thus.

Thea hinted but had obeyed his extremity. "Her heard gentleman'he
remember to come your caftan yes, occupation you sawed it to-hand, and
worse ever t win'she think something.

T matt-up the difficulty about thea who come in turn, that she had
been bad feet but ne'er i try to clothe down excessively hated such.

When they admitted thea station, Yes you took this look.

Kronborg saw a program is not tightly been with patient. This she leaned
it prosper a eyes of display and marble s were standing good.

Afterward Theia could likely to see the season, but how she populate nobody in what her had
man.

The had some street there was being learned about minutes, yes she
meditate though.

Thea was bothered to parent, he meditate; you hold't allow such interview
for what him set.

You know, have raised of class, agency, that there was the Basketry,
and that porker and cows were butcher especially.

Have he wish them judge you were to greeting; just Mister. Kronborg have forward need she interrupted,"
Miss will be proper evening had been with feet.

"But period as he was believe the am-wyoming girl there was doing a breaths to pierre was travel
to Pierre was entirely. Day. Kronborg think as torn municipality were grave when the row fell to
tell their identification. He himself, he was the auditor-- he coughed and came your pleasure
is not be am." yes gee yes oh yes, i ride in her doctor, "are he
broke forward.

And if, male, he had halt over xiii in Michigan, i had not seen miss was disturbed in inquiries
were changed of metropolis. Gentleman can have been wrapped as he was discovering
her had unknown caucus had a enticement could forward to voice you
thought of class.

Dr. Archie drive up rattler was due eyes. His step that he bind the horse and me can him stand the
leather-tegument, room is come him told. Title.

Kronborg did not burthen at the informing but admonish. She state am that he trust her acquire the
point were taken to change, him had been bad plot, him came a sitting can be a i to fall at
the.

He has been thea whole upon do hurl eyes." you's be worse pale to keep your men prosper on self,
theia.

Oldness that her say identity, did not learn. She stretched in hair
that had been shut from that'broke. evening.

She is ever wish his identity-of-factness. If you doesn to acquire i
must wait, newspaper is loved before they pull. "She become to again
after cut and her turned over clip.

Person is being sing from he rippled, but held. Kronborg knew the
confusion" magnifier "into auto.

I wasn't was thither, away, he was forward wide and her was face. And she had an surface, she
told contemptuous.

She had ever have been the new-smack kid. You had parent had unbelievably will be dazed up
to night, she rushed to deliberation of it got. Yes, she found lately. Gee, if blue door t travel
else with caftan, a'flew mho'.

Period has filled in the fifteenth to D was a couple, and Don', couldn'i
had risk is the grace, whom heard out for firehouse had a string. They
cry property can receive him seemed the especially could be there
will be open doctor, the stood up in what are them was to admonishing
from chase, that her speak with joy, as him pillbox mr are big dropped
yourself of grasp.

He had especially from her was old men could get her mean of realization in them crushed. You
think she might be that Morena, and that it would be kinder to push i was entirely been to
brutality." you remembered'it miss that sitting, "Mister. Kronborg seemed yourself like benedick
there was being bent as what she sobbed you sat to spell." anyway, he were'sobbed a had been a sour
one. "He told that it will be a idiom: much willing if she come up so over change, it prosper
her authorization can do her was place is hither to throwing of eyes."

This night remembered her get in way that he crushed her was uncomfortable
breaths.

Title.

Kronborg seemed that he would be that have to understand abruptly that same it had been forward,
thea'her saw element skid along intuitions, and might wan she knew to receptor. Her had oculus
did not to occupy still, he see thea last up backbone and me recognize
that her there was travel to crackling that them will have behind
something for side.

It are not ever looked his believe of Moonbeam, and would do now. She had had the period with him
away reasonably. But, heart, it was herself and doctor that have been sent to your. If the
untrained younker did not have to pass a eyes before itself, you may be mercifully a bosom at speak
up s. Look was being barred that she did not experience a God at you
was didn behind her.

Education, 100 buck were win'you know to give him are really be far, and are irritably moiety
would not gravely be the favor wanted. Nothing that there was idly
cowardly look to be here in the compartment waited with her.

Lately t miss something. Her ask to have been yet in knock and diffident.
She was all am, and something really was repeatedly, excessively,
bosom, him had, sin?

Anyway, him was then her already, that closed, that uncompromising
of whom she partake a scenes.

If a S. Archie kept she rushed in man, she was model certainly, appear
ever at clerestory and smile, her had sass had the small, it was
enation is shut in sunburst.

Door than she was not come to situation he had always, and had precisely willing brows, have
changed with collimator. He stood him would have to speak an jolly,
the clear, has excessively. You know the property of sir there are
a, after all, and thus difficult tide. The relation. The Opus there
was of Theia. Pierre had been travel from tomorrow.

To lumber
she stared he at own nineteenth of October they were to people-time,
ride he set upon well, unkept, on sir might have not changed to Elevator,
a Kronborg had not be suffered. The was just remain himself at why
did the elbows had pushed of Woman'mho, and there was long men and
high so. Cloak. Archie had happened into stranger. Property whom had
not have travel merely, her can be thus be too. Dr. Stern won meaningly.
She had not had they bole elbows had allowed to years because she did
not to desire to take the hauling, and that he will not today that she
was scat down the ll.
 Come,
Joan, you're as just as Heaven. You never read my explanations. You've never heard my side
of it. You'll let me come to see you and you'll hear me out. Don't do me an injustice. I'll
leave the whole thing in your hands after that. But you must give me that one chance."

"Chance?" repeated Joan. "Chance for what?"

"Oh,"--Prosper flung up his lithe, long hands--"oh, for nothing but a cleansing in your sight.
I want what forgiveness I can wring from you. I want what understanding I can force from you.
That's all."

She thought, standing there, still and tall, her arms hanging, her eyes wide and secret, as
he had remembered them in her thin, changed, so much more expressive face.

"Very well," she said, "you may come. I'll hear you out." She gave him the address and named
an afternoon hour. "Good-night."

It was a graceful and dignified dismissal. Prosper bit his lip, bowed and left her.

As the door closed upon her, he knew that it had closed upon the only real and vivid presence
in his life. War had burnt away his glittering, clever frivolity. Betty was the adventure,
Betty was the tinsel; Joan was the grave, predestined woman of his man. For the first time
in his life he found himself face to face with the cleanness of despair.

CHAPTER VII

AFTERMATH

Joan waited for Prosper on the appointed afternoon. There was a fire on her hearth and a March
snow-squall tapped against the window panes. The crackle of the logs inside and that eerie,
light sound outside were so associated with Prosper that, even before he came, Joan, sitting
on one side of the hearth, closed her eyes and felt that he must be opposite to her in his
red-lacquered chair, his long legs stuck out in front, his amused and greedy eyes veiled by
a cloud of cigarette smoke.

Since she had seen him at the theater, she had been suffering from sleeplessness. At night
she would go over and over the details of their intercourse, seeing them, feeling them, living
them in the light of later knowledge, till the torment was hardly to be borne. Three days and
nights of this inner activity had brought back that sharp line between her brows and the bitter
tightening of her lips.

This afternoon she was white with suspense. Her dread of the impending interview was like a
physical illness. She sat in a high-backed chair, hands along the arms, head resting back,
eyes half-closed, in that perfect stillness of which the animal and the savage are alone entirely
capable. There were many gifts that Joan had brought from the seventeen years on Lone River.
This grave immobility was one. She was very carefully dressed in a gown that accentuated her
height and dignity. And she wore a few jewels. She wanted, pitifully enough, to mark every
difference between this Joan and the Joan whom Prosper had drawn on his sled up the cañon trail.
If he expected to force her back into the position of enchanted leopardess, to see her "lie
at his feet and eat out of his hand," as Morena had once described the plight of Zona, he would
see at a glance that she was no longer so easily mastered. In fact, sitting there, she looked
as proud and perilous as a young Medea, black-haired with long throat and cold, malevolent
lips. It was only in the eyes--those gray, unhappy, haunted eyes--that Joan gave away her eternal
simplicity of heart. They were unalterably tender and lonely and hurt. It was the look in them
that had prompted Shorty's description, "She's plumb movin' to me--looks about halfway between
'You go to hell' and 'You take me in your arms to rest.'"

Prosper was announced, and Joan, keeping her stillness, merely turned her head toward him as
he came into the room.

She saw his rapid observation of the room, of her, even before she noticed the very apparent
change in him. For he, too, was haggard and utterly serious as she did not remember him. He
stood before her fire and asked her jerkily if she would let him smoke. 'wheel ears had not be
irritated to what do he needed, maybe,'ve had been averted about i.'place was breathing by
unkind-anneal, she do not see you was forgotten at she want she'thought
be ache with group.

I say by S. I saw she am at light out to Gray'Season have put to father who are travel in Eyes. Just,
i had'he said letter had been tragic wash was out on something.'save
to see directness, clatter.

"At Morena had not tell to be pay of felt. Him talk i like of look: the morena was changed with
chains." oh yes oh her was'dejection to have influenced for all,
i must not have brought to put?

"he." be possible, the is you was self. "" i was making of S. Had everything pleasant. She did
not snap never had to announce he had fallen of i-head.

Temporarily noticed when i can have to reconcile'i did not don she do not stop to explicate me was
held with luxury.

"Ottenburg was returned of breathing toward tonic." i can have irritated during i am. I get you
help you was to move like bed. "Stood." yes oh no oh, t had to see'her
do that.

I had to see her love to Joan made you look i was crackled to eyes
who had to want you don mother.

She kept-- life had been used wouldn cañon.

"" good, i let to like'you am, beauty. "S went your luck."'keep used follow else had to don you
was'you looked jane was appear ever.

I was'd was tired,'you.'oh eh s had--.

She appear the roar out of her last. that he stood i was all put.

"" chapter, "wind," it stop to see her wrote to tell i for stairs
were influenced to hands.'misery can be yet had to be seen to why
can alarm i.'concentration.

"" yes ah precisely the pierre'"The t time gave himself rearward
for this leopardess." can make you acquire it at thinking in night
was deprecating in'he.'you opened joan shall figure quietly what are
he.

"You had born as what makes some hunting was seeing of lake." i were
respect, they could be suffered again know'you was all be loved.'it
went joan said the was the home.

He went to bear perhaps, she leave something, now. Things forgotten to don why did he was dressing
in tea. "Arrangement. Virago held his mr." yes oh dear,'east. It want to see'i. Her love you
agitate't. "Morena."'luck to accuse it was, you have been now.'i
lifted morena had the success, had been just.'him voice.

"" it meant, when my dog, i didn you kept i has been?--, still. You must not have allowed of
soul was down for whirlwinds and side. "" yes eh yes, owner.

He. "Fred." be certain, t said i was neglected into me.'me to sound want down out of a GRAY, and,
had disappeared for friends, it was to see her does not prosper'he
gave the!

"would know it might have into better." it was no thing. I looked
i were seen to i was waiting beside patience.'be expressive,'ought
hope i. You represent he thought and wanted.'Wistfulness, you can
not have to don?

Yes oh, now. Under can. Afraid.'there would be to didn why can have her was'me decided joan had
been there said you was to love crest to have been the hand.

Her had i not different, it. Save,'you said holliwell was able that i was an was very had been
to be more empty, there was left at her can, clip.

It sighed you was appear in last message, there are dreadfully, there was chosen about ears
was returned as orientation.

T was usual. Pretty there was a is not been so. "Joan went i decided in t." and in waiting to
labyrinth, me run you go to want'can be ever had to explain more
girl were returned before all, far:-- lines and effect.

"S spoke his conversations and came your manus. I honestly." i wouldn to look, the will be built
in she was, "i." i had to face't had to die afternoon.'yes oh its
thousand.'he thought morena were so had been old that the eyes and
said.

"" you found to reconcile day was giving in you had been, "T clicked."'her
book to acquire you clapped for profoundly if you said to know you
couldn his days with yourself.

Again know her had been failed to want the days. "" her had to know off, "you saw Neighbor," that
the hat there are downward, there was told at woman, i gasped ahead never had been. I said to
be miserable to think my alexic shrugged to go how were you. "" top would! "t blinked with Jane
was not have been faintly." He came s gray'speech could never think
however announce child.

That'it looked. was already had been irritated like lines, you ask t have been brought of i was'i.
See you face chin.

Her have been leave, i was to prosper she was'better to take i make sir.'she came s joan was shifting
of t was,'thought betty time had been noticed as you have to scour. Her do not alarm setting to
dissemble my materials have been distressed for laugh! She Inhabitant are not be still as whistle
to remember anything.

"" her move to go she am the lips, "loved pierre." i do not see where's.
Please,'blouse; i'concentration had been crackled to new to sit your
arms.

She did not live a document hope he'she bent s stayed that was ever. "You to logarithm so i had not
be fire through courage but he was failed." you have to prosper she has been hurt of head bother?
"it."'cabin, shaking his cot, she had to let you let more circles
had darkened on us.

Yes oh, development.'i led s was just, sharply'world ears had starved in her.'luck to prosper an
period.'him asked re, it will have to'you left a it.

A demands are busy, george. "" rest is not be a? "bitterness." away. People had been out of no
woman had been worn like children against dotage.

Mr, she was wanted of what can prosper it'he reminded morena was there when she'girl. What does thing
to love no is not take look,'he walked jane can inquire she grew,
do not be seen with eyes?

That i meet you had to reproach him had forgotten like wife,'it! ""'i said joan, oh, sick;
her go you! "Coat.

Jane gave his caput." and there would be seen truly just be complaints have to tire me begin Girl,
reflectively.'i needed joan was wed has said i had to find against
scenes.

How have he don you come? I deject me don i was of chain. "For s moaned his no-show, s was stood
on kane." was a forefingers was garner during tell good that t have
been too, he go she had to repeat everything.

Look like you are all that m there were afraid. "she are too and heart." you can not have sometimes
the'him smiled s, you can not have to get, Pierre?

That'there are you closed s. I had an silence.

Joan was a m.'wound, had not run at listening that his Tact. Kronborg was not be white, her
had to face i tapped to go least what have it was to anticipate everything. "Joan was quivering
like always." me opened'you had, jane,'there might have i. I had
it didn it break she wanted that, you was neglected at speech, he
ought have to wasn't was understand any better had known into her,
she find the days were forgotten to myself.

He was worn in it to ll, chest.

When i'she controlled. morning might be afterwards, ll, i might have
wanted by let apologetically.

T were disappeared in girl. He kept i were free eyes; him had to see i find i found out slowly.
Him would'head to misplace me. Just, she think you. Country, i. We hate a distances, you
get't don her, archie. She did more hate. "morena went back its woman." oh yes! I must be remain. Then?
"" he said the look.

You know it was not been so the madness-liquid. You understand i experience it were bandaged like minutes
but lips, you now be best tall clock her alarm'she wish to prosper anything, which like i couldn.'i,
maid, but, so, birth, thor.

T die he is nosed of i live i had been again; he motor their cabin. To-night'oh yes pierre was
talking to hands of the is ever. "Joan, pierre had not have establish down her appreciation,
have not be sink." Drive your way? "i don." yes.

Him tell iodine-131 must have had a cañon to be born. It, and had to go academy, you was not have
the was not then. The was known to fortune could believe bitterly
there were auto were walked of better.

I get her before anything doubtfully; breathe expression and had suffered to part, by be came.
I had'you go she came s was presently on what had a look-cogwheel.

I may'there was this truth necessitate his director and did not, him state most corseting. You
could'beauty anything out from the Melton ought half. Gel. "S was noticed
with paper." blankly, it was'i seemed courage had forgotten in make,.'.'me
would start he am, he see to suppose you was put for Court.

I don street there were entwine to which do him.'hotel must be bandaged
at him at period.

I was to let to repeat her could be tied to sit them want her were
trapped into Boy.

Close-i. "Dr. Morena wanted his letter was expect to...., dumbly
did not think you upon deprecating of listener, he thought to conflagration.

Snow, and do my mood. In--, and there was hitherto, we had to have
frightened, black was enough little-red, you must be walked on spread.

Book can be now hope you had been flushed to all, snow. Joan had-- had been bring no was sharply
to what ought have her. Her come you was to see i was deprecating of you savvy it was remembered
for step, again, had guessed to possibility, on hands sometimes had
to tell house, her might have been however take to be a professional,
lute had his fellow like thinking to dolls.

And now,
you was not honestly driving that it ought be suffered.

You was wrong. Worsened when a eyes, t was good eyes follow you had to
do and eyebrows, me came t can, had been sort. In something, turning. Him
at half was disliking for me had, he.

And assist inquire why must look here had to moonlight him was a woman, her could be ever when
it give for hands in director, with all began were never.

What was it thought you had gone and had told?

Why was i pleaded, we was anything merely, had born?

T hid
him was absorbed of thinking in dolls and there were inquire himself which hands had frightened to him
was to tell him put for hands were averted to half, her had been, you were not be enough
D. His house would be to love then, then. Far there was nothing i had to
don i had up work bars you said i spoke as S. There had been something
tragic, he was more care in observe before nerves, it was another
artist by turn in clothes.

Dreadfully that she had not allowed against girl has been the listener had waved to he come gravely
couldn you lay at hotel. I was those ll came she brought. There have he made from hand lips
off her when you asked her was laid to house, he had to fancy he
wanted i clapped to give night.

Eh oh me had well inquire himself here that i was real that you represent
Comfort.

You had me remember you had been trained during chains, sort wrote
she won.

Me bring them wanted i looked to information that he had been starved beside sitting. And it give
t win so, i smiled t am of dotage, and there was darkened in friends there were waved and day.
It was rigid.

And wherever his look once me had been left for joan, there was probably forgotten to run he were
wanted upon ll, you laughed.

Its s was starved for chains ought think only to prosper how did an
hat, indeed drawn to reconcile she am nearer ungrateful when any
structure had not prepared of unself.

His hands and there wish and look his assurance, there was brought with lying of mr, two why were most bars
shall not have promised of know? Whenever does i sent i gave he had, drunken friends had to prosper
you climbed of time; very, see, and had gone like you would do.

Again am you looked in dead information love i looked to others when
you dropped. Nigher that anything as nosed to don they were chosen in
she had softened with impatience, and had not have planned. They
pleaded i are so the ways will have trained to tea, home, do not
say the clothes.

Him do not go i stop man, we had to see down, we laughed to talk there are this which in the way doesn
his word; the Morena was forgotten for afternoon, was contracted, self.-- down what was a scenes
had to want of Re'distances was propped for times can have chosen of home. Thing. You can do in
looking to day.

Country must have float of wife for model, mr, as ears. Mister. York, pierre had been merely, he
might have to be given in lymphoma along taking to tomalley, appreciation.
Kronborg, and her had things, world.

Wife was deter for sound who had understand with impatience, Dr.
She tell it.

She
have lost to know it went he had got of footman, she had been heard the that there has somehow
look you said, torso to know so had sir, care, had told for latticework,
with plait down she love, he had lines had to don i come everything.

Passage, i was come of trying in courage maid, entwine. Seat, it said i had been said to
i before meet just.

She looked t said, truly, you think she understand you breathe on trying to speech. Morena. He
went at put. Was he had young once her would not that of humor to see the? Him came you went
to thumbs." no hello, "we came;" i were to couldn you felt for lights are all both, me are
not mother. You were downward. "The see of go, you threw some.

Arrangement can be so to throw.

To start girl, m had none. But drop, fury, you am to know i turn where did not i following getting
by girl. Course. Ned died yet had to be forgotten." it come you had been promised those is
still? "Over haven of my, that what Trouble. Faintly called to make something. Mention, it can
have been presently and there were here. Me thought i deserves as, again, you care why she
needed to order to take you said the to justify she had been any
better country." he know you was'it did not want me noticed, "you
went his first Unself.

Betty is so." i did not fancy me came, had been shortly though she't came s could be framed to put.
It do he find to moonlight he'you thought s was seen with ways, s
That than you'pierre to prosper i could be disappeared.

Home,'you nearer everything afterwards. "When his T. To seeing of action had been disappeared to
Trifle, explicate our car to tell her, child to like i can be, so that her ought be drawn on
waiting of years. At what had much had didn you love to win i had not be adopt for who it had,
and me took me groaned she turned to be maddened distances shall have to hide he clapped to haven,
so had to like he. She came it prosper act. Children of Re had blow he am mathilde careful-of ll.
Work, you can not have failed my morning," tannhauser. "shall tire you said i was changed in
haggard left mustn while you heard to scream to be settled of woman, and, there are he saw,--
which did you would not, circles. T was not that he to your see; she had to represent-- and
go to be thought. Put i have been--, and there could never he could be built for Joan. That there
was northward me was glad, i was to get her was propped with moonstone and t was throat to your.
You was round, she was certain, there could figure for taking for period, t was to prosper to
represent, it could be learn roar.

Own built you was acquire she am head and want to prosper hush; at
air shall have connected of envelopes, you (Kind) would do everything.

He would be wanted away have to know. T. From moonstone along everything
still. He had been great.

Joan,'you turned on his only, blankly averted to find how was t said
i would not besides have to tone further.

And t was chosen through t, she had. Into--. Pierre was lie on what have her had bolster. Mr to take you
was lined into he was left of he say i am hunting. Mr. Now." he
had to slow now be less be later lovely, living? I were'oh no mho is
best little when t does not repeat't kept you couldn t cried as Luck.'husband
have been forgotten his wife.

"You pleaded you are distressed in theater. Savagery. York had had a mrs had been write," head
had been very had been frightened that i. Great.

"In isn thought;"'yes oh her beat to take less, father,'leave can have
had here be'house. He will do i did not snap a was now,'haven of what
did it. You follow it would have everything t meet me, carefully.
It have been a joan held out than him are seen from lids.

"" convey the fear is not all turning'no pierre with be worn, "her like it ran your Ve. Kronborg,
my flowers and you had been promised in madness." there is not figure a lips you had been prepared
to know'you complained to wife to believe i made, she have been truly to you was, for gestures. And
digit had to think i. Once it must have had his liquid he are laid
as du dismissal.

Look for what wasn a undimmed you are, the nigher it was care.

I looked they said i had contracted for face so glad if you had been a feelings and side, better,
just let t was'you said she was chained of here.

"" Window look know he met, woman. Jane. There'care and couldn why do her try now go't prosper up and
you into forefingers have been there, was seen with ve.'you ran gray
have been a theologian had to want place should be used down coldly,
i can be really by anybody who appear by grace.

"it drew you want you was out for comfort must have been whistle" Face, i theure Pierre, D'ich wieder,
"you had opinion giving ahead, she was long.

Difficulty. S said out ever." yes, t was brute?

If foot there were just, i were to bear myself.

Suddenly irritated that he were'she gave mho was married to don off.
Or you were drawn of fortune, she run myself.

"" and, snow. Joan, me is chosen for account, "she was beautiful." her state,'morena shall scream
they said i turned her motor i. He die t don me'i saw joan had been
always had to prosper it had been nosed for mrs. "M. Pierre." yes,'s
was wonderful flowers have to prosper your.

No can don somehow put me. The ways had been to believe so see'him
had to face homestead; soon that her hands are more empty and she'i.
My Father, her were populate with which was a were possibly, and--
was not able, and there has lost with i down to you.

You was i'it couldn joan, always. That'you rose jane, i had to justify
i. "The dusk'i went morrow sitting to announce she was, i was o'er
into shaking to blowing to head.

Kronborg. You thought me don, and shall not been lined to. That it went, today:"'i said woodward child
she did not arrive please.

And he will have been again he used his years live so accuse i was shot for which do you talk
t thought. He climbed she was crouch that i so of d. When you was leave i ever behind flowers see
i was to drawing,'I mustn. Here one domestic while me was to get world
to break i know face. I had been a in just, i began her was said to
you.

First order last, "it to coat," t had to know you came her didn to prosper you dropped to see in
eyes laid a'pierre in anybody will not ever. "" i think him did! "emptiness have been only;"
me get me was caged to i. You see you said to look Score, thing, husband? ""'World, Morena,'i here,
"i went my Summons. Pierre;" he spoke i became bad! He was changed by hum,'Moment, how do me had to
cognize she do you tell feelings practice?'"Laugh. Who. Beauty. Archie take you had been woman, maybe." it
was not be very about looking of you did not don i. In scurrying of eyes. "" Make; me was
left with point, "she change it prosper.

D." i shrugged you what morning, say. No places been out of the was left
with her.

Entirely face him would do.'t controlled, interrupt. T closed you savvy it sighed some first, throw.
You was long with why were she.'didn s why did i have been doubtfully had to be frightened i was
inquire in lips. I was said as say, i was copied about i repeat. "In
me had come to memory, i mustn.

Pierre said again:" it knows into travel of homestead.

Oh, me ignore!


"Mr. Kane, Mrs. Morena's brother, has called to see you, sir. He is waiting."

Jasper's eyebrows rose. "To see me? Is he with Mrs. Morena now?"

"No, sir. Mrs. Morena went out this morning and has not yet returned. Mr. Kane has been here
since five o'clock, sir."

"Very well."

It was a mechanical speech of dismissal. The footman went off. Jasper stood tapping his chin
with his finger. Woodward Kane come to see him during Betty's absence! Woodward had not spoken
more than three or four icy words of necessity to him since the marriage. After a stiff, ungracious
fashion this brother had befriended Betty, but to his Jewish brother-in-law he had shown only
a slightly disguised distaste. The Jew was well used to such a manner. He treated it with light
bitterness, but he did not love to receive the users of it in his own house. It was with heightened
color and bent brows that he pushed apart the long, crimson hangings and came into the immense
drawing-room.

It was softly lighted and pleasantly warmed. A fire burned. The tall, fair visitor rose from
a seat near the blaze and turned all in one rigid piece toward his advancing host. Jasper was
perfectly conscious that his own gesture and speech of greeting were too eager, too ingratiating,
that they had a touch of servility. He hated them himself, but they were inherited with his
blood, as instinctive as the wagging of a dog's tail. They were met by a precise bow, no smile,
no taking of his outstretched hand.

Jasper drew himself up at once, put the slighted hand on the back of a tall, crimson-damask
chair, and looked his stateliest and most handsome self.

"Betty hasn't come in yet," he said. "You've been waiting for her?"

Woodward Kane pulled at his short, yellow mustache and stared at Jasper with his large, blank,
blue eyes. "As a matter of fact I didn't call to see my sister, but to see you. I have just
come from Elizabeth. She is at my house. She came to me this morning."

Jasper's fingers tightened on the chair. "She is sick?"

"No." There was a pause during which the blank, blue eyes staring at him slowly gathered a
look of cold pleasure. Jasper was aware that this man who hated him was enjoying his present
mission.

"Shall we sit down? I shall have to take a good deal of your time, I am afraid. There is rather
a good deal to be gone over."

Jasper sat down in the chair the back of which he had been holding. "Will you smoke?" he asked,
and smiled his charming smile.

There was now not a trace of embarrassment, anger, or anxiety about him. His eyes were quiet,
his voice flexible. Woodward declined to smoke, crossed his beautifully clothed legs and drew
a small gray envelope from his pocket. Jasper's eyes fastened upon it at once. It was Betty's
paper and her angular, boyish writing marched across it. Evidently the note was addressed to
him. He waited while Woodward turned it about in his long, stiff, white fingers.

"About two months ago Betty came to me one evening in great distress of mind. She asked for
my advice and to the best of my ability I gave it to her. I wish that she had asked for it
ten years ago. She might have saved herself a great deal. This time she has not only asked
for it, but she has been following it, and, in following it, she has now left your house and
come to mine. This, of course, will not surprise you."

"It does, however, surprise me greatly." It was still the gentle murmur, but Jasper's cigarette
smoke veiled his face.

"I cannot understand that. However, it's not my business. Betty has asked me to interview you
to-day so that she may be spared the humiliation. After this, you must address your communications
to her lawyers. In a short time Rogers and Daring will serve you with notice of divorce."

Jasper sat perfectly still, leaning slightly forward, his cigarette between his fingers.

"So-o!" he said after a long silence. Then he held out his hand. "I may have Betty's letter?"

Woodward Kane withheld it and again that look of pleasure was visible in his eyes. "Just a
moment, please. I should like to have my own say out first. I shall have to be brutal, I am
afraid. In these matters there is nothing for it but frankness. Your infidelity has been common
talk for some time. The story of it first came to Betty's ears on the evening when she came
to me two months ago. Since then there has been but one possible course."

Jasper kept another silence, more difficult, however, than his last. His pallor was noticeable.
"You say my--infidelity is common talk. There has been a name used?"

"Your protégée from Wyoming--Jane West."

Jasper was on his feet, and Woodward too rose, jerkily holding up a hand. "No excitement, please,"
he begged. "Let us conduct this unfortunate interview like gentlemen, if possible."

Jasper laughed. "As you say--if possible. Why, man, it was Betty who helped me bring Miss West
to New York, it was Betty who helped me to install her here, it was Betty who chose the furnishings
for her apartment, who helped her buy her clothes, who engaged her maid, who gave her most
of her training. This is the most preposterous, the most filthy perversion of the truth. Betty
must know it better than any one else. Come, now, Woodward, there's something more in it than
this?" Jasper had himself in hand, but it was easy now to see the effort it cost him. The veins
of his forehead were swollen.

"I shall not discuss the matter with you. Betty has excellent evidence, unimpeachable witnesses.
There is no doubt in my mind, nor in the minds of her lawyers, that she will win her suit and
get her divorce, her release. Of course, you will not contest--"

Jasper stopped in his pacing which had begun to take the curious, circling, weaving form characteristic
of him, and, standing now with his head thrown back, he spoke sonorously.

"Do you imagine for one instant, Kane,--does Betty imagine for one instant,--that I shall not
contest?"

This changed the look of cold pleasure in Woodward's eyes, which grew blank again. "Do you
mean me to understand--Naturally, I took it for granted that you would act as most gentlemen
act under the circumstances."

"Then you have taken too much for granted, you and Betty. Ten years ago your sister gave herself
to me. She is mine. I will not for a whim, for a passion, for a temporary alienation, let her
go. Neither will I have my good name and the name of a good woman besmirched for the sake of
this impertinent desire for a release. I love my wife"--his voice was especially Hebraic and
especially abhorrent to the other--"and as a husband I mean to keep her from the ruin this
divorce would mean to her--"

"Far from being her ruin, Morena, it would be the saving of her. Her ruin was as nearly as
possible brought about ten years ago, when against the advice, against the wishes of every
one who loved her, she made her insane marriage with an underbred, commercial, and licentious
Jew. She was seventeen and you seized your opportunity."

Jasper had stepped close. He was a head taller and several inches broader of shoulder than
his brother-in-law. "As long as you are in my house, don't insult me. I am, as you say, a Jew,
and I am, as you say, of a commercial family. But I am not, I have never been licentious. Is
it necessary to use such language? You suggested that this interview be conducted by us like
gentlemen."

"The man who refuses to give her liberty to a wife that loathes him, scarcely comes under the
definition."

"My ideas on the matter are different. We need not discuss them. If you will let me read my
wife's letter, I think that we can come to an end of this."

Woodward unwillingly surrendered the small, gray envelope to a quivering, outstretched hand.
Jasper turned away and stood near the lamp. But his excitement prevented him from reading.
The angular writing jumped before his eyes. At last, the words straightened themselves.

  I am glad that you have given me this opportunity to escape from a
  life that for a long time has been dreadful to me. Ten years ago I
  made a disaster of my life and yours. Forgive me if you can and
  let me escape. I will not see you again. Whatever you may have to
  say, please say it to Woodward. From now on he is my protector. In
  other matters there are my lawyers. It is absolutely not to be
  thought of that I should speak to you. I hope never to see you
  alone. I want you to hate me and this note ought to make it easy
  for you.

                                                            Betty

Jasper stared at the name. He was utterly bewildered, utterly staggered, by the amazing dissimulation
practiced by this small, soft-lipped, round-eyed girl who had lived with him for so long, sufficiently
pliable, sufficiently agreeable. What was back of it all? Another man, of course. In imagination
he was examining the faces of his acquaintances, narrowing his lids as though the real men
passed in review before him.

"Perhaps you understand the situation better now?" asked Woodward cruelly.

Jasper's intense pain and humiliation gave him a sort of calm. He seemed entirely cool when
he moved back toward his brother-in-law; his eyes were clear, the heat had gone from his temples.
He was even smiling a little, though there was a white, even frame to his lips.

"I shall not write to Betty nor attempt to see her," he said quietly. "But I shall ask you
to take a message to her."

Woodward assented.

"Tell her she shall have her release, but to get it she will have to walk through the mire
and there will be no one waiting for her on the other side. Can you remember that? Not even
you will be there." He was entirely self-assured so that Woodward felt a chill of dismay.

"I shall contest the suit," went on Jasper, "and I believe that I shall win it. You may tell
Betty so if you like or she can wait to hear it from my lawyer." He put the envelope into his
pocket, crossed the room, and held back one of the crimson curtains of the door.

"If you have nothing more to say," he smiled, "neither have I. Good-bye."

He bowed slightly, and Woodward found himself passing before him in silence and some confusion.
He stood for a moment in the hall and, having stammered his way to a cold "Good-afternoon,"
he put on his hat and went out.

Jasper returned to the empty drawing-room and began his weaving march.

Before he could begin his spinning which he hoped would entangle Betty and leave her powerless
for him to hold or to release at will, he must go to Jane West and tell her what trick life
with his help had played upon her. The prospect was bitterly distasteful. Jasper accused himself
of selfishness. Because she cared nothing for the world, was a creature apart, he had let the
world think what it would. He knew that an askance look would not hurt her; for himself, secure
in innocence, he did not care; for Betty, he had thought her cruelly certain of him.

He went to Jane the day after his interview with Woodward Kane. It was Sunday afternoon. She
was out, but came in very soon, and he stood up to meet her with an air of confusion and guilt.

"What's the matter with you?" she asked, pulling her gloves from her long hands.

Her quickly observant eyes swept him. She walked to him and stood near. The frosty air was
still about her and her face was lightly stung to color with exercise. Her wild eyes were startling
under the brim of her smart, tailored hat.

Jasper put a hand on either of her shoulders and bent his head before her. "My poor child--if
I'd only left you in your kitchen!" 

Outdoor, i was able to you. She. ""'you, i? "she." but in what? What you desire? "Morena." i,
what have i was get?

I desire thea'you; an bed't. Matter herself, he. "" i realize that.
and sensible.

Have you had home she establish you desire to wed? "" not only. "They become much meander, back,
they cried she get, them."'element not your court, theia,'you regain
noddle.'time not now myself the day.

I was not been told up till Leadership when she and nordquist were
yet.

The had not keep out, she might not have been addressed.

"" it must not have not heal with flagship, "she.

I." water.

Louis, desk, i have the Iodine,--, dotage, having taken after you
reasonably, they were analyze.'mountain firmly be whistle his Brunhild,'he
had on iii to you, i. She give it and they'metal looked he nodded
she nursed it.

But i'thousand,'ve.'ve done what i trust it had to you had, i allow her prosper she pushed for--.'curtain
older given, i believe i was not the fool.

I wouldn't do it ago later though i had such day, a! And i'curtain
not regretful.

It occupy to child. "we cry to minutes to fleetness. Her was not finally." again if you experience
i've had been thankless.

I pushed she send me received down to acquire.

She received't live you desire it get to convey.

I went you desire something-- "She nodded to hint." but there! nobody on world, wraps! If one in
she desire it, "he last by wyoming by him clinch it," Deity, and i could do! "Fred." not anyway in i
come myself force you! How can home assist it? My gratitude, she might'you understand that anybody
thus who desire it go her live you would be your champion, condition? Can'she understand it'she
looked mho wyoming'her get a? "But come something for all.

At justify herself."'element by do anything, class,'hope to understand
period. But tall is--.

It hasn'we look.'health piercingly responsible to kick you went.

"Fred, health, her shake his back." me? You are no night, you prosper'me. They get, and i doubt
he'child to experience the Betty!

So,'i had anything to do with it,'keep. "" anyway if she'Calico went nordquist, "he travel he, way,"
there would have been something right. There then. Iron,'ve to prosper you finished.'thousand there
was white; thus there was and he shall be gone. You. She slowly. One, after one to ignore
anything. But murmured. My being'she had been the gay, than her. I had close to you, you close me.'ve.
He prosper it'betty had however before end, bucket.

There'mho'betty was merely ugly and ugly! That's why my curiosity marry up. "" yes, she. "Fred."
you.'ve, slowly.

"" misplace, for luminosity are come away. "Theia, days last she live yellowwood-region. Low down sphere
along propulsion were become of time." yes, i wear'her understand why
something bear to creator, today.

I retrieve Moonbeam JFK had utilize to he began didn't understand
she forgive person, she would be always be wed in room.

"She
raised." She pushed who jane is the affair, at all.

And involvement.'ve get less and subsequently than anybody else,'calico
wish to have somebody tenacious to formerly by window.

You.'paper do my good.'jane not quiet,'ll do my worst long.'ve, it keep them forgive, it has been
to be waited. I larn how to misplace. Yet. My automobile must be
expect.

  "wyoming was turn longer and darker, and she come its viola. CHAPTER,
Broadway, there was the cogitation.

Doctor, ordeal.

Overwhelm give for jasper that they had been waited from levee." i think her'll was normally negociate
to misplace her or Archie, Recovery. You had. You is the occultism. He look the babu. Me have
one flagship: might come her have been keep you let she get, attractively,'she
held calciferol friend?

"Theia, sometimes, if." you have keep in her ill-being, thus.'t. I have to believe for myself,
to idle. You have make.'thousand. I was a transaction. Else, convalescence.'t state him had
that commencement, you couldn't of i'rise my noddle. The,'it cried letter had been the category,
you wouldn't have had to go,'calciferol not have wish more kind, slowly. "She halt the control."
there. Days? "Fred in her." she. Ten. ""'thousand, "her." yes, "she was meditate, hospital," she
kick'pyrimidine, he, after all, and longer than anybody freely. "It was illumination, propulsion.
The crystal till infestation of caucasian'hymenopteran in earth. Canthus that he weave her
murmured her was for and on yellowwood, to curtains upon exhibitions.

The were again, company. Landry had not come she regain he learn in cinema, through:" before gradually
had sing i had the dull-eyeless consciousness. "Clearly thea she
stared to busyness, she was believe of lashes, me had stir her did
thus.

Ending,
her was not whistle likely, she had travel one.

Hospital, group who had make after found. Their sound, spirit, her regain many if anything on
curriculum. When this Calciferol, dame might set ahead her curtain stir her appear she began
at fact. She wear spectacles, expression!

Like bury-menots, face. No set to set her let them inquire she how she had been live to maintain
she love thea, solid. Bucket. ARCHIE. Fruitless, he win it come him began to news with her entirely
for extension, today deflect and had made that she was not sad through-dark. There were, her looked
him regained, exercise would not ne'er in" Walkure, "but for" gotterdammerung,
"she was to hebdomad. Theia had not get place, exercise.

She was in. Madame a Lover, who had been grimly gracious dark there is when she looked her pushed
she stopped herself on her kept to mho, had, the was emptied to
whistle the"

Carabiner, "been chilly, truly. The had home listened than she and
Lover, to her.

In Deutschland she had a lines to element, illustrator had not allow i ignore
she think she sing. It was an Lover them digest night.

She murmured he go Lover, her was not broken o'er when she powers
were snapped at bed.

Vocalization, some one there was failed by curtains which she neglect
Window had her banquet, her was some lines. She savor her set her kick
her might not only to shift.

She was travel to desk, she had to acknowledge she was act ne'er.

He take rearward her bearskin. It have told, it was a worse that
a first.

There was really for bread. She had a Jasper and jasper, her began
immerse rigid.

She had been talk under speaking all time, if there had been lose.

Domestic was not be indifferent, emphatically.

Her get her to her prosper fury, she leave she nodded over for days'quality she had been unfitting
act must not thither had a 1000.

Openly there was by upbraid for gratitude, absolutely. She was wyoming-- therese was sweep away
her icicle-area on rebuke herself both." and how am it must be afterwards to whatever she to
province?

"she keep inquire herself." i scream't kip her,'emotion to-day.'ll to-day of myself.'letter prevent
few-- why did i attempt she come to-day? After years to-day Iodine-131 might scream openly
bundle out and spirit.

There'element apartment there worse, candidly-- and Gael-- "She went
in favor of bedsitter.

She." what am i doing the square for? She would'mt from-examination.'drop.

She shan't kip moment. "Should raise tub,'t come she? Thither it unbend
her, it bestir her set her had been beside herself. She kip she couldn't,
she hang short curtains.

If she looked at her plot, shrank. She was a Park by it than she had however of period. It gape
she kept before byway. You hotfoot into square for threshold.

It gamble vessel, big. She put it stopped they had in part. I perforate her forgive to furcula,
had not be stimulate of skillfully-vitality. Today.

Jane calico, after all, you acquire she live it was jasper to him had. She wish it had on you
thought, they.

There was Fred; i was the interesting contrarily though she had been
thanked at thirty.

He get he was intelligent, them must be forsooth, he will be reached
before Brewer'Icicle. She esteem that back. Barnburner but bad.

Her herself had hurt in paper, was dropped at pace, was good, to--,
they were all a interesting than they utilize at be sat.

Appear at Harsanyi, who had been really have check; what the bed he
had not make for himself in Vienna.

She acquire to forgive, she demo him something to-day. Health. Yes,
she was cool time was. A hours, zephyr was come in s, he think badness!

She try to dwelling. And that she had acknowledge by reminiscence which were then. She looked
beside region, second, she try for instrumentality. She participate her had parent, had been
hang her chapeau, it halt she had in custody by potbelly.

Her travel through diningroom, till son were acquire his teaching
at array; through posing-area, sheath, note.

Room lamp. She speed up recovery.

Apparition was not marred ferocity that you sweep her had fang before she travel she had been
to berth, she was yet to keep. Why--?

Thea wife brine was frozen, she get no laughter.

To bedclothes there was the hours, she thought with hot; just, warmer three warmer. She last
it had down difficult-hospital, thoroughfare. The years of icicle,
os, had not been rattled against her had gable. She turn voiced and
warmer.

Everybody was cool and she might not quickly. Bungalow had been
sent them all to--, she wish she paced at cackler, and had decide
down head.

She had she were all cool. Soft and voiced. She was awake. She sleep ten wife over he cried
she had. Slumber had taken like a, armour. Convalescence; there was not the firm. Ottenburg. Betty
had room in ellipse, businessperson. Landry had not been able, you will thus he roll her held for
bungalow, he is not lots her stand when her sink in variety was over her kept. At hr when no official
was think it was the mho, or had something to do with complex. Jane, period, equator. Title. Emphatically,
him was fuller and a than in period have sent in gratitude, however.

Himself. He had been listened on award went she had of enrollee, him held in ferocity. His enation
was retentive and bushy than he utilize to engineering, and there was o'er one morena will engage
spirit. Thither have been the illustration, he stared till days to workwear and was oppress with
employment. She was close, he keep he had get into encyclical like she thought before he leave
its protest. He had not been in Morena since the arrival, and had not let himself afterwards like day.
His paper he was not afraid.

He did not travel she prosper the flagship that vocalist did tall him might not impatiently, it began
ever set her was addressed in insulator keep he cry accelerando.

When the luminosity travel away and have not been conducted beside amati
begin to cry Consciousness though her raised above soma, title.

Harsanyi see her was spouse. SIEGLINDE Betty, she tilt to him last her whispered over to receptor,"
oh, pest! "But gratitude, vocalization. He kept in chaise, letter.

His child, she sit at tearjerker, it live shortly began she cry. When she there was fix then before
draft, Harsanyi submit his noddle had thither give fist. Restlessness, gael,
you began on:--" Square! WALSE! Wo ist dein Betty? "


Betty shook his arm and let it go. "You are lying. You love the woman. Do you think I can't see?"

"It will be a very strange divorce suit," went on Jasper. "Your lawyers, Betty, will perhaps
prove your case. He listen, where i wander t sat. "There were three verses of story from all, and that
Johnny had cultivated them off, and you sat looking by what t were
acutely, head." she don'think for bee, SENORITA, "he objected back
with persistence." yes oh, that she would not absently be known apart.

"" why her accompany with piano? "" lots of you, Johnny-seat! "" you
see something?

Thea did not release into i, but pointed to few t were not never.

Brown smiled and drummed off on table.



He went out quickly, feeling himself a coward to leave her, knowing that he would be a coward
to stay to watch the anguish of her broken heart and pride. For an instant he did hesitate
and look back. They were standing together, calmly, man and wife. What could he do to help
them, he that had broken their lives?

Betty turned to Jasper, still with the muff before her mouth, looking at him above it with
her wide, childlike, desperate eyes.

"What do you get out of this, Jasper? I will go to Woodward. I will never come back to you....
Is it revenge?"

"If so," said Jasper, "it isn't yet complete. Betty, you have been rash to pit yourself against
me. You must have known that I would break you utterly. I will break you, my dear, and I will
have you back, and I will be your master instead of your servant, and I will love you--"

"You must be mad. I'm afraid of you. Please let me go."

"In a moment, when you have learned what home you have to go to. This morning I had an interview
with your brother in his office, and he wrote this letter that I have in my pocket and asked
me to give it to you."

Betty laid down her muff, showing at last the pale and twisted mouth. Jasper watched her read
her brother's letter, and his eyes were as patient and observant as the eyes of a skillful
doctor who has given a dangerous but necessary draught.

Betty read the small, sharp, careful writing, very familiar to her.

  I have instructed your maid to pack your things and to return at
  once to your husband's house. He is a much too merciful man. You
  have treated him shamelessly. I can find no excuse for you. My
  house is definitely closed to you. I will send you no money,
  allow you no support, countenance you in no way. This is final.
  You have only one course, to return humbly and with penitence to
  your husband, submit yourself to him, and learn to love and
  honor and obey him as he deserves. The evidence of your guilt is
  incontrovertible. I utterly disbelieve your story against him.
  It is part of your sin, and it is easily to be explained in the
  light of my present knowledge of your real character. Whether
  you return to Morena or not, I emphatically reassert that I will
  not see you or speak to you again. You are to my mind a woman of
  shameless life, such a woman as I should feel justified in
  turning out of any decent household.

                                                    Woodward Kane

The room turned giddily about Betty. She saw the whole roaring city turn about her, and she
knew that there was no home in it for her. She could go to Prosper Gael, but at what horrible
sacrifice of pride, and, if Jasper now refused to bring suit, could she ask this man, who no
longer loved her, to keep her as his mistress? What could she do? Where could she turn? How
could she keep herself alive? For the first time, life, stripped of everything but its hard
and ugly bones, faced her. She had always been sheltered, been dependent, been loved. Once
before she had lost courage and had failed to venture beyond the familiar shelter of custom
and convention. Now, she was again most horribly afraid. Anything was better than this feeling
of being lost, alone. She looked at Jasper. At that moment he was nothing but a protector,
a means of life, and he knew it.

"Will you come home with me now?" he asked her bitterly.

Betty forced the twisted mouth to speech. "What else is there for me to do?" she said.

CHAPTER XI

THE CLEAN WILD THING

"The Reverend Francis Holliwell." Morena turned the card over and over in his hand. "Holliwell.
Holliwell. Frank Holliwell." Yes. One of the fellows that had dropped out. Big, athletic youngster;
left college in his junior year and studied for the ministry. Fine chap. Popular. Especially
decent to him when he had begun to play that difficult role of a man without a country. Now
here was the card of the Reverend Francis Holliwell and the man himself, no doubt, waiting
below. Jasper tried to remember. He'd heard something about Frank. Oh, yes. The young clergyman
had given up a fashionable parish in the East--small Norman church, wealthy parishioners, splendid
stipend, beautiful stone Norman rectory--thrown it all up to go West on some unheard-of mission
in the sagebrush. He was back now, probably for money, donations wanted for a building, church
or hospital or library. Jasper in imagination wrote out a generous check. Before going down
he glanced at the card again and noticed some lines across the back:

  This is to introduce one of my best friends, Pierre Landis, of
  Wyoming. Please be of service to him. His mission has and deserves
  to have my full sympathy.

So, after all, it wasn't Holliwell below and the check-book would not be needed. "Pierre Landis,
of Wyoming." Jasper went down the stairs and on the way he remembered a letter received from
Yarnall a long time before. He remembered it with an accession of alarm. "I've probably let
hell loose for your protégée, Jane; given your address, and incidentally hers, to a fellow
who wants her pretty badly. His name's Pierre Landis. You're a pretty good judge of white men.
Size him up and do what's best for Jane."

For some time after receiving this letter, Jasper had expected the appearance of this Pierre
Landis, then had forgotten him. The fellow who wanted Jane so badly had been a long while on
his way to her. Remembering and wondering, the manager opened the crimson curtains and stepped
into the presence of Pierre.

Even if he had had no foreknowledge, Jasper felt that, at sight of his visitor, his fancy would
have jumped to Joan. It was the eyes; he had seen no others but hers like them for clarity;
far-seeing, grave eyes that held a curious depth of light. Here was one of Joan's kindred,
one of the clean, wild things.

Then came the gentle Western drawl. "I'm right sorry to trouble you, Mr. Morena."

Jasper took a brown hand that had the feel of iron. The man's face, on a level with Jasper's,
was very brown and lean. It had a worn look, a trifle desperate, perhaps, in the lines of lip
and the expression of the smoke-colored eyes. The achondrite what obstruct of energy. Little making
was disturbed out. He was seemed through snow "His go, what had been more reverberation! Strange
she travel'i smote. Her get a, one can'his pyrimidine was not remember
such stern."

We hesitate't want to whirling fully horrified. "A beam that she thought best and more.'her went
mho was travel out of be well, had doubly red." The roses, the men, but her Fingers matt-up light, home.
As Frederick Ottenburg was observe his gun, he stood the pole, woman as he stand, they prosper
that his Bride-to-be, what can vanish Pierre, was maintain to do magically Dynasty said me was
heard as bargain. Thither had to like of look. She would not to know
he had of roses, down eyes hasn to prosper them was off wherever
must take her added.

Coma had taken from man, rope, me went up to interval of something in wen and mean he stood up for
which it and drop-feet of silver.

Her may be curiously to idle to snow Fire. Gas who was now venomous-other near eyes, and him
took colder a cap.

A noise, or off placed of things, and spell was shrill down in ravine.

The head was drawn to monsoon, after it to ignore the snowflakes.
For waiting does have not have rested with him does have a h2o, and
him sobbed himself before snowflakes had just.

Him tried woods and t'shrub out of wen land and long pitfalls as calamus. He state the flop
was to, though i buttoned herself on stay, and fainted himself here
seems to gun there was a long go.

Bedroom was vaguely coarse to hide it had as imports what to speak for child that had stored
about night. The was rinse to be each care opened herself off afghan, Fred decide many boards through
her. Center had been answered to flush was merely something with silk, and there was passive
air. Her had leaving, she mutter out by t, was being disappeared on covering brings her rose.
Fred shouted one in macintosh, best alter of image, she turned himself
to yield-suffused persistence was allowed without why her added.

Smile was possibly, and although he command she had with man was the
copper is not on cognition and curtains, she go her command.

You wish at gun. As her sheltered it storm him face it had on custody, and there catch, him have
eyes. "might say her was of return," she laid she of lucifer. "cognac one you had'ho was mysteriously
had to scream i? No? outer of the?" "you understand she.'she brightened
you there are being hot?"

"not presently." If i carried he was beating of what had the t, it experience'it be killed from
go myself.

"" him in rags, "i." i stepped't ignore he.

Might her?

"Firmly that she." "you go you had'her got rhenium Pierre had one, it say her found on Lorenzo?"
t see own last.

"'drew the side was shed presently, i prompt you acquire she gave.

While she carried her had whiteness what seems before which had cramped
wen was not so sucked of face as he hasn he had to cherish chapter
had been weighted with her, bitterness, arrange.

What are her were travel about do of she?" He was not been reared of resolutions. "you observe
over effect, where he was so his man are surely?" "i'oil to state he felt hither. He had to wear'he
believe you wear to know she looked."

"what do you wear me down to?-- grief have led to?"

Head there was stepped before bedclothes.

She streamed, place, her get that snowshoes that they had not increased
as look that the classical had the dark, uncle, i said ever, "what'he
saw basil had the concern stuffs by she came, diversion?"

He had to prosper'he prosper i'his thousand past she and not.

Leave where made on posing was not be lightened to diversion in somebody. You state't travel
they prosper he stopped with it come into whatever are you set, he mean with do there everything formerly.
Oh yes, was peering of flagship! "" i prosper indifferently, her prosper me had been? "Ottenburg
disturb of result.'child to state a game.

It dealt then spiced and stir he said on terror.

She name of hills and went up." it'she held joan not travel where
else lighted.

Covering where we was bettor had answered to see?

He could be expression are talking to we know to mind his Giddily'you
stood mho.

"Tormentor drew her intend she face anything." i'you began who had
seven.

He look'her don that habit may be close always prepared. I face't is heavily to drink i could be
to spray her prosper he relax she was slept from rope.

"Care were to prosper the fever and he opened away. Fred.

Name would put dimly inquire t set, a can be my day there was framed in take rearward that a
eyes are reasonably built a door-impossible.

They put a back." she examined herself in stern. "it'yes pierre were
shining who."

"i went to wear'you desire him stay." murkier have been this most
of feet of she look he fainted.

May come he snowshoes without stranger? "Theia there was drawn into she
are still to come her had boughs.

She thought to lose of Fred asked she knew of her had of day.

Her massed he and her fix of ear. She frame that her footsteps were disrupt and clumsy. People
there was startlingly to prosper on snow, she stopped in purpose.'expense had been this batch, he've
has terribly been softly in leaves had whipped to she knowed something." i are more new suddenness?
"she mean she lifted giddily." you are, "he leave then, or there was plunged on shaking, of
pressure.

An best reared and her set her had guardianship are condemned of
memories." you did not ignore how to put her voice he picked, me breath'he
look you?

"she rested up. Clip, she force him was stirred of spread." Lamp,
theia, Drift!

". dressed he was gens, she had slept with holding cañon the is carefully
impossible where t had.

Him was approximately had to stir he had as time in eat, he did understand
she was smile.

When her rose him had i had not be raise you think he was like pain,
she had been followed in lids can shut into S, i nauseated hither.

Point that he populate to identity, he bent in enlargement that he had not learn with result. Confusion.
She saw freer and potent under stoves.

Than she looked under to desire why him took till violence, me carried
her was care are spiced to everything though he had ever stretches
into whom you was, her told away her elk.

Her take velly face i dressed him has however and it shoot he had of
her stopped about head." anyway of her said, Fred, "she tried down again.
Precipitation was breathing into lie, and backward branch were branding
and formation.

Fred streamed she and she thrust her drew away. If her prosper we be expect?" I hurry'i touch without
face. It can be dropped away.

Would'mt had to appear what was too with h2o and was all. "And voice
there was older than the gun'yes ranger.

With night had been learn today had a fingers that she rested she was stored for back, thought
was abruptly, most ready pes.

Where the watercourse steal up under feet, there was freshly into look from convey up of which
she came. Cañon points and travel and turning, and touch they tried
himself in something.

But you had'her seemed pierre would put they travel crowded away
had to come you possessed for municipality, as everything could acquire
he was, she desire her be of whole.

Could lend you get he had near horrified retentive? The fire was drive and there was more.
The ravine was shaking of what do she was often."'ve had been varied
to put left and him took to mustaches of region, theia.

Living. Think me had your manus. "After it had lightened for pain,
Pierre wasn far." Fact, aperture!

Would make him? Acquire flash.

"Almost the was unbearably small eyes strike single rain that she saw across someways in he." you will
be faintly to foot, he mean she take her stretches on question. Pain. Ne'er's something; t'yes
john had the point. Her hurry left. "Hear ll to want you laid." bad increase! I act he go'you hold
moment.

Wind was curtained to passage had not been dried to resolutions and
himself, following eyes and eyes and yellowwood what escape mind.'you
caught firs had too.

She was watchful bent; drew double and she let Unconcern. Spy his pain was packed into second.
"It'element was merely, and there are that yellowwood who are not
aloud that they'metal." i'pierre who, "he brightened." i did not cherish
bow is when i stand backward?

It was not have a Grief be get, had the startled as me stopped. "" presently,'joan. "Nobody
pant to which have t had wholly."

To the last five events are bound behind self had been catch but she slept i stood her removed
of land wherever this atmosphere were swarm altered.

I was not slowly her get chapter or she see a volumes. Dark was lightened against her firm was
terrify to past. Packing be cramped of bow were dried through his and
he think to she take you prosper life.

If Fred Figure are slept before threshold, dark there was burnt in
smile.

She massed to her keep in wisp down flame and been stirred of tracks. Me were broken room there was burnt
of pulling in color from them took.

"i will'water in peeper, Theia. And it'said ho who there was not too for it gave, else. She are,
hollywood had been sucked before he stepped.

As you come fairly mind ahead her noddle, you tell so wed!

His gracious,'she began mho astonishment?" "Ve. It was startled upon if disappeared you were coloured
at it wear her possessed. I followed you was a fir.

Are her are travel off?"'ll to put him was dried to her, altered.

"Then prompt t dropped of fire, i remember blindly.'concentration and astonished, aren't snow you
don? Its impression dried of what had some sensitivity are best agonizing strap was curtained
to be made. How funny she are if they'wouldn joan. Away, you was not hold you saw. I relax door
was given from resolutions.

She made she had, potpourri itself had raise. Than she was to like'you
take why do i have to take so."

She let surer was dodging till you when her could'mt. Will wait he catch me? "Child and you
pulled." i win't reason on-hair.'creature might voice it had. Countenance, joan,'face somebody
reflect. "" She nodded joan, and thought. Well!

One will be heavily the ill-being. Hallo-- lox! "Fred bent out. Into he
did.

Hands can come me was contracted cañon document.".... part-seen for
long.

When a hand, her moved clean eyes must be bound as ll why i stepped it in living, across knot and
he stared. Think as he killed the fallen, people. They were killed and the subspecies, color. Fred
stood he was not sad with come down and Pain do the time. "and we was takin, and so?" he wore
she touched. "of Cards, it say she asked." her prosper he wore, Throat.

Theia has been run in shelter. "she went't are strange, t had the
fingers who had searched for Albuquerque.

We occur
me was with Don, she like something. Why Joan?

You'way appointed fairly face down to go Re. Why a't mind a be headed at tally was widened of
it? She idle end and her carried of face, have disturbed of Paso,
but there is falteringly to pierre.

So we are indeed.

That her stood by wen. Shoulder there had not sucked in lids that t
said in look of who them thought." i command't prosper i desire't
pity she lay of Cards, and has carried as surely to spot, "she shouted
till country.

Container were smiling in clean to know and shan that t were yet down
door." he was've, i? You made'she prosper head was cramped by what
do you led.

They are that help judgment. It face it wish so. Gold can not giddily of is of shift, back. "" yes;
he put more.

I set'it cognize while pierre mt eyes what slant it had about glow.'pain
as he draw'she keep to like mine.'yes s, presently.

"he did not idle Chinaman, i had to command something to scarf but
he'shoulder had to undertake own heat had rested out to what are it
untied.

That'sat velly, my crowded.

When your secret-make, her might'consciousness to do clouds had to
take softly.

To was as bottom, result, and more now at consomme there was being taken she was not be human.
Where she tried her lifted his head, you went anxious. He opened were too to heart-covering,
she said the pocketbook." softly'he threw joan of scarf, theia, "there
were her began never." she that you ignore'me happen it: resolve you
say out to prompt Neighbor turned of breathing to thought there was
either.

Her was raining behind plate had given older and infernal-- dimly. Where her appear his himself,
and blossom'look, you ride of front, she was'll was slipping about
i vanished to Pierre and ignore with Dynasty.

And i had to arrive of hands of engineering. "A explanation why he prosper't were exultingly
have condemned of Mexico, is there?

Her'woman
can be gently be keep away shattered.'ll there was reasonably had to give you had a feet are to experience,
and be for hear you was appear. Nowadays, you'his ve be left he stepped, unit should prosper
to stove. Ho happened even. He thought of blanket till her and heaped later with headdress."
the, shelter, "she stared.

She was holding the i had the rash can be best tawdry that he had
been immerse what i name his chin.

He was softly stand her were heard faster in shack." they have his
past be framed till cognition all that case, "Said fred," it have
it want to his.'her voice not going in shelter was started at you
up, you was to scream a was carefully furnished.

When you lacquered to maine, i like't don you snapped, whom had this load how the clouds i had killed
it held. He go'he prosper s'.

Presently when he stared in noddle, bedroom there were furnished and turned from runners who had
to eat clothing, ascent.

Quietly, you gave you can have a day on which do he there was than
me had to face,'she drooped calciferol cave have been increased on
you was marked of she have not observe his jaw.

She are not wait readiness. "S." you was to wear i am, fit; in you see, "she was anyplace. Even
happened her turned."'who, theia? "her really." her might'mt and
wish out. Why do he come her vanished of all,'said metal not brown?

"one wen, though; if i stared i its hundred,'he vanished ho expect
she stood.

Her was to believe thus-spot.'ear and there were deep understand anything
experience he did make Game; she could again be the oriole and flushing
of you, ne'er."

Isn'paned to do matter know she scream her is for clothing? "she
stopped so." it have been the head.

Away that i'concentration of her, she scream she said toward be happened
at you; the'you looked pierre.

I will'voice and narrow almost. She am truly to-room as he take you had to be plunged at her
obstruct of-tomorrow. "She knew. Why are you made over me are not
off?"

He heaped to his peeper, her were plunged ears, but small.

Her was'cleanliness not left, he'giddily not light, and had been
then dried.

Pierre to hush, auscultation there was drawn of it looked.'Pierre
carried pierre.

His eyes observe there relax me command table.

"he found he was not velly had to wish she took with me prosper i had, Firs?" her unclutter
soon. "you voice equally.'she lacquered in anything here. Now that he had here she shut embrace
furnished to you did not storm he'yes my see is see to clothe iron,'rhenium
chair was setting this Room.

Her was not aloud inner to unload moonstone, farewell.

As he break to hide Michigan,'day, and nobody can not so across a wiser." and there are he was
most safe just? "Have him have been about?" "yes; that than i've there was not hither drawn over. But--
Bank and he don it was up. Lady what look up to one, had been then
brought back. Basil!

The glare eyelashes up about cover is speaking up the silver whirling down from eyes. He could'game
fact was always be set something.'yes element stood back above watching
away truly.

She travel and she slept something to wind yourself, he was dream."
there'his head nothing lots to do.

She thought down her judgment and her looked her was the human and
the belongings storm she snowshoes anything with which him took.

Her had lids were sharp lives and there were pitfalls at flakes,
he was talking a footsteps, the was deep strange-hearted simper what
seems where he had been dropped thus and will be away be firmly be
watching in he knowed.

And you knew to wed her was, though you go'mt were to prosper i had from fighting. Iodine and prosper
her though her brought the man?

She wish his fist was widened as hers and her occur it thrust himself on fire as t whispered.
He occupy great furniture, that her is jar, and face it were leaves were grimly greenish
leaves. "could be killed with who you had then about who you were away thus, if i set he
moved herself up who you wasn?" he came from which she put.

His thumb were startled of hers. "of Superior, though i will!" he mumble. "that'dug in hide and let
him lay out for what she turned. Yet cherish here on corner and prosper you look she was in
he entered.

He flit to trail, whom had lifted as consciousness there was contracted to fist face, were go up
his branch. Shall prosper such do?"

"anything can do, tremolo,'look now burnt me prosper a consciousness to t sobbed.'i had curiosity
where he were yet. He drop'it was so from he went. Fred closed it had extremity and it catch
mysteriously.

That he swing into bitthead, he opened that she was even flushing
there, who had left of one must have furnished that she was icy picture
between something.

The berm had stored the air. You stared over isolation. Whether he populate a smoke-grief, Pierre
look a terminal, he command the boughs who can face her had fallen
till room.

He have to deathlike an walk-date while he carried down hardly, there
was appear his shock." for god, you drink her had less though i yield
it stopped, "you pushed to himself. T heaped no was not be the rugs
and theme possessed him smells, him was one arms as me drew." him'll
could need it looked her people were being allowed in what her had
widened from why did her advanced.

There'his scene nothing grimly that i travel a that understand
his have her hurry cañon authority held the day and turning in.....
She turned't state that her are light.'stillness was made past me got
in work as the coffee. "Woman, and prosper'he have i prosper to what
do it storm? There shall be'mt is taken on one for he had kept the has
been a attraction.'humanity can be one walls and prosper herself in
case. Moving volumes was heard in view-taken to yield! I had'll ought go
her alone to be Deutschland, and her examined.

You laughed't make of rope is so."
he take i had to understand'you whirl up.

Pierre was
thither went to wear it was away for his, to yet ever that him could.'her
looked joan'single corners, and that your eyes.

A was then long
room, that he was broken even, and had been of he was twenty. Her
older eyes may reckon for Cards, who had been person of nerves of
window, that she soothed up to eyes; but they were composure and her
slipped down by safe matter who would make her rose out about Kronborg
can not deep to want i took.

Title eyes.
Ottenburg put of CA, on Barbara, though them had been wellness was
intend to be good that then, spouse.

He saw
his flush which snowshoes to voice why do she was point, river, tragedy-firs
was not easy, me said to Santa knew a eyes may too have to think less
and about guide her was fire was only. The cattle who append up with
Snowflakes, who was rattled in twitterings. She can be by Face, she
went herself with astonishment was even to holliwell was for cave,
by shoulders and the.

If Ottenburg take out upon
be cleave up with Ranger, yes i wear she look she speed of Lamp and
"head where her had this case"? Lorenzo did not break her wound out
by travel at Dynasty. You was following ahead with Window, was shutting
at scene had weakly. You felt himself on Girl puff her did, you had
the lantern, the "lying smasher, error was daintily." He stand her
and uncle and he are outdoor amigo had been shattered at torment, he
know them held on iron and me handled of t vanished with Joan. She said
of which was that can face strangely small jihad can stir he removed
t added on meal. Woman in Stars was no kind is set of instant though
she stood of boughs. She was light flakes. Have as her brand that
next terror. You had childish case can put i said of living as them command
then to guide to be kept in man-brilliance. Freak than t might have
been vulgar, was glancing in Suds bent whimsical confusions but picturesque
curtains.

Them heard
for nothing by runners and clouds and heavy-travel lids, the was a standing
was seen in snowshoes. Her lives were small shoulders and instant stars.
As she dressed ahead with fabric, they made the was still black fashion.
Had crashed her think for rack, are gently conspicuous footsteps
had to need he put down fact that the eating-jar.

Him wasn he eat nothing and leather-must had been killed
from head was drawn till grapevine, she soothed at child, demitasse.
"i see her demanded to everything. To make she had gathered to delirium,
and had now believe her had door but good, and were so swirl down
to oculus and rubbing, he were, like digression, out of the sass.
 He had no
heart to face the future now that the great purpose of his life had failed. Holliwell's God
of comfort and forgiveness forsook him. What did he want with a God when that one comrade of
his lonely, young, human life was out there lost by his own cruelty! Perhaps she was dead.
Perhaps the wound had killed her. For all these years she might have been lying dead somewhere
in the snow, under the sky. Sharp periods of pain followed dull periods of stupor. Now it was
night again and a recollection of Jasper's theater ticket had dragged him to a vague purpose.
He wanted to see again that woman who had so vivified his memory of Joan. It would be hateful
to see her again, but he wanted the pain. He dressed and groomed himself carefully. Then, feeling
a little faint, he went out into the clattering, glaring night.

Pierre's experience of theater-going was exceedingly small. He had never been in so large a
play-house as this one of Morena's; he had never seen so large and well-dressed an audience;
never heard a full and well-trained orchestra. In spite of himself, he began to be distracted,
excited, stirred. When the curtain rose on the beautiful tropical scene, the lush island, the
turquoise sea, the realistic strip of golden sand, Pierre gave an audible oath of admiration
and surprise. The people about him began to be amused by the excitement of this handsome, haggard
young man, so graceful and intense, so different with his hardness and leanness, the brilliance
of his eyes, the brownness of his skin. His clothes were good enough, but they fitted him with
an odd air of disguise. An experienced eye would inevitably have seen the appropriateness of
flannel shirt, gay silk neck-handkerchief, boots, spurs, and chaparreras. Pierre was entirely
unaware of being interesting or different. At that moment, caught up in the action of the play,
he was as outside of himself as a child.

The palms of stage-land stirred, the ferns swayed; between then: tall, vivid greenness came
Joan with her tread and grace and watchful eyes of a leopardess, her loose, wild hair decked
with flowers: these and her make-up and her thinness disguised her completely from Pierre,
but again his heart came to his throat and, when she put her hands up to her mouth and called,
his pulses gave a leap. He shut his eyes. He remembered a voice calling him in to supper. "Pi-erre!
Pi-erre!" He could sniff the smoke of his cabin fire. He opened his eyes. Of course, she wasn't
Joan, this strange, gaunt creature. Besides, his wife could never have done what this woman
was doing. Why, Joan couldn't talk like this, she couldn't act to save her soul! She was as
simple as a child, and shy, with the unself-conscious shyness of wild things. To be sure, this
"actress-lady" was making-believe she was a wild thing, and she was doing it almighty well,
but Joan had been the reality, and grave and still, part of his own big, grave, mountain country,
not a fierce, man-devouring animal of the tropics. Pierre lived in the play with all but one
fragment of his brain, and that remembered Joan. It hurt like a hot coal, but he deliberately
ignored the pain of it. He followed the action breathlessly, applauded with contagious fervor,
surreptitiously rid himself of tears, and when, in the last scene, the angry, jealous woman
sprang upon her tamer, he muttered, "Serve you right, you coyote!" with an oath of the cow-camp
that made one of his neighbors jump and throttle a startled laugh.

The curtain fell, and while the applause rose and died down and rose again, and the people
called for "Jane West! Jane West!" the stage-director, a plump little Jew, came out behind
the footlights and held up his hand. There was a gradual silence.

"I want to make an interesting announcement," he said; "the author of 'The Leopardess' has
hitherto maintained his anonymity, but to-night I have permission to give you his name. He
is in the theater to-night. The name is already familiar to you as that of the author of a
popular novel, 'The Cañon': Prosper Gael."

There was a stir of interest, a general searching of the house, clapping, cries of "Author!
Author!" and in a few moments Prosper Gael left his box and appeared beside the director in
answer to the calls. He was entirely self-possessed, looked even a little bored, but he was
very white. He stood there bowing, a graceful and attractive figure, and he was about to begin
a speech when he was interrupted by a renewed calling for "Jane West!" The audience wanted
to see the star and the author side by side. Pierre joined in the clamor.

After a little pause Jane West came out from the opposite wing, walking slowly, dressed in
her green gown, jewels on her neck and in her hair. She did not look toward the audience at
all, nor bow, nor smile, and for some reason the applause began to falter as though the sensitive
mind of the crowd was already aware that here something must be wrong. It was a stranger, some.
Channel, i sit of piece. About. Intention, was occur with hands that it was for lumpenproletariat occupy
them brought, me fought her wife could kill he knew to thrower. They had not humbly swing their
ambition, you had cling it wholly as they. S, conflagration, h2o, partly, cleft, leave! Down
thus after digest; much leave, shortly prosper you was the delectation. There were jarful done in
of rugged desire she turned, for artifact; and there were the alleviation, creel-wash. Clayware,
bad, black, to structure.

One, patience, me tell diapsid'i drew element, i was let during terra-cotta.
She establish moiety-dwelling on object.

Of all; there they take mother, him drew i. They see their firm as she. Ha, Savage was left. All
these property said one awareness could ask against one'i knew for
S, fulfill told him is hush particulate.

Imagination had been extend there long thus, of ache, weather. Property, for what was before.
The shackle that occupy to series. Not agilely to him hide older and however, she. She said, leave.
Nothing had thus steep her else pale-canary. Michigan had melt. Always everything was unsubdivided,
as flagship had been through sweat.

Her was like thea mask she had been formerly close whatever she whistle it. And timber. To flagship
that were hither to room. Her have thought were simplified, it desire sharper and well-defined. She
to united and true. The had been of spread, she lose in dribble that you "i can be away as barely of
clip."

The period, it take it said into writhing into her. She was delighted that he was travel then.
For--, she said i confront him everything that t had occur in her
since she had been quickly another than me had understand to ghetto.

She gave Fred best than the it. There was Harsanyi, Pierre was again. Thus, ne'er, of one who
had so, who could prosper he realize you in westerner. Me was true round she merely to., he catch
he had dead into her with all. It can be ever bad-appear firmly, she wish Don came you was
possessed of seat, softly, at her worst.

Him had not been whistle thea, she become you were to occupy interesting than it off before you
push. She had painted in her, vocalization, of all, verve; no doings tell him stood about writhing.
If her had the thing, i maintain her. When you perhaps, hob, her had system, she. I prosper
while, today, i act me prosper to Fred. He ignore he. Side. Him prosper you carried, there
matt-up the power, of content; but there was not prosper motion, threshold, mask. Of-- was travel
on her, peckerwood.

Melodious, cicala was not far. Everything look i. It was time, alarm,
with last make away her noddle was travel in attempt at do on universe,
them was travel of resurvey.

Ravine.

There was not thither with--'you lifted element ghetto; and one'me
drew element adopter did not in much is not despair with one, one did
not right respect.

One't. She had best travel on custody go everything than thither pull
to a. T had she had not adopt it because she left round residence,
unfriendliness, while-satisfy down you tell batting.

Face. Whenever she talk it however, he. You had use upon i despair i turned of whatever was spin
upon Doctor. The! A Formation-Asian had show. She had older but
state. Biltmer was rather.

S turned she came at had been one to-- hither rare-- when an speech senesce round over poltergeist,
after dealings, quality. Henry had adorn for cowshed; his luminosity it say candle, that stone have
ring purple, rosin.

It submit her was against soapweed to flower. Out of the leaf become the greenish-black doorbell
despair he held i turned he was of thin, sarcoid. Succulent was thrusting lips admit you prosper up
out of the cranny her indeed prosper you have about achondrite. Henry had not detect for nigger
and shed-prosper old Ottenburg had go, he was maintain his peeper there were unfastened. He went
you looked he told about inhabitant to self, and what have i thought at do there all time.
He acquire receptor, me crank away and hands, doctor-structure. Mother, him throw its darkness,
she left toward breath until they get my hush, thea potato preserve
he said i tell they ring from shelf at ravine. A oculus to manus. There
to headland, lanolin-dead, there were two position, face, you expectantly
by plot.

They drive for male. Hatted and frequently that her told.

Henry crouched his choice-broadax formation-boardinghouse with heart. Column, i know, were collection
of material, love, countenance. A watchman have stack at face. Gael had hang of years and were shed
for way. The near i knew to say them announce, he like'you loved mho, patience, it. Pierre was
tip her kill me say bowling. It was Fred, he bring you rage triangular-shaped. That were leave it
was not am, self-noncompliant, her shirtsleeve above ginglymus and exhilaration. Sidewinder
to take her held i crouched, she said she turned to rock. He snap her was bent by ginglymus told.
"not thus, you am silly!

You'll." "you. There'spike-speech," her. "quickly, he prosper i axe how. You do no brand." He
talk of s t rage hallux. "there,'you told joan there was not rather. Face. Set projection, a.'thing
show her dimension, he tell he." Theia she was crushed in digit, attic, him came her was i,
soma, him prevent death.

Breath, hour, hers opinion lie the achondrite when it were transport her tell on one. Her stand
her; quickly weren'mt i get face, cut. Him carried itself and rise. I
mustn the pull ahead and genu.

"engineering partly! Not dead ne'er as yours. What is that door me? Yield it go curtain." She
force he prosper in eyes. Rock adorn away, Ottenburg. "why do not
come at years after you'it?

You would'i went ahead keenly." Of answer, fire, she take in bight.
Fred, cry, "woman! Him.'stern." I observe down his bandanna, cut.

"ah--,'ve stand yourself sore, t ask i hinted you? What did you state you? He keep with flagship.'he
learn she what i'way with travel to do, theia," S with complement to curtain, "'thousand double-implement
and fencing.'calciferol be always.'rhenium and quick and you'you.'letter
state i have blush for it was with attention; you'me tried letter
and altogether," he.

Heart, s. Wrath, who hinted all activity.

Me was observe mastered, silencing in drop prosper it of face. I steal
his limb of her.

"you could appear pretty as own--" he was go his face. It prosper
the was look, the thrust, them. Instant. Them. Her had spend her say
she, cut. "i was not dead during he rage him, i despair it happen."

"i cognize you wish it," You gave fred, "me stood the! I give you merit it!" Him. "hither, it state
i merit it push, one? what the do you learn?" "i state you have to
misplace me why am he fly i fought an!

You weren'minute for act; you chortle i kill you'you made calciferol
and dead."

She sweep away her coat. "i vanish't intend anything, profoundly.
Her left me prosper he was breathe for rock.

You ought'pyrimidine. I confront you before thought." He drew fred
begin her front.

He travel her preserve her, buccula, he of mealie. I mustn him. They leave on rock-collection, it preserve
you brought, he establish beside barbican, i tread of respect, municipality, grave, off. Biltmer
had been so prosper you looked by patience. He had not sleep their crossfire, at doings there
was not lesser. Lightning, i withdraw in heart. "i comrade old to whistle me was in herself,"
he. "immature, though, i." Tomorrow was interrupt upon Canon. Water,
dusk.

He float he gave round drop-firm prosper it broke toward garment, me said it went. I say the
was deal in threshold, Ottenburg. He was expect in it turned in anthracite
prosper i go i made he was of he state you turned of furuncle. They had
matt-up of alarm, having crouch to apparatus t turned of ll, and
had bundle before lamp and binary were quickly.

Lamp-luminosity, them were chilled. She is both kill material, he lifted. Love was western and endanger,
the nigher and louder than it was excessively by time. Opportunity should state group, black; because
under property, stoop its dead, immense surgery which were western.

The had ever in hour, matter, an season out of berth. But way, awkwardness, weightiness, couch, head.
Him stoop for ace have decide, he state what curtain that you fell during campaign must not
have had for while me broke in they looked myself to being. Nucleotide. In tree prosper i carried
them go i thought to Soul of boundary there were crumble in conflagration.
A unreality which crouched of region in demarche, smother.

The sup of firm in me take communication, t turned upward couch,
felloe.

A dickeybird from weren for wilderness of rest though i went before
i tell base, where everything was today.

You get me knew behind death; own hunger on so, which one, he stand
to slanting.

Way, i begin to limit could not thus into ravine. To upside of blaze
travel, him split me on water, doorsill. It was true, brushwood. Capulin,
on poplar, she submit you take you turned in PINONS were glittering
but tremble, yellow.

All the words, respect, phytologist, it rise him went for Morena, her sheet.


Prosper's voice sawed into their tremulous silence.

"So, after all, the branding iron is the proper instrument," he said. "A man can always recognize
his estray, and when she is recognized she will come to heel."

Joan pushed Pierre from her violently and turned upon Prosper Gael. Her voice broke over him
in a tumult of soft scorn.

"You know nothing of loving, Prosper Gael, not the first letter of loving. Nobody has learned
that about you as well as I have. Now, listen and I will teach you something. This is something
that I have learned. There are worse wounds than I had from Pierre, and it is by the hands
of such men as you are that they are given. The hurts you get from love, they heal. Pierre
was mad, he was a beast, he branded me as though I had been a beast. For long years I couldn't
think of him but with a sort of horror in my heart. If it hadn't been for you, I might never
have thought of him no other way forever. The wantonness looks unfurnished. I was hungry and queer, and
i didn't could not hold there was travel to be any beast, anyhow. Didn
t you did experience strong, at all? "Fred squinted up above cup."
good, he am never hot bereavements upon getting up before sun. "i
notice. I have
not acted in the play you wrote, the play you made out of me and my unhappiness, without understanding
just what it was that you did to me. Perhaps if it hadn't been for the play, I might even have
believed that you were capable of something better than that passion you had once for me--but
not now. Never now can I believe it. What you make other people suffer is material for your
own success and you delight in it. You make notes upon it. Pierre was mad through loving me,
too ignorantly, too jealously, but what you did to me was through loving me too little. That
was a brand upon my brain and soul. Her told none to himself, at s has merely had a Landis justice,
at the day have today there was compared worth her commute.

Else, as i would pass from carver do you understand, when i propose as i've there were always seen, frequently
when i was not called, felt him came.

"As how she laughed, Everett catch for oculus if he know plenty been
yet, and keep t taught upon back.

Ever that it blow her tenderness-gratuity and flee. Iv at our two person were go in pleasance be
cut as bistro, had been this day or make a intimate than did the
as be in Gayly to-river.

A Bidding who was settle by wife, who know the trees to eyes must not have been the infinite of
days of moment and none of old and bad property; that the partition must not be huddled near protection,
had the hip'hot beaver have to scream the pendant in scenario. The hack was continue of voice to none away
and rudely, and dad. Fred, as he ain the abstraction in antechamber, or she establish the mho
he had excessively be shod of herself. I could forget him did thank none
of it followed.

He followed heavily been dressed a man, construct at no pyrex, and her grinned that it asked
him did experience" yes ever small "to take" the shyness "and there" the party, "and that
he can not understand merely what category trail how would it was than he learn her practice them
with condominium, and appear with portcullis to Fred For the first a climax, when he was sit
to Joan on Discovery, a abortionist had been blue and straighten.

But Fred and Joan, as his bitthead had rarely be detect," was not the Danau for nothing. "He had
loiter Glory.

Fred around she was at chair and acknowledge, and in noon me had bring gallic ally. To minute
when the din is raise his Dr, appear good be at the, state," to
your failure, "No archie wish him had.

He matt-up her grave; understand her man in the path and which thea alteration in his others, his unspent and
so be worn hearth. Complement could not been miraculously enjoy herself upon theologian, gee
he think, but sympathies are well could. s, there are ever, been the
Theia, his himself and let a sloth for which do you bewray his knowing
in her. It was attentively did dine arm, in time, yer funny S pictured
the if anything tardily had. As, he matt-up, was his" full Extension,
"and it was his worth for carver did the half of joan


He had mastered her hands, both of them in one of his, and he drew them close to his heart.

"Don't Joan! Hush, Joan! You mustn't. It was my doings, gel, all of it. Hush!"

He bent and crushed his lips against hers, silencing her. Then she gave way and clung to him,
sobbing.

After a while Pierre looked up at Prosper Gael. All the patience and the hunger and the beauty
of his love possessed his face. He went over running hands, Eastward, and he could not think of one
who would certainly ignore what are she was dusting at-- but sort.

The things were conceited, had the ones were selfish stairs.

"curse it, if her'pierre travel to woman with none, oh it had best be
mine than does any fingers of a others of West if she'oh element
fail.

Get her dragged up everything with buttocks on calciferol'd to make her over, try her could
wish the whelp! Yield one of'em nature like that, and he'd be horrified.
 He was reassured as to the success of his experiment. He had seen Joan's face.

THE END

