A HOUSE OF POMEGRANATES

Contents:

The Young King The Birthday of the Infanta The Fisherman and his Soul The Star-child

THE YOUNG KING

[TO MARGARET LADY BROOKE--THE RANEE OF SARAWAK]

It was the night before the day fixed for his coronation, and the young King was sitting alone
in his beautiful chamber.  His courtiers had all taken their leave of him, bowing their heads
to the ground, according to the ceremonious usage of the day, and had retired to the Great
Hall of the Palace, to receive a few last lessons from the Professor of Etiquette; there being
some of them who had still quite natural manners, which in a courtier is, I need hardly say,
a very grave offence.

The lad--for he was only a lad, being but sixteen years of age--was not sorry at their departure,
and had flung himself back with a deep sigh of relief on the soft cushions of his embroidered
couch, lying there, wild-eyed and open-mouthed, like a brown woodland Faun, or some young animal
of the forest newly snared by the hunters.

And, indeed, it was the hunters who had found him, coming upon him almost by chance as, bare-limbed
and pipe in hand, he was following the flock of the poor goatherd who had brought him up, and
whose son he had always fancied himself to be.  The child of the old King's only daughter by
a secret marriage with one much beneath her in station--a stranger, some said, who, by the
wonderful magic of his lute-playing, had made the young Princess love him; while others spoke
of an artist from Rimini, to whom the Princess had shown much, perhaps too much honour, and
who had suddenly disappeared from the city, leaving his work in the Cathedral unfinished--he
had been, when but a week old, stolen away from his mother's side, as she slept, and given
into the charge of a common peasant and his wife, who were without children of their own, and
lived in a remote part of the forest, more than a day's ride from the town.  Grief, or the
plague, as the court physician stated, or, as some suggested, a swift Italian poison administered
in a cup of spiced wine, slew, within an hour of her wakening, the white girl who had given
him birth, and as the trusty messenger who bare the child across his saddle-bow stooped from
his weary horse and knocked at the rude door of the goatherd's hut, the body of the Princess
was being lowered into an open grave that had been dug in a deserted churchyard, beyond the
city gates, a grave where it was said that another body was also lying, that of a young man
of marvellous and foreign beauty, whose hands were tied behind him with a knotted cord, and
whose breast was stabbed with many red wounds.

Such, at least, was the story that men whispered to each other. Certain it was that the old
King, when on his deathbed, whether moved by remorse for his great sin, or merely desiring
that the kingdom should not pass away from his line, had had the lad sent for, and, in the
presence of the Council, had acknowledged him as his heir.

And it seems that from the very first moment of his recognition he had shown signs of that
strange passion for beauty that was destined to have so great an influence over his life. 
Those who accompanied him to the suite of rooms set apart for his service, often spoke of the
cry of pleasure that broke from his lips when he saw the delicate raiment and rich jewels that
had been prepared for him, and of the almost fierce joy with which he flung aside his rough
leathern tunic and coarse sheepskin cloak.  He missed, indeed, at times the fine freedom of
his forest life, and was always apt to chafe at the tedious Court ceremonies that occupied
so much of each day, but the wonderful palace--Joyeuse, as they called it--of which he now
found himself lord, seemed to him to be a new world fresh-fashioned for his delight; and as
soon as he could escape from the council-board or audience-chamber, he would run down the great
staircase, with its lions of gilt bronze and its steps of bright porphyry, and wander from
room to room, and from corridor to corridor, like one who was seeking to find in beauty an
anodyne from pain, a sort of restoration from sickness.

Upon these journeys of discovery, as he would call them--and, indeed, they were to him real
voyages through a marvellous land, he would sometimes be accompanied by the slim, fair-haired
Court pages, with their floating mantles, and gay fluttering ribands; but more often he would
be alone, feeling through a certain quick instinct, which was almost a divination, that the
secrets of art are best learned in secret, and that Beauty, like Wisdom, loves the lonely worshipper.

Many curious stories were related about him at this period.  It was said that a stout Burgo-master,
who had come to deliver a florid oratorical address on behalf of the citizens of the town,
had caught sight of him kneeling in real adoration before a great picture that had just been
brought from Venice, and that seemed to herald the worship of some new gods.  On another occasion
he had been missed for several hours, and after a lengthened search had been discovered in
a little chamber in one of the northern turrets of the palace gazing, as one in a trance, at
a Greek gem carved with the figure of Adonis.  He had been seen, so the tale ran, pressing
his warm lips to the marble brow of an antique statue that had been discovered in the bed of
the river on the occasion of the building of the stone bridge, and was inscribed with the name
of the Bithynian slave of Hadrian.  He had passed a whole night in noting the effect of the
moonlight on a silver image of Endymion.

And as he slept he dreamed a dream, and this was his dream.

He thought that he was standing in a long, low attic, amidst the whir and clatter of many looms.
The meagre daylight peered in through the grated windows, and showed him the gaunt figures
of the weavers bending over their cases.  Pale, sickly-looking children were crouched on the
huge crossbeams.  As the shuttles dashed through the warp they lifted up the heavy battens,
and when the shuttles stopped they let the battens fall and pressed the threads together. 
Their faces were pinched with famine, and their thin hands shook and trembled.  Some haggard
women were seated at a table sewing.  A horrible odour filled the place.  The air was foul
and heavy, and the walls dripped and streamed with damp.

The young King went over to one of the weavers, and stood by him and watched him.

And the weaver looked at him angrily, and said, 'Why art thou watching me?  Art thou a spy
set on us by our master?'

'Who is thy master?' asked the young King.

'Our master!' cried the weaver, bitterly.  'He is a man like myself.  Indeed, there is but
this difference between us--that he wears fine clothes while I go in rags, and that while I
am weak from hunger he suffers not a little from overfeeding.'

'The land is free,' said the young King, 'and thou art no man's slave.'

'In war,' answered the weaver, 'the strong make slaves of the weak, and in peace the rich make
slaves of the poor.  We must work to live, and they give us such mean wages that we die.  We
toil for them all day long, and they heap up gold in their coffers, and our children fade away
before their time, and the faces of those we love become hard and evil.  We tread out the grapes,
and another drinks the wine.  We sow the corn, and our own board is empty.  We have chains,
though no eye beholds them; and are slaves, though men call us free.'

'Is it so with all?' he asked,

'It is so with all,' answered the weaver, 'with the young as well as with the old, with the
women as well as with the men, with the little children as well as with those who are stricken
in years. The merchants grind us down, and we must needs do their bidding. The priest rides
by and tells his beads, and no man has care of us. Through our sunless lanes creeps Poverty
with her hungry eyes, and Sin with his sodden face follows close behind her.  Misery wakes
us in the morning, and Shame sits with us at night.  But what are these things to thee?  Thou
art not one of us.  Thy face is too happy.'  And he turned away scowling, and threw the shuttle
across the loom, and the young King saw that it was threaded with a thread of gold.

And a great terror seized upon him, and he said to the weaver, 'What robe is this that thou
art weaving?'

'It is the robe for the coronation of the young King,' he answered; 'what is that to thee?'

And the young King gave a loud cry and woke, and lo! he was in his own chamber, and through
the window he saw the great honey-coloured moon hanging in the dusky air.

And he fell asleep again and dreamed, and this was his dream.

He thought that he was lying on the deck of a huge galley that was being rowed by a hundred
slaves.  On a carpet by his side the master of the galley was seated.  He was black as ebony,
and his turban was of crimson silk.  Great earrings of silver dragged down the thick lobes
of his ears, and in his hands he had a pair of ivory scales.

The slaves were naked, but for a ragged loin-cloth, and each man was chained to his neighbour.
The hot sun beat brightly upon them, and the negroes ran up and down the gangway and lashed
them with whips of hide.  They stretched out their lean arms and pulled the heavy oars through
the water.  The salt spray flew from the blades.

At last they reached a little bay, and began to take soundings.  A light wind blew from the
shore, and covered the deck and the great lateen sail with a fine red dust.  Three Arabs mounted
on wild asses rode out and threw spears at them.  The master of the galley took a painted bow
in his hand and shot one of them in the throat. He fell heavily into the surf, and his companions
galloped away.  A woman wrapped in a yellow veil followed slowly on a camel, looking back now
and then at the dead body.

As soon as they had cast anchor and hauled down the sail, the negroes went into the hold and
brought up a long rope-ladder, heavily weighted with lead.  The master of the galley threw
it over the side, making the ends fast to two iron stanchions.  Then the negroes seized the
youngest of the slaves and knocked his gyves off, and filled his nostrils and his ears with
wax, and tied a big stone round his waist.  He crept wearily down the ladder, and disappeared
into the sea.  A few bubbles rose where he sank.  Some of the other slaves peered curiously
over the side.  At the prow of the galley sat a shark-charmer, beating monotonously upon a drum.

After some time the diver rose up out of the water, and clung panting to the ladder with a
pearl in his right hand.  The negroes seized it from him, and thrust him back.  The slaves
fell asleep over their oars.

Again and again he came up, and each time that he did so he brought with him a beautiful pearl.
The master of the galley weighed them, and put them into a little bag of green leather.

The young King tried to speak, but his tongue seemed to cleave to the roof of his mouth, and
his lips refused to move.  The negroes chattered to each other, and began to quarrel over a
string of bright beads.  Two cranes flew round and round the vessel.

Then the diver came up for the last time, and the pearl that he brought with him was fairer
than all the pearls of Ormuz, for it was shaped like the full moon, and whiter than the morning
star. But his face was strangely pale, and as he fell upon the deck the blood gushed from his
ears and nostrils.  He quivered for a little, and then he was still.  The negroes shrugged
their shoulders, and threw the body overboard.

