Jane Horton, private secretary and confidential clerk to the millionaire president of the company,
is a very busy as well as a very important individual. The sound of that whistle means release
for the workers in the rooms above, the toilers at the machines where she herself labored so
many years ago; it means release for stenographers, bookkeepers, clerks, in the general office
without; but for her, there yet remain many things to be attended to before she can take advantage
of the half holiday and seek the seclusion of her small suburban home. Important letters must
be written, private letters which cannot be entrusted to the care of an ordinary stenographer.
For some time longer Jane's typewriter clicks unceasingly, and it is nearly dusk before her
task is finished and she is free to lock her office door and leave the building for the night.

She walks rapidly along the darkening streets, sorry that she is so late. She fears Marie will
have been watching for her all the afternoon and worrying perhaps, little Marie, the lame factory
girl whom she has befriended, the girl with eyes so strangely like to Richard's. The resemblance
is startling at times, though Richard's eyes were ever merry, ever dancing with fun and mischief,
while Marie's are grave and sweet and sad. Still, the likeness is there, and probably that
is the reason that Jane has been so anxious to help this girl, scarce more than a child, who
had appealed to her for aid. Marie was by no means the first to seek her assistance in time
of need, for Miss Horton's name stands for all that is kind and gracious and helpful in every
department of the factory. The woman who has succeeded, who has worked her way up, step by
step, to a position of trust and confidence, does not forget the time when she stood, as Marie
does now, with her foot upon the lowest round of the ladder. She never forgets the days when
she worked as they work, and is ever ready to extend a helping hand to those who need it. To
her, then, Marie had come, as had so many others before her, in her hour of trial and distress.
Hastening along the street, Jane smiles as she recalls the day Marie had first tapped upon
her office door and, entering timidly, waited for permission to speak. Jane had been unusually
busy and frowned impatiently at the interruption. The eyes, so like to Richard's, had quelled
her anger and she listened to the girl's story.

It was Jackie was the trouble this time, Jackie who came next to her and who helped in the
support of the family. He'd just broken his leg and was in the hospital and there was no telling
when he would be out again. The twins were sick, too, and there were Nellie and Minnie and
the little baby, and mother not strong enough to work even if she had time to leave the children.
Father? Well, that's just where Miss Horton's help was needed. Father had worked here in the
factory, out in the shipping-room, but they'd discharged him several weeks ago. Yes, father
had been discharged before, many times before, and had been taken back again. This time they
would not let him come back though he had begged and pleaded and promised faithfully never
to touch the drink again. No, no, father did not get drunk very often, only once in a while,
and he was never cross or ugly. He was the kindest and best of fathers only he drank a little
just once in a while. Wouldn't Miss Horton please; please, say a word for father and get them
to take him back? Miss Horton hesitated for a moment, looked into the eyes so like Richard's,
then promised that she would.

She certainly kept her promise and said, not one word, but many, in her efforts to have Marie's
father reinstated in his former position. The man was a stranger to her, she had never seen
him, never even heard his name before, but for Marie's sake she pleaded his cause most earnestly.
The same reply met her every turn:

"Not a better man in the place when he was sober, the very best worker we've got. But just
when we're busiest and need him most, off he goes and gets drunk. Not so very often, oh! no,
but always when he's needed most. We've forgiven him time again, but he's had his last chance.
We'll not take him back."

Jane had even appealed to the president himself, but the appeal was useless. He never interfered
in such matters, left them entirely to the department heads.

The eyes like Richard's filled with tears as Marie was told of the utter failure of all appeals.
The pale face grew paler day by day and the thin figure drooped wearily. Jane had, more than
once, offered pecuniary help, which had been gently but firmly refused. They'd manage somehow,
Marie thought, until Jackie was well again and able to help, though it was hard to feed so
many on just one girl's pay. If they would only take father back, that was all the help she
needed; just for them to take father back. He'd not touched a drop now for six months and vowed
he never would again. He'd taken the pledge and was making the First Fridays. He'd not missed
one since he began five months ago, and oh! if they'd only give him one more chance. That's
what father said himself, that's all he wanted, just one more chance to make good. He meant
it this time, too, Marie was quite sure of that. If they'd only give him that one chance he'd
make the most of it.

Jane Horton had promised to make one more attempt and she is now carrying to Marie the good
news that her efforts have been crowned with success.

Following the directions given her, she passes from the broad, well-lighted streets to smaller,
darker ones. Finally she turns down a narrow, crooked alley and enters a tumble-down house
at the farther end. Bad as was the tenement home of her early childhood, this place is far
worse, and a wave of pity fills Jane's heart as she thinks of that delicate, patient child
growing up in surroundings like these. Marie herself opens the door in response to Jane's knock,
her eyes anxiously asking the question her lips dare not utter.

"Good news, little one, good news," cried Jane joyously, advancing into the room and taking
in at a glance the terrible poverty of the place, the shabbiness of the woman laying the table
for supper, and of the barefooted, ragged children who stare at her in open-mouthed astonishment.
"Where is your father, Marie? Take me to him at once for I bring him what he asked for--one
more chance to make good."

In answer to Marie's call, the door leading into an adjoining room opens and a man steps forth.
The light of the lamp shines full upon his face, and for one breathless moment they face each
other in silence, the woman who has succeeded in life, the man who has failed, and to whom
she brings one last chance of redeeming his failure.

Despite the change of name and the greater changes wrought by the hand of time, she knows him
at once. It is Richard, her brother.

THE ELEVENTH HOUR.

It was an ordinary tenement house of the poorest class, exactly like its neighbors, which lined
both sides of the dingy street. The door was always open, more than half the time hanging by
one hinge, the stairways were dark and crooked, the rooms small and dirty. In a back kitchen
on the topmost floor, a man sat, or rather huddled, in a chair drawn close to the stove. His
eyes were closed and his head drooped wearily against the back of the chair. That last spell
of coughing had been unusually severe and had left him weak and breathless. A plague on the
cough, anyway. Why was it he could not get rid of it? The doctor from the dispensary, the district
nurse, even Maggie, had assured him that with the coming of summer this cold of his would be
better. Summer was here, though you would not think so to-day with this raw east wind and drizzling
rain, and instead of being better he was worse, decidedly worse. Could it be that they were
all wrong and Nancy alone was in the right? Nancy, who, of all that approached him, was the
only one who dared to tell him the truth. The truth? No, it was a lie, a lie; he was not dying,
he was going to be well and strong again as soon as he could shake this cold that had settled
upon him. Nancy was a meddlesome old woman. He had told her so not more than an hour ago and
had sent her off about her business. He had been harsh to her and rude, and after all she was
old and had probably meant to do him a kindness. But, then, he was not sorry; she'd not come
bothering him any more now with her dismal croakings of death and eternity. Death? He defied
it. Eternity? Time enough to think of that.

He opened his eyes and they rested upon the chair which Nancy had occupied one hour ago, which
she had occupied so frequently during the past few months. She had been almost a daily visitor
since he and Maggie had been living in these wretched lodgings in "Nancy's Alley," as it was
called. Evidently, the old woman seemed to think the entire street was her personal property
and that she was responsible for the welfare of all the dwellers thereon. Well, he guessed
he had taught her not to come meddling in his affairs. He hoped he had anyway. Dying? The idea
of such a thing; how dared she tell him he was dying when everyone else fed him with the hope
that he would be better to-morrow, next week, next month. Ah! yes, but to-morrow never came;
or rather, when it did come, it was no longer to-morrow with its promise of renewed health.
It was to-day, with the same disappointment, the same pains, the same racking cough, which
he had endured on so many other to-days that had come and gone before it.

Watching the chair she had so lately occupied, he could see once more the figure of Nancy,
her bright eyes and cheery smile, and hear the nimble tongue which chattered so merrily or
soothed so gently according to the needs of her listener. He could see the little, stooped
figure in its ragged gown, the work-worn hands, the smooth, grey hair. He would miss her visits;
yes, indeed, he would miss them sorely. But what right had she to go talking to him of death?
Still, she was old, she had been kind to him, and he had driven her away in anger. He had called
her a meddlesome busybody who went about poking and prying into other people's affairs and
had ordered her to leave the house and never enter it again.

"Pokin' an' pryin' is it?" she had answered quietly as she made her way towards the door. He
remembered now how difficult it had been for her to walk even on the level floor; what a task
it must have been for her to climb those three long flights of stairs as she had been doing
every day for these months past. "Pokin' an' pryin' is it? Maybe so, maybe so. But Nancy didn't
mean it that way, no, lad, indeed she didn't. Nancy was thinkin' of her own boy lyin' at rest
out yonder with the green grass growin' over him, her own boy that went the same way you're
a goin' now. He'd be about the same age as you, too, an' there's the look on your face that
I seen on his so often, the desperate, despairin' look that it breaks my heart to see. I figured
that if you was my boy, I'd be glad for some one to tell you the truth an' try to bring you
back to God before it's too late. I'd figured, too, that most likely you had a mother somewheres.
She may be still on the earth prayin' for you an' longin' for you, same as I prayed an' longed
for my Danny for so many years. She may be in heaven lookin' down on us now, but wherever she
is she'll be glad to know that I tried to bring you back. It's for her sake that I'm doing
this, for the sake of your poor mother wherever she may be."

His mother! What memories that name conjured up! His mother who had kissed and blessed him
as she closed her eyes forever so many, many years ago. He was still looking at the chair which
Nancy had occupied but he saw it not. He was a boy once more standing by his mother's bedside,
her soft, white hand in his, and was promising her--ah! how many promises he had made holding
that dear hand for the last time, and how readily he had broken those promises every one!

His mind wandered on and he saw himself a boy at school, a youth at college, a grown man filling
a position of trust in a large business concern. In those days, wherever he might turn, there
was one figure standing out before all others, one friend, tried and true. When boys at school
this friend had saved his life; when young men at college, it was to this friend's continued
help he owed any little success he may have attained. After leaving college, his position was
secured through the kindly offices of this same friend whose desk was next his own in the office
in which they were employed.

His gaze still rested on the vacant chair but he saw only a pretty little suburban cottage
with flower garden and smooth green lawn and box-bordered gravel paths. Once upon a time that
cottage was his, and the sweet-faced girl, who trod those paths so daintily, tripping to the
gate to meet him on his return in the evening, was his wife. Upstairs in the nursery their
children slept, two fair little girls with their mother's pretty eyes and dainty ways. All
that had been his, once upon a time.

He still watched that vacant chair but he saw only the day they discovered the loss of that
money which had disappeared so mysteriously from the firm's safe. Suspicion rested upon that
one true friend of his, the friend to whom he owed all he was, all he had. There was not sufficient
evidence to prove that he was the thief, but in the minds of his employers there was no doubt
as to his guilt. The supposed delinquent was dismissed and the cloud of suspicion rested upon
him wherever he went thereafter. Only two people had known the truth, the man now sitting by
the stove in the tenement house kitchen and the friend who had suffered in silence rather than
betray him. They had never met again, and not long after the robbery, the man now sitting by
the stove had heard of his friend's death; the physicians said it was typhoid, but he knew
better. Disappointment, anxiety, heartbreak, were the real causes of his friend's early taking off.

He still gazed at the empty chair but he saw only the series of misfortunes that had befallen
him since the day his friend died. He had launched into business on his own account; the result
was dire disaster. His home was burned in the dead of night; they barely escaped with their
lives. Everything was gone; there was no insurance and ruin and despair confronted them. His
children died suddenly of a malignant fever and the heartbroken mother had followed them to
the grave within a few weeks. He was alone, all alone, and from that day to this had gone steadily
downward until now he found himself in this dirty tenement depending for his daily bread upon
the faded, ragged little woman who was now his wife. Poor Maggie, how she irritated him at
times and yet she had been a good faithful wife to him. But for her, they would not have even
this miserable apology for a home. Yes, even Maggie, with her watery eyes and thin, unkempt
hair, Maggie, who scrubbed floors for a living and could not write so much as her own name
nor read the simplest child's primer; even Maggie was far too good for the worn-out drunkard
and gambler whom she tended so faithfully.

A light tap upon the door, but the man by the stove was too much occupied with those phantoms
of the past to pay heed to it. The door opened quietly and a priest stepped into the room.
The man's gaze shifted from the vacant chair to the black-robed figure standing by the door
and looking at him in puzzled amazement. Phantoms of the past? Yes, indeed, and here was one
more come to torment him and to mock at him. The two watched each other in silence for a moment.
Then, the man crouching in his chair by the fire found voice at last:

"What brings you here, you, of all men? Have you come to taunt me, to upbraid me, to delight
your eyes with the sight of my misery? Have you come to laugh at me in my downfall?"

"Nay, friend," returned the priest gently, "none of those things has brought me to you to-day.
I come only on a mission of mercy, to bring you peace and pardon."

"But how did you find me; who sent you to me?" demanded the man by the fire.

"A little old woman, Nancy by name, told me there was one here sadly in need of the ministrations
of a priest. I did not dream that I should find you."

"You know me then; you remember me?"

"I remember you perfectly and recognized you at once, though you have changed almost beyond
recognition."

"You say you know me, but you do not, you do not. You may know who I am, but you don't know
what I am. You don't know that I'm a thief. Yes, a thief, for it was I who took that money
he was accused of stealing. Do you know that?"

"I know it," answered the priest calmly, "and still I say I bring you peace and pardon."

"Perhaps you know, too, that I am a murderer, for it was grief, heartbreak, which weakened
him so that when disease attacked him he had not sufficient strength to combat the fever. Do
you now that, you who talk to me so easily of peace and pardon?"

"I know that, too, and it is in his name that I offer you forgiveness for your sins."

"You know all then? He told you?"

"He told me in the delirium of fever. He never knew he told; he died thinking he carried the
secret with him to the grave. He was faithful even unto death."

"Faithful even unto death. And you, his brother, come to me now and, knowing all, dare to hold
out to me the hope of forgiveness and of peace?" and the man stared incredulously into the
kind, pitying eyes bent upon him.

"I, his brother, offer you now forgiveness of all your sins and peace which surpasseth all
understanding."

The sick man was seized with a violent fit of coughing and when it had passed, he lay back
in his chair exhausted, with closed eyes and white, pain-drawn face. The priest, wishing to
give him a moment to rest and recover his breath, walked to the window and looked out. In the
field below more than a score of ragged men, women and children were scratching and digging
among piles of ashes, eagerly searching for and gathering up the half-burned cinders; searching,
too, in the forlorn hope of finding something of greater value that might have been thrown
away by accident. The rain beat noisily on the window pane and the priest shivered as he looked
at those scantily-clad little children, not one of whom could boast of shoes and stockings,
and at the white heads and bent figures of old women on whose unprotected shoulders the rain
fell so pitilessly. What mattered the inclemency of the weather to them? Winter would be here
by and by; they must gather in all the fuel possible before it was upon them with its snow
and sleet and icy blasts. In fact, even when winter came, many of these same little children
and old women, even grown men who either could not find other work to do or did not care to
seek it, many of these same people would be seen day after day scratching and digging in this
same field of ashes.

The priest turned from the window with a sigh of pity for the miserable creatures below. His
glance strayed over the untidy kitchen which bore all the marks of the most extreme poverty
and he gave another sigh of pity for the man who had been brought so low in the last days of
his life, the man whom he had known in the time of his success and prosperity.

He approached the chair beside the stove and the tired eyes opened slowly and looked at him.
Unaccustomed tears filled those eyes and the hard voice softened marvelously.

"Nancy was right," that changed voice was saying. "I am dying. Father, you say you bring me
forgiveness in his name, forgiveness for the great wrong I did him. In his name, I will accept
the gift. Father, I will confess my sins to you and beg God's pardon for them."

Two hours later, when poor, tired Maggie, with aching arms and aching back, returned from her
day's work, she was surprised at the gentleness with which he greeted her. Never had he been
so kind before: she was more accustomed to harsh words and even curses than kindness from him.
She set about preparing their evening meal and he actually ate what she put before him without
even once finding fault with the food or with her. She could not understand it and felt vaguely
alarmed.

Again the door opened and a face peered in anxiously. It would look as if the owner of the
face was fully prepared to slam the door and take to her heels at a second's notice. The man
in the chair by the stove smiled faintly and called:

"Come in, Nancy; it's all right."

The little stooped figure sidled into the room but stood with her hand upon the door ready
for flight at any moment. She could not trust her eyes and ears, she knew they must be deceiving
her.

"Come in, Nancy," the man repeated. "Come in and sit down there in the chair you occupied this
afternoon when you dared to tell me the truth that all others feared to tell. You're a brave
little woman, Nancy, and, thanks to you, all is well with me at last. As he said, he brought
me forgiveness for my sins and peace which surpasseth all understanding. Thanks to you, Nancy,
thanks to you."

"Thanks to me is it, lad? Not a bit of it, not a bit of it. Thanks be to God!" ejaculated Nancy
fervently.

"Thanks be to God!" whispered Maggie, as a tear rolled down her worn and faded cheek and splashed
into the pan of water in which she was washing the supper dishes. "Thanks be to God for bringin'
him back even at the eleventh hour!"

THE STORY OF JULIE BENOIT.

Julie leaned against the door of the room from which she had just been summoned. Her black
eyes flashed defiance into the eyes of the woman watching her in sorrowful silence.

"Why you come here?" she cried. "Why you not leave me alone? I not want to see you nor anyone.
You no right to come here; you not my forewoman now. You dismiss me in disgrace a week ago,
you and that superintendent in your factory over there. What you come for; to punish me some more?"

"My poor child," returned the other gently, "you must not hate me so. Believe me, I love you,
Julie, and I've come here as your friend."

"You a friend to me; me, Julie Benoit who is sent away from the factory because I steal all
that money! No, no, I know better than that, you no friend to me, you despise me. All the girls
point their finger at me, for I steal that money. But I give it all back, do I not? And the
superintendent he say it is my first offense and he will not send me to prison. Oh yes! he
is very kind. Julie have give back the money, Julie is forgiven, but she is a thief and cannot
work with honest people. She must go, and without a reference. No one could recommend a thief.
Well, Julie does go, so why you not let her alone?"

"Julie, Julie, listen to me," cried the forewoman almost in despair. "Believe it or not as
you please, I have come here to-day to help you if I can. I have come because there was something
in your face, a look in your eyes, that day you left us that has haunted me ever since. I have
come because I feared you were in trouble and were too proud to tell us so. Julie, for twenty
years I have been forewoman of my department over there in the factory. Many, many girls have
worked with me, new ones coming, old ones going all the time. Some have left for one reason,
some for another, but never before has one gone from me in anger or disgrace. All my girls
have loved me, Julie, and I loved them. Why was it I never could win you, win your trust and
confidence. Was I not kind to you, child? I tried to be for I wanted your love and trust."

The flashing eyes and angry face of the girl softened a little as the woman continued:

"I know you are not a bad girl, Julie. I know that you never before stole anything. I have
been thinking of you all this week and worrying about you, for it must have been some great
trouble which induced you to take that money. Why did you take it, child? Won't you please
tell me?"

"You ask me why I take it? Well, I will tell you. Do you know what is in that room just behind
this very door I lean against? It is my mother. She will never move again, never speak to me
again; she is dead. Yes, she died last night but I not tell no one. If I tell, they will take
her away and bury her I not know where. I have no money to bury her myself. Pretty soon I will
have to tell, then they bury her in a pauper's grave with other people poor like us. I not
know where they put her; I never can go and kneel at her grave and whisper to her that I have
not forgotten.

"You want to know why I steal that money? Well, a week ago poor mother she is so very sick.
They tell me she cannot live many days; but I think if only I have money I can save her yet.
I can have doctors to see her, big doctors who will go to sick people only for very much money.
I can buy her food and medicine and perhaps send her away to some place where the sun will
shine for her, where she can breathe God's pure air. Why even strong people can scarce live
in a place like this where the sunshine never come, where it is cold and damp all the time.
How can the poor little mother hope to grow well again in such a place, without good food,
often without a fire, the air not fit for anyone to breathe. I think of it all the time. I
lie awake at night and think of it, it is before me all day at my work. Money, money, if only
I have a little money, I can save my mother yet. Then the chance come, the money is there before
me. I look at it, I take it. That is all.

"You ask me why I steal that money. I steal it for her, my mother; to save her life. Yes, and
for her, too, the blind grandmother, and for them," and she pointed to a very old woman sitting
close to the stove and holding in her arms a whimpering child of four. At her side crouched
two more children, somewhat older, huddled together in a ragged shawl. They wore neither shoes
nor stockings and the small feet were blue with cold.

"Oh, you poor child," exclaimed the forewoman, her eyes filling with tears. "Why did you not
tell me a week ago instead of taking that money, for one wrong can never right another; why
did you not tell me? We might not have been able to save your mother, but we could have helped
you. Even after you took the money, if you had told me all, something might have been done
for you. I wish you had told me, Julie, I wish you had told me."

The shocked grief of the woman's face and voice had their effect upon the girl, and it was
in a much more gentle tone that she continued:

"You can see for yourself how it is with us now, but we are not always like this. If you care
to listen and will sit down, I tell you all about it.

"No, indeed, we are not always like this. I can remember when father is alive how happy we
all are. He is a mason, good and steady, and he work for us all the time. We live in a pretty
little flat, it is bright and clean and mother keep it so and make everything look nice for
us. She sing and she laugh and she look so pretty in those days. I go to school and Marie also,
dear Marie who died one year ago. Antoine, too, he go to school with Marie and me. Lorraine
there, she too little; she stay at home with mother and with grandmother.

"Well, we are all so happy until one day father is brought home to us. He is dead, killed at
his work by a falling derrick. That same day poor little Baptiste, him there on grandmother's
lap, he come into this cruel world. Mother is sick, so very sick for a long time after. It
is weeks and weeks before she can walk around again. By the time she does, the little money
she had saved is all gone; there is not a cent in the house and the landlord puts us out into
the street.

"I am only twelve at the time but I go to work in a factory--not your factory, but one away
off the other side of the river. I have to walk long, long distance in the cold, dark morning,
and walk back again at night, but I am happy for I earn money to help at home. Mother she go
to work too, in a great steam laundry where she stand all day at a big machine. She very thin
and pale, and so tired at night she can hardly walk home. But she, too, is content; for she
have work to do and work means money to buy food for the little ones and for the blind grandmother.

"We get along pretty well for almost three years. Then, just a year ago, the factory I work
for shuts down. Times are hard, there is no more work for us, we must go. We do go. We try
first one place, then another, to find work. It is the same story everywhere, times are hard
and there is no work for us.

"Then mother gets that dreadful cold. The laundry where she works is always so very hot. She
come out at night into the cold air; her coat is thin for she cannot buy a warm one and she
get a dreadful chill one night as she comes home. She cough all the time after that. It shake
her nearly all to pieces; but she still go to her work till one day she fall beside her machine.
They bring her home and we put her into bed and she never leave it again.

"What to do then we know not. One, two, three days pass; at last there is a day when grandmother
and I eat nothing. We give the last scraps of bread to the children and spend the last two
pennies on milk for mother. There is nothing left for us. We not sleep that night; we sit by
the empty stove and we think all night. Grandmother is praying all the time; she is, oh so
good, that grandmother. She pray and she pray, and she tell me God is kind and good, He will
show us a way. Me, I am not good like that. I say to her God cannot be kind and merciful, or
he would not treat us so. What have we done that He punish us like that? She say to me:

"'Hush, child, hush; you very bad, very wicked. God is good and kind and loving. He not try
us any more than we can bear; He send us help soon if we trust in Him.'

"Next morning is cold, very cold; we have no fire and no food. I have been everywhere to look
for work and find nothing. But I put on my hat to go out and try once more. Grandmother ask
me what I do. I tell her I go again to look for work. She say: 'No, child, you stay here with
your mother to-day; it is my turn now.'

"She is old; she is blind and I fear to have her go out alone, but she is firm and will go.
She take her stick and she go out. She come back later with bread for the children and a little
money to buy coal. I not ask her where she get it; I know. She beg it on the street. Every
day she go out like that, and when she bring back food and money she not say one word and I
not ask her where she get it; I know.

"She keeps us from starving for a few weeks and then, at last, I find work in your factory.
For a time, I am almost happy again, for now grandmother need beg no more; my pay will keep
us in food and fire. Even mother seems better for a little while, and I think perhaps she will
get well and we will all be happy once again. But mother is soon very, very sick, and I see
her dying day by day and can do nothing to help her.

"Then, that day last week, a party of ladies come to visit the factory. The wife of the superintendent
is with them. She very handsome, very rich; she beautifully dressed. She stop near my table
to take off her coat, the room is warm and the fur coat heavy. She lay her purse down on my
table while she remove the garment; one of the ladies call to her and she go away, leaving
the purse behind her on my table.

"Mother is very sick that morning; she not sleep all night, but cough, cough, cough. There
is the purse before me. No one is looking; I pick it up and open it. It is filled with money,
the money that may save my mother's life. That lady will never miss it. I slip the purse inside
my dress and go on with my work. I can hardly keep from screaming with joy I am so happy to
think I have the money which is going to save my mother's life. The ladies go away and I feel
that I am safe; she has forget about her purse. I want to rush away at once, but I must stay
at my work so no one will suspect.

"Presently the superintendent he come in and he talk to you and you look very grave. Then he
say one of the ladies have left her purse on a table in this room. Will the girls be kind enough
to stop work and search for it? He will give five dollars reward to the one who finds it. We
all search but no purse is found, and he go away again. Pretty soon he come back and the lady
with him. She look around for a few moments, then she walk straight over to my table. The superintendent
ask is she sure, quite sure. She say she is perfectly sure. She lay her purse on that table
in order to remove her coat, then forget to take it up again when she go away; and she look
very hard at me.

"The superintendent ask me if I have seen the purse and I say no. I suppose he know by my face
that I am lying for he tell you to take me to the dressing-room and search. Then I know there
is no hope for me; if you search you find the purse, so I take it out and hand it to him. He
talk to me about my wickedness but I not answer him. He discharge me, but I not say one word.
You talk to me, but I not speak to you either, I am too heartbroken, too despairing. My mother
she will die now, she will surely die; and grandmother she will have to go out begging once again.

"I come home and I tell them I am discharged. I not tell them why, for they very good and stealing
is a sin. They be so shocked and sorry. I sit beside my mother, despair in my heart, and I
watch her dying, dying, dying.

"Her pain is all over now; she leave me last night and she never come back again. I watch with
her in there when you come. I watch with her some more when you go; then I must tell that she
is gone, that she is dead, and they come and take her away," and she threw herself on the floor
by the door of her mother's room in a perfect agony of grief.

In a moment the kind-hearted woman was on her knees beside the heartbroken girl, whom she gathered
into her motherly arms, murmuring words of comfort all the while. Gradually the dreadful sobbing
subsided, and after a time the girl was once more standing before that door she guarded so
jealously. Seeing that she was her own calm self again, the forewoman said gently:

"My poor child, again I say that I wish you had told me a week ago. So much suffering would
have been saved. However, this is no time for vain regrets, it is the time for action. I must
leave you at once, Julie, but I will be back, and will, I hope, bring you good news. In the
meantime do you say nothing to anyone about your mother. You will believe that I will help
you? You will do as I say?"

"You very good," replied Julie simply, laying her hand in that of the forewoman; "when you
want me, you find me there," and she pointed to the door behind which her mother's silent form
was resting.

