Many laws of a permanent character have been introduced into appropriation bills, and it is
often difficult to determine whether the particular clause expires with the temporary act of
which it is a part or continues in force. It has also frequently happened that enactments and
provisions of law have been introduced into bills with the title or general subject of which
they have little or no connection or relation. In this mode of legislation so many enactments
have been heaped upon each other, and often with but little consideration, that in many instances
it is difficult to search out and determine what is the law.

The Government of the United States is emphatically a government of written laws. The statutes
should therefore, as far as practicable, not only be made accessible to all, but be expressed
in language so plain and simple as to be understood by all and arranged in such method as to
give perspicuity to every subject. Many of the States have revised their public acts with great
and manifest benefit, and I recommend that provision be made by law for the appointment of
a commission to revise the public statutes of the United States, arranging them in order, supplying
deficiencies, correcting incongruities, simplifying their language, and reporting them to Congress
for its action.

An act of Congress approved 30th September, 1850, contained a provision for the extension of
the Capitol according to such plan as might be approved by the President, and appropriated
$100,000 to be expended under his direction by such architect as he should appoint to execute
the same. On examining the various plans which had been submitted by different architects in
pursuance of an advertisement by a committee of the Senate no one was found to be entirely
satisfactory, and it was therefore deemed advisable to combine and adopt the advantages of several.

The great object to be accomplished was to make such an addition as would afford ample and
convenient halls for the deliberations of the two Houses of Congress, with sufficient accommodations
for spectators and suitable apartments for the committees and officers of the two branches
of the Legislature. It was also desirable not to mar the harmony and beauty of the present
structure, which, as a specimen of architecture, is so universally admired. Keeping these objects
in view, I concluded to make the addition by wings, detached from the present building, yet
connected with it by corridors. This mode of enlargement will leave the present Capitol uninjured
and afford great advantages for ventilation and the admission of light, and will enable the
work to progress without interrupting the deliberations of Congress. To carry this plan into
effect I have appointed an experienced and competent architect. The corner stone was laid on
the 4th day of July last with suitable ceremonies, since which time the work has advanced with
commendable rapidity, and the foundations of both wings are now nearly complete.

I again commend to your favorable regard the interests of the District of Columbia, and deem
it only necessary to remind you that although its inhabitants have no voice in the choice of
Representatives in Congress, they are not the less entitled to a just and liberal consideration
in your legislation. My opinions on this subject were more fully expressed in my last annual
communication.

Other subjects were brought to the attention of Congress in my last annual message, to which
I would respectfully refer. But there was one of more than ordinary interest, to which I again
invite your special attention. I allude to the recommendation for the appointment of a commission
to settle private claims against the United States. Justice to individuals, as well as to the
Government, imperatively demands that some more convenient and expeditious mode than an appeal
to Congress should be adopted.

It is deeply to be regretted that in several instances officers of the Government, in attempting
to execute the law for the return of fugitives from labor, have been openly resisted and their
efforts frustrated and defeated by lawless and violent mobs; that in one case such resistance
resulted in the death of an estimable citizen, and in others serious injury ensued to those
officers and to individuals who were using their endeavors to sustain the laws. Prosecutions
have been instituted against the alleged offenders so far as they could be identified, and
are still pending. I have regarded it as my duty in these cases to give all aid legally in
my power to the enforcement of the laws, and I shall continue to do so wherever and whenever
their execution may be resisted.

The act of Congress for the return of fugitives from labor is one required and demanded by
the express words of the Constitution. The Constitution declares that--No person held to service
or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence
of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered
up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due. This constitutional provision
is equally obligatory upon the legislative, the executive, and judicial departments of the
Government, and upon every citizen of the United States.

Congress, however, must from necessity first act upon the subject by prescribing the proceedings
necessary to ascertain that the person is a fugitive and the means to be used for his restoration
to the claimant. This was done by an act passed during the first term of President Washington,
which was amended by that enacted by the last Congress, and it now remains for the executive
and judicial departments to take care that these laws be faithfully executed. This injunction
of the Constitution is as peremptory and as binding as any other; it stands exactly on the
same foundation as that clause which provides for the return of fugitives from justice, or
that which declares that no bill of attainder or ex post facto law shall be passed, or that
which provides for an equality of taxation according to the census, or the clause declaring
that all duties shall be uniform throughout the United States, or the important provision that
the trial of all crimes shall be by jury. These several articles and clauses of the Constitution,
all resting on the same authority, must stand or fall together. Some objections have been urged
against the details of the act for the return of fugitives from labor, but it is worthy of
remark that the main opposition is aimed against the Constitution itself, and proceeds from
persons and classes of persons many of whom declare their wish to see that Constitution overturned.
They avow their hostility to any law which shall give full and practical effect to this requirement
of the Constitution. Fortunately, the number of these persons is comparatively small, and is
believed to be daily diminishing; but the issue which they present is one which involves the
supremacy and even the existence of the Constitution.

Cases have heretofore arisen in which individuals have denied the binding authority of acts
of Congress, and even States have proposed to nullify such acts upon the ground that the Constitution
was the supreme law of the land, and that those acts of Congress were repugnant to that instrument;
but nullification is now aimed not so much against particular laws as being inconsistent with
the Constitution as against the Constitution itself, and it is not to be disguised that a spirit
exists, and has been actively at work, to rend asunder this Union, which is our cherished inheritance
from our Revolutionary fathers. I was not induced to make this recommendation because I thought
those measures perfect, for no human legislation can be perfect. Wide differences and jarring
opinions can only be reconciled by yielding something on all sides, and this result had been
reached after an angry conflict of many months, in which one part of the country was arrayed
against another, and violent convulsion seemed to be imminent. Looking at the interests of
the whole country, I felt it to be my duty to seize upon this compromise as the best that could
be obtained amid conflicting interests and to insist upon it as a final settlement, to be adhered
to by all who value the peace and welfare of the country. A year has now elapsed since that
recommendation was made. To that recommendation I still adhere, and I congratulate you and
the country upon the general acquiescence in these measures of peace which has been exhibited
in all parts of the Republic. And not only is there this general acquiescence in these measures,
but the spirit of conciliation which has been manifested in regard to them in all parts of
the country has removed doubts and uncertainties in the minds of thousands of good men concerning
the durability of our popular institutions and given renewed assurance that our liberty and
our Union may subsist together for the benefit of this and all succeeding generations.

***

State of the Union Address Millard Fillmore December 6, 1852

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives:

The brief space which has elapsed since the close of your last session has been marked by no
extraordinary political event. The quadrennial election of Chief Magistrate has passed off
with less than the usual excitement. However individuals and parties may have been disappointed
in the result, it is, nevertheless, a subject of national congratulation that the choice has
been effected by the independent suffrages of a free people, undisturbed by those influences
which in other countries have too often affected the purity of popular elections.

Our grateful thanks are due to an all-merciful Providence, not only for staying the pestilence
which in different forms has desolated some of our cities, but for crowning the labors of the
husbandman with an abundant harvest and the nation generally with the blessings of peace and
prosperity.

Within a few weeks the public mind has been deeply affected by the death of Daniel Webster,
filling at his decease the office of Secretary of State. His associates in the executive government
have sincerely sympathized with his family and the public generally on this mournful occasion.
His commanding talents, his great political and professional eminence, his well-tried patriotism,
and his long and faithful services in the most important public trusts have caused his death
to be lamented throughout the country and have earned for him a lasting place in our history.
In the course of the last summer considerable anxiety was caused for a short time by an official
intimation from the Government of Great Britain that orders had been given for the protection
of the fisheries upon the coasts of the British provinces in North America against the alleged
encroachments of the fishing vessels of the United States and France. The shortness of this
notice and the season of the year seemed to make it a matter of urgent importance. It was at
first apprehended that an increased naval force had been ordered to the fishing grounds to
carry into effect the British interpretation of those provisions in the convention of 1818
in reference to the true intent of which the two Governments differ. It was soon discovered
that such was not the design of Great Britain, and satisfactory explanations of the real objects
of the measure have been given both here and in London.

The unadjusted difference, however, between the two Governments as to the interpretation of
the first article of the convention of 1818 is still a matter of importance. American fishing
vessels, within nine or ten years, have been excluded from waters to which they had free access
for twenty-five years after the negotiation of the treaty. In 1845 this exclusion was relaxed
so far as concerns the Bay of Fundy, but the just and liberal intention of the home Government,
in compliance with what we think the true construction of the convention, to open all the other
outer bays to our fishermen was abandoned in consequence of the opposition of the colonies.
Notwithstanding this, the United States have, since the Bay of Fundy was reopened to our fishermen
in 1845, pursued the most liberal course toward the colonial fishing interests. By the revenue
law of 1846 the duties on colonial fish entering our ports were very greatly reduced, and by
the warehousing act it is allowed to be entered in bond without payment of duty. In this way
colonial fish has acquired the monopoly of the export trade in our market and is entering to
some extent into the home consumption. These facts were among those which increased the sensibility
of our fishing interest at the movement in question. These circumstances and the incidents
above alluded to have led me to think the moment favorable for a reconsideration of the entire
subject of the fisheries on the coasts of the British Provinces, with a view to place them
upon a more liberal footing of reciprocal privilege. A willingness to meet us in some arrangement
of this kind is understood to exist on the part of Great Britain, with a desire on her part
to include in one comprehensive settlement as well this subject as the commercial intercourse
between the United States and the British Provinces. I have thought that, whatever arrangements
may be made on these two subjects, it is expedient that they should be embraced in separate
conventions. The illness and death of the late Secretary of State prevented the commencement
of the contemplated negotiation. Pains have been taken to collect the information required
for the details of such an arrangement. The subject is attended with considerable difficulty.
If it is found practicable to come to an agreement mutually acceptable to the two parties,
conventions may be concluded in the course of the present winter. The control of Congress over
all the provisions of such an arrangement affecting the revenue will of course be reserved.

The affairs of Cuba formed a prominent topic in my last annual message. They remain in an uneasy
condition, and a feeling of alarm and irritation on the part of the Cuban authorities appears
to exist. This feeling has interfered with the regular commercial intercourse between the United
States and the island and led to some acts of which we have a fight to complain. But the Captain-General
of Cuba is clothed with no power to treat with foreign governments, nor is he in any degree
under the control of the Spanish minister at Washington. Any communication which he may hold
with an agent of a foreign power is informal and matter of courtesy. Anxious to put an end
to the existing inconveniences (which seemed to rest on a misconception), I directed the newly
appointed minister to Mexico to visit Havana on his way to Vera Cruz. He was respectfully received
by the Captain-General, who conferred with him freely on the recent occurrences, but no permanent
arrangement was effected.

In the meantime the refusal of the Captain-Generalto allow passengers and the mail to be landed
in certain cases, for a reason which does not furnish, in the opinion of this Government, even
a good presumptive ground for such prohibition, has been made the subject of a serious remonstrance
at Madrid, and I have no reason to doubt that due respect will be paid by the Government of
Her Catholic Majesty to the representations which our minister has been instructed to make
on the subject.

It is but justice to the Captain-General to add that his conduct toward the steamers employed
to carry the mails of the United States to Havana has, with the exceptions above alluded to,
been marked with kindness and liberality, and indicates no general purpose of interfering with
the commercial correspondence and intercourse between the island and this country.

Early in the present year official notes were received from the ministers of France and England
inviting the Government of the United States to become a party with Great Britain and France
to a tripartite convention, in virtue of which the three powers should severally and collectively
disclaim now and for the future all intention to obtain possession of the island of Cuba, and
should bind themselves to discountenance all attempts to that effect on the part of any power
or individual whatever. This invitation has been respectfully declined, for reasons which it
would occupy too much space in this communication to state in detail, but which led me to think
that the proposed measure would be of doubtful constitutionality, impolitic, and unavailing.
I have, however, in common with several of my predecessors, directed the ministers of France
and England to be assured that the United States entertain no designs against Cuba, but that,
on the contrary, I should regard its incorporation into the Union at the present time as fraught
with serious peril.

Were this island comparatively destitute of inhabitants or occupied by a kindred race, I should
regard it, if voluntarily ceded by Spain, as a most desirable acquisition. But under existing
circumstances I should look upon its incorporation into our Union as a very hazardous measure.
It would bring into the Confederacy a population of a different national stock, speaking a
different language, and not likely to harmonize with the other members. It would probably affect
in a prejudicial manner the industrial interests of the South, and it might revive those conflicts
of opinion between the different sections of the country which lately shook the Union to its
center, and which have been so happily compromised.

The rejection by the Mexican Congress of the convention which had been concluded between that
Republic and the United States for the protection of a transit way across the Isthmus of Tehuantepec
and of the interests of those citizens of the United States who had become proprietors of the
rights which Mexico had conferred on one of her own citizens in regard to that transit has
thrown a serious obstacle in the way of the attainment of a very desirable national object.
I am still willing to hope that the differences on the subject which exist, or may hereafter
arise, between the Governments will be amicably adjusted. This subject, however, has already
engaged the attention of the Senate of the United States, and requires no further comment in
this communication.

The settlement of the question respecting the port of San Juan de Nicaragua and of the controversy
between the Republics of Costa Rica and Nicaragua in regard to their boundaries was considered
indispensable to the commencement of the ship canal between the two oceans, which was the subject
of the convention between the United States and Great Britain of the 19th of April, 1850. Accordingly,
a proposition for the same purposes, addressed to the two Governments in that quarter and to
the Mosquito Indians, was agreed to in April last by the Secretary of State and the minister
of Her Britannic Majesty. Besides the wish to aid in reconciling the differences of the two
Republics, I engaged in the negotiation from a desire to place the great work of a ship canal
between the two oceans under one jurisdiction and to establish the important port of San Juan
de Nicaragua under the government of a civilized power. The proposition in question was assented
to by Costs Rica and the Mosquito Indians. It has not proved equally acceptable to Nicaragua,
but it is to be hoped that the further negotiations on the subject which are in train will
be carried on in that spirit of conciliation and compromise which ought always to prevail on
such occasions, and that they will lead to a satisfactory result.

I have the satisfaction to inform you that the executive government of Venezuela has acknowledged
some claims of citizens of the United States which have for many years past been urged by our
charge d'affaires at Caracas. It is hoped that the same sense of justice will actuate the Congress
of that Republic in providing the means for their payment.

The recent revolution in Buenos Ayres and the Confederated States having opened the prospect
of an improved state of things in that quarter, the Governments of Great Britain and France
determined to negotiate with the chief of the new confederacy for the free access of their
commerce to the extensive countries watered by the tributaries of the La Plata; and they gave
a friendly notice of this purpose to the United States, that we might, if we thought proper,
pursue the same course. In compliance with this invitation, our minister at Rio Janeiro and
our charge d'affaires at Buenos Ayres have been fully authorized to conclude treaties with
the newly organized confederation or the States composing it. The delays which have taken place
in the formation of the new government have as yet prevented the execution of those instructions,
but there is every reason to hope that these vast countries will be eventually opened to our
commerce.

A treaty of commerce has been concluded between the United States and the Oriental Republic
of Uruguay, which will be laid before the Senate. Should this convention go into operation,
it will open to the commercial enterprise of our citizens a country of great extent and unsurpassed
in natural resources, but from which foreign nations have hitherto been almost wholly excluded.

The correspondence of the late Secretary of State with the Peruvian charge d'affaires relative
to the Lobos Islands was communicated to Congress toward the close of the last session. Since
that time, on further investigation of the subject, the doubts which had been entertained of
the title of Peru to those islands have been removed, and I have deemed it just that the temporary
wrong which had been unintentionally done her from want of information should be repaired by
an unreserved acknowledgment of her sovereignty.

I have the satisfaction to inform you that the course pursued by Peru has been creditable to
the liberality of her Government. Before it was known by her that her title would be acknowledged
at Washington, her minister of foreign affairs had authorized our charge d'affaires at Lima
to announce to the American vessels which had gone to the Lobos for guano that the Peruvian
Government was willing to freight them on its own account. This intention has been carried
into effect by the Peruvian minister here by an arrangement which is believed to be advantageous
to the parties in interest.

Our settlements on the shores of the Pacific have already given a great extension, and in some
respects a new direction, to our commerce in that ocean. A direct and rapidly increasing intercourse
has sprung up with eastern Asia. The waters of the Northern Pacific, even into the Arctic Sea,
have of late years been frequented by our whalemen. The application of steam to the general
purposes of navigation is becoming daily more common, and makes it desirable to obtain fuel
and other necessary supplies at convenient points on the route between Asia and our Pacific
shores. Our unfortunate countrymen who from time to time suffer shipwreck on the coasts of
the eastern seas are entitled to protection. Besides these specific objects, the general prosperity
of our States on the Pacific requires that an attempt should be made to open the opposite regions
of Asia to a mutually beneficial intercourse. It is obvious that this attempt could be made
by no power to so great advantage as by the United States, whose constitutional system excludes
every idea of distant colonial dependencies. I have accordingly been led to order an appropriate
naval force to Japan, under the command of a discreet and intelligent officer of the highest
rank known to our service. He is instructed to endeavor to obtain from the Government of that
country some relaxation of the inhospitable and antisocial system which it has pursued for
about two centuries. He has been directed particularly to remonstrate in the strongest language
against the cruel treatment to which our shipwrecked mariners have often been subjected and
to insist that they shall be treated with humanity. He is instructed, however, at the same
time, to give that Government the amplest assurances that the objects of the United States
are such, and such only, as I have indicated, and that the expedition is friendly and peaceful.
Notwithstanding the jealousy with which the Governments of eastern Asia regard all overtures
from foreigners, I am not without hopes of a beneficial result of the expedition. Should it
be crowned with success, the advantages will not be confined to the United States, but, as
in the case of China, will be equally enjoyed by all the other maritime powers. I have much
satisfaction in stating that in all the steps preparatory to this expedition the Government
of the United States has been materially aided by the good offices of the King of the Netherlands,
the only European power having any commercial relations with Japan.

In passing from this survey of our foreign relations, I invite the attention of Congress to
the condition of that Department of the Government to which this branch of the public business
is intrusted. Our intercourse with foreign powers has of late years greatly increased, both
in consequence of our own growth and the introduction of many new states into the family of
nations. In this way the Department of State has become overburdened. It has by the recent
establishment of the Department of the Interior been relieved of some portion of the domestic
business. If the residue of the business of that kind--such as the distribution of Congressional
documents, the keeping, publishing, and distribution of the laws of the United States, the
execution of the copyright law, the subject of reprieves and pardons, and some other subjects
relating to interior administration--should be transferred from the Department of State, it
would unquestionably be for the benefit of the public service. I would also suggest that the
building appropriated to the State Department is not fireproof; that there is reason to think
there are defects in its construction, and that the archives of the Government in charge of
the Department, with the precious collections of the manuscript papers of Washington, Jefferson,
Hamilton, Madison, and Monroe, are exposed to destruction by fire. A similar remark may be
made of the buildings appropriated to the War and Navy Departments.

The condition of the Treasury is exhibited in the annual report from that Department.

The cash receipts into the Treasury for the fiscal year ending the 30th June last, exclusive
of trust funds, were $49,728,386.89, and the expenditures for the same period, likewise exclusive
of trust funds, were $46,007,896.20, of which $9,455,815.83 was on account of the principal
and interest of the public debt, including the last installment of the indemnity to Mexico
under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, leaving a balance of $14,632,136.37 in the Treasury
on the 1st day of July last. Since this latter period further purchases of the principal of
the public debt have been made to the extent of $2,456,547.49, and the surplus in the Treasury
will continue to be applied to that object whenever the stock can be procured within the limits
as to price authorized by law.

The value of foreign merchandise imported during the last fiscal year was $207,240,101, and
the value of domestic productions exported was $149,861,911, besides $17,204,026 of foreign
merchandise exported, making the aggregate of the entire exports $167,065,937. Exclusive of
the above, there was exported $42,507,285 in specie, and imported from foreign ports $5,262,643.

In my first annual message to Congress I called your attention to what seemed to me some defects
in the present tariff, and recommended such modifications as in my judgment were best adapted
to remedy its evils and promote the prosperity of the country. Nothing has since occurred to
change my views on this important question.

Without repeating the arguments contained in my former message in favor of discriminating protective
duties, I deem it my duty to call your attention to one or two other considerations affecting
this subject. The first is the effect of large importations of foreign goods upon our currency.
Most of the gold of California, as fast as it is coined, finds its way directly to Europe in
payment for goods purchased. In the second place, as our manufacturing establishments are broken
down by competition with foreigners, the capital invested in them is lost, thousands of honest
and industrious citizens are thrown out of employment, and the farmer, to that extent, is deprived
of a home market for the sale of his surplus produce. In the third place, the destruction of
our manufactures leaves the foreigner without competition in our market, and he consequently
raises the price of the article sent here for sale, as is now seen in the increased cost of
iron imported from England. The prosperity and wealth of every nation must depend upon its
productive industry. The farmer is stimulated to exertion by finding a ready market for his
surplus products, and benefited by being able to exchange them without loss of time or expense
of transportation for the manufactures which his comfort or convenience requires. This is always
done to the best advantage where a portion of the community in which he lives is engaged in
other pursuits. But most manufactures require an amount of capital and a practical skill which
can not be commanded unless they be protected for a time from ruinous competition from abroad.
Hence the necessity of laying those duties upon imported goods which the Constitution authorizes
for revenue in such a manner as to protect and encourage the labor of our own citizens. Duties,
however, should not be fixed at a rate so high as to exclude the foreign article, but should
be so graduated as to enable the domestic manufacturer fairly to compete with the foreigner
in our own markets, and by this competition to reduce the price of the manufactured article
to the consumer to the lowest rate at which it can be produced. This policy would place the
mechanic by the side of the farmer, create a mutual interchange of their respective commodities,
and thus stimulate the industry of the whole country and render us independent of foreign nations
for the supplies required by the habits or necessities of the people.

Another question, wholly independent of protection, presents itself, and that is, whether the
duties levied should be upon the value of the article at the place of shipment, or, where it
is practicable, a specific duty, graduated according to quantity, as ascertained by weight
or measure. All our duties are at present ad valorem. A certain percentage is levied on the
price of the goods at the port of shipment in a foreign country. Most commercial nations have
found it indispensable, for the purpose of preventing fraud and perjury, to make the duties
specific whenever the article is of such a uniform value in weight or measure as to justify
such a duty. Legislation should never encourage dishonesty or crime. It is impossible that
the revenue officers at the port where the goods are entered and the duties paid should know
with certainty what they cost in the foreign country. Yet the law requires that they should
levy the duty according to such cost. They are therefore compelled to resort to very unsatisfactory
evidence to ascertain what that cost was. They take the invoice of the importer, attested by
his oath, as the best evidence of which the nature of the case admits. But everyone must see
that the invoice may be fabricated and the oath by which it is supported false, by reason of
which the dishonest importer pays a part only of the duties which are paid by the honest one,
and thus indirectly receives from the Treasury of the United States a reward for his fraud
and perjury. The reports of the Secretary of the Treasury heretofore made on this subject show
conclusively that these frauds have been practiced to a great extent. The tendency is to destroy
that high moral character for which our merchants have long been distinguished, to defraud
the Government of its revenue, to break down the honest importer by a dishonest competition,
and, finally, to transfer the business of importation to foreign and irresponsible agents,
to the great detriment of our own citizens. I therefore again most earnestly recommend the
adoption of specific duties wherever it is practicable, or a home valuation, to prevent these
frauds.

I would also again call your attention to the fact that the present tariff in some cases imposes
a higher duty upon the raw material imported than upon the article manufactured from it, the
consequence of which is that the duty operates to the encouragement of the foreigner and the
discouragement of our own citizens.

For full and detailed information in regard to the general condition of our Indian affairs,
I respectfully refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Interior and the accompanying
documents.

The Senate not having thought proper to ratify the treaties which have been negotiated with
the tribes of Indians in California and Oregon, our relations with them have been left in a
very unsatisfactory condition.

In other parts of our territory particular districts of country have been set apart for the
exclusive occupation of the Indians, and their right to the lands within those limits has been
acknowledged and respected. But in California and Oregon there has been no recognition by the
Government of the exclusive right of the Indians to any part of the country. They are therefore
mere tenants at sufferance, and liable to be driven from place to place at the pleasure of
the whites.

The treaties which have been rejected proposed to remedy this evil by allotting to the different
tribes districts of country suitable to their habits of life and sufficient for their support.
This provision, more than any other, it is believed, led to their rejection; and as no substitute
for it has been adopted by Congress, it has not been deemed advisable to attempt to enter into
new treaties of a permanent character, although no effort has been spared by temporary arrangements
to preserve friendly relations with them.

If it be the desire of Congress to remove them from the country altogether, or to assign to
them particular districts more remote from the settlements of the whites, it will be proper
to set apart by law the territory which they are to occupy and to provide the means necessary
for removing them to it. Justice alike to our own citizens and to the Indians requires the
prompt action of Congress on this subject. The amendments proposed by the Senate to the treaties
which were negotiated with the Sioux Indians of Minnesota have been submitted to the tribes
who were parties to them, and have received their assent. A large tract of valuable territory
has thus been opened for settlement and cultivation, and all danger of collision with these
powerful and warlike bands has been happily removed.

The removal of the remnant of the tribe of Seminole Indians from Florida has long been a cherished
object of the Government, and it is one to which my attention has been steadily directed. Admonished
by past experience of the difficulty and cost of the attempt to remove them by military force,
resort has been had to conciliatory measures. By the invitation of the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, several of the principal chiefs recently visited Washington, and whilst here acknowledged
in writing the obligation of their tribe to remove with the least possible delay. Late advices
from the special agent of the Government represent that they adhere to their promise, and that
a council of their people has been called to make their preliminary arrangements. A general
emigration may therefore be confidently expected at an early day.

The report from the General Land Office shows increased activity in its operations. The survey
of the northern boundary of Iowa has been completed with unexampled dispatch. Within the last
year 9,522,953 acres of public land have been surveyed and 8,032,463 acres brought into market.

Acres In the last fiscal year there were sold 1,553,071 Located with bounty-land warrants 3,201,314
Located with other certificates 115,682 Making a total of 4,870,067

In addition there were--Reported under swamp-land grants 5,219,188 For internal improvements,
railroads, etc 3,025,920 Making an aggregate of 13,115,175 Being an increase of the amount
sold and located under land warrants of 569,220 acres over the previous year. The whole amount
thus sold, located under land warrants, reported under swamp-land grants, and selected for
internal improvements exceeds that of the previous year by 3,342,372 acres; and the sales would
without doubt have been much larger but for the extensive reservations for railroads in Missouri,
Mississippi, and Alabama.

Acres For the quarter ending 30th September, 1852, there were sold 243,255 Located with bounty-land
warrants 1,387,116 Located with other certificates 15,649 Reported under swamp-land grants
2,485,233 Making an aggregate for the quarter of 4,131,253

Much the larger portion of the labor of arranging and classifying the returns of the last census
has been finished, and it will now devolve upon Congress to make the necessary provision for
the publication of the results in such form as shall be deemed best. The apportionment of representation
on the basis of the new census has been made by the Secretary of the Interior in conformity
with the provisions of law relating to that subject, and the recent elections have been made
in accordance with it.

I commend to your favorable regard the suggestion contained in the report of the Secretary
of the Interior that provision be made by law for the publication and distribution, periodically,
of an analytical digest of all the patents which have been or may hereafter be granted for
useful inventions and discoveries, with such descriptions and illustrations as may be necessary
to present an intelligible view of their nature and operation. The cost of such publication
could easily be defrayed out of the patent fund, and I am persuaded that it could be applied
to no object more acceptable to inventors and beneficial to the public at large.

An appropriation of $100,000 having been made at the last session for the purchase of a suitable
site and for the erection, furnishing, and fitting up of an asylum for the insane of the District
of Columbia and of the Army and Navy of the United States, the proper measures have been adopted
to carry this beneficent purpose into effect.

By the latest advices from the Mexican boundary commission it appears that the survey of the
river Gila from its continence with the Colorado to its supposed intersection with the western
line of New Mexico has been completed. The survey of the Rio Grande has also been finished
from the point agreed on by the commissioners as "the point where it strikes the southern boundary
of New Mexico" to a point 135 miles below Eagle Pass, which is about two-thirds of the distance
along the course of the river to its mouth.

The appropriation which was made at the last session of Congress for the continuation of the
survey is subject to the following proviso: Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall
be used or expended until it shall be made satisfactorily to appear to the President of the
United States that the southern boundary of New Mexico is not established by the commissioner
and surveyor of the United States farther north of the town called "Paso" than the same is
laid down in Disturnell's map, which is added to the treaty.

My attention was drawn to this subject by a report from the Department of the Interior, which
reviewed all the facts of the case and submitted for my decision the question whether under
existing circumstances any part of the appropriation could be lawfully used or expended for
the further prosecution of the work. After a careful consideration of the subject I came to
the conclusion that it could not, and so informed the head of that Department. Orders were
immediately issued by him to the commissioner and surveyor to make no further requisitions
on the Department, as they could not be paid, and to discontinue all operations on the southern
line of New Mexico. But as the Department had no exact information as to the amount of provisions
and money which remained unexpended in the hands of the commissioner and surveyor, it was left
discretionary with them to continue the survey down the Rio Grande as far as the means at their
disposal would enable them or at once to disband the commission. A special messenger has since
arrived from the officer in charge of the survey on the river with information that the funds
subject to his control were exhausted and that the officers and others employed in the service
were destitute alike of the means of prosecuting the work and of returning to their homes.

The object of the proviso was doubtless to arrest the survey of the southern and western lines
of New Mexico, in regard to which different opinions have been expressed; for it is hardly
to be supposed that there could be any objection to that part of the line which extends along
the channel of the Rio Grande. But the terms of the law are so broad as to forbid the use of
any part of the money for the prosecution of the work, or even for the payment to the officers
and agents of the arrearages of pay which are justly due to them.

I earnestly invite your prompt attention to this subject, and recommend a modification of the
terms of the proviso, so as to enable the Department to use as much of the appropriation as
will be necessary to discharge the existing obligations of the Government and to complete the
survey of the Rio Grande to its mouth.

It will also be proper to make further provision by law for the fulfillment of our treaty with
Mexico for running and marking the residue of the boundary line between the two countries.

Permit me to invite your particular attention to the interests of the District of Columbia,
which are confided by the Constitution to your peculiar care.

Among the measures which seem to me of the greatest importance to its prosperity are the introduction
of a copious supply of water into the city of Washington and the construction of suitable bridges
across the Potomac to replace those which were destroyed by high water in the early part of
the present year.

At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made to defray the cost of the surveys
necessary for determining the best means of affording an unfailing supply of good and wholesome
water. Some progress has been made in the survey, and as soon as it is completed the result
will be laid before you.

Further appropriations will also be necessary for grading and paving the streets and avenues
and inclosing and embellishing the public grounds within the city of Washington.

I commend all these objects, together with the charitable institutions of the District, to
your favorable regard. Every effort has been made to protect our frontier and that of the adjoining
Mexican States from the incursions of the Indian tribes. Of about 11,000 men of which the Army
is composed, nearly 8,000 are employed in the defense of the newly acquired territory (including
Texas) and of emigrants proceeding thereto. I am gratified to say that these efforts have been
unusually successful. With the exception of some partial outbreaks in California and Oregon
and occasional depredations on a portion of the Rio Grande, owing, it is believed, to the disturbed
state of that border region, the inroads of the Indians have been effectually restrained.

Experience has shown, however, that whenever the two races are brought into contact collisions
will inevitably occur. To prevent these collisions the United States have generally set apart
portions of their territory for the exclusive occupation of the Indian tribes. A difficulty
occurs, however, in the application of this policy to Texas. By the terms of the compact by
which that State was admitted into the Union she retained the ownership of all the vacant lands
within her limits. The government of that State, it is understood, has assigned no portion
of her territory to the Indians, but as fast as her settlements advance lays it off into counties
and proceeds to survey and sell it. This policy manifestly tends not only to alarm and irritate
the Indians, but to compel them to resort to plunder for subsistence. It also deprives this
Government of that influence and control over them without which no durable peace can ever
exist between them and the whites. I trust, therefore, that a due regard for her own interests,
apart from considerations of humanity and justice, will induce that State to assign a small
portion of her vast domain for the provisional occupancy of the small remnants of tribes within
her borders, subject, of course, to her ownership and eventual jurisdiction. If she should
fail to do this, the fulfillment of our treaty stipulations with Mexico and our duty to the
Indians themselves will, it is feared, become a subject of serious embarrassment to the Government.
It is hoped, however, that a timely and just provision by Texas may avert this evil.

No appropriations for fortifications were made at the two last sessions of Congress. The cause
of this omission is probably to be found in a growing belief that the system of fortifications
adopted in 1816, and heretofore acted on, requires revision.

The subject certainly deserves full and careful investigation, but it should not be delayed
longer than can be avoided. In the meantime there are certain works which have been commenced,
some of them nearly completed, designed to protect our principal seaports from Boston to New
Orleans and a few other important points. In regard to the necessity for these works, it is
believed that little difference of opinion exists among military men. I therefore recommend
that the appropriations necessary to prosecute them be made.

I invite your attention to the remarks on this subject and on others connected with his Department
contained in the accompanying report of the Secretary of War.

Measures have been taken to carry into effect the law of the last session making provision
for the improvement of certain rivers and harbors, and it is believed that the arrangements
made for that purpose will combine efficiency with economy. Owing chiefly to the advanced season
when the act was passed, little has yet been done in regard to many of the works beyond making
the necessary preparations. With respect to a few of the improvements, the sums already appropriated
will suffice to complete them; but most of them will require additional appropriations. I trust
that these appropriations will be made, and that this wise and beneficent policy, so auspiciously
resumed, will be continued. Great care should be taken, however, to commence no work which
is not of sufficient importance to the commerce of the country to be viewed as national in
its character. But works which have been commenced should not be discontinued until completed,
as otherwise the sums expended will in most cases be lost.

The report from the Navy Department will inform you of the prosperous condition of the branch
of the public service committed to its charge. It presents to your consideration many topics
and suggestions of which I ask your approval. It exhibits an unusual degree of activity in
the operations of the Department during the past year. The preparations for the Japan expedition,
to which I have already alluded; the arrangements made for the exploration and survey of the
China Seas, the Northern Pacific, and Behrings Straits; the incipient measures taken toward
a reconnoissance of the continent of Africa eastward of Liberia; the preparation for an early
examination of the tributaries of the river La Plata, which a recent decree of the provisional
chief of the Argentine Confederation has opened to navigation--all these enterprises and the
means by which they are proposed to be accomplished have commanded my full approbation, and
I have no doubt will be productive of most useful results.

Two officers of the Navy were heretofore instructed to explore the whole extent of the Amazon
River from the confines of Peru to its mouth. The return of one of them has placed in the possession
of the Government an interesting and valuable account of the character and resources of a country
abounding in the materials of commerce, and which if opened to the industry of the world will
prove an inexhaustible fund of wealth. The report of this exploration will be communicated
to you as soon as it is completed.

Among other subjects offered to your notice by the Secretary of the Navy, I select for special
commendation, in view of its connection with the interests of the Navy, the plan submitted
by him for the establishment of a permanent corps of seamen and the suggestions he has presented
for the reorganization of the Naval Academy.

In reference to the first of these, I take occasion to say that I think it will greatly improve
the efficiency of the service, and that I regard it as still more entitled to favor for the
salutary influence it must exert upon the naval discipline, now greatly disturbed by the increasing
spirit of insubordination resulting from our present system. The plan proposed for the organization
of the seamen furnishes a judicious substitute for the law of September, 1850, abolishing corporal
punishment, and satisfactorily sustains the policy of that act under conditions well adapted
to maintain the authority of command and the order and security of our ships. It is believed
that any change which proposes permanently to dispense with this mode of punishment should
be preceded by a system of enlistment which shall supply the Navy with seamen of the most meritorious
class, whose good deportment and pride of character may preclude all occasion for a resort
to penalties of a harsh or degrading nature. The safety of a ship and her crew is often dependent
upon immediate obedience to a command, and the authority to enforce it must be equally ready.
The arrest of a refractory seaman in such moments not only deprives the ship of indispensable
aid, but imposes a necessity for double service on others, whose fidelity to their duties may
be relied upon in such an emergency. The exposure to this increased and arduous labor since
the passage of the act of 1850 has already had, to a most observable and injurious extent,
the effect of preventing the enlistment of the best seamen in the Navy. The plan now suggested
is designed to promote a condition of service in which this objection will no longer exist.
The details of this plan may be established in great part, if not altogether, by the Executive
under the authority of existing laws, but I have thought it proper, in accordance with the
suggestion of the Secretary of the Navy, to submit it to your approval.

The establishment of a corps of apprentices for the Navy, or boys to be enlisted until they
become of age, and to be employed under such regulations as the Navy Department may devise,
as proposed in the report, I cordially approve and commend to your consideration; and I also
concur in the suggestion that this system for the early training of seamen may be most usefully
ingrafted upon the service of our merchant marine. The other proposition of the report to which
I have referred--the reorganization of the Naval Academy--I recommend to your attention as
a project worthy of your encouragement and support. The valuable services already rendered
by this institution entitle it to the continuance of your fostering care.

Your attention is respectfully called to the report of the Postmaster General for the detailed
operation of his Department during the last fiscal year, from which it will be seen that the
receipts from postages for that time were less by $1,431,696 than for the preceding fiscal
year, being a decrease of about 23 per cent.

This diminution is attributable to the reduction in the rates of postage made by the act of
March 3, 1851, which reduction took effect at the commencement of the last fiscal year.

Although in its operation during the last year the act referred to has not fulfilled the predictions
of its friends by increasing the correspondence of the country in proportion to the reduction
of postage, I should, nevertheless, question the policy of returning to higher rates. Experience
warrants the expectation that as the community becomes accustomed to cheap postage correspondence
will increase. It is believed that from this cause and from the rapid growth of the country
in population and business the receipts of the Department must ultimately exceed its expenses,
and that the country may safely rely upon the continuance of the present cheap rate of postage.
I am not aware, however, that any of these subjects have been finally acted upon by Congress.
Without repeating the reasons for legislation on these subjects which have been assigned in
former messages, I respectfully recommend them again to your favorable consideration.

I think it due to the several Executive Departments of this Government to bear testimony to
the efficiency and integrity with which they are conducted. With all the careful superintendence
which it is possible for the heads of those Departments to exercise, still the due administration
and guardianship of the public money must very much depend on the vigilance, intelligence,
and fidelity of the subordinate officers and clerks, and especially on those intrusted with
the settlement and adjustment of claims and accounts. I am gratified to believe that they have
generally performed their duties faithfully and well. They are appointed to guard the approaches
to the public Treasury, and they occupy positions that expose them to all the temptations and
seductions which the cupidity of peculators and fraudulent claimants can prompt them to employ.
It will be but a wise precaution to protect the Government against that source of mischief
and corruption, as far as it can be done, by the enactment of all proper legal penalties. The
laws in this respect are supposed to be defective, and I therefore deem it my duty to call
your attention to the subject and to recommend that provision be made by law for the punishment
not only of those who shall accept bribes, but also of those who shall either promise, give,
or offer to give to any of those officers or clerks a bribe or reward touching or relating
to any matter of their official action or duty.

It has been the uniform policy of this Government, from its foundation to the present day,
to abstain from all interference in the domestic affairs of other nations. The consequence
has been that while the nations of Europe have been engaged in desolating wars our country
has pursued its peaceful course to unexampled prosperity and happiness. The wars in which we
have been compelled to engage in defense of the rights and honor of the country have been,
fortunately, of short duration. During the terrific contest of nation against nation which
succeeded the French Revolution we were enabled by the wisdom and firmness of President Washington
to maintain our neutrality. While other nations were drawn into this wide-sweeping whirlpool,
we sat quiet and unmoved upon our own shores. While the flower of their numerous armies was
wasted by disease or perished by hundreds of thousands upon the battlefield, the youth of this
favored land were permitted to enjoy the blessings of peace beneath the paternal roof. While
the States of Europe incurred enormous debts, under the burden of which their subjects still
groan, and which must absorb no small part of the product of the honest industry of those countries
for generations to come, the United States have once been enabled to exhibit the proud spectacle
of a nation free from public debt, and if permitted to pursue our prosperous way for a few
years longer in peace we may do the same again.

But it is now said by some that this policy must be changed. Europe is no longer separated
from us by a voyage of months, but steam navigation has brought her within a few days' sail
of our shores. We see more of her movements and take a deeper interest in her controversies.
Although no one proposes that we should join the fraternity of potentates who have for ages
lavished the blood and treasure of their subjects in maintaining "the balance of power," yet
it is said that we ought to interfere between contending sovereigns and their subjects for
the purpose of overthrowing the monarchies of Europe and establishing in their place republican
institutions. It is alleged that we have heretofore pursued a different course from a sense
of our weakness, but that now our conscious strength dictates a change of policy, and that
it is consequently our duty to mingle in these contests and aid those who are struggling for
liberty.

This is a most seductive but dangerous appeal to the generous sympathies of freemen. Enjoying,
as we do, the blessings of a free Government, there is no man who has an American heart that
would not rejoice to see these blessings extended to all other nations. We can not witness
the struggle between the oppressed and his oppressor anywhere without the deepest sympathy
for the former and the most anxious desire for his triumph. Nevertheless, is it prudent or
is it wise to involve ourselves in these foreign wars? Is it indeed true that we have heretofore
refrained from doing so merely from the degrading motive of a conscious weakness? For the honor
of the patriots who have gone before us, I can not admit it. Men of the Revolution, who drew
the sword against the oppressions of the mother country and pledged to Heaven "their lives,
their fortunes, and their sacred honor" to maintain their freedom, could never have been actuated
by so unworthy a motive. They knew no weakness or fear where right or duty pointed the way,
and it is a libel upon their fair fame for us, while we enjoy the blessings for which they
so nobly fought and bled, to insinuate it. The truth is that the course which they pursued
was dictated by a stern sense of international justice, by a statesmanlike prudence and a far-seeing
wisdom, looking not merely to the present necessities but to the permanent safety and interest
of the country. They knew that the world is governed less by sympathy than by reason and force;
that it was not possible for this nation to become a "propagandist" of free principles without
arraying against it the combined powers of Europe, and that the result was more likely to be
the overthrow of republican liberty here than its establishment there. History has been written
in vain for those who can doubt this. France had no sooner established a republican form of
government than she manifested a desire to force its blessings on all the world. Her own historian
informs us that, hearing of some petty acts of tyranny in a neighboring principality, "the
National Convention declared that she would afford succor and fraternity to all nations who
wished to recover their liberty, and she gave it in charge to the executive power to give orders
to the generals of the French armies to aid all citizens who might have been or should be oppressed
in the cause of liberty." Here was the false step which led to her subsequent misfortunes.
She soon found herself involved in war with all the rest of Europe. In less than ten years
her Government was changed from a republic to an empire, and finally, after shedding rivers
of blood, foreign powers restored her exiled dynasty and exhausted Europe sought peace and
repose in the unquestioned ascendency of monarchical principles. Let us learn wisdom from her
example. Let us remember that revolutions do not always establish freedom. Our own free institutions
were not the offspring of our Revolution. They existed before. They were planted in the free
charters of self-government under which the English colonies grew up, and our Revolution only
freed us from the dominion of a foreign power whose government was at variance with those institutions.
But European nations have had no such training for self-government, and every effort to establish
it by bloody revolutions has been, and must without that preparation continue to be, a failure.
Liberty unregulated by law degenerates into anarchy, which soon becomes the most horrid of
all despotisms. Our policy is wisely to govern ourselves, and thereby to set such an example
of national justice, prosperity, and true glory as shall teach to all nations the blessings
of self-government and the unparalleled enterprise and success of a free people.

We live in an age of progress, and ours is emphatically a country of progress. Within the last
half century the number of States in this Union has nearly doubled, the population has almost
quadrupled, and our boundaries have been extended from the Mississippi to the Pacific. Our
territory is checkered over with railroads and furrowed with canals. The inventive talent of
our country is excited to the highest pitch, and the numerous applications for patents for
valuable improvements distinguish this age and this people from all others. The genius of one
American has enabled our commerce to move against wind and tide and that of another has annihilated
distance in the transmission of intelligence. The whole country is full of enterprise. Our
common schools are diffusing intelligence among the people and our industry is fast accumulating
the comforts and luxuries of life. This is in part owing to our peculiar position, to our fertile
soil and comparatively sparse population; but much of it is also owing to the popular institutions
under which we live, to the freedom which every man feels to engage in any useful pursuit according
to his taste or inclination, and to the entire confidence that his person and property will
be protected by the laws. But whatever may be the cause of this unparalleled growth in population,
intelligence, and wealth, one tiring is clear--that the Government must keep pace with the
progress of the people. It must participate in their spirit of enterprise, and while it exacts
obedience to the laws and restrains all unauthorized invasions of the rights of neighboring
states, it should foster and protect home industry and lend its powerful strength to the improvement
of such means of intercommunication as are necessary to promote our internal commerce and strengthen
the ties which bind us together as a people.

It is not strange, however much it may be regretted, that such an exuberance of enterprise
should cause some individuals to mistake change for progress and the invasion of the rights
of others for national prowess and glory. The former are constantly agitating for some change
in the organic law, or urging new and untried theories of human rights. The latter are ever
ready to engage in any wild crusade against a neighboring people, regardless of the justice
of the enterprise and without looking at the fatal consequences to ourselves and to the cause
of popular government. Such expeditions, however, are often stimulated by mercenary individuals,
who expect to share the plunder or profit of the enterprise without exposing themselves to
danger, and are led on by some irresponsible foreigner, who abuses the hospitality of our own
Government by seducing the young and ignorant to join in his scheme of personal ambition or
revenge under the false and delusive pretense of extending the area of freedom. These reprehensible
aggressions but retard the true progress of our nation and tarnish its fair fame. They should
therefore receive the indignant frowns of every good citizen who sincerely loves his country
and takes a pride in its prosperity and honor. Our Constitution, though not perfect, is doubtless
the best that ever was formed. Therefore let every proposition to change it be well weighed
and, if found beneficial, cautiously adopted. Every patriot will rejoice to see its authority
so exerted as to advance the prosperity and honor of the nation, whilst he will watch with
jealousy any attempt to mutilate this charter of our liberties or pervert its powers to acts
of aggression or injustice. Thus shall conservatism and progress blend their harmonious action
in preserving the form and spirit of the Constitution and at the same time carry forward the
great improvements of the country with a rapidity and energy which freemen only can display.

In closing this my last annual communication, permit me, fellow-citizens, to congratulate you
on the prosperous condition of our beloved country. Abroad its relations with all foreign powers
are friendly, its rights are respected, and its high place in the family of nations cheerfully
recognized. At home we enjoy an amount of happiness, public and private, which has probably
never fallen to the lot of any other people. Besides affording to our own citizens a degree
of prosperity of which on so large a scale I know of no other instance, our country is annually
affording a refuge and a home to multitudes, altogether without example, from the Old World.

We owe these blessings, under Heaven, to the happy Constitution and Government which were bequeathed
to us by our fathers, and which it is our sacred duty to transmit in all their integrity to
our children. We must all consider it a great distinction and privilege to have been chosen
by the people to bear a part in the administration of such a Government. Called by an unexpected
dispensation to its highest trust at a season of embarrassment and alarm, I entered upon its
arduous duties with extreme diffidence. I claim only to have discharged them to the best of
an humble ability, with a single eye to the public good, and it is with devout gratitude in
retiring from office that I leave the country in a state of peace and prosperity.

***

State of the Union Address Franklin Pierce December 5, 1853

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives:

The interest with which the people of the Republic anticipate the assembling of Congress and
the fulfillment on that occasion of the duty imposed upon a new President is one of the best
evidences of their capacity to realize the hopes of the founders of a political system at once
complex and symmetrical. While the different branches of the Government are to a certain extent
independent of each other, the duties of all alike have direct reference to the source of power.
Fortunately, under this system no man is so high and none so humble in the scale of public
station as to escape from the scrutiny or to be exempt from the responsibility which all official
functions imply.

Upon the justice and intelligence of the masses, in a government thus organized, is the sole
reliance of the confederacy and the only security for honest and earnest devotion to its interests
against the usurpations and encroachment of power on the one hand and the assaults of personal
ambition on the other.

The interest of which I have spoken is inseparable from an inquiring, self-governing community,
but stimulated, doubtless, at the present time by the unsettled condition of our relations
with several foreign powers, by the new obligations resulting from a sudden extension of the
field of enterprise, by the spirit with which that field has been entered and the amazing energy
with which its resources for meeting the demands of humanity have been developed.

Although disease, assuming at one time the characteristics of a widespread and devastating
pestilence, has left its sad traces upon some portions of our country, we have still the most
abundant cause for reverent thankfulness to God for an accumulation of signal mercies showered
upon us as a nation. It is well that a consciousness of rapid advancement and increasing strength
be habitually associated with an abiding sense of dependence upon Him who holds in His hands
the destiny of men and of nations.

Recognizing the wisdom of the broad principle of absolute religious toleration proclaimed in
our fundamental law, and rejoicing in the benign influence which it has exerted upon our social
and political condition, I should shrink from a clear duty did I fail to express my deepest
conviction that we can place no secure reliance upon any apparent progress if it be not sustained
by national integrity, resting upon the great truths affirmed and illustrated by divine revelation.
In the midst of our sorrow for the afflicted and suffering, it has been consoling to see how
promptly disaster made true neighbors of districts and cities separated widely from each other,
and cheering to watch the strength of that common bond of brotherhood which unites all hearts,
in all parts of this Union, when danger threatens from abroad or calamity impends over us at home.

Our diplomatic relations with foreign powers have undergone no essential change since the adjournment
of the last Congress. With some of them questions of a disturbing character are still pending,
but there are good reasons to believe that these may all be amicably adjusted. For some years
past Great Britain has so construed the first article of the convention of the 20th of April,
1818, in regard to the fisheries on the northeastern coast, as to exclude our citizens from
some of the fishing grounds to which they freely resorted for nearly a quarter of a century
subsequent to the date of that treaty. The United States have never acquiesced in this construction,
but have always claimed for their fishermen all the rights which they had so long enjoyed without
molestation. With a view to remove all difficulties on the subject, to extend the rights of
our fishermen beyond the limits fixed by the convention of 1818, and to regulate trade between
the United States and the British North American Provinces, a negotiation has been opened with
a fair prospect of a favorable result. To protect our fishermen in the enjoyment of their rights
and prevent collision between them and British fishermen, I deemed it expedient to station
a naval force in that quarter during the fishing season.

Embarrassing questions have also arisen between the two Governments in regard to Central America.
Great Britain has proposed to settle them by an amicable arrangement, and our minister at London
is instructed to enter into negotiations on that subject. A commission for adjusting the claims
of our citizens against Great Britain and those of British subjects against the United States,
organized under the convention of the 8th of February last, is now sitting in London for the
transaction of business. It is in many respects desirable that the boundary line between the
United States and the British Provinces in the northwest, as designated in the convention of
the 15th of June, 1846, and especially that part which separates the Territory of Washington
from the British possessions on the north, should be traced and marked. I therefore present
the subject to your notice.

With France our relations continue on the most friendly footing. The extensive commerce between
the United States and that country might, it is conceived, be released from some unnecessary
restrictions to the mutual advantage of both parties. With a view to this object, some progress
has been made in negotiating a treaty of commerce and navigation.

Independently of our valuable trade with Spain, we have important political relations with
her growing out of our neighborhood to the islands of Cuba and Porto Rico. I am happy to announce
that since the last Congress no attempts have been made by unauthorized expeditions within
the United States against either of those colonies. Should any movement be manifested within
our limits, all the means at my command will be vigorously exerted to repress it. Several annoying
occurrences have taken place at Havana, or in the vicinity of the island of Cuba, between our
citizens and the Spanish authorities. Considering the proximity of that island to our shores,
lying, as it does, in the track of trade between some of our principal cities, and the suspicious
vigilance with which foreign intercourse, particularly that with the United States, is there
guarded, a repetition of such occurrences may well be apprehended.

As no diplomatic intercourse is allowed between our consul at Havana and the Captain-General
of Cuba, ready explanations can not be made or prompt redress afforded where injury has resulted.
All complaint on the part of our citizens under the present arrangement must be, in the first
place, presented to this Government and then referred to Spain. Spain again refers it to her
local authorities in Cuba for investigation, and postpones an answer till she has heard from
those authorities. To avoid these irritating and vexatious delays, a proposition has been made
to provide for a direct appeal for redress to the Captain-General by our consul in behalf of
our injured fellow-citizens. Hitherto the Government of Spain has declined to enter into any
such arrangement. This course on her part is deeply regretted, for without some arrangement
of this kind the good understanding between the two countries may be exposed to occasional
interruption. Our minister at Madrid is instructed to renew the proposition and to press it
again upon the consideration of Her Catholic Majesty's Government.

For several years Spain has been calling the attention of this Government to a claim for losses
by some of her subjects in the case of the schooner Amistad. This claim is believed to rest
on the obligations imposed by our existing treaty with that country. Its justice was admitted
in our diplomatic correspondence with the Spanish Government as early as March, 1847, and one
of my predecessors, in his annual message of that year, recommended that provision should be
made for its payment. In January last it was again submitted to Congress by the Executive.
It has received a favorable consideration by committees of both branches, but as yet there
has been no final action upon it. I conceive that good faith requires its prompt adjustment,
and I present it to your early and favorable consideration.

Martin Koszta, a Hungarian by birth, came to this country in 1850, and declared his intention
in due form of law to become a citizen of the United States. After remaining here nearly two
years he visited Turkey. While at Smyrna he was forcibly seized, taken on board an Austrian
brig of war then lying in the harbor of that place, and there confined in irons, with the avowed
design to take him into the dominions of Austria. Our consul at Smyrna and legation at Constantinople
interposed for his release, but their efforts were ineffectual. While thus in prison Commander
Ingraham, with the United States ship of war St. Louis, arrived at Smyrna, and after inquiring
into the circumstances of the case came to the conclusion that Koszta was entitled to the protection
of this Government, and took energetic and prompt measures for his release. Under an arrangement
between the agents of the United States and of Austria, he was transferred to the custody of
the French consul-general at Smyrna, there to remain until he should be disposed of by the
mutual agreement of the consuls of the respective Governments at that place. Pursuant to that
agreement, he has been released, and is now in the United States. The Emperor of Austria has
made the conduct of our officers who took part in this transaction a subject of grave complaint.
Regarding Koszta as still his subject, and claiming a right to seize him within the limits
of the Turkish Empire, he has demanded of this Government its consent to the surrender of the
prisoner, a disavowal of the acts of its agents, and satisfaction for the alleged outrage.
After a careful consideration of the case I came to the conclusion that Koszta was seized without
legal authority at Smyrna; that he was wrongfully detained on board of the Austrian brig of
war; that at the time of his seizure he was clothed with the nationality of the United States,
and that the acts of our officers, under the circumstances of the case, were justifiable, and
their conduct has been fully approved by me, and a compliance with the several demands of the
Emperor of Austria has been declined.

For a more full account of this transaction and my views in regard to it I refer to the correspondence
between the charge d'affaires of Austria and the Secretary of State, which is herewith transmitted.
The principles and policy therein maintained on the part of the United States will, whenever
a proper occasion occurs, be applied and enforced.

The condition of China at this time renders it probable that some important changes will occur
in that vast Empire which will lead to a more unrestricted intercourse with it. The commissioner
to that country who has been recently appointed is instructed to avail himself of all occasions
to open and extend our commercial relations, not only with the Empire of China, but with other
Asiatic nations.

In 1852 an expedition was sent to Japan, under the command of Commodore Perry, for the purpose
of opening commercial intercourse with that Empire. Intelligence has been received of his arrival
there and of his having made known to the Emperor of Japan the object of his visit. But it
is not yet ascertained how far the Emperor will be disposed to abandon his restrictive policy
and open that populous country to a commercial intercourse with the United States.

It has been my earnest desire to maintain friendly intercourse with the Governments upon this
continent and to aid them in preserving good understanding among themselves. With Mexico a
dispute has arisen as to the true boundary line between our Territory of New Mexico and the
Mexican State of Chihuahua. A former commissioner of the United States, employed in running
that line pursuant to the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, made a serious mistake in determining
the initial point on the Rio Grande; but inasmuch as his decision was clearly a departure from
the directions for tracing the boundary contained in that treaty, and was not concurred in
by the surveyor appointed on the part of the United States, whose concurrence was necessary
to give validity to that decision, this Government is not concluded thereby; but that of Mexico
takes a different view of the subject.

There are also other questions of considerable magnitude pending between the two Republics.
Our minister in Mexico has ample instructions to adjust them. Negotiations have been opened,
but sufficient progress has not been made therein to enable me to speak of the probable result.
Impressed with the importance of maintaining amicable relations with that Republic and of yielding
with liberality to all her just claims, it is reasonable to expect that an arrangement mutually
satisfactory to both countries may be concluded and a lasting friendship between them confirmed
and perpetuated.

Congress having provided for a full mission to the States of Central America, a minister was
sent thither in July last. As yet he has had time to visit only one of these States (Nicaragua),
where he was received in the most friendly manner. It is hoped that his presence and good offices
will have a benign effect in composing the dissensions which prevail among them, and in establishing
still more intimate and friendly relations between them respectively and between each of them
and the United States.

Considering the vast regions of this continent and the number of states which would be made
accessible by the free navigation of the river Amazon, particular attention has been given
to this subject. Brazil, through whose territories it passes into the ocean, has hitherto persisted
in a policy so restricted in regard to the use of this river as to obstruct and nearly exclude
foreign commercial intercourse with the States which lie upon its tributaries and upper branches.
Our minister to that country is instructed to obtain a relaxation of that policy and to use
his efforts to induce the Brazilian Government to open to common use, under proper safeguards,
this great natural highway for international trade. Several of the South American States are
deeply interested in this attempt to secure the free navigation of the Amazon, and it is reasonable
to expect their cooperation in the measure. As the advantages of free commercial intercourse
among nations are better understood, more liberal views are generally entertained as to the
common rights of all to the free use of those means which nature has provided for international
communication. To these more liberal and enlightened views it is hoped that Brazil will conform
her policy and remove all unnecessary restrictions upon the free use of a river which traverses
so many states and so large a part of the continent. I am happy to inform you that the Republic
of Paraguay and the Argentine Confederation have yielded to the liberal policy still resisted
by Brazil in regard to the navigable rivers within their respective territories. Treaties embracing
this subject, among others, have been negotiated with these Governments, which will be submitted
to the Senate at the present session.

A new branch of commerce, important to the agricultural interests of the United States, has
within a few years past been opened with Peru. Notwithstanding the inexhaustible deposits of
guano upon the islands of that country, considerable difficulties are experienced in obtaining
the requisite supply. Measures have been taken to remove these difficulties and to secure a
more abundant importation of the article. Unfortunately, there has been a serious collision
between our citizens who have resorted to the Chincha Islands for it and the Peruvian authorities
stationed there. Redress for the outrages committed by the latter was promptly demanded by
our minister at Lima. This subject is now under consideration, and there is reason to believe
that Peru is disposed to offer adequate indemnity to the aggrieved parties. We are thus not
only at peace with all foreign countries, but, in regard to political affairs, are exempt from
any cause of serious disquietude in our domestic relations.

The controversies which have agitated the country heretofore are passing away with the causes
which produced them and the passions which they had awakened; or, if any trace of them remains,
it may be reasonably hoped that it will only be perceived in the zealous rivalry of all good
citizens to testify their respect for the rights of the States, their devotion to the Union,
and their common determination that each one of the States, its institutions, its welfare,
and its domestic peace, shall be held alike secure under the sacred aegis of the Constitution.
This new league of amity and of mutual confidence and support into which the people of the
Republic have entered happily affords inducement and opportunity for the adoption of a more
comprehensive and unembarrassed line of policy and action as to the great material interests
of the country, whether regarded in themselves or in connection with the powers of the civilized
world.

The United States have continued gradually and steadily to expand through acquisitions of territory,
which, how much soever some of them may have been questioned, are now universally seen and
admitted to have been wise in policy, just in character, and a great element in the advancement
of our country, and with it of the human race, in freedom, in prosperity, and in happiness.
The thirteen States have grown to be thirty-one, with relations reaching to Europe on the one
side and on the other to the distant realms of Asia.

I am deeply sensible of the immense responsibility which the present magnitude of the Republic
and the diversity and multiplicity of its interests devolves upon me, the alleviation of which
so far as relates to the immediate conduct of the public business, is, first, in my reliance
on the wisdom and patriotism of the two Houses of Congress, and, secondly, in the directions
afforded me by the principles of public polity affirmed by our fathers of the epoch of 1798,
sanctioned by long experience, and consecrated anew by the overwhelming voice of the people
of the United States.

Recurring to these principles, which constitute the organic basis of union, we perceive that
vast as are the functions and the duties of the Federal Government, vested in or intrusted
to its three great departments--the legislative, executive, and judicial--yet the substantive
power, the popular force, and the large capacities for social and material development exist
in the respective States, which, all being of themselves well-constituted republics, as they
preceded so they alone are capable of maintaining and perpetuating the American Union. The
Federal Government has its appropriate line of action in the specific and limited powers conferred
on it by the Constitution, chiefly as to those things in which the States have a common interest
in their relations to one another and to foreign governments, while the great mass of interests
which belong to cultivated men--the ordinary business of life, the springs of industry, all
the diversified personal and domestic affairs of society--rest securely upon the general reserved
powers of the people of the several States. There is the effective democracy of the nation,
and there the vital essence of its being and its greatness.

Of the practical consequences which flow from the nature of the Federal Government, the primary
one is the duty of administering with integrity and fidelity the high trust reposed in it by
the Constitution, especially in the application of the public funds as drawn by taxation from
the people and appropriated to specific objects by Congress.

Happily, I have no occasion to suggest any radical changes in the financial policy of the Government.
Ours is almost, if not absolutely, the solitary power of Christendom having a surplus revenue
drawn immediately from imposts on commerce, and therefore measured by the spontaneous enterprise
and national prosperity of the country, with such indirect relation to agriculture, manufactures,
and the products of the earth and sea as to violate no constitutional doctrine and yet vigorously
promote the general welfare. Neither as to the sources of the public treasure nor as to the
manner of keeping and managing it does any grave controversy now prevail, there being a general
acquiescence in the wisdom of the present system.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury will exhibit in detail the state of the public
finances and the condition of the various branches of the public service administered by that
Department of the Government.

The revenue of the country, levied almost insensibly to the taxpayer, goes on from year to
year, increasing beyond either the interests or the prospective wants of the Government.

At the close of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1852, there remained in the Treasury a balance
of $14,632,136. The public revenue for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1853, amounted to $58,931,865
from customs and to $2,405,708 from public lands and other miscellaneous sources, amounting
together to $61,337,574, while the public expenditures for the same period, exclusive of payments
on account of the public debt, amounted to $43,554,262, leaving a balance of $32,425,447 of
receipts above expenditures.

This fact of increasing surplus in the Treasury became the subject of anxious consideration
at a very early period of my Administration, and the path of duty in regard to it seemed to
me obvious and clear, namely: First, to apply the surplus revenue to the discharge of the public
debt so far as it could judiciously be done, and, secondly, to devise means for the gradual
reduction of the revenue to the standard of the public exigencies.

Of these objects the first has been in the course of accomplishment in a manner and to a degree
highly satisfactory. The amount of the public debt of all classes was on the 4th of March,
1853, $69,190,037, payments on account of which have been made since that period to the amount
of $12,703,329, leaving unpaid and in continuous course of liquidation the sum of $56,486,708.
These payments, although made at the market price of the respective classes of stocks, have
been effected readily and to the general advantage of the Treasury, and have at the same time
proved of signal utility in the relief they have incidentally afforded to the money market
and to the industrial and commercial pursuits of the country.

The second of the above-mentioned objects, that of the reduction of the tariff, is of great
importance, and the plan suggested by the Secretary of the Treasury, which is to reduce the
duties on certain articles and to add to the free list many articles now taxed, and especially
such as enter into manufactures and are not largely, or at all, produced in the country, is
commended to your candid and careful consideration.

You will find in the report of the Secretary of the Treasury, also, abundant proof of the entire
adequacy of the present fiscal system to meet all the requirements of the public service, and
that, while properly administered, it operates to the advantage of the community in ordinary
business relations.

I respectfully ask your attention to sundry suggestions of improvements in the settlement of
accounts, especially as regards the large sums of outstanding arrears due to the Government,
and of other reforms in the administrative action of his Department which are indicated by
the Secretary; as also to the progress made in the construction of marine hospitals, custom-houses,
and of a new mint in California and assay office in the city of New York, heretofore provided
for by Congress, and also to the eminently successful progress of the Coast Survey and of the
Light House Board.

Among the objects meriting your attention will be important recommendations from the Secretaries
of War and Navy. I am fully satisfied that the Navy of the United States is not in a condition
of strength and efficiency commensurate with the magnitude of our commercial and other interests,
and commend to your especial attention the suggestions on this subject made by the Secretary
of the Navy. I respectfully submit that the Army, which under our system must always be regarded
with the highest interest as a nucleus around which the volunteer forces of the nation gather
in the hour of danger, requires augmentation, or modification, to adapt it to the present extended
limits and frontier relations of the country and the condition of the Indian tribes in the
interior of the continent, the necessity of which will appear in the communications of the
Secretaries of War and the Interior.

In the administration of the Post-Office Department for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1853,
the gross expenditure was $7,982,756, and the gross receipts during the same period $5,942,734,
showing that the current revenue failed to meet the current expenses of the Department by the
sum of $2,042,032. The causes which, under the present postal system and laws, led inevitably
to this result are fully explained by the report of the Postmaster-General, one great cause
being the enormous rates the Department has been compelled to pay for mail service rendered
by railroad companies.

The exhibit in the report of the Postmaster-General of the income and expenditures by mail
steamers will be found peculiarly interesting and of a character to demand the immediate action
of Congress.

Numerous and flagrant frauds upon the Pension Bureau have been brought to light within the
last year, and in some instances merited punishments inflicted; but, unfortunately, in others
guilty parties have escaped, not through the want of sufficient evidence to warrant a conviction,
but in consequence of the provisions of limitation in the existing laws.

From the nature of these claims, the remoteness of the tribunals to pass upon them, and the
mode in which the proof is of necessity furnished, temptations to crime have been greatly stimulated
by the obvious difficulties of detection. The defects in the law upon this subject are so apparent
and so fatal to the ends of justice that your early action relating to it is most desirable.

During the last fiscal year 9,819,411 acres of the public lands have been surveyed and 10,363,891
acres brought into market. Within the same period the sales by public purchase and private
entry amounted to 1,083,495 acres; located under military bountys and warrants, 6,142,360 acres;
located under other certificates, 9,427 acres; ceded to the States as swamp lands, 16,684,253
acres; selected for railroad and other objects under acts of Congress, 1,427,457 acres: total
amount of lands disposed of within the fiscal year, 25,346,992 acres, which is an increase
in quantity sold and located under land warrants and grants of 12,231, 818 acres over the fiscal
year immediately preceding. The quantity of land sold during the second and third quarters
of 1852 was 334,451 acres; the amount received therefor was $623,687. The quantity sold the
second and third quarters of the year 1853 was 1,609,919 acres, and the amount received therefor
$2,226,876.

The whole number of land warrants issued under existing laws prior to the 30th of September
last was 266,042, of which there were outstanding at that date 66,947. The quantity of land
required to satisfy these outstanding warrants is 4,778,120 acres. Warrants have been issued
to 30th of September last under the act of 11th February, 1847, calling for 12,879,280 acres,
under acts of September 28, 1850, and March 22, 1852, calling for 12,505,360 acres, making
a total of 25,384,640 acres.

It is believed that experience has verified the wisdom and justice of the present system with
regard to the public domain in most essential particulars.

You will perceive from the report of the Secretary of the Interior that opinions which have
often been expressed in relation to the operation of the land system as not being a source
of revenue to the Federal Treasury were erroneous. The net profits from the sale of the public
lands to June 30, 1853, amounted to the sum of $53,289,465.

I recommend the extension of the land system over the Territories of Utah and New Mexico, with
such modifications as their peculiarities may require.

Regarding our public domain as chiefly valuable to provide homes for the industrious and enterprising,
I am not prepared to recommend any essential change in the land system, except by modifications
in favor of the actual settler and an extension of the preemption principle in certain cases,
for reasons and on grounds which will be fully developed in the reports to be laid before you.

Congress, representing the proprietors of the territorial domain and charged especially with
power to dispose of territory belonging to the United States, has for a long course of years,
beginning with the Administration of Mr. Jefferson, exercised the power to construct roads
within the Territories, and there are so many and obvious distinctions between this exercise
of power and that of making roads within the States that the former has never been considered
subject to such objections as apply to the latter; and such may now be considered the settled
construction of the power of the Federal Government upon the subject.

Numerous applications have been and no doubt will continue to be made for grants of land in
aid of the construction of railways. It is not believed to be within the intent and meaning
of the Constitution that the power to dispose of the public domain should be used otherwise
than might be expected from a prudent proprietor and therefore that grants of land to aid in
the construction of roads should be restricted to cases where it would be for the interest
of a proprietor under like circumstances thus to contribute to the construction of these works.
For the practical operation of such grants thus far in advancing the interests of the States
in which the works are located, and at the same time the substantial interests of all the other
States, by enhancing the value and promoting the rapid sale of the public domain, I refer you
to the report of the Secretary of the Interior. A careful examination, however, will show that
this experience is the result of a just discrimination and will be far from affording encouragement
to a reckless or indiscriminate extension of the principle.

I commend to your favorable consideration the men of genius of our country who by their inventions
and discoveries in science and arts have contributed largely to the improvements of the age
without, in many instances, securing for themselves anything like an adequate reward. For many
interesting details upon this subject I refer you to the appropriate reports, and especially
urge upon your early attention the apparently slight, but really important, modifications of
existing laws therein suggested.

The liberal spirit which has so long marked the action of Congress in relation to the District
of Columbia will, I have no doubt, continue to be manifested. Under the acts of Congress of
August 31, 1852, and of March 3, 1853, designed to secure for the cities of Washington and
Georgetown an abundant supply of good and wholesome water, it became my duty to examine the
report and plans of the engineer who had charge of the surveys under the act first named. The
best, if not the only, plan calculated to secure permanently the object sought was that which
contemplates taking the water from the Great Falls of the Potomac, and consequently I gave
to it my approval.

For the progress and present condition of this important work and for its demands so far as
appropriations are concerned I refer you to the report of the Secretary of War.

The present judicial system of the United States has now been in operation for so long a period
of time and has in its general theory and much of its details become so familiar to the country
and acquired so entirely the public confidence that if modified in any respect it should only
be in those particulars which may adapt it to the increased extent, population, and legal business
of the United States. In this relation the organization of the courts is now confessedly inadequate
to the duties to be performed by them, in consequence of which the States of Florida, Wisconsin,
Iowa, Texas, and California, and districts of other States, are in effect excluded from the
full benefits of the general system by the functions of the circuit court being devolved on
the district judges in all those States or parts of States. The spirit of the Constitution
and a due regard to justice require that all the States of the Union should be placed on the
same footing in regard to the judicial tribunals. I therefore commend to your consideration
this important subject, which in my judgment demands the speedy action of Congress. I will
present to you, if deemed desirable, a plan which I am prepared to recommend for the enlargement
and modification of the present judicial system.

The act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Institution provided that the President of
the United States and other persons therein designated should constitute an "establishment"
by that name, and that the members should hold stated and special meetings for the supervision
of the affairs of the Institution. The organization not having taken place, it seemed to me
proper that it should be effected without delay. This has been done; and an occasion was thereby
presented for inspecting the condition of the Institution and appreciating its successful progress
thus far and its high promise of great and general usefulness.

I have omitted to ask your favorable consideration for the estimates of works of a local character
in twenty-seven of the thirty-one States, amounting to $1,754,500, because, independently of
the grounds which have so often been urged against the application of the Federal revenue for
works of this character, inequality, with consequent injustice, is inherent in the nature of
the proposition, and because the plan has proved entirely inadequate to the accomplishment
of the objects sought.

The subject of internal improvements, claiming alike the interest and good will of all, has,
nevertheless, been the basis of much political discussion and has stood as a deep-graven line
of division between statesmen of eminent ability and patriotism. The rule of strict construction
of all powers delegated by the States to the General Government has arrayed itself from time
to time against the rapid progress of expenditures from the National Treasury on works of a
local character within the States. Memorable as an epoch in the history of this subject is
the message of President Jackson of the 27th of May, 1830, which met the system of internal
improvements in its comparative infancy; but so rapid had been its growth that the projected
appropriations in that year for works of this character had risen to the alarming amount of
more than $100,000,000

In that message the President admitted the difficulty of bringing back the operations of the
Government to the construction of the Constitution set up in 1798, and marked it as an admonitory
proof of the necessity of guarding that instrument with sleepless vigilance against the authority
of precedents which had not the sanction of its most plainly defined powers.

Our Government exists under a written compact between sovereign States, uniting for specific
objects and with specific grants to their general agent. If, then, in the progress of its administration
there have been departures from the terms and intent of the compact, it is and will ever be
proper to refer back to the fixed standard which our fathers left us and to make a stern effort
to conform our action to it. It would seem that the fact of a principle having been resisted
from the first by many of the wisest and most patriotic men of the Republic, and a policy having
provoked constant strife without arriving at a conclusion which can be regarded as satisfactory
to its most earnest advocates, should suggest the inquiry whether there may not be a plan likely
to be crowned by happier results. Without perceiving any sound distinction or intending to
assert any principle as opposed to improvements needed for the protection of internal commerce
which does not equally apply to improvements upon the seaboard for the protection of foreign
commerce, I submit to you whether it may not be safely anticipated that if the policy were
once settled against appropriations by the General Government for local improvements for the
benefit of commerce, localities requiring expenditures would not, by modes and means clearly
legitimate and proper, raise the fund necessary for such constructions as the safety or other
interests of their commerce might require.

If that can be regarded as a system which in the experience of mere than thirty years has at
no time so commanded the public judgment as to give it the character of a settled policy; which,
though it has produced some works of conceded importance, has been attended with an expenditure
quite disproportionate to their value and has resulted in squandering large sums upon objects
which have answered no valuable purpose, the interests of all the States require it to be abandoned
unless hopes may be indulged for the future which find no warrant in the past.

With an anxious desire for the completion of the works which are regarded by all good citizens
with sincere interest, I have deemed it my duty to ask at your hands a deliberate reconsideration
of the question, with a hope that, animated by a desire to promote the permanent and substantial
interests of the country, your wisdom may prove equal to the task of devising and maturing
a plan which, applied to this subject, may promise something better than constant strife, the
suspension of the powers of local enterprise, the exciting of vain hopes, and the disappointment
of cherished expectations.

In expending the appropriations made by the last Congress several cases have arisen in relation
to works for the improvement of harbors which involve questions as to the right of soil and
jurisdiction, and have threatened conflict between the authority of the State and General Governments.
The right to construct a breakwater, jetty, or dam would seem necessarily to carry with it
the power to protect and preserve such constructions. This can only be effectually done by
having jurisdiction over the soil. But no clause of the Constitution is found on which to rest
the claim of the United States to exercise jurisdiction over the soil of a State except that
conferred by the eighth section of the first article of the Constitution. It is, then, submitted
whether, in all cases where constructions are to be erected by the General Government, the
right of soil should not first be obtained and legislative provision be made to cover all such
cases. For the progress made in the construction of roads within the Territories, as provided
for in the appropriations of the last Congress, I refer you to the report of the Secretary of War.

There is one subject of a domestic nature which, from its intrinsic importance and the many
interesting questions of future policy which it involves, can not fail to receive your early
attention. I allude to the means of communication by which different parts of the wide expanse
of our country are to be placed in closer connection for purposes both of defense and commercial
intercourse, and more especially such as appertain to the communication of those great divisions
of the Union which lie on the opposite sides of the Rocky Mountains. That the Government has
not been unmindful of this heretofore is apparent from the aid it has afforded through appropriations
for mail facilities and other purposes. But the general subject will now present itself under
aspects more imposing and more purely national by reason of the surveys ordered by Congress,
and now in the process of completion, for communication by railway across the continent, and
wholly within the limits of the United States. As incidental to and indispensable for the exercise
of this power, it must sometimes be necessary to construct military roads and protect harbors
of refuge. To appropriations by Congress for such objects no sound objection can be raised.
Happily for our country, its peaceful policy and rapidly increasing population impose upon
us no urgent necessity for preparation, and leave but few trackless deserts between assailable
points and a patriotic people ever ready and generally able to protect them. These necessary
links the enterprise and energy of our people are steadily and boldly struggling to supply.
All experience affirms that wherever private enterprise will avail it is most wise for the
General Government to leave to that and individual watchfulness the location and execution
of all means of communication.

The surveys before alluded to were designed to ascertain the most practicable and economical
route for a railroad from the river Mississippi to the Pacific Ocean. Parties are now in the
field making explorations, where previous examinations had not supplied sufficient data and
where there was the best reason to hope the object sought might be found. The means and time
being both limited, it is not to be expected that all the accurate knowledge desired will be
obtained, but it is hoped that much and important information will be added to the stock previously
possessed, and that partial, if not full, reports of the surveys ordered will be received in
time for transmission to the two Houses of Congress on or before the first Monday in February
next, as required by the act of appropriation. The magnitude of the enterprise contemplated
has aroused and will doubtless continue to excite a very general interest throughout the country.
In its political, its commercial, and its military bearings it has varied, great, and increasing
claims to consideration. The heavy expense, the great delay, and, at times, fatality attending
travel by either of the Isthmus routes have demonstrated the advantage which would result from
interterritorial communication by such safe and rapid means as a railroad would supply.

These difficulties, which have been encountered in a period of peace, would be magnified and
still further increased in time of war. But whilst the embarrassments already encountered and
others under new contingencies to be anticipated may serve strikingly to exhibit the importance
of such a work, neither these nor all considerations combined can have an appreciable value
when weighed against the obligation strictly to adhere to the Constitution and faithfully to
execute the powers it confers.

Within this limit and to the extent of the interest of the Government involved it would seem
both expedient and proper if an economical and practicable route shall be found to aid by all
constitutional means in the construction of a road which will unite by speedy transit the populations
of the Pacific and Atlantic States. To guard against misconception, it should be remarked that
although the power to construct or aid in the construction of a road within the limits of a
Territory is not embarrassed by that question of jurisdiction which would arise within the
limits of a State, it is, nevertheless, held to be of doubtful power and more than doubtful
propriety, even within the limits of a Territory, for the General Government to undertake to
administer the affairs of a railroad, a canal, or other similar construction, and therefore
that its connection with a work of this character should be incidental rather than primary.
I will only add at present that, fully appreciating the magnitude of the subject and solicitous
that the Atlantic and Pacific shores of the Republic may be bound together by inseparable ties
of common interest, as well as of common fealty and attachment to the Union, I shall be disposed,
so far as my own action is concerned, to follow the lights of the Constitution as expounded
and illustrated by those whose opinions and expositions constitute the standard of my political
faith in regard to the powers of the Federal Government. It is, I trust, not necessary to say
that no grandeur of enterprise and no present urgent inducement promising popular favor will
lead me to disregard those lights or to depart from that path which experience has proved to
be safe, and which is now radiant with the glow of prosperity and legitimate constitutional
progress. We can afford to wait, but we can not afford to overlook the ark of our security.

It is no part of my purpose to give prominence to any subject which may properly be regarded
as set at rest by the deliberate judgment of the people. But while the present is bright with
promise and the future full of demand and inducement for the exercise of active intelligence,
the past can never be without useful lessons of admonition and instruction. If its dangers
serve not as beacons, they will evidently fail to fulfill the object of a wise design. When
the grave shall have closed over all who are now endeavoring to meet the obligations of duty,
the year 1850 will be recurred to as a period filled with anxious apprehension. A successful
war had just terminated. Peace brought with it a vast augmentation of territory. Disturbing
questions arose bearing upon the domestic institutions of one portion of the Confederacy and
involving the constitutional rights of the States. But notwithstanding differences of opinion
and sentiment which then existed in relation to details and specific provisions, the acquiescence
of distinguished citizens, whose devotion to the Union can never be doubted, has given renewed
vigor to our institutions and restored a sense of repose and security to the public mind throughout
the Confederacy. That this repose is to suffer no shock during my official term, if I have
power to avert it, those who placed me here may be assured. The wisdom of men who knew what
independence cost, who had put all at stake upon the issue of the Revolutionary struggle, disposed
of the subject to which I refer in the only way consistent with the Union of these States and
with the march of power and prosperity which has made us what we are. It is a significant fact
that from the adoption of the Constitution until the officers and soldiers of the Revolution
had passed to their graves, or, through the infirmities of age and wounds, had ceased to participate
actively in public affairs, there was not merely a quiet acquiescence in, but a prompt vindication
of, the constitutional rights of the States. The reserved powers were scrupulously respected.
No statesman put forth the narrow views of casuists to justify interference and agitation,
but the spirit of the compact was regarded as sacred in the eye of honor and indispensable
for the great experiment of civil liberty, which, environed by inherent difficulties, was yet
borne forward in apparent weakness by a power superior to all obstacles. There is no condemnation
which the voice of freedom will not pronounce upon us should we prove faithless to this great
trust. While men inhabiting different parts of this vast continent can no more be expected
to hold the same opinions or entertain the same sentiments than every variety of climate or
soil can be expected to furnish the same agricultural products, they can unite in a common
object and sustain common principles essential to the maintenance of that object. The gallant
men of the South and the North could stand together during the struggle of the Revolution;
they could stand together in the more trying period which succeeded the clangor of arms. As
their united valor was adequate to all the trials of the camp and dangers of the field, so
their united wisdom proved equal to the greater task of founding upon a deep and broad basis
institutions which it has been our privilege to enjoy and will ever be our most sacred duty
to sustain. It is but the feeble expression of a faith strong and universal to say that their
sons, whose blood mingled so often upon the same field during the War of 1812 and who have
more recently borne in triumph the flag of the country upon a foreign soil, will never permit
alienation of feeling to weaken the power of their united efforts nor internal dissensions
to paralyze the great arm of freedom, uplifted for the vindication of self-government.

I have thus briefly presented such suggestions as seem to me especially worthy of your consideration.
In providing for the present you can hardly fail to avail yourselves of the light which the
experience of the past casts upon the future.

The growth of our population has now brought us, in the destined career of our national history,
to a point at which it well behooves us to expand our vision over the vast prospective.

The successive decennial returns of the census since the adoption of the Constitution have
revealed a law of steady, progressive development, which may be stated in general terms as
a duplication every quarter century. Carried forward from the point already reached for only
a short period of time, as applicable to the existence of a nation, this law of progress, if
unchecked, will bring us to almost incredible results. A large allowance for a diminished proportional
effect of emigration would not very materially reduce the estimate, while the increased average
duration of human life known to have already resulted from the scientific and hygienic improvements
of the past fifty years will tend to keep up through the next fifty, or perhaps hundred, the
same ratio of growth which has been thus revealed in our past progress; and to the influence
of these causes may be added the influx of laboring masses from eastern Asia to the Pacific
side of our possessions, together with the probable accession of the populations already existing
in other parts of our hemisphere, which within the period in question will feel with yearly
increasing force the natural attraction of so vast, powerful, and prosperous a confederation
of self-governing republics and will seek the privilege of being admitted within its safe and
happy bosom, transferring with themselves, by a peaceful and healthy process of incorporation,
spacious regions of virgin and exuberant soil, which are destined to swarm with the fast growing
and fast-spreading millions of our race.

These considerations seem fully to justify the presumption that the law of population above
stated will continue to act with undiminished effect through at least the next half century,
and that thousands of persons who have already arrived at maturity and are now exercising the
rights of freemen will close their eyes on the spectacle of more than 100,000,000 of population
embraced within the majestic proportions of the American Union. It is not merely as an interesting
topic of speculation that I present these views for your consideration. They have important
practical bearings upon all the political duties we are called upon to perform. Heretofore
our system of government has worked on what may be termed a miniature scale in comparison with
the development which it must thus assume within a future so near at hand as scarcely to be
beyond the present of the existing generation.

It is evident that a confederation so vast and so varied, both in numbers and in territorial
extent, in habits and in interests, could only be kept in national cohesion by the strictest
fidelity to the principles of the Constitution as understood by those who have adhered to the
most restricted construction of the powers granted by the people and the States. Interpreted
and applied according to those principles, the great compact adapts itself with healthy ease
and freedom to an unlimited extension of that benign system of federative self-government of
which it is our glorious and, I trust, immortal charter. Let us, then, with redoubled vigilance,
be on our guard against yielding to the temptation of the exercise of doubtful powers, even
under the pressure of the motives of conceded temporary advantage and apparent temporary expediency.
The minimum of Federal government compatible with the maintenance of national unity and efficient
action in our relations with the rest of the world should afford the rule and measure of construction
of our powers under the general clauses of the Constitution. A spirit of strict deference to
the sovereign rights and dignity of every State, rather than a disposition to subordinate the
States into a provincial relation to the central authority, should characterize all our exercise
of the respective powers temporarily vested in us as a sacred trust from the generous confidence
of our constituents.

In like manner, as a manifestly indispensable condition of the perpetuation of the Union and
of the realization of that magnificent national future adverted to, does the duty become yearly
stronger and clearer upon us, as citizens of the several States, to cultivate a fraternal and
affectionate spirit, language, and conduct in regard to other States and in relation to the
varied interests, institutions, and habits of sentiment and opinion which may respectively
characterize them. Mutual forbearance, respect, and noninterference in our personal action
as citizens and an enlarged exercise of the most liberal principles of comity in the public
dealings of State with State, whether in legislation or in the execution of laws, are the means
to perpetuate that confidence and fraternity the decay of which a mere political union, on
so vast a scale, could not long survive.

In still another point of view is an important practical duty suggested by this consideration
of the magnitude of dimensions to which our political system, with its corresponding machinery
of government, is so rapidly expanding. With increased vigilance does it require us to cultivate
the cardinal virtues of public frugality and official integrity and purity. Public affairs
ought to be so conducted that a settled conviction shall pervade the entire Union that nothing
short of the highest tone and standard of public morality marks every part of the administration
and legislation of the General Government. Thus will the federal system, whatever expansion
time and progress may give it, continue more and more deeply rooted in the love and confidence
of the people.

That wise economy which is as far removed from parsimony as from corrupt and corrupting extravagance;
that single regard for the public good which will frown upon all attempts to approach the Treasury
with insidious projects of private interest cloaked under public pretexts; that sound fiscal
administration which, in the legislative department, guards against the dangerous temptations
incident to overflowing revenue, and, in the executive, maintains an unsleeping watchfulness
against the tendency of all national expenditure to extravagance, while they are admitted elementary
political duties, may, I trust, be deemed as properly adverted to and urged in view of the
more impressive sense of that necessity which is directly suggested by the considerations now
presented.

Since the adjournment of Congress the Vice-President of the United States has passed from the
scenes of earth, without having entered upon the duties of the station to which he had been
called by the voice of his countrymen. Having occupied almost continuously for more than thirty
years a seat in one or the other of the two Houses of Congress, and having by his singular
purity and wisdom secured unbounded confidence and universal respect, his failing health was
watched by the nation with painful solicitude. His loss to the country, under all the circumstances,
has been justly regarded as irreparable.

In compliance with the act of Congress of March 2, 1853, the oath of office was administered
to him on the 24th of that month at Ariadne estate, near Matanzas, in the island of Cuba; but
his strength gradually declined, and was hardly sufficient to enable him to return to his home
in Alabama, where, on the 18th day of April, in the most calm and peaceful way, his long and
eminently useful career was terminated. Entertaining unlimited confidence in your intelligent
and patriotic devotion to the public interest, and being conscious of no motives on my part
which are not inseparable from the honor and advancement of my country, I hope it may be my
privilege to deserve and secure not only your cordial cooperation in great public measures,
but also those relations of mutual confidence and regard which it is always so desirable to
cultivate between members of coordinate branches of the Government.

***

State of the Union Address Franklin Pierce December 4, 1854

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives:

The past has been an eventful year, and will be hereafter referred to as a marked epoch in
the history of the world. While we have been happily preserved from the calamities of war,
our domestic prosperity has not been entirely uninterrupted. The crops in portions of the country
have been nearly cut off. Disease has prevailed to a greater extent than usual, and the sacrifice
of human life through casualties by sea and land is without parallel. But the pestilence has
swept by, and restored salubrity invites the absent to their homes and the return of business
to its ordinary channels. If the earth has rewarded the labor of the husbandman less bountifully
than in preceding seasons, it has left him with abundance for domestic wants and a large surplus
for exportation. In the present, therefore, as in the past, we find ample grounds for reverent
thankfulness to the God of grace and providence for His protecting care and merciful dealings
with us as a people.

Although our attention has been arrested by painful interest in passing events, yet our country
feels no more than the slight vibrations of the convulsions which have shaken Europe. As individuals
we can not repress sympathy with human suffering nor regret for the causes which produce it;
as a nation we are reminded that whatever interrupts the peace or checks the prosperity of
any part of Christendom tends more or less to involve our own. The condition of States is not
unlike that of individuals; they are mutually dependent upon each other. Amicable relations
between them and reciprocal good will are essential for the promotion of whatever is desirable
in their moral, social, and political condition. Hence it has been my earnest endeavor to maintain
peace and friendly intercourse with all nations.

The wise theory of this Government, so early adopted and steadily pursued, of avoiding all
entangling alliances has hitherto exempted it from many complications in which it would otherwise
have become involved. Notwithstanding this our clearly defined and well-sustained course of
action and our geographical position, so remote from Europe, increasing disposition has been
manifested by some of its Governments to supervise and in certain respects to direct our foreign
policy. In plans for adjusting the balance of power among themselves they have assumed to take
us into account, and would constrain us to conform our conduct to their views. One or another
of the powers of Europe has from time to time undertaken to enforce arbitrary regulations contrary
in many respects to established principles of international law. That law the United States
have in their foreign intercourse uniformly respected and observed, and they can not recognize
any such interpolations therein as the temporary interests of others may suggest. They do not
admit that the sovereigns of one continent or of a particular community of states can legislate
for all others.

Leaving the transatlantic nations to adjust their political system in the way they may think
best for their common welfare, the independent powers of this continent may well assert the
right to be exempt from all annoying interference on their part. Systematic abstinence from
intimate political connection with distant foreign nations does not conflict with giving the
widest range to our foreign commerce. This distinction, so clearly marked in history, seems
to have been overlooked or disregarded by some leading foreign states. Our refusal to be brought
within and subjected to their peculiar system has, I fear, created a jealous distrust of our
conduct and induced on their part occasional acts of disturbing effect upon our foreign relations.
Our present attitude and past course give assurances, which should not be questioned, that
our purposes are not aggressive nor threatening to the safety and welfare of other nations.
Our military establishment in time of peace is adapted to maintain exterior defenses and to
preserve order among the aboriginal tribes within the limits of the Union. Our naval force
is intended only for the protection of our citizens abroad and of our commerce, diffused, as
it is, over all the seas of the globe. The Government of the United States, being essentially
pacific in policy, stands prepared to repel invasion by the voluntary service of a patriotic
people, and provides no permanent means of foreign aggression. These considerations should
allay all apprehension that we are disposed to encroach on the rights or endanger the security
of other states.

Some European powers have regarded with disquieting concern the territorial expansion of the
United States. This rapid growth has resulted from the legitimate exercise of sovereign rights
belonging alike to all nations, and by many liberally exercised. Under such circumstances it
could hardly have been expected that those among them which have within a comparatively recent
period subdued and absorbed ancient kingdoms, planted their standards on every continent, and
now possess or claim the control of the islands of every ocean as their appropriate domain
would look with unfriendly sentiments upon the acquisitions of this country, in every instance
honorably obtained, or would feel themselves justified in imputing our advancement to a spirit
of aggression or to a passion for political predominance. Our foreign commerce has reached
a magnitude and extent nearly equal to that of the first maritime power of the earth, and exceeding
that of any other. Over this great interest, in which not only our merchants, but all classes
of citizens, at least indirectly, are concerned, it is the duty of the executive and legislative
branches of the Government to exercise a careful supervision and adopt proper measures for
its protection. The policy which I had in view in regard to this interest embraces its future
as well as its present security. Long experience has shown that, in general, when the principal
powers of Europe are engaged in war the rights of neutral nations are endangered. This consideration
led, in the progress of the War of our Independence, to the formation of the celebrated confederacy
of armed neutrality, a primary object of which was to assert the doctrine that free ships make
free goods, except in the case of articles contraband of war--a doctrine which from the very
commencement of our national being has been a cherished idea of the statesmen of this country.
At one period or another every maritime power has by some solemn treaty stipulation recognized
that principle, and it might have been hoped that it would come to be universally received
and respected as a rule of international law. But the refusal of one power prevented this,
and in the next great war which ensued--that of the French Revolution--it failed to be respected
among the belligerent States of Europe. Notwithstanding this, the principle is generally admitted
to be a sound and salutary one, so much so that at the commencement of the existing war in
Europe Great Britain and France announced their purpose to observe it for the present; not,
however, as a recognized international fight, but as a mere concession for the time being.
The cooperation, however, of these two powerful maritime nations in the interest of neutral
rights appeared to me to afford an occasion inviting and justifying on the part of the United
States a renewed effort to make the doctrine in question a principle of international law,
by means of special conventions between the several powers of Europe and America. Accordingly,
a proposition embracing not only the rule that free ships make free goods, except contraband
articles, but also the less contested one that neutral property other than contraband, though
on board enemy's ships, shall be exempt from confiscation, has been submitted by this Government
to those of Europe and America.

Russia acted promptly in this matter, and a convention was concluded between that country and
the United States providing for the observance of the principles announced, not only as between
themselves, but also as between them and all other nations which shall enter into like stipulations.
None of the other powers have as yet taken final action on the subject. I am not aware, however,
that any objection to the proposed stipulations has been made, but, on the contrary, they are
acknowledged to be essential to the security of neutral commerce, and the only apparent obstacle
to their general adoption is in the possibility that it may be encumbered by inadmissible conditions.
The King of the Two Sicilies has expressed to our minister at Naples his readiness to concur
in our proposition relative to neutral rights and to enter into a convention on that subject.

The King of Prussia entirely approves of the project of a treaty to the same effect submitted
to him, but proposes an additional article providing for the renunciation of privateering.
Such an article, for most obvious reasons, is much desired by nations having naval establishments
large in proportion to their foreign commerce. If it were adopted as an international rule,
the commerce of a nation having comparatively a small naval force would be very much at the
mercy of its enemy in case of war with a power of decided naval superiority. The bare statement
of the condition in which the United States would be placed, after having surrendered the right
to resort to privateers, in the event of war with a belligerent of naval supremacy will show
that this Government could never listen to such a proposition. The navy of the first maritime
power in Europe is at least ten times as large as that of the United States. The foreign commerce
of the two countries is nearly equal, and about equally exposed to hostile depredations. In
war between that power and the United States, without resort on our part to our mercantile
marine the means of our enemy to inflict injury upon our commerce would be tenfold greater
than ours to retaliate. We could not extricate our country from this unequal condition, with
such an enemy, unless we at once departed from our present peaceful policy and became a great
naval power. Nor would this country be better situated in war with one of the secondary naval
powers. Though the naval disparity would be less, the greater extent and more exposed condition
of our widespread commerce would give any of them a like advantage over us.

The proposition to enter into engagements to forego a resort to privateers in case this country
should be forced into war with a great naval power is not entitled to more favorable consideration
than would be a proposition to agree not to accept the services of volunteers for operations
on land. When the honor or the rights of our country require it to assume a hostile attitude,
it confidently relies upon the patriotism of its citizens, not ordinarily devoted to the military
profession, to augment the Army and the Navy so as to make them fully adequate to the emergency
which calls them into action. The proposal to surrender the right to employ privateers is professedly
founded upon the principle that private property of unoffending noncombatants, though enemies,
should be exempt from the ravages of war; but the proposed surrender goes but little way in
carrying out that principle, which equally requires that such private property should not be
seized or molested by national ships of war. Should the leading powers of Europe concur in
proposing as a rule of international law to exempt private property upon the ocean from seizure
by public armed cruisers as well as by privateers, the United States will readily meet them
upon that broad ground.

Since the adjournment of Congress the ratifications of the treaty between the United States
and Great Britain relative to coast fisheries and to reciprocal trade with the British North
American Provinces have been exchanged, and some of its anticipated advantages are already
enjoyed by us, although its full execution was to abide certain acts of legislation not yet
fully performed. So soon as it was ratified Great Britain opened to our commerce the free navigation
of the river St. Lawrence and to our fishermen unmolested access to the shores and bays, from
which they had been previously excluded, on the coasts of her North American Provinces; in
return for which she asked for the introduction free of duty into the ports of the United States
of the fish caught on the same coast by British fishermen. This being the compensation stipulated
in the treaty for privileges of the highest importance and value to the United States, which
were thus voluntarily yielded before it became effective, the request seemed to me to be a
reasonable one; but it could not be acceded to from want of authority to suspend our laws imposing
duties upon all foreign fish. In the meantime the Treasury Department issued a regulation for
ascertaining the duties paid or secured by bonds on fish caught on the coasts of the British
Provinces and brought to our markets by British subjects after the fishing grounds had been
made fully accessible to the citizens of the United States. I recommend to your favorable consideration
a proposition, which will be submitted to you, for authority to refund the duties and cancel
the bonds thus received. The Provinces of Canada and New Brunswick have also anticipated the
full operation of the treaty by legislative arrangements, respectively, to admit free of duty
the products of the United States mentioned in the free list of the treaty; and an arrangement
similar to that regarding British fish has been made for duties now chargeable on the products
of those Provinces enumerated in the same free list and introduced therefrom into the United
States, a proposition for refunding which will, in my judgment, be in like manner entitled
to your favorable consideration.

There is difference of opinion between the United States and Great Britain as to the boundary
line of the Territory of Washington adjoining the British possessions on the Pacific, which
has already led to difficulties on the part of the citizens and local authorities of the two
Governments I recommend that provision he made for a commission, to be joined by one on the
part of Her Britannic Majesty, for the purpose of running and establishing the line in controversy.
Certain stipulations of the third and fourth articles of the treaty concluded by the United
States and Great Britain in 1846, regarding possessory rights of the Hudsons Bay Company and
property of the Pugets Sound Agricultural Company, have given rise to serious disputes, and
it is important to all concerned that summary means of settling them amicably should be devised.
I have reason to believe that an arrangement can be made on just terms for the extinguishment
of the rights in question, embracing also the right of the Hudsons Bay Company to the navigation
of the river Columbia; and I therefore suggest to your consideration the expediency of making
a contingent appropriation for that purpose.

France was the early and efficient ally of the United States in their struggle for independence.
From that time to the present, with occasional slight interruptions, cordial relations of friendship
have existed between the Governments and people of the two countries. The kindly sentiments
cherished alike by both nations have led to extensive social and commercial intercourse, which
I trust will not be interrupted or checked by any casual event of an apparently unsatisfactory
character. The French consul at San Francisco was not long since brought into the United States
district court at that place by compulsory process as a witness in favor of another foreign
consul, in violation, as the French Government conceives, of his privileges under our consular
convention with France. There being nothing in the transaction which could imply any disrespect
to France or its consul, such explanation has been made as, I hope, will be satisfactory. Subsequently
misunderstanding arose on the subject of the French Government having, as it appeared, abruptly
excluded the American minister to Spain from passing through France on his way from London
to Madrid. But that Government has unequivocally disavowed any design to deny the right of
transit to the minister of the United States, and after explanations to this effect he has
resumed his journey and actually returned through France to Spain. I herewith lay before Congress
the correspondence on this subject between our envoy at Paris and the minister of foreign relations
of the French Government.

The position of our affairs with Spain remains as at the close of the last session. Internal
agitation, assuming very nearly the character of political revolution, has recently convulsed
that country. The late ministers were violently expelled from power, and men of very different
views in relation to its internal affairs have succeeded. Since this change there has been
no propitious opportunity to resume and press on negotiations for the adjustment of serious
questions of difficulty between the Spanish Government and the United States. There is reason
to believe that our minister will find the present Government more favorably inclined than
the preceding to comply with our just demands and to make suitable arrangements for restoring
harmony and preserving peace between the two countries.

Negotiations are pending with Denmark to discontinue the practice of levying tolls on our vessels
and their cargoes passing through the Sound. I do not doubt that we can claim exemption therefrom
as a matter of right. It is admitted on all hands that this exaction is sanctioned, not by
the general principles of the law of nations, but only by special conventions which most of
the commercial nations have entered into with Denmark. The fifth article of our treaty of 1826
with Denmark provides that there shall not be paid on the vessels of the United States and
their cargoes when passing through the Sound higher duties than those of the most favored nations.
This may be regarded as an implied agreement to submit to the tolls during the continuance
of the treaty, and consequently may embarrass the assertion of our right to be released therefrom.
There are also other provisions in the treaty which ought to be modified. It was to remain
in force for ten years and until one year after either party should give notice to the other
of intention to terminate it. I deem it expedient that the contemplated notice should be given
to the Government of Denmark.

The naval expedition dispatched about two years since for the purpose of establishing relations
with the Empire of Japan has been ably and skillfully conducted to a successful termination
by the officer to whom it was intrusted. A treaty opening certain of the ports of that populous
country has been negotiated, and in order to give full effect thereto it only remains to exchange
ratifications and adopt requisite commercial regulations.

The treaty lately concluded between the United States and Mexico settled some of our most embarrassing
difficulties with that country, but numerous claims upon it for wrongs and injuries to our
citizens remained unadjusted, and many new cases have been recently added to the former list
of grievances. Our legation has been earnest in its endeavors to obtain from the Mexican Government
a favorable consideration of these claims, but hitherto without success. This failure is probably
in some measure to be ascribed to the disturbed condition of that country. It has been my anxious
desire to maintain friendly relations with the Mexican Republic and to cause its rights and
territories to be respected, not only by our citizens, but by foreigners who have resorted
to the United States for the purpose of organizing hostile expeditions against some of the
States of that Republic. The defenseless condition in which its frontiers have been left has
stimulated lawless adventurers to embark in these enterprises and greatly increased the difficulty
of enforcing our obligations of neutrality. Regarding it as my solemn duty to fulfill efficiently
these obligations not only toward Mexico, but other foreign nations, I have exerted all the
powers with which I am invested to defeat such proceedings and bring to punishment those who
by taking a part therein violated our laws. The energy and activity of our civil and military
authorities have frustrated the designs of those who meditated expeditions of this character
except in two instances. One of these, composed of foreigners, was at first countenanced and
aided by the Mexican Government itself, it having been deceived as to their real object. The
other, small in number, eluded the vigilance of the magistrates at San Francisco and succeeded
in reaching the Mexican territories; but the effective measures taken by this Government compelled
the abandonment of the undertaking.

The commission to establish the new line between the United States and Mexico, according to
the provisions of the treaty of the 30th of December last, has been organized, and the work
is already commenced.

Our treaties with the Argentine Confederation and with the Republics of Uruguay and Paraguay
secure to us the free navigation of the river La Plata and some of its larger tributaries,
but the same success has not attended our endeavors to open the Amazon. The reasons in favor
of the free use of that river I had occasion to present fully in a former message, and, considering
the cordial relations which have long existed between this Government and Brazil, it may be
expected that pending negotiations will eventually reach a favorable result.

Convenient means of transit between the several parts of a country are not only desirable for
the objects of commercial and personal communication, but essential to its existence under
one government. Separated, as are the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of the United States, by
the whole breadth of the continent, still the inhabitants of each are closely bound together
by community of origin and institutions and by strong attachment to the Union. Hence the constant
and increasing intercourse and vast interchange of commercial productions between these remote
divisions of the Republic. At the present time the most practicable and only, commodious routes
for communication between them are by the way of the isthmus of Central America. It is the
duty of the Government to secure these avenues against all danger of interruption.

In relation to Central America, perplexing questions existed between the United States and
Great Britain at the time of the cession of California. These, as well as questions which subsequently
arose concerning interoceanic communication across the Isthmus, were, as it was supposed, adjusted
by the treaty of April 19, 1850, but, unfortunately, they have been reopened by serious misunderstanding
as to the import of some or its provisions, a readjustment of which is now under consideration.
Our minister at London has made strenuous efforts to accomplish this desirable object, but
has not yet found it possible to bring the negotiations to a termination.

As incidental to these questions, I deem it proper to notice an occurrence which happened in
Central America near the close of the last session of Congress. So soon as the necessity was
perceived of establishing interoceanic communications across the Isthmus a company was organized,
under the authority of the State of Nicaragua, but composed for the most part of citizens of
the United States, for the purpose of opening such a transit way by the river San Juan and
Lake Nicaragua, which soon became an eligible and much used route in the transportation of
our citizens and their property between the Atlantic and Pacific. Meanwhile, and in anticipation
of the completion and importance of this transit way, a number of adventurers had taken possession
of the old Spanish port at the mouth of the river San Juan in open defiance of the State or
States of Central America, which upon their becoming independent had rightfully succeeded to
the local sovereignty and jurisdiction of Spain. These adventurers undertook to change the
name of the place from San Juan del Norte to Greytown, and though at first pretending to act
as the subjects of the fictitious sovereign of the Mosquito Indians, they subsequently repudiated
the control of any power whatever, assumed to adopt a distinct political organization, and
declared themselves an independent sovereign state. If at some time a faint hope was entertained
that they might become a stable and respectable community, that hope soon vanished. They proceeded
to assert unfounded claims to civil jurisdiction over Punta Arenas, a position on the opposite
side of the river San Juan, which was in possession, under a title wholly independent of them,
of citizens of the United States interested in the Nicaragua Transit Company, and which was
indispensably necessary to the prosperous operation of that route across the Isthmus. The company
resisted their groundless claims, whereupon they proceeded to destroy some of its buildings
and attempted violently to dispossess it.

At a later period they organized a strong force for the purpose of demolishing the establishment
at Punta Arenas, but this mischievous design was defeated by the interposition of one of our
ships of war at that time in the harbor of San Juan. Subsequently to this, in May last, a body
of men from Greytown crossed over to Punta Arenas, arrogating authority to arrest on the charge
of murder a captain of one of the steamboats of the Transit Company. Being well aware that
the claim to exercise jurisdiction there would be resisted then, as it had been on previous
occasions, they went prepared to assert it by force of arms. Our minister to Central America
happened to be present on that occasion. Believing that the captain of the steamboat was innocent
(for he witnessed the transaction on which the charge was founder), and believing also that
the intruding party, having no jurisdiction over the place where they proposed to make the
arrest, would encounter desperate resistance if they persisted in their purpose, he interposed,
effectually, to prevent violence and bloodshed. The American minister afterwards visited Greytown,
and whilst he was there a mob, including certain of the so-called public functionaries of the
place, surrounded the house in which he was, avowing that they had come to arrest him by order
of some person exercising the chief authority. While parleying with them he was wounded by
a missile from the crowd. A boat dispatched from the American steamer Northern Light to release
him from the perilous situation in which he was understood to be was fired into by the town
guard and compelled to return. These incidents, together with the known character of the population
of Greytown and their excited state, induced just apprehensions that the lives and property
of our citizens at Punta Arenas would be in imminent danger after the departure of the steamer,
with her passengers, for New York, unless a guard was left for their protection. For this purpose,
and in order to insure the safety of passengers and property passing over the route, a temporary
force was organized, at considerable expense to the United States, for which provision was
made at the last session of Congress.

This pretended community, a heterogeneous assemblage gathered from various countries, and composed
for the most part of blacks and persons of mixed blood, had previously given other indications
of mischievous and dangerous propensities. Early in the same month property was clandestinely
abstracted from the depot of the Transit Company and taken to Greytown. The plunderers obtained
shelter there and their pursuers were driven back by its people, who not only protected the
wrongdoers and shared the plunder, but treated with rudeness and violence those who sought
to recover their property.

Such, in substance, are the facts submitted to my consideration, and proved by trustworthy
evidence. I could not doubt that the case demanded the interposition of this Government. Justice
required that reparation should be made for so many and such gross wrongs, and that a course
of insolence and plunder, tending directly to the insecurity of the lives of numerous travelers
and of the rich treasure belonging to our citizens passing over this transit way, should be
peremptorily arrested. Whatever it might be in other respects, the community in question, in
power to do mischief, was not despicable. It was well provided with ordnance, small arms, and
ammunition, and might easily seize on the unarmed boats, freighted with millions of property,
which passed almost daily within its reach. It did not profess to belong to any regular government,
and had, in fact, no recognized dependence on or connection with anyone to which the United
States or their injured citizens might apply for redress or which could be held responsible
in any way for the outrages committed. Not standing before the world in the attitude of an
organized political society, being neither competent to exercise the rights nor to discharge
the obligations of a government, it was, in fact, a marauding establishment too dangerous to
be disregarded and too guilty to pass unpunished, and yet incapable of being treated in any
other way than as a piratical resort of outlaws or a camp of savages depredating on emigrant
trains or caravans and the frontier settlements of civilized states.

Seasonable notice was given to the people of Greytown that this Government required them to
repair the injuries they had done to our citizens and to make suitable apology for their insult
of our minister, and that a ship of war would be dispatched thither to enforce compliance with
these demands. But the notice passed unheeded. Thereupon a commander of the Navy, in charge
of the sloop of war Cyane, was ordered to repeat the demands and to insist upon a compliance
therewith. Finding that neither the populace nor those assuming to have authority over them
manifested any disposition to make the required reparation, or even to offer excuse for their
conduct, he warned them by a public proclamation that if they did not give satisfaction within
a time specified he would bombard the town. By this procedure he afforded them opportunity
to provide for their personal safety. To those also who desired to avoid loss of property in
the punishment about to be inflicted on the offending town he furnished the means of removing
their effects by the boats of his own ship and of a steamer which he procured and tendered
to them for that purpose. At length, perceiving no disposition on the part of the town to comply
with his requisitions, he appealed to the commander of Her Britannic Majesty's schooner Bermuda,
who was seen to have intercourse and apparently much influence with the leaders among them,
to interpose and persuade them to take some course calculated to save the necessity of resorting
to the extreme measure indicated in his proclamation; but that officer, instead of acceding
to the request, did nothing more than to protest against the contemplated bombardment. No steps
of any sort were taken by the people to give the satisfaction required. No individuals, if
any there were, who regarded themselves as not responsible for the misconduct of the community
adopted any means to separate themselves from the fate of the guilty. The several charges on
which the demands for redress were founded had been publicly known to all for some time, and
were again announced to them. They did not deny any of these charges; they offered no explanation,
nothing in extenuation of their conduct, but contumaciously refused to hold any intercourse
with the commander of the Cyane. By their obstinate silence they seemed rather desirous to
provoke chastisement than to escape it. There is ample reason to believe that this conduct
of wanton defiance on their part is imputable chiefly to the delusive idea that the American
Government would be deterred from punishing them through fear of displeasing a formidable foreign
power, which they presumed to think looked with complacency upon their aggressive and insulting
deportment toward the United States. The Cyane at length fired upon the town. Before much injury
had been done the fire was twice suspended in order to afford opportunity for an arrangement,
but this was declined. Most of the buildings of the place, of little value generally, were
in the sequel destroyed, but, owing to the considerate precautions taken by our naval commander,
there was no destruction of life.

When the Cyane was ordered to Central America, it was confidently hoped and expected that no
occasion would arise for "a resort to violence and destruction of property and loss of life."
Instructions to that effect were given to her commander; and no extreme act would have been
requisite had not the people themselves, by their extraordinary conduct in the affair, frustrated
all the possible mild measures for obtaining satisfaction. A withdrawal from the place, the
object of his visit entirely defeated, would under the circumstances in which the commander
of the Cyane found himself have been absolute abandonment of all claim of our citizens for
indemnification and submissive acquiescence in national indignity. It would have encouraged
in these lawless men a spirit of insolence and rapine most dangerous to the lives and property
of our citizens at Punta Arenas, and probably emboldened them to grasp at the treasures and
valuable merchandise continually passing over the Nicaragua route. It certainly would have
been most satisfactory to me if the objects of the Cyane's mission could have been consummated
without any act of public force, but the arrogant contumacy of the offenders rendered it impossible
to avoid the alternative either to break up their establishment or to leave them impressed
with the idea that they might persevere with impunity in a career of insolence and plunder.

This transaction has been the subject of complaint on the part of some foreign powers, and
has been characterized with more of harshness than of justice. If comparisons were to be instituted,
it would not be difficult to present repeated instances in the history of states standing in
the very front of modern civilization where communities far less offending and more defenseless
than Greytown have been chastised with much greater severity, and where not cities only have
been laid in ruins, but human life has been recklessly sacrificed and the blood of the innocent
made profusely to mingle with that of the guilty.

Passing from foreign to domestic affairs, your attention is naturally directed to the financial
condition of the country, always a subject of general interest. During the same period the
payments made in redemption of the public debt, including interest and premium, amounted to
$24,336,380. To the sum total of the receipts of that year is to be added a balance remaining
in the Treasury at the commencement thereof, amounting to $21,942,892; and at the close of
the same year a corresponding balance, amounting to $20,137,967, of receipts above expenditures
also remained in the Treasury. Although, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Treasury, the
receipts of the current fiscal year are not likely to equal in amount those of the last, yet
they will undoubtedly exceed the amount of expenditures by at least $15,000,000. I shall therefore
continue to direct that the surplus revenue be applied, so far as it can be judiciously and
economically done, to the reduction of the public debt, the amount of which at the commencement
of the last fiscal year was $67,340,628; of which there had been paid on the 20th day of November,
1854, the sum of $22,365,172, leaving a balance of outstanding public debt of only $44,975,456,
redeemable at different periods within fourteen years. There are also remnants of other Government
stocks, most of which are already due, and on which the interest has ceased, but which have
not yet been presented for payment, amounting to $233,179. This statement exhibits the fact
that the annual income of the Government greatly exceeds the amount of its public debt, which
latter remains unpaid only because the time of payment has not yet matured, and it can not
be discharged at once except at the option of public creditors, who prefer to retain the securities
of the United States; and the other fact, not less striking, that the annual revenue from all
sources exceeds by many millions of dollars the amount needed for a prudent and economical
administration of the Government.

The estimates presented to Congress from the different Executive Departments at the last session
amounted to $38,406,581 and the appropriations made to the sum of $58,116,958. Of this excess
of appropriations over estimates, however, more than twenty millions was applicable to extraordinary
objects, having no reference to the usual annual expenditures. Among these objects was embraced
ten millions to meet the third article of the treaty between the United States and Mexico;
so that, in fact, for objects of ordinary expenditure the appropriations were limited to considerably
less than $40,000,000. I therefore renew my recommendation for a reduction of the duties on
imports. The report of the Secretary of the Treasury presents a series of tables showing the
operation of the revenue system for several successive years; and as the general principle
of reduction of duties with a view to revenue, and not protection, may now be regarded as the
settled policy of the country, I trust that little difficulty will be encountered in settling
the details of a measure to that effect.

In connection with this subject I recommend a change in the laws, which recent experience has
shown to be essential to the protection of the Government. There is no express provision of
law requiring the records and papers of a public character of the several officers of the Government
to be left in their offices for the use of their successors, nor any provision declaring it
felony on their part to make false entries in the books or return false accounts. In the absence
of such express provision by law, the outgoing officers in many instances have claimed and
exercised the right to take into their own possession important books and papers, on the ground
that these were their private property, and have placed them beyond the reach of the Government.
Conduct of this character, brought in several instances to the notice of the present Secretary
of the Treasury, naturally awakened his suspicion, and resulted in the disclosure that at four
ports--namely, Oswego, Toledo, Sandusky, and Milwaukee--the Treasury had, by false entries,
been defrauded within the four years next preceding March, 1853, of the sum of $198,000. The
great difficulty with which the detection of these frauds has been attended, in consequence
of the abstraction of books and papers by the retiring officers, and the facility with which
similar frauds in the public service may be perpetrated render the necessity of new legal enactments
in the respects above referred to quite obvious. For other material modifications of the revenue
laws which seem to me desirable, I refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Treasury.
That report and the tables which accompany it furnish ample proofs of the solid foundation
on which the financial security of the country rests and of the salutary influence of the independent-treasury
system upon commerce and all monetary operations.

The experience of the last year furnishes additional reasons, I regret to say, of a painful
character, for the recommendation heretofore made to provide for increasing the military force
employed in the Territory inhabited by the Indians. The settlers-on the frontier have suffered
much from the incursions of predatory bands, and large parties of emigrants to our Pacific
possessions have been massacred with impunity. The recurrence of such scenes can only be prevented
by teaching these wild tribes the power of and their responsibility to the United States. From
the garrisons of our frontier posts it is only possible to detach troops in small bodies; and
though these have on all occasions displayed a gallantry and a stern devotion to duty which
on a larger field would have commanded universal admiration, they have usually suffered severely
in these conflicts with superior numbers, and have sometimes been entirely sacrificed. All
the disposable force of the Army is already employed on this service, and is known to be wholly
inadequate to the protection which should be afforded. The public mind of the country has been
recently shocked by savage atrocities committed upon defenseless emigrants and border settlements,
and hardly less by the unnecessary destruction of valuable lives where inadequate detachments
of troops have undertaken to furnish the needed aid. Without increase of the military force
these scenes will be repeated, it is to be feared, on a larger scale and with more disastrous
consequences. Congress, I am sure, will perceive that the plainest duties and responsibilities
of Government are involved in this question, and I doubt not that prompt action may be confidently
anticipated when delay must be attended by such fearful hazards.

The bill of the last session providing for an increase of the pay of the rank and file of the
Army has had beneficial results, not only in facilitating enlistments, but in obvious improvement
in the class of men who enter the service. I regret that corresponding consideration was not
bestowed on the officers, who, in view of their character and services and the expenses to
which they are necessarily subject, receive at present what is, in my judgment, inadequate
compensation.

The valuable services constantly rendered by the Army and its inestimable importance as the
nucleus around which the volunteer forces of the nation can promptly gather in the hour of
danger, sufficiently attest the wisdom of maintaining a military peace establishment; but the
theory of our system and the wise practice under it require that any proposed augmentation
in time of peace be only commensurate with our extended limits and frontier relations. While
scrupulously adhering to this principle, I find in existing circumstances a necessity for increase
of our military force, and it is believed that four new regiments, two of infantry and two
of mounted men, will be sufficient to meet the present exigency. If it were necessary carefully
to weigh the cost in a case of such urgency, it would be shown that the additional expense
would be comparatively light.

With the increase of the numerical force of the Army should, I think, be combined certain measures
of reform in its organic arrangement and administration. The present organization is the result
of partial legislation often directed to special objects and interests; and the laws regulating
rank and command, having been adopted many years ago from the British code, are not always
applicable to our service. It is not surprising, therefore, that the system should be deficient
in the symmetry and simplicity essential to the harmonious working of its several parts, and
require a careful revision.

The present organization, by maintaining large staff corps or departments, separates many officers
from that close connection with troops and those active duties in the field which are deemed
requisite to qualify them for the varied responsibilities of high command. Were the duties
of the Army staff mainly discharged by officers detached from their regiments, it is believed
that the special service would be equally well performed and the discipline and instruction
of the Army be improved. While due regard to the security of the rights of officers and to
the nice sense of honor which should be cultivated among them would seem to exact compliance
with the established rule of promotion in ordinary cases, still it can hardly be doubted that
the range of promotion by selection, which is now practically confined to the grade of general
officers, might be somewhat extended with benefit to the public service. Observance of the
rule of seniority sometimes leads, especially in time of peace, to the promotion of officers
who, after meritorious and even distinguished service, may have been rendered by age or infirmity
incapable of performing active duty, and whose advancement, therefore, would tend to impair
the efficiency of the Army. Suitable provision for this class of officers, by the creation
of a retired list, would remedy the evil without wounding the just pride of men who by past
services have established a claim to high consideration. In again commending this measure to
the favorable consideration of Congress I would suggest that the power of placing officers
on the retired list be limited to one year. The practical operation of the measure would thus
be tested, and if after the lapse of years there should be occasion to renew the provision
it can be reproduced with any improvements which experience may indicate. The present organization
of the artillery into regiments is liable to obvious objections. The service of artillery is
that of batteries, and an organization of batteries into a corps of artillery would be more
consistent with the nature of their duties. A large part of the troops now called artillery
are, and have been, on duty as infantry, the distinction between the two arms being merely
nominal. This nominal artillery in our service is disproportionate to the whole force and greater
than the wants of the country demand. I therefore commend the discontinuance of a distinction
which has no foundation in either the arms used or the character of the service expected to
be performed.

In connection with the proposition for the increase of the Army, I have presented these suggestions
with regard to certain measures of reform as the complement of a system which would produce
the happiest results from a given expenditure, and which, I hope, may attract the early attention
and be deemed worthy of the approval of Congress.

The recommendation of the Secretary of the Navy having reference to more ample provisions for
the discipline and general improvement in the character of seamen and for the reorganization
and gradual increase of the Navy I deem eminently worthy of your favorable consideration. The
principles which have controlled our policy in relation to the permanent military force by
sea and land are sound, consistent with the theory of our system, and should by no means be
disregarded. But, limiting the force to the objects particularly set forth in the preceding
part of this message, we should not overlook the present magnitude and prospective extension
of our commercial marine, nor fail to give due weight to the fact that besides the 2,000 miles
of Atlantic seaboard we have now a Pacific coast stretching from Mexico to the British possessions
in the north, teeming with wealth and enterprise and demanding the constant presence of ships
of war. The augmentation of the Navy has not kept pace with the duties properly and profitably
assigned to it in time of peace, and it is inadequate for the large field of its operations,
not merely in the present, but still more in the progressively increasing exigencies of the
commerce of the United States. I cordially approve of the proposed apprentice system for our
national vessels recommended by the Secretary of the Navy. The occurrence during the last few
months of marine disasters of the most tragic nature, involving great loss of human life, has
produced intense emotions of sympathy and sorrow throughout the country. It may well be doubted
whether all these calamitous events are wholly attributable to the necessary and inevitable
dangers of the sea. The merchants, mariners, and shipbuilders of the United States are, it
is true, unsurpassed in far-reaching enterprise, skill, intelligence, and courage by any others
in the world. But with the increasing amount of our commercial tonnage in the aggregate and
the larger size and improved equipment of the ships now constructed a deficiency in the supply
of reliable seamen begins to be very seriously felt. The inconvenience may perhaps be met in
part by due regulation for the introduction into our merchant ships of indented apprentices,
which, while it would afford useful and eligible occupation to numerous young men, would have
a tendency to raise the character of seamen as a class. And it is deserving of serious reflection
whether it may not be desirable to revise the existing laws for the maintenance of discipline
at sea, upon which the security of life and property on the ocean must to so great an extent
depend. Although much attention has already been given by Congress to the proper construction
and arrangement of steam vessels and all passenger ships, still it is believed that the resources
of science and mechanical skill in this direction have not been exhausted. No good reason exists
for the marked distinction which appears upon our statutes between the laws for protecting
life and property at sea and those for protecting them on land. In most of the States severe
penalties are provided to punish conductors of trains, engineers, and others employed in the
transportation of persons by railway or by steamboats on rivers. Why should not the same principle
be applied to acts of insubordination, cowardice, or other misconduct on the part of masters
and mariners producing injury or death to passengers on the high seas, beyond the jurisdiction
of any of the States, and where such delinquencies can be reached only by the power of Congress?
The whole subject is earnestly commended to your consideration.

The report of the Postmaster-General, to which you are referred for many interesting details
in relation to this important and rapidly extending branch of the public service, shows that
the expenditure of the year ending June 30, 1854, including $133,483 of balance due to foreign
offices, amounted to $8,710,907. The gross receipts during the same period amounted to $6,955,586,
exhibiting an expenditure over income of $1,755,321 and a diminution of deficiency as compared
with the last year of $361,756. The increase of the revenue of the Department for the year
ending June 30, 1854, over the preceding year was $970,399. No proportionate increase, however,
can be anticipated for the current year, in consequence of the act of Congress of June 23,
1854, providing for increased compensation to all postmasters. From these statements it is
apparent that the Post-Office Department, instead of defraying its expenses according to the
design at the time of its creation, is now, and under existing laws must continue to be, to
no small extent a charge upon the general Treasury. The cost of mail transportation during
the year ending June 30, 1854, exceeds the cost of the preceding year by $495,074. I again
call your attention to the subject of mail transportation by ocean steamers, and commend the
suggestions of the Postmaster General to your early attention.

During the last fiscal year 11,070,935 acres of the public lands have been surveyed and 8,190,017
acres brought into market. The number of acres sold is 7,035,735 and the amount received therefor
$9,285,533. The aggregate amount of lands sold, located under military scrip and land warrants,
selected as swamp lands by States, and by locating under grants for roads is upward of 23,000,000
acres. The increase of lands sold over the previous year is about 6,000,000 acres, and the
sales during the first two quarters of the current year present the extraordinary result of
five and a half millions sold, exceeding by nearly 4,000,000 acres the sales of the corresponding
quarters of the last year.

The commendable policy of the Government in relation to setting apart public domain for those
who have served their country in time of war is illustrated by the fact that since 1790 no
less than 30,000,000 acres have been applied to this object.

The suggestions which I submitted in my annual message of last year in reference to grants
of land in aid of the construction of railways were less full and explicit than the magnitude
of the subject and subsequent developments would seem to render proper and desirable. Of the
soundness of the principle then asserted with regard to the limitation of the power of Congress
I entertain no doubt, but in its application it is not enough that the value of lands in a
particular locality may be enhanced; that, in fact, a larger amount of money may probably be
received in a given time for alternate sections than could have been realized for all the sections
without the impulse and influence of the proposed improvements. A prudent proprietor looks
beyond limited sections of his domain, beyond present results to the ultimate effect which
a particular line of policy is likely to produce upon all his possessions and interests. The
Government, which is trustee in this matter for the people of the States, is bound to take
the same wise and comprehensive view. Prior to and during the last session of Congress upward
of 30,000,000 acres of land were withdrawn from public sale with a view to applications for
grants of this character pending before Congress. A careful review of the whole subject led
me to direct that all such orders be abrogated and the lands restored to market, and instructions
were immediately given to that effect. The applications at the last session contemplated the
construction of more than 5,000 miles of road and grants to the amount of nearly 20,000,000
acres of the public domain. Even admitting the right on the part of Congress to be unquestionable,
is it quite clear that the proposed grants would be productive of good, and not evil? The different
projects are confined for the present to eleven States of this Union and one Territory. The
reasons assigned for the grants show that it is proposed to put the works speedily in process
of construction. When we reflect that since the commencement of the construction of railways
in the United States, stimulated, as they have been, by the large dividends realized from the
earlier works over the great thoroughfares and between the most important points of commerce
and population, encouraged by State legislation, and pressed forward by the amazing energy
of private enterprise, only 17,000 miles have been completed in all the States in a quarter
of a century; when we see the crippled condition of many works commenced and prosecuted upon
what were deemed to be sound principles and safe calculations; when we contemplate the enormous
absorption of capital withdrawn from the ordinary channels of business, the extravagant rates
of interest at this moment paid to continue operations, the bankruptcies, not merely in money
but in character, and the inevitable effect upon finances generally, can it be doubted that
the tendency is to run to excess in this matter? Is it wise to augment this excess by encouraging
hopes of sudden wealth expected to flow from magnificent schemes dependent upon the action
of Congress? Does the spirit which has produced such results need to be stimulated or checked?
Is it not the better rule to leave all these works to private enterprise, regulated and, when
expedient, aided by the cooperation of States? If constructed by private capital the stimulant
and the check go together and furnish a salutary restraint against speculative schemes and
extravagance. But it is manifest that with the most effective guards there is danger of going
too fast and too far. We may well pause before a proposition contemplating a simultaneous movement
for the construction of railroads which in extent will equal, exclusive of the great Pacific
road and all its branches, nearly one-third of the entire length of such works now completed
in the United States, and which can not cost with equipments less than $150,000,000. The dangers
likely to result from combinations of interests of this character can hardly be overestimated.
But independently of these considerations, where is the accurate knowledge, the comprehensive
intelligence, which shall discriminate between the relative claims of these twenty eight proposed
roads in eleven States and one Territory? Where will you begin and where end? If to enable
these companies to execute their proposed works it is necessary that the aid of the General
Government be primarily given, the policy will present a problem so comprehensive in its bearings
and so important to our political and social well-being as to claim in anticipation the severest
analysis. Entertaining these views, I recur with satisfaction to the experience and action
of the last session of Congress as furnishing assurance that the subject will not fail to elicit
a careful reexamination and rigid scrutiny. It was my intention to present on this occasion
some suggestions regarding internal improvements by the General Government, which want of time
at the close of the last session prevented my submitting on the return to the House of Representatives
with objections of the bill entitled "An act making appropriations for the repair, preservation,
and completion of certain public works heretofore commenced under the authority of law;" but
the space in this communication already occupied with other matter of immediate public exigency
constrains me to reserve that subject for a special message, which will be transmitted to the
two Houses of Congress at an early day. The judicial establishment of the United States requires
modification, and certain reforms in the manner of conducting the legal business of the Government
are also much needed; but as I have addressed you upon both of these subjects at length before,
I have only to call your attention to the suggestions then made.

My former recommendations in relation to suitable provision for various objects of deep interest
to the inhabitants of the District of Columbia are renewed. Many of these objects partake largely
of a national character, and are important independently of their relation to the prosperity
of the only considerable organized community in the Union entirely unrepresented in Congress.

I have thus presented suggestions on such subjects as appear to me to be of particular interest
or importance, and therefore most worthy of consideration during the short remaining period
allotted to the labors of the present Congress.

Our forefathers of the thirteen united colonies, in acquiring their independence and in rounding
this Republic of the United States of America, have devolved upon us, their descendants, the
greatest and the most noble trust ever committed to the hands of man, imposing upon all, and
especially such as the public will may have invested for the time being with political functions,
the most sacred obligations. We have to maintain inviolate the great doctrine of the inherent
right of popular self-government; to reconcile the largest liberty of the individual citizen
with complete security of the public order; to render cheerful obedience to the laws of the
land, to unite in enforcing their execution, and to frown indignantly on all combinations to
resist them; to harmonize a sincere and ardent devotion to the institutions of religions faith
with the most universal religious toleration; to preserve the rights of all by causing each
to respect those of the other; to carry forward every social improvement to the uttermost limit
of human perfectibility, by the free action of mind upon mind, not by the obtrusive intervention
of misapplied force; to uphold the integrity and guard the limitations of our organic law;
to preserve sacred from all touch of usurpation, as the very palladium of our political salvation,
the reserved rights and powers of the several States and of the people; to cherish with loyal
fealty and devoted affection this Union, as the only sure foundation on which the hopes of
civil liberty rest; to administer government with vigilant integrity and rigid economy; to
cultivate peace and friendship with foreign nations, and to demand and exact equal justice
from all, but to do wrong to none; to eschew intermeddling with the national policy and the
domestic repose of other governments, and to repel it from our own; never to shrink from war
when the rights and the honor of the country call us to arms, but to cultivate in preference
the arts of peace, seek enlargement of the rights of neutrality, and elevate and liberalize
the intercourse of nations; and by such just and honorable means, and such only, whilst exalting
the condition of the Republic, to assure to it the legitimate influence and the benign authority
of a great example amongst all the powers of Christendom.

Under the solemnity of these convictions the blessing of Almighty God is earnestly invoked
to attend upon your deliberations and upon all the counsels and acts of the Government, to
the end that, with common zeal and common efforts, we may, in humble submission to the divine
will, cooperate for the promotion of the supreme good of these United States.

***

State of the Union Address Franklin Pierce December 31, 1855

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives:

The Constitution of the United States provides that Congress shall assemble annually on the
first Monday of December, and it has been usual for the President to make no communication
of a public character to the Senate and House of Representatives until advised of their readiness
to receive it. I have deferred to this usage until the close of the first month of the session,
but my convictions of duty will not permit me longer to postpone the discharge of the obligation
enjoined by the Constitution upon the President "to give to the Congress information of the
state of the Union and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary
and expedient." It is matter of congratulation that the Republic is tranquilly advancing in
a career of prosperity and peace.

Whilst relations of amity continue to exist between the United States and all foreign powers,
with some of them grave questions are depending which may require the consideration of Congress.

Of such questions, the most important is that which has arisen out of the negotiations with
Great Britain in reference to Central America. By the convention concluded between the two
Governments on the 19th of April, 1850, both parties covenanted that "neither will ever" "occupy,
or fortify, or colonize, or assume or exercise any dominion over Nicaragua. Costa Rica, the
Mosquito Coast, or any part of Central America."

It was the undoubted understanding of the United States in making this treaty that all the
present States of the former Republic of Central America and the entire territory of each would
thenceforth enjoy complete independence, and that both contracting parties engaged equally
and to the same extent, for the present and, for the future, that if either then had any claim
of right in Central America such claim and all occupation or authority under it were unreservedly
relinquished by the stipulations of the convention, and that no dominion was thereafter to
be exercised or assumed in any part of Central America by Great Britain or the United States.

This Government consented to restrictions in regard to a region of country wherein we had specific
and peculiar interests only upon the conviction that the like restrictions were in the same
sense obligatory on Great Britain. But for this understanding of the force and effect of the
convention it would never have been concluded by us.

So clear was this understanding on the part of the United States that in correspondence contemporaneous
with the ratification of the convention it was distinctly expressed that the mutual covenants
of nonoccupation were not intended to apply to the British establishment at the Balize. This
qualification is to be ascribed to the fact that, in virtue of successive treaties with previous
sovereigns of the country, Great Britain had obtained a concession of the right to cut mahogany
or dyewoods at the Balize, but with positive exclusion of all domain or sovereignty; and thus
it confirms the natural construction and understood import of the treaty as to all the rest
of the region to which the stipulations applied.

It, however, became apparent at an early day after entering upon the discharge of my present
functions that Great Britain still continued in the exercise or assertion of large authority
in all that part of Central America commonly called the Mosquito Coast, and covering the entire
length of the State of Nicaragua and a part of Costa Rica; that she regarded the Balize as
her absolute domain and was gradually extending its limits at the expense of the State of Honduras,
and, that she had formally colonized a considerable insular group known as the Bay Islands,
and belonging of right to that State.

All these acts or pretensions of Great Britain, being contrary to the rights of the States
of Central America and to the manifest tenor of her stipulations with the United States as
understood by this Government, have been made the subject of negotiation through the American
minister in London. I transmit herewith the instructions to him on the subject and the correspondence
between him and the British secretary for foreign affairs, by which you will perceive that
the two Governments differ widely and irreconcilably as to the construction of the convention
and its effect on their respective relations to Central America.

Great Britain so construes the convention as to maintain unchanged all her previous pretensions
over the Mosquito Coast and in different parts of Central America. These pretensions as to
the Mosquito Coast are founded on the assumption of political relation between Great Britain
and the remnant of a tribe of Indians on that coast, entered into at a time when the whole
country was a colonial possession of Spain. It can not be successfully controverted that by
the public law of Europe and America no possible act of such Indians or their predecessors
could confer on Great Britain any political rights.

Great Britain does not allege the assent of Spain as the origin of her claims on the Mosquito
Coast. She has, on the contrary, by repeated and successive treaties renounced and relinquished
all pretensions of her own and recognized the full and sovereign rights of Spain in the most
unequivocal terms. Yet these pretensions, so without solid foundation in the beginning and
thus repeatedly abjured, were at a recent period revived by Great Britain against the Central
American States, the legitimate successors to all the ancient jurisdiction of Spain in that
region. They were first applied only to a defined part of the coast of Nicaragua, afterwards
to the whole of its Atlantic coast, and lastly to a part of the coast of Costa Rica, and they
are now reasserted to this extent notwithstanding engagements to the United States.

On the eastern coast of Nicaragua and Costa Rica the interference of Great Britain, though
exerted at one time in the form of military occupation of the port of San Juan del Norte, then
in the peaceful possession of the appropriate authorities of the Central American States, is
now presented by her as the rightful exercise of a protectorship over the Mosquito tribe of
Indians.

But the establishment at the Balize, now reaching far beyond its treaty limits into the State
of Honduras, and that of the Bay Islands, appertaining of right to the same State, are as distinctly
colonial governments as those of Jamaica or Canada, and therefore contrary to the very letter,
as well as the spirit, of the convention with the United States as it was at the time of ratification
and now is understood by this Government.

The interpretation which the British Government thus, in assertion and act, persists in ascribing
to the convention entirely changes its character. While it holds us to all our obligations,
it in a great measure releases Great Britain from those which constituted the consideration
of this Government for entering into the convention. It is impossible, in my judgment, for
the United States to acquiesce in such a construction of the respective relations of the two
Governments to Central America.

To a renewed call by this Government upon Great Britain to abide by and Carry into effect the
stipulations of the convention according to its obvious import by withdrawing from the possession
or colonization of portions of the Central American States of Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa
Rica, the British Government has at length replied, affirming that the operation of the treaty
is prospective only and did not require Great Britain to abandon or contract any possessions
held by her in Central America at the date of its conclusion.

This reply substitutes a partial issue in the place of the general one presented by the United
States. The British Government passes over the question of the rights of Great Britain, real
or supposed, in Central America, and assumes that she had such rights at the date of the treaty
and that those rights comprehended the protectorship of the Mosquito Indians, the extended
jurisdiction and limits of the Balize, and the colony of the Bay Islands, and thereupon proceeds
by implication to infer that if the stipulations of the treaty be merely future in effect Great
Britain may still continue to hold the contested portions of Central America. The United States
can not admit either the inference or the premises. We steadily deny that at the date of the
treaty Great Britain had any possessions there other than the limited and peculiar establishment
at the Balize, and maintain that if she had any they were surrendered by the convention.

This Government, recognizing the obligations of the treaty, has, of course, desired to see
it executed in good faith by both parties, and in the discussion, therefore, has not looked
to rights which we might assert independently of the treaty in consideration of our geographical
position and of other circumstances which create for us relations to the Central American States
different from those of any government of Europe. The British Government, in its last communication,
although well knowing the views of the United States, still declares that it sees no reason
why a conciliatory spirit may not enable the two Governments to overcome all obstacles to a
satisfactory adjustment of the subject.

Assured of the correctness of the construction of the treaty constantly adhered to by this
Government and resolved to insist on the rights of the United States, yet actuated also by
the same desire which is avowed by the British Government, to remove all causes of serious
misunderstanding between two nations associated by so many ties of interest and kindred, it
has appeared to me proper not to consider an amicable solution of the controversy hopeless.

There is, however, reason to apprehend that with Great Britain in the actual occupation of
the disputed territories, and the treaty therefore practically null so far as regards our rights,
this international difficulty can not long remain undetermined without involving in serious
danger the friendly relations which it is the interest as well as the duty of both countries
to cherish and preserve. It will afford me sincere gratification if future efforts shall result
in the success anticipated heretofore with more confidence than the aspect of the case permits
me now to entertain.

One other subject of discussion between the United States and Great Britain has grown out of
the attempt, which the exigencies of the war in which she is engaged with Russia induced her
to make, to draw recruits from the United States.

It is the traditional and settled policy of the United States to maintain impartial neutrality
during the wars which from time to time occur among the great powers of the world. Performing
all the duties of neutrality toward the respective belligerent states, we may reasonably expect
them not to interfere with our lawful enjoyment of its benefits. Notwithstanding the existence
of such hostilities, our citizens retained the individual right to continue all their accustomed
pursuits, by land or by sea, at home or abroad, subject only to such restrictions in this relation
as the laws of war, the usage of nations, or special treaties may impose; and it is our sovereign
right that our territory and jurisdiction shall not be invaded by either of the belligerent
parties for the transit of their armies, the operations of their fleets, the levy of troops
for their service, the fitting out of cruisers by or against either, or any other act or incident
of war. And these undeniable rights of neutrality, individual and national, the United States
will under no circumstances surrender.

In pursuance of this policy, the laws of the United States do not forbid their citizens to
sell to either of the belligerent powers articles contraband of war or take munitions of war
or soldiers on board their private ships for transportation; and although in so doing the individual
citizen exposes his property or person to some of the hazards of war, his acts do not involve
any breach of national neutrality nor of themselves implicate the Government. Thus, during
the progress of the present war in Europe, our citizens have, without national responsibility
therefor, sold gunpowder and arms to all buyers, regardless of the destination of those articles.
Our merchantmen have been, and still continue to be, largely employed by Great Britain and
by France in transporting troops, provisions, and munitions of war to the principal seat of
military operations and in bringing home their sick and wounded soldiers; but such use of our
mercantile marine is not interdicted either by the international or by our municipal law, and
therefore does not compromise our neutral relations with Russia. But our municipal law, in
accordance with the law of nations, peremptorily forbids not only foreigners, but our own citizens,
to fit out within the United States a vessel to commit hostilities against any state with which
the United States are at peace, or to increase the force of any foreign armed vessel intended
for such hostilities against a friendly state.

Whatever concern may have been felt by either of the belligerent powers lest private armed
cruisers or other vessels in the service of one might be fitted out in the ports of this country
to depredate on the property of the other, all such fears have proved to be utterly groundless.
Our citizens have been withheld from any such act or purpose by good faith and by respect for
the law.

While the laws of the Union are thus peremptory in their prohibition of the equipment or armament
of belligerent cruisers in our ports, they provide not less absolutely that no person shall,
within the territory or jurisdiction of the United States, enlist or enter himself, or hire
or retain another person to enlist or enter himself, or to go beyond the limits or jurisdiction
of the United States with intent to be enlisted or entered, in the service of any foreign state,
either as a soldier or as a marine or seaman on board of any vessel of war, letter of marque,
or privateer. And these enactments are also in strict conformity with the law of nations, which
declares that no state has the right to raise troops for land or sea service in another state
without its consent, and that, whether forbidden by the municipal law or not, the very attempt
to do it without such consent is an attack on the national sovereignty.

Such being the public rights and the municipal law of the United States, no solicitude on the
subject was entertained by this Government when, a year since, the British Parliament passed
an act to provide for the enlistment of foreigners in the military service of Great Britain.
Nothing on the face of the act or in its public history indicated that the British Government
proposed to attempt recruitment in the United States, nor did it ever give intimation of such
intention to this Government. It was matter of surprise, therefore, to find subsequently that
the engagement of persons within the United States to proceed to Halifax, in the British Province
of Nova Scotia, and there enlist in the service of Great Britain, was going on extensively,
with little or no disguise. Ordinary legal steps were immediately taken to arrest and punish
parties concerned, and so put an end to acts infringing the municipal law and derogatory to
our sovereignty. Meanwhile suitable representations on the subject were addressed to the British
Government.

Thereupon it became known, by the admission of the British Government itself, that the attempt
to draw recruits from this country originated with it, or at least had its approval and sanction;
but it also appeared that the public agents engaged in it had "stringent instructions" not
to violate the municipal law of the United States.

It is difficult to understand how it should have been supposed that troops could be raised
here by Great Britain without violation of the municipal law. The unmistakable object of the
law was to prevent every such act which if performed must be either in violation of the law
or in studied evasion of it, and in either alternative the act done would be alike injurious
to the sovereignty of the United States. In the meantime the matter acquired additional importance
by the recruitments in the United States not being discontinued, and the disclosure of the
fact that they were prosecuted upon a systematic plan devised by official authority; that recruiting
rendezvous had been opened in our principal cities and depots for the reception of recruits
established on our frontier, and the whole business conducted under the supervision and by
the regular cooperation of British officers, civil and military, some in the North American
Provinces and some in the United States. The complicity of those officers in an undertaking
which could only be accomplished by defying our laws, throwing suspicion over our attitude
of neutrality, and disregarding our territorial rights is conclusively proved by the evidence
elicited on the trial of such of their agents as have been apprehended and convicted. Some
of the officers thus implicated are of high official position, and many of them beyond our
jurisdiction, so that legal proceedings could not reach the source of the mischief.

These considerations, and the fact that the cause of complaint was not a mere casual occurrence,
trot a deliberate design, entered upon with full knowledge of our laws and national policy
and conducted by responsible public functionaries, impelled me to present the case to the British
Government, in order to secure not only a cessation of the, wrong, but its reparation. The
subject is still under discussion, the result of which will be communicated to you in due time.

I repeat the recommendation submitted to the last Congress, that provision be made for the
appointment of a commissioner, in connection with Great Britain, to survey and establish the
boundary line which divides the Territory of Washington from the contiguous British possessions.
By reason of the extent and importance of the country in dispute, there has been imminent danger
of collision between the subjects of Great Britain and the citizens of the United States, including
their respective authorities, in that quarter. The prospect of a speedy arrangement has contributed
hitherto to induce on both sides forbearance to assert by force what each claims as a right.
Continuance of delay on the part of the two Governments to act in the matter will increase
the dangers and difficulties of the controversy. I have reason to believe that a cession of
the rights of both companies to the United States, which would be the readiest means of terminating
all questions, can be obtained on reasonable terms, and with a view to this end I present the
subject to the attention of Congress.

The colony of Newfoundland, having enacted the laws required by the treaty of the 5th of June,
1854, is now placed on the same footing in respect to commercial intercourse with the United
States as the other British North American Provinces.

The commission which that treaty contemplated, for determining the rights of fishery in rivers
and mouths of rivers on the coasts of the United States and the British North American Provinces,
has been organized, and has commenced its labors, to complete which there are needed further
appropriations for the service of another season.

In pursuance of the authority conferred by a resolution of the Senate of the United States
passed on the 3d of March last, notice was given to Denmark on the 14th day of April of the
intention of this Government to avail itself of the stipulation of the subsisting convention
of friendship, commerce, and navigation between that Kingdom and the United States whereby
either party might after ten years terminate the same at the expiration of one year from the
date of notice for that purpose.

The considerations which led me to call the attention of Congress to that convention and induced
the Senate to adopt the resolution referred to still continue in full force. The convention
contains an article which, although it does not directly engage the United States to submit
to the imposition of tolls on the vessels and cargoes of Americans passing into or from the
Baltic Sea during the continuance of the treaty, yet may by possibility be construed as implying
such submission. The exaction of those tolls not being justified by any principle of international
law, it became the right and duty of the United States to relieve themselves from the implication
of engagement on the subject, so as to be perfectly free to act in the premises in such way
as their public interests and honor shall demand.

I remain of the opinion that the United States ought not to submit to the payment of the Sound
dues, not so much because of their amount, which is a secondary matter, but because it is in
effect the recognition of the right of Denmark to treat one of the great maritime highways
of nations as a close sea, and prevent the navigation of it as a privilege, for which tribute
may be imposed upon those who have occasion to use it.

This Government on a former occasion, not unlike the present, signalized its determination
to maintain the freedom of the seas and of the great natural channels of navigation. The Barbary
States had for a long time coerced the payment of tribute from all nations whose ships frequented
the Mediterranean. To the last demand of such payment made by them the United States, although
suffering less by their depredations than many other nations, returned the explicit answer
that we preferred war to tribute, and thus opened the way to the relief of the commerce of
the world from an ignominious tax, so long submitted to by the more powerful nations of Europe.

If the manner of payment of the Sound dues differ from that of the tribute formerly conceded
to the Barbary States, still their exaction by Denmark has no better foundation in right. Each
was in its origin nothing but a tax on a common natural right, extorted by those who were at
that time able to obstruct the free and secure enjoyment of it, but who no longer possess that
power.

Denmark, while resisting our assertion of the freedom of the Baltic Sound and Belts, has indicated
a readiness to make some new arrangement on the subject, and has invited the governments interested,
including the United States, to be represented in a convention to assemble for the purpose
of receiving and considering a proposition which she intends to submit for the capitalization
of the Sound dues and the distribution of the sum to be paid as commutation among the governments
according to the respective proportions of their maritime commerce to and from the Baltic.
I have declined, in behalf of the United States, to accept this invitation, for the most cogent
reasons. One is that Denmark does not offer to submit to the convention the question of her
right to levy the Sound dues. The second is that if the convention were allowed to take cognizance
of that particular question, still it would not be competent to deal with the great international
principle involved, which affects the right in other cases of navigation and commercial freedom,
as well as that of access to the Baltic. Above all, by the express terms of the proposition
it is contemplated that the consideration of the Sound dues shall be commingled with and made
subordinate to a matter wholly extraneous--the balance of power among the Governments of Europe.

While, however, rejecting this proposition and insisting on the right of free transit into
and from the Baltic, I have expressed to Denmark a willingness on the part of the United States
to share liberally with other powers in compensating her for any advantages which commerce
shall hereafter derive from expenditures made by her for the improvement and safety of the
navigation of the Sound or Belts.

I lay before you herewith sundry documents on the subject, in which my views are more fully
disclosed. Should no satisfactory arrangement be soon concluded, I shall again call your attention
to the subject, with recommendation of such measures as may appear to be required in order
to assert and secure the rights of the United States, so far as they are affected by the pretensions
of Denmark.

I announce with much gratification that since the adjournment of the last Congress the question
then existing between this Government and that of France respecting the French consul at San
Francisco has been satisfactorily determined, and that the relations of the two Governments
continue to be of the most friendly nature.

A question, also, which has been pending for several years between the United States and the
Kingdom of Greece, growing out of the sequestration by public authorities of that country of
property belonging to the present American consul at Athens, and which had been the subject
of very earnest discussion heretofore, has recently been settled to the satisfaction of the
party interested and of both Governments.

With Spain peaceful relations are still maintained, and some progress has been made in securing
the redress of wrongs complained of by this Government. Spain has not only disavowed and disapproved
the conduct of the officers who illegally seized and detained the steamer Black Warrior at
Havana, but has also paid the sum claimed as indemnity for the loss thereby inflicted on citizens
of the United States.

In consequence of a destructive hurricane which visited Cuba in 1844, the supreme authority
of that island issued a decree permitting the importation for the period of six months of certain
building materials and provisions free of duty, but revoked it when about half the period only
had elapsed, to the injury of citizens of the United States who had proceeded to act on the
faith of that decree. The Spanish Government refused indemnification to the parties aggrieved
until recently, when it was assented to, payment being promised to be made so soon as the amount
due can be ascertained.

Satisfaction claimed for the arrest and search of the steamer El Dorado has not yet been accorded,
but there is reason to believe that it will be; and that case, with others, continues to be
urged on the attention of the Spanish Government. I do not abandon the hope of concluding with
Spain some general arrangement which, if it do not wholly prevent the recurrence of difficulties
in Cuba, will render them less frequent, and, whenever they shall occur, facilitate their more
speedy settlement.

The interposition of this Government has been invoked by many of its citizens on account of
injuries done to their persons and property for which the Mexican Republic is responsible.
The unhappy situation of that country for some time past has not allowed its Government to
give due consideration to claims of private reparation, and has appeared to call for and justify
some forbearance in such matters on the part of this Government. But if the revolutionary movements
which have lately occurred in that Republic end in the organization of a stable government,
urgent appeals to its justice will then be made, and, it may be hoped, with success, for the
redress of all complaints of our citizens.

In regard to the American Republics, which from their proximity and other considerations have
peculiar relations to this Government, while it has been my constant aim strictly to observe
all the obligations of political friendship and of good neighborhood, obstacles to this have
arisen in some of them from their own insufficient power to cheek lawless irruptions, which
in effect throws most of the task on the United States. Thus it is that the distracted internal
condition of the State of Nicaragua has made it incumbent on me to appeal to the good faith
of our citizens to abstain from unlawful intervention in its affairs and to adopt preventive
measures to the same end, which on a similar occasion had the best results in reassuring the
peace of the Mexican States of Sonora and Lower California.

Since the last session of Congress a treaty of amity, commerce, and navigation and for the
surrender of fugitive criminals with the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies; a treaty of friendship,
commerce, and navigation with Nicaragua, and a convention of commercial reciprocity with the
Hawaiian Kingdom have been negotiated. The latter Kingdom and the State of Nicaragua have also
acceded to a declaration recognizing as international rights the principles contained in the
convention between the United States and Russia of July 22, 1854. These treaties and conventions
will be laid before the Senate for ratification.

The statements made in my last annual message respecting the anticipated receipts and expenditures
of the Treasury have been substantially verified.

The balance in the Treasury at the beginning of the present fiscal year, July 1, 1855, was
$18,931,976; the receipts for the first quarter and the estimated receipts for the remaining
three quarters amount together to $67,918,734; thus affording in all, as the available resources
of the current fiscal year, the sum of $86,856,710.

If to the actual expenditures of the first quarter of the current fiscal year be added the
probable expenditures for the remaining three quarters, as estimated by the Secretary of the
Treasury, the sum total will be $71,226,846, thereby leaving an estimated balance in the Treasury
on July 1, 1856, of $15,623,863.41.

In the above-estimated expenditures of the present fiscal year are included $3,000,000 to meet
the last installment of the ten millions provided for in the late treaty with Mexico and $7,750,000
appropriated on account of the debt due to Texas, which two sums make an aggregate amount of
$10,750,000 and reduce the expenditures, actual or estimated, for ordinary objects of the year
to the sum of $60,476,000.

The amount of the public debt at the commencement of the present fiscal year was $40,583,631,
and, deduction being made of subsequent payments, the whole public debt of the Federal Government
remaining at this time is less than $40,000,000. The remnant of certain other Government stocks,
amounting to $243,000, referred to in my last message as outstanding, has since been paid.

I am fully persuaded that it would be difficult to devise a system superior to that by which
the fiscal business of the Government is now conducted. Notwithstanding the great number of
public agents of collection and disbursement, it is believed that the checks and guards provided,
including the requirement of monthly returns, render it scarcely possible for any considerable
fraud on the part of those agents or neglect involving hazard of serious public loss to escape
detection. I renew, however, the recommendation heretofore made by me of the enactment of a
law declaring it felony on the part of public officers to insert false entries in their books
of record or account or to make false returns, and also requiring them on the termination of
their service to deliver to their successors all books, records, and other objects of a public
nature in their custody.

Derived, as our public revenue is, in chief part from duties on imports, its magnitude affords
gratifying evidence of the prosperity, not only of our commerce, but of the other great interests
upon which that depends. It is now so generally conceded that the purpose of revenue alone
can justify the imposition of duties on imports that in readjusting the impost tables and schedules,
which unquestionably require essential modifications, a departure from the principles of the
present tariff is not anticipated.

